28 THE NATURAL HISTORY perhaps to give more room for the antrum Highmorianum. On this sup- position the fangs must be made accordingly, i. e. so that they shall not be pushed into that cavity : now, by their diverging they inclose, as it were, the bottom of the antrum, and do not push against its middle, which is the weakest part; and the points of three diverging fangs will make a greater resistance (or not be so easily pushed in) than if they were placed parallel. If there had been only two, as in the lower jaw, they must have been placed opposite to the thinnest part of the antrum ; and three points placed in any direction but a diverging one would have had here much the same effect as two; and as the force applied is en- deavouring to depress the tooth, and push it inwards, the innermost fang diverges most, and is supported by the inner wall of the antrum. That all this weakness in the upper jaw is for the increase of the antrum is probable, because all the teeth in the upper jaw are a good deal similar to those in the lower, excepting those that are opposite to the maxillary sinus ; and here they differ principally in the fangs, without any other apparent reason : and what confirms this is, that the dentes sapientiae in both jaws are more alike than the other grinders,—for this reason, as I apprehend, because the dens sapientiae in the upper jaw does not interfere so much with the maxillary sinus. What makes it still more probable that the two first superior grinders have three fangs on account of the maxillary sinus is, that the two grinders on each side of the upper jaw, in the child, have three fangs, and we find them underneath the antrum ; but those that succeed them have only one fang, as in the lower jaw : but by that timeThe antrum has passed further back, or rather the arch of the jaw has projected, or shot forwards, as it were, from under the antrum, so that the alveolar processes that were under it at one age are got before it in another. That the edge of every fang is turned towards the circumference of the jaw, in order to counteract the acting power, we shall see when we con- sider the motion of the jaw and the use of the teeth. Of the Articulation of the Teeth. The fangs of the teeth are fixed in the gum and alveolar processes by that species of articulation called gomphosis, which in some measure resembles a nail driven into a piece of wood*. They are not, however, firmly united with the processes, for every tooth has some degree of motion ; and in heads which have been boiled * See Plate I. for the sockets; and PI. III. f. 4, for the teeth themselves in their sockets.