189 OF GONORRIICEA. that it may, for I have known many women who have got rid of a vio- lent gonorrhoea without having used any means to cure it; and indeed the great variety of methods of cure employed in such cases, all of which cannot possibly do good, though the patients get well, seems to confirm this opinion. One circumstance, which appears as curious as any, is the seeming continuance of the disease in the vagina for years ; at least we have reason to believe this, as far as the testimony of patients can be relied on ; and this long continuance of it, without wearing itself out as it does sometimes in men, is probably owing to its being less violent in the vagina*. * A case is here added : “ The following account of a lady having all the symptoms of gonorrhoea immedi- ately after connexion, shows how early in some cases the disease is produced ; it was sent to me from Bath for my opinion upon it, drawn up by her medical attendant. “ A lady of a delicate habit of body, great sensibility of mind, and extreme irritabi- lity of the whole nervous system, in general had enjoyed good health until her present illness, which began in the following manner. The morning after her marriage she complained of great soreness and swelling of the pudenda, attended with a good deal of pain, and difficulty in making water ; this was considered as the natural consequence of her connexion, and she continued her journey in a post-chaise, though in much pain, the whole day. The following morning her complaints were much increased, and a considerable discharge came on from the parts. In this situation she came to Bath a few days after, when I was desired to see her. I found her in an agony of distress, her husband having informed her, that, from circumstances attending himself, he was apprehensive her complaints might prove venereal. Upon questioning him, I found that for some months he had had a running from the urethra attended with heat of urine; that he had been under the care of a surgeon in the country, who had assured him his disease was not venereal; that, confiding in this assurance, he had married, not doubting that he was perfectly well, except a trifling gleet which remained still: he further stated, that in having connexion with his wife, from the natural tightness of the parts he had not been able to penetrate ; that in the attempt she complained of much pain, and some blood was discharged: upon examining his shirt, some discharge was observed upon it, and he still was troubled with heat of urine. I was at first inclined to hope that (as women are not so easily infected with the venereal poison as men) all these complaints might be the consequences of a first connexion, followed by a long and rapid journey in a post-chaise; I therefore ordered an opening mixture, and desired the parts might be fomented with a decoction of poppy-heads in milk and water, and a soft poultice of bread and milk applied. Finding no advantage from the use of these means, I examined the state of the parts affected, and found there was a considerable discharge of matter, principally from the urethra, the orifice of which was much swelled and inflamed, as well as the ducts of the glands on each side the urethra: there did not appear to be any discharge from the vagina; the hymen still appeared unbroken, and very firm and fleshy; the lacunae from Cowper’s glands on each side were very much inflamed; and there was a hard tumour on one side of the hymen, which afterwards sup- purated. There was no appearance of disease anywhere about the labia or nymphae. It was treated as venereal, and she went through a course of mercury, which was per- sisted in for some time: the abscess above mentioned burst; her mouth grew a little tender; her complaints were so much mended, that there was no doubt of a speedy and happy termination of her disorder, when she was seized with a most violent dial-