101 OF THE TEETH. there are more fangs than one, yet these fangs will as readily go into their respective sockets as one fang would ; and most probably when the tooth has been beat out, the sockets are enlarged by their giving way. However, the grinders are not so subject to such accidents as the fore teeth, both from their situation and from their firmness in the sockets. Where a tooth has been only loosened, or shoved out in part, the pa- tient must not hesitate, but must replace it immediately. As a proof of the success to be expected from replacing teeth, I will relate the following case. A gentleman had his first bicuspis knocked out, and the second loosened. The first was driven quite into his mouth, and he spit it out upon the ground, but immediately picked it up and put it into his pocket. Some hours afterwards he called upon me, mentioned the ac- cident, and showed me the tooth. Upon examining his mouth, I found the second bicuspis very loose, but pretty much in its place. The tooth which had been knocked out was not quite dry, but very dirty, having dropped on the ground, and having been some time in his pocket. I immediately put it into warm water, let it stay there to soften, washed it as clean as possible, and then replaced it, first having introduced a probe into the socket to break down the coagulated blood which filled it. I then tied these two teeth to the first grinder, and the cuspidatus with silk, which was kept on some days, and then removed. After a month they were as fast as any teeth in the head, and if it were not for the remembrance of the circumstances above related, the gentleman would not be sensible that his teeth had met with any accident. Four years have now passed since it happened. Of transplanting a dead Tooth. The insertion of a dead tooth has been recommended, and I have known them continue for many years. If this always succeeded as well as the living I would give it the preference, because we are much more certain of matching them, as a much greater variety of dead teeth can be procured than of living ones. But they do not always retain their colour, but are susceptible of stain. However, I have known them last for years without any alteration; and some have appeared rather to ac- quire a transparency, which dead teeth in general have not.