DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 485 mercury to be given immediately. I was afterwards desired to see her, and advised that mercury should not be had recourse to, that we might ascertain the nature of the case ; for if she took mercury and got well, it would be adding one more to the number of the supposed venereal cases arising from such a cause. I recommended drawing the tooth, that we might see what effects would be produced by the removal of the first cause. The tooth was drawn, and the gum healed up as fast as any common ulcer, and has ever since continued well. This case requires no comment. I may, however, be allowed to ob- serve, that if the lady had gone through a course of mercury, she would have, in all probability, also got well; for the tooth, in the time neces- sary for completing the course of mercury, would have dropped out; and if this had really happened, we need not hesitate in affirming that it would have been considered as venereal. The fifth case was that of a young lady, eighteen years of age, who had one of the incisores transplanted, which fastened very well; but six or seven weeks after the operation, an ulceration of the gum took place, the tooth was immediately ordered to be removed, and the bark was given without any other medicine, and she got well in a few weeks. The sixth case was that of a gentleman, aged twenty-three, a native of one of the West India islands, who had the two front incisors trans- planted ; and about the same time after the operation, as in the former cases, an ulceration of the gums took place, which increased to a very great degree, and the edges of the gum sloughed off. An eminent sur- geon was consulted, who ordered the bark; and the patient, without taking any other medicine, got well, in nearly the same time as the ladies in cases four and five, who had the teeth taken out. The gums reco- vered themselves perfectly, but were considerably shorter. If we take some of the above cases, and consider them as they at first appeared, we shall almost pronounce them to have been venereal. If we take the others, we shall pronounce them absolutely not to be vene- real. And if we consider every circumstance relating to those probably venereal, we shall, as far as reasoning goes, conclude that they were not venereal. The first case that appeared at the time to be venereal is the second of those before related; but, as I did not attend the lady through the whole of the cure, I can say less upon it. She certainly had the symptoms recur oftener than they do in venereal cases in com- mon, where the disease is attended with no ambiguity, and took more than the usual quantity of mercury. There is therefore in this case something not clearly understood, because it does not exactly agree with venereal cases in general in all its parts. The fourth case was similar in its recurring, and in the quantity of mercury that appeared to be necessary to remove the symptoms.