OF THE VENEREAL POISON. 150 ter, but only a common inflammation and suppuration; and that the matter capable of producing these effects acts as a ferment upon the new-formed matter, rendering it venereal as soon, or nearly as soon, as it is formed; and as there is a succession of secretions, there im- mediately follows a succession of fermentations. Now let us see how far this idea agrees with all the variety of phenomena attending the disease. First, it may be asked, what becomes of this ferment in many cases where the suppuration does not come on for some weeks after the irritation and inflammation have taken place ? In such cases we can hardly suppose the original venereal matter to remain, and to act as a ferment. Secondly, when there is a cessation of the discharge, and no matter formed, which sometimes happens for a considerable time, and yet all the symptoms recur, what is it that produces this fermentation a second time ? Nothing can, but a new application of fresh venereal matter. When, for example, the irritation is translated to the testicle, and the discharge is totally stopped, as often happens, what becomes of the virus; and how is a new virus formed when the irritation falls back upon the urethra ? Thirdly, if the poisonous quality were produced by fermentation taking place in the matter already formed, it would not be an easy matter to account for the symptoms ever ceasing, for, accord- ing to my idea of a ferment, it would never cease to act if new matter were continually added ; nor could anything possibly check it but a substance immediately applied to the part, which could stop or prevent the fermentation in the new matter. But as the venereal inflammation in this species of the disease is not kept up beyond a certain time, the production of the poison cannot depend on fermentation. Fourthly, if it depended on a fermentation in the secreted matter, all venereal cases would be alike, nor would one be worse than another, except from a greater or smaller number of fermenting places. Upon this supposition also all cases would be equally easy of cure, for the fermentation would be equally strong in a slight case as in a bad one. It can only be fer- mentation in the matter after it has left the vessels. When the venereal matter has been applied to a sore, so as to irri- tate, it produces a venereal irritation and inflammation. But even this does not always take place, for the common matter from the sore may remove the venereal matter applied, before it can affect the sore so as to produce the venereal inflammation and suppuration there. This ex- periment I have made several times, and have only once produced the venereal inflammation. But if the venereal matter were capable of acting as a ferment, then it would in all cases produce venereal matter without altering the nature of the sore. The effects produced by venereal poison appear to me to arise from