OF GONORRHCEA. 17 6 §. B. Of the Chordee. The chordee appears to be inflammatory in some cases, and spasmodic in others. We shall treat first of the inflammatory chordee. When the inflammation is not confined merely to the surface of the urethra and its glands, but goes deeper and affects the reticular mem- brane, it produces in it an extravasation of coagulable lymph, as in the adhesive inflammation, which uniting the cells together, destroys the power of distention of the corpus spongiosum urethrae, and makes it unequal in this respect to the corpora cavernosa penis, and therefore a curvature takes place in the time of erection, which is called a chordee. The curvature is generally in the lower part of the penis, arising from the cells of the corpus spongiosum urethrae having their sides united by adhesions*. Besides this effect of inflammation, when the chordee is violent, the inner membrane is, I suppose, so much upon the stretch, as to be in some degree torn, which frequently causes a profuse bleeding from the urethra, that often relieves the patient, and even sometimes proves the cure. As chordee arises from a greater degree of inflamma- tion than common, it is an effect which may, and often does, remain when all infection is gone, being merely a consequence of the adhesive inflammation. §. 9. Of the Manner in which the Inflammation attacks the Urethra. In what manner the disease extends itself to the urethra is a question not yet absolutely determined. I suspect that it is communicated or creeps along from the glans to the urethra, or at least from the begin- ning or lips of the urethra to its inner surface ; because it is impossible to conceive that any of the venereal matter from the woman can get into the canal during coition, although the contrary is commonly as- serted. It is impossible, at least, that it can get so far as the common seat of the disease, or into those parts of the urethra where it very often exists, that is, through the whole length of the canal. The following case amounts almost to a proof of this opinion. A gentleman, on whose veracity I have an entire confidence, when in Germany, where he had not lain with a woman for many weeks, sat in a necessary-house some time. Upon arising, he found something that seemed to give the glans penis a little sharp pull, and he found a small * The preceding sentence omitted.—Home.