262 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. the necessary precautions. I provided myself with catheters and bou- gies of different sizes; and to be as much upon my guard as possible, I introduced a bougie of a small size first, and found a full stop about the bulbous part of the urethra; I then took a smaller, which passed, but with difficulty. I afterwards passed a small catheter on to the stricture, where it stopped; but as it was absolutely necessary that the water should be drawn off, I used more force than I otherwise should have done : it went on, but with difficulty, and I was not certain whether it was in the natural passage or was making a new one. When the bou- gie had gone so far as certainly (if in the right passage,) to have entered the bladder, I found that no water came; I therefore pressed the lowTer part of the belly, and the water immediately came out through the ca- theter, whence it appeared that the bladder had lost its power of con- traction. The water was drawn off three times every day, that is, every eight hours, to give as much ease to the bladder as possible ; but still it wras necessary to press the belly, to assist the discharge of the urine; and it was upwards of a fortnight before the bladder began to recover its power of contracting. The swelling in the perinseum still continued, advancing along the body of the penis, and spreading a little on the pubes ; it seemed to extend along the projecting part of the penis, and at last filled the whole cellular membrane of the prepuce, but did not in the least affect the scrotum. This swelling appeared to be owing to the urine having found its way into the cellular membrane of the peri- nseum, and from thence proceeding along the side of the penis. When the prepuce became much loaded with water, a very considerable phimosis took place, which made the introduction of the catheter into the orifice of the urethra very uncertain ; so much did the swelled prepuce project over the glans. I was obliged to squeeze the water back into the body of the penis, and introduce a finger, and feel for the glans, and on this finger introduce the catheter; and in a few minutes I generally found the orifice. The nature of the case was now plain ; for ulceration had taken place beyond the stricture, and the swelling had arisen from the urine having insinuated itself into the cellular membrane of the perinseum; and as the urine escaped from the urethra, it was pushed forwards where the cellular membrane was loosest, till it got to the very end of the prepuce as before mentioned. By this time he was become extremely low and irritable; his pulse quick and small; his tongue brown, dry, and contracted ; his appetite gone, with great drought, bad sleep, and the first stages of a delirium coming on. This discovery of the true state of the case gave a change to the mode of treatment. Instead of evacuations to lessen inflamma-