443 OF THE LUES VENEREA. As corrosive sublimate contains an acid, and as you must be guided by the effects of the acid on the bowels, the quantity of mercury you can give in this form is necessarily smaller than in the other prepara- tions. Ward’s drop, containing less acid, can be given in larger quan- tity, and is more efficacious on that account. Perhaps any of these pre- parations united with a scruple of gum guaiacum may have more effect than when given alone, since guaiacum is found to have considerable effects on the venereal disease*. This practice, continued for two months, will in general cure a com- mon lues venerea; but here it is not meant that any time should be specified. After all the symptoms of the disease have disappeared, this course should be continued at least a fortnight longer; but if the sym- ptoms disappear very suddenly, as they often do, perhaps within eight or ten days, probably from the medicine going off by those surfaces where the disease appears, the medicine should be continued three weeks, or perhaps a month, longer, and the dose increased. In such cases the visible local effects appear to be cured, while a venereal dis- position remains in the parts. Various are the preparations of mercury recommended for internal use, while practitioners have generally been satisfied with but one for external application. Every practitioner finds some one of the prepa- rations answering better to appearance in some one case than another, which casts the balance in favour of that medicine in his mind ; or others, finding the bad effects of a particular preparation at one time, have ge- nerally condemned that preparation ; not to mention that deceit is often practised in the cure of this disease. One would naturally suppose that the simplest preparation is the best, that which is easiest dissolved in the animal juices, does least mischief to the stomach or general health, and is least disturbed or hindered in its operations; for we can hardly suppose that any substance joined with mercury, which alters either its chemical or mechanical properties out of the body, can add to its power in the body, except a substance which had a similar power when act- ing alone. The preference generally given to the ointment shows this ; and if we could find a preparation still more simple than the ointment, that preparation should be used in preference to the crude mercury. * See pages 456, 457. tioned above, and if the course can be continued for the usual period, without inter- ruption from its effects on the bowels, or the mouth, it may be doubted whether relapses are more frequent than after the exhibition of other preparations of mercury.]