7 OF THE HUMAN TEETH. parts from being hurt by the friction ; a circumstance necessary to be guarded against where there is so much motion. Accordingly I find this cartilage in the different tribes of carnivorous animals, where there is no eminence and cavity, nor other apparatus for grinding, and where the motion is of the true ginglymus kind only. In the lower jaw, as in all the joints of the body, when the motion is carried to its greatest extent, in any direction, the muscles and liga- ments are strained and the person made uneasy. The state, therefore, into which every joint most naturally falls, especially when we are asleep, is nearly in the middle state between the extremes of motion; by which means all the muscles and ligaments are equally relaxed. Thence it is that commonly and naturally the teeth of the two jaws are not in con- tact, nor are the condyles of the lower jaw so far back in the temporal cavities as they can go. Of the Muscles of the Lower Jaw. Having described the figure, articulation, motion, and use of the lower jaw, it will be necessary in the next place to give some account of the muscles that are the causes of its motion. There are five pairs of muscles, each of them capable of producing various motions, according to the situation of the lower jaw, whether they act singly or in conjunction with others. Two or more of them may be so situated as to be capable of moving the jaw in the same direc- tion ; but every motion is produced by the action of more than one muscle at a time. Thus, if the jaw be depressed, and brought to one side, either the masseter, temporal, or pterygoideus internus of the opposite side will not only raise the jaw but bring it to its middle state. It will be necessary in the description of each muscle to give its use in the different situations of the jaw, by which means, after they are all described, their compound actions will be better understood. I shall first describe those which raise the jaw; then those which give it the lateral motion ; and lastly, those which depress it; proceeding in the order in which they present themselves in dissection. The most superficial is the masseter: it is situated upon the poste- rior and lower part of the face, between the cheek-bone and angle of the lower jaw, directly before the lower part of the ear. It is a thick, short, complex muscle, and a little flattened : it appears to have two distinct origins, an anterior and outer and a posterior and inner; but that is owing only to its outer edge at its origin being slit, or double, and the fibres of these two edges having a different course, decussating each