133 INTRODUCTION. body may have been contaminated by the venereal poison, and the smallpox may take place, and both diseases may appear together, but not in the same parts. If both were consequences of fever, and each followed the fever nearly about the same time, it would be impossible for each to have its respective eruption, even in different parts, at the same time ; two fevers, antecedent to these different diseases, cannot be co-existent. From this principle I think I may fairly put the following queries. Does not the failure of inoculation, and the power of resisting many infections, sometimes arise from the person’s having at the same time some other disease, and therefore being incapable of a new action ? Does not the great difference in the time, from the application of the cause to the appearance of the effect, in many cases, depend upon the same principle ? It has been sometimes observed that the puncture in the arm has shown no sign of inflammation in fourteen days after the application of the variolous poison. Has there not been another disease in the constitution at the time of inoculation ? Does not the cure of some diseases depend upon the same principle ? The suspension or cure of a gonorrhoea by a fever may be an instance of this. Let me illustrate this principle still further, by one of many cases which have come under my own observation. On Thursday, March 16, 1775, I inoculated a gentleman’s child, in whose arms it was observed I made large punctures. On the Sunday following he appeared to have received the infection, a small inflammation or redness appearing round each puncture, and a small tumour above the surface of the skin having been observed. On the 20th and the 21st the child was feverish, but I declared that the fever was not variolous, as the inflammation had not at all ad- vanced since the 19th. On the 22nd a considerable eruption appeared, which was evidently the measles : upon this the sores on the arms ap- peared to go back, becoming less inflamed. On the 23rd he was very full of the measles, the punctures on the arms being in the same state as on the preceding day. On the 25th the measles began to disappear. On the 26th and 27th the punctures began again to look a little red. On the 29th the inflammation increased, and there was a little matter formed. On the 30th he was seized with fever. The smallpox ap- peared at the regular time, went through its usual course, and termi- nated favourably. In like manner, it may be observed that the vene- real disease makes its appearance at different periods after infection. Is not this explicable on the same principle ?