OF THE DISEASES 94 While this position of the jaw is only in a small degree, so that the edges of the under teeth can be by the patient brought behind those of the upper, it is in his own power to increase this till the whole be com- pleted, that is, till the grinders meet; and it is not necessary to go further. This is done by frequently bringing the lower jaw as far back as he can, and then squeezing the teeth as close together as pos- sible. But when it is not in the person’s power to bring the lower jaw so far back as to allow the edges of its fore teeth to come behind those of the upper, artificial means are necessary. The best of these means is an instrument of silver, with a socket or groove shaped to the fore teeth of the lower jaw to receive them, so as to become fast to them, and sloped off as it rises to its upper edge, so as to rise behind the fore teeth in the upper jaw in such a manner that, upon shutting the mouth, the teeth of the upper jaw may catch the anterior part of the slanting surface, and be pushed forward with the power of the inclined plane. The patient who wears such an instru- ment must frequently shut his mouth with this view. These need not be continued longer than till the edges of the lower teeth can be got behind those of the upper, for it is then within the power of the patient, as in the first-stated case. CHAPTER IX. OF DRAWING THE TEETH. The extraction of teeth is in some cases an operation of considerable delicacy, and in others no operation is less difficult. As this is often not thought of till an inflammation has come on, it becomes an object of consideration whether it be proper to remove the tooth while that inflammation continues, or to wait till it has subsided. I am apt to believe it is better to wait even till the parts have perfectly recovered themselves, because the state of irritation renders them more susceptible of pain. The contrary practice might also appear reason- able, for by removing the tooth it might be imagined that we should remove the cause; but when the inflammation has once begun, the effect will go on independently of the cause; and to draw the tooth,