343 OF CHANCRE. friction to be left off, to see what course the ulcers would take: the slough came out and left a foul sore. I waited still longer, and in a day or two it became clean and healed up. The first-mentioned case I did not see to an end; but I learned that the patient continued the mercury and got well, and the ulcer in the throat was supposed to be venereal; but, from the circumstances of the other case, I now very much doubt of that. It is more than probable that these effects of mercury only take place in constitutions that have a tendency to such complaints in the throat. I know this to be the case with the last-mentioned gentleman; and it is also probable that there may be an increased disposition at the time, either in consequence of the mercury or some accidental cause. I have reason to suppose that mercury in some degree increases this disposition, which I shall further take notice of when treating of the cure of the lues venerea. In the cure of chancres I have sometimes seen, when the original chancre has been doing well and probably nearly cured, that new ones have broken out upon the prepuce, near to the first, and have put on all the appearance of a chancre ; but such I have always treated as not venereal. They may be similar to some consequences of chancres, which will be taken notice of hereafter. As swellings of the absorbent glands take place in consequence of other absorptions besides that of poisons, we should be careful in all cases to ascertain the cause, as has been already described; and here it may not be improper still to observe further, that in the cure of chancres, swellings of the glands shall arise, even when the constitution is loaded with mercury sufficient for the cure of the sores ; but then the mercury has been thrown into the constitution by the lower extremity, and therefore there is great room for suspicion that such swellings are not venereal, but arise from the mercury; for a real bubo, from absorption of venereal matter, if not come to suppuration, will give way to mercury rubbed into the leg and thigh. In such cases I have always desisted from giving the mercury in this way when I could give it by the mouth.