OF BUBO. 370 specific disposition of the inflammation; and we know that this disease is often attended with other kinds of inflammation besides the venereal. Sometimes the common inflammation is carried to a great height; at other times the inflammation is erysipelatous, and, I suspect, often scro- fulous. We must therefore have recourse to other methods. Where the inflammation rises very high, bleeding, purging, and fo- menting are generally recommended. These will certainly lessen the active power of the vessels, and render the inflammation more languid; but they can never lessen the specific effects of this poison, which were the first cause, and are still in some degree the support of the inflam- mation. Their effects are only secondary, and if they reduce the in- flammation within the bounds of the specific, it is all the service they can perform. If the inflammation be of the erysipelatous kind, perhaps bark is the best medicine that can be given; or if it be suspected to be scrofulous, hemlock, and poultices made with sea-water, may be of ser- vice. Vomits have been of service in resolving buboes, even after matter has been formed in them, and after they have been nearly ready to burst; this acts upon the principle of one irritation destroying another; and sickness and the act of vomiting perhaps give a disposition for absorp- tion. A remarkable instance of this kind happened in an officer who had a bubo at Lisbon. It came to fair suppuration, and was almost ready to burst. The skin was thin and inflamed, and a plain fluctuation felt. I intended to open it, but as he was going on board a ship for England on the day following, I thought it better to defer it. When he went on board he set sail immediately, and the wind blew so very hard that nothing could be done for some days, all which time he was very sick, and vomited a good deal; when the sickness went off he found the bubo had disappeared, and it never afterwards appeared. When he came to England he went through a regular course of mercury. ยง. 1. Of Resolution of the Inflammation of the Absorbents on the Penis. The surface beyond the seat of the disease in this case, that is, all that part of the penis before the bubo, is not large enough to take in a quantity of mercury sufficient to prevent the effects of absorption, and therefore recourse is to be had to other means; yet this application should by no means be neglected, and this surface, small as it is, should be constantly covered with mercurial ointment, which will assist in the cure of the local disease. It may be disputed whether any medicine