OF THE LUES VENEREA. 390 sired that Mr. Pott might see her along with me ; and it was the opinion of us both that the sores on the nipple and around it were not venereal; but it was alleged, that as she had taken mercury, their not having a venereal appearance now was owing to that cause. The bark was given, as also the sarsaparilla, but the sores did not heal, nor did they become worse ; nor was the mouth better by leaving off the mercury. I ordered the hemlock, but that appeared to have no effect. In the mean time eruptions broke out on the skin. The skin of the hands and fingers peeled off; the nails of both fingers and toes separated, and sores formed about their roots, which were all supposed (by many) to be venereal. But some of them appearing while the constitution was full of mercury, and others disappearing without any further use of that medicine, I judged that they were not venereal. We suspected that her mode of living was such as contributed greatly to the continuance of her first complaint, and gave rise to the new ones; for she looked dejected and sallow. She was desired to go into an hospital, which she did. As soon as she got into a warm bed, and had good wholesome food, she began to mend, and in about five or six weeks she had become fat and almost well; the sore only about the root of the nail of the great toe had not healed; but that appeared now to be owing to the root of the nail being detached, therefore acting as an extraneous body. She came out of the hospital before this toe had got well, and, returning to her old poor mode of living, she had a return of the soreness in the mouth ; however, she mended at last without the use of more mercury. This case I shall further consider when on diseases resembling the venereal. The following case will further prove that we often suspect com- plaints to be venereal when they really are not. A gentleman had for some time blotches on his skin. The face, arms, legs, and thighs were in many places covered with them, and they were in their different stages of violence. In this situation he applied to me, and I must own they had a very suspicious appearance. I asked him what he supposed these blotches were ; he said he supposed them to be venereal. I asked him when he had a recent venereal complaint; he told me not for above twelve months. I then asked him how long he had had the blotches ; and the answer was, above six months. As this was a sufficient time for making observations upon them that might as- certain better than the mere appearance what they were, I asked him if any of the blotches that came first had disappeared in that time, and he said many; I desired to see where those had been, and on examination I found only a discoloured skin, common to the healing of superficial sores. I then declared to him that they were not venereal, for if they