180 OF GONORRIICEA. the urethra than for themselves, which is an idea applicable to all sym- pathies. Thus the swelling and inflammation appear suddenly, and as suddenly disappear, or in a few minutes go from one testicle to the other; the affection depending upon the state of the urethra, and not at all upon the part itself. A part, however, of the testicle, the epidi- dymis, assumes all the characters of inflammation, remaining swelled even for a considerable time after the inflammation has subsided. The first appearance of swelling in the testicle is generally a soft pulpy fulness of the body of the testicle, which is tender to the touch; this increases to a hard swelling, accompanied with considerable pain. The hardest part is generally the epididymis, and principally that portion of it which is at the lower end of the testicle, as may be distinctly felt. The hardness and swelling, however, often run the whole length of that body, and form a knob at the upper part. The spermatic chord is like- wise often affected, and more especially the vas deferens, which is thick- ened and sore to the touch. The veins of the testicle sometimes become varicose. I have seen such a state of veins accompany a swelling of the testicle in two instances. A pain in the small of the back generally attends inflammations of the testicle of all kinds, with a sense of weak- ness of the loins and pelvis. The bowels generally sympathise with most complaints of the testicle ; in some by cholicy pains, in others by an un- common sensation both in the stomach and intestines. Sickness is a common symptom, and even vomiting; the powers of digestion by this means are impaired, and a disposition for the accumulation of air takes place, which is often very troublesome. Here we have from the testicles a chain of sympathies, as we had in consequence of the irritation run- ning along the whole urinary passages : first the testicle is affected from the urethra; then the spermatic chord, the loins, intestines, stomach ; and from thence in some measure the whole body. In a case of swelled testicle, I have known the buttocks swell; but the swelling was not of the inflammatory kind, and in making water pain was felt in that part. Whether this symptom arose from the swelling of the testicle, or from the same common cause, that is, the gonorrhoea, is not easily determined, although the latter supposition is the most probable. It has been asserted, but without proof, that in cases of swelled tes- ticles in consequence of a gonorrhoea, it is not the testicle that swells, but the epididymis. The truth is, it is both the one and the other. Any man that is accustomed to distinguish between a swelling of the whole testicle, and that of the epididymis only, will immediately be sensible that in the hernia humoralis the whole testicle is swelled. The testicle as- sumes the same shape that it does from other causes, where we know.