468 DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. Although the venereal disease keeps its specific properties distinct in its several forms, yet its symptoms are in appearance common to many the course and progress of the disease, and the mode of cure. Where these are the same as are found in syphilis, we can scarcely doubt the identity of the virus; where there is a decided and uniform difference under similar circumstances, we must natu- rally infer a diversity. Hence any error or inaccuracy in our notions of the venereal disease itself will infal- libly affect our discrimination of the diseases which resemble it, and lead, according to the prepossessions and bias of the individual, either to the undue extension or the undue limitation of the term. Of late years the most frequent error seems to have been the ex- clusion of cases which are manifestly syphilitic, on account of some difference from the preconceived opinions which have been formed of lues venerea. Writers on this subject seem scarcely to have been aware how various are the appearances of venereal sym- ptoms, and how different at different times is the effect of remedies. A primary sore, in which the characters of a chancre as given by Mr. Hunter are not obviously visible, may nevertheless be venereal. It may be derived from a venereal sore, and may pro- duce constitutional symptoms which have every character of genuine syphilis. In se- condary affections the variety is still greater. Symptoms of a doubtful character are frequently so intermixed with others, which it is impossible to mistake, as to be cer- tainly attributable to the same cause. Hence when we meet with deviations from those forms of the disease which are most peculiar and most characteristic, we are not warranted in inferring a diversity of cause, or ascribing the symptoms to the existence of a different virus from that of genuine syphilis. Yet many histories have been given to the world as pseudo-syphilitic in which the ap- pearances exactly accord with some forms of the lues venerea. Again, the notions which have prevailed as to the mode of cure have been a still more fertile source of error. Mercury has been considered as the only cure of syphilis, and its action has been taken as the test of the nature of the malady. Where on the one hand mercury has disagreed, or where on the other the patient has recovered without resorting to its use, it has been inferred that the disease has not been venereal. Yet it has been fully established by the experience of former ages, confirmed as it has been by a long series of experiments which have been recently instituted, that most if not all venereal symptoms, whether primary or secondary, may be subdued without the use of mercury. It is not necessary to refer to these experiments in detail. They are well known ; and the conclusion which has been drawn from them is irresistible, or at least there are no sources of error which can materially impeach its general truth. On the other hand, the unfavourable action of mercury is no proof that the disease is not venereal. Many circumstances may interfere with its effect as an anti-syphilitic, and - render it inert or injurious in cases which are truly venereal. When it produces no sensible effect on the system, it frequently has no action also on the venereal symptoms. When it produces vomiting, or dysentery, or erethismus, or materially deranges in any way the health, venereal symptoms will usually spread under its use. Cases are daily occurring in which the subsequent progress of the malady proves the truth of this view; in which the ultimate cure is effected by means of mercury, though at one time it has seriously aggravated the affections it was employed to cure. In such cases a practical knowledge of the course and aspect of lues venerea can alone guide the judgement. If the practitioner has not this knowledge, he will be staggered in his belief as to the na- ture of the disease on the occurrence of any untoward symptoms, and will usually aban- don the mercurial treatment altogether. If he has such an acquaintance with the malady as to give him confidence in the accuracy of his opinion, he will inquire whether there