SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 263 tion, the bark and cordials were given, with as much food as his sto- mach would bear. Their effects on the constitution were almost im- mediate, and he began to recover, although but slowly. I made two punctures in the phimosis at the extremity, with a view both to take off the tension and to evacuate the urine from the cellular membrane, be- tween the penis and the skin. Blisters began to form on the skin of the penis, and at last mortifica- tion took place in several parts, especially on the prepuce, which I di- vided at the mortified parts, and thereby the glans became exposed, so that the catheter could now be introduced easily. Upon squeezing the swelling, from the perinseum forwards along the penis, I could force out at the mortified parts, air, water, and some matter. The cellular membrane under the skin was almost wholly mor- tified. When bounds were set to the mortification, the sloughing cel- lular membrane began to separate; and a good deal was cut away to keep the parts clean, and to allow of a freer vent for the matter. Now that separation was taking place, it was clear that no more water from the bladder could insinuate itself any further into the surrounding cel- lular membrane ; therefore it was not necessary to pass the catheter any more, and the patient was allowed to make water whenever he had a call, which when he did, the water came both ways, through the ure- thra and through the cellular membrane, at the openings where the skin had sloughed off. As the sloughs separated they came forwards from behind, at the side of the scrotum, so that I could draw them out; and when most of the mortified cellular membrane was removed, I saw a part, about the size of a sixpence, of the tendinous covering of the cor- pus cavernosum dead, which was also allowed to slough off. Most of the water now came through the sore. The parts became more painful; he was more restless, and one morning he had a shivering fit. I en- deavoured to pass a bougie down the sore, between the skin and penis, but could not: in the evening of the same day a gush of matter and blood came out of the sore, which immediately relieved him, and he began to mend again, and continued to do so, both in the parts and his general health, the water coming both ways, but often varying in quan- tity between the two passages ; more and more, however, came the right way, till at last the new passage closed up entirely. While the external parts were healing I passed a bougie occasionally, to keep the passage clear and open. To find out the situation of the internal opening, I ordered the patient to press on different parts of the perineum while he was making water, by which means he found that by pressing upon a particular spot he could stop the water from flowing through the new passage. He was directed, however, not to press too