SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 271 stance from one another where they are fixed behind to the belt, for otherwise they are much altered in tightness by the motion of the thigh. If they have a flat spring in them so much the better*. The common bag-truss for the scrotum answers extremely well, first by fixing two or three rings on each side of it along the side of the scrotum; and with a piece of small tape the ring of the cannula can be fastened to any one of those rings that is most convenient for its situ- ation. Whatever instrument is used for the purpose of keeping the passage clear and open while the sores are healing, whether the sores are in con- sequence of this operation, or in consequence of the causes of the fistulae, which I have described, there is a limited time in many cases for its continuance ; for if continued beyond a certain period, it frequently acts contrary to what was intended; at first it often assists the cure, but towards the last it may obstruct the healing of the sores by acting at the bottom of the wound as an extraneous body. Therefore, whenever the sores become stationary, I would advise the withdrawing of the in- strument, and the introducing it only occasionally. The catheter will pro- bably be still the best instrument for this purpose, as it will pass more readily, and draw off the water at the same time : however, I have often used a bougie, and by great care have passed it with success; and pro- bably it will be proper to use it every now and then, even when all is healed, in order to determine whether or not the passage is free from disease. The sore and the wound are to be at first dressed down to the bot- tom as much as possible, which will prevent the reunion of the parts just divided, and make the granulations shoot from the bottom so as to consolidate the whole by one bond of union. When the urethra has suffered so much that abscesses have formed beyond the scrotum, the patient should ever after take great care to avoid a fresh gonorrhoea, for he seldom in that case escapes a return of the same complaints ; and, indeed if he is not careful in many other respects, he is liable to returns of the same disease. If, notwithstand- ing this precaution, he should contract a gonorrhoea, everything heating is to be carefully avoided, particularly irritating injections. The following case shows that keeping extraneous bodies in the ure- thra prevents wounds made into that canal from healing. A man, aged twenty-six, came into St. George’s Hospital March 2, 1783. He had laboured under a fistula in perinaeo for near two years, arising from a stricture, attended with great pain and difficulty in making water. Four fistulous orifices were to be observed in the peri- * Mr. Yanbutchell’s springs would answer very well.