400 OF THE LUES VENEREA. The actual cold parts come first into action, then those that are less bo, and next those that are nearest in sympathy, and so on, except the parts first in order of susceptibility have been only partially cured, and then their recurrence may correspond with the action of those that are second in order of susceptibility, and all the parts will come into action together. What would seem to strengthen this opinion is the different effects that arise from different climates; in warm climates the disease seldom or never arises to such a height as in cold climates; it is more slow in its progress, and much more easy to cure, at least if we may give credit to the accounts we have received of the disease in such cli- mates. Whether the difference in the time of appearance between the super- ficial and deeper-seated parts in warm climates is the same as in cold ones, I do not know, but from the above theory it should not be so great in the warm as in the cold climates. Besides the causes already mentioned, it would appear that there are others by which the lues venerea may be brought sooner into action than it otherwise would be if left entirely to the nature of the constitu- tion ; for I think I have seen cases where fever has brought it into ac- tion when the disposition had been previously formed. Like most other diseases to which there is a susceptibility or disposition, we find that any disturbance in the constitution shall call it forth : scrofula, gout, and rheumatism are often called forth in this way. Having said that the deeper-seated parts of the body come into action later than those that are superficial, I shall now observe, that when the lues venerea has been cured so far as only to remove the first actions, but not to eradicate the disposition in the deeper-seated parts, as has been explained, under such circumstances of the disease it never attacks again the external, or the parts that were first affected, but only the deeper-seated parts which are second in order of time. The reason is, that the deeper-seated parts had not been affected at the time of the cure of the first. The following cases, selected from a great number of similar ones, will illustrate the doctrines we have laid down. In January, 1781, A. B. had connexion with a woman, and two days after perceived an itching in the glans : at the end of four days he found chancres upon the prepuce. He took about twenty grains of calomel, and then applied to a surgeon, under whose care he remained three months, that is, till April. He thought himself nearly well, and went into the country, taking a few pills with him, and at the end of another month believed himself perfectly cured. Three months after, that is, in August, he caught cold, and had considerable fever, for which James’s powders were given. Soon after this, spots of a copper colour