SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 309 of the penis, such as the venereal gonorrhoea, especially when violent. The sensation of such erections is rather uneasy than pleasant; nor is the sensation of the glans at the time similar to that arising from the erections of desire, but more like to the sensation of the parts immedi- ately after coition. Such as arise spontaneously are of more serious consequence than those from inflammation, as they proceed, probably, from causes not curable in themselves, or by any known methods. The priapism arising from inflammation of the parts, as in a gonorrhoea, is attended with nearly the same symptoms ; but generally the sensation is that of pain, proceeding from the inflammation of the parts. It may be observed, that what is said of priapism is only applicable to it when a disease of itself, and not as a symptom of other diseases, which is frequently the case*. The common practice in the cure of this complaint is to order all the nervous and strengthening medicines, such as bark, valerian, musk, camphor, and also the cold bath. I have seen good effects from the cold bath; but sometimes it does not agree with the constitution, in which cases I have found the warm bath of service. Opium appears to be a specific in many cases, from which circumstance, I should be apt, upon the whole, to try a soothing plan. Seminal weakness, or a secretion and emission of the semen without erections, is the reverse of a priapism, and is by much the worst disease of the two. There is great variety in the degrees of this disease, there being all the gradations from the exact correspondence of the actions of all the parts to the testicles acting alone; in every case of the disease there is too quick a secretion and evacuation of the semen. Like to the priapism, it does not arise from desires and abilities, although when mild it is attended with both, but not in a due proportion ; a very slight desire often producing the full effect. The secretion of the semen shall be so quick that simple thought, or even toying, shall make it flow. Dreams have produced this evacuation repeatedly in the same night; and even when the dreams have been so slight, that there has been no consciousness of them when the sleep has been broken by the act of emission. I have known cases where the testicles have been so ready to secrete that the least friction on the glans has produced an emission : I have known the simple action of walking, or riding, produce this effect, and that repeatedly in a very short space of time. A young man, about four or five and twenty years of age, not so much * Added : “ A gentleman had a priapism for two years ; it originated from an irri- tation in the bladder, which went off at the time the priapism came : it only takes place in the night, and mostly in his sleep, and immediately awakens him ; having connexion makes it worse.”—Home.