SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 301 be so obvious; temporary relief may, however, be procured by opium, which is most effectual in slight and recent cases; and if it be applied as near to the part as possible, its effects will be more evident; and therefore it may be given by clyster as well as by the mouth*. I should, however, be rather inclined to rely on a blister applied to the perinreum, or to the lower part of the small of the back, or upper part of the sacrum if more convenient, than to any other method of cure. In all cases, where there is an irritation of the bladder, the patient should never endeavour to retain his water beyond the inclination to make it. It hurts the bladder and increases its irritability ; and indeed I am apt to think that this circumstance, even in sound parts, is often a predisposing cause of disease in this viscus and its appendage, the urethra : for I have known several cases where it has brought on the spasmodic stricture in the urethra in sound parts, and it is frequently an immediate cause of strangury in those who have either a stricture or a disposition to spasms in those parts. A gentleman in perfect health, from retaining his urine beyond the inclination, in the playhouse, had all the symptoms of an irritable bladder brought on, which continued for several years, rendering him miserable. §.6. Of a Paralysis of the Acceleratores Urince. In many irritations of the bladder, the urethra not only relaxes di- rectly on the stimulus to make water being felt in that viscus, as has been described, but a paralysis sometimes takes place in the voluntary muscles of those parts, so that the will cannot command them to con- tract to hinder the inconveniences that may attend an immediate evacu- ation of that fluid. If we attempt to stop the water, which is an act of the will, it is in vain; the acceleratores will not obey, and the water flows. A blister applied to the perinseum will have considerable effects in removing this complaint. * Added : “ I have known alum whey given, under which treatment the patient got well.”—Home.