OF THE LUES VENEREA. 432 It may be supposed to be unnecessary to mention, in the present state of our knowledge, that it never gets into the bones in the form of a metal, although this has been asserted by men of eminence and autho- rity in the profession, and even the dissections of dead bodies have been brought in proof of it; but my experience in anatomy has convinced me that such appearances never occur. Those authors have been quoted by others, imaginary cases of disease have been increased, the credulous and ignorant practitioner misled, and patients rendered miserable51. constitution of the person whose mouth cannot be affected, producing loss of appetite, pains of the rheumatic kind, and all the constitutional symptoms of hectic fever; and at the same time shall be curing the venereal disease effectually. “ A person had pains in his shoulders and blotches on the skin, supposed to be ve- nereal. He never could be affected with mercury. I made him rub in two drams of strong mercurial ointment every night, and the symptoms entirely disappeared, with- out any effects being produced by the mercury on the mouth, skin, or kidneys.”—Home. * [The symptoms which mark what the author has denominated the poisonous effects of mercury are of such importance as to require a more particular description. They assume two different forms, the one having an acute, the other a chronic character. The former constitutes what has been denominated mercurial erethismus. The effect of the poison is here chiefly felt on the heart. The pulse becomes hurried, small, and irregular; the action of the heart violent, but at the same time irregular, and fluttering ; and the weakness and imperfection of the circulation are further testified by paleness of the countenance, by frequent sighing, and anxiety about the praecordia, and by unsteadi- ness of the limbs. In very severe cases the countenance becomes contracted, and the extremities cold. Nevertheless the stomach and bowels show no signs of derangement, and the tongue, though unsteady and tremulous, is clean. Under these circumstances muscular exertion is often suddenly fatal. Syncope ensues, from which the heart is too weak to recover. If mercury is discontinued, and proper remedies are used, the action of the heart will be restored to its natural tone and regularity, and the affection will entirely disappear, leaving no consequences behind it. In the second form the derangement may be less immediately dangerous, but it more extensively pervades the whole system, and is more permanent. There shall be no palpitation of the heart, but the pulse shall be small and accelerated; there shall be loss of sleep and of appetite, a sallow paleness of the countenance, often a loaded tongue, and always great debility and emaciation. The general aspect shall be that of extreme ill-health. If this state be allowed to continue, other symptoms indicative of general cachenia will supervene. There will be scrofulous enlargements of the glands, rheu- matic pains in the limbs, or languid inflammation of the joints, having something of a scrofulous character. The ulcerative will everywhere supersede the adhesive process. Slight wounds will form sores, and when fractured bones have been recently united the union will give way. This state of constitution, if once fully established, is not easily corrected. Years frequently pass before all traces of it are removed. It is the result not so often of an inordinate dose of mercury continued only for a short period, as of a long and obstinate perseverance in the exhibition of moderate doses, notwithstanding evident signs of de- teriorated health and diminished powers. The expression of the author, added in a subsequent edition, that mercury “ at the same time shall be curing the venereal disease effectually,” must be understood as re- ferring to the absence of ptyalism, and not to the existence of the poisonous effects of