290 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. loins to rouse the bladder to action, and blisters to the perinseum, to take off the spasm from the urethra, often succeed. Electricity is sometimes of singular service, when applied in such cases to the peri- neum. Through the whole of the cure the urine must be drawn off frequently, because the bladder should not be allowed to be distended, which otherwise would be the consequence ; and the sensation arising from the distention of that viscus is a very oppressive one. A gentleman was at times attacked with a difficulty in making water, which he paid no attention to, as it had always gone off; but at last he was obliged to have recourse to the catheter, which afforded only a temporary relief. The spasm continued, and I was sent for. When I passed the catheter, I was obliged to press the lower part of the ab- domen to squeeze out the wrater, for the bladder appeared to give but little assistance. I ordered a blister to the loins, which gave some power of contraction to the bladder, and took off some of the spasm in the urethra, but still he was very little relieved. I then directed a blister to be applied to the perinaeum, which immediately removed his com- plaint. CHAPTER X. OF A SUPPRESSION OF URINE—AND OPERATIONS FOR THE CURE OF IT. In cases of total suppression of urine arising from strictures, or other causes where a catheter cannot be passed, and where every other me- thod recommended is impracticable, an artificial opening must be made into the bladder for the evacuation of the water. There are three places where this opening may be made, and each has had its advocates. This operation has not been considered in all its circumstances in dif- ferent patients, so as to direct the young surgeon in the variety of cases that may occur; for under some circumstances the operation is more advisable in one place than another; and indeed it may some- times be next to impossible to perform it in a particular part. The opening may be made first in the perinreum, where we now cut for a stone ; secondly, above the pubes, where cutting for the stone was