OF GONORRHOEA. 200 I shall divide injections, according to their particular effects upon the urethra, into four kinds,—the irritating, sedative, emollient, and astrin. gent. The specific, I believe, is not yet discovered, although a mercurial injection, in some form or other, is by most people supposed to be pos- sessed of such a power, and of course this mineral makes part of many of the injections now in use. Irritating injections, of whatever kind, I suspect in this disease act upon the same principle; that is, by producing an irritation of another kind, which ought to be greater than the venereal, by which means the venereal is destroyed and lost, and the disease is cured, although the pain and discharge may still be kept up by the injection. Those effects, however, will soon go off when the injection is laid inside, because they arise only from its irritating qualities. In this way bougies, as well as many injections, may be supposed to form a cure ; and although they increase the symptoms for the time, they never can increase the disease itself, any more than the same injection which would produce the same symptoms, if applied to the urethra of a sound man, can communicate the disease. Most of the irritating injections have an astringent effect, and prove simply astringents when mild, their irritating quality depend- ing chiefly upon their strength. As irritating injections do not agree with all inflammations arising from the venereal poison*, it may be asked, In what cases are the irri- tating injections to be used with advantage ? This I have not been able to determine absolutely; but I think irritating injections should never be used where there is already much inflammation, especially in consti- tutions which cannot bear a great deal of irritation, as a previous know- ledge of the disease in the same person sometimes teaches us; nor should they be used where the irritation has spread beyond the specific distance; nor where the testicles are tender; nor where, upon the dis- charge ceasing quickly, they have become sore; nor where the peri- nseum is very susceptible of inflammation, and especially if it formerly has suppurated ; nor where there is a tendency in the bladder to irri- tation, which is known from the patient having had for some time a frequency in making water. In such cases I have not succeeded with them; they not only do no good, but they often do harm, for I have seen them make the inflammation spread further in the urethraf; and I think I have had reason to suspect that they have been the cause of abscesses in perinseo. But in cases that are mild, and in constitutions that are not irritable, injections often succeed, and remove the disease * For I have already remarked, that the inflammation varies according to the con- stitution. t It is, however, to be remarked, that this symptom is not always to be attributed to the injection, for it often happens when none has been used.