437 OF THE LUES VENEREA. order to procure its greatest action with safety, and to procure this in the most effectual way, it must be given till it produces local effects somewhere, but not too quickly, that we may be able to throw in a proper quantity; for local effects produced too quickly prevent the suf- ficient quantity being thrown in for counteracting the venereal irrita- tion at large. I have seen cases where the mercury very readily acted locally, and yet the constitution was hardly affected by it, for the dis- ease did not give way. A gentleman had a chancre which he destroyed with caustic, and dressed the sore with mercurial ointment. He had also a slight un- easiness in one of his groins, which went no further, but which showed an absorption of the poison. The chancre soon healed, and he rubbed in about two ounces of mercurial ointment. He began this course with small quantities, that is, a scruple at each rubbing, and increased it; however, it soon affected his mouth, and he spit for about a month. Two months after he had a venereal ulcer in one of his tonsils. Here was a considerable sensible effect from a small quantity of mercury, which proved ineffectual, because its specific effects, as I apprehend, were not in proportion to its sensible effects, the salivary glands being too susceptible of the mercurial irritation. On the other hand, I have seen cases where quantity did not answer, till it was given so quickly as to affect the constitution in such a manner as to produce local irritation, and consequently sensible evacuations, which is a proof that the local effects are often the sign of its specific effects on the constitution at large, and shows that the susceptibility of the diseased parts to be affected by the medicine is in proportion to the effects of it upon the mouth. Its effects are not to be imputed to eva- cuation, but to its irritation ; therefore mercury should be given, if pos- sible, so as to produce sensible effects upon some parts of the body, and in the largest quantity of mercury that can be given to produce these effects within certain bounds; and these sensible effects should be the means of determining how far the medicine may be pushed, in order to have its best effects upon the disease without endangering the con- stitution. The practice here must vary according to circumstances ; and if the disease is in a violent degree, less regard must be had to the con- stitution, and the mercury is to be thrown in in larger quantities; but if the disease be mild it is not necessary to go beyond that rule, although it is better to keep up to it on purpose to cure the disease the sooner. If the disease is in the first order of parts, a less quantity of mercury is necessary than if it were in the second order of parts, and had been of long standing, writh its first appearances only cured, and the venereal disposition still remaiuing in the secondary parts. To cure the disease,