324 OF CHANCRE. however, and inflammation sometimes attacks the prepuce, even when the disease is in the form of what I suspect to be a gonorrhoea of the glans and prepuce*, sometimes even in the common gonorrhoea, but most frequently of all from a chancre in the prepuce. When this dis- ease or tumefaction takes place in consequence of a chancre, I suspect that there is an irritable disposition in the habit; for it is plain there is more than the specific action, the inflammation extending beyond the specific distancea. It may be observed here, that the prepuce is no more than a doubling of the skin of the penis when not erected, for then it becomes too large for the penis, by which provision the glans is covered and preserved when not necessary to be used, whereby its feelings are probably more acute. When the penis becomes erect it in general fills the whole skin, by which the doubling forming the prepuce in the non-erect state is unfolded, and is employed in covering the body of the penis. The diseases called phimosis and paraphimosis, being a thickening of the cellular membrane of this part, they will commonly be in pro- portion to the inflammation and distensibility of the cellular membrane of the part. The inflammation often runs high, and is frequently of the erysipelatous kind ; besides, in such parts where the cellular membrane is so very loose, the tumefaction is considerable, and the end of the pre- puce being a depending part the serum is accumulated in it, which in many inflammations is allowed to pass from the inflamed to some more * See page 169, where this gonorrhoea is mentioned. original chancre will remain single. The character and course of the induration form on the whole that criterion which is most certain and most generally observable. But it must not be forgotten that there is a class of venereal sores to which the above description does not apply. In the sores usually called phagedenic, the progress of the ulcer is not preceded by the venereal induration, nor is such induration left after it is cicatrized. The other points of discrimination fail also. The extension is irregular, one edge generally spreading while another is healing: and the discharge does not in- fect the parts on which it is suffered to rest. Yet undoubtedly these sores are the con- sequences of impure connexion, and are followed by secondary symptoms ; and it is therefore difficult to deny their venereal origin, though the laws which they observe are very different from those which regulate the course of a common chancre. They are comparatively rare. The description of the author is applicable to forty-nine cases out of fifty ; and its practical value is scarcely diminished by the occasional occurrence of phagedenic sores, which may be readily known by the characters which peculiarly be- long to them, and of which a more particular description will be given hereafrer.] a [Any ulcer on the internal prepuce may produce phimosis, because it may be at- tended by so much thickening as to destroy the natural flexibility of the prepuce. A chancre is more likely to produce it than any other sore, because it is necessarily ac- companied by induration, and that of a kind which is much more obstinate than the thickening of a common inflammation.]