OF GONORRHCEA. 198 off, and if that is not carried off a lues venerea is to be the consequence. This reasoning is not just; and therefore the question to be considered is, do they or do they not assist us in the cure of the gonorrhoea ? I believe they do not, in any case, lessen the venereal inflammation; but certainly they often lessen the discharge. As that effect, however, does not constitute a cure, it is not necessary to produce it. I can conceive that a combination of astringents, especially the spe- cific astringents of those parts, as the balsams, with any other medicine which may be thought to be of service, may help to lessen the discharge in proportion as the inflammation abates; and this I have often seen, as will be explained more at length hereafter. §.2. Of local Applications—different kinds of Injections : irritating, sedative, emollient, astringent. Local applications may be either internal to the urethra, external to the penis, or both; all of which will in many cases be necessary. The internal, applied to the urethra, should seem the most likely to cure this species of disease, by coming immediately in contact with the diseased parts; for if they have any power of action, whatever that be, it must be in opposition to the venereal irritation. Therefore we might sup- pose that most irritations that are not venereal would tend to a cure; but certainly this is not universally the case. If, on the contrary, the applications are such as quiet irritation, they must also be of service. Local applications to the urethra may be either in a solid or fluid form, each of which has its advantages and disadvantages. A fluid is only a temporary application, and that of very short duration, and is similar to the washing of a sore, which is, I believe, in most cases un- necessary ; for I imagine that matter from any sore whatever is always such as cannot stimulate that sore into any action. It can be of no consequence, therefore, whether the matter is allowed to lie upon it or not; but it being removed, the medicines are allowed to come in con- tact with the inflamed surface. I apprehend it is only in this way that the removal of it can be of service. The solid applications may remain a long time, and are similar to the dressings in the case of a wound. When the parts are not so much inflamed as to prevent the use of them, they would appear to have an advantage over the fluid appli- cations by continuance; but they in general irritate immediately, in con- sequence of their solidity alone. These applications must be in the form of a bougie ; but I should be inclined to suppose that the less use that is made of bougies, when these parts are in an inflamed state, the bet-