365 OF BUBO. suppuration has taken place, ancl then becomes more diffused*. It is rapid in its progress from inflammation to suppuration and ulceration. The suppuration is commonly large for the size of the gland, and but one abscess. The pain is very acute. The colour of the skin which the inflammation attacks is of a florid red. It may be observed, that the buboes in consequence of the first mode of absorption, viz. where no local disease has been produced, will al- ways be attended with a greater uncertainty of the nature of the dis- ease than those attended or preceded by a disease in the penis, because a simple inflammation and suppuration of these glands are not sufficient to mark it to be venereal; but as we always have this disease in view when the glands of the groin are the seat of the disease, the patient runs but little risk of not being cured, if it should be venereal; but I am afraid that patients have often undergone a mercurial course when there has been no occasion for it. It will perhaps be difficult to find out the specific difference in the diseases themselves ; but I think that such buboes as arise without any visible cause are of two kinds; one similar to those arising from chancres or gonorrhoea; that is, inflaming and suppurating briskly. These I have always suspected to be venereal; for although there is no proof of their being so, yet from these circumstances there is a strong presump- tion that they are. The second are generally preceded and attended with slight fever, or the common symptoms of a cold, and they are generally indolent and slow in their progress. If they are more quick than ordinary, they be- come more diffused than the venereal, and may not be confined to one gland. When very slow they give but little sensation, but when more quick, the sensation is more acute, though not so sharp as in those that are venereal; and most commonly they do not suppurate, but often be- come stationary. When they do suppurate it is slowly, and often in more glands than one, the inflammation being more diffused, and com- monly small in proportion to the swelling. The matter comes slowly to the skin, not attended with much pain, and the colour is different from that of the other, being more of the purple. Sometimes the sup- purations are very considerable, but not painful. Now let us see what other causes there are for the swelling of these glands besides venereal infection, to which I have ascribed one of the modes of swelling; for there must be other causes to account for the other modes of it. * It may be observed here, that the glands and surrounding parts being dissimilar, inflammation does not so readily become diffused as when it takes place in a common part.