OF THE LUES VENEREA. 460 §. 1. General Observations on the Medicines usually given for the Cure. A decoction of the woods, among which are commonly included guai- acum and sarsaparilla, is one of the first medicines in the cure, and many of the cases yield to it, which gives them the credit of curing the venereal disease, while such diseases were supposed to be venereal. The sarsaparilla was often given alone, and was found to produce nearly the same effect. The good effects of it in one case gave it some reputation*. A diet-drink discovered at Lisbon was also of considerable service, and as it cured cases similar to those cured by the sarsaparilla, it was ima- gined that the diet-drink consisted principally of a decoction of this root. This was still on the supposition that all those cases were venereal; but it was observed at last that those medicines did not cure this disease till mercury had been given, and in tolerably large quantity. This was sufficient to lead some thinking minds to doubt whether they were ve- nereal or not; and their being cured by different medicines ought to pro- duce a conviction of their being different from the venereal disease, and that they are themselves of different kinds. The mezereon has also been found to be of service in some symptoms of the lues venerea, such as nodes of the bones ; but their being venereal was taken for granted. The mezereon is seldom given in venereal ul- cers in the throat, or blotches on the skin, which, of all the venereal symptoms, are the most certain, and the most easy of cure; yet it was conceived that it removed such symptoms as are the most difficult of cure; but all those cases in which the mezereon has been given with success plainly appear not to have been venereal. When the hemlock came into fashion in this country, it was given in almost every disease, and of course was tried in some of those complaints consequent to the venereal disease, and some of these it was found to cure, so that it now stands upon the list of remedies. Velno’s vegetable syrup has had similar effects in some of these cases, and opium appears also to have many advocates. Opium, like the sarsaparilla and meze- reon, was supposed by its first introducers to cure the lues venereaf, but, like the sarsaparilla, it appears to have no effect till mercury has done its best or its worstIt has certainly considerable effects in many * See London Medical Essays, a case published by Mr. Fordyce, now Sir William Fordyce. t See Medical Communications, vol. i. page 307. * See a pamphlet published by Mr. Grant.