OF GONORRHOEA. 203 The external applications are generally poultices and fomentations, but they can be of little sendee, except when the external parts, such as the prepuce, glans, and orifice of the urethra, are in some degree in- flamed ; the last, indeed, is almost always more or less affected. When the glands of the urethra are so much swelled so as to be felt externally, the application of mercurial ointment to the part may be proper; but most probably this will be of more service after the inflam- mation has subsided. Indeed, mercurial ointment is often applied to all the external surfaces of those parts when in a state of inflammation, with an emollient poultice over it. I am not perfectly satisfied of the utility of this practice. CHAPTER V. OF THE CURE OF GONORRHOEA IN WOMEN. In women the cure of the gonorrhoea is nearly the same as in men ; but the disease itself is milder, and the secondary symptoms less numerous in women. This arises from there not being so many parts to be af- fected, and from those parts not being either of so great extent, or so liable to inflammation. Hence the cure becomes more simple. When the disease is in the vagina only it is easily cured. Injections are the best means that can be used, and, after the use of them, it may be proper to anoint the parts, as far up as possible, with mercurial oint- ment*, and also to wash the external parts often with the injection. If the inflammation has attacked the urethra, injections there cannot be so conveniently used, as it is almost impossible for the patient to throw an injection into that canal. The injections recommended in the cure of men are equally service- able here ; but they may be made doubly strong, as the parts of women are not nearly so irritable as the common seat of this disease in men. If what I have said of the disease in women be just, we must see that it will be a difficult thing to say, with any degree of certainty, when the * How far mercurial ointment assists in the cure I have not been able to determine; the use of it arises more from a kind of practical analogy than real experience in such cases.