438 OF THE LUES VENEREA. whether in the form of chancre, bubo, or lues venerea, probably the same quantity of mercury is necessary, for one sore requires as much mercury as fifty sores in the same person, and a small sore as much as a large one ; the only difference, if there is any, must depend upon the nature of the parts affected, whether naturally active or indolent. If there be any material difference between the recent and constitutional, which, I apprehend, there is, it may make a difference in the quantity. I do conceive that the recent are upon the whole more difficult to cure ; at least they commonly require longer time, although not always. Having thus far premised these general rules and observations, I shall now give the different methods of administering mercury. §.5. Of the different methods of giving Mercury—externally— internally. Previously to the giving of mercury it is' very proper to understand, as much as possible, the constitution of the patient with regard to this medicine, which can only be known in those who have already gone through a mercurial course; but as many of our patients are obliged to undergo this treatment more than once, it becomes no vague inquiry; for as there are many who can bear this medicine much better than others, it is very proper that this should be known, as it will be a direc- tion for our present practice. I think that few constitutions alter in this disposition, although I knew one case which admitted of a considerable quantity at one time without being visibly affected ; but about a twelve- month after the patient was affected with a very little. When mercury is given to cure the lues venerea, whatever length we mean to go in the sensible effects of it, we should get to that length if possible, and we should keep up to it. For we shall find it difficult to bring its effects to that standard again if we allow it to get below it. If the mercury should get beyond what we intended, we should be very much upon our guard in lowering it, and should probably begin to give it again before its effects are reduced to the intended standard; for the same quantity now will not operate so powerfully as before, insomuch that what at first produced greater effects than was intended will not be sufficient afterwards. Mercury is best applied externally in form of an ointment. Unctuous substances keep it divided, attach it to surfaces, and do not dry; it may also be supposed that they become a vehicle for the mercury, and carry it through the absorbents to the general circulation; for it is probable that oil is as easy of absorption as watery substances.