SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONOllRHCEA. 277 so that he could not make water when he had the inclination; but an injection of opium removed this complaint, and he was then well. In this case a few drops less, probably, would have effected a cure with- out any inconvenience. ยง.5. Of Caruncles or Excrescences in the Urethra. Strictures are not supposed to be the only causes of obstruction to the passage of urine in this canal; excrescences or caruncles are like- wise mentioned by authors as happening frequently. From the famili- arity with which they talk of them, and the few instances in which they really occur, one would suspect that this cause of obstruction was originally founded in opinion, and not observation, and afterwards handed down as matter of fact. If caruncles had been at first described from actual examination of cases, the language would have accorded with the appearances, and they would have been considered as seldom the causes of obstruction compared with strictures. However, they do sometimes happen, although but rarely. I have in all my examinations of dead bodies seen only two, and these were in very old strictures, where the urethra had suffered considerably. They were bodies rising from the surface of the urethra like granulations, or what would be called polypi in other parts of the body. It is possible they may be a species of internal wart; for I have seen warts extend some way into the beginning of the urethra, having very much the appearance of gra- nulations. Most probably it will not be possible in the living body to distinguish caruncles, excrescences, or risings in the urethra, from a stricture; for I cannot conceive that they can produce any new sym- ptoms, or peculiar feel to the examiner. ยง.6. Of the Cure of the Excrescence or Caruncle. I should very much suspect that this disease is not to be cured by the bougie; at least dilatation in such cases is not to be attempted, as there is no contraction. If therefore the bougie is of any use, it must be in making the camosity ulcerate from its pressure, which probably may be done by a large bougie pressing upon it with considerable force. But if this should not have the desired effect, I should certainly recom- mend or use the caustic, if the parts are so situated as to admit of the application ; and from such practice I should not doubt of a cure. But the difficulty lies in distinguishing the disease from the true stricture;