SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 285 Thus, when the stimulus of expulsion of the urine takes place in the bladder, which immediately produces contractions in it, the urethra re- laxes, by which means the urine is expelled from the bladder, and al- lowed to pass through the urethra ; and when the action ceases in the bladder, the urethra contracts again like a sphincter muscle*, for the purpose of retaining the urine which flows into the bladder from the kidneys till it gives the stimulus for expulsion again. But in many diseases of these two parts this necessary alternate action is not regu- larly kept up, the one not obeying the summons of the other. This ir- regularity arises perhaps oftener from disease in the urethra than in the bladder, for the action of the urethra depends upon the actions of the bladder ; and if it is not disposed to obey the notices of the bladder, then there must be an irregularity as to time, which produces very trouble- some symptoms. We find in many diseases of the urethra, such as strictures and spasms, as also in diseases of certain parts belonging to this canal, such as the prostate and Cowper’s glands, that there is a greater disposition in this canal for contraction than common, so that when the bladder has begun to act, the water is not allowed to flow, the urethra not im- mediately relaxing; and the moment such a symptom takes place, every other power takes the alarm, and is brought in to assist the bladder, such as straining violently with the abdominal muscles and muscles of respiration, from all which there is violent pain in the parts immediately concerned, especially in the glans penis f. This disease has different degrees of violence. When slight, the distance in time between the contraction of the bladder and the relax- ation of the urethra is but short, only giving a momentary pain and straining, before the urethra relaxes, and the water flows according to the dilatation of the urethra, which, in many of these cases, is but very small. In others the distance of time is very long, many straining for a considerable time before a drop will come; and what does come is often only in drops; and sometimes before the whole urine can be ex- pelled in this way, the spasm of the urethra comes on again, and there is a full stop, which gives excruciating pain for a while ; but at last the bladder is, as it were, tired, and ceases to act. But as the urine in such * It may be remarked, that many sphincter muscles have two causes of action; one which may be called involuntary, depending on the natural uses and actions of the parts; the other is voluntary, where a greater degree of action can be produced by the command of the will: and when a diseased action takes place, it is probably of this vo- luntary action, for it is an increased action over the natural, which the voluntary is. f Added: “ A gentleman, whose bladder was in an irritable state, found, that by passing a bougie a little way into the urethra the irritation was taken off from the bladder, and he could retain the urine several hours.”—■ Home.