OF GONORRHCEA. 170 before he had visited women ? And his answer was, that he never had ; and that he had not this complaint always after coition, but only twice, as has been above mentioned, which, being uncommon, inclined him to suppose the effect to be venereal. I suspect that when the prepuce swells in a gonorrhoea of the urethra, producing a phimosis, which is often the case, it arises from the same disease having affected its inside, and that not being sufficient to pro- duce ulceration, it goes no further. It seems probable that this inflam- mation is of the erysipelatous kind, a circumstance very necessary to be known in the cure. The urethra is the part in which this form of the venereal disease is most frequent; and although the inflammation attending the disease in this part has many of the common symptoms of inflammation, yet it can hardly be called inflammatory when moderate, at least it does not con- stantly produce all the effects of common inflammation, though there is a tendency towards it. The parts seldom have all the characteristic symptoms; for there is no throbbing sensation; there is but little pain, except from the irritation of the urine and distention of the parts; the inflammation seldom goes deeper than the surface, and. we have there- fore rarely any tumefaction or thickening of the parts. It should rather seem to be an error loci on the surface of the urethra, like a bloodshot eye. The secretion of pus with so little inflammation is perhaps owing to these parts being naturally in a state of secretion; therefore the trans- ition from a healthy to a diseased secretion is more easily produced. It sometimes happens, however, that the parts do inflame considerably, and the inflammation goes deep into the cellular, or rather reticular, membrane of the corpus spongiosum urethrae, especially near the glans. Sometimes it extends further along the corpus spongiosum urethrae, producing tumefaction, that is, an extravasation of the coagulable lymph, which is the common cause of chordee. It may be observed in general, that in most cases when suppuration is produced there is a decrease of inflammation. The inflammation in the reticular membrane of the sur- rounding parts would appear not to be always confined to the adhesive stage, for in those parts we have sometimes suppurations, especially in the perinseum, which suppurations I suspect to be in the glands, as will be taken notice of hereafter. The gonorrhoea does not always attack an urethra otherwise sound; nor does it always attack an urethra the relative parts of which are al- ways sound. Thus we find people contracting this disease while they are affected with strictures, a swelled prostate gland, as also diseased testicles, or such testicles as very readily run into disease, by which the