OF BUBO. 371 can pass through diseased lymphatics, so as to have any effect upon them, but I judge from experience that it certainly can. As this surface is ^ too small, and as it is necessary that a larger quantity should be taken in, it becomes proper to give it either by the mouth, or by friction on some larger surface; this is necessary, to prevent the lues venerea, as well as to cure the parts themselves. The quantity cannot be deter- mined ; that must be left to the surgeon, who must be directed by the appearances of the original complaint, and the readiness with which the disease gives way. The same method is to be followed in women ; but as there is a larger surface in this sex more mercury may possibly be absorbed; and there should be a constant application of ointment to the inside and outside of the labia. ยง. 2. Of the Resolution of Buboes in the Grom. The inflammation of the glands is to be treated exactly upon the same principle with the other; but we have in general a larger surface of ab- sorption, so that we can make a greater quantity of mercury pass through the diseased parts. It will be proper to apply the mercury according to the situation of the inflamed gland. If the bubo be in the groin, according to our first situation, then it is necessary to rub the mercurial ointment upon the thigh. This surface will in general absorb as much mercury as will be sufficient to resolve the bubo, and to preserve the constitution from being contaminated by the poison that may get into it; but if resolution does not readily take place, then we may increase the surface of friction, by rubbing the ointment upon the leg. But if the bubo be on the lower part of the belly, that is, in the se- cond situation, then the ointment should be rubbed also upon the penis, scrotum, and belly; and the same if the bubo should be still forwards; for probably those glands receive the lymphatics from all the surfaces mentioned, as well as from the thigh and leg. The length of time for continuing the frictions must be determined by circumstances. If the bubo gives way, they must be continued till it has entirely subsided, and perhaps longer, on account of the cause of it, a chancre, which may not yield so soon as the bubo. If it still goes on to suppuration, the frictions may or may not be continued, for I do not know for certain if anything is to be gained by their continu- ance in this state. The quantity here recommended may affect the mouth; and this effect must also be regulated according to circumstances. 2 b 2