72 OF THE DISEASES ยง.4. Gam-Boils. Although suppuration cannot easily take place within the cavity of a tooth, yet it often happens that the inflammation which is extended beyond it is so great as to produce suppuration in the jaw at the bottom of the socket where the diseased tooth is, forming there a small abscess, commonly called a gum-boil. This inflammation is often very considerable, especially when the first suppuration takes place. It is often more diffused than inflammations in other parts, and affects the whole face, &c. The matter, as in all other abscesses, makes its own way outwards, and as it cannot be evacuated through the tooth, it destroys the alveolar processes, and tumifies the gum, generally on the fore part, either pointing directly at the root of the tooth, or separating the gum from it, and is evacuated in one or other of these two ways, seldom on the inside of the gum; however, this sometimes happens. Gum-boils seldom arise from other causes; however, it sometimes happens that they originate from a disease in the socket or jaw, having no connexion with the tooth, and only affecting it secondarily. Upon drawing such teeth, they are generally found diseased at or near the point, being there very rough and irregular, similar to ulcerating bones. There is no disease to appearance in the body of the tooth. These last- described gum-boils may arise wholly from such a cause, the appearance on the fang of the tooth being only an effect. These abscesses, whether arising from the teeth or the sockets, al- ways destroy the alveolar processes on that side where they open, as is very evident in the jaw-bones of many sculls; on which account the tooth becomes more or less loose. It may be perceived in the living body; for when the alveolar process is entirely destroyed on the out- side of the tooth, if that tooth be moved, the motion will be observed under the gum along the whole length of the fang. So far the teeth, alveolar processes, and gums become diseased by consent. It is common for these abscesses to skin over, and in all appearance heal. This is peculiar to those which open through the gums; but those which discharge themselves between the gums and teeth can never heal up, because the gum cannot unite with the tooth; however, the discharge in them becomes less at times from a subsiding of the suppuration, which indeed is what allows the other to skin over. But either exposure to cold, or some other accidental cause, occasioning a fresh inflammation, produces an increased suppuration, which either