442 OF THE LUES VENEREA. or three to one. Why this should be the case is probably not easily accounted for, the quantity of mercury being’ very nearly the same in a given weight in both, for in eight grains of calomel there are seven grains of crude mercury. Three grains of these preparations appear only equal to one of the mercurius calcinatus. The crude mercury given in the same quantities with either of the former appears the least efficacious of all; for fifteen grains of crude mercury rubbed down with any mucilage, seems only equal to one or two of the mercurius calci- natus. The corrosive sublimate, which is a salt capable of stimulating vio- lently, is generally given in solution in common water, brandy, or some of the simple waters, and has been used with the appearance of consi- derable success. It would appear that it removes ulcers m the mouth as soon, if not sooner, than any of the other preparations ; but this I suspect arises from its application to these parts in its passage to the stomach, acting upon them locally as a gargle. ~ However, from expe- rience, it appears not to have sufficient powers over the venereal irrita- tion ; in recent cases only removing the visible local effects, without entirely destroying the venereal action : for many mere have been found to relapse after having taken this preparation than from many of the others, which is owing to its passing very readily off by the skin. Be- sides, it disagrees much more with the stomach and intestines than any of the other preparations. A grain of this medicine, dissolved in about an ounce of some fluid, is generally the dose, and increased according as it agrees with the bowels, and according to its effects upon the mouth and disease3. a [The passage stands thus in every edition, and yet there must be some error, for die dose is larger than has ever been recommended by practitioners deserving of credit, and could not be taken without danger. The usual quantity is from a quarter of a grain to half a grain in the course of the day, and even this is generally divided into at least two doses. But larger quantities of corrosive sublimate may be given with safety, if proper pre- cautions are used. The object is that it should be introduced into the system, without producing any irritation on the surfaces which immediately absorb it. And this object is best answered by administering it in the form of a pill, and by giving it at the time of meals, so that it may mix with the food, and its acrid qualities may be corrected by dilution. It will be found that corrosive sublimate may be given in this way, in the dose of one third of a grain, three times in the day, or of one grain daily, without more inconvenience, or more risk of derangement of the stomach or bowels, than is incurred from the ordinary doses, given without these precautions. An opinion prevails that a course of corrosive sublimate gives the patient little secu- rity against a relapse. The observation applies chiefly to the smaller doses of the re- medy, which scarcely admit of the introduction of a sufficient quantity of the mercury, unless the course be very greatly prolonged. If it be given in the dose which is men-