DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 467 ones. But if a disease is suspected to be venereal, though it is not perfectly marked, yet if it resembles the venereal in most of its symptoms, it must be supposed to be venereal, that being the most probable, al- though it is by no means certain ; for probably the venereal can hardly be demonstrated in any case, especially in the form of the lues venerea, from its not having the power of contamination11. a [There has been much confusion respecting syphilitic and pseudo-syphilitic dis- eases, which would have been in a great measure avoided had due attention been paid to the obvious principles which should determine the identity or diversity of diseases. This confusion is in a very slight degree chargeable on Mr. Hunter. Yet there are a few instances where he seems to have been misled by preconceived opinions respecting the venereal disease, which a longer observation would have shown him were more than doubtful. Diseases may be confounded with syphilis which have no connexion with any virus whatever. This is frequent in sores on the genitals, where superficial excoriations, which by proper treatment may be healed in three days, and herpetic vesicles, which exactly resemble in their appearance and course those which so frequently occur on the lips, have been often erroneously treated as venereal. The same observation applies with equal force to some forms of sore throat and cutaneous eruptions. The existence of a morbid poison as the cause of lues venerea is inferred from twro facts. In the first place the primary symptoms have been ascertained by long obser- vation to be the consequence of communication with infected persons, and to be capable in the same way of infecting others. In the second place, these primary symptoms have been observed to be followed after an interval of time by secondary symptoms. It is true that in practice the nature of the case precludes us from obtaining full proof of these points in every individual instance, and we are forced to determine the treatment on probable conjecture rather than on certainty. But they have been ascertained to be generally true of the class of symptoms which is called venereal. It is on their truth that the received opinions of the pathology of the disorder rest, and in a medical argu- ment, unless one or both of them is satisfactorily ascertained, it cannot be denied that we have no adequate proof of the existence of any virus at all. The mode in which the disease has been derived, if it exists alone, may mislead, since there may be irritating qualities in the secretions of diseased parts, which may affect the parts to which they are applied, without the existence of any distinct morbid poison capable of generating a specific malady. Unless, therefore, the exact identity of the symptoms in the party which communicates and the party which receives the infection is fully shown, or unless the infection can be traced through several successive indi- viduals, some uncertainty affects the conclusion. But where the regular sequence of se- condary on primary symptoms is undoubtedly established, it is difficult to avoid the in- ference that there exists a distinct virus, which is received into the circulating fluids, and carries the seeds of the disease to the remoter parts of the body. It is observable, that the passages which have been so frequently quoted from Celsus and others, as proofs of the existence of the venereal disease in Europe before the close of the fifteenth century, refer only to the local injury sustained by those who come in contact with the diseased, and are entirely silent as to any constitutional affection being the consequence of the local malady. But where the existence of a poison is proved, it may still be questioned whether this poison is the same with that of lues venerea; and this question can only be an- swered by a comparison of the mode of communication, the character of the symptoms 2 ii 2