314 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. every three hours ; his food to be thin gruel, with fruit and lemon-juice, and his drink barley-water, with sugar and nitre. Notwithstanding this antiphlogistic plan of frequent cooling physic, anodynes, three emetics, and thirteen blood-lettings, the fever continued, and the pain, inflammation, and tumour increased till the eighth day, including the first day of seizure, when seeing no hope of discussing the tumour, the testicle being nearly as large as a child’s head, I attempted, by emollient fotuses and maturating cataplasms, to bring it to suppuration. On the 10th a fluctuation was perceptible, and on the 12th much more so, the scrotum having then put on a livid appearance. I used every possible argument for permission to open it, but he being now quite easy, would not admit it. On the 15th the patient was again attacked with rigors, coldness, and shivering, succeeded by a great feverish heat, which soon terminated in a profuse sweat; yet no pain attended this paroxysm. In the evening, however, the tumour was so prominent that I was of opinion it would open spontaneously before morning, when I hoped to obtain his consent to enlarge the aperture; but this not happening, and all entreaties relating to the necessity of an incision proving ineffectual, I contented myself by giving the bark with elixir of vitriol. From this time, after every paroxysm of fever, the testicle was observed to decrease. Not being permitted to make an incision, and his strength and appetite continuing good, I began to entertain hopes of success without it, and advised him to persist in the use of the tonic and antiseptic plan, with the addition of stupes wet with the de- coction of bark, to be constantly applied; by which means, at the end of thirty days from the first seizure, the pus was totally absorbed. The testicle then appeared to be of the size of an hen’s egg, and was as hard as a scirrhus. I directed it to be rubbed, night and morning, with equal parts of the unguent, mercur. fort, and liniment, volat. camphorat., and ordered, internally, some mercurial alteratives, with a decoction of bark. By these aids his night sweats, and every other disagreeable symptom, gradually abated; he gathered strength, flesh, and spirits very fast, and the diseased testicle went on constantly decreasing, though very slowly, for near twelve months, at the expiration of which time there was no other appearance of it than a confusion of loose fibres, obvious to the feeling, in the upper part of the scrotum. About a month ago the pa- tient consented to my examining it. Of the testicle there was not the least vestige; neither could I perceive the tunica vaginalis on that side in the groin; but upon the os pubis, and a little under it, I could em- brace with my fingers and thumb the chord, and distinguish the vessels, which were without the least degree of hardness or scirrhosity ; and if I pressed one in particular, I gave him exquisite pain for a moment.