OF THE LUES VENEREA. 415 carried off the ulcers by deglutition, or the motion of the parts, so that no succession of scurfs or scabs can take place, as on the skin. Their progress is also much more rapid than on the common skin, ulceration taking place very fast. Like most other spreading ulcers, they are generally very foul, and for the most part have thickened or bordered edges, which is very common to venereal or cancerous sores, and indeed to most sores which have no disposition to heal, whatever the specific disease may bea. 3 [There is as great a variety in venereal sore throats as in venereal eruptions, and, from the situation of the part, the distinguishing characters are, on the whole, less easily observed. Yet some of the principal species are sufficiently distinct to be noticed. 1. The most genuine form of venereal sore throat appears to begin in the centre of the tonsil. In the early stages it is attended with very little pain or swelling, and is seldom observed until it has formed a distinct ulcer. But if attention is from any cause directed to the throat, an earlier appearance may sometimes be discovered. The tonsil may be found slightly swelled, and a yellow appearance may be seen occupying the substance of that part, and shining through the membrane on the surface which is yet entire. In a day or two ulceration takes place, and discloses a yellow or whitish slough, penetrating deep into the centre of the tonsil. There is little enlargement, and the surrounding parts are not violently inflamed. There is some sense of pricking, espe- cially at the time of swallowing ; but there is on the whole less difficulty of deglutition, and less uneasiness than might be expected from the magnitude and appearance of the ulcer. As it spreads, however, the surrounding parts become involved, and then it oc- casions more distress. The voice is altered, the hearing is rendered dull, and the in- flammation of the soft palate impedes deglutition. Yet on the whole the progress is slow, and there is little accompanying disorder of the general system. This species of sore throat often attends tubercular eruptions on the skin. There is reason to suppose that the secretion of the tonsils is analogous to that of the sebaceous glands of the skin, and hence it naturally happens that both parts are attacked simul- taneously. 2. Venereal sores often commence on the surface of the mucous membrane, by a small foul ulceration, which passes at an early period into rapid and extensive sloughing. These ulcers are not limited to the membrane covering the tonsils, but may arise on the soft palate, the arches of the palate, or any part of the pharynx, and are most frequently found immediately behind one of the posterior arches, or at the upper and back part of the pharynx, where the early appearance is concealed by the velum pendulum and uvula. They are sometimes preceded and always accompanied by much pain and in- flammation. The soft palate is swelled and very pendulous, and the attempt to raise it in swallowing is attended with excruciating pain. In speaking it seems to be abso- lutely quiescent. The irritation of the tumid velum and the slough excites a profuse secretion of saliva, and frequently much cough. The great distress which is thus oc- casioned produces a remarkable anxiety of countenance, which, conjoined with rapid emaciation, an accelerated pulse, and expectoration of a puriform character, gives the patient the aspect of considerable danger, and often suggests the idea that he is labour- ing under phthisis. The ravages committed by these ulcers are very extensive. The bone at the back part of the nares is frequently laid bare, and the disease proceeds to the destruction of the nose: and it occasionally occurs that the bodies of the vertebrae are exposed, and affected with fatal caries. At other times, especially in cases of long standing, these sores shall extend not by