441 OF THE LUES VENEREA. purge, and become the cause of their own expulsion. There are two ways of obviating these effects; the first is by preventing the salt from forming; the second, by mitigating its effects on the intestines if formed, by taking off their irritability. To prevent the salt from form- ing, the best way is to join the mercury with alkaline substances, either salts, or earths ; and when given in a saline state it may be joined with opium, or some of the essential oils. To prevent the formation of the salt, take of the preparations of mer- cury, such as mercurius calcinatus, mercurius fuscus, or calomel, form- ing them into pills, with the addition of a small quantity of soft soap, or any of the alkaline salts ; the alkaline salt also prevents the pill from drying : or instead of these a calcareous earth may be joined with the mercury, such as chalk or crabs’-eyes : upon this principle is the mer- curius alkalizatus, which is crude mercury rubbed down with crabs’- eyes. But these substances add considerably to the bulk of the medi- cine, no less than twenty grains being necessary for a dose, which con- tains seven grains and a half of crude mercury. The mercurius calci- natus, rubbed with a small portion of opium, makes an efficacious pill, and in general agrees well both with the stomach and bowels. Opium has long been joined with mercury to cure the venereal disease. By some as much has been attributed to the opium as the mercury ; how- ever, opium should be given with care, for it is not every constitution with which it agrees, often producing irritability, in some lassitude and debility, in others spasms. If the mercury is not given in the above manner, but in the form of a salt, or the salts are allowed to form, then it should be joined with one third of opium, and a drop of the oil of cloves, or camomile, which will make it agree with the stomach, and prevent its purging; or, if it is found still to disagree both with the stomach and bowels, compound it still further, by joining with the mercury the alkaline salts, the opium, and some essential oil. A grain of mercurius calcinatus made into a pill, with the addition of such medicines as the stomach or bowels may require, may be given every night for a week, and if in that time it has not affected the mouth, it may be repeated evening and morning; and after the patient has been accustomed to the medicine, and it is found not to fall much upon the mouth, it may be increased to two grains in the evening, and one in the morning. The same directions hold equally good either with the mercurius fus- cus, or calomel; but it requires more of these last preparations of mer- cury to have the same medicinal effect upon the disease than of the before-mentioned ; perhaps the proportion of their effects are about two