OF THE LUES VENEREA. 444 ยง. G. Of the Cure of the Disease in the second or third Stage. In the more advanced stages of the disease the mercurial course must be pushed further. The greatest quantity of that medicine that the patient can bear at a time is to be thrown in, and continued with steadi- ness till there is great reason to suppose the disease is destroyed. It will not be possible in such cases to prevent the mouth from being con- siderably affected, the quantity of mercury necessary to be used for the cure of these stages of the disease being such as will in most cases pro- duce that effect. Before the disease has advanced so far the patient most probably has taken mercury, and it is proper to inquire how he has been affected by it, and what quantity of it he can bear, which will in some degree direct us in the quantity now to be begun with. If the patient has not taken mercury for a considerable time, and is easily affected by it, which is the case that admits of the least quantity, it will be necessary to begin cautiously, regulating the quantity according to circumstances ; but if the person has taken mercury lately, although easily affected by it, more freedom may be used on returning to it, because it will have less power on his mouth, as also on the disease. Again, if the person has been taking mercury very lately, and is with difficulty affected by it, which is the case that admits of the greatest quantity, then it may be administered freely so as to affect the constitution in the proper time. If the mercury is brought to the mouth in six or eight days, and a con- siderable soreness is produced in twelve, it will in general be a good beginning. In such cases the constitution is, if possible, to be sur- prised by the medicine so as to produce its greatest effects, but with such caution as to be able to keep up these effects by quantity. Mercurial friction will answer better than mercury given internally; for in this way we are surer of throwing in a larger quantity in a given time than could be taken internally without hurting the stomach. The quantity of mercury applied in this way should be, under certain circumstances, in proportion to the surface on which it is applied, and the surface should be completely covered with the ointment ; for half an ounce of mercurial ointment, rubbed in upon a given surface, will have nearly the same effect as one ounce rubbed in on the same surface ; therefore one ounce to have double the effect should have double the surface. The quantity of ointment must therefore be adapted to the quantity of surface, for on a certain extent of surface no more than a determined quantity of ointment can be applied so as to be absorbed, and applying a greater quantity would be useless; and if the quantity of surface is