OF THE LUES VENEREA. 452 ยง.11. Of the Form of the different Preparations of Mercury when in the Circulation. It would appear from reason, and many circumstances, that mercury must be in the state of solution in the juices of the body before it can act upon the venereal disease, and indeed before it can act upon any other disease. That mercury is in a state of solution in our juices, and not in the state of any preparation of mercury that we know of, is very probable from the following facts. First, crude mercury, every salt of mercury, and calx of mercury, is soluble in the spittle, when taken into the mouth, by which means it is rendered sensible to the taste ; from thence it must appear that it is capable of solution in some of our juices. Secondly, crude mercury, when divided into small parts by gum ara- bic, &c., so as to be easier of solution when taken into the stomach, ge- nerally purges ; but crude mercury taken without such division has no such powers, not being so readily dissolved in the juices of the stomach. The simple calx of mercury has the same effects, purging, and much more violently, from being, I suppose, readier of solution in the animal juices; for if it only purged from its union with the acid which hap- pened to be in the stomach, it most probably would not purge more than crude mercury; although it is very probable that the calx is easier of solution in a weak acid than even the crude mercury. Thirdly, every preparation of mercury producing the same effect in the mouth, and also having one and the same effect in the constitution, shows that they must all undergo a change by which they are reduced to one particular form. We cannot say what that form is, whether it is the calx, the metal, or any other that we are acquainted with ; but it is probable that it is not any of them, but a new solution in the animal juices peculiar to the animal itself. This is rendered still more probable by this circumstance, that every preparation of mercury put into the mouth undergoes the same change, and the spittle has the same taste from every one of them. If every different preparation of mercury had the same properties in the constitution that it possesses out of it, which we must suppose if it enters and continues in the same form, in that case the venereal poison must be eradicated in as many different ways as there are preparations. Crude mercury would act mechanically, by increasing the weight and momentum of the blood; the calx would act like brickdust, or any other powder that is heavy; the red precipitate would stimulate by chemical properties in one way, while the corrosive sublimate would act in another, and the mercurius flavus in a third ;