110 OF THE DISEASES sometimes presses on the interior edge of the coronoid process, in shutting the mouth, and gives great pain. When it takes place in the lower jaw, some part of the tooth continues to lie hid under that pro- cess, and covered by the soft parts, which are always liable to be squeezed between that tooth and the corresponding tooth in the upper jaw. To open very freely, is absolutely necessary in these cases; but even that is often not sufficient. Nothing but drawing the tooth, or teeth, will remove the evil in many cases. GASES. It would be endless to give histories of cases exemplifying each symptom of dentition : I shall only relate a few which are singular, and which, being extraordinary, will the better enforce the propriety, in all cases, of the cure I have recommended. Case I.—A young child was attacked with contractions of the flexor muscles of the fingers, and also of the toes. These contractions were so considerable as to keep her fingers and thumb constantly clenched, and so irregularly that they appeared distorted. All the common anti- spasmodic medicines were given, and continued for several months, but without success. I scarified the gums down to the teeth, and in less than half an hour all the contractions had ceased. This, however, only gave relief for a time. The gums healed; the teeth continued to grow, and filled up the new space acquired by the scarifications; and the same symptoms appeared a second time. The former operation was immediately performed, and with the same success. Case II.—A boy, about two years of age, was taken with a pain and difficulty in making water, and voided matter from the urethra. I suspected that, by some means or other, this child might possibly be affected by the venereal poison; and the suspicion naturally fell on the nurse. These complaints sometimes abated, and would go off altogether, and then return again. It was observed at last that they returned only upon his cutting a new tooth. This happened so often, regularly and constantly, that there was no reason to doubt that it was owing to that cause. Case III.—A lady, about the age of five or six and twenty years, was attacked with a violent pain in the upper jaw, which at last ex- tended through the whole side of the face, similar to a violent tooth- ache from a cold, and was attended with consequent fever.