356 OF BUBO. f rhoea, as does the hernia humoralis. But when the same appears some months after that was removed, we are to suppose, as in cases of other poisons laying hold of the blood, by the strength of Nature it is thrown forth, either by means of the lymphatics of the blood-vessels themselves, if not spewed out of the nervous tubes, as Wharton surmised, and de- posited in these emunctories.” Here he compares it to the formation of a hernia humoralis, which plainly shows that he understood neither of them. Even so late as the year 1748, we do not find any new ideas on this subject: Freke says, “By sealing up the mouths of the glands of the urethra, the poison is thence, by the ducts leading to the inguinal * glands, conveyed to them.” In the year 1754, eight years after Dr. Hunter had publicly taught his opinion of the lymphatics being a system of absorbents, we find a treatise on this disease by Mr. Gataker, where as little new is advanced on this subject as in any of the former. When we come so low down as the year 1770, in an abridgement of Astruc, by Dr. Chapman, (2nd edit.) in which he introduces his own knowledge and ideas, we find the absorbing power of the lymphatics brought in as a cause of the formation of buboes ; but by this time the knowledge of the lymphatics being the system of absorbents was in this country generally diffused. The doctrine of absorption being now perfectly understood, we have only to explain the different modes in which it may take place. The venereal matter is taken up by the absorbents of the part in which it is placed; and although the absorption of the matter and the effects after absorption are the same, whether from the matter of the gonorrhoea or chancre, yet I shall divide the absorption into three kinds, according to the three different surfaces from which the matter may be absorbed, beginning with the least frequent. The first and most simple is where the matter either of a gonorrhoea or chancre has only been applied to some sound surface, without hav- ing produced any local effect on the part, but has been absorbed imme- diately upon its application. Instances of this I have seen in men, and such are perhaps the only instances that can be depended upon; for it is uncertain in many cases whether a woman has a gonorrhoea or not. I think however I may venture to affirm that I have seen it in women, or at least there was every reason to believe that they had neither chancre nor gonorrhoea preceding, as there was no local appearance of it, nor did they communicate it to others who had connexion with them. It must be allowed that this mode of absorption is very rare; and if we were to examine the parts very carefully, or inquire of the patients