OF CHANCRE. 341 and more so than if they could be conveniently and freely applied ex- ternally. However, even in such cases, internal mercurials will in the end effect a cure, so that we need seldom if ever be under any appre- hension of not curing such a disease. In every case of a chancre, let it be ever so slight, mercury should be given internally, even in those cases where they were destroyed on their first appearance. It should in all cases be given the whole time of the cure, and continued for some time after the chancres are healed; for as there are perhaps few chancres without absorption of the matter, it becomes absolutely necessary to give mercury to act internally, in order to hinder the venereal disposition from forming*. How much mercury should be thrown into the constitution in the cure of a chancre, for the prevention of that constitutional affection, is not easily ascertained; as there is in such cases no disease actually formed so as to be a guide, it must be uncertain what quantity should be given internally. It must in general be according to the size, num- ber, and duration of the chancres. If large, we may suppose that the absorption will be proportioned to the surface, and if long continued, the absorption will be according to the time; and if they have been many, large, and continued long, then the greatest quantity is necessary. The circumstances therefore attending the chancre must be the guide for the safety of the constitution, especially in those cases where some stress in the cure is laid upon the external remedy. The mercury gi^en to act internally must be thrown in either by the «kin or stomach, according to circumstances. The quantity in either way should be such as may in common affect the mouth slightly, which method of giving mercury will be considered hereafter. When the sore has put on a healthy look, when the hard basis has be- come soft, and it has skinned over kindly, it may be looked upon as cured. But in very large chancres it may not always be necessary to con- tinue the application of mercury either for external or internal action till the sore is healed; for the venereal action is just as soon destroyed in a large chancre as it is in a small one, for every part of the chancre being equally affected by the mercury, is equally easily cured. But the skinning is different; for a large sore is longer in skinning than a small * Added: “ When chancres are attended with a great degree of inflammation and swelling of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, there are peculiarities in the constitution which are unfavourable to the use of mercury; it should therefore in such cases be used with caution, and joined with such remedies as will make it less irritating to the constitution.”—Home.