OF BUBO. 368 CHAPTER IV. GENERAL REFLECTIONS ON THE CURE OF BUBOES. From what has been offered on the history of buboes, it will be needless here to enter into a discussion of the opinion of their being a deposit from the constitution, and of the conclusion drawn from this opinion, that they ought not to be dispersed ; for according to this theory, to dis- perse them would be to throw the venereal matter upon the constitution. But if this were really the case, then there would be no occasion for the use of mercury, provided that the bubo be allowed to proceed, as it would prove its own cure ; but even those who were of this opinion were not satisfied with the cure which they supposed Nature had pointed out, but gave mercury, and in very large quantities. From the same history of a bubo I have also endeavoured to show that there are several buboes which are not in the least venereal, but scrofulous; and that there are also buboes which appear to be only in part venereal, or perhaps only a gland disposed to scrofula, brought into action by the venereal irritation, similar to what happens often from the matter of the smallpox in in- oculation. Therefore, prior to the speaking of the method of cure the true venereal bubo is to be distinguished from the others, if possible. When it is well ascertained to be venereal, resolution is certainly to be attempted, if the bubo be in a state of inflammation only. The pro- priety of the attempt depends upon the progress which the disease has made. If it be very large, and suppuration appears to be near at hand, it is probable that resolution cannot be effected ; and if suppuration has taken place, I should very much doubt the probability of success, and an attempt might now possibly only retard the suppuration, and pro- tract the cure. The resolution of these inflammations depends principally upon mer- cury, and almost absolutely upon the quantity that can be made to pass through them ; and the cure of them, if allowed to come to suppuration, depends upon the same circumstances. The quantity of mercury that can be made to pass through a bubo depends principally upon the quan- tity of external surface for absorption beyond the bubo. Mercury is to be applied in the most advantageous manner; that is, to those surfaces by an absorption from which it may pass through the diseased gland; for the disease there being destroyed, the constitution