300 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. latation of the ureters and pelvis is really owing to a mechanical cause I am not so clear, or whether it is not a disposition for dilatation arising out of the stimulus given by the bladder. In some cases of long stand- ing, where the bladder was become very thick, and had been for a long time acting with great violence, it had affected the mamillse, so that the surface of these processes produced a matter, and perhaps even the se- creting organs of the kidneys, so that the urine secreted was accom- panied with a pus, arising from the irritation being kept up in all these parts. The urine in the above cases is generally stale, even before it is thrown out of the bladder, which when joined with the circumstance of the linen being constantly kept wet, by the almost continual discharge of urine, becomes very offensive, and it is hardly possible to keep the patient sweet. ยง. 4. Of Irritability in the Bladder independent of Obstructions to the Passage of the Urine. Another disease of the bladder, connected with the present subject, is, where that viscus becomes extremely irritable, and will not allow of its usual distention. The symptoms of this disease are very similar to those arising from obstructions to the passage of the urine in the ure- thra, but with this difference, that in the present disease the urine flows readily, because the urethra obeys the summons and relaxes; howrever, there is often considerable straining, after the water is all voided, aris- ing from the muscular coat of the bladder still continuing its contrac- tions. This irritability of the bladder often arises from local causes, as a stone, cancer, or tumours forming on the inside, all which produce irri- tability of this viscus. In such cases the straining is violent, for the cause still remains which continues to give the stimulus of something to be expelled, and the bladder continues to contract till tired, as in the cases of simple irritability, and then there is a respite for a time; but this respite is of short duration, for the urine is soon accumulated. This disease will in the end be fatal by producing hectic fever. ยง.5. Of the Cure of simple Irritability of the Bladder. When the symptoms arise from irritability alone, and not from a stone or any local affection, the nature of the complaint may not at first