414 OF THE LUES VENEREA. and when it has been, as it were, sticking in this passage, it has ap- peared like a foul ulcer. The most puzzling stage of the complaint is when the slough is come out, for then it has most of the characters of the venereal ulcer ; but when I have seen the disease in its first stages I have always treated it as of the erysipelatous kind, or as something of the nature of a carbuncle. When I have seen them in their second stage only I have been apt to suppose them venereal: however, no man will be so rash as to pro- nounce what a disease is from the eye only, but will make inquiries into all the circumstances before he forms a judgment. If there have been no preceding local symptoms within the proper date he will suspend his judgment, and wait a little to see how far Nature is able to relieve her- self. If there has been any preceding fever, it will be still less probable that it is venereal. However, I will not say of what nature such cases are, but only that they are not venereal as they are often believed to be. I have seen a sore throat of this kind mistaken for venereal, and mercury given till it affected the mouth, which when it did, it brought on a mortification on all .the parts concerned in the first disease. It would therefore appear that this species of the sore throat is aggravated by mercury. There is another complaint of those parts which is often taken for venereal, which is an ulcerous excoriation, where the ulceration or ex- coriations run along the surface of the parts, becoming very broad, and sometimes foul, having a regular termination, but never going deep into the substance of the parts, as the venereal ulcer does. There is no part of the inside of the mouth exempted from this ulcerous excoriation, but I think it is most frequent about the root of the uvula, and spreads for- wards along the palatum molle. That such are not venereal is evident, from their not giving way in general to mercury ; and I have seen them continue for weeks without altering, and a true venereal ulcer appear upon the centre of the excoriated part. The difference between the two is so strong that there can be no mis- take ; patients have gone through a course of mercury which has per- fectly cured the venereal ulcers, but has had no effect upon the others, which have afterwards been cured by bark. The true venereal ulcer in the throat is perhaps the least liable to be mistaken of any of the forms of the disease. It is a fair loss of substance, part being dug out, as it were, from the body of the tonsil, with a de- termined edge, and is commonly very foul, having thick white matter adhering to it like a slough, which cannot be washed away. Ulcers in such situations are always kept moist, the matter not being allowed to dry and form scabs, as in those upon the skin; the matter is