201 OF GONORRHOEA. almost immediately. The practice, however, ought to be attempted with caution, and not, perhaps, till milder methods have failed. Two grains of corrosive sublimate, dissolved in eight ounces of distilled water, are nearly as good an injection as any of the kind. But an in- jection of only half this strength may be used where it is not intended to attempt a cure so quickly. If, however, the injection, even in that proportion, gives considerable pain in its application, or if it occasions a great increase of pain in making water, it should be diluted. Sedative injections will always be of service in cases where the in- flammation is considerable, not by lessening the disease itself, but by les- sening the diseased action, which always allows the natural actions of the part more readily to take place. They are likewise very useful in re- lieving the painful feelings of the patient. Perhaps the best sedative we have is opium, as well when given by the mouth or anus, as when applied to the part affected in the form of an injection. But even opium will not agree, or act as a sedative, in all constitutions or parts. On the contrary, it has often opposite effects, producing great irritability. Lead may be reckoned a sedative, so far as it abates inflammation, while at. the same time it may act as a gentle astringent. Fourteen grains of saccliarum saturni, in eight ounces of distilled water, make a good sedative astringent injection. The drinking freely of diluting liquors may, perhaps, be considered as having a sedative effect, as it in part removes some of the causes of irritation, rendering the urine less stimulating, either to the bladder, when the irritation is there, or to the urethra in its passage through it; and it is possible that diluting may lessen the susceptibility of irritation. The vegetable mucilages of certain seeds and plants, and the emollient gums, are recommended; but I suspect that this practice is founded on a mechanical notion, and that none of them are of much service. I be- lieve the advantage arises chiefly from the quantity of water that is drunk, and that if the water be joined with anything, spirits excepted, that can induce the patient to drink freely, the purpose is fully an- swered. I have, however, been informed by some patients, that they have thought that when the liquids they drank have been impregnated with mucilaginous substances, they have had less uneasiness in making water. Emollient injections are the projDerest applications where the inflam- mation is very great. They are most probably useful by first simply washing away the matter, and then leaving a soft application to the part, in which way I can conceive them to be of singular service, by lessening the irritating effects of the urine. Indeed practice proves this, for we often find that a solution of gum arabic, milk and water, or sweet