OF THE LUES VENEREA. 416 When it attacks the tongue it sometimes produces a thickening and hardness in the part; but this is not always the case, for it very often ulcerates, as in the other parts of the mouth. They are generally more painful than those of the skin, although not so much so as common sore throats arising from inflamed tonsils. They oblige the person to speak thick, or as if his tongue was too large for his mouth, with a small degree of snuffling. These are the most common symptoms of this stage of the disease, sloughing, but by rapid ulceration. The aspect is less formidable, but the progress is scarcely less destructive. This variety is most commonly seen on the soft palate. The surface is foul, but the slough which occupies it is of little depth. The sore is edged by a very narrow fringe of yellow slough, and beyond this, for the extent of a quarter of an inch, there is an inflamed margin of a deep crimson colour; but there is not much general swelling of the surrounding parts. Yet the sore extends daily with extraordi- nary rapidity. The substance of the part seems to melt away under the ulceration, and the greater part or the whole of the soft palate is often destroyed before it can be arrested, though no distinct slough can be seen to separate through the whole of its course. These ulcers frequently accompany rupia. 3. A third appearance, which is shortly described by John Hunter under the name of an ulcerous excoriation, is of very common occurrence. It is distinguished by the opake white colour of the surface. This appearance sometimes supervenes at the edges of an ulcer on the tonsil. More frequently there is no ulceration, but simply this change of the surface, accompanied by more or less of redness, and, as it were, of excori- ation of the neighbourhood, more or less swelling of the membrane, much soreness, but very little pain. This superficial affection may attack any part of the tonsils, arches of the palate, velum pendulum, and uvula, and even the tongue or the inside of the cheeks. It is very frequently to be seen at the angles of the mouth. It often occupies the soft palate, spreading upwards in a semicircular form towards the roof of the mouth. The white appearance may be removed by slightly touching it with caustic, and then the surface beneath looks as if excoriated. This complaint very often accompanies psoriasis of the skin, and it is reasonable to suppose that the white colour which peculiarly characterizes it implies a change analo- gous to that which shows itself on the surface of the body in thickening of the cuticle and scaliness. The author seems to be of opinion that this affection is never venereal; but cases occur where it exists in union with other venereal symptoms, and where it is only ulti- mately cured by the use of mercury. Yet it cannot be denied, that in the majority of cases it is not venereal; that very often mercury aggravates instead of removing it; that it may take place where there is no suspicion of syphilis, in patients labouring under psoriasis or lepra; and that in general the presumption is so far against its venereal origin that the treatment should be rather directed to the regulation of the diet, and to the prevention of acid secretions in the stomach, than to the extirpation of the venereal virus. The complaint is in this respect also analogous to scaly diseases of the skin. Both affections depend most usually on causes which are not syphilitic ; nor do there ap- pear to be any signs in the aspect of either by which the syphilitic can be distinguished from the non-syphilitic cases. There are other forms of sore throat which are less important, and of which it is less easy to convey an idea by description.]