DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 475 past taken two hundred and forty drops of laudanum and six grains of opium daily. These sores healed up, and others broke out in different parts of the head, which also got well; and in June, 1785, there was only one large ulcer in the angle of the right eye.” A lady was delivered of a child on the 30th of September, 1776. The infant being weakly, and the quantity of milk in the mother’s breasts abundant, it was judged proper to procure the child of a person in the neighbourhood to assist in keeping the breasts in a proper state. It is worthy of remark that the lady kept her own child to the right breast, the stranger to the left. In about six weeks the nipple of the left breast began to inflame, and the glands of the axilla to swell. A few days after, several small ulcers were formed about the nipple, which, spreading rapidly, soon communicated and became one ulcer, and at last the whole nipple was destroyed. The tumour in the axilla subsided, and the ulcer in the breast healed in about three months from its first appearance. On inquiry, about this time, the child of the stranger was found to be short-breathed, had the thrush, and died tabid, with many sores on different parts of the body. The patient now complained of shooting pains in different parts of the body, which were succeeded by an eruption on the arms, legs, and thighs, many of which became ulcers. She was now put under a mercurial course, with a decoction of sar- saparilla. Mercury was tried in a variety of forms : in solution, in pills internally, and externally in the form of ointment. It could not be con- tinued above a few days at a time, as it always brought on fever or purg- ing, with extreme pain in the bowels. In this state she remained till March 16, 1779, when she was delivered of another child in a diseased state. This child was committed to the care of a wetnurse, and lived about nine wreeks ; the cuticle peeling off in various parts, and a scabby eruption covering the whole body. The child died. Soon after the death of the child, the nurse complained of headache and sore throat, together with ulceration of the breasts. Various reme- dies were given to her, but she determined to go into a public hospital, where she was salivated, and after some months she was discharged, but not cured of the disease. The bones of the nose and palate exfoliated, and in a few months she also died tabid. Of the various remedies tried by the lady herself, none succeeded so well as sea-bathing. About the month of May she began a course of the Lisbon diet-drink, and continued it with regularity about a month, dressing the sores with laudanum, by which treatment the sores healed up ; and in September she was delivered of another child, free from external marks of disease, but very sickly; and it died in the course of the month.