OF THE DISEASES 102 Of the immediate Fastening of a transplanted Tooth. When a tooth has been transplanted, the next thing to be done is to fix it in that position in which it is intended to remain, that is, in general, to the two neighbouring teeth, by means of silk or sea-weed. If it is an incisor or cuspidatus, the silk should first be tied to the neck of one of the neighbouring teeth, as near the gum as possible; then the two ends of the silk should be brought round upon the body of the scion tooth, but not so near the gum as in the former, and tied there; then it should be brought round the neck of the other neighbouring tooth, as near the gum as possible, as in the first, and tied there. The reason of the difference of the heights of the silk recommended must appear evident, it being our intention to keep the tooth close to the bottom of the socket. If the transplanted tooth be a bicuspis, the same mode of tying may be followed; but the silk may be brought over its grinding surface be- tween the two points, by which it will be better confined than in any other way. It sometimes happens that the body of the scion tooth is either too long, too thick, or in such a position as to be pressed upon by the teeth of the opposite jaw. Great care should be taken to pre- vent this, as the opposite teeth constantly oppose the fastening of those which are transplanted, in every motion of the jaw. To remedy this inconvenience, we have recommended smaller teeth than those lost; but even when they are of a proper size in other respects they will in some cases still touch the opposite teeth. When this arises from length of the tooth, a small portion may be filed off from the cutting edge with great safety. If it is owing to the thickness of the scion tooth, and in the upper jaw, some part may be filed off the hollow or concave surface of the tooth directly opposed to it. When it is owing to the position of the teeth, the same thing may be done with propriety. By at- tending to this circumstance in the tying, this inconvenience may in many cases be prevented: however, if it should not be in the power of the dentist to prevent it by the above-mentioned method, then he should bring them forwards by tying them to a silver plate, a little more bent than the circle of the teeth, and resting at each end upon the neighbour- ing teeth. Where a tooth does not exactly fit, but is too short, then there arises a difficulty with the patient whether he ought to consult propriety or beauty. The tooth should be as much in the socket as it can be with ease, for although in that case it is too short, appearances must give way.