213 OF GONORRHOEA. In the history of this disease I observed, and indeed it has been ob- served by most writers, that when a swelling comes upon the testicle in consequence of a gonorrhoea the running ceases, or when the running ceases the testicle swells ; but which is the cause, or which is the effect, has not yet been ascertained. It has been also observed that when the running returns, the testicle then shows the first symptoms of recovery ; so that the testicle having lost its sympathising action, the action is re- stored to the urethra. And here also it has not yet been ascertained which is the cause or which is the effect; but, from a supposition that the cessation of the discharge in the urethra is the cause of the swelling, it has been attributed to the mode of treatment of that irritation, and by some to injections. It has been advised by many, and attempted by some, to procure a return of the running ; but the methods used have hardly been founded upon any sound principle. Mr. Bromfield appears to have been the first who recommended a treatment suitable to this theory, which was to irri- tate the urethra to suppuration again, by introducing bougies. I have not seen that benefit that could have been wished, or that the first idea might induce us to expect, from this practice. Some have gone further, by recommending the introduction of venereal matter into the urethra; but this appears to be only conceit, and is founded upon a supposition that such swellings arise only from venereal irritations. But I have already observed that they are produced by other causes. It is generally a long time before the swelling of the testicle entirely subsides, although it does so more quickly at first than swellings of this part arising from other causes. Before it becomes less, it generally be- comes softer, commonly on the anterior surface; and by degrees the whole becomes perhaps softer than natural, and then it diminishes. It is still much longer (sometimes even years) before the epididymis re- turns to its natural state ; sometimes it is never reduced to its natural size and softness. However, this is of no great consequence, as no in- convenience results from a continuance of the hardness simply ; though sometimes, perhaps, such testicles are rendered totally useless. I never had an opportunity of examining the testicle of one that was known to have this complaint; but have examined testicles where the epididymis has had the same external feel, and where the canal of the vas deferens has been obliterated. But this, I suspect too, seldom happens, for there are people who have both testicles swelled, and, notwithstanding, dis- charge their semen as before.a a [The hardness which is left after inflammation of the testicle does not appear in most instances to interfere with its functions. The obliteration of the vas deferens is not a frequent occurrence: and the induration which often remains in the epididymis,