145 OF THE VENEREAL POISON. the disease to Bougainville ; and we can hardly suppose that they would be so complaisant to our countrymen as to accuse Bougainville, when they must have known whether the disease was imported by Wallis or not, especially as they had no reason to be partial in favour of the people who accompanied the latter. But as we find in Cook’s last voyage that the disease in every form is now there, and as we have no new intelli- gence of a gonorrhoea being since introduced, we must suppose that every form of the disease has been propagated from one root, which most probably was a gonorrhoea. If any doubt still remain with respect to the two diseases being of the same nature, it will be removed by considering that the matter produced in both is of the same kind, and has the same properties : the proofs of which are, that the matter of a gonorrhoea will produce either a gonor- rhoea, a chancre, or the lues venerea; and the matter of a chancre will also produce either a gonorrhoea, a chancre, or the lues venerea*. The following case is an instance of a gonorrhoea producing a lues venerea. A gentleman twice contracted a gonorrhoea, of which he was cured both times without mercury. About two months after each, he had symptoms of the lues venerea. Those in consequence of the first infection were ulcers in the throat, which were removed by the external application of mercury; the symptoms in consequence of the second were blotches on the skin, for which also he used the mercurial oint- ment, and was cured. With regard to the lues venerea proceeding from chancres, instances occur so frequently to every one’s observation as to require no further proof here. Since, then, it appears that the gonorrhoea and chancre are the effects of the same poison, it may be worthy of inquiry to what circumstances two such different forms of the disease are owing. To account for these two very different effects of the same poison, it is only necessary to observe the difference in the mode of action of the parts affected when irritated, let the irritation be what it may. The gonorrhoea always proceeds from a secreting surfacef, and the chancre * The following paragraph is here inserted : “ That chancre is sometimes the consequence of gonorrhoea is rendered probable by the following case : A. B. had a gonorrhoea about the beginning of January 1788 ; the inflammation went off, the discharge continued : about a month after, a chancre appeared on the glans penis, for which he took mercury, and it got well in about a month.”— Home- f By secreting surfaces I mean all the passages for extraneous matter, including also the ducts of glands, such as the mouth, nose, eyes, anus, and urethra; and by non- secreting surfaces, the external skin in general. To which I may add a third kind of surface, leading from the one to the other, as the glans penis, prolabium of the mouth, the inside of the lips, the pudendum; which surfaces, partaking of the properties of each, VOL. II. L