OF THE LUES VENEREA. 447 without the assistance of a grain of mercury. Blisters have been ap- plied to nodes with success ; they have removed the pains and diminished the swellings ; so far furnishing a proof that local treatment may assist mercury in many cases. This treatment has not only been used to assist mercury in those cases where the medicine did not appear to be equal to the disease, but it has been used at the commencement of the cure, and even before mercury had been applied; but it was still thought necessary to go through the same mercurial course as if nothing had been done to the local com- plaints. It may be asked, What advantage arises from the incision or appli- cation of the blister ? The advantage is immediate relief from violent pains; and as there are two powers acting, it is natural to suppose the cure will be more speedy. After all the above-mentioned trials, it may happen that the local ef- fects shall still remain, forming as it were a new disease, which mercury may increase, and therefore other methods of cure may be tried, as will be described hereafter. §.8. Of Abscesses—Exfoliation. When an abscess forms in a node in the periosteum the bones are ge- nerally affected, and make part of the abscess. Great attention should be paid to them, for suppurations in them are not like suppurations in common abscesses ; they are seldom produced from the true suppurative inflammation, and therefore are slow in their progress, rarely producing true matter, but a mucus, something resembling slime, which lies flat upon the bone. This circumstance makes it difficult to determine when suppuration has taken place, and in many cases to detect matter, even where it is formed. Another circumstance, which renders the presence of matter in such cases doubtful, is, that the progress of the disease is generally checked very early by the use of mercury. This matter is often reabsorbed during a mercurial course, and it is proper, particularly in an early state of the complaint, to give it this chance; but if the ab- sorption does not take place, and the complaint is in an advanced state, it must be opened. The surgical treatment of the parts under such circumstances is the same as in other diseases of these parts ; opening with great freedom is absolutely necessary ; for the more parts are exposed, the more inclin- able they are in general to heal, and still more so here ; for violence as- sists in destroying the venereal disposition. No skin covering a bone should be removed from an abscess, especially in the lower extremities.