OP CHANCRE. 336 passage for the water. If the passage in the prepuce so contracted be in a direct line with the orifice of the urethra, then a bougie may be readily passed; but this is not always the case : it often happens that they are not in a direct line, therefore an operation becomes necessary. The operation consists in either slitting up part of the prepuce, or re- moving part of it; but as these parts have become very indistinct from the adhesions, either the slitting it up, or removing part of it, becomes a difficult operation. Whenever the urethra is discovered, or can be found out by a bougie, that is to be introduced, and its application re- peated till the passage becomes free, and has got into the habit of keep- ing so. I observed formerly that this tumefaction sometimes produced a con- finement of the matter formed by the chancre, and that while this effect lasted no subsiding of the inflammation or tumefaction could take place ; that therefore those diseases continued to exist, and that the part thus circumstanced came under our definition of an abscess ; that is, the for- mation of matter in a state of confinement. Although it never has been considered in this light, yet the necessary treatment shows it to be such. This consists in laying it open from the external orifice to the bottom where the matter lies, as in a sinus, so as to discharge it. How- ever, the intention annexed to this practice was not to allow of the dis- charge of the matter of the sore, but to admit of the applications of dressings to it, for it has been recommended and practised where there was no particular confinement of matter, which I have not found to be necessary merely for that purpose, as we are in possession of an inter- nal remedy; and if the opening produces no other good but the allow- ing of the application of dressings, it is not so material, because the sores may be washed with an injection through a syringe. ยง. 4. Of the common Operation for the Phimosis produced hy Chancres. The common operation for the phimosis is slitting the prepuce nearly its whole length, in the direction of the penis; but even this is some- times thought not sufficient, and it is directed to cut the prepuce in two different places, nearly opposite to one another. When it was thought proper to be done in this way, it was imagined that it was seldom ne- cessary to cut the whole length of the prepuce. It will in some degree depend on circumstances which practice is to be followed. If it is a natural phimosis without tumefaction, and the chancre is near the ori- fice of the prepuce, which in such cases it most probably will be, as the