434 OF THE LUES VENEREA. as the mouth and the intestines, are sometimes much more violent than its general effect upon the constitution at large ; therefore a certain degree of caution is necessary not to stimulate these parts too quickly, as that will prevent the necessary quantity being given. The constitution, or parts, are more susceptible of mercury at first than afterwards: if the mouth is made sore, and allowed to recover, a much greater quantity may be thrown in a second time, before the same soreness is produced; and indeed I have seen cases where it could not be reproduced by as much mercury as possibly could be thrown in. Upon a renewal of the course of mercury therefore the same precau- tions are not necessary as at first. We are, however, every now and then deceived by this medicine, it being hardly possible to produce visible effects at one time ; and afterwards the mouth and intestines shall all at once be affected. Mercury, when it falls on the mouth, produces in many constitutions violent inflammation, which sometimes terminates in mortification. The constitutions in which this happens I suspect are of the erysipelatous kind, or what are called the putrid; therefore in such greater caution is necessary. Mercury in general, that is, where it only produces its common effects, seldom or never does any injury to the constitution; it should seem only to act for the time, and to leave the constitution in a healthy state. But this is not always the case, for probably mercury can be made to affect every constitution very materially, being capable of producing local diseases, as has been mentioned, and also capable of retarding the cure of chancres, buboes, and certain effects of the lues venerea, after the poison has been destroyed. ยง.3. Of the sensible Effects of Mercury upon Parts. The sensible effects of mercury are generally an increase of some of the secretions, a swelling in the salivary glands, and increase of saliva; an increase of the secretion of the bowels, which produces purging, and an increase of the secretion of the skin, producing sweat, also often an increase of the secretion of urine. Sometimes one of these secretions only is affected, sometimes more, and sometimes all of them together; but the effects upon the mouth are the most frequent. Mercury often produces headaches, and also costiveness, when its ac- tion on other parts becomes sensible, especially upon the glands of the mouth. When the mercury falls upon the mouth, it does not affect all parts of it equally, sometimes attacking the gums, at other times the cheeks.