OF TITE DISEASES 96 can be made saves any pain in the whole of the operation, I should cer- tainly recommend it; and at least, in some cases, it might prevent the gum from being torn. It is also a common practice to close the gum, as it is termed: this is more for show than use; for the gum cannot be made so close as to unite by the first intention, and therefore the cavity from which the tooth came must suppurate like every other wound. But, as the sensations of these parts are adapted to such a loss, and as a process very different from that which follows the loss of so much substance in any other part of the body is to take place, the consequent inflammations and suppurations are not so violent*. We may be allowed to call this a natural operation which goes on in the gum and alveoli, and not a violence ; as we see that the delivery of a young animal before its time, which is similar to the drawing of a fixed tooth, in happening before all the containing parts are prepared for the loss, produces considerable local violence, without doing pro- portionable mischief. Therefore in general it is very unnecessary to do anything at all to the gum. There are some particular circumstances which naturally, and others which accidentally, attend and follow the drawing of teeth; but they are in general of no great consequence. There follows a bleeding from the vessels of the socket and those passing between it and the teeth f. This commonly is but trifling; however, instances have occurred where it has been very considerable, and the awkwardness of the situation makes it very difficult to stop it. In general it will be sufficient to stuff the socket with lint, or lint dipped in the oil of turpentine, and to apply a compress of lint, or a piece of cork thicker than the bodies of the adjacent teeth, so that the teeth in the opposite jaw may keep up a pressure. It has been advised to stuff into the socket some soft wax, on a sup- position that it would mould itself to the cavity, and so stop the bleed- ing ; this perhaps may sometimes answer better than the other method, and therefore should be tried when that fails. It is scarcely possible to draw some teeth without breaking the alve- olar processes. This in general is but of little consequence, because, from the nature of the union between the teeth and sockets, these last can scarcely be broken further than the points of the fang, and in very few cases so far; therefore little mischief can ensue, as the fracture ex- tends no further than the part of the socket which will naturally decay after the loss of the tooth; and that part which does not decay will be filled up as a basis for the gum to rest upon. It has been supposed that * Vide Natural History, on decay of the Alveoli, p. 4. f Natural History, pp. 19, 20, PI. VIII. f. 1—S.