205 OF GONORRHOEA. distance. Many medicines which might be of service in another con- stitution will often prove hurtful here, in so much as to increase the very symptoms which they were meant to relieve. I have seen even opiate clysters, though they relieved at first, yet in the end produce or increase fever, and by that means increase all the symptoms. I have seen the balsam capivi, given in such cases, increase the inflammatory symptoms, probably by stopping the discharge in part, which appears to be salu- tary. The treatment of such a constitution, when affected with this disease, consists chiefly in evacuations, the best of which are bleeding and gentle purging. To live sparingly, and above all to use little ex- ercise, is necessary; for although such a treatment does not lessen the venereal irritation, yet it lessens the violence of the inflammation, and allows the parts to relieve themselves. In this kind of constitution, therefore, the disease is in the end soonest cured, as there is not a ten- dency to a continued inflammation. In the weak and irritable constitution the symptoms are frequently very violent, arising from great action in the parts, and often extend beyond the specific distance, the inflammation running along the ure- thra, and even affecting the bladder. Instead of evacuations, which would rather aggravate the symptoms than relieve them, the constitu- tion should be strengthened, and thus it will be less susceptible of irri- tation in general. I have seen patients, whose constitutions were such that they were never sure of twenty-four hours’ health, where the inflammation has been both considerable and extensive. I have seen evacuations tried, and the symptoms increased; but as soon as the bark was given freely they have become almost immediately mild, and without using any other medicine the patients have soon recovered. The medicine here acted upon the constitution, destroyed the irritability, gave the parts a true and healthy sense of the venereal irritation, and brought the in- flammation to that state in which it ought to be in a healthy subject, whereby the constitution was enabled to cure itself. „ So capricious sometimes is this form of the disease in its cure, that the accession of an accidental fever has stopped the discharge, the pain in making water has ceased, and the gonorrhoea has finally terminated with the fever. In others I have seen all the symptoms of the gonor- rhoea cease on the accession of a fever, and return when the fever has been subdued. In some I have seen a gonorrhoea begin mildly, but a severe fever coming on, and continuing for several days, has greatly in- creased the symptoms, and on the fever going off the gonorrhoea has also gone off. Although a fever does not always cure a gonorrhoea, yet, as it possibly may, nothing should be done while the fever lasts ; and if