184 OF GONORRHOEA. pears to have more of the true inflammatory action, we find that the re- moval of the inflammation and tumefaction takes place more rapidly than when proceeding from other causes. A swelled testicle in consequence of the radical cure of the hydrocele does not subside after inflammation is gone, in as many weeks, as the swelled testicle in consequence of its sympathy with other parts, does in days; and probably the reason of this is, that it arises from sympathy, for an inflammation arising from real disease in a part, or from an external injury, as in the hydrocele, must always last either till the disease be removed, or the injury repaired; but that from sympathy will vary as the cause varies, which may hap- pen very quickly, for we find a testicle swell in a few minutes, and in as little time subside; and also the swelling move suddenly from one tes- ticle to the other. These sympathies are often peculiar to constitutions, and even to temporary constitutions, in so much as to be in some de- gree epidemic, for there is often such an influence in the atmosphere as predisposes the body to this kind of irritation, and bodies so predisposed require only the immediate cause to produce the effect. §. 12. Of the Diseases of the Lymphatics in a Gonorrhoea. Another symptom, which sometimes takes place in gonorrhoea, is a hard chord leading from the prepuce along the back of the penis, and often directing its course to one of the groins, and affecting the glands. There is most commonly a swelling in the prepuce at the part where the chord takes its rise. This happens sometimes when there is an ex- coriation and discharge from the prepuce or glans, which may be called a venereal gonorrhoea of these parts. Both the swelling in the groin, and the hard chord, we have reason to suppose arise from the absorp- tion of pus, and therefore that they are the first steps towards a lues venerea; but as that form of the disease seldom happens from a gonor- rhoea, I shall not take any further notice of it in this place. However, I may remark, that from this observation of the lues venerea being sel- dom produced from a gonorrhoea, it should appear that a whole surface, or one only inflamed, does not readily admit of the absorption of the venereal poison; and therefore, although the venereal matter lies for many weeks in the passage, and over the whole glans, it seldom hap- pens that any absorption takes place*. I have seen a case where blood * Added: “ As a further proof that these chords often arise from an inflammatory excoriation and tumefaction of the prepuce, a gentleman had a chancre on the right side, at the root of the prepuce, close to the penis, besides which there was an excoria- tion of the penis everywhere, with a thickening of that part. Although the chancre