OF THE DISEASES 9S who is to have the fresh tooth. If the tooth which is to be removed he not wholly diseased, there is great probability that the socket will be as sound and complete as ever ; but if the body of the tooth has been destroyed some time, and the fang has been in the state of what is com- monly called a stump, it has most probably begun to decay on its outer surface and point, in which case the socket will be filled up in the same proportion; if so, there is no possibility of success. But as, in the operation of transplanting, the diseased tooth is to be first drawn, it will show the state of the socket; and the scion* tooth is to be left or drawn, according to the appearance on the diseased one. If the appearance be not favourable, and it therefore be not probable that the scion tooth can be introduced, so as to unite in the place of the stump, I would recommend to every dentist to have some dead teeth at hand, that he may have a chance to fit the socket. I have known these sometimes last for years, especially when well supported by the neigh- bouring teeth. Indeed this very practice is recommended by some den- tists in preference to the other. But even this should not be attempted unless the socket is sound and pretty large, as the tooth can otherwise have but very little hold. Whenever there are gum-boils I would not recommend transplanting, as there is always in such cases a diseased socket, although the disease has originated in the tooth. In one or two instances, indeed, which I have seen, the boil has been cured by such an operation. If the gums are diseased, and become spongy, as has been described, it will be very improper to transplant, as there will be but little chance of success; also, if the sockets have a disposition to waste, and the tooth becomes in some degree loose; in short, the sockets and gums should be perfectly sound. No person should have a tooth transplanted while taking mercury, even although the gums are not affected by it at the time, for they may become affected by that medicine before the tooth is fixed. I would carry this still further: no one should have a tooth transplanted who has any complaint that may subject him to the taking of mercury before the tooth is well fixed. For this reason, those who have teeth transplanted ought particularly to avoid for some time the chance of contracting any complaint for the cure of which mercury may be necessary. I would not recommend transplanting, even where mercury has been taken lately. How soon mercury may be taken after a tooth has been transplanted is not easily ascertained. I have known it fail from this * As the transplanting of teeth is very similar to the ingrafting of trees, I thought that term might be transferred from gardening to surgery, finding no other word so expressive of the thing.