191 OF GONORRHOEA. \ woman gives the disease in this way to more than one man. The case of the woman giving the disease to two men alternately at an interval of twelve months each time*, which gives a space of at least two years for the continuance of the disease, proves that its communication is almost the only criterion of its presence. The case too of the young woman at the Magdalen Hospitalf confirms the same opinion. Yet all this does not amount to an absolute proof; for a sound woman may have had a connexion with a man who had a gonorrhoea, or a man with chancres, and soon after, that is perhaps within forty-eight hours, she may have admitted the embraces of a sound man. In such a case it is very possible that he may receive the infection from that matter which was lodged in the vagina by the unsound man, and yet the woman may not catch the disease, for the matter may be washed away before it irri- tates the vagina; and this woman may be suspected of having a gonor- rhoea, and apparently with great justice. A repetition of these circum- stances may be the cause of many women appearing to have the disease for years, without really having it. Again, I have seen a bubo come on at a time when the patient was not sensible of any disorder till that appeared. This, one would think, is an absolute proof that there may be a gonorrhoea, and the patient not be conscious of it. But even this is not altogether without fallacy; for there may have been an absorp- tion of venereal matter deposited in the vagina by some infected man, which may not have produced any irritation in that partj. CHAPTER III. OF THE EFFECTS OF THE GONORRHCEA ON THE CON- STITUTION IN BOTH SEXES. The disease I have been describing, both in men and women, is local, and generally confined to the part affected; yet it sometimes happens that the whole constitution is more or less affected by it. Thus we find, before there is any appearance of matter from the parts, that some pa- tients complain of slight rigors : these are most considerable when the * See p. 165. -f- See p. 166. t The last three sentences omitted.—Home.