226 OF GONORRHOEA. the other continuing symptoms ; it seldom lasts with the same violence, although it is often very troublesome. When this irritation is kept up with the same violence, the bladder itself may be suspected of being diseased; or it may arise from its connexion with other parts, such as the urethra, or prostate gland; for a stricture in the urethra coming on will prove the cause of its continuance, and a disease in the prostate gland will do the same. Neither of these diseases will probably follow the gonorrhoea so closely as to keep up this irritation, though perhaps they may have been taking place prior to the gonorrhoea, and so contribute to its increase and continuance, which may probably be ascertained by a history of the patient preceding the present complaint; however, before the bladder itself is attempted to be cured, a bougie should be passed, and if no stricture is found, then the prostate gland should be examined, as shall be described. When the disease is in the bladder only, I think the pain is princi- pally at the close of making water, and for a little while after. The cure of this symptom consists in opiate clysters, cicuta, bark, sea- bathing, and I should be inclined to recommend the application of a blister to the perinseum in men. How far opiate clysters can affect the bladder in women as they do in men, I am not certain. ยง. 6. Of the remaining Hardness of the Epididymis. This symptom I have observed remains long after every other sym- ptom is removed, and may continue even for life; but seldom or ever any bad consequences happen from it if the vas deferens is not rendered impervious, and not even then if it is only in one testicle, the other being equal to all the purposes of generation. As this is the case, we must at once see that no certain method of resolution is yet known. The application of the steam of hot water with camphor may be tried, especially in such cases as are not disposed to be permanent; and the scrotum may be rubbed with mercurial ointment, joined with camphor. But in most cases this practice will prove too tedious, or rather too in- efficacious to be long persisted in.