OF THE LUES VENEREA. 448 If the abscess is opened freely, and an exfoliation takes place, which \ is generally the case, it is to be treated as any other exfoliation. Ex- foliations succeed much better here than in many other cases, because the disease from which they proceed can generally be corrected, which is not the case in many diseases of bones where exfoliation takes place. Cases, however, sometimes occur in which, after the venereal disposition has been corrected, another disease takes place in the bone, the nature of which will be explained when we shall consider the effects remaining after the disease is cured, and the diseases sometimes produced by the cure. ยง.9. Of Nodes on Tendons, Ligaments, and Fascia;. The observations made on the nodes of the periosteum and bones are applicable to swellings and suppurations of the ligaments and fasciae ; but it is still more difficult to ascertain the presence of matter in them than in the former. When a thickening only of the ligaments or fasciae is the consequence of the disease, it is very obstinate, as in many cases the diseased part may be cleared of all venereal taint and still the swellings remain. Blisters may often be applied here with success; but if they fail, then it will be absolutely necessary to make an incision into the part, to ex- cite a more vigorous action ; for although the complaint has nothing ve- nereal in it, nor is any contamination to be feared from it in future, yet as it leaves often very obstinate and disagreeable swellings, which neither give way to medicine nor time, it is proper to use every means for their removal. ยง. 10. Of Correcting some of the Effects of Mercury. Formerly, when the management of mercury was not so well under- stood, nor its effects in this disease so well knowm as they are at present, it was generally supposed to act by evacuation from the salivary glands, and was therefore always given till that evacuation took place ; and, as its effects in the cure were imagined to be in proportion to the quantity of this evacuation, it was pushed as far as possible without endangering suffocation. From this treatment it often happened in those constitu- tions which were very susceptible of the mercurial irritation, and in which the medicine produced much more violent effects on some par- ticular secretions than could be wished, that recourse was obliged to be h^d to medicines correcting the effects of mercury, as these effects were