OP THE VENEREAL POISON. 156 is in many a predisposing cause, and only requires some derangement to become an immediate cause and produce the whole disease. The venereal disease also becomes often the immediate cause of other disorders, by calling forth latent tendencies to action. This does not happen from its being venereal, but from its having destroyed the na- tural actions, so that the moment the venereal action and disposition have terminated, the other takes place ; and I have seen in many cases the tendency so very strong that it has taken place before the venereal has been entirely subdued; for by pursuing the mercurial course the sym- ptoms have grown worse ; but by taking up the new disposition, and rendering it less active than the venereal, the venereal has come into action anew; and these effects have taken place alternately several times. In such cases it is a lucky circumstance when the two modes of treatment can be united; but where they act in opposition it is very unfortunate. If the venereal disease attacks the lungs, although that disposition may be corrected, consumption may ensue ; and in like man- ner where the bones are affected, or the nose, scrofulous swellings or fistula lachrymalis may be the consequence, though the disease may have been cured. Many of the diseases arising from this source appear to be peculiar to such causes, and seem to be formed out of the constitution, the dis- ease, and method of cure. It is therefore difficult to say of what nature such a disease may be; but it will in general have a particular tendency from the constitution; and if we are acquainted with the general tendency of a constitution, we are to suspect that as the strongest cause, and that the disease will partake more of it than the other. In this countiy these complaints have most commonly a scrofulous tendency, and are often truly scrofulous, the disease partaking more of that disposition than any other. Parts have also their peculiar tendency to diseases, which are stronger than those of the constitution at large, and when injured they will of course fall into the morbid action arising from such tendencies. There- * fore, when parts have had their natural actions destroyed by a venereal irritation, those tendencies will be brought into action ; and, therefore, the diseases arising from the tendencies of such parts are to be kept in view. They will be assisted likewise by local situation and age. In particular countries, and in young people, the tendency to scrofula will be predominant; therefore buboes in them will more readily become scrofulous. In old people they may form cancers; and when in parts of the body which have a particular tendency to cancer, that disease will more readily take place. The want of knowledge and of attention to this subject has been the