THE NATURAL HISTORY 10 The use of the temporal muscle, in general, is to raise the lower jaw; and as it passes a little forwards to its insertion, it must bring the con- dyle at the same time backwards, and so counteract the pterygoideus externus of the opposite side; and if both muscles act, they counteract both the pterygoidei, by bringing back the whole of the jaw. Of the Internal Pterygoid Muscle. The internal pterygoid muscle is situated upon the inside of the lower jaw, opposite to the masseter. It is a strong short muscle, a little flattened, especially at its insertion. It arises tendinous and fleshy from the whole internal surface of the external ala of the sphenoid bone; from the external surface of the internal ala, near its bottom ; from that process of the os palati that makes part of the fossa pterygoidea; like- wise from the anterior rounded surface of that process where it is con- nected to the os maxillare superius. From thence the muscle passes downwards, a little outwards and backwards, and is inserted, tendinous and fleshy, into the inside of the lower jaw, from the angle up almost to the groove for the admission of the maxillary nerve, where the sur- face of the bone is remarkably scabrous. The use of this muscle is to raise the lower jaw; and from its direc- tion, one would suspect that it would bring the condyle a little forwards ; but this motion is contrary to that of the lower jaw, for it is naturally brought back when raised. Of the External Pterygoid Muscle. The external pterygoid muscle is situated immediately between the external surface of the external ala of the pterygoid process and the condyle of the lower jaw, lying, as it were, horizontally along the basis of the skull. It is somewhat radiated in some bodies ; broad at the origin, and small at the insertion ; but the greater part of it forms a round strong fleshy belly, so that the part that makes it of the radiated kind is thin. The thick and ordinary portion of it arises, tendinous and fleshy, from almost the whole external surface of the external ala of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, excepting a little bit of the root at the posterior edge; and towards the lower part it arises a little from the inner surface of that ala. The thin portion arises from a ridge of the sphenoid that is continued from the process towards the temple, just behind the foramen lacerum infcrius, which terminates in a little pro-