238 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. The bougie should be increased in size according to the facility with which the stricture dilates, and the ease with which the patient bears the dilatation. If the parts are very firm or very irritable, the increase of the size of the bougie should be slow, gradually stealing upon the parts, and allowing them to adapt their structure to the increased size. But if the sensibility of the parts will allow of it, the increase of the size of the bougie may be somewhat quicker, though never more quick than the patient can bear with ease. The increase should be continued till a bougie of the largest size passes freely; nor should this be laid aside till after three weeks or a month, in order to habituate the dilated part to its new position, or to take off the habit of contracting from the part as much as possible. But, as was observed before, the permanency of this cure can seldom be depended upon. Instead of proceeding with the caution recommended, it has been practised with success for a time to force a common-sized bougie through a stricture that only allowed a small one to pass. This, I suppose, either tore the stricture or weakened it by stretching it suddenly so as to ren- der it unable to recover its contractile power for a considerable time after. I have seen where this has produced good effects, and for a time removed the permanent stricture and prevented spasm. This is a practice, how- ever, which I have never tried, having always preferred the mild treat- ment where I could pass a bougie. I have known the passing of the bougie remove, almost immediately, a swelling of the testicle, which had arisen from the stricture; there- fore such a symptom should not prevent the use of the bougie. In cases of strictures where the bougie is used, the patient is com- monly in other respects well, and is with difficulty persuaded to restrain from his common habits, often making too free in eating, drinking, and exercise ; which are all in many cases pernicious, more especially where inflammation and suppuration have taken place. It is, therefore, the duty of the surgeon to restrict the patient for some time within certain bounds, till he finds by trials what the parts are capable of bearing with- out producing inflammation. ยง.3. Of the Cure of Stricture by Ulceration. The cure of a stricture by means of ulceration is likewise effected by a bougie. This method may be employed both in cases where a bougie will and where it will not pass. In the first case there is not the same necessity for ulceration as in the second, because where a bougie will