SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. 293 which may not be practicable ; and if practicable, it may not be an easy matter to distinguish the one from the other, as a thickened and disten- ded bladder may seem to be a continuation of the same tumor. How- ever, if the objections given to the performing it above the pubes exist, I should prefer operating by the rectum; for although the probability of succeeding here may not be apparently greater than above the pubes, yet the chances are in its favour. I must however observe here, that the objections which I have start- ed, are only raised in my own mind from my knowledge of the diseases of those parts, and not from cases of suppression of urine under all the before-mentioned circumstances having occurred to me in practice. A case of a total suppression of urine arising from stricture, where no- instrument could be passed by the natural passage, and where a punc- ture was made into the bladder, from the rectum, with success, is re- lated in the Philosophical Transactions, by Dr. Hamilton of Kings-Lynn in Norfolk*. What led Dr. Hamilton to do it here, was a difficulty which was- found in passing the clyster-pipe into the rectum, which induced him to introduce his finger into the anus, and he found the bladder so pro- minent in the rectum as to give the hint of performing the operation there. The man was put into the same position as in the operation for the stone, and a trochar was introduced upon the finger into the anus, and thrust into the lower and most prominent part of the tumor, in the di- rection of the axis of the bladder, and upon withdrawing the piercer the water flowed out through the cannula. A straight catheter was then introduced through the cannula, lest the orifice in the bladder should be drawn off from the cannula. Then the cannula was pulled out over the catheter, which was left in till the whole water was evacuated, and was then withdrawn. The bladder, nothwithstanding this perforation, retained the water as usual, till the inclination to make it came on ; and when he performed the action of making water, the orifice in the bladder seemed to open, and it rushed out by the anus. This continued about two days, when the water began to find its natural passage, and a bougie was introduced into the bladder, through the urethra, which gave a free passage for the water, and of course less came by the anus; so that on the sixth day after the operation the whole came by the natural passage. The man continued the use of the bougie till the stricture was dilated. Dr. Hamilton further remarks, that in those cases of suppression of urine,, * Philosophical Transactions for the year 1776, vol. lxvi. p. 578.