OF THE DISEASES 92 It may not be improper, in this place, to take notice of a case which frequently occurs. It is a decay of the first adult grinder at an early age, viz. before the temporary grinders are shed, and before the second grinder of the adult has made its appearance through the gum. In this case, I would recommend removing the diseased tooth immediately, although it may occasion no kind of trouble; for, if it be drawn before the temporary grinders are shed, and before the second adult grinder has cut the gum, it will in a short time not be missed; because the bicuspis of that side wfill fall a little back, and the second and third grinders will come a little forward, by which means the space will be filled up, and these teeth will be well supported. Besides, the removal of this tooth will make room for the fore teeth, which are often very much wanted, especially in the upper jaw.a CHAPTER VII. OF IRREGULARITIES BETWEEN THE TEETH AND JAW. Certain disproportions between the teeth and jaw sometimes occur, one of which is, when the body of the lower jaw is not of sufficient length for all the teeth. In such cases, the last grinder never gets perfectly from under the coronoid process, its anterior edge only being uncovered; and the gum, which still in part lies upon the tooth, is a [The foregoing observations on irregularity are generally very judicious; and it would have been well if many writers on this subject had imitated the moderation which characterizes the mode of treatment here recommended. It is in the treatment of the teeth of children during the second dentition that we have in the present day chiefly to deplore the continual interference of interested ignorance, in the early re- moval of the temporary teeth, under the pretence of making room for the permanent ones. It is impossible too often or too forcibly to deprecate this practice. Cruel as it is, this is perhaps its least evil, for the pain and apprehension which are occasioned by it are but temporary; but a great permanent disadvantage follows this practice, which is, that if the temporary teeth be removed before the permanent ones are ready to fall into their place, the jaw will considerably contract during the growth of the child, and thus create a discrepancy between the size of the new teeth and the extent of the arch which they are to occupy. I feel assured that, upon the whole, more in- jury is at present done, with regard to irregularity, by the interference of dentists, than would accrue were the teeth of children at this period never examined or meddled with at all.