286 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. cases is seldom all discharged, and often but a very little of it, the symptoms soon recur; and in this way, with a call to make water per- haps every hour out of the four-and-twenty, the patient drags on a mi- serable life. The bladder, in all cases of obstruction, whether constant, as in the permanent stricture or swelled prostate gland, or only temporary, as in the spasmodic stricture, is generally kept distended, but much more so in the permanent stricture ; and when the irritation of fulness comes on, which is very frequent, the contraction of that viscus becomes vio- lent, in proportion to the resistance : the sympathetic contraction of the muscles of the abdomen takes place, and is also violent; yet the water at such times shall only dribble, and be discharged in small quantity; and in the spasmodic stricture often not a drop shall pass, so that the blad- der is never entirely empty; and what does pass is no more than what is sufficient to take off the irritation of fulness, by which means these actions become more frequent, and consequently there is almost always a constant oozing of urine from the penis between the times of making water. This, however, is not always the case, for the bladder some- times is so irritable as not to cease acting till it has evacuated the whole water; and even then it is not at ease, but still strains, though there is nothing to throw out, the action of the bladder becoming a cause of its own continuance. In all such affections of the bladder there is a sensation of pain and itching combined in the glans penis*. If the symptoms are more urgent than what can be accounted for upon the supposition of a stricture or disease of the prostate gland, a stone is to be suspected. §. 1. Of the Treatment where the Actions of the Urethra and Bladder do not exactly alternate. The cure, where the disease arises from spasm alone, consists in re- moving the disposition to over-action in the urethra, and the irritable disposition of the bladder when the urethra does not obey it. Perhaps opiate clysters, as a temporary means of relief, are the very best medi- cines that can be administered. I have known a blister to the loins, or to the perinseum, remove the spasm, in a great measure, from the urethra. * Added: “ In diseases of the bladder the constitution is sooner affected by sym- ptoms of dissolution than from the same apparent degree of disease in other parts; the patient becomes drowsy, insensible, and soon dies.”—Home.