167 OF GONORRIICE A. she had also a dull heavy pain, and a sense of weight at the bottom of her belly and round her hips, with great soreness of the parts when she sat. These symptoms had been preceded by an itching about the orifice of the vagina. By taking a mercurial pill, and rubbing the parts with mercurial oint- ment, in about eight days the violence of the symptoms abated. They were now allowed to cohabit; but whenever they came together the pain which she suffered was excessive. The parts were washed with a solution of corrosive sublimate and sugar of lead, and anointed with mer- curial ointment, which applications being continued for some time, the soreness went off. He was treated medically, and afterwards all was well. Here was a venereal gonorrhoea contracted about the beginning of April; all the symptoms had disappeared by the first of June, and there only remained some of the consequences, such as chordee, hardness of the epididymis, and a discharge of a little slimy mucus, which could only be observed in the morning. In a short time the chordee and hardness in the epididymis had entirely gone off, and merely the small discharge of mucus, which appeared only in the morning, remained; yet three months after he communicated the disease to his wife. I was consulted in the following case by the surgeon who attended. July 13th, 1783, a person had connexion with a woman of the town; the 30th, that is, seventeen days after, a gonorrhoea came on, which was violent. He took mercurial pills and gentle purges. In twelve days the violent symptoms abated, and about the 4th of September the dis- charge was stopped. On the 9th it began to appear again, but only lasted a few days; and would come and go in this way sometimes every two days, often six or seven days. On the 28th of Septem- ber he had connexion with his wife, while he had a small discharge. The 9th of October he had connexion again ; and three days after she complained of heat in making water, with a discharge and other sym- ptoms of gonorrhoea, which were violent. About the latter end of Oc- tober her complaints were almost removed, some only of the symptoms appearing and disappearing till January 1784, when he had connexion with her to try whether she could give it him, viz. three months after the second connexion; and in fourteen days after this he had all the symptoms of a gonorrhoea. April 29, he was not perfectly well, having a discharge, with a pain in the perinseum ; and she also had a discharge. If this last attack, in January 1784, in him was a gonorrhoea, then of course she must have had it; and also of course he must have lost his in the intermediate time, between the 9th of October 1783 and January 1784; for if he had it also then, it could not have produced any effect upon him.