SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIJCEA. 252 and composition of bougies. They ought to be about two inches longer than the distance between the glans and the stricture, or more if they can pass freely, so as always to allow an inch to bend upon the glans, and another to pass beyond the stricture. The thickness should be according to the size of the stricture ; at first such as will pass with a small degree of tightness, and this should be gradually increased as the contracted part enlarges. But when the urethra has become of the na- tural size the bougie need not be further increased, but its use still continued, as has been observed. With regard to the shape, they should not taper from end to end when very small, but should be nearly of an equal thickness till within an inch of their smallest end, after which they should taper to a point, forming a round wedge fitted to pass into the stricture; and this form gives them greater strength than when made to taper from one end to the other. The consistence ought to vary according to the nature of the case and size of the bougie. If the stricture be near the glans, a stiff bougie may be used, and the whole may be made to taper gradually, because a short bougie will always have sufficient strength for any pressure that is necessary; but if the stricture be more deeply seated, as about the bulb, where the passage begins to take a curve, the bougie must be a little thicker in its body to support the necessary pressure. If the stric- ture be anywhere in the bend of the urethra, or near the bladder, the bougie should be very flexible (although this is contrary to our general position), because in this case it must bend in order to adapt itself to the curve of the passage, which it ought to do with ease : for when it bends with difficulty it does not make its pressure upon the stricture, but upon the back part of the urethra, and therefore does not enter so easily, which circumstance makes it more difficult to enter a stricture near the bladder than near the glans. In the composition of the bougie the consistence is the most material thing to be considered, the medi- cal properties, as far as known, being of little consequence. The ma- terials of which they are commonly made are wax, oil, and litharge. The litharge gives them smoothness, and takes off the adhesive quality which they would have if made of wax and oil only. A composition which answers well is three pints of oil of olives, one pound of bees- wax, and a pound and a half of red lead, boiled together upon a slow fire for six hours. my passing a bougie smeared witli a stimulating oil for a few minutes to remove the spasm, an irritation and swelling of the left testicle came on. He afterwards caught a gonorrhoea, which entirely removed the spasm while it lasted, but also brought on a swelling of the testicle.”—Home.