SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 311 without the semen, that takes place there when the semen enters, in consequence of all the natural preparatory steps, whereby the very same actions are excited as if it came into the passage ; from which one would suppose that either semen is not secreted, or if it be, that a retrograde motion takes place in the actions of the acceleratores urinse. But if the first be the case, then we may suppose that in the natural state the actions of those muscles do not arise simply from the stimulus of the semen in the part, but from their action being a termination of a pre- ceding one making part of a series of actions. Thus they may depend upon the friction, or the imagination of a friction, on the penis, the tes- ticles not doing their part, and the spasm in such cases arising from the friction, and not from the secretion. In many of those cases of irregularity, when the erection is not strong, it shall go off without the emission ; and at other times an emission shall happen almost without an erection: but these arise not from de- bility, but affections of the mind. In many of the preceding cases, washing the penis, scrotum, and peri- naeum with cold water is often of service ; and, to render it colder than % we find it in some seasons of the year, common salt may be added to it, and the parts washed when the salt is almost dissolved. CHAPTER XIII. OF THE DECAY OF THE TESTICLE. It would appear, from some circumstances, that the parts of generation are not to be considered as necessary parts of the animal machine, but only as parts superadded for particular purposes, and therefore only ne- cessary when those particular purposes are to be answered; for we may observe that they are later of coming to maturity than any other parts, and are more liable to decay. Thus far in their natural properties they are different from most other parts of our body, the teeth only excepted, which are similar in some of those circumstances. The testicles appear to be more subject to spontaneous disease than any other part of the body ; but what is the most singular thing of all is the wasting of those bodies. One or both testicles shall wholly dis- appear, like to the thymus gland, or membrana pupillaris, &c. in the