OF THE DISEASES 60 This blackness is seldom more than a portion of the bony part de- cayed or mortified. However, it often happens that the remaining part of the tooth becomes simply dead, in which state it is capable of taking on a dye. As it is generally on the external surface, one might expect no great mischief would ensue; but the tendency to mortification goes deeper and deeper, till at last it arrives at the cavity of the tooth, and the mortification follows. Mortification is common to every part of the body; but in most other parts this tendency is owing in a great measure to the constitution, which being corrected, that disposition ceases; but here it is local, and as such it would appear that we have no power of resisting it. When gone thus far the decay makes a quicker progress, similar to those cases where the decay begins in the cavity; for then this disposition is given to the whole cavity of the tooth, which being a much larger surface than what the disease had before to act upon, the increase of the decay seems to be in the same proportion : at last it scoops out its inner substance, till almost nothing is left but a thin shell, which generally being broken by mastication, a smaller or larger open- ing is made, and the whole cavity becomes at length exposed. The canal in the fang of the tooth is more slowly affected; the scooping process appears to stop there, for we seldom know a fang be- come very hollow to its point when in the form of a stump ; and it sometimes appears sound, even when the body of the tooth is almost destroyed: hence I conclude that the fang of the tooth has greater living powers than the body, by which the process of the disease is re- tarded ; and this part appears at last only to lose its living principle, and not to take on the mortifying process above described; for which reason it remains simply a dead fang: however, it does not remain per- fectly at resta. This is the stage in which it is called a stump. It begins now to lose its sensibility, and is seldom afterwards the cause of pain. Thus, in appearance, it will remain sometimes for many years, but there will be more or less of a change going on; Nature will be at- tempting to make up the deficiency by endeavouring to increase the stump ; for in many cases we find the stumps thickened and lengthened at their terminations, or small ends; but it is a process she is not equal to, therefore no advantages accrue from it. When she either fails in this process, or is in such a state as not to attempt it, then by this condition of the tooth a stimulus is given to the alveolar processes which produces a filling up of the socket from the bottom, whereby the n [The mortification and simple death of a part are exceedingly different things. On this subject the reader is referred to the Treatise on Inflammation: see Vol. III.]