OF CHANCRE. 327 those parts ever after, giving the penis a curve to one side in its erec- tions. This sometimes takes place through the whole cellular substance of the penis, producing a short and almost inflexible stump. The adhesions of those cells do not proceed from venereal inflamma- tion only; they are often the consequences of other diseases, and some- times they take place without any visible cause whatever. A gentleman, sixty years of age, who has been lame with the gout these twenty years past, has for these eighteen months had the penis contracted on the left and upper side, so as to bend that way very con- siderably in erections, which erections are more frequent than common. Quere : Is the gout the cause of this, by producing adhesions of the cells of one corpus cavernosum, so as not to yield to or allow of the in- flux of blood on that side ? And is the irritation of the gout the cause of the frequency of the erections ? CHAPTER II. OF CHANCRES IN WOMEN. Women are subject to chancres; but, from the simplicity of the parts, the complaint is often less complicated than in men. For in this sex we have only the disease and constitutional affection, and no inconve- nience arising from the formation of the parts. When the matter is introduced into the vagina or urethra it there irritates a secreting surface, as I described when treating of the disease in general and of women in particular; but when it is lodged in the inside of the skin of the labia or nymphse those parts are often only affected with gonorrhoea; but, like the glans penis in men, they are also capable of ulceration. Ulcerations are generally more numerous in women, because the surface upon which they can form is much larger : we find them on the edge of the labia, sometimes on the out- side, and even on the perinseum. Ulcers that are formed on the inside of the labia or nymphse are never allowed to dry or scab ; but on the outside they are subject to have the matter dry upon them, which forms a scab similar to those on the body of the penis or scrotum.