SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA. 229 sides being compressed, which may be done either by exterior contigu- ous swellings, or by a swelling of the prostate gland. ยง. 1. Of Strictures. The three first I shall now consider, of which the first is the true per- manent stricture arising from an alteration in the structure of a part of the urethra. The second is a mixed case, composed of a permanent stricture and spasm. The third is the true spasmodic stricture. Most obstructions to the passage of the urine, if not all, are attended with nearly the same symptoms, so that there are hardly sufficient marks for distinguishing the different causes. Few take notice of the first sym- ptoms of a stricture till they have either become violent, or have been the cause of other inconveniences. For instance, a patient shall have a considerable stricture without observing that he does not make water freely; he shall even have, in consequence of a stricture, a tendency to inflammation, and suppuration in the perinseum, and not feel any ob- struction to the passage of his urine, nor suspect that he has any other complaint than the inflammation in the perinseum. In all of these ob- structions the stream of water becomes small, and that in proportion to the obstruction ; but this symptom, though probably it is the first, is not always observed by the patient. In some the water is voided only in drops, and then it cannot escape notice; in others the stream of urine is forked or scattered: under such circumstances, the passage should be examined with a bougie; and if one of a common size passes with tolerable ease, the fifth cause of obstruction is to be suspected, which will most probably be found to be a swelled prostate gland, for any other cause that can produce a compression of the sides of the urethra sufficient to obstruct the urine, will be known to the patient, such as a tumour forming anywhere along the canal, or an inflammation along its sides. If, therefore, neither of these is known to exist, the prostate gland should be examined, as will be described hereafter. The spasmodic obstruction will commonly explain itself when the symptoms are well investigated, for the obstruction arising from this cause will not be permanent. These obstructions, but more particularly that from a permanent stricture, are generally attended with a discharge of matter, or a gleet. This is often considered by the patient as the whole disease, and he applies to the surgeon for the cure of a gleet. The surgeon often perseveres in attempting the cure of this disease j but, no success attending him, at last other symptoms are observed, and a stricture is suspected, either by the surgeon or patient. In diseases