310 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRIICEA, given to venery as most young men, had these last-mentioned complaints upon him. Three or four times in the night he would emit; and if he walked fast, or rode on horseback, the same thing would happen. He could scarcely have connexion with a woman before he emitted, and in the emission there was hardly any spasm. He tried every supposed strengthening medicine, as also the cold bath and sea-bathing, but with no effect. By taking twenty drops of laudanum, on going to bed, he prevented the night emissions; and by taking the same quantity in the morning, he could walk or ride without the before-mentioned inconve- nience. I directed this practice to be continued for some time, although the disease did not return, that the parts might be accustomed to this healthy state of action; and I have reason to believe the gentleman is now well. It was found necessary, as the constitution became more habituated to the opiate, to increase the dose of it. The spasms, upon the evacuation of the semen, in such cases are ex- tremely slight, and a repetition of them soon takes place ; the first emission not preventing a second; the constitution being all the time but little affected*. When the testicles act alone, without the acces- sory parts taking up the necessary and natural consequent action, it is still a more melancholy disease ; for the secretion arises from no visible or sensible cause, and does not give any visible or sensible effect, but runs off similar to involuntary stools, or urine. It has been observed that the semen is more fluid than natural in some of these cases. There is great variety in the diseased actions of these parts, of which the following case may be considered as an example. A gentleman has had a stricture in the urethra for many years, for which he has frequently used a bougie, but of late has neglected it. He has had no connexion with women for a considerable time, being afraid of the consequences. He has often in his sleep involuntary emissions, which generally awake him at the paroxysm; but what sur- prises him most is, that often he has such without any semen passing through the penis, which makes him think that at those times it goes backwards into the bladder. This is not always the case, for at other times the semen passes forwards. At the time the semen seems to pass into the bladder he has the erection, the dream, and is awaked with the same mode of action, the same sensation, and the same pleasure, as when it passes through the urethra, whether dreaming or waking. My opinion is that the same irritation takes place in the bulb of the urethra * It is to be considered that the constitution is commonly affected by the spasms only, and in proportion to their violence, independent of the secretion and evacuation of the semen. But in some cases even the erection going oft'without the spasms on the emission shall produce the same debility as if they had taken place.