323 OF CHANCRE. siderable and diffused inflammation, which, when it does happen, is generally in consequence of a chancre in this part. This irritation, tion may be so rapid as to overtake the induration, and to destroy it as quickly as it is formed. Sores are frequently seen, especially on the external prepuce, which spread rapidly, sometimes by sloughing and sometimes by ulceration, with profuse discharge and some surrounding inflammation, but with little or no characteristic hardness. But the absence of this distinctive character of venereal sores is only accidental, and is oc- casioned by the rapid progress of the ulcer: for if the extension of the sore be checked by local means, which may often be effected, the surrounding induration shall appear, and shall become daily mord palpable; until its further progress is stopped by such re- medies as act directly on the virus, and thus remove the cause from which it arises. It is evident that these occasional variations do not affect the truth of the general position, that the natural result of venereal infection is induration passing into ulcera- tion. But in the practical application of this principle as a criterion of the real nature or a sore, some circumstances must be taken into the account, which often modify the appearances and perplex the diagnosis. The true venereal induration is “circumscribed, and terminates abruptly.” But when much inflammation is present these characters will not be discernible. The spe- cific thickening will be confounded in the general thickening from inflammation, and will not be distinguishable from that which may attend an ordinary sore. Its existence cannot be distinctly and indubitably ascertained till the general inflammation is removed or palliated ; and then, when the surrounding lymph is absorbed, there will still remain at the seat of the sore a hardened base and a hardened circumference, having a well- defined abrupt margin. Sores lhat are ill-conditioned may produce surrounding thickening, although free from all specific virus. If the surface is sloughy, the base may be indurated. In such cases it is sometimes impossible to say at once with certainty whether the thickening is to be ascribed to the presence of the venereal virus, or is the mere consequence of the ill-conditioned state of the sore. The opinion should generally be suspended, and lo- cal means should be used for the removal of the slough. When this is effected, in com- mon sores, the hardness which was produced by its irritation will disappear also: in venereal sores, notwithstanding a similar change of the surface has been produced, the induration will nevertheless remain, and continue to spread, and ultimately the sore will again become foul and perhaps sloughy. It is evident therefore that the distinction is to be drawn less from the appearance of the sore at any one moment than from its course and progress. Many circumstances may at any one time confuse the appearances, and may deceive the surgeon; but it is scarcely possible that he can err, if he watches the progress of the case, and uses means to obviate the causes of error. If the sore be venereal, he will be able to detect the changes which mark the contamination, viz. first, induration ; and secondly, ulceration. It is not meant that the other characters of venereal sores are to be disregarded in forming the diagnosis. The bright red areola which encirdtes them; the mode of ex- tension which is equally in all directions ; the disposition of the discharge from them to produce similar sores on the surfaces with which it is allowed to come in contact; these all form important distinctions, and should by no means be overlooked. But it often happens that these tests cannot be applied. The red areola is often obscured by sur- rounding inflammation, and altogether undistinguishable. Sores which aire not venereal often spread regularly and evenly from a centre. Where attention is paid to cleanliness and the discharge is not allowed to collect, no other sores will be produced, and the Y 2