OF GONORRHOEA. 187 happens that the discharge in the fluor albus puts on all the appear- ances of the venereal matter; and an increase of the discharge is no better mark by which we can distinguish the one from the other. Pain, or any peculiarity in the sensations of the parts, is not a necessary atten- dant upon this complaint in women, therefore not to be looked for as a distinguishing symptom. The appearance of the parts often gives us but little information, for I have frequently examined the parts of those who confessed all the symptoms, such as increase of discharge, pain in making water, soreness in walking, or when they were touched; yet I could see no difference between these and sound parts. I know of no other way of judging in cases where there are no symptoms sensible to the person herself, or where the patient has a mind to deny having any uncommon symptoms, but from the circumstances preceding the discharge, such as her having been connected with men supposed to be unsound, or her being able to give it to others, which last circumstance, being derived from the testi- mony of another person, is not always to be trusted to, for very obvious reasons. Thus a woman may have this species of the venereal disease without knowing it herself, or without the surgeon being able to dis- cover it, even on inspection. It may appear very strange, that a disease which is so violent and well marked in men should be so obscure in women ; but when we consider that this poison generally produces sym- ptoms according to the nature of the parts affected by it, it becomes an easy matter to account in some measure for this difference. When we attend to the manner in which this disease is contracted by women, it is evident that it must principally attack the vagina, a part that is not endowed with much sensation, or action of any kind. While it is confined to the vagina it may be compared to the same disease on the glans penis in men. In many cases, however, it extends much further, and becomes the cause of disagreeable feelings, producing a considerable soreness in all the parts formed for sensation, such as the inside of the labia, nymphee, clitoris, carunculse myrtiformes, the orifice of the meatus urinarius, and often affecting that canal in its whole length. Those parts are so sore in some cases as not to bear being touched; the person can hardly walk; the urine gives pain in its pas- sage through the urethra, and when it washes the above-mentioned parts, which can hardly be avoided. Such symptoms are not much in- creased at one time more than another, excepting at the time of making water, and then principally in those who have the urethra affected, for as these parts are less exposed to circumstances of change, the increased irritation arising from such change of parts must necessarily in this sex be less. But in men the urethra, which is the part most commonly af-