OF CHANCRE. 339 flammation has arisen early in the disease, they may be then given to- gether, so as to counteract both diseases, and not allow the inflamma- tion to come to so great a height as it would otherwise do if mercury was given at first alone. This inflammation may be so great in many cases, or be so predominant, that mercury may increase the disposition, and therefore become hurtful. Where this may be supposed to be the case, bark must be given alone3. ยง. 6. Of the Treatment of the Paraphimosis front Chancres. A prepuce in the state of inflammation and tumefaction, and which has been either kept back upon the body of the penis while inflaming, or pulled back when inflamed, seldom can be again brought forwards while in this state, therefore becomes also the subject of an operation, which consists in dividing the same part, as in the phimosis, only in a different way, arising from its difference of situation, the intention of which operation is to bring the prepuce, when brought forwards, to the state of a phimosis that has been operated upon. This operation becomes more necessary in many cases under this disease than under the phi- mosis, because its consequences are generally worse ; since, besides the real disease, viz. inflammation, tumefaction, ulceration, &c., there is a mechanical cause producing its effects, by grasping the penis, which a [In many cases of phimosis mercury is not necessary, because in many cases the affection arises not from a venereal chancre, but from a common sore: as, for instance, from that sort of ulceration which the author has denominated gonorrhoea of the glans and prepuce. When the sore is a chancre mercury must be used, and the sore will seldom be overcome without it, because washes and other topical applications, as well as diaphoretics and purgatives internally, though they exercise a certain degree of power over the inflammation, do not reduce the genuine venereal thickening. If the surgeon is in doubt as to the real nature of the sore within, he may suspend the use of mercury till the inflammation has been partly subdued by other means, and he has acquired evi- dence of its true character, from the obstinacy of the contraction, or the distinct per- ception of the ehancrous induration. But the presence of active inflammation forms no objection to the employment of mercury. On the contrary, under such circum- stances, mercury will in all cases be beneficial. Even when the prepuce is sloughing, it is not in general contraindicated, provided the bright arterial colour of the part, and the state of the pulse and of the skin, show that the arterial action is above the natural standard. The sloughing in such cases arises either from the confinement of matter within the prepuce, or from the excessive violence of the inflammation. In the first case it will be stopped by making an opening with a lancet at the part where the abscesc is pointing; in the second case it will be most effectually limited by quickly subduing the inflammation ; and this may be best accomplished by absolute rest, by the internal use of antimony and mercury, and by the frequent injection of saturnine washes under the prepuce.] z2