OF TIIF. LUES VENEREA. 435 which become thickened and ulcerate, while the gums are not in the least affected, as appears by the patient being capable of biting any- thing hard. Mercury, when it falls upon the mouth, and parts belonging to the mouth, not only increases the discharge of those parts, but it brings on great tumefaction, which is not of the true inflammatory kind, where coagulable lymph is thrown out, but rather resembling erysipelatous tumefaction. The tongue, cheeks, and gums swell, and the teeth be- come loose ; all which effects are in proportion to the quantity of mer- cury given, and susceptibility of the parts for such irritation. It pro- duces great weakness in the parts, in which ulceration easily takes place, especially if the)'- are in the least irritated, which is often done by the teeth, and even mortification sometimes ensues. How far it produces similar effects when it falls on other parts, I do not know. The saliva, in such cases, is generally ropy, as if principally from the glands affected. The breath acquires a particular smell *. As mercury generally produces evacuations, it was naturally imagined that it was by this means that it effected a cure of the venereal disease; but experience has taught us that, in curing the venereal disease by this medicine, evacuations of any kind produced by it are not at all neces- sary. And this might have been supposed, as similar evacuations, pro- duced by other medicines, are of no service ; therefore it was reason- able to imagine that these evacuations, when produced by mercury, were also of no service, except we could suppose that the evacuation produced by the mercury was not the same with that produced by other medicines, but that it was a specific evacuation; that is to say, a discharge carry- ing off the venereal poison by its union with the mercury, and therefore the faster the mercury went off the sooner would the poison be carried out of the constitution. But this is not found to be the case in prac- tice : on the contrary, evacuations produced by the medicine retard the cure, especially if the secretory organs are too susceptible of this sti- mulus ; for then the quantity which is necessary or sufficient for the cure of the disease cannot be taken in, the effects of the medicine upon particular parts being greater than the patient can bear; and the quan- tity of mercury to be thrown into the constitution must be limited and regulated according to the quantity of evacuation, and not according to the extent of the disease. On the other hand, if it is given with care, * Added : “ A person could not have mercury applied externally without its occa- sioning violent inflammation. He could take ten or twelve grains of the mercurius calcinatus every day without affecting his bowels or mouth, but it affected his head, so that he could hardly walk; and, to use his own expression, he did not know ‘whether his head was off or on.’ ”—Home. 2 F 2