SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 253 ยง. 1. Of a new Passage formed by Bougies. The greatest evil arising from the improper use of the bougie, and the most dangerous, is where it makes a new passage*. I mentioned before that this generally rose from an attempt to produce ulceration by the application of the end of the bougie to the stricture in cases where a bougie could not pass ; for in those cases where a bougie passes there can be no danger of such an effect. This new passage is seldom carried so far as to produce either an in- crease of the present disease or a new one, although sometimes this happens; yet it prevents the cure of the original disease, for it renders both the application of the bougie and caustic to the stricture so un- certain that a continuance of either is dangerous, as it may increase the mischief and at last produce very bad consequences. This new passage is generally along the side of the old one when in that part of the urethra which is on this side of the bend, and it is made in the spongy substance of the urethra; but when it is made at the be- ginning of the bend, it passes on in a straight line through the body of the urethra, about the beginning of the membranous part, and goes through the cellular substance of the perinamm towards the rectum. When the new passage is made between the glans and the bend of the urethra, it may take place on either side of the canal equally, in the spongy substance of the urethra; between the canal and the skin of the penis or scrotum; and it may be between the canal and the body of the penis. The situation of it will make some difference in the operation necessary for the cure of this complaint. When a newr passage is made I know of no other method of cure than to open the part externally ; and the opening must be made in that part of the urethra which is most convenient for coming at the stricture, re- gard being had to the other external parts, such as the scrotum. If the stricture be before the scrotum the new passage will be there also, and therefore the operation must be made of course before that part; but if the stricture is opposite to the scrotum, the bottom of the new passage may also be opposite to this part; but if the new passage is of a consi- derable length, its bottom or termination may be in the beginning of the perinseum; and in either situation the operation must be begun behind the scrotum, or indeed may be made a little way into it. But if the stric- ture and new passage are in the perineum, then the operation is to be performed there. * Vide Plate X.