OF THE LUES VENEREA. 463 the last three days he took seventy-two grains a day. In twenty-six days he took seven hundred and sixty-eight, which is nearly two ounces of opium. Sarsaparilla, from the comparative experiment made with it and the guaiacum, would appear to have no effect upon the venereal irritation itself, and therefore can be of no service till that irritation is destroyed; and as mercury is the antidote to that poison, and becomes one of the causes of the complaints in which sarsaparilla is useful, therefore mer- cury is not only necessary to destroy the poison, but also assists in form- ing the diseases we are now treating of. It is easy to conceive it in many cases to be of use in preventing the formation of the disease arising from mercury. When given along with the mercury it is often joined with the gum guaiacum, or the wood of the guaiacum, which we know will have some effect. The sarsaparilla is generally given in form of a decoction, three ounces to three pints of water, boiled down slowly to a quart, and the half or whole is drunk every day, generally at three different times, often at meals. It is sometimes ground to a powder and taken every day with the same effect; but I should prefer the extract made into pills, as the easiest way of taking this medicine. In many of these cases I have seen good effects from the hemlock, of wrhich the following is an instance; and I would further refer the reader back to my observations on this medicine, which I gave when treating of the disease produced in consequence of a bubo, p. 380. A poor woman had undergone repeated salivations, which had always relieved the most pressing symptoms ; but after that she was afflicted more or less for three or four years, ulcers broke out in her nose, and all over her face, with what is called a true cancerous appearance. The sores became soon very deep, and gave very considerable pain. Mer- cury, sarsaparilla, and bark were given, without effect; the sores get- ting daily vrorse, the parts affected were ordered to be held over the steam of a decoction of hemlock every four hours, and as much extract to be taken internally as the patient could bear. She had sleep, and was free from pain the first night; and in a few days the sores put on a healing appearance. She lost her nose and one side of her mouth ; but in six weeks’ time every part was skinned over. She remained well for three months, when the disease returned with redoubled violence, and soon destroyed her.