OF THE LUES VENEREA. 461 diseases, both in sucli as are consequent to the venereal disease, and others arising from other causes. It has been long a favourite medicine of mine, not only as relieving pain, for that is its common effect, but as a medicine capable of altering diseased actions, and producing healthy ones. In all sores attended with irritability, a decoction of poppy heads, made into a poultice, is an excellent application. Bleeding sores that do not arise from weakness, but from irritability, have the bleeding stopped immediately by this ap- plication. Mr. Pott is, I believe, the first who showed the world its use in mortifications. My first mode of applying it for the cure of diseases was locally, in which I found it had most salutary effects in some cases, and it was ordered afterwards internally upon the same principle; and it was also found to have salutary effects in this mode. In two cases that had been long suspected to be venereal, its effects were very re- markable, and, by its having cured them, it confirmed me in my opinion that they were not. But when I was informed that they cured the ve- nereal disease in the army in America by opium, I then began to ques- tion myself, whether I had formed a right judgment of the nature of those two cases which were cured by opium. To ascertain whether opium would cure the lues venerea or not, I made the following trial at St. George’s Hospital. A woman was taken into the hospital with blotches on her skin, which had arrived to the state of scabs, and with well-marked venereal ulcers on both tonsils. A grain of opium was ordered to be taken the first night, two the second, and so on, increasing a grain every night, unless something should arise to forbid it. This was closely followed till the nineteenth night, when she was ordered a dose of physic, as she had become costive, and the opium was omitted. On the 20th she began again, and continued increasing the dose, as before, till it amounted to thirty grains, no alteration being produced in the sores, except what arose from the loss of time, whereby they were rather worse. I con- cluded, that if she had taken mercury to affect the constitution as much as the opium did, the venereal disease must have been nearly cured, or at least much lessened; but as that was not the case, it convinced me that the opium had no effect whatever on the venereal disease. I then put her under a course of mercury, by friction, and in a short time it affected her mouth; the sores soon began to look better, and they went on healing without interruption, till the disease was cured. I may just observe, the inconvenience from the opium was not considerable, for although it kept her quiet, she was not constantly dosing. Luke Ward was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, January 12, 1785; his complaint was an ulcer in the throat of three months’