408 OF THE LUES VENEREA. inflammation, which gives them a degree of transparency, which I think is generally greater in the summer than in the winter, especially if the patient be kept warm. In a little time this inflammation disappears, and the cuticle peels off in the form of a scurf. This sometimes misleads the patient and the surgeon, who look upon this dying away of the in- flammation as a decay of the disease, till a succession of scurfs unde- ceives them. These discolorations of the cuticle arise from the venereal irritation, and are seldom to be reckoned a true inflammation, for they seldom have any of its characteristics, such as tumefaction and pain; but this is true only on those parts most exposed, for in parts well covered, and in parts constantly in contact with other parts, there is more of the true inflammatory appearance, especially about the anus. The appearance of the parts themselves next begins to alter, forming a copper-coloured dry inelastic cuticle, called a scurf; this is thrown off, and new ones are formed. These appearances spread to the breadth of a sixpence or shilling, but seldom broader, at least for a considerable time, every succeeding scurf becoming thicker and thicker, till at last it becomes a common scab, and the disposition for the formation of matter takes place in the cutis under the scab, so that at last it turns out a true ulcer, in which state it commonly spreads, although but slowly. These appearances arise first from the gradual loss of the true sound cuticle, the diseased cutis having lost the disposition to form one ; and, as a kind of substitute for this want of cuticle, an exudation takes place, forming a scale, and afterwards becoming thicker, and the matter ac- quiring more consistence, it at last forms a scab; but before it has ar- rived at this stage the cutis has given way, and ulcerated, after which the discharge becomes more of a true pus. When it attacks the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, where the cuticle is thick, a se- paration of the cuticle takes place, and it peels off; a new one is imme- diately formed, which also separates, so that a series of new cuticles takes place, from its not so readily forming scurfs as on the common skin. If the disease is confined to those parts it becomes more difficult to determine whether or not it be venereal, for most diseases of the cu- tis of these parts produce a separation of the cuticle attended with the same appearances in all, and having nothing characteristic of the vene- real disease. Such appearances are peculiar to that part of the common skin of the body which is usually exposed ; but when the skin is opposed by another skin which keeps it in some degree more moist, as between the nates, about the anus, or between the scrotum and the thigh, or in the angle between the two thighs, or upon the prolabium of the mouth, and in the