OF CHANCRE. 320 If the venereal poison should be applied to the skin, where the cuticle is more dense than that of the glans penis, or frsenum, such as that upon the body of the penis, or fore part of the scrotum (parts which are very much exposed to the application of this matter), then it generally appears first in a pimple, which is commonly allowed to scab, owing to its being exposed to evaporation. The scab is generally rubbed off or pushed off, and one larger than the first forms. I think there is less inflammation attending these last than those on the frsenum and prepuce, but more than those upon the glans. When the disease is allowed to go on, so as to partake of the inflam- mation peculiar to the habit, it becomes in many instances more dif- fused, and is often carried so far as to produce disagreeable symptoms, as phimosis, and sometimes paraphimosis, greatly retarding the cure ; but still there is a hardness peculiar to this poison, surrounding the sores, especially those upon the prepuce. When these ulcers are forming, and after they are formed, or in the state of inflammation, it is no uncommon thing for the urethra to sym- pathize with them, and give a tickling pain, especially in making water; but whether or not there is ever a discharge in the urethra from such a cause I will not determine; but if a discharge never takes place but when the disease really attacks the urethra, it would make us suppose that this sympathy is not really inflammatory ; or if it is carried so far as to produce inflammation, yet that it is not of the specific kind. How- ever, it is possible in those cases where there is a gonorrhoea preceded by a chancre, that this gonorrhoea may arise from sympathy, and is not a disease proceeding from the original contamination, nor from the mat- ter of the chancre. That the sensation in the urethra, in those instances where there is no discharge, is from sympathy, and not from the urethra being attacked with the disease at the time that the matter laid the groundwork for the chancre, is evident from the following observation. I have seen it happen more than once, when the seat of the chancre had broke out a second time, and where no new or fresh infection had been caught, that the patient complained of the same tickling or slight pain in the urethra before any discharge had taken place in the begin- ning ulcerations. From the same connexion of parts I have seen a chancre coming upon the glans absolutely cure both a gleet and an ir- ritation all along the passage of the urethra. So great was the previous irritation in this case, that I suspected a stricture; but, on passing a bougie, found none. In consequence of the urethra sympathizing with the chancre, the testicles and scrotum will further sympathize with the urethra, and