SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. 259 tion in these ulcerations appears to be peculiar to that part of the ure- thra which lies between the membranous part and the glans penis; for we find from experience that when this process takes place further back, as in the prostate gland, a circumscribed abscess is generally formed. This may arise from the difference in texture of the cellular membrane of the parts, the first admitting of the diffusion of the urine very readily from the looseness of its texture, the other producing adhesions before the urine is allowed to pass, which adhesions afterwards exclude it. It sometimes happens that the urine gets into the spongy substance of the body of the urethra, and is immediately diffused through the whole, even to the glans penis, producing mortification of all those parts, as I have more than once seen. When the urine has made its way into the cellular membrane, although the ulceration of the urethra is in the perinseum, yet it generally passes easily forwards into the scrotum, that part being composed of the loosest cellular membrane in the body. Wrhen the seat of the ulceration is in the membranous or bulbous part of the urethra, and the pus and urine have found their way to the scrotum, there is always a hardness ex- tended along the perinseum to the swelled scrotum, which is in the tract of the pus. Ulceration cannot be prevented but by destroying the stricture ; but when the water is in the cellular membrane, which is the state we have been describing, the removal of the stricture will in general be too late to prevent all the mischief, although it will be necessary for the com- plete cure; therefore an attempt should be made to pass a bougie, for perhaps the stricture may be included in the ulceration (as was men- tioned before), and thereby allow a bougie to pass. When this is the case, bougies must be almost constantly used to procure as free a passage forwards in the right way as possible. Where the bougie will not pass, I am afraid that the caustic, as described in the case of a stricture, would in many cases be too slow in its operation, and in others it can- not be tried, as the situation of the stricture is often such as will not admit of it. While we are attempting the cure of the stricture eveiy method is to be used that removes inflammation, particularly bleeding. Great re- lief may be obtained by exposing the parts to the steam of hot water; but this is merely a palliative cure. The warm bath, opium, and the turpentines, given by the mouth, and also by the anus, will assist in taking off any spasmodic affection; but all these are too often insuffi- cient, and therefore immediate relief must be attempted, both to unload the bladder, and prevent any further effusion of urine into the cellular membrane. This must be done by an operation, which consists in