326 OF CHANCRE. Such a state of the prepuce is very often productive of bad conse- quences, especially when the chancres are behind the glans ; for the glans being between the orifice of the prepuce and the sores, it there fills up the whole cavity of the prepuce, between the chancres and opening, and often so tightly, that the matter from the sores behind cannot get a passage forwards between the glans and prepuce, by which means there is an accumulation of matter behind the corona glandis, forming an abscess which produces ulceration upon the inside of the prepuce. This abscess opens externally, and the glans often protruding through the opening, throws the whole prepuce to the opposite side, the penis appearing to have two terminations. On the other hand, if the prepuce is loose, wide, and is either accus- tomed to be kept back in its sound state or is pulled back to dress the chancres, and is allowed to remain in this situation till the above tume- faction takes place, then it is called a paraphimosis; or if the prepuce is pulled forcibly back after it is swelled, it is then brought from the state of a phimosis, as before described, to that of a paraphimosis. This last-described situation of the prepuce is often much more troublesome, and often attended with worse symptoms, than the former, especially if it should have been changed from a phimosis to a paraphi- mosis. The reason of which is, that the aperture of the prepuce is na- turally less elastic than either the internal inverted part or the external skin ; therefore when the prepuce is pulled back upon the body of the penis, that part grasps it tighter than any other part of the skin of the penis, and more so in proportion to the inflammation : the consequence of which is, the swelling of the prepuce is divided into two, one swell- ing close to the glans, the other behind the stricture or neck. This stricture is often so great as to interrupt the free circulation of the blood beyond it, which also assists in increasing the swelling, adds to the stricture, and often produces a mortification of the prepuce itself, by which means the whole diseased part, together with the stricture, is sometimes removed, forming what may be called a natural cure*. In many cases the inflammation not only affects the skin of the penis, in which is included the prepuce, but it attacks the body of the penis itself, often producing adhesions and even mortification in the cells of the corpora cavernosa, either of which will destroy the distensibility of * A young man came into St. George’s Hospital with a paraphimosis in consequence of chancres on the inside of the prepuce. All the parts before the stricture, formed by the prepuce, mortified and dropped off. I ordered nothing but common dressings, and it healed very readily, and he left the hospital cured of the local complaint. Whether or not absorption had taken place previous to the mortification I do not know, as I never heard more of him.