322 OF CHANCRE. §. 1. Of the Phimosis and Paraphimosis. These diseases arise from a thickening of the cellular membrane of the prepuce, in consequence of an irritation capable of producing con- nereal infection is essentially induration passing afterwards into ulceration. In the earliest stage of the existence of a chancre this sequence is least discernible, there being frequently at that period superficial and incipient ulceration with very little apparent thickening. But in the progress of the disorder the two stages become in general very clearly distinguishable. If the sore be watched, it will be found that the thicken- ing becomes daily more distinct and extensive, till the ulcer assumes the true venereal appearance of a sore situated on an indurated base. The induration everywhere encom- passes the ulcer, being both beneath it and around it, forming as it were the bed of the sore, and at the same time encircling its margin, so as to connect it everywhere with the sound parts in the vicinity. In fact it marks the part most recently contaminated, which has not yet passed into ulceration. In the progress of the case, the induration spreads first, so that no parts are involved in the ulcer until they have previously passed through this change of texture. A primary venereal sore is scarcely ever stationary. The ulcer itself may be stationary ; but careful observation will detect a gradual increase of the thickened base, which proves, no less certainly than the enlargement of the ul- ceration itself, that the virus is steadily extending. These observations will explain certain occasional variations in the aspect of venereal sores, which, though sufficiently intelligible when closely examined, are exceedingly perplexing to those who form their diagnosis merely from the obvious appearances. It is not very uncommon that a primary venereal sore should assume the following characters. A portion of the prepuce, of about the size of a silver penny, shall become slightly thickened so as to lose its natural flexibility; and perhaps the surface shall be slightly excoriated. In the course of a few days, if the part is kept very clean, the ex- coriation shall in many cases disappear, but the hardness shall progressively increase, assuming a more defined character, and at last forming a large flat mass of the size of hal^“-a-crown, so inflexible and rigid that the prepuce cannot be everted without diffi- culty. There shall be no tenderness, no inflammation, sometimes no ulceration at all, at other times only a slight dark-coloured excoriation of the surface. Yet the case shall be venereal. If the usual anti-venereal remedies are not employed, all doubts on this subject shall be removed at the end of eight or ten weeks by the appearance of distinct secondary symptoms. In this case the aspect of the part bears no obvious resemblance to that of a common chancre; yet the difference is more apparent than real. The venereal virus produces the usual induration; but, from the slowness of its progress and the absence of inflam- mation, the indurated portion does not pass into ulceration. With this single excep- tion, the course of the disease is the same as that of an ordinary chancre. The increase of the hardness is progressive, until mercury is employed. As soon as the constitution is affected by the remedy, the thickened mass begins to diminish in size, and it gradu- ally disappears from the circumference to the centre, exactly like the induration left by a chancre. As a still further proof of the identity of the diseases, it may be stated, that, notwithstanding the absence of ulceration, the contiguous surface is often similarly affected. A similar induration will be produced in the part of the glans with which the original tumour is in contact, or on the opposite nympha when this affection is situated on the nympha in the female. Again, the deviation from the usual course may be of an opposite kind. The ulcera-