OF THE LUES VENEREA. 458 particularly after the gonorrhoea. It was also observed, that though all the symptoms were entirely cured, yet they were liable to break out again. A gleet will appear, sometimes attended with pain, so as to re- semble a gonorrhoea ; after chancres there will be sores resembling them; and buboes after the virus is gone, will not heal, but spread. In the lues venerea the same thing often happens, especially if the inflamma- tion and suppuration have been violent in the parts. These cases puzzle considerably; for it is difficult to say when the venereal virus is abso- lutely gone. In such doubtful cases the treatment to be followed be- comes more undetermined. Such complaints are more common in the tonsils than in any other part, for we often find that while a mercurial course is going on, and the ulcer on the tonsils healing, or even healed, they shall swell, become excoriated, and the excoriations shall sometimes spread over the whole palatum molle, which renders the nature of the disease doubtful. I be- lieve these excoriations, as well as such other appearances of disease as come on during the use of mercury, are seldom or never venereal. In all such cases I would recommend not to continue the mercury longer than what appears sufficient for overcoming the original venereal com- plaints, not considering those changes in the case as venereal. The bark is often of service here, and may be given either with the mercury, or after the mercurial course is over. It often happens that venereal abscesses will not heal up, although they have gone a certain length towards it, for while the venereal ac- tion remained in the part, the mercury disposed that part to heal; but under that course the constitution and part had acquired another dispo- sition, proceeding from a venereal and mercurial irritation affecting a particular habit of body or part, at the time, which new disposition differs from the venereal, mercurial, and natural, being a fourth dispo- sition arising out of all the three. I suspect, however, that it depends chiefly on the constitution, because if it was owing to the other two, we should always have the same disease ; and what makes this opinion more probable is, that it differs in different people, at least it is not cured in all by the same means. The constitution being predisposed, the other two become the immediate causes of action. As soon as the venereal irritation is destroyed by the mercury, or becomes weaker than the other two, then the effects of the others take place. While the venereal ac- tion prevails the mercury is of service, and the sore continues healing; but when it is lessened to a certain degree, or destroyed, the mercury not only loses its powers, but becomes a poison to the new disposition that is formed; for if mercury is continued, the sore spreads; it should therefore be immediately left off.