367 OF BUBO. methods. But if I should be right in my opinion, that there was no- thing venereal in the case, then he would probably get well by the sea- bathing alone. These arguments had the desired effect: he went directly to the sea, and began to recover almost immediately. About a fortnight after, a small suppuration took place in one of the glands. I directed that a poultice should be made with sea-water, and applied; and, in case of the breaking of the abscess, that it should not be further opened, but poul- ticed till healed. In six weeks he came back perfectly recovered in every respect. The above-mentioned appearance, with the constitutional affections, I have seen take place when there were chancres, and I have been puz- zled to determine whether it was sympathetic, from a derangement of the constitution, or from the absorption of matter. I have long suspected a mixed case, and I am now certain that such exists. I have seen cases where the venereal matter, like a cold or fever, has only irritated the glands to disease, producing in them scro- fula, to which they were predisposed. In such cases the swellings commonly arise slowly, give but little pain, and seem to be rather hastened in their progress if mercury is given to destroy the venereal disposition. Some come to suppuration while under this resolving course, and others, which probably had a venereal taint at first, become so indolent that mercury has no effect upon them, and in the end get well either of themselves or by other means, which, I imagine, may have induced some to think that buboes are never venereal. Such cases require great attention, that we may be able to determine them properly; and I believe this requires in many cases so nice a judgement that we shall be often liable to mistakes. Buboes are undoubtedly local complaints, as has been explained. How far the lymphatic glands are to be considered as guards against the further progress of this or any other disease caught by absorption, is not easily determined. We must, however, allow that they cannot prevent the poison from entering the constitution in cases where it pro- duces buboes, for whenever it affects these glands in its course, it pro- duces the same disease in them which is capable of furnishing the con- stitution with an increased quantity of the same kind of poison.