236 SUPPOSED CONSEQUENCES OF GONORRHOEA. such cases of spasm in the stricture, I have often succeeded by letting the bougie remain a little while close to the stricture, and then pushing it on; this mode so often succeeds, that it should always be attempted when the bougie does not pass, or only passes occasionally. This will be mentioned more fully when we shall consider the spasmodic stric- ture. The spasm may probably be taken off by dipping the glans penis into cold water, which succeeds sometimes in the common strangury; but this cannot be so easily done while a bougie is in the passage. In cases of a permanent stricture, though the bougie does not at first pass, yet, after repeated trials, it will every now and then find its way, which helps to render a future trial more certain and easy. It, however, too often happens that the future success does not immediately depend upon passing the bougie once or twice, for it shall pass today and not tomorrow ; and this uncertainty shall last for weeks, notwithstanding every trial we can make; yet I may observe, that in general its intro- duction becomes gradually less difficult, and therefore in no case should we despair of success. It is imagined by some that the best time for trial in these cases is just after making water, as the passage is sup- posed to be clear, and more in a straight line ; but this is not confirmed by practice. It is not an easy matter, in cases where the passage is very small, to know whether the bougie has entered the stricture or not, for such slender bougies as must generally be used at first bend so very easily, that the introducer is apt to think it is passing, while it is only bend- ing. A surgeon, however, should in general first make himself ac- quainted with the situation of the stricture, by a common-sized bougie, and afterwards make use of a smaller one, and when he comes to the stricture, push gently, and for a little time only. If the bougie has passed further into the penis, he will know how far it has entered the stricture by taking off the pressure from the bougie, for if it recoil he may be sure that it has not passed, at least has not passed far, but only bent; for the natural elasticity of the bougie, and the direction of the passage having been altered by it, will force it back again. But if it remain fixed, and do not recoil, he may be sure that it has entered the stricture. In using a very small bougie, however, these observations are not so applicable, for it may be bending, or bent, without being perceptible. It often happens that a bougie will enter only a little way, perhaps not more than one tenth of an inch, and then bend if the pressure be con- tinued. To determine whether this be the case, it is necessary to with- draw the bougie and examine its end : if the end be blunted, we may