DISEASES RESEMBLING THE LUES VENEREA. 471 though if they had not been formerly taken notice of, this would have been a very proper place. As the diseases in question are various, and not to be reduced to any system or order that I am acquainted with, I shall content myself with relating the cases, and thereby put it in the power of others to judge for themselves, if they should not be inclined to adopt the conclusions I have drawn from them. On the 28th of July, 1776, a gentleman, then in the West Indies, scratched the end of his finger with a thorn. On the 31st he opened an abscess on the shoulder of a negro woman who had the yaws, and had been long subject to such abscesses in different parts of the body, and to incurable ulcerations afterwards. At the instant after the opera-r tion he perceived a little of the matter upon the scratch, and exclaimed that he was inoculated. On the 2nd of August he amputated a boy’s finger, of thirteen years of age, for a sore resembling wormeaten wood. The scratch on his finger did not heal, but from time to time threw off whitish scales : this appearance alarmed him, and he rubbed in mercurial ointment very freely. Notwithstanding this, in the month of Septem- ber, a painful inflamed tumor appeared on the second joint of the finger, which was soon followed by several others on the back of the hand, in the course of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger. He still continued the mercurial friction, but without effect, for the tumors daily multiplied, and by the month of November extended to within a small distance of the axilla. They did not go on to suppuration at this time. About the end of November he began to be affected with severe nocturnal pains in different parts of the body, but especially along the tibia and fibula, with frequent severe headaches, which continued to increase to an almost intolerable degree for five months, though he used mercurial friction, with decoction of sarsaparilla, every day in great quantity. In the month of May, 1777, a scabby eruption appeared in different parts of the body, especially the legs and thighs, and the before-mentioned tumors ulcerated ; but this was followed by a remission of the nocturnal pains. He never could bring on a salivation, though his mouth was con- stantly tender, even for months. The ulcerations became daily worse, and a voyage to England was thought the only resource. He arrived in London the first of August, and by the advice of Dr. William Hunter and Sir John Pringle, he began again a course of mercury and sarsapa- rilla, with a milk diet. I was called in, and judging that two thirds of a grain of mercurius calcinatus, every day, was too small a dose, if it were judged to be venereal, it was ordered to be gradually increased to five grains ; and he continued this course till November, when all the sores were perfectly healed.