NOTES FROM A COL- LECTOR'S CATALOGUE With a Bibliography of English Cookery Books, By A. W. OXFORD.The University Library Leeds ft it ft The John F. Preston Collection of Cookery Books The Gift of Mr. Preston 1962 LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: f\ Otf 106 01 20 2503Collecting small things in a small way. NOTES FROM A COL- LECTOR’S CATALOGUE With a Bibliography of English Cookery Books, By A. W. OXFORD. XonOon: Messrs. JOHN and EDWARD BUMPUS, Limited, 350, Oxford Street.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 urn https://archive.org/details/b21525092CONTENTS. Chapter I.—Introduction Chapter II.—Cards and their accessories. Games Chapter III.—Old Silver Chapter IV.—Stay busks. Knitting needle sheaths Domestic implements Chapter V.—Writing materials. Seals Chapter VI.—Books. Diaries. Engravings .. Chapter VII.—Crime Chapter VIII.—Religious objects. Egyptian antiqui ties Chapter IX.—Calendars. Tokens. Clocks. Past Col lections Appendix A.—Cookery Books .. Appendix B.—Fountains Abbey Appendix C.—Marcus Aurelius and Epictetus .. PACK 1 2 6 IO 15 16 24 32 35 39 no 114- i !NOTES FROM A COLLECTOR’S CATALOGUE. CHAPTER I: Introduction. I must keep three rules if I wish to collect wisely— (1) Collect only what is beautiful or of great human interest. I must never let myself be carried away by a love of freaks, such as coins wrongly stamped, or books with mistakes in their title-pages, which were with- drawn from circulation as soon as the mistake was discovered. (2) Collect only things which are scarce ; let there be a clear limit to whatever is being collected. I have often found things common which at first seemed very rare. Now, before I go far in collecting a new thing, I ask myself, “ Can a millionaire over- take me in a week ? ” If it is probable he can, I send the collection to a salesroom, and start on something else. Moreover, I must not start on any branch which is too vast for modest means, but must call to mind how heedlessly I began collecting old china without any idea of the extent of the subject. (3) Give special attention to things which museums would be glad to possess. Even collectors have more or less of a socialist conscience, which needs at times to be comforted. As G. B. S. said to me long ago, “ It is a worthy2 thing to spend one’s surplus income in enriching the public museums.” Unfortunately, museums are too often confined to large towns, whereas every village ought to have one in which such things as smock frocks, flails, screeves, local engravings, should be preserved. If no proper building can be erected, why should not a part of the school or even of the church be used ? The history of a village is its sacred history. CHAPTER II. Cards and their Accessories. Games. I often wonder how bridge markers would have been made if the game had been played a hundred years ago. Certainly our forefathers would have produced something more artistic than the scoring blocks of the present day, if we are to judge them by their whist markers which were often very pretty. The problem was of course much simpler in whist as it was only to count from one to ten. Hoyle gives two methods of doing this with four counters :— One Two Three Four Five Six Seven Eight Nine 0 0 00 000 0 0 00 000 0000 00 000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 00 0 0 0 o 00 0 o 0 While the thousands scored with four coins of the realm, the hundreds carried in their pockets or wore on their chains special little boxes with four counters. The boxes and counters were made of various materials—gold, silver, ivory, bone, tortoise-shell, mother-of-pearl, porcelain, wood. Those for the chain were of gold or pinchbeck.3 The counters were either plain, or inscribed with devices or phrases. “ Keep your temper ” is a common motto. Nelson’s victories are frequently commemorated on them. Ger- man counters often have a different motto on each counter, and also the words simple, double, triple, quadruple. Some- times the counters or the box bear the method of scoring as an aid to memory; this is common on German counters. The counters often bear the numbers i, 2, 3, 4, by which it was made more easy to count from one to ten. At a later date boxes and counters were largely superseded by a dial, with a pointer which was pushed by the hand, or worked by pressing a spring. Patch boxes sometimes have a dial for marking whist on the cover. The prettiest of all the whist boxes are those of mother- of-pearl, which have sliding tops; and contain four mother- of-pearl counters, painted with some card of each of the four suits. I have four specimens of these, one in the shape of a butterfly. Silver boxes are very common, but rarely contain the counters. I have silver boxes containing George III. shillings, George III. three-penny bits, bone counters, but only one containing silver counters, and there are, unfortunately, only two of these. One has an enamelled heart in its centre, the other a diamond. Samuel Pemberton of Birmingham and John Toleken of Cork made many of the silver boxes. I have specimens of these, and also one made by R. B. of London in 1798. Porcelain counters are never in a box, and are usually, if not always, of foreign make. Mr. Stoner, of King Street, St. James’, gave me one set which he thought were Worcester, but they are marked simple, double, triple, quadruple, and are very like another set, clearly foreign, which he has since given me. Besides these I have two sets of Dresden make, marked with the cross-swords, and another set of foreign make. They are either painted with the four suits or with the four kings.4 Many of my boxes are very pretty. One is of leather with a glass bead top. Another consists of an iron plate inlaid with gold and pierced with holes for four pegs which are in a drawer below ; it stands on four legs. The most costly is a silver box, with four counters of almost pure gold, engraved by Loos. On the obverse of each of these is the representa- tion of some classical story, Atalanta, Argus, etc. ; on the reverse is an appropriate German motto. None of the boxes I have seen look older or bear an earlier hall mark than 1760. But there is another form of earlier date which seems to have been used for whist, as the boxes sometimes bear a dial on which the numbers run from one to ten. The complete form consists of a box containing four smaller boxes in which are counters. There are three complete specimens in the British Museum, two of ivory, and one of straw. One of the sets in ivory has a dial on each cover, and bears the inscription “ Mariaval le jeune a Paris fecit.” I have a complete set in ivory by the same maker— Mr. Alfred Trapnell has two, but one set has lost the enclosing box—and also three sets made of wood, gilt and painted, with markers of ivory. These complete sets are rare, al- though I have sometimes bought or been offered odd boxes. They all seem to be of a date between 1660 and 1720. Whist markers disappeared in the Victorian era. The latest in my collection is a German one, the counters of which are inscribed with the battles of the Franco-German War of 1870. Card tables sometimes have four hollows to contain the players’ counters. Where these hollows did not exist, it was convenient for each player to have a receptacle at his side, while there was a larger one in the centre of the table for the pool. * The most artistic of these were made of Battersea enamel, and they are the most common, although it is not easy to pick up a set of five. The five trays have the same pre- dominating colour throughout. Mr. Stoner, who is an authority on Battersea enamel, has seen six varieties, viz.,5 white, pink, dark and light green, dark and turquoise blue. The usual shape is hexagonal, each side being the arc of a circle, but Mr. Trapnell has a circular set which Mr. Stoner, who sold them to him, says is the only specimen he has ever seen. A rare variety is made of salt glaze, the five trays fitting into one another like a supper service, and decorated with the suits of cards. I have only seen one complete set; one of the trays bore the inscription “ a token of regard 1772.” An odd tray from another set had the initials “ W. T.” on it. I have a set made of cardboard lined with silk, and another made of papier mache. The latter form is the most modern, and is fairly common. Small silver trays are sometimes seen which seem just the thing for holding counters, although the trade assert they are all stands for wine funnels, as some certainly are. Those which look most like counter trays are generally of Dublin make. I have two about the year 1800, which I am willing to allow were for funnels, but two others of the years 1729 and 1736 I still hold were for counters. The trade is not always right. Gaming tickets are sometimes found at sales and with coin dealers, made of wood, tortoise-shell, and ivory. They vary in designation from 10 shillings to 100 pounds. I have seen several with the word “ White’s ” on them, and have a guinea token thus marked, but have not come across the name of any other club. Some day I must collect dice boxes. I have two Crom- wellian ones in leather, one of ivory in the shape of a gavel, and another of ivory with a little silver snail as thumb-piece. I have seen domino boxes worth collecting, but I have only one, which is in the shape of a barrel. I have a brass box with 27 medals, which have a scriptural text on each side. They were, perhaps, used for a Sunday game.6 CHAPTER III: Old Silver. Just as I was starting in the dangerous pursuit of collecting old silver, I was fortunate enough to come across the learned firm of Pairpoint Brothers, 8oa, Dean Street, Soho. This firm has made modern silver and repaired and sold antique silver for so many years, that if the three brothers agree that a certain piece is genuine, its owner may face the world with- out fear. At the same time he may be sure that he has only paid a reasonable price. I began with useful articles, such as three-pronged forks, milk jugs, trencher salt cellars, pepper pots, and derived much pleasure from finding out their date and maker, with the aid of Cripps, and later, of Mr. C. J. Jackson, who has represented most accurately the shape of the shield, the form of the lion, the small turn of some letters, on all of which the date depends. But I soon learned the joy of forming a series, and began with caddy spoons. I determined to have a London series, and end with 1821. No self-respecting collector could go beyond that year, in the latter half of which the poor leopard not only lost his crown but was transformed into a common cat. It would be a good thing if our present King would insist on a decent leopard with the old crown and restore the sovereign’s head which, first used in 1784, was removed in 1890 on account of the abolition of the duty on silver plate. I did not know how far I should have to go back until an article by Mrs. Head in the Connoisseur for January, 1907, mentioned that the earliest specimen known is 1783. I have that date and now only need 1821, 1819, 1816, 1806, 1793, 1789, 1785, 1784, and of course 1782. I remember the date letters by the lines Capital U is Waterloo. While E begins the Century.1 7 I have also made a series of London vinaigrettes, and have a run from 1797 to 1821, with the one exception of 1820. Birmingham vinaigrettes are far more common and go further back. I possess one of 1796 and have seen one of 1791. It is interesting to notice the change in the perforated plate from perfect simplicity to lavish ornament. There is not a great variety in the form of the box itself. Circular ones for suspension are the rarest and are nearly all of Birming- ham make, though I have a London one of the year 1816. I have an oval one for suspension bearing the London mark for 1803, which is unlike any other I have ever seen ; and another of most unusual shape with the Birmingham mark for 1801. There are other silver boxes for holding perfume which are worth collecting. Pomanders are, of course, out of the question, but I have collected several little boxes which unscrew top aqd bottom, the top compartment having a perforated plate. I used to think these were for holding pounce and wafers; but Mr. Drane, of Cardiff, who seems to know all that is to be known about everything, insisted they were for liquid and solid perfume, and I have been converted to his opinion by finding remains of the latter in a specimen lately bought. They are sometimes in the shape of a vase, oftener in the shape of an egg ; all my specimens are of foreign make. The finest has the cover made into a whistle. It is in its original red leather case and is stamped on one side with MEW and the other with 1736 ; on the bottom is I W. I have also a few little bottles used for scent. One is a silver mounted nut engraved A J S, 1748. Another has E A on one side,- on the other a double-headed eagle with a cursive E A below ; at the bottom is the maker’s mark, IN STER- LING, i.e., John Nicolson of Cork. At one time I collected nutmeg boxes with much vigour, and have now over 150 in silver, beside others made of Batter- sea enamel, wood, Sheffield plate, iron, brass, ivory, etc. This is not such a numerous collection as that of Mr. Guy Oswald Smith, which was for some time exhibited at South J8 Kensington, and which is described in the Connoisseur for November, 1907 ; but I have all his varieties except the cylinder, dated 1818, in plate B. These boxes go back to the Stuart period, and died out in the early days of Queen Victoria. The earliest marked specimen I have seen was of the year 1695, but there seemed more serious objections to it than its price. The next earliest, bearing a date letter, is a London one of 1774 in my possession. These boxes were carried about for each man to spice his punch to his liking. The typical variety is a small box opening at the top for the grater and at the bottom for the nutmeg, but they were also made in the shape of eggs, vases, barrels, cylinders, etc. A useful variety is one which con- tains a corkscrew. The earliest boxes are either in the shape of a heart, opening top and bottom, or of a cylinder with two compart- ments, one shallow for the nutmeg, the other deep for a circular grater. None of mine have any mark except that of the maker. Several are marked T K in a shield, which does not correspond with any of those given in Jackson. Though nutmeg boxes must have been in very common use—a grater is generally found in old cases of implements— there are very few allusions to them in books. Edward Fitzgerald in a letter writes of one in his possession, and Charles Dickens mentions them in the last chapter of “ David Copperfield,” and in “ The Battle of Life.” They often bear inscriptions. On one, which I found in Munich, bearing the Birmingham mark of 1807, is “ Zum Andenken ” ; on another, “ Sans cet ami point de vie ” ; on an early one by T. K., “ Mary Moss anno 1710. Amoris tela omium quaerela ” ; the engraver perhaps is responsible for the mistake. About 1805 a larger variety came into use which was not for the pocket but to hang in the room. It consists of a grater, semi-cylindrical in shape, with a box underneath for the nutmeg. At this time the ordinary boxes tended to become larger and were for the table rather than for the pocket.9 Nutmeg boxes usually bear the London or Birmingham mark. I have only one Irish and one Scotch. The former is a beautiful Dublin one of the year 1789, the latter is a poor specimen and undated. The only two boxes, whose original owners are known to me by name, belonged to Beau Brummel and Southey. The first, engraved with a B on the cover and made in London in 1782 by Thomas Phipps and Edward Robinson, who were the principal makers of these boxes, was sold at Christie’s with other relics of Brummel in 1899. The other was sold in the Walter collection in 1904 in the West of England. Inside is a note in Mr. Walter’s writing, “ This nutmeg grater belonged to Southey the Poet, given to me by his grand-daughter.” It bears the London hall mark of 1786. Snuff boxes are really barred by my second rule, but I have a dozen or so. One, with the Exeter mark for 1805, is in the shape of a coffin as was that of Mr. Sowerberry in “ Oliver Twist.” I have seen another of the same dismal shape. A second is a very fine specimen, silver gilt, with the London mark for 1805, opening top and bottom for two different kinds of snuff, and bearing the crest of the Prince of Wales. A third, very small, made in Birmingham in 1808, is interesting from its containing at one end a vinaigrette ; it perhaps belonged to a lad}7. Best of all I like to collect small articles which are unique, or, at any rate, very rare. If I could afford it, I would collect pomanders. But I have been able to get together several interesting things at a far less price. Some have been men- tioned ; others are a little box with a wonderful double hinge of the year 1800 ; a little sweetmeat box, fully marked, of the year 1687 ; a travelling candlestick of 1795 ; a toy tea- pot of William III. ; a shagreen case with sugar tongs and six spoons of the same reign ; a wine cup of 1710, a memento mori. I often wish I had collected old silver with more vigour. Every year the price goes up. And yet it is only about forty years ago, at Lord Willoughby d’Eresby’s sale, that Christie’sIO catalogued the dates of the silver to be sold. And Mr. A. Pairpoint well remembers a dealer who melted all the Queen Anne spoons which came into his possession on account of their higher standard, which brought a few pence more per ounce. CHAPTER IV; Stay Busks. Knitting Needle Sheaths. Domestic Implements. The large majority of stay busks which are now seen have obviously belonged to the working classes. They are either of wood or of whalebone, the latter carved by sailors as is shown by the material and the design. The Marquis of Exeter, however, is said to possess one or more which belonged to Queen Elizabeth, and I have an ivory one which must have belonged to a lady of high degree. Eleven wooden ones are illustrated in the Reliquary for January, 1906. Of these 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 are now in my possession. I have seven others, of which six are very similar to those described in the Reliquary. The first is rudely carved with a heart and wavy lines, and seems to have had several owners as it bears the initials M.D., A.B., I.R., on the front, and T., M., C., on the back ; the C. is repeated three times. The date is 1797. There are three holes at the top and one at the bottom to secure the busk to the stays. It is a foot long, two inches broad at the top, tapering to one inch ; convex on the outside. It was in the Bidwell collection but not illustrated in the Reliquary. The second has very deep carving on both front and back, the decoration consisting of hearts. It is a foot long and three inches wide for nearly its whole length, tapering to a * See also Reliquary for July, 1903.II point two inches from the end. It is triangular on cross- section. The third is 12£ inches long, ij inches wide, narrowing to a point; triangular on cross-section. At the back are the initials R.E., J.E., and the date 1798. It is carved in front with hearts and foliage and the figures 19, which perhaps represent the lady’s age when the busk was given her. The fourth is 13^ inches long, if inches wide, narrowing very gradually to £ inch, convex on the outer side. The back is not carved but has a groove running down the middle from end to end. The front is carved with the initials M.C., several hearts, circles, birds, and the sun. On the back is written in ink, “ Stay Busk used by Mary Cousins, died July 19, 1815, aged 32.” This was given me by Mr: Stoner. The fifth is n£ inches long, z\ inches wide, tapering to a point, carved on the outer side. The initials A.B. are on the back, the front is deeply carved with a lozenge-shaped orna- ment, and at the top with sun, moon, stars, heart, etc. The sixth is I2f inches long, 2f inches wide, gradually tapering to a point. It is triangular on cross-section. The back is plain ; the front carved with figures-of-8 and other geometrical designs. The seventh is a very superior one. It is 11 inches long, 1J inches at its widest point, £ inch thick, triangular on cross- section. The top three inches are formed by the figure of a lady fastening her stays. On one side of the front are the initials T.U., E.U., hearts, the sun, and masonic emblems; on the other are the moon, stars, and a plant in a pot. The back is carved with flowers and foliage, with “ Thomas Under- wood ” at the top. Running from top to bottom was “ Eliza- beth Underwood,” but this name has been converted by cross lines into decorative ornament. The course of true love did not run smooth in this case. Of those carved by sailors I have nine. Three are black, made of what is popularly called whalebone; the other six12 are made out of the whale’s real bone, and are of course white. They are all flat with rounded ends, from 13 to 15 inches long,* and about 2 inches wide. They taper much less than the wooden pnes, and two are the same width throughout. The backs are all plain. The first (black) is carved with five different shrubs. The second (black) with two ships, a whale, and the initials S.W. The third with a castle, bridge, and house. At one end are two hearts and “ Love,” at the other a trumpet and ears of corn. The fourth with two ships lying off a native village. The fifth with flowers and foliage, a heart transfixed by arrows, and the initials J.K. The sixth with the figure of a sailor, under which is the word “ arrived.” Above are a ship and a transfixed heart; below a basket of flowers. The seventh with a ship and four boats engaged in whaling. Above is a tomb with two trees ; below a plant in a pot. It has been badly pierced with five holes. The eighth (black) with ships, fish, flowers, and the name “ Mary Pringle.” The ninth with ships and a sailor holding a flag. The last two are from the Bidwell collection. An unusual variety is a broad ivory one, concave from side to side. It is only 9 inches long, and over 3 inches wide. There is a hole in the top, and a row of holes on the lower half of each side. It is not carved. The ivory one which I mentioned above is of much earlier date, and of a far superior workmanship to any of the others. It is sixteen inches long, f-inch wide, tapering slightly at the bottom. It is convex in front, with a ridge in the centre, running almost from top to bottom. There is a row of 23 semi-circles with triangles between carved on each side of the front. At the back are flowers and foliage surrounding three * Those of 15 inches long must have been uncomfortable, but I was once offered a whalebone one, the length of which was 19 inches.13 panels. On the top one is a heart with four arrows round it, and the words “ Pas un ne m’attrape ” ; on the middle one a heart with an arrow through it and the words “ Un seul me blesse ” ; on the bottom are two hearts in flames with the inscription “ L’Amour les joint.” There are two holes at the lower end. Knitting needle holders are carved even now in some parts of the country, but the active life of to-day admits of only very plain specimens, and gives no time for the orna- mental sheaths cut by our forefathers. These knitting sticks are much commoner than stay busks, but good specimens are in great request by collectors, and foolish dealers spoil a good many by carving on them fictitious dates. There are articles on them in the Reliquary for July 1903 and April 1904. I have several wooden ones, but only three of much interest. One is quadrangular, with three compartments in it. The two upper compartments have each a small round ball which is cut out of the solid ; the lower compartment has a central carved pillar. There is a slot to fix the stick to the belt. The whole is carved with geometrical ornament. The other two are of the class illustrated in the Reliquary for April 1904, pages 126, 7. The stick of each of these is 5 inches long, f-inch square on section, with a deep vertical slot to fasten to belt. Attached to the stick is a chain, in one case of seven, in the other of eight, links, at the end of which is another stick carved with two projections for carrying balls of worsted. In both cases the whole is carved out of one piece of wood. There is an inscription covered with glass on each of them. On the first is— “ Remember me when this you see And bear me in your mind. Wm; Nelson, Nov; 9th* 1831.” On the second— “ When this you see think on me If many many miles whe distant be.”14 In spite of the spelling this second specimen is of very su- perior workmanship, both the upper and lower sticks being inlaid with pieces of wood of different colours. On one of these is carved “ Miss I’anson.” There is a box to hold it which has an inlay on the bottom. Besides these wooden ones I have a silver one, two of plaited quills mounted in silver, an iron one with ornaments and the letters M N Z I, one of leather mounted in silver with the initials of the owner R. R. S., and with the silver- smith’s mark. Those of silver, and of quills mounted in silver, are fairly common, those of iron very rare, of leather still rarer. I also have a most beautiful specimen, ten inches long, made of bead work, with flower and chain ornament. It looks far too fragile for use, and must have been made to show to what perfection bead work can be brought. Among miscellaneous domestic things are a reel stand ; an instrument for goffering caps which looks like the model of a guillotine ; a few lace bobbins (window bobbins and specimens with names or mottoes are always interesting) ; two straw-splitters ; a few snuff rasps (I sold the best speci- mens years ago) ; buckles (silver and paste); Chinese nail protectors ; cases with implements ; needle cases ; bodkin cases ; patch boxes (mostly ivory, but I have two of silver, one London of 1799, the other Birmingham of 1796) ; a silver case with London hall-mark of 1799, containing tooth- brush, box, and tongue-scraper ; a box of silver weights, old French. All these form the starting points of collections which I have never found interest or time to undertake.15 CHAPTER v Writing Materials. Seals. Without any definite search I have collected a few travelling ink-holders. A common variety is made of silver with a screw top. My specimen is of the year 1814, but I have seen them as early as the reign of George II. Another common variety is made of tortoise-shell, and contains in addition to the inkstand a silver pen and penholder and seal. Inside the lid is a looking-glass. One of my specimens is said to have belonged to Lady Byron. A third common variety is made of leather, and also con- tains pen and penholder of silver, as well as an inkstand. One of my specimens has a silver box for wafers underneath the inkstand ; it is marked I B. More interesting than ink-holders are pounce boxes, which were used for sprinkling powder over freshly written paper before the invention of blotting paper. They are still used in small towns on the Continent. Most old silver and porcelain inkstands have one by the side of the ink bottle. I have one in Bristol and one in Plymouth china which illus- trate very plainly the points of difference and likeness in the two factories ; two in wood ; one of Spode china; one of Battersea enamel. I have also a little silver-gilt one of the sixteenth century, but it is possible that it is for scent and not for pounce. A common variety is of iron, oblong in shape, with an inner box sliding under the perforated outer box. One of mine is engraved “ Moses Basse Coroner Wend- over Bucks 1779,” and the holes are arranged to read “ Success to trade.” Another is engraved “ S. Greenwood Draper &c.” Wafer boxes are sometimes met with, but I have only one. It is made of tortoise-shell and silver, with a negro’s head at the top. Seals are innumerable, and belong to all nations and alli6 ages. Of English ones I have collected and given away hundreds, and still they keep coming in a steady flow, for they always appeal to me. The prettiest set I have con- sists of three and a watch key on a ring. Each of these five articles is made of a gold snake, with little diamonds for eyes. One seal bears a crest, a second a coat of arms, the third an initial. The date is about 1780. Another consists of 11 seals in a silver box. The box is open at one end so that the seal at the bottom makes an impress. It must have been clumsy to use. CHAPTER VI. Books. Diaries.- Engravings. Books are most dangerous things to collect, unless one collects with method. I have made many efforts in different direc- tions, swimming, polygamy, English spas, etc., and have at last restricted myself almost entirely to the collection of old English cookery books anterior to 1700. These are all that remains of a foolish attempt to collect old medical books which, if carried out with perseverance, would have filled my house with books. Medicine and cookery are often found united in very attractive little volumes in the seven- teenth century, and on clearing out the medical books I still kept these compound treatises, and thus drifted into the collecting of all cookery books provided they were English, and earlier than 1700. In an Appendix I have given a bibliography, and hope it may be useful to any who wish to start a research into this branch of study. Apart from cookery books I am only collecting with zeal the early English translations of Marcus Aurelius and Epictetus, a list of which are in an Appendix. I have a few interesting books left from much miscel- laneous collecting, and am especially fond of three.i7 (1) L’Art de se rendre heureux par les songes; c’est a dire en se procurant telle espece de songes que l’on puisse desirer conformement a ses inclinations. Franc- fort et Leipsig MDCCXLVI. I bought this book on account of the great admiration I have for Peter Ibbetson. It may be that Du Maurier got the idea from it, but certainly nothing more.* According to Brunet it is a book “ Singulier et assez rare.” My copy is in the original calf, with the arms of Francois-Jean Orceau de Fontelle on the cover. Strange indeed are the dreams required, the receipts to obtain them, and the methods of using the receipts. It is not a book for young people. The author points out at the end that by a combination of different receipts one may add to the variety of the dreams, but it is not possible to quote the combinations he suggests. Brunet’s adjective is certainly the one to apply to the book. Who could want a receipt “ pour rever que Ton est sur mer au milieu des tonneres, des eclairs, et des plus affreuses tem- petes”? Yet the author gives two, one compounded of stramonium seeds and powdered oyster shells. (2) Blackguardiana. This is a slang dictionary attributed by Lowndes to James Caulfield. A charming portrait of Nancy Parsons and a view of the execution of Mary Blandy led to my buying it. Some of the expressions are very curious, such as “ japanning ” for ordination, “ Purest pure ” for ladies at the top of their profession as was Nancy Parsons herself, “ liquoring one’s boots” for extreme unction. (3) Tractatus varii de pulicibus. This is a German book, printed about the end of the seventeenth century. The first part consists of the discussion of 46 questions, e.g., “ Anne Pulex paena capitali ob morsum possit affici ? ” “ Anne Pulex foeminae nobilioris sit nobilior et melioris con- ditionis quam Pulex plebeiae ? ” The second part is “ Laus * He found the word Trilby in Charles Nodier’s Contes. Ci8 et defensio Pulicum ” ; the third “ Vituperium et damnatio Pulicum ” ; the fourth “ Cortum versicale de Flois.” The book ends with an epitaph— Pulchra Pulex teneras penetrat dum membra puellae ; Clamque subit niveum dente premente femur ; Comprimitur digitis, et nigro clauditur Oreo : Sed dedit hoc illi Distichon alma Venus : Mortuus hie jaceo, sed not hie mortuus ; ardens Dum premor albenti pollice, vivo Pulex. There is a delightful frontispiece of ladies hunting for the pulex out of doors, in the kitchen, parlour, bedroom. Diaries and commonplace books sometimes turn up at sales and in catalogues, are often cheap, and are always of interest. My two favourites cost me least. (i) The first is a small note-book labelled “ Pocock’s Dramatic Mems.”, sold in Marylebone Lane for half-a-crown. I bought this because I thought the writer was one of the Bristol family, and on examining the book found I was right. It is a diary kept during the years 1833 and 1834 by Isaac Pocock, the eldest son of Nicholas Pocock, the painter. He was born in 1782, was a pupil of Romney, came into money in 1818, and from that year to his death in 1835 gave himself up to the drama. The diary opens with an account of the proceeds of “ The Ferry and the Mill,” which was played from Oct. 21 to Nov. 11 (except on Sundays and Tuesdays, when “ Miss Kelly appeared in the ‘ Maid and Magpie,’ ”) and for a few times afterwards. He received £16 13s. 4d. for each of the first nine performances, and £5 for each of the next ten, making a total of £200. He received nothing for subsequent perfor- mances. Mr. Bunn was slow in payment, and on Jan. 22, when he brought the amount up to £150, “ talked of a mis- take about terms.” The last £50 was not paid until April. There is little in the diary except references to the drama, dramatic criticisms, and Mr. Bunn ; but all is interesting. t19 The last entry is a list of plays which he wants to be put on, one being “ The child and her doll,” which, “ if not produced soon, Miss Poole will be too old and the effect lost unless another clever child turns up.” (2) Far more interesting to me than Pocock’s Dramatic Mems. is the weekly report book of the Rev. W. Valentine, who was chaplain and house governor to the London Hospital. Two volumes covering the years 1826-1830 were knocked down to me at Puttick and Simpson’s for three shillings and sixpence. Mr. Valentine appeals to me in many ways. He was a parson, so am I. He was connected with the London Hospital where I was a student for four or five happy years. As I am, so was he, a collector, for on Nov. 27, 1827, he reports,- “ During last week I was not a little alarmed for my Black Letter riches, in consequence of an unusual degree of heat through the wall where the flue of the Chapel and passage stove passes in my Library.” I can even recall enough of my youthful curate days to understand his weakness in showing decided preferences for those of the staff who were regular at Chapel. It was this weakness which caused trouble, for the diary of these years is full of two battles which he was for ever fighting against the apothecary and the cook, both of whom entirely neglected his ministrations. The diary un- fortunately ends with the fate of the contests still undecided. Some day I must revisit “ The London,” and ask the Secretary to tell me the result. In June, 1826, Mr. Valentine writes a long report of six pages to the Committee who had been weak enough to sustain an appeal of the cook against an order of his that the porters should dine in the kitchen. The porters are mentioned in subsequent entries as being regular at Chapel. The Com- mittee, at the cook’s request, had ordered that the porters should dine in the outer kitchen, and in spite of the six pages refuse to reverse their decision. One would think the porters would have rather dined at a safe distance from the cook, whom one of them described as being “ more like a tiger than20 a woman,” but on July 4, Mr. Valentine once more pleads for them “ as being entitled to consideration and to be made comfortable, but now they are made exceedingly uncomfort- able, and no single reason have I heard stated for the arrange- ment which makes them so, except forsooth that a cook requires a kitchen of 30 feet by 20 as a kind of whited sepul- chre for herself alone.” To this the Chairman adds a note} “ In order that silence may not be again construed into appro- bation, I must object to the style of this as I have of some former reports.” So long as there were no complaints about the cooking, the Committee were probably wise in supporting the human tigress in spite of her neglect of Chapel, and her unwillingness to have the porters dining in her kitchen. But it seems strange that they did not get rid of Mr. Valentine’s other enemy the apothecary. This official should have combined . the duties of a resident medical officer and a head dispenser: But he neglected the dispensary, kept his books in an unin- telligible manner, practised out of doors, kept late hours, was sometimes out all night, and was frequently drunk. On one occasion he is said to have been “ in the pupils’ rooms in such a state as to allow the Pupils to smear butter over his head under the pretence of suiting the action to the words, which were in shape of professions of determination to stand by him.” Shortly afterwards, “ the Patrol came to the Hospital stating that the apothecary came to the gates of the Hospital about two or three o’clock that morning in a coach, and he being very intoxicated the coachman imposed on him.” Yet all the Committee did was to reprimand him and raise his salary. There are many entries in the report book which show the enormous change which the last 70 years have brought about in hospital life. “ In case of operation an additional woman shall be hired* till the Surgeon might deem haemorrhage no longer to be apprehended.” “ The expenditure of leeches, amounting to 4,800 in the21 last month, which at 12s. per hundred cost the Hospital £28 16s.” “ Complaint has been made to me by the matron that an altercation was occasioned in Charlotte ward between two Patients, in consequence of one of them having stated that a Pupil came into the ward at a late hour (about twelve at night), and either sat or lay on the bed of the other patient. She told, first, the nurse of the ward, who appeared to take part with the accused party, and she having rather coarsely designated this other patient for, as she supposed, encouraging the Pupil, the nurse thought proper to taunt her with her having received the sacrament. This patient has been in the Hospital before, and on both occasions has conducted herself with great propriety. The only fault appears to have been the coarse term which she applied to the other Patient, but which there is too much reason to fear she has in some degree subjected herself.” “ Finding the difficulty of obtaining creditable women for assistant nurses, who can write, I have thought proper to suggest that it would be better to relax from the plan re- quiring all to write. It is found, that only the very refuse, who can write, offer themselves for such situations, whereas of those that cannot write, very creditable and suitable might be obtained, and the possibility of danger may be obviated, by requiring the nurse to get up, whenever medicine is required to be given during the night, which is found not to occur, on an average, more than once in a week, in each ward. I have directed that the matron present one of these assistants, who cannot write (hired last week), to the Committee to-day, that they may have an opportunity of judging of the persons refused under the present regulations and to decide the question.” “ But there are a great number of patients to whom porter might be beneficial, tho’ not so necessary as to justify the medical gentlemen in putting the Hospital to the expense ; but they themselves, or their friends might supply them. The objection has been that porter would be improperly22 introduced to other patients, but this might be obviated by the apothecary giving a ticket to such patients as might have (a pint more or less) porter, and the assistant of the ward getting it daily for them. ... I have made personal and other enquiries at several of the Hospitals, and find that at St. Thomas’s the nurses are allowed to bring in porter for patients who can buy it, and when not forbidden by medical men, and it is ordered from whom the patients think proper.” “ On Saturday a patient named Habfield, formerly a grocer of Aldgate, was buried in the Hospital ground. On Monday morning some wretches had disinterred the body, but some of the patients saw them from the ward windows (about 5 o’clock) and the fellows left the body in a sack partially covered, in the ground to the horror and disgust of all who saw it. The man was 76 years of age, and being in a state of putrefaction the parts of the body which were exposed through the broken sack, all the thighs and legs, were denuded of the skin, and of course presented a shocking sight. Having gone to see it, I directed the immediate reinterment.” Here, however, is an entry which is often found in Hospital reports of to-day :— “ Potatoes very bad ; frequent complaints have been made to the Contractor, but no remedy.” I have a few old prints of the Hospital, also “ An account of the rise, progress, and state of the London-Hospital, or Infirmary ; ; . . from the first institution on the 3d of November, 1740, to the 17th of March, 1750-51 inclusive.” This document has, at its head, an engraving after Hogarth. The expense of maintenance from March, 1750, to March, 1751, was £3,063 14s. 6d. I have also “ Rules and orders for the London-Hospital, as reviewed, enlarged, and confirmed by a General Quarterly Court, held the 15th of December, 1756.” This last pamphlet sheds much light on many of the entries in Mr. Valentine’s report books. The full diet for patients in 1756 included “ three pints of beer in summer, one quart in winter ” ; middle diet, “ 1 pint of beer ” ; low diet, “ no beer.” Jews were “ to be allowed two-pence23 half-penny per day in lieu of meat or broth, but to receive bread and beer like the other Patients, according to the diet they are on.” I have collected engravings in only a very small way. At one time I collected the different prints of Nelly O’Brien, and later those of Kitty Fisher. I was much in love with these ladies, and one of my deepest regrets was failing to buy a charming letter from Nelly to one of her lovers which came up for sale at Sotheby’s some years ago. I even meditated writing their lives and collected some material, but just at that time some rare editions of Marcus Aurelius and Epictetus fell in my way and revived my old love for them; The Stoics conquered the ladies. I should much like to see the old fashion of engraving the portraits of famous beauties flourish again. Why do not ladies insist on being etched or engraved instead of being photographed ? To get engraved was the effort in old days. “ She never yet had the pleasure of seeing herself in the Print-Shop, and how to procure that honour, and fix a more general attention on her accomplishments was the question.”* Perhaps Helleu will set the fashion. The only other prints I have collected are views of Guy’s Hospital, which I bought for my sister, and of Fountains Abbey: A list of books and prints relating to this Abbey are in an Appendix. . , * Memoirs of an embroidered waistcoat, 1751. Vol II., 14.24 CHAPTER VII: Crime.- Gaols and executions have always had a terrifying fascina- tion for me. Once, in my childhood, a seaside holiday was shadowed throughout by the fact that the steamer which was to bring me home would pass the city prison. In my dreams I have been hanged hundreds of times and have often played the part of hangman.- This fascination is responsible, I suppose, for some of the ghastly relics in my collection. It is astonishing that capital punishment still exists in England ; it is still more astonishing that men can be found to undertake the loathsome office of hangmen. Yet men can be found who take a pleasure and even a pride in the business. One in modern times, 'disparaging the talents of his pre- decessor as compared with his own, was wont to say, “ He hanged them, I execute them.” Still as boiling, in the case of women murdering their husbands and servants murdering their mistresses, gave way to burning, and burning to strang- ling followed by burning, and this to simple hanging, so inevitably capital punishment will be swept away. I do not know when the law first allowed a woman, sen- tenced to the fire, to be first strangled, but it was certainly as early as 1726 when we read of the executioner failing to strangle Catherine Hayes on account of the fire burning his hand. Yet as late as 1776 a judge named Sir Henry Gould seemed to regret the mitigation. In sentencing a woman at York for aiding and abetting in the murder of her husband, after a few introductory remarks, he proceeded : “ The law of man, consistent with that of the gospel, has determined, that there is a submission due from the wife to her husband, and a degree of subordination the husband has over the wife, therefore constitutes a degree of allegiance from the wife to25 her husband, as her head, which, if she transgresses, is called by the law, a small, or light degree of treason. “ For this offence, and in order to deter women from break- ing their marriage vows (and from the evidence we have heard given, you have done), the law has stamped a punishment full of ignominy upon such offenders. “ The sentence which the law obliges me to pass upon you, is, That you, Elizabeth Boardingham, shall be led from this to the gaol from whence you came, and from thence upon Wednesday next, you shall be drawn upon a hurdle to the place of execution, and there you are to be burnt with fire till you are dead, and your body consumed to ashes. There is nevertheless, such a spirit of lenity in the common law of this country, tho’ this is the sentence you have received, and, for my own part, do not believe that sentence could ever be more properly executed in the strict letter thereof, than upon you, however severe the punishment is, that you, who have been found guilty of a crime of the greatest magnitude, are con- demned to undergo, the law has allowed some mitigation : You are first to be strangled at a stake, and then to be burnt with fire. You have reason to admire the excellency of that constitution by which you have been tried and found guilty.” It is difficult to see what Elizabeth had to “ admire ” or to discover the “ spirit of lenity in the common law ” which for ioi years after this date condemned men, women, and children to capital punishment for small thefts.* Davey in his “ Pageant of London,” states that Christine Murphy, strangled on March 18, 1789, was the last woman whose body was burnt in London. As an undergraduate I had the privilege of many walks with Canon Liddon. On one of these he poured out his indignation on the bench of Bishops who had been doing some- * In Scotland capital punishment was inflicted for very slight offences against morality. In 1630 Alexander Blair was beheaded for living with his first wife’s half-brother’s daughter.” In 1705 one Drysdale was banished for life for cohabiting once only with Barbara Tannahill, his deceased wife’s sister. Barbara herself was hanged./ 26 thing useless or pernicious in the House of Lords. “ Why don’t they do something useful,” he said to me, “ such as introducing a more humane method for the execution of criminals.” As a young man he had attended a murderer on the scaffold at Bristol, and he never forgot the scene. The present method has led to horrid spectacles, even in the last 50 years; but when capital punishment was inflicted for theft the accidents in carrying it out were so numerous as to hardly receive any public notice. When twenty people were hanged at one time at Tyburn, it was to be expected that such would occur. Even if there was no accident, the cere- mony must have been tedious; and I much admire the man who, weary of waiting, hanged himself in his cart while his fellow sufferers were being prepared. But he created a scandal at the time by his unseemly conduct. Friends were allowed to assist in the execution by pulling the legs of the culprits, and doubtless often made only a pretence of this while in reality they supported the body in the hope of resuscitation as soon as it was in their possession. For the body was handed over to friends on the payment of 15s. 6d. to the hangman. I have in my collection a formal receipt given at a later period when executions took place at Newgate. Silvester. 1813. Nov. 16. Executioner Fees Stripping the body Use of Shell s. d. 7 6 4 6 3 6 Reed, of Mr. Chas. Gale. 15 6 John Sylvester, aged 21, was hanged for extorting £5 from Richard Gunning, a hatter of Oxford Street, in Millhill Mews on the evening of June 20.27 In the 18th century when criminals were brought to life, they were usually transported. I have an engraving of William Duell, aged 16, who revived after execution, and references to many others who had a similar experience. But in early days they were strung up again without hesitation. In the register of St. George’s Church, Southwark, 1610, is the entry, “ Michael Banks, out of King’s Bench Prison. Executed. Did revive again. Was in the vestry three hours, and was then carried back and executed again.” I have a little book called “ A murderer punished and pardoned,” which relates “ the wicked life and shameful-happy death of Thomas Savage,” who was hanged on Oct. 28, 1668, at the age of 15, for killing his fellow-servant. “ After he was turned off the cart he struggled for a while, heaving up his body, which a young man (his friend) seeing, to put him quickly out of his pain, struck him with all his might on the breast several times together, then no motion was perceived in him, and hanging some considerable time after that, . . . the Sheriff commanded him to be cut down. . . : Layed upon a Table, unto the astonishment of the beholders, he began to stir and breathe. . . . But his reviving being known, within four hours the officers came to the house where he was, and conveyed him to the place of execution again, and hung him up again, until he was quite dead, whence he was con- veyed by his mourning friends to Islington, where he now sleepeth in the bed of his grave, until the morning of the Resurrection, from whence though buried in dishonour, he will then be raised in glory.” The classic instance, of course, is that of Anne Greene, aged 22, who was hanged at Oxford in 1651. The narrative is to be found in “ Newes from the Dead,” a pamphlet written by Richard Watkins, of Christ Church, and of which there were at least two editions. To the story are added English and Latin “ poems casually written upon that subject.” Christopher Wren and Anthony a Wood are among the poets. “ She was turned off the Ladder, hanging by the neck for the space of almost half-an-houre, some of her friends in the mean 428 time thumping her on the breast, others hanging with all their weight upon her legges ; sometimes lifting her up, and then pulling her downe againe with a suddaine jerke, thereby the sooner to dispatch her out of her paine, insomuch that the Under-Sheriffe fearing lest thereby they should breake the rope, forebad them to do so any longer. At length when every one thought she was dead, the body being taken downe, and put into a coffin, was carried thence into a private house, where some Physicians had appointed to make a Dissection. The coffin being opened, she was observed to breath, and in breathing (the passage of her throat being streightened) ob- scurely to ruttle ; which being perceived by a lusty fellow that stood by, he (thinking to do an act of charity in ridding her out of the small reliques of a painfull life) stamped severall times on her breast and stomack with all the force he could. Immediately after, there came in Dr. Petty, our Anatomy- Professor, and Mr. Thomas Willis, of Christ-Church, at whose comming, which was about 9 a clock in the morning, she yet persisted to ruttle as before, laying all this while stretched out in the coffin in a cold roome and season of the yeare. They perceiving some life in her, as well for humanity as their Profession-sake, fell presently to act in order to her recovery. . . . Whilst the Physicians were thus busie in recovering her to life, the undersheriffe was solliciting the Governor and the rest of the Justices of Peace for the obtaining her reprieve, that in case she should for that present be recovered fully to life, shee might not bee had backe againe to execution. Whereupon those worthy gentlemen, considering what had happened, weighing all circumstances, they readily appre- hended the hand of God in her preservation, and being willing rather to co-operate with divine providence in saving her, than to overstriene justice by condemning her to double shame and sufferings, they were pleased to grant her a re- preive untill such time as her pardon might be compleatly obtained.” Ultimately Anne Greene “ had liberty to re- paire (and is since gone) unto her friends in the Country ; taking with her the Coffin wherein she lay, as a Trophey of this29 her wonderfull preservation.” The whole pamphlet is in- teresting. As was mentioned above, the bodies of criminals were handed over to their friends on payment of fees. If these were not forthcoming the hangman sold the bodies to surgeons; According to “ An accurate description of Newgate,” by B. L., 1729, the price varied from ten shillings to half-a-crown: In 1752, Surgeon’s Hall was built for the purpose of dissection, which was sometimes ordered as part of the sentence, and which was apparently carried on in public, for in the Annual Register for 1785 (April 13), there is mention of a murderer who was much shocked at the idea of dissection. “ The horrid spectacle he had seen there of several murderers, from time to time, made a deep impression upon his mind.” Several attempts have been made to utilize condemned criminals for surgical experiments, but all seem to have failed. In 1731, Charles Ray was reprieved on condition that Cheselden should perforate the drum of his ear to find out whether the perforation would cause deafness. Un- fortunately, the man fell ill of a fever before the operation, and the public became so excited that the experiment was stopped. In 1763, a man was reprieved on condition of per- mitting his leg to be cut off and a new styptic tried upon it. This man was inconsiderate enough to die before the trial could be made. In 1767, John Benham was reprieved for a similar purpose, as was imagined, but when Mr. Pierce, who had prepared a new styptic, waited upon the Secretary of State to find whether he might experiment, he was told that the intention was entirely laid aside, His Majesty being of opinion that it was quite improper to try such experiment. Distinguished murderers were honoured by having their skins tanned and distributed. I have a piece of the skin of Burke which was once in a museum at Distington. Accord- ing to Baring Gould* this was “ a favourite Yorkshire custom.” In the museum of the Bristol Royal Infirmary is * Yorkshire Oddities, II., 271.30 a book bound witlTthe tanned skin of John Horwood, a lad of 18, who was hanged for murder in 1821. In the Athenaeum at Bury St. Edmunds is one bound with the skin of William Corder, who was hanged in 1828. The fame of this latter worthy is commemorated by a Staffordshire figure of the Red Barn, which was the scene of the murder. Other murderers were honoured by medals. I have one of James Blomfield Bird, who murdered the Jeremy’s in 1848, and two of I. Curtis, who was executed for the murder of a Jew named Wolf Myers, near Sarum, in 1768. Curtis “ denied the fact to the last, though carried round the pit where the dead body was found,” before being hanged. The larger medal, two inches in diameter, gives a representation of the pit; the smaller one, which is a half-penny smoothed and engraved, depicts Curtis hanging in chains. Sarah Malcolm, hanged in 1733, seems to be the only murderer who was honoured by a Whieldon plaque. The Chaplain of Newgate regularly issued an account of the behaviour, confession, and dying words of condemned criminals. According to “ An accurate description of New- gate ” his salary was very meagre, and as he received no dues, this was his only method of adding to it. The earliest I have ever possessed was issued in 1738, and gives an account of 18 criminals, of whom five, one “ a little girl, convicted of steal- ing money,” were reprieved, the other 13 were hanged together at Tyburn. Four were women, two only 20 years of age, convicted of stealing ; one of the others had murdered her new-born baby. She was the only one of the 13 who had committed a more serious offence than robbery. The Chap- lain says of each, with hardly any variation in the words, “ He begged pardon of God and man ; believed in Christ, and died in peace with all the world.” Similar accounts have been published up to modern times, though not by prison Chaplains. I have a curious reference to this in a letter written by a Joseph Jackson the day before he was hanged. “ My brother will call upon you and give you every information in his power relative to my life, etc.,3i on Monday. He can only give you a dry detail of facts. To you I trust for the embellishment of style and illustration of character.” He and Thomas Bucknell were hanged for forgery on July 26, 1804, after an ineffectual attempt to poison themselves. I possess an article which is said to be a talisman against being hanged. It is about three inches high, and consists of a man hanging from a tree on which is perched an owl. In a little drawer beneath is the strand of a rope with which a man had been hanged. I have some autograph letters and documents, including one from Sanson, the French executioner, dated 1780, which refers to his sending one of his brothers to perform an execu- tion in the country. But the most interesting is a bill of the public whipper, in 1767, which I give in full. Aprill Sessions, 1767; Horsehiring, May the 4th .. .. .. £0 y 6 For whipping of George Cane at Isleworth o 10 o For whipping of Elizabeth Fletcher .. 050 For whipping of George Cane at Isleworth o 10 o June Sessions. For whipping of Sarah Johnson .. .. 050 For whipping of Ann Eaton .. .. 050 For whipping of Timothy McCarthy ffrom one end of the Haymarkett to the other end .. .. .. ..050 For whipping of Mary Dolley, from Caven- dish Square to Duke Street, Tyburn Road .. .. .. .. .. o 10 o Horsehiring, June the 10th .. .. 076 For whipping of Abraham Johnson, ffrom Mile End Turnpike to London Hos- pitall .. .. .. .. .. 0 10 o For whipping of Jane Hodgcom, ffrom one end of Nightingale Lane to the other end .. .. .. .. ..050 For a Quarter’s wages due at Midsummer 2 10 o £6 10 o l32 Reed. June the 30th, 1767, of the Sheriff of Middlesex, the sum of six pounds ten shillings by the Hand of Mr. George Search in full of all Demands. Thomas Turlis. £6 10 o CHAPTER VIII. Religious Objects* Egyptian Antiquities. I have always disliked collecting any articles connected with the Christian religion, and have only two reliquaries, an old Spanish one of gold, with the relic still inside it, and a carved wooden one in a gold mount said to have come from the sack of the Tuileries. Of ancient Hindu gods I once had a large number, having bought many from the first part of the Gennoo-Hodges collec- tion and still more from the second part which was privately sold. But the interest in them has gradually faded till even the names of the deities has been almost forgotten. I have, however, kept 28 lustral spoons and a number of Ganeshas which are supposed to bring good luck. Buddhas I once collected with great vigour, but the names and attributes of the rarer varieties were so hard to remember that I gave up the pursuit in despair. There are still about 100 in my possession. A ju-ju nail from Benin, used for crucifixion, may perhaps be classed as a religious object. I have a few Egyptian gods, and it was from the purchase of these that I was led to collect Egyptian antiquities generally. I have confined myself to small objects, and most of them are of the 18th dynasty, which is dear to me on account of the heresy of one of its kings, Amenhetep IV.33 Aahmes. I have a silver ring with the name of Aahmes-nefertari, who was the* sister and wife of this king, the founder of the dynasty. It was found near the banks of the Nile where her body was left without examination for over four years. The ring is clearly not a forgery, but it may not have been the queen’s own ring, as she was worshipped for centuries as the foundress of her dynasty. Amenhetep I. A scarab with the name, and another with his prenomenj Zeser-ka-ra ; both white. Thothmes I. Two green scarabs, both well engraved, with his pre- nomen, Aa-kheper-ka-ra; Thothmes II: Nil: Thothmes III. A large scarab and one mounted on a ring, both with the prenomen Men-kheper-ra. These are too common to be worth collecting; Amenhetep II; A very fine scarab with his name ; also a plaque, a scarab, and a piece of alabaster, each with his prenomen Aa-kheperu-ra. Thothmes IV. A scarab mounted on a ring with the prenomen Men- kheperu-ra. Amenhetep III. A scarab, a mould for casting the bezel of rings, a plaque with head of Sphinx, each with his name. A green pottery ring with the prenomen, Neb-maat-ra. Also the bezels of two green pottery rings, one with the name} the other with the prenomen.- On the bezel of a blue pottery ring is “ the royal wife Thiy,” the wife of this king. D34 Amenhetep IV A bronze ring with the prenomen, Nefer-kheperu-ra ; a plaque with the name on one side and the prenomen on the other ; a scarab, a blue pottery ring, and the bezel of a purple pottery ring, with the prenomen ; the bezel of a purple pottery ring with the name Akh-en-aten. Ankh-kheperu-ra. The bezel of a blue pottery ring. This king is said to have married Mert-aten, the eldest daughter of Amenhetep IV: (Ward’s Sacred Beetle, 73.) Tut-ankh-amen. A blue pottery ring with his prenomen Neb-kheperu-ra ; two finely cut scarabs of Amen-ankh-nes, his wife, a daughter of Amenhetep IV. Hor-em-heb. A scarab and a white pottery ring, each with his prenomen, Zeser-khepeu-ra. Ay. Four pottery rings, two with “ the divine father Ay,” two with his prenomen, Kheper-kheperu-ra ar maat. This is of course a scanty collection of objects connected with the 18th dynasty, but it gives me much pleasure and after all is not absolutely contemptible. I have four other articles with royal names. (1) A scarab, with the prenomen, Kheper-ka-ra, of Usert- sen I of the 12th dynasty. (2) A scarab, with the prenomen, Ne-maat-ra, of Amen- em-hat III of the 12th dynasty. (3) A scarab, with the prenomen, Aa-user-ra, of Apepy I of the 16th dynasty: (4) A blue pottery ring of Rameses II of the 19th dynasty;35 CHAPTER IX. Calendars. Tokens. Clocks. Past Collections. If any one wants to make a collection which will never be finally closed, which will be inexpensive, and which will make the excuse which shy men sometimes need for ransacking a dealer’s shop, let him collect the circular metal calendars which served as diaries in old days. Coin dealers charge from a shilling up for them ; other dealers are apt to fix a much higher price. Some modern firms have issued them of late years as advertisements. The earliest known specimen is 1684, one of 1698 is in silver, all between 1700 and 1750 are rare. My earliest are 1716, 1718, and 1728. I have French ones of 1776 and 1779.- The following are the makers of those which I have collected. A. Buckley, 1716. John West, 1728. T. Turner, fee., 1743; John Powell, Birmingham, 1749 to 1781; James (sometimes written Jas.) Davies, Birming- ham* 1782 to 1799.- Chars- Twigg, Birmingham * 1795. P. Kempson, Birmingham, 1796 to 18011 Kempson & Kindon, Birm., 1802-1809.- Kempson & Son, Birmingham, 1816-1826; T. Halliday, fecit, Birmingham, 1827. T. W. Ingram, 131, Snow Hill, Birmingham* 1827. The calendars are usually of bronze. I have seen 1801, 1806, and 1807 in pewter. I have two medals, one by T. W. Ingram, the other by I. Ottley of Birmingham, which give the distance of various36 places from London. On one side are the chief towns, on the other the Universities and “ bathing places.” A hundred yearsTago, when letter writing was a difficulty, a man often committed his sentiments to a coin after smooth- ing away the original inscription. There is a sameness in the thoughts expressed which makes the collection a little mono- tonous. “ Dear wifei when this you see Remember me when I am in a foreign Country, James Skillern:” “ Mary Kelley This comes from a Friend Whose love for you shall never end: John Doubleday.” “ Dear Mary Ann Accept of this as a token of love from your affectionate JO” On the reverse is JO: in a heart with the words “ My heart is with you.” “ Remember me when far away I journey thro’ the world’s wide waste, Remember me at early day Or when the evening shadows haste:” On the reverse is a ship, and underneath it “ Dear Mary accept this token of respect from a friend whose Love for thee shall never end.- William GrifhthSj Newcastle.” “I love one and only one ; That only one his (sic) thee, Do thou love one and only one Let that only one be me: H; Barton: B.- Wadington.”37 “ Absence ne’er parts Two constant hearts. H.D. S.O., 1774;" In addition to the inscriptions many have hearts, doves, portraits, farm-houses, carved on them; I have only one carved by a lady. Two doves and a heart pierced by two arrows have beneath, “ From Mary Mott Forget me not. 1826.” On the reverse are two names, Charles Hudson and H. Wood. A puzzling one has a crown with G.R., 1781, and round it “ Mary Bisard* 12 months Fine, January 22.” On the reverse a crown with G.R.j a heart pierced with two arrows, and the words “ Love True.” Round it “ Samuel Ford, 6 month’s Fine,* 1781.” Many are done by apprentices, who have recorded the date of their being bound, “ Timothy Blake Bound Augt. 7, 1771.” One man has recorded an event which most people pre- fer to forget— “ John Palmer aged 18 years in prison 3 months, 1820.” On many are election cries and trade advertisements, though it is difficult to see how a sufficient number could be carved to make them of any real service. “ Spence’s plan. Small farms and full bellies.” “ Blunt, operator for the teeth and bleeder, Great Wind- mill Street, near Brewer Street, Golden Square.” Some are religious. One has the Crucifixion on it, another the Ten Commandments and the Lord’s Prayer. I forget how many grandfather clocks I once possessed. Many are sold and others went as wedding presents, but there are seven still left. I have also three very fine bracket clocks ; two lantern clocks, one dated 1681, with a side escapement ; two German clocks working on a rack, which only have to be pushed up to keep going ; a table clock and a few others.38 A few fire strikers (one of old Russian work in gold), wool- winders, split-rings, paper-weights, theatre passes, tobacco stoppers, nutcrackers, puzzle-boxes, Japanese sword guards exist as the beginnings of collections, never pursued with vigour. Some things I have almost forgotten. Once the rage was for Bristol porcelain, which lasted until I had written a history of the factory as a preface to Mr. Alfred Trapnell’s catalogue, and then all interest seemed suddenly to fade. At another time the walls of the drawing room were covered with toasting- forks, of which a large number were bought from one dealer who killed his goose by offering me a fork with a curiously early date. This brought suspicion on the whole collection, and they were sold at once. I once had Cardinal Wolsey’s hat in my possession, while a subscription was raised to buy it. If I had realized at the time of the sale how much it would have been valued I would have bought and given it to the House, but it was sold and resold at a much higher price before I could get hold of it, and then it seemed too expensive a gift. Some years after I tried to make up for my meanness by presenting a manuscript con- taining a list of Wolsey’s household. There must have been many other things which are quite forgotten, and there are doubtless many more yet to come. One tires of collections but never of collecting.39 APPENDIX A. COOKERY BOOKS. Bod.—Bodleian Library. B. M.—British Museum. C. —Cambridge Library. P.—Patent Office Library.40 I. English books on Cookery and Carving up to the year 1699. A NOBLE BOOKE OF FEASTES ROYALL Printed by John Byddell. THIS IS THE BOKE OF COKERY Printed by Richard Pynson. A LITTLE OLDE BOOKE OF COOKERIE Printed by Anthony Kytson. A NEWE BOKE OF COKERY Printed by Thomas Raynald. Of these four books no copy seems known. I HERE BEGYNNETH THE BOKE OF KERVYNGE. C. 40 ; A with 6 leaves, B with 6. Colophon is “ Here endeth the boke of servyce and kervynge and sewynge and all maner of offyce in his kynde unto a prynce or ony other estate and all the feestes in the yere. Emprynted by Wynkyn de Worde at London in the Fletestrete at the sygne of the sonne. The yere of our lorde, M.CCCCC.VIII.” Below this is Wynkyn de Worde’s device. There is an illustration of a family at table below the title. Black Letter. THE BOKE OF KERVYNGE. B. M. 4° ; A with 6 leaves, B with 6. Colophon is “ Here endeth the boke of servyce and kervynge and sewynge and all maner of offyce in his kynde unto a prynce or ony other estate and all the feestes in the yere. Emprynted by Wynkyn de Worde at London in Flete strete at the synge of the sonne. The yere of our lorde god, MCCCCCXIII.”4i Below this is Wynkyn de Worde’s device. There is an illustration of a family at table on the title-page. Title is in a ribbon. Black letter. THE BOOKE OF CARVYNG. Imprinted at London, by Abraham Veale dwelling in Poules Churchyarde, at the signe of the Lambe. B. M. 12° ; A to C in eights. Device of a bird on title-page. No date. Black letter. THE TREASURE OF POORE MEN. B. M. There is very little relating to cookery in this book. The title-page, within borders, is “ Here begynneth a good Boke of Medycynes : called the Treasure of poore Men.” Colophon is “ Imprynted at London in Paules churche yearde, at the sygne of the Maydens heed : by Thomas Petyt, MDXXXIX.” 12° ; 4 leaves, then A to F4 in eights. Table of contents, 44 leaves. Black letter. Another copy in the B.M., identical as regards title-page and contents, has colophon, “ Here endeth this boke of Medecynes called the Treasure of pore men. Imprynted at London in Fletestrete by me Robert Redman dwellyng at the sygne of the George nexte to saynte Dunstons Curche. The yere of our Lorde MCCCCCXXXIX. The XXIIII day of Janiver.” The printer’s initials, E. R. (?) for Elizabeth Redman are in a device at end. IY40 THE CASTEL OF HELTHE, gathered, and made by Sir Thomas Elyot knight, out of the chief authors of Phisyke, whereby every man may knowe the state of his owne body, the preservation of helthe, and how to instruct well his phisition in sicknes, that he be not deceyved. MDXXXIX. Lambeth Palace. There is very little relating to cookery in this book. A with 4 leaves, B with 4, then A to Y in fours, followed by Y5 and another leaf. Title in borders. Black letter. The colophon is “ Londini in aedibus Thomae Bertheleti typis impress. Cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum Anno MDXXXIX.” The British Museum has no edition earlier than 1541. *E»CI. ecu. Bcc. acu_ ®Cl_ I- SC.L /42 A PROPER NEWE BOOKE OF COKERYE, declarynge what maner of meates be beste in season, for al times in the yere, and how they ought to be dressed, and served at the table, both for fleshe dayes, and fyshe dayes. With a newe addition, verye necessarye for all them that delyghteth in Cokerye. Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. 12° ; A to B in eights, Bs blank. Black letter. No date. Device of man with hawk beneath title and after colophon. Colophon is “ Imprynted at London, in Crede Lane, by John Kynge, and Thomas Marche.” Watt gives an edition of 1546 by Richard Lant. 1575. Imprinted at London in Fleetstreete, by William How7 for Abraham Veale. B. M. 120 ; A to B in eights. Black letter. Title in border. Anno domini 1576. B. M. 120; A to B in eights. Black letter. Colophon is “Imprinted at London for Antony Rytson.” Here foloweth A COMPEDYOUS REGYMENT OR A DYETARY OF HELTH, made in Montpylior : compiled by Andrewe Boorde, of Physicke Doctor. Colophon is, “ Imprynted by me Robert Wyer : Dwellynge at the synge of seynt John Evangelyst in S. Martyns Paryshe, besyde Charynge Crosse. Cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum.” C. B. M. Small 40 ; A to Q in fours ; title in border ; table of contents at be- ginning ; black letter ; a device on title-page of a man and stars. Anno Domini, MDLXII, XII Die Mensis Januarii. Colophon is “ Imprinted be me Thomas Colwell, Dwellynge in the house of Robert Wyer, at the Synge ofS; John Evan- gelyst, besyde Charynge Crosse.” C. B. M. Bod. 120 ; A to H in eights ; table of contents ; black letter ; device on title-page of man and stars. fti0 03° C*** /r^-7 . Uz /w \43 Newly corrected and imprynted with dyvers addycyons. Dedycated to the Armypotent and valyent Lorde Thomas Duke of Northfolke. Colophon is “ Imprynted at London in Fletestrete at the synge of the George nexte to Saynte Dunstones church by Wyllyam Powell. In the yere of our Lorde god M, CCCCC, LXVII. 1S<A B. M. Small 40 ; 4 leaves, then A to I in fours, I having 6 leaves. The dedication is dated M,CCCCC,XLVII. It is followed by table of contents. Black letter. There is a device on title-page of fruit on a dish, and another at end of table. Furnivall thinks the date 1567 is an error for 1547, but there are many arguments against this view. is-<t ISW\~ St L THE TREASURIE OF COMMODIOUS CONCEITES* AND HIDDEN SECRETS. Commonly called The Good Huswives Closet of provision for the health of her houshold. Meete and necessarie for the profitable use of all estates} gathered out of sundry Experiments lately practised by men of great knowledge. A. W. O. This copy has lost its title-page, but the colophon is “ These Bookes are to be sould at the West ende of Paules Church : By Richard Jones, the Printer hereof, 1573.” 120 ; probably A with 4 leaves, B to G4 in eights, but F and G are both imperfect. The book begins with two laudatory poems by Thomas Curteyse and Thomas Blanck, table of contents, and poem signed J. P. Black letter. The headline is “ The Treasury or Closet of hidden Secrets. And now the fourth tyme corrected and in larged, with divers necessary and new additions. At London, printed by Richard Jones : dwelling at the signe of the Rose and Crowne, neere Holbourne Bridge, 1584. B. M. 120; A to F4 in eights; poetical preface, dedication, poem signed J. P., receipts, table of contents. Black letter. The head-line is “ The Closet or Treasurie of hidden secrets.” At London, printed for Henrye Car, Anno 1586. e>ci_44 B. M. 12°; A to F4 in eights. The name John Partridge is given in the dedication. Black letter. Title in border. London, printed by Richard Jones, at the Rose and Crowne neere Holborne bridge, 1591. Bod. 120; A to F in eights. Black letter. The book next appears as a quarto with a somewhat different title : THE TREASURIE OF HIDDEN SECRETS; Commonlie called, The good-huswives Closet of provision, for the health of her Houshold. Gathered out of sundry experiments, lately practised by men of great knowledge : And now newly enlarged, with divers necessary Phisicke helpes, and knowledge of the names and naturall disposition of diseases, that most commonly happen to men and women. Not impertinent for every good Huswife to use in her housej amongst her owne familie. At London, printed by J.- R: for Edward White, and are to be sold at his shop at the little North doore of Paules, at the signe of the Gunne, 1600. B; M. A to I in fours ; preface, poem, receipts, table of contents. Black letter. There is a device on title-page with Gnosce te ipsum, Ne quid nimis, Love and Lyve. London, printed for E. B. and R. B., and are to be sold at the signe of the Bible in Cheap-side, 1627; A: W. O. A to I in fours ; preface, poem, receipts, table of contents. Black letter. There is a device on title-page of two mythical figures with fruit and flowers. A half-title under border on D3. London, printed by Elizabeth All-de, dwelling neere Christs- Church, 1633. C. A to I in fours ; preface, poem, receipts, table of contents. There is a device of flowers in a shield on title-page. A half-title on D3. London, printed by Richard Oulton, dwelling neere Christs- Church, 1637;45 C. P. Identical with edition of 1633. London* printed by Jane Bell, and are to be sold at the East end of Christ Church, 1653; B. M; A to I in fours. Black letter. A device on title-page with Lahore et Constantia. Hazlitt mentions editions of 1580, 1586, 1594, 1596; Prof; Ferguson of 1608, 1656. A DIRECTION FOR THE HEALTH OF MAGISTRATES AND STUDENTES. Namely suche as bee in their consistent Age, or neere there- unto : Drawen as well out of sundry good and commendable Authours, as also upon reason and faithfull experience other- wise certaynely grounded. Written in Latin by Gulielmus Gratarolus, and Englished by T. N. Imprinted at London, in Fleete streete, by William How, for Abraham Veale, 1574. B. M: Small 40 ; A with 4 leaves, then 2 leaves, then B to X in fours. Black letter. Title in border. A COMPENDIUM OF THE RATIONALL SECRETES of the worthie Knight and moste excellent Doctour of Phisicke and Chirurgerie, Leonardo Phioravante Bolognese, divided into three Bookes. Imprinted at London by Jhon Kyngston, for George Pen, and Is H., 1582; B. M. * with 8, then A to R in eights. Black letter. The cookery receipts are in Book 3. The full title is not given.46 THE SCHOOLEMASTER or Teacher of Table Philosophic. A most pleasant and merie Companion, well worthy to be welcomed (for a dayly Gheast) not onelye to all mens hoorde, to guide them with moderate and holsome dyet; but also into every mans Com- panie at all tymes, to recreat their mindes, with honest mirth and delectable devises to sundry pleasant purposes of pleasure and pastyme. Gathered out of divers, the best approved Aucthors: And devided into foure pithy and pleasant Treatises, as it may appeare by the contentes. Imprinted at London, by Richard Johnes dwelling at the Signe of the Rose and the Crown, neere Holburne Bridge. 1583- B. M. A to R in fours; printer’s preamble in verse, argument of the four books, table of contents at end. There is a preface to each book ; that to the first comes before the argument. There are no receipts but advice as to the use of foods in the first book. Black letter. THE GOOD HUSWIFES JEWELL. Wherein is to be found most excellent and rare Devises for conceites in Cookery, found out by the practise of Thomas Dawson. Whereunto is adjoyned sundry approved receits for many soveraine oyles, and the way to distill many precious waters, with divers approved medicines for many diseases. Also certain approved points of husbandry, very necessary for all Husbandmen to know. Newly set foorth with additions, 1596. Imprinted at London for Edward White dwelling at the Little North doore of Paules at the signe of the Gun; B. M. 120; A to G in eights ; 52 leaves, table of contents. Black letter. The head-line is “ A Booke of Cookerie.” Hazlitt gives an edition of 1610.47 THE SECOND PART OF THE GOOD HUS-WIFES JEWELL, Us Wherein is to bee found most apt and readiest wayes to distill many wholsome and sweete waters, In which likewise is shewed the best manner in preserving of divers sorts of Fruites, and making of Syrropes : With divers Conseites in Cookerie after the Italian and French maner. Never the like published by any untill this present yere, 1585. Imprinted at London for Edward White, dwelling at the little North doore of Paules Church, at the signe of the Gunne. B. M. 120; 4 leaves, A to E4 in eights; table of contents, pages 1-72. Black letter. The headline is “ A booke of Cookerie.” With divers conceits in Cookerie with the Booke of Carving. At London, printed by E. Allde for Edward White, dwelling at the little North doore of Paules Church at the signe of the Gun, 1597. B. M. 120 ; A to E in eights ; table of contents, pages 1-72 ; followed by “ The booke of Carving and Sewing,”* with separate title-page, A to C4 in eights, unpaged. Black letter. Maunsell gives an edition of 1590 and Hazlitt one of 1606. THE HOUSEHOLDERS PHILOSOPHIE, Wherein is perfectly & profitably described, the true Oeco- nomia and forme of Housekeeping, with a Table added there- unto of all the notable things therein contained. First written in Italian by that excellent Orator and Poet, Signior Torquato Tasso, and now translated by T. K. Whereunto is annexed a dairie Booke for all good huswives. At London, printed by F. C. for Thomas Hacket, and are to be sold at his shop in Lomberd streete under the signe of the Popes head, MDLXXXVIII. B. M. * Sec page 54.48 4 H 2 leaves, * 4 leaves, A-G3 in fours. Black letter. This is a set of rules and recommendations. There are no recipes. The "dairie Booke ” did not appear. A modern copy of the original, Padre di Famiglia, is in the B.M. THE GOOD HOUS-WIVES TREASURIE. Beeing a verye necessarie Booke instructing to the dressing of Meates. Hereunto is also annexed sundrie holsome Medicines for divers diseases. Imprinted at London by Edward Allde, 1588. B. M. 120 ; A to C4 in eights, A2 containing title, and Ai being probably blank. Black letter. Title in border. A BOOK OF COOKRYE. Very necessary for all such as delight therin. Gathered by A. W. And now newlye enlarged, with the serving in of the Table. With the proper Sauces to each of them convenient. At London, printed by Edward Allde, 1591 .- Bod. 120 ; A to E in eights ; title-page, 36 leaves, table of contents (3 leaves). Black letter. At London, printed by Edward Allde, Anno Dom. 1594. B. M. Identical with edition of 1591. THE WIDDOWES TREASURE. Plentifully furnished with sundry precious and approved secrets in Phisicke and Chirurgery, for the health and pleasure of Mankinde. Heereunto are adjoyned, sundrie prittie practices and conclu-49 sions of Cookerie, with many profitable and wholsome Medi- cines, for sundrie diseases in Cattell. At London, printed by J. Roberts for Edward White, 1595. B. M. 120 ; A to F in eights. Black letter. Preface gives author’s initials as M. R. Herbert, 683, 1101, 1199, gives editions of 1584 and 1591. London, printed by Eliz. Allde, and are to be sold by Robert Bird, 1631. Bod. 120 ; A to F in eights. Black letter. Device on title-page. London, printed by R. B. for Robert Bird, and are to be sold at his shop in S. Laurence-lane at the Signe of the Bible. 1639. B. M. Identical with edition of 1631. THE GOOD HUSWIFES HANDMAIDE FOR THE KITCHIN. % Containing manie principall pointes of Cookerie, as well how to dresse meates, after sundrie the best fashions used in England and other Countries, with their apt and proper sawces, both for flesh and fish, as also the orderly serving of the same to the Table. Hereunto are annexed, sundrie necessarie Conceits for the preservation of health. Verie meete to be adjoined to the good Huswifes Closet of provision for her Houshold. Imprinted at London by Richard Jones, 1594. Bod. 120 ; A to H3 in eights ; an introductory leaf about the due seasons for the use of meats, leaves 1 to 55, table of contents. Black letter. The head-line is “ A New booke of Cookerie.” There is an ornament on title-page. Maunsell gives the first edition as printed by Richard Jones and Ant. Hyll in 1588; E50 A B00KE OF COOKERIE, Otherwise called : The good Huswives Handmaid for the kitchin. Wherein is shewed the order how to dresse meates after sundry the best fashions used in England and other Countries : with their apt and proper sauces both for flesh and fish : as also the orderly serving the same to the Table. Whereunto are annexed sundry necessary Conceites for the preservation of health. London, printed by E. Allde, dwelling in Aldersgate streete, over-against the Pump, 1597. B. M. 120 ; A to H3 in eights ; an introductory leaf about the due seasons for the use of meats, leaves 1 to 55, table of contents. Black letter. The head-line is “ A new booke of Cookerie.” THE GOOD HUSWIVES HANDMAID, FOR COOKERIE in her Kitchin, etc. The book under this title in the B. M. is the same as the last. It has lost its title-page, and A2 and the name has been taken from the half- title. A THOUSAND NOTABLE THINGS of sundry sorts, etc. By Thomas Lupton. There are several editions in the B. M. from 1600 on. The earliest, undated but about 1595, was “ imprinted at London by John Charlewood, for Hughe Spooner, dwelling in Lumbardstreete at the signe of the Cradle.” A to Ss in fours. EPULARIO, or The Italian Banquet: Wherein is shewed the maner how to dresse and prepare all kind of Flesh, Foules, or Fishes. As also how to make Sauces, Tartes, Pies, etc. After the maner of all Countries. With an addition of many other profitable and necessary things.5i Translated out of Italian into English. London, printed by A. J. for William Bailey, and are to bee sold at his shop in Gratious street neere Leaden-hall, 1598. B. M. A to L in 4 ; A has only one and L three ; there is an embellishment with emblems of death and “ non plus ” on title-page and another at end of book. The Italian version, 1549, is in B. M. CAL. DYETS DRY DINNER: Consisting of eight severall Courses : /1. Fruites. ) 2. Hearbes. j 3. Flesh. (4. Fish; / 5. Whitmeats. ) 6. Spice. \ 7. Sauce. (8. Tabacco. All served in after the order of Time universall. By Henry Buttes, Maister of Artes, and Fellowe of C.C.C. in C. Qui miscuit utile Dulci. Cicero. Non nobis solum nati sumus, sed ortus nostri sibi vendicant. Printed in London by Tho. Creede, for William Wood, and are to be sold at the West end of Powles, at the signe of Tyme, I599- Bod. C. B. M. A. W. O. 120 ; A has 8 leaves, the first has only a cut; Aa 4 leaves, then B to P in eights, the last leaf being blank. This is not really a cookery book but a description of different articles of food with a “ story for table-talke ” to each. These descriptions are in black letter. f 1 lio See. DELIGHTES FOR LADIES, To adorne their Persons, Tables, Closets, and Distillatories ; with Beauties, Banquets, Perfumes, & Waters; Reade, Practice, & Censure. At London, printed by Peter Short. B. M. A to H in twelves, Hr2 being a blank leaf with borders. A rhymed epistle is signed H. Plat. This a most charming little book within borders, in some of which are woven the initials E.R.52 At London, printed by Peter Short, 1602. B. M. At London, printed by H. L., 1608. B. M. At London, printed by Humfrey Lownes, 1609. C. A. W. 0. At London, printed by Humfrey Lownes, 1611. Bod. At London, printed by H. L. and are to be sould by Arthur Johnson, 1615. B. M. London, printed by H. L. and R. Y., and are to bee sold by James Boler, 1630; B. M. Bod. London, printed by R. Y. and are to bee sold by James Boler, 1632. B. M. London, printed by Robert Young, 1636. B. M. London, printed by James Young, 1647. B. M. The former editions were exactly similar. This has no borders. London, printed by William Dugard, 1651. B. M. Library of Pharmaceutical Society. As 1647. London, printed by R. W., 1654. B. M. As 1647. Hazlitt gives editions of 1600, 1603, 1618, 1640, 1656 ; Mrs. Pennell one of 1683 by O. Blagrave. NATURALL AND ARTIFICIAL DIRECTIONS for health, derived from the best Philosophers, as well moderne, as auncient. By William Vaughan, Master of Artes, and Student in the Civill Law. London, printed by Richard Bradocke, 1600. B. M. 120; A to F; in eights; dedication, English poem, Latin verses,53 pages 1-76, table of contents. Title in borders. A remarkable work to dedicate to one’s sister. The B. M. has the second edition in 1602, which, unlike the first, is black letter, the third in 1607, the fifth in 1617, the sixth in 1626 (40), the seventh in 1633 (40). A CLOSET FOR LADIES AND GENTLEWOMEN, or, The Art of preserving, Conserving, and Candying. With the manner howe to make divers kinds of Syrups : and all kind of banqueting stuffes. Also divers soveraigne Medicines and Salves, for sundry Diseases. At London, printed for Arthur Johnson, dwelling neere the great North dore of Pauls, 1608. C. B. M. A. W. 0. 120 ; A to M in eights ; pages 1-190. A little book within borders, much resembling “ Delightes for Ladies ” by Plat, to whom the book is attributed in the Douce catalogue. London, printed for Arthur Johnson, dwelling neere the great North dore of Paules, 1611; Bod. Identical with edition of 1608. London, printed by John Haviland, 1630. Bod. A to H in twelves, not paged, different border. London, printed by John Haviland, 1632. Mrs. Pennell. Identical with edition of 1630. London, printed by John Haviland, 1636. B. M. Identical with edition of 1630. London, printed by R. H.- for Charles Greene, 1647. B. M. No border, otherwise identical with edition of 1636. There is a por- trait of a lady as frontispiece. Corrected, Amended, and much Enlarged by adding a very usefull Table thereunto. London, printed by R. H., 1651. -54 B. M. Library of Pharmaceutical Society. A to H in twelves ; table of contents, pages 1-84. No portrait. London, printed by R. W., 1654. B. M. Identical with edition of 1651. London, printed by R. H., 1656. B. M. Identical with edition of 1651. Hazlitt gives an edition of 1635; THE BOOKE OF CARVING AND SEWING. And all the feastes in the yeere, for the service of a Prince or any other estate, as yee shall finde each office, the service according in this booke following. At London, printed by E. Allde for Edward White, dwelling at the little North doore of S. Paules at the signe of the Gunnea Bod. 120 ; A to C4 in eights. Black letter. London, printed by Edw. Allde for Sara White, and are to be solde at the little North doore of S. Paules, at the Signe of the Gunne* 1613. B. M; 120 ; A to C4 in eights. Black letter. THE PHILOSOPHERS BANQUET; newly furnished and decked forth with much variety of many severall Dishes, that in the former Service were neglected Where now not onely Meates and Drinks of all Natures and Kindes are served in, but the Names and Kindes of all disputed of. The second Edition, newly corrected and inlarged, to almost as much more. By W. B. Esquire. London, printed by T. C. for Leonard Becket, and are to bee solde at his shoppe in the Temple, neere the Church. 1614. B. M. 12°; A with 8, * with 4, B to S4 in eights; poem to reader, letter, table of contents, pages 1-262. There are Latin versions in the B. M. The third Edition.55 London, printed for Nicholas Vavasour, and are to bee sold at his shop in the Temple, neere the Church. 1633. B. M. A to R6 in twelves; poem, letter, table, preface, pages 1-364. THE ENGLISH HUS-WIFE, Contayning, The inward and outward vertues which ought to be in a compleat woman. As, her skill in Physicke, Cookery, Banqueting-stuffe, Dis- tillation, Perfumes, Wooll, Hemp, Flax, Dayries, Brewing, Baking, and all other things belonging to an Houshould. A Worke very profitable and necessarie, gathered for the generall good of this kingdome. Printed at London by John Beale, for Roger Jackson, and are to bee sold at his shop neere the great Conduit in Fleet-streete, 1615. B. M: Q to Ii in fours. This is the second book of “ Countrey Contentments,” by Gervase Markham. Preface, table, pages 1-128. There is a heraldic device on title-page. Printed at London by I. B. for R. Jackson, and are to be sold at his shop neere Fleet-streete Conduit, 1623. B. M. A to Hh in fours, Hh4 being blank ; dedication, table of contents, pages 1-233. Fourth edition. London, printed by Nicholas Okes for John Harrison, and are to be sold at his shop at the signe of the golden Unicorne in Pater-noster-row, 1631. Mrs. Pennell. 40 ; A with 6 leaves, B to R.6 in eights ; dedication, table of contents, pages 1-252. The fifth time much augmented. London, printed by Anne Griffin for John Harrison, at the Golden Unicorne in Pater-noster-row, 1637. C. B. M. A printed irregularly, B to R in fours ; dedication, table of contents, i56 pages 1-252. The title-page has a device of a star, etc., with Dum spero fero. The same edition, printed 1649. B. M. A different device on title-page. The sixth time much augmented. Printed by W. Wilson, for E. Brewster, and George Sawbridge, at the Bible on Ludgate-hill, neere Fleet-bridge, 1656. B. M. A to O2 in fours ; dedication, table, pages 1-188. The seventh time much augmented, 1660. B. M; Same printers and identical contents. London, printed by W. Wilson for George Sawbridge, at the Bible on Ludgate-hill near Fleet-Bridge, 1664. 40 ; A with 4, B to O2 in eights ; dedication, table, pages 1-188. The eighth time much augmented. London, printed by J. Streater for George Sawbridge, dwelling on Clerkenwell-green, 1668. B. M. C. The B. M. copy is identical. The Cambridge copy is Aaa to Ccc2 in eights. London, printed for George Sawbridge, at the Sign of the Bible on Ludgate Hill, 1675. C. Aaa to Cccc2 in fours ; dedication, table, pages 1-188. The ninth time much augmented. London, printed for Hannah Sawbridge, at the Sign of the Bible on Ludgate-Hill, 1683. B. M. Identical with 1668 edition. THE QUEENS CLOSET OPENED. This consists of three books, “ The Pearle of Practice,” “ A Queen’s Delight,” and “ The Compleat Cook,” the last two having separate title-pages. “ The Compleat Cook,” nearly always separately paged, was sometimes published by itself. The other two, though sometimes separately paged, seem to have been nearly always published together.57 (A) THE QUEENS CLOSET OPENED, Incomparable Secrets in Physick, Chirurgery, Preserving and Candying, and Cookery ; as they were presented to the Queen, By the most experienced Persons of our Times, many whereof were honoured with her own practice, when she pleased to descend to these more private Recreations. Never before published. Transcribed from the true Copies of her Majesties own Receipt Books, by W. M., one of her late servants. Vivit post funera Virtus. j Printed for Nathaniel Brook at the Angel in Cornhill, 1655. B. M. A with 6 leaves, Ai being blank, then C to O in twelves, followed by P with 4, and Q with 12 leaves, QI2 containing only advertisements. Preface, pages 1-191, title-page dated 1654,* pages 195-296, tables to each part. In the B. M. copy there is no portrait. The portrait in the copy in the library of the Royal Academy of Medicine is lettered, “ Henrietta Maria Regina. Ed. Faithorne fecit. Sold by Nat. Brooke att ye Angel in Cornhill.” Another copy I have seen had not the queen’s name. 1656. An edition of this date is in the library of the Medical Society of London, but has been mislaid. Corrected and Reviewed, with many Additions : Together with three exact Tables. London, printed for Peter Dring, and are to be sold at the Sun in the Poultry, next door to the Rose Tavern, 1661. A with 6 leaves, C to Q6 in twelves ; preface, table of approvers of receipts, pages 1-192, title-page dated 1660 and with a different printer, pages 195-300, two tables of contents. The portrait is lettered, “ Ed. Faithorne fee. : Sold by Nat. Brooke att ye Angell in Cornhill.” Corrected and Reviewed, with many Additions : together with three exact Tables. London, printed for Christ. Eccleston, and are to be sold at his Shop in St. Dunstan’s Church-Yard, 1662. B. M. A. W. O. 6 leaves, then C to Q6 in twelves ; preface, table of approvers of * In one copy this was 1655.58 receipts, pages 1-192, title-page dated 1662, pages 195-300, two tables of contents. There is a portrait of the Queen as frontispiece, with the lettering, “ Ed. Faithorne fee. Sold by Nat. Brooke att ye Angell in Cornhill.” London, printed by J. W. for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Gresham-College, near the Exchange in Bishops-gate-street, 1668. B. M. A with 6 leaves, C to L4 in twelves ; pages 1-191, table of contents ; the table of approvers takes in the Compleat Cook in this and following editions. The B. M. copy is imperfect, title-page and beginning of “ A Queen’s Delight ” being lost. What is left is C to Es in twelves ; pages 47-106, table of contents. London, printed for N. Brooke, and are to be sold by Charles Harper at the Flower-de-luce over against St. Dunstans Church in Fleet street, 1671. B. M. A with 6 leaves, C to L4 in twelves, followed by A to Es in twelves ; portrait ; pages 1-191, table of contents, title-page dated 1671, pages 1-106, table of contents. London, printed for Nath. Brooke, and are to be sold by Tho: Guy at the Corner Shop of Little Lumber-street, Cornhill, 1674. B. M. A. W. O. A to O5 in twelves ; portrait ; pages 1-190, table of contents, title- page dated 1675, pages 1-106, table of contents. London, printed for Obadiah Blagrave, at the sign of the Black Bear in St. Pauls Church-yard, 1679. B. M. A. W. O. Identical with edition of 1674. Under portrait is “ Heneretta Maria, late Queen of England.” London, printed for Obadiah Blagrave at the Sign of the Black Bear in St. Pauls Church-yard, 1683. Identical with edition of 1674. Mrs. Pennell has a copy of “ A Queen’s Delight ” of this date which was issued separately. II0 to 05 in twelves. An edition of 1696. P. This has lost its first title-page, but according to Arber is the tenth edition. A with 6 leaves, B to N7 in twelves ; preface, table of ap-Identical with edition of 1675. provers, pages 1-163, table of contents, title-page dated 1696, pages 171-264, table of contents. (B) THE COMPLEAT COOK : I Italian, Expertly prescribing the most ready wayes, whether ■! Spanish, ( or French. for dressing of Flesh, and Fish, ordering of Sauces, or making of Pastry. London, printed for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Corn-hill 1655. B. M. A to F5 in twelves, pages 1-123, table of contents. London, printed for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Cornhill, 1659. A. W. O. Identical with edition of 1655. London, printed for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Cornhill, 1662. B. M. A. W. O. A to F in twelves, the last 14 pages containing only advertisements ; pages 3-123, table of contents. London, printed by J. Winter, for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Gresham-College, 1668. B. M. A to F6 in twelves, F6 being occupied with advertisements. London, printed by E. Tyler, and R. Holt, for Nath. Brooke at the Angel in Corn-Hill, near the Royal Exchange, 1671. B. M. Identical with edition of 1668, except that F6 is missing. London, printed by F. Leach, for Nat. Brooks and are to be Sold by Tho. Guy, at the Corner Shop in Little-Lumber-street and Corn-hill, 1675. B. M. A. W. O. 06 to T in twelves ; the last two leaves being blank. This is bound with “ The Queen’s Closet Opened ” of 1674. London, printed for Obadiah Blagrave at the Sign of the Black Bear in St. Paul’s Churchyard, and R. Harford at the Angel in Cornhil, near the Royal Exchange, 1679. B. M. A. W. O.6o London, printed for Obadiah Blagrave at the Sign of the Black Bear in St. Pauls Churchyard, and R. Harford at the Angel in Cornhil, near the Royal Exchange, 1683. (Identical with edition of 1675.) London, printed in the Year 1695. P. Ns to T6 in twelves ; pages 271-401, table of contents. Bound with " The Queen’s Closet Opened ” of 1696. A DAILY EXERCISE FOR LADIES AND GENTLE- WOMEN. Whereby they may learne and practise the whole Art of making Pastes, Preserves, Marmalades, Conserves, Tart- stuffes, Gellies, Breads, Sucket-Candies, Cordiall waters, Conceits in Sugar-workes of several kindes. As also to dry Lemonds, Orenges, or other Fruits. Newly set forth, according to the now approved Receipts, used both by Honourable and Worshipfull personages. By John Murrel Professor thereof. London : printed for the widow Helme, and are to be sould at her shop in S. Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet street, 1617. A. W. O. A to G in twelves, Ai, Gn, and G12 being blank. Printed within borders. A DELIGHTFULL DAILY EXERCISE FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. Whereby is set foorth the secrete misteries of the purest pre- servings in Glasses and other Confrictionaries, as making of Breads, Pastes, Preserves, Suckets, Marmalates, Tartstuffes, rough Candies, and many other things never before in Print. Whereto is added a Booke of Cookery. By John Murrell Professor thereof. London, printed for Tho. Dewe, and are to be sold at his shoppe in St. Dunstons Church-yard in Fleete-street, 1621. B. M. A has 12 leaves, the lirst being blank ; then again A to G4 in twelves.6i " The booke of Cookerie ” is A with 8 leaves, B with 12 leaves, Cwith 5 leaves. Printed between borders. The second book has a separate title-page : A booke of Cookerie : containing many of the best and chosest workes, that are used at this day. both of the French and Dutch fashions. Never before in Print till this time. London, printed for Thomas Dewe, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstons Church-yard, 1621. A NEW BOOK OF COOKERIE. Wherein is set forth a most perfect direction to furnish an extraordinary, or ordinary feast, either in Summer or Winter. Also a Bill of Fare for Fish-dayes, Fasting dayes, Ember- weekes, or Lent. And likewise the most commendable fashion of Dressing, or Sowcing, either Flesh, Fish, or Fowle : for making of Gellies, and other Made-dishes for service, to beautifie either Noble- mans or Gentlemans Table. Together with the newest fashion of cutting up any Fowle. Hereunto also is added the most exquisite English Cookerie. All set forth according to the now, new, English and French fashion. By John Murrell. London, printed for John Browne, and are to be sould at his Shop in Dunstanes Church-yard, 1617. B. M. Bod. 120 ; A to H3 in eights, Ar being blank ; dedication, table of con- tents, pages 1-101. Black letter. MURRELS TWO BOOKES OF COOKERIE AND CARVING. The fourth time printed with new Additions. London, printed by M. F. for John Marriot, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet street, 1631. A. W. 0. The second title-page is that of the last book, with the words “ To- gether with the best and newest Art of Carving and Sewing ” in place62 Identical with edition of 1641. of “ Together with .... exquisite English Cookerie,” and with the omission of all words after “ Murrell.” The third title-page is on page 83 :— The Second Booke of Cookerie. Wherein is set forth the newest and most commendable Fashion of Dressing, Boyling, Sowcing, or Roasting, all manner either Flesh, Fish, or any kinde of Fowle. Together with an exact order of making Kickshawes, or made-dishes, of any fashion, fit to beautifie either Noble-mans or Gentle-mans Table. All set forth according to the now new English and French fashion. By John Murrell. The fourth Impression. London, printed for John Marriot, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstans Churchyard, 1631. The fourth title-page is on page 149 :— A New Booke of Carving and Sewing. London, printed by M. F. for John Marriot, and are to be sold at his shop in Saint Dunstans Churchyard in Fleetstreet, 1631. 120; A to N in eights; title-page, second title-page, dedication, pages 1-82, title-page to second part, pages 85-148, title-page to third part, pages 149-189, table of contents for the three parts. Black letter. The fifth time printed with new Additions. London, printed by M. F. for John Marriot, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet-street, 1638. B. M. Identical with edition of 1631. The fifth time printed with new Additions. London, printed by M. F. for John Marriot, and are to be sold at his shop in St. Dunstans Churchyard in Fleetstreet, 1641. fete B. M. Bod. A. W. O. Identical with edition of 1631, except that the table of contents is in smaller type, and extends only to N7, Ns being blank. The title- page to the second part has “ The sixth impression, 1641.” The seventh time printed, with new additions. London, printed by Ja. FI. for Rich. Marriot, and are to be sold at his shop in St. Dunstans Church-yard, 1650. B. M.63 A BOOKE OF COOKERIE. And the order of Meates to bee served to the Table, both for Flesh and Fish dayes. With many excellent wayes for the dressing of all usuall sortes of meates, both Bak’t, boyld, or rosted, of Flesh, fish, Fowle, or others, with their proper sawces. As also many rare Inventions in Cookery for made Dishes ; with most notable preserves of sundry sorts of Fruits. Like- wise for making many precious Waters, with divers approved Medicines for grievous diseases. With certaine points of Husbandry how to Order Oxen, Horses, Sheepe, Hogges, etc., with many other necessary points for Husbandmen to know. London, printed by Edw. All-de, dwelling neere Christ-Church, 1620. B. M. 120; A to G7 in eights; pages 1-102, table of contents. Black letter. London, printed by E. A., and are to be sold by F. Grove dwelling upon Snow-hill, 1629. P. 120; A to G7 in eights; pages 1-102, table of contents. Black letter. London, printed by Elizabeth All-de, dwelling neare Christ Church, 1634. B. M. 120 ; A to G in eights ; pages 1-102, table of contents. Black letter. London, printed by Jeane Bell, dwelling at the East end of Christ-Church, 1650. B. M. Identical with edition of 1634. KLINIKH OR THE DIET OF THE DISEASED. Divided into Three Bookes, etc., etc. Newly published by James Hart, Doctor in Physicke. London, printed by John Beale, for Robert Allot, and are to64 be sold at his shop at the signe of the black Beare in Pauls Church-yard, 1633. B. M. Folio ; 8 leaves, then a with 6, and aa with 4, A to OOO in fours. Dedication, table of contents, pages 1-411, index. Heraldic device on title-page, device on page 411. THE MYSTERYES OF NATURE AND ART : Conteined in foure severall Tretises, The first of water workes, The second of Fyer workes, The third of Drawing, Colouring, Painting, and Engraving, The fourth of divers Experiments, as wel serviceable as delightful; partly collected, and partly of the Author’s Peculiar Practise, and Invention by J. B. Imprinted for Ralph Mab, 1634. B. M. A to Ff in fours. Title in border of various implements and apparatus. There are a few receipts in the fourth book. By John Bate. THE LADIES CABINET OPENED : Wherein is found hidden severall Experiments in Preserving and Conserving, Physicke, and Surgery, Cookery and Hus- wifery. London, printed by M. P. for Richard Meighen, next to the Middle Temple in Fleet street, 1639. C. B. M. A. W. O. A to H in fours ; pages 1-59, table of contents. There is an ornament on the title-page consisting of skull, cross-bones, and the words “ non plus,” which is also in Epulario. This is the first edition of the fol- lowing book. THE LADIES CABINET ENLARGED AND OPENED : Containing Many Rare Secrets, and Rich Ornaments of several kindes, and different uses. Comprized under three general Heads. • (1. Preserving, Conserving, Candying, etc. 0£* \ 2. Physick and Chirurgery. ( 3. Cookery and Housewifery.65 W hereunto is added, Sundry Experiments, and Choice Ex- tractions of Waters, Oyls, etc. Collected and practised by the late Right Honorable and Learned Chymist, the Lord Ruthven. With a particular Table to each Part. London, printed by T. M. for M. M., G. Bedell, and T. Collins, at the middle Temple Gate, Fleet-street, 1654. B. M. 4 leaves, then A to Ks in twelves, followed by six leaves of L (one printed K3) which are occupied by advertisements ; preface, pages 1-42, contents of first part, pages 47-168, contents of second part, pages 181-227, contents of third part. Title-page is in black and red. The Second Edition, with Additions. London, printed by T. M. for G. Bedell and T. Collins at the Middle Temple Gate, Fleet street, 1655: P. [w\ A with 4 leaves, B to N6 in twelves (N6 is missing, it would consist of advertisements like the preceding five pages) ; preface signed M.B., stationers to reader, pages 1-48, contents of first part, pages 53-189, contents of second part, pages 202-252, contents of third part. Title- page is in black and red. The fourth Edit., with additions; London, printed for G. Bedel, and T. Collins at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street, 1667. B. M. A; W. O; A with 4 leaves, B to L in twelves, then M with 6 and N with 2 leaves ; preface, stationers to reader, pages 1-48, contents of first part, pages 53-189, contents of second part, pages 202-251, contents of third part. Title-page is in black and red. Hazlitt gives the third edition as 1655,120; title, etc., 4 leaves, B to Ns in twelves, the last 10 pages being occupied by advertisements. A PRECIOUS TREASURY OF TWENTY RARE SECRETS, Most Necessary, Pleasant, and Profitable for all sorts of People. F66 Published by La Fountaine, an Expert Operator. London, printed Anno Dom. 1649. B. M. 4° ; 4 leaves. A PRETIOUS TREASURY: or, A New Dispensatory, contayning 70 approved Physicall rare Receits. Most necessary and needfull for all sorts of people to have in their Families. Collected out of the most approved Authors, both in Physick and Chyrurgery : by Salvator Winter, and Signieur Francisco Dickinson, expert Operators. In two Bookes. London, printed by Tho. Harper for Richard Harper and are to be sold at his shop in Smithfield, at the Bible and Harpe, 1649. A to C2 in fours. Illustration of a quack doctor and his assistant on a platform, the former saying. “ Me cure all Diseases,” the latter, “ Your Money, Gent.” In the same year Winter published separately “ A new dispensatory of fourty physicall receipts,” which are mostly medical, and Dickinson, “ A precious treasury of twenty rare secrets.” These are the two books of “ a pretious treasury.” The two following books, bj? the same author, are bound together in four out of the five copies I have seen, but the pagination is distinct. (A) A CHOICE MANUALL, or, Rare and Select Secrets in Physick and Chirurgery : col- lected, and practised by the Right Honourable, the Countesse of Kent,* late deceased. Whereto are added several Experiments of the Virtues of Gascon Pouder, and Lapis contra Yarvam,' by a Professor of Physick. As also most exquisite waies of Preserving, Conserving, Candying, etc. The Second Edition. * See Professor Ferguson for an account of this lady.67 London, .printed by G. D. and are to be sold by‘William Shears, at the Sign of the Bible in St. Pauls Churchyard, 1653. A to Kj in twelves ; dedication signed W.J., letter to the reader signed W. Jar., table of contents, pages 1-190, epistle signed W.J., pages 191-206 containing the “ Experiments of the Virtues.” There is a portrait of the Countess as frontispiece. B. M. The Second Edition. London, printed by G. D., and are to be sold by William Shears, at the Sign of the Bible in St. Pauls Churchyard, 1655. B. M. A with 2 leaves, one blank, B with 6 leaves, C to Ls in twelves; letter to reader signed W. Jar., table of contents, pages 1-190, epistle signed W.J., pages 191-206. Portrait of the Countess as frontispiece. There is an error, accidental or wilful, in calling this the second edition. The Tenth Edition. London, printed by Gurt. Dawson, and are to be sold by Will. Shears, 1658. A. W. O. A to K5 in twelves. Contents and pages as in the 1653 edition. The portrait has below it, “ Elizabeth, late Countess of Kent.” The Fourteenth Edition. London, printed by Gartrude Dawson, and are to be sold by Margaret Shears at the Sign of the Blew Bible in Bedford Street in Coven Garden, 1663. B. M. Library of the Royal Institution; A to Lio in twelves, Ai being blank. Contents and pages as in the 1653 edition up to page 206. Then come additions from 207 to 233, followed by a table of contents of the additions. Portrait. , The Fifteenth Edition. London, printed by Gertrude Dawson, and are to be sold by Margaret Shears at the Sign of the Blew Bible in Bedford Street in Covent Garden, 1667. Identical with the edition of 1663. The eighteenth edition.68 London} printed for Henry Mortlock at the Phoenix in St. Paul’s Church-yard. 1682. B. M. Identical with the edition of 1663. The nineteenth edition. B. M. Same printers and apparently same contents, but the copy is imperfect. Prof. Ferguson gives the 4th edition as 1654, nth as I^59» the 12th as 2659 [sic) and the 19th as 1687. He also notes an edition of 1656. B) A TRUE GENTLEWOMANS DELIGHT, Wherein is contained all manner of Cookery : (Preserving, Together with Conserving. 1 Candying, Very necessary for all Ladies and Gentlewomen. Published by W. J., Gent. London, printed by G. D., and are to be sold by William Shears, at the Sign of the Bible in St. Paul’s Church-yard 5 1653. Kfi to Q in twelves ; dedication signed W. J., letter to reader signed W. J., table of contents, pages 1-140. London, printed by G. D. and are to be sold by William Shears, at the Sign of the Bible in St. Paul’s Church-yard, 1653- B. M. A and B with 14 leaves irregularly printed. C to H6 in twelves ; dedication, letter to reader, a second dedication,* table of contents, pages 1-140. London, printed by Gartrude Dawson, in St. Bartholomews Close, near the Half moon Taverns Alley end, 1658. A: W. O. Ks to Q in twelves; dedication, letter to reader,.table of contents, pages 1-140. * The dedication to Mrs. Popham is before “ A choice manuall •* in other editions.69 London, printed by Gartrude Dawson, living in White Cross- street in the Bowling-Alley, 1663. B.M. Library of the Royal Institution. Lio to S6 in twelves ; dedication, letter to reader, table of contents, pages 1-140. On the title-page W. G. is put for W. J. London, printed for Henry Mortlock, at the Phoenix in St Paul’s Church Yard. 1682: B. M. Identical with edition of 1663. London, printed for Henry Mortlock at the Phoenix in St Paul’s Church-yard. 1687: B: M: Imperfect, but seems to be identical with edition of 1663. 1 THE FRENCH COOK: Prescribing the way of making ready of all sorts of Meatss Fish and Flesh, with the proper Sauces, either to procure Appetite, or to advance the power of Digestion.- Also the Preparation of all Herbs and Fruits, so as their naturall Crudities are by art opposed ; with the whole skil of Pastry-work. Together with a Treatise of Conserves, both dry and liquid, a la mode de France. With an Alphabeticall Table explaining the hard words, and other usefull Tables. Written in French by Monsieur De La Varenne, Clerk of the Kitchin to the Lord Marquesse of Uxelles, and now Englished by I. D. G. London, printed for Charles Adams, and are to be sold at his Shop, at the Sign of the Talbot neere St. Dunstans Church in Fleetstreet, 1653. B. M. A to N6 in twelves ; dedication to the Earl of Tannet by Du Fresne, who taught De La Varenne English ; an address to the courteous reader by the translator ; a dedication to the High and Mighty Lord, Lewis Chaalon Du Bled, Marquesse of Uxelles, by “ Francis Peter (alias La Varenne) ” ; an address to the friendly reader by the author ; an70 address of the French Stationer to the reader, an alphabetical table, pages 1-276. A table of contents follows each branch of the subject. There is a frontispiece of a cook in his kitchen, with descriptions written under two of the utensils, “ A Tourt pan,” “ A Strayning pan. At the bottom is, “ London, printed for Cha. Adams at the lalbott in Fleet-streete over agt. St. Dunstan’s Church. F. sculp.” There are several editions of the original French version in the B. M. The Second Edition, carefully examined, and compared with the originall; and purged throughout, from man}7 mistakes, and defects ; and supplyed in diverse things, left out, in the former impression. With an Addition of some choise receits of Cookery lately grown in use amongst the Nobility and Gentry, by a prime artist of our owne Nation. London, printed for Charles Adams, at the Talbut neere St. Dunstans Church in Fleetstreet, 1654. A. W. O. 12° ; A to N in twelves ; after the alphabetical table is “ a table of viands ” for “ diverse seasons of the year,” then pages 1-297. Hazlitt gives the third edition as printed at London for Thomas Dring . . and John Leigh . . 1673 ; 8° ; A, 8 ; (a) 8 ; (b) 3 ; B—V4 in eights. A BOOK OF FRUITS AND FLOWERS. Shewing the Nature and Use of them, either for Meat or Medicine. As also to Preserve, Conserve, Candy, and in Wedges, or Dry them. To make Powders, Civet bagges, all sorts of Sugar-works, turn’d works in Sugar, Hollow, or Frutages ; and to Pickell them. And for Meat. To make Pyes, Biscat, Maid Dishes, Marchpanes, Leeches, and Snow, Craknels, Caudels, Cakes, Broths, Fritterstuffe, Puddings, Tarts, Syrupes, and Sallets. For Medicines. To make all sorts of Poultisses, and Serecloaths for any member swell’d or inflamed, Ointments,Waters for all Wounds,and Cancers, Salves for Aches, to take the Ague out of any place Burning or Scalding; for the stopping of suddain Bleeding, curing the Piles, Ulcers, Ruptures, Coughs, Con- sumptions, and killing of Warts, to dissolve the Stone, killing the Ring-worme, Emroids, and Dropsie, Paine in the Ears and Teeth, Deafnesse. Contra vim mortis, non est medicamen in hortis. London, printed by M. S. for Tho. Jenner at the South entrance of the Royall Exchange, London, 1653. B. M. Small 40 ; pages 1-49, but 48, 49, are wrongly put as 50, 51 ; illustra- tions of fruits and flowers. Another B. M. edition of 1653 is exactly similar, but the error in pagination is corrected, it is catalogued as 1656. An edition of 1656 has been sold at Sotheby’s. THE ART OF COOKERY. Refin'd and Augmented, containing an Abstract of some rare and rich unpublished Receipts of Cookery : Collected from the practice of that incomparable Master of these Arts, Mr. Jos. Cooper, chiefe Cook to the late King : With severall other practises by the Author, with an addition of Preserves, Conserves, etc., offering an infallible delight to all Judicious Readers. London, printed by F. G. for R. Lowndes at the White-lyon in St. Paul’s Church-yard, neer the West end, 1654. B. M. A has 6 leaves, B to I in twelves ; address to reader, table of receipts, pages 1-192. THE LADIES COMPANION, or, A Table furnished with sundry sorts of Pies and Tarts, gracefull at a Feast, with many excellent receipts for Pre- serving, Conserving, and Candying of all manner of fruits, with the making of Marchpanes, Marmalet, and Quindenis. By Persons of quality whose names are mentioned.72 London, printed by W. Bentley, and are to be sold by W. Shears, at the sign of the Bible, in S. Pauls Church yard, 1654. B. M. A to D in twelves, a leaf of A seems missing ; pages 1-82, table of con- tents. There is a cut of a thistle on the title-page. HEALTHS IMPROVEMENT: or, Rules Comprizing and Discovering the Nature, Method, and Manner of Preparing all sorts of food used in this nation. Written by that ever Famous Thomas Muffett, Doctor in Physick; Corrected and Enlarged by Christopher Bennett, Doctor in Physick, and Fellow of the Colledg of Physicians in London. London, printed by Tho. Newcomb for Samuel Thomson, at the sign of the White Horse in Pauls Churchyard, 1655. B. M. A. W. O. A to Pp in fours ; preface, table of contents, pages 1-296. This book relates to the preparation of food and the killing of animals for food. It bears the imprimatur of the President and Censors of the College of Physicians. Vicaire gives pages 8-296, misled by the second page of the table, which is printed 8. The B. M. has an edition of 1745. THE PERFECT COOK; Being the most exact directions for the making all kind of Pastes, with the perfect way teaching how to Raise, Season, and make all sorts of Pies, Pasties, Tarts, and Florentines, etc., now practised by the most famous and expert Cooks, both French and English. As also the perfect English Cook, or right method of the whole Art of Cookery, with the true ordering of French, Spanish, and Italian Kickshaws, with Alamode varieties for Persons of Honour. To which is added, the way of dressing all manner of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish, and making admirable Sauces, after the most refined way of French and English.73 The like never extant; With fifty-five ways of dressing of Eggs. By Mounsieur Marnette. Printed at London for Nath. Brooks at the Angel in Cornhil, 1656. B. M. A. W. O. A to O in twelves ; a blank page ; A to B in twelves, the last seven leaves being advertisements ; dedication, letter to the reader, table of contents, label (A12) with “ The perfect Cook ” across the page, pages 1-312 (there are errors in paging), blank leaf, pages 1-34 under the title of “ The Perfect English Cooke.” There is no table of contents to the second part. There is a frontispiece of two men and a woman in a kitchen. Above it is ‘‘The French Pastery-Cooke,” below “ Sold at the Angell in Cornhill, by N. Brooke, 1656. Ro. Vaughan sculp.” The head-line to the second part is sometimes '* The perfect English Cook,” sometimes “ The English Cook.” London, printed for Obadiah Blagrave at the Black Bear and Star in St. Pauls Church-Yard, over against the Little North- Door, 1686. A. W. O. A has 6 leaves, B to K in twelves, the last leaf being advertisements ; letter to the reader, table of contents to both parts, pages 1-213. There is no frontispiece to my copy. ARCHIMAGIRUS ANGLO-GALLICUS : or, Excellent & approved Receipts and Experiments in Cookery Together with the best way of Preserving. As also, Rare Formes of Sugar-works : According to the French Mode, and English Manner. Copied from a choice Manuscript of Sir Theodore Mayerne Knight, Physician to the late K. Charles. Magistro Artis, Edere est Esse. Printed for G. Bedell, and T. Collins, and are to be sold at their shop at the Middle-Temple-Gate, in Fleet-street, 1658. B. M. A. W. O. A has 4 leaves ; the catchword on A4 is misleading, as it seems to point to a missing dedication instead of to head-line ; B to Gs in twelves; publisher to the reader, pages 1-112, table of contents, 874 pages of advertisements. There is a half-title on page 69, Experpiments in Sugar-works, and corresponding head-lines from here to page 93. Page 94 is blank. There is a half-title on page 95, “ The best way of preserving, etc.,” and similar head-lines from here to page 112. The title-page is printed in red and black. THE ACCOMPLISHT COOK, Or the Art and Mystery of Cookery. Wherein the whole Art is revealed in a more easie and perfect Method, then hath been publisht in any Language, Expert and ready waves for the Dressing of all sorts of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish ; the Raising of Pastes ; the best Directions for all manner of Kickshaws, and the most Poinant Sauces ; with the Tearms of Carving and Sewing. An exact Account of all Dishes for the Season ; with other a la mode Curiosities. Together with the lively Illustrations of such necessary Figures as are referred to Practice. Approved by the Fifty Years Experience and Industry of Robert May, in his attendance on several Persons of Honour. London, printed by R. W. for Nath. Brooke, at the Sign of the Angel in Cornhill, 1660. B. M. P. Small 8° ; A to Hh in eights, three leaves and part of a fourth being occupied with advertisements ; dedication, preface, story of life, triumphs and trophies for festivals, poems by James Parry and John Town, carving and sewing, bills of fare, pages 1-447, table of contents. There is a portrait with “ ^Eatis Suae 71, 1660,” in background, and beneath the lines :— “ What ! wouldst thou view but in one face all liospitalitie, the race of those that for the Gusto stand, whose tables a whole Ark comand of Nature’s plentie, wouldst thou see this sight, peruse May’s booke, tis hee. Ja. Parry For Nathaniell Brooke, att the Angell in Cornehill.” According to Granger (Biog. Hist., 4. 68) the portrait is by Gaywood. Southey quotes the title-page in Omniana 2.70.75 The second Edition, with large Additions throughout the whole Work ; besides two hundred Figures of several Forms for all manner of bake’t Meats, (either Flesh of Fish) as Pyes, Tarts, Custards, Cheesecakes, and Florentines, placed in Tables and directed to the pages they appertain to. London, printed by R. Wood, for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Cornhill near the Royal Exchange, 1665. The third edition. London, printed by J. Winter, for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Cornhill neer the Royal Exchange, 1671. The third edition. London, printed for N. Brooke, and are to be sold by Tho: Archer at his shop under the Dyal of St. Dunstans Church in Fleet Street, 1671. Both in. B. M. 8° ; A to Ii in eights ; pages 1-461, 9 pages of advertisements. The fourth edition. London, printed for Robert Hartford at the Angel in Cornhill, near the Royal Exchange, 1678. B. M. Identical with edition of 1671 except that it stops at Ii4 with only one page of advertisements. The fifth edition. London, printed for Obadiah Blagrave at the Bear and Star in St. Pauls Church-Yard, 1685. B. M. P. Identical with edition of 1671 ; 9 pages of advertisements. THE WHOLE BODY OF COOKERY DISSECTED, Taught, and fully manifested, Methodically, Artificially, and according to the best Tradition of the English, French, Italian, Dutch, etc. Or, a Sympathie of all varieties in Naturall Compounds in that Mysterie. Wherein is contained certain Bills of Fare for the Seasons ol the year, for Feasts and Common Diets.76 Whereunto is annexed a Second Part of Rare Receipts of Cookery ; With certain useful Traditions. With a Book of Preserving, Conserving and Candying, after the most Exquisite and Newest manner: Delectable for Ladies and Gentlewomen. London, printed by R. W. for Giles Calvert, at the sign of the black Spread Eagle, at the West end of Pauls, 1661. Bod. A with 8 leaves, a with 8, b with 4, B to S4 in eights. Dedication signed Will. Rabisha, letter to reader, commendatory poem, bills of fare, tables of contents, pages 1-260, letter to reader signed W. R.( followed by a description of George Nevill’s feast in 1468. London, printed for E. Calvert, at the sign of the black Spread Eagle, at the West end of St. Pauls, 1673: Bod: A with 8 leaves, a with 8, b with 4, B to U4 in eights. The Second Edition. By William Rabisha. London, printed for E. C. and are to be sold by Francis Smith, at the Elephant and Castle near the Royal Exchange in Corn- hil, 1675. B: M; A with 8 leaves, a with 8, b with 4, B to U4 in eights. Watt notes an edition of 1682. THE LADIES DIRECTORY, In Choice Experiments & Curiosities of Preserving and Candy- ing both Fruits & Flowers. Also an Excellent way of making Cakes and other Comfits : With Rarities of many Precious Waters (among which are several Consumption Drinks, Approved of by the Doctors) and Perfumes. By Hanna Woolley, who hath had the Honour to perform such things the Entertainment of His late Majesty, as well as for the Nobility. To prevent Counterfeits : Take Notice, that these books are no where to be had, but from the Authress, and at Peter Drings at the Sun in the Poultery, Book-seller ; and at Tho.77 Milbourns, Printer, in Jewen street near Aldersgate-Street: Who also sells for her, a most excellent Cordial-Powder, and very soveraign Pils, London, printed by Tho. Milbourn for the Authress 1661. B. M. A to Hs in twelves ; dedication, table of contents, pages i-i 11. There is no frontispiece in this edition. London, printed by T. M. for Peter Dring, at the Sun, next Dore to the Rose Taverne in the Poultry, 1662. B. M. This is exactly similar to the 1661 edition, except that the title-page is altered, the dedication is curtailed, and there is a frontispiece of a lady and her cook in a kitchen, with the lettering, “ The Ladies Direc- tory, in Choice Experiments and Curiosities. A BOOK OF KNOWLEDGE In three parts, etc., etc. Composed by Samuel Strangehopes. London, printed for Charles Tyns, at the three Bibles on London-Bridge, 1663. B. M. 120 ; A to M in eights. I have an edition of 1679 (A to K in eights) and the B. M. one of 1696 (A to K in eights). THE COOKS GUIDE : or, Rare Receipts for Cookery. Published and set forth particularly for Ladies and Gentlewomen; being very beneficial for all those that desire the true way of dressing of all sorts of Flesh, Fowles, and Fish ; the best Directions for all manner of Kickshaws, and the most Ho-good Sawces : Whereby Noble Persons and others in their Hospitalities may be grati- fied in their Gusto’s. Never before Printed. By Hannah Wolley. London, printed for Peter Dring at the Sun in the Poultry, next door to the Rose-Tavern, 1664. B. M. 120 ; A with 8 and a with 4 leaves, B to H3 in eights ; dedication! preface, table of contents, pages 1-100, postscript.78 |0|- Bel I CHOICE AND EXPERIMENTED RECEIPTS in Physick and Chirurgery, as also Cordial and Distilled Waters and Spirits, Perfumes, and other Curiosities, Collected by the Honourable and truly learned Sir Kenelm Digby, Kt., Chancellour to Her Majesty the Queen Mother. Translated out of several Languages, by G. H. London, printed for the Author, and are to be sold by H. Brome, at the Star in Litte Britain, 1668. B. M. A. W. 0. Small 8° ; A has 4 leaves, a label on Ai, B-X in eights ; dedication, pages 1-308, table of receipts. There is a portrait of Digby as frontis- piece. By the side of the head are five volumes labelled, “ Plants, Sun. Powder, his Cookery, Rects. in Physick, etc., Sr. K. Digby of Bodyes.” The lettering below reads, “ The truly learned and Hono- ble Sr. Kenelme Digby Kt., Chancellor to the Q. Mother. Aged 62. Cross sculpsit.” The B. M. copy omits on the title-page “ and are to be sold . . . Litte Britain.” Professor Osier’s copy has a leaf after the label leaf with the advertisement:— “ There is now in the Press an Excellent Treatise of Cookery ; whereunto is added, Directions for making most sorts of Drinks, as Cider, Cherry Wine, Matheglin, etc., by the Honorable Sir Kenelme Digby, Knight.” The Second Edition Corrected and Amended. London, printed by Andrew Clark, for Henry Brome, at the Gun at the West-End of St. Pauls, 1675. B. M. A. W. O. Small 8° ; A to K in eights, Ks having label ; dedication, pages 1-146, table of receipts. The lettering of the frontispiece is slightly altered. THE CLOSET OF THE EMINENTLY LEARNED SIR KENELME DIGBY, KT., OPENED : Whereby is Discovered several Ways for making of Metheglin, Sider, Cherry-Wine, together with Excellent Directions for Cookery, as also for Preserving, Conserving, Candying. Published by his Son’s Consent.79 London, printed by E. C. for H. Brome, at the Star in Little Britain, 1669, B. M. Small 8° ; A has 4 leaves, one blank, B to V2 in eights ; dedication, pages 1-312, table of contents. There is a portrait as frontispiece inscribed, “ The truly Learned and Hon-ble Sr. Kenelme Digby, Kt., Chancellor to the Q. Mother. Aged 62. Cross sculpsit.” An edition catalogued in the Bodleian as 1699 has 1669 on its title- page, but the second 6 looks as if it had been altered with a pen. The title-page is a little different from the one given above. London, printed by E. C. & A. C. for H. Brome, at the West- End of St. Pauls, 1671. C. Small 8° ; A to R4 in eights ; letter to reader, pages’1-251, table of contents. No portrait. The Third Edition Corrected. London, printed by H. C. for H. Brome, at the West-End of St. Pauls, 1677. B. M. A. W. O. Small 8° ; A to R4 in eights ; dedication, pages 1-251, table of con- tents. There are translations compiled from Hartmann and Digby in French, German, and Dutch. THE QUEEN-LIKE CLOSET or Rich Cabinet: Stored with all manner of Rare Receipts for Preserving, Candying and Cookery. Very Pleasant and Beneficial to all Ingenious Persons of the Female Sex. By Hannah Wolley. Printed for R. Lowndes at the White Lion in Duck-Lane near West-Smithfield, 1670. B. M. A with 6 leaves, Ai being blank and A2 containing only license, B to T4 in twelves ; dedication, letter to ladies, a poem, pages 1-179, title- page to second part, pages 183-349, letter to reader followed by bills of fare, etc., on pages 353-380, table of contents to each part, postscript. There is a frontispiece with five views of distillery and kitchen ; it is engraved at the head with “ The Queen-like Closet or Rich Cabinet,” and at the foot with “ Printed for Rich. Lownes at the White Lion in Duck Layne, neare West Smithfield, 1670.”8o The Second Edition; London, printed for Richard Lowndes at the White Lion in Duck Lane near West-Smithfield, 1672. B. M. A. W. 0. A with 6 leaves, Aj being blank and A2 containing only license, B to R6 in twelves ; there are two pages of advertisements on R6. Identical with the 1670 edition edition except that the groups of pages are 1-155, 159-311, 315-344. With the B. M. copy is bound the sup- plement of 1674. The Third Edition. To which is added a Supplement, etc. Printed for Richard Lowndes at the White Lion in Duck-Lane, near West-Smithfield, 1675. B. M.- A. W. O. Library of Pharmaceutical Society. Identical with 1672 edition. The Supplement has a title-page dated 1674 ; A with 8 leaves irregularly numbered, B to K4 in twelves ; poem, preface, advertisement as to where mistresses and servants can find Mrs. Wolley, table of contents, pages 1-200. The Fourth Edition. London, printed for R. Chiswell at the Rose and Crown in St. Paul’s Church-yard, and T. Sawbridge at the Three Flowers-de-luce in Little Britain, 1681. B. M: A with six leaves, Ai being blank, and A2 containing only license. Identical with 1672 edition, except that pagination to Supplement is continuous with the body of the work. The Supplement is dated 1680. The Fifth Edition. London, printed for R. Chiswell at the Rose and Crown in St. Paul’s Church-yard* and T: Sawbridge at the Three Flowers- de-luce in Little Britain, 1684. B. M. A with six leaves, Ai and A2 as before, B to N6 in twelves ; the groups of pages are 1-120, 123-242, 244-264. Supplement is A with 12 leaves, then Bb to Gg in twelves. It is dated 1684. The adver- tisement is omitted. THE LADIES DELIGHT, or, a Rich Closet of Choice Experiments & Curiosities, con- taining the Art of Preserving & Candying both Fruits and Flowers ; Together with The Exact Cook, or The Art of8i Dressing all sorts of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish. By Hannah Woolley. To which is Added : The Ladies Physical Closet : or Excellent Receipts, and Rare Waters for Beautifying the Face and Body. London, printed by E. Milbourn, for N. Crouch, in Exchange- Alley over against the Royall-Exchange in Cornhil, 1672. B. M. A to Q in twelves ; only two leaves in A and four in Q. Pages 1-300 followed by bills of fare and table of contents ; the pagination is continuous throughout, but “ The Exact Cook” has a separate title- page, dedication, and headlines, and “ The Ladies Physical Closet ” has a separate title-page, headlines, and a final note. The title-pages are :— (1) The Exact Cook : or Excellent Receipts for Cookery, being the True way of Dressing all sorts of Flesh, Fowls, and Fish, with the best Directions for making of all manner of Cickshawes, Pyes, and the most curious Sauces : whereby Noble Persons and others in their Hospitalities, may be gratifyed in their gusto’s. By Hannah Wolley. London, printed by E. Milbourn, for Nathaniel Crouch, 1672. (2) The Ladies Physical Closet, or Choice Receipts and Experiments in Physick and Chyrurgery. With some Excellent Waters for Beautifying and Adorning the Face and Body. And some Rare Receipts in Cookery ; with Bills of Fare for all the Seasons in the Year. London, printed by Tho. Milbourn for Nath. Crouch, 1672. The frontispiece—a lady and her cook in the kitchen—is the same as that in the 1662 edition of “ The Ladies Directory ” ; the word “ de- light ” is substituted for “ directory.” The B. M. has a German edition of this book, entitled “ Frauen-Zimmers Zeit-Vertreib,” printed at Hamburg in 1674. The name is given as Anna Wolley. It has a somewhat similar frontispiece by Hensbergen. THE GENTLEWOMANS COMPANION; or, a guide to the Female Sex : containing Directions of Behaviour, in all Places, Companies, Relations, and Condi- tions, from their Childhood down to Old Age, viz., as, Children to Parents. ] f Huswifes to the House. Scholars to Governours. | | Mistresses to Servants. Single to Servants. }► Mothers to Children. Virgins to Suitors. j j Widows to the World. Married to Husbands. j [ Prudent to all. G82 With Letters and Discourses upon all Occasions. Whereunto is added, a Guide for Cook-maids, Dairy-maids, Chamber-maids, and all others that go to Service. The whole being an exact Rule for the Female Sex in General. By Hannah Wcolley. London, printed by A. Maxwell for Dorman Newman at the Kings-Arms in the Poultry, 1673. A. W. O. P. A with 8 leaves, the first blank ; b has 4 leaves ; B to S in eights ; dedication, table of contents, pages 1-262, a blank leaf, 8 pages of ad- vertisements. There is no portrait in my copy. London, printed by A. Maxwell for Edward Thomas, at the Adam and Eve in Little Brittain, 1675. B. M; A. W. O. The title-page is printed in black and red. In place of blank page is portrait of lady* as frontispiece, with coat of arms and “ W. Faithorne sculpt.” The blank S5 is filled with an advertisement of “ Doctor Sermon’s most famous, safe, cathartique and diuretique pills : . . . wherewith was cured his Grace the late Lord General Monck of the Dropsie in June and July, 1669.” Only 7 pages of advertisements. The Third Edition. London, printed by T. J. for Edward Thomas at the Adam and Eve in Little Brittain, 1682. B. M. Same portrait; title-page in black and red ; A to S6 in twelves ; dedication, table of contents, pages 1-371, advertisement page of Sermon’s pill and Dr. Beckett’s Tinctura Solis. THE ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOK, Describing the best and newest ways of ordering and dressing all sorts of Flesh, Fish, and Fowl, whether boiled, baked, stewed, roasted, broiled, frigassied, fryed, souc’d, marrinated, or pickled ; with their proper Sauces and Garnished : To- gether with all manner of the most approved Soops and Potages used, either in England or France. According to Walpole (Anecdotes of Painting, III, 910) this is a portrait of Mrs. Sarah Gilley.83 By T. P., J. P., R. C., N. B., and several other approved Cooks of London and Westminster. London, printed for Simon Miller at the Star, at the West-end of St. Paul’s, 1674. A. W. O. Bod. A has 6 leaves, the first three blank, the fourth with label; B to X4 in twelves, followed by 4 leaves of advertisements and 2 blank leaves ; epistle, pages 1-450, table of contents. According to Arber there was an edition called “ The compleat English and French Cook ” in 1690, and another edition under the title, “ The Compleat Cook ” in 1694. THE GENTLEWOMANS CABINET UNLOCKED, Wherein is contained many excellent Receipts for neat Dressing of divers sorts of Meats ; as Flesh and Fish, with their Proper Sauces. Also Directions for the best way of making Pancakes j 1 Puddings ) ( And such Fritters j Custards • like fine Tansies ' ( Cheesecakes ) ( Knacks. And other Delicate Dishes, which are most frequently used in Gentlemens Houses. Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger. B. M. Small 8° ; A to B4 ; there is no date. The Seventh Impression, with New Editions. London, printed by E. C. and are to be sold by John William- son at the Bible and Sun on London-bridge, 1675. B. M. Exactly similar to the first edition. The Eighth Impression. London, printed by E. Crouch, and are to be sold by F. Coles, T. Viere, and J. Wright, 1673. B. M. This is probably a misprint for 1678. The only difference from former editions is that in B the lines are closer, and so the last page has very little on it.84 THE ACCOMPLISH’D LADY’S DELIGHT In Preserving, Physick, Beautifying, and Cookery. Containing, I. The Art of Preserving, and Candying Fruits and Flowers, and the making of all sorts of Conserves, Syrups, and Jellies. II. The Physical Cabinet, or, Excellent Receipts in Physick and Chirurgery ; Together with some Rare Beautifying waters, to adorn and add Loveliness to the Face and Body : And also some New and Excellent Secrets and Experiments in the Art of Angling. III. The Compleat Cooks Guide, or, directions for dressing all sorts of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish, both in the English and French Mode,; with all Sauces and Sallets, and the making Pyes, Pasties, Tarts, and Custards, with the Forms and Shapes of many of them. The Second Edition Enlarged. London, printed for B. Harris, and are to be Sold at his Shop, at the Stationers Arms in Swithins Rents near the Royal Exchange, 1677. B. M. A. W. O. A to Q in twelves ; preface, pages 1-380, including three tables of contents at the end. The preface is signed T. P. There is a portrait of a lady on frontispiece, with the lettering, “ London, printed for Benjamin Harris” ; round a half-title are views of distillery, boudoir, and kitchen. On page 190 is an angling scene, opposite page 206 drawings of eight varieties of fish, opposite pages 272 and 273 shapes of pastry. There are separate title-pages to Part II, to the art of angling, and to Part III. According to Arber the first edition was printed in London for “ Ben Harris in Sweeting’s Alley, in Cornhill, 1675.” The third edition was 1683. A copy of it was sold at Sotheby’s on Nov. 30, 1898. The fourth edition enlarged. London, printed for Benjamin Harris, at the Stationers Arms and Anchor, in the Piazza, at the Royal-Exchange in Cornhil, 1684. B. M. A to K in twelves ; pages 1-208.The Fifth Edition enlarged. London, printed for Benjamin Harris, at the Stationers Arms and Anchor, in the Piazza, at the Royal Exchange in Cornhil, 1685. B. M. A to K6 in twelves; pages 1-208. At the beginning of the B. M. copy- have been inserted a deaf and dumb alphabet and “ a true lover’s knot.” According to Arber the sixth edition was 1686. In place of the Art of Angling are directions for starching, washing, etc., which are stated to be the “ First Impression.” Both sold by B. Billingsley at the Printing Press in Cornhill, 1686. The seventh edition enlarged. London, printed by B. Harris, in Maiden-head-Court in Great East-Cheap, 1696. A with 6 leaves, B to I<6 in twelves, the last two leaves blank, pages 1-178 followed by table of contents. Below portrait is “ Sold by William Hunt at the Ball in St. Paul’s Alley at the West End of St. Paul’s.” No Art of Angling or plates relating to it, but in its place are directions for starching and washing. KITCHIN-PHYSICK : By way of Dialogue betwixt Philanthropos, l j Physician, Eugenius, - Apothecary, Lazarus, ) ( Patient. With Rules and Directions, how to prevent Sickness, and cure Diseases by Dyet, and such things as are daily sold in the Market : as also, for the better enabling of Nurses, and such as attend sick People, there being nothing as yet extant (though much desired) of this Nature. London, printed for the Author, and are to be sold by T. Basset at the George near Clifford’s Inne in Fleet-street, 1676. B. M; Small 8° ; A with 4 leaves, B to G4 in eights. There is a second title- page :— A Practical and Short Discourse of Stoving and Bathing, with direc- tions how to Prepare, and make Artificial Baths, against such Diseases,86 as cannot be cured by the Natural Bathes at Bath, as Consumptions, Hectick Feavers, and the like. As also, for the better accommodating those Persons, whose Concernes, Sudden Sickness, and Infirmities, will not permit them to go to the Bath. London, printed for the Author, and are to be sold by T. Basset at the George near Clifford’s Inne in Fleet street, 1676. Dedication signed Thom. Cocke, preface, advertisement to patient, N. B., pages 17-87. Title-page dated 1675, to supplement, which is B to E in eights ; dedi- cation, pages 1-68. Opposite page 24 is a plate of a portable bath, very like the present cabinets for bathing. THE PLAIN DEALING POULTERER : or, A Poulterer’s Shop Opened : With All Sorts of Ware, and how to know the Young from the Old, being Dead or Alive; Also how to Feed and Fatten Fowl in a short time, with other things necessary to be known. Very useful for Gentlemen and others, that they may not be Deceived. By Adam Shewring, a Poulterer. If that thou intend well to fare, Be wise in Chusing Poulter’s ware. London, printed by C. Brome, at the Gun at the West-end of Saint Paul’s, 1677. B. M. 8° ; A to D3 in fours ; epistle, pages 1-26. THE COMPLEAT SERVANT-MAID; or the Young Maidens Tutor. Directing them how they may fit, and qualifie themselves for any of these Employments, viz., Waiting-Woman, ] Nursery-Maid, House-keeper, | Dairy-Maid, Chamber-Maid, \ Laundry-Maid, Cook-Maid, | | House-Maid, Under Cook-Maid, J [ Scullery-Maid.87 Composed for the great benefit and advantage of all young Maidens. London, printed for T. Passinger, at the Three Bibles on London Bridge, 1677. B. M. A. W. O. A has 6 leaves, the first having only the license, B to H in twelves ; epistle, pages 1-167, three pages of advertisements. There are two engraved plates of handwriting. Whereunto is added a Supplement, containing the choicest Receipts and rarest Secrets in Physick and Chirurgery. The fifth edition. Corrected and amended. London, printed for Tho. Passenger .... 1691. Small 8°, A to Ho in twelves. This is given by Hazlitt. RARE AND EXCELLENT RECEIPTS, Experienced and Taught by Mrs. Mary Tillinghast, and now Printed for the Use of her Scholars only. London, printed in the Year 1678. B. M. A, B in eights ; pages 1-30 ; no table of contents. London, printed in the year 1690. B. M. A. W. O. Identical with the former edition, except that it has an additional receipt (XLV1) on the last page. Both my copy and the B. M. copy have bound with this the 1690 edition of “ The Young Cook’s Monitor.” A NEW DIGESTER, or Engine for softening Bones, containing the Description of its Make and Use in these Particulars, viz., Cookery, Voyages at Sea. Confectionary, Making of Drinks, Chymistry, and Dying. With an Account of the Price a good big Engine will cost, and of the Profit it will afford. By Denys Papin, M.D., Fellow of the Royal Society.88 l<\iV London, printed by J. M. for Henry Bonwicke at the Red Lyon in S. Paul’s Church-yard, 1681. B. M. A. W. O. A to R in fours, the last two pages being blank ; there is a blank page at the beginning and a folding plate after A+ ; dedication, preface, index, pages 1-54. Opposite the title-page, “ At a Meeting of the Council of the Royal Society, Decemb. 8th, 1680. Ordered, That a Book intituled A New Digester, or Engine for softening Bones, etc. Written by Denys Papin, Doctor of Physick, and Fellow of this Society, be printed and Published, Chr. Wren.” Vicaire quotes two French editions, which, with a third, are in the library of the Medical Society. Evelyn once had a dinner prepared by this engine, vide Diary III, 82, 83- A CONTINUATION OF THE NEW DIGESTER OF BONES. Its improvements and new uses it hath been applyed to, both for Sea and Land. Together with some Improvements and new Uses of the Air- Pump, tryed both in England and in Italy. By Denis Papin, M.D., Fellow of the Royal Society. London, printed by Joseph Streater, near Pauls-Wharf in Thames-street, and are to be sold by the Book-Sellers in London, 1687. B. M. A. W. O. A with 3 leaves, B to R2 in fours, folding plates after A3 ; dedication, address to readers, pages 1-124. There is an imprimatur from the Royal Society. THE TRUE PRESERVER AND RESTORER OF HEALTH: Being a Choice Collection of Select and Experienced Remedies for all Distempers incident to Men, Women, and Children. Selected from, and Experienced by the most Famous Phy- sicians and Chyrurgeons of Europe. Together with Excellent Directions for Cookery ; as also for Preserving, and Conserving, and making all sorts of Metheglin, Sider, Cherry-Wine, etc. t89 With the Description of an Ingenious and Useful Engin for Dressing of Meat, and for Distilling the Choicest Cordial Waters without Wood, Coals, Candle, or Oyl. Published for the Publick-good by G. Hartman, Chymist. London, printed by T. B., and are to be sold at his House in Hewes-Court in Black-Friers, 1682. B. M. A has 10 leaves ; B to Ee in eights, followed by A to B in eights ; dedication, letter to reader, index of both parts, description of engine with diagram, pages 1-352 ; title-page to second part, pages 1 to 80, followed by a collection of receipts on pages 1-32. Hartman was steward to Sir Kenelm Digby according to Arber’s Term Catalogues, II, 16. The Second Edition, with Additions. London, Printed by T. B. and are to be sold by Randol Taylor, near Stationers Hall* 1684. B. M. A. W. 0. A has 8 leaves, there being no description of engine, otherwise the book is the same as 1682. The additions mentioned do not exist. The title-page to the second part is dated 1682. Mrs. Pennell has a copy which is called the second edition, and which is identical with the edition of 1682, with the exception of the title-page. This begins, “ Hartman’s Curiosities of Art and Nature, or, The true preserver and restorer of health, etc., etc., and professes to give receipts for destroying buggs and rats, and for many other things, which of course are not in the book itself. It was “ printed by A. C. at the Ring in Little Britain, pr. 3s. Where is sold A thousand Notable Things to prevent the Plague and all Distempers ; The Way to get Wealth and The Way to save Wealth.” A PERFECT SCHOOL OF INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE OFFICERS OF THE MOUTH: Shewing the whole Art of A Master of the \ , A Master Confectioner Houshold ( ) A Master Cook A Master Carver i 1 A Master Pastryman A Master Butler ) ( Being a Work of singular Use for Ladies and Gentlewomen, and all Persons whatsoever that are desirous to be acquainted withgo the most Excellent Arts of Carving, Cookery, Pastry, Pre- serving, and Laying a Cloth for Grand Entertainments. The like never before extant in any Language. Adorned with Pictures curiously Ingraven, displaying the whole Arts. By Giles Rose, one of the Master Cooks in His Majesties Kitchen. London, printed for R. Bentley and M. Magnes, in Russel- street, in Covent-Garden, 1682. B. M. A. W. O. P. A to Bb6 in twelves ; dedication, letter to the reader, contents, pages 1-563. This is a translation of “ L’escole parfaite des ofificiers de Bouche,” which was published at Paris in 1662. THE YOUNG COOKS MONITOR : or Directions for Cookery and Distilling, Being a choice Com- pendium of Excellent Receipts, made Publick for the Use and Benefit of my Schollars. By M. H. London, printed by William Downing in Great St. Bartholo- mew-Close, 1683. B. M. Small 8° ; A to K in eights; dedication, pages 1-149, table of contents ; there are two blank pages before title-page. The Second Edition, with large Additions. Printed for the Author, at her House in Lime-street, 1690. B. M. A. W. 0. Small 8°; A to M in eights; dedication, pages 1-179, there are four blank pages before title-page, table of contents on pages 161- 164 ; on pages 165-179 is “ An Appendix to the Young Cook’s Monitor,” which has no table of contents. THE ACCOMPLISHED LADIES RICH CLOSET OF RARITIES : Or, the Ingenious Gentlewoman and Servant-Maids Delightful Companion. Containing many Excellent Things for the Accomplishment of the Female Sex, after the exactest Manner and Method, viz.9i (i) The Art of Distilling. (2) Making Artificial Wines. (3) Making Syrups. (4) Conserving, Preserving, etc. (5) Candy- ing and Drying Fruits, etc. (6) Confectioning. (7) Carving. (8) To make Beautifying waters, Oyls, Pomatums, Musk- balls, Perfumes, etc. (9) Physical and Chyrurgical Receipts. (10) The Duty of a Wet Nurse ; and to know and cure Diseases in Children, etc. (11) The Compleat Chamber-Maids In- structions in Pickling, making Spoon-meats, Washing, Starch- ing, taking out Spots and Stains. Scowring Gold or Silver- Lace, Point, etc. (12) The Experienced Cook-Maid, or In- structions for Dressing, Garnishing, Making Sawces, serving up ; together, with the Art of Pastry. (13) Bills of Fare. (14) The Accomplished Dairy-Maids Directions, etc. (15) The Judicious Midwives Directions, how Women in Travail before and after Delivery ought to be used ; as also the Child ; and what relates to the Preservation of them both. To which is added a Second Part, Containing Directions for the guidance of a Young Gentlewoman as to her Behaviour and seemly Deportment, etc. The Second Edition, with many Additions. London, printed by W. W. for Nicholas Boddington in Duck- Lane ; and Josiah Blare on London-Bridge, 1687. B. M. A. W. O. A to K in twelves ; License on back of title, preface signed John Shirley, pages 1-231. There is a frontispiece consisting of eight scenes of kitchen, garden, etc., round a half-title. On pages 126-7 are shapes of pastry. The Third Edition, with Additions, Corrected and amended. London, printed by W. and J. Wilde, for N. Boddington in Duck-Lane ; and J. Blare on London-Bridge, 1691. A. W. O. A to I in twelves ; license, preface, pages 9-216. The shapes of pastry are on pages 124, 5. The Fourth Edition with large Additions Corrected and Amended. London, Printed by W. Wilde for N. Boddington, Duck Lane ; and J. Blare on London-Bridge, 169-.92 A with 6 leaves, B to Kb in twelves ; pages 9-222. The plates are on pages 119, 120. The fifth edition with large additions, corrected and amended. London, printed by W; Wilde, for N. Boddington in Duck Lane ; and J. Blare on London-Bridge, 1696: B; M; A to H in twelves ; pages 7-192. There is another copy of the fifth edition in the B. M. dated 1699. MONTHLY OBSERVATIONS: For the preserving of Health, with a Long and Comfortable Life, in this our Pilgrimage on Earth ; but more particularly for the Spring and Summer Seasons. By Phylotheus Physiologus: With Allowance. London, printed, and sold, by Andrew Sowle, at the Three Keys in Nags Head-Court in Grace-Church Street, over- against the Conduit, 1688. B. M: 120 ; A to E in eights ; pages 3-44. This contains many receipts for gruel. WISDOM’S DICTATES : Or, Aphorisms and Rules, Physical, Moral, and Divine ; for Preserving the Health of the Body, and the Peace of the Mind, fit to be regarded and practised by all that would enjoy the Blessings of the present and future World. To which is added A Bill of Fare of Seventy five Noble Dishes of Excellent Food, far exceeding those made of Fish or Flesh, which Banquet I present to the Sons of Wisdom, or such as shall decline that depraved Custom of Eating Flesh and Blood. By Tho. Tryon, Student in Physick, and Author of Pytha- goras’ Mystick Philosophy Revived, wherein the Mysteries of Dreams, Visions, Angels, and Spirits are unfolded, and their secret Communications to Mankind.93 London, printed for Tho. Salusbury, at the Sign of the Temple near Temple-Bar in Fleetstreet, 1691. B. M. 120 ; A with 3 leaves, B to L6 in twelves ; preface, pages 1—153, the last three occupied with advertisements. London, printed for John Salusbury, at the Rising-Sun in Cornhil, 1696. B. M. 120 ; A with 3 leaves, B to G in twelves ; preface, pages 1-144. THE GOOD HOUSE-WIFE MADE A DOCTOR, Or, health’s choice and sure Friend, being a Plain Way of Nature’s own prescribing, to Prevent and Cure most Diseases incident to Men, Women, and Children, by Diet and Kitchin Physick only. With some Remarks on the Practice of Physic and Chymistry. By Thomas Tryon, Student in Physick ; and Author of the Way to Health, Long Life and Happiness, Country-mans Companion, The New Art of Brewing, etc. The Second Edition. To which is added some Observations on the Tedious Methods of Unskilful Chyrurgions; with Cheap and Easie Remedies, by the same Author; London, printed for H. N. and T. S. And are to be Sold by Randal Taylor, near Stationers-Hall, 1692. B. M; 120 ; A with 6 leaves, B to N in twelves, N12 being blank ; preface, table of contents, pages 1-285. THE GENTEEL HOUSE-KEEPERS PASTIME : Or, the Mode of Carving at the Table Represented in a Pack of Playing Cards. By which, together with the Instructions in this Book, any ordinary Capacity may easily learn how to Cut up or Carve in Mode all the most usual Dishes of Flesh, Fish, Fowl, and Baked Meats ; and how to make the several Services of the same at the Table ; with the several Sawces and Garnishes proper to each Dish of Meat. •94 Set forth by several of the best Masters in the Faculty of Carving, and Published for publick Use. London, printed for J. Moxon, and sold at his Shop at the Atlas in Warwick-lane ; and at the three Bells in Ludgate- street, 1693. Bod. 12° ; A to C in eights. D with 4 leaves contains only advertisements. The pack of cards is not with the book. THE TRUE WAY OF PRESERVING AND CANDYING. And Making Several Sorts of Sweet-meats, According to the Best and Truest Manner. Made Publick for the Benefit of all English Ladies and Gentle- women ; especially for my Scholars. London, printed for the Author, in the Year, MDCXCV. A. W. 0. Small 8° ; A to K in eights, a blank page both at beginning and end ; dedication, pages 7-154, table of contents. MISCELLANIA, Or, a Collection of Necessary, Useful, and Profitable Tracts on Variety of Subjects, which for their Excellency, and Benefit of Mankind, are Compiled in one Volume. By Thomas Tryon Physiologus. London, printed and sold by T. Sowle in White-Hart-Court in Grace-Church-street, 1696. B. M. A with six leaves followed by A (repeated) to 16 in twelves, H having only six, last leaf blank ; table of contents, preface, pages 1-168. THE FAMILY DICTIONARY ; Or, Household Companion : Wherein are Alphabetically laid down Exact Rules and Choice Physical Receipts for the Pre- servation of Health, Prevention of Sickness, and Curing the several Diseases, Distempers, and Grievances, incident to Men, Women, and Children.95 Also, Directions for Making Oils, Ointments, Salvesj Cordial- Waters, Powders, Pills, Bolus’s, Lozenges, Chymical Pre- parations, Physical Wines, Ales, and other Liquors, etc., and Descriptions of the Virtues of Herbs, Fruits, Flowers, Seeds, Roots, Barks, Minerals, and Parts of Living Creatures, used in Medicinal Potions, etc. Likewise, Directions for Cookery in Dressing Flesh, Fish, Fowl, Seasoning, Garnishing, Sauces, and Serving-up in the Best and most acceptable Manner. The Whole Art of Pastry, Conserving, Preserving, Candying, Confectioning, etc. Also the Way of Making all sorts of Perfumes, Beautifying- Waters, Pomatums, Washes, Sweet-Balls, Sweet-Bags, and Essences : Taking Spots and Stains out of Garments, Linnet etc., and Preserving them from Moths, etc. Washing Pointj Sarsnets, and Restoring Faded Linnen ; and Scowring, or Brightening Tarnished Gold or Silver Lace, Plate, etc. To- gether, with the Art of Making all sorts of English Wines, as Currants, Cherries, Gooseberries, and Cyder, Mead, Metheglin^ etc. And the Arts of Fining and Recovering Foul or Faded Wines. The Mystery of Pickling, and keeping all sorts of Pickles throughout the Year. To which is added as an Appendix, the Explanation of Physical Terms, Bills of Fare in all Seasons of the Year. With the Art of Carving and many other Useful Matters. By J. H. London, printed for H. Rhodes, at the Star, the Corner of Bride-lane, in Fleet-street, 1695. I have not seen this edition, but the title-page was copied tor me by the owner of a copy. Mr. F. G. Smart. The Second Edition, Corrected and much Enlarged. By William Salmon, Professor of Physick. London, printed for H. Rhodes, at the Star, the Corner of Bride-lane, in Fleet-street: and sold by R. Clavel at the Peacock against St. Dunstan’s Church in Fleetstreet, 1696. B. M. P. A with 4 leaves, B to Cc in eights ; preface, pages 1-393, seven pages of advertisements.96 THE WAY TO SAVE WEALTH. London, printed for G. Conyers, at the Golden Ring in Little Britain, over-against the Sugar-loaf, 1697. 120; A to Dj in sixes, C having 4 leaves. Pages 1-24 followed by pages 1-12 under the heading of “ Notable Things." Bound up with the B. M. copy is another pamphlet called “ Notable things.” A to B3 in sixes, Ai is missing ; pages 3-24. By Thomas Tryon. Crat. in Glauc. London, Printed for B. Tooke, at the Middle-Temple Gate in Title-page, A with 8 leaves, a with 8, b with 3, then B to R in eights ; dedication, preface, plan of a royal garden, pages 1-192, appendix, table. There is a folding plate between 108 and 109. By John Evelyn. The quotation is abbreviated from the Glauccs of Cratinus, “ It is not in every man’s power to season well." B. M. ACETARIA. A DISCOURSE OF SALLETS, By J. E., S.R.S., Author of the Kalendarium; O’u 7ravro? dv8pu<i eirrtu dprucrai kolA.ws. Fleetstreet, 1699. B. M.97 H ii Cookery Books from 1700. I have made a list of a few which have come under my notice in case I ever wish to pursue the subject; 1701. The whole duty of a woman, or, a guide to the female sex from sixteen to sixty, by a lady. Third edition: (B. M.) B. M. has also 1707 (4), 1712 (5), and an enlarged edition, called the second, 1740. Mrs. Pennell has 1735 (8). 1702. The court and country cook, faithfully translated out of French into English by J. K. I once saw this book at a sale but have not come across it again. 1704. A treatise of foods in general by Louis Lemery. I have not seen this book, which is given by Hazlitt. The French original is in the B. M. 1705. Apicii coelii de opsoniis et condimentis sive arte coqui- naria, libri decern. Cum annotationibus Martini Lister, e Medicis domesticis serenissimae Majestatis Reginae Annae. . . . Londini, typis Gulielmi Bowyer, MDCCV. (B. M.) Watt states that only 120 copies were printed. The second edition, 1709, limited to 100 copies, was printed in Amsterdam. 1705. Beauties Treasury, or, the Ladies Vade Mecum, by J. W. (A. W. 0.) 1705. The pastry-cook’s vade-mecum, or, a pocket com- panion for cooks, house-keepers, country gentlewomen, etc. (Library of the Royal Institution.) 1708. England’s newest way in all sorts of cookery, pastry, and all pickles that are to be used, by Henry Howard, 2nd edition. (P.) 1710 and 1726 (s) in B. M. Mrs. Pennell gives the first edition as 1703.98 1708: The art of cookery : a poem in imitation of Horace’s art of poetry. (B. M.) This book, by W. King, is not a cookery book. There are other edi- tions in B. M. and P. 1709. The Queen’s Royal Cookery, by T. Hall. 1713 (2) in B. M., P., A. W. O.; 1719 (3). i73° (5) in B. M. 1710. Royal Cookery, or, the complete court-cook, by Patrick Lamb, 2nd edition. (B. M., A. W. O.) 1716 (also called 2), 1726 (3), 1731, in B. M. ; 1726 in P. 1711. New Curiosities in art and nature, by the Sieur Lemery. (B. M.) 1711. The Compleat Gentlewoman, by Hannah Woolley. (A. W. O.) Mrs. Woolley was born in 1623, so this can hardly be an authentic work* 1714. A Collection of above three hundred receipts in Cookery, physick, and surgery, 2nd edition. (B. M.) 1719 (2) and 1734 (5) in P. The book is by Mary Kittilby, who died between 1719 and 1734. 1718. Mrs. Mary Eales’s receipts, confectioner to her late Majesty Queen Anne. (B. M. P.) 1733. 1767 (2) in B. M. 1723. The Cook’s and Confectioner’s dictionary or the accomplish’d housewife’s companion, by John Nott. (B. M.) 1724 (2)in P. ; 1726 (3) in B. M. 1723. Court cookery : or the compleat English cook, by Robert Smith. (B. M.) 1727. The country housewife and lady’s director, by R. Bradley, Professor of Botany in the University of Cambridge and F.R.S., 2nd edition. (B. M.) 1732 (6) in P.99 1729. The Compleat housewife or accomplish’d gentle- woman’s companion, by E. Smith, 3rd edition. (B. M.) *734 (6), 1741(10), 1742(11), 1753 (15) in B. M. 1736 (7) and 1742 in P. Mrs. Pennell has the second edition (1727) and the eighteenth (1773). 1730. The Complete practical cook, or, a new system of the whole art and mystery of cookery, by Charles Carter. (B. M.) 1732. The Compleat city and country cook, or, accomplish’d housewife, by Charles Carter. (B. M., P.) 1733. The Modern Cook, by Mr. Vincent La Chapelle. (B. M.) 1736 (2), a French edition of 1742, 1744 (3) in B. M. ; 1744 in P. Mrs. Pennell has an edition of 1751. 1733. The Compleat confectioner. ... a collection of all the receipts of the late ingenious Mrs. Eales, con- fectioner to their late Majesties King William and Queen Anne. (B. M.) 1753 (5) in P. The fourth edition was 1742. 1734. Five hundred new receipts, by John Middleton, revised and recommended by Mr. Henry Howard. (B. M.) 1734. The young lady’s companion in cookery and pastry, preserving, pickling, candying, &c. (B. M:) 1737. The Complete family-piece, 2nd edition. (P.) 1739. The house-keeper’s pocket book, and compleat family cook, by Mrs. Sarah Harrison, of Devonshire. (B. M.) 1755 in P. ; 1760 (7), 1764 (8), 1777 (9) in B. M. Mrs. Pennell has 1748 (4). B. M. has also an edition with no author or date, but with 1783 under frontispiece. 1739. Dictionarium domesticum, by Nathan Bailey; (B. M.) 1740. The lady’s companion, or, an infallible guide to the fair sex, second edition. (Mrs. Pennell.)IOO 1740. An alarm to all persons touching their health and lives, etc., by Jaspar Arnaud, sometime past first cook to the late Duke of Orleands, and now for some time cook in London. (Mrs. Pennell.) 1740 (circa). E. Kidder’s receipts of pastry and cookery. (B. M.) The whole book is engraved. There are two editions in B. M. 1741. The family magazine, by Arabella Atkyns. (B. M. A. W. O.) B. M. has 1754 (4). 1743. A present for a servant maid. (B; M.) By Mrs. Eliza Haywood. A Dublin edition of 1744 in B. M. 1744; Adam’s luxury and Eve’s Cookery ; or, the kitchen- garden display’d. (B. M.) This sounds as if it was the first edition of “ Primitive Cookery, or the kitchen-garden display’d, 1767,” but it seems a different book. 1744. The instructor, by George Fisher, seventh edition. (P.) *1763 and 1785 in B. M. 1745. The accomplish’d housewife, or the gentlewoman’s companion. (P.) Mrs. Pennell has 1748. 1745; A treatise of all sorts of foods by Louis Lemery, trans- lated by D. Hay, M.D. (Mrs. Pennell.) bci 1747. The art of cookery made plain and easy, by a lady. AuGucwV.V (]-* This is the first edition of Mrs. Hannah Glasse ; 1751 (4), 1755, 1760, 1765 (9). 1770. 1774. 1784. in B. M. ; 1758 (6), 1784 in P. Mrs. Pennell has 1763 (8). 1749. English housewifery exemplified in above four hundred and fifty receipts by Elizabeth Moxon. Leedes. (B. M.)IOI 1758: English housewifery improved, or a supplement to Moxon’s cookery containing upwards of sixty modern and valuable receipts. Leedes. (B. M.) The two books were united in 175S (4), which A.W. O. has. P. has an undated fourth edition without the supplement, 1778 (12), and A. W. O., 1789 (13). P. has another fourth edition undated and with the supple- ment. 1750. The country housewife's family companion, the whole founded on near thirty years experience by W. Ellis; Farmer, at Little Gaddesden, near Hempstead, Hert- fords. (B. M. P.) 1750 (circa)'. The art of confectionary, by the late ingenious Mr. Edw. Lambert, confectioner in Pall-Mall. (B. M: P.) 1750 (circa)'. The prudent housewife or complete English cook for town and country. By Mrs. Fisher, of Rich monds (B. M.) 1753. The young woman’s companion, or, the servant maids assistant, by Mary Johnson. (P.) 1753. The family’s best friend, or the whole art of cookery made plain and easy, by Arabella Fairfax. I saw this in a catalogue but was too late to secure it. 1754. The director, or, young woman’s best companion, by Sarah Jackson. (B. M.) The third edition was 1759. 1759. A new and easy method of cookery, by Elizabeth Cleland. Second edition. Edinburgh. (B. M.) 1759. A complete system of cookery, collected from several years experience under the celebrated Mr. de St. Clouet, sometime since cook to his Grace the Duke of102 Newcastle. To which is added a true character of M. de St. Cluet, by William Verrall. (B. M.) From the preface it seems that St. Clouet was afterwards cook to the “ Marshal Richlieu.” 1760 [circa). The new book of cookery, by Mrs. Eliz. Price of Berkeley Square, a new edition. (Mrs. Pennell.) 1760 (circa); The town and country Cook, or young woman’s best guide. (Mrs: Pennell.) 1760 [circa). Professed Cookery, by Ann Cook, Author of the True Art of Cookery. (P.) 1760. The servant's directory, by H. Glass, Author of the Art of Cookery made plain. (B. M. P.) 1762. The London Cook, by William Gelleroy. (Mrs. Pennell.) 1766: The art of modern cookery displayed. Given by Watt. 1766. Madam Johnson’s Present, or every young woman’s companion, 4th edition. (P.) 1767. The modern Art of Cookery improved, by Mrs. Ann Shackleford of Winchester. (Mrs. Pennell.) B. M. has an undated edition, printed at Dublin, which is bound up with “ The art and mystery of Vintners, 1750.” 1767. Primitive Cookery, or, the kitchin garden display’d. Second edition. (B. M.) This is a book of vegetarian cookery, next in date to those of Tryon, which have been already noted. Watt gives the first edition as 1766. The earliest French book on the subject seems to be one in 1799 (Vicaire, 160). 1768. The complete cook, by James Jen'ks. (B. M.)103 1769. The experienced English house-keeper, by Elizabeth Raff aid. Manchester. (B. M.) l77& (5). 1780 (7), 1782 (8), 1786(10), 1801 inB. M.; 1782 and 1786 in P. Mrs. Pennell has 1775 (4)- A. W. O. has 1787 and 1794. 1769. Art of Cookery and Pastery made easy and familiar, by J. Skeat. London and Norwich. (B. M.) 1769. The lady’s, housewife’s, and cookmaid’s assistant ; or the art of cookery explained and adapted to the meanest capacity, by E. Taylor. Berwick. (B. M.) 1769. The professed cook, 2 vols. (B; M.) 1770. The court and country Confectioner, or, the house- keeper’s guide, by an ingenious foreigner, now head confectioner to the Spanish Ambassador in England. (P-) 1772 in B. M. and P. ; the author’s name given as Borella. 1770 (circa). The compleat confectioner, or the whole art of confectionary made plain and easy, by H. Glasse,- author of the art of Cookery. (B. M. P.) 1770 (circa). The British housewife, by Mrs. Martha Bradley, late of Bath. (P.) 1774. A collection of one hundred and thirty-seven approved receipts in pastry and cookery. Aberdeen. (B. M.) 1775. A choice collection of cookery receipts. Newcastle. (B. M.) 1775. The ladies’ assistant : ; : published from the manuscript collection of Mrs. Charlotte Mason: (Mrs. Pennell.) B. M. and P, have 1786. 1777. The young ladies’ guide in the art of cookery, by Eliz; Marshall. Newcastle. (P.)1777- The young ladies’ school of arts, by Mrs. Hannah Robertson, 4th edition. York. (P.) 1780 [circa). The new and complete universal cook, or young woman’s best guide, by Mrs. Ann Partridge of Great George Street, Westminster. (B. M.) 1780 [circa). The Farmer’s wife, or complete country house- wife. (B. M.) Receipts are on pages 126-132. 1780 [circa): The accomplished lady’s delight in cookery; or, the complete servant’s maid’s guide. Wolverhampton.- (B. M.) 1781. An essay on culinary poisons. (B. M: P.) 1781. The practice of modern cookery, by George Dalrymple. (B. M. P.) 1783. The London art of Cookery, by John Farley. (B. M.) A. W. Ot has 1800 (9), P. has 1804 (10). 1784. Cookery and pastry, by Mrs. Maciver, Edinburgh. (A. W. 0.) 1800 in P., the preface to which shows there was an edition of 1788. 1788. The English art of cookery, by Richard Briggs. Watt gives 1788 and 1790. The B.M. has only “ The new art of cookery,” by Richard Briggs, Philadelphia, 1792. Mrs. Pennell has 1794 (3). 1788. The honours of the table, or, rules for behaviour during meals, with the whole art of carving. (B. M.) 1791 (2) in P., 4th edition in A. W. O., by J. Trusler. 1789. The complete confectioner ; or the whole art of con- fectionary. (B. M.) This is by Frederick Nutt. B. M. has the 2nd edition also. 1789. The lady’s complete guide, by Mrs. Mary Cole. (Mrs, Pennell.)105 1790. The ladies’ library (2 vols). (A. W; O.) 1790 {circa). The housekeeper’s valuable present, or lady’s closet companion, by Robert Abbot. (B. M.) 1791. The practice of cookery, pastry, pickling, preserving, etc., by Mrs. Frazer, Edinburgh. (B. M.) 1795 (2) in B. M. 1792. The universal cook and city and country housekeeper, by Francis Collingwood and John Woollains. (B. M.) 1806 (4) in B. M. and P. I793- The French Family Cook. (P.) 1794. Domestic economy, or, a complete system of English housekeeping, by Maximilian Hazlemore. (B. M.) 1795. The frugal housewife, or, complete woman cook, by Susannah Carter of Clerkenwell. (B. M.) B. M. has another edition, 1800 (?). 1795. Hints for the relief of the poor, by suggesting how they may procure a cheap and comfortable subsistence in times of scarcity. (B. M.) A pamphlet with receipts. 1795. The new experienced English House-keeper, by Mrs. Sarah Martin. (Mrs. Pennell.) 1797. The accomplished housekeeper and universal cook, by T. Williams. 1798. An economical and new method of cookery, by Eliza Melroe. (B. M.) 1798. The new practice of cookery, by Mrs. Donat and Mrs. Hudson. Given in Watt. 1800. The complete British cook, by Mary Holland. (B. M.)lo6 1800 {circa). The ladies best companion* by Mrs: Amelia Chambers. (B. M.) 1800 {circa). The cook and confectioner’s guides by W: Carter.* (A. W. O.) 1800 {circa). The new London family cook, by Duncan Macdonald. (A. W. O.) 1804. Culina famulatrix medicinae, by Ignotus, York. (B. M.) By A. Hunter, M.D., F.R.S., L. and E.; 1805, 1806, 1807 in B. M., 1806 in P. 1805. The housekeeper’s instructor or universal family cook, by W. A. Henderson, twelfth edition, corrected by J. C. Schnebbelie. (B. M.) 1811 (17) in p. 1806. A complete system of cookery, by John Simpson. (P.) 1816 in P. ; “ Simpson’s cookery improved and modernised,” by H. W. Brand, 1834, in P. and B. M. 1807. The art of cookery, by John Morland. Given in Watt. 1808. A new system of domestic cookery. (B. M.) By Mrs. Maria Eliza Rundell. 1808. The Lincolnshire family jewel, or, the art of cookery made plain and easy, Lincoln: (B. M.) 1808: The town and country cookery, or housekeeper’s com- panion. (B. M.) 1809. The complete confectioner and family cook, by J: Caird; Leith: (B. M.) 1810. The new family receipt book, containing seven hun- dred truly valuable receipts. (B. M.) By Mrs. Maria Eliza Rundell.io7 1810. The housekeeper’s domestic library, by Charles Millington. (P.) 1810. The female economist, by Mrs. Smith. Given in Watt. 1810. Domestic management, by Arabella Plumptre. Given in Watt. 1812. The professed cook, by B. Clermont, 10th edition. (B. M.) Hazlitt gives the 3rd edition as 1776. 1813. The French cook, by L. E. Ude. (B. M.) 1814 (2), 1822 (7), 1827 (8), 1829 (10) in B. M. 1813. The young woman’s companion, or frugal housewife. Manchester. (A. W. O.) No date. The art of cookery made plain and easy, . . . . Carefully selected from, and containing all the most useful Receipts of Mrs. Glasse. (B. M.) No date. The British housewife. (B. M.) 1814. The school of good living. (P. A. W. 0.) This is an essay on cookery, and gives lists of cookery books in different languages. The author writes from Bath.108 III. Foreign Books. MSS. I have a few foreign books, but only three of much interest. They are books on carving. (а) De sectione mensaria. This is a small oblong of 31 pages, A to B in eights, followed by 48 plates. Vicaire (782) states that the copy in the Bibliotheque de 1’Arsenal, which is apparently the only copy he has seen, has no title-page. Neither has mine, and it seems doubtful if there was one. On Ai is the half-title, De sectione mensaria, followed by an address, “ Ad Lectorem,” which begins with the verses :— Si multis quondam placuit sine veste libellus Quidni vestitus, recte placere potest ! Nuda fugit virtus : puro velamine gaudet. Hunc cinctum ergo sua simplicitate cole. The verses are signed “ C. S.” Vicaire says, “ Ouvrage des plus rares et dont les planches sont excessivement curieuses.” The date is about 1600. (б) De cierlycke voorsnydinge aller tapel-gerechten. Amsterdam, 1664.- This is an oblong of 96 pages with an engraved frontis- piece and 32 plates. A to F in eights. Vicaire, 870. % (c) L’art de trancher la viande, & toutes sortes de fruits, nouvellement, a la frangoise. Par Pierre Petit Ecuyer tranchant. The curious thing about this book is that the title and plates are engraved while the text is in MS. According to Vicaire (677) it was probably written in the reign of Louis XIII. Vicaire gives 35 as the number of plates.log My copy has all of his and 16 others, viz., (i) La piece de boiily, (2) La tete de veau, (3) L’epaule du mouton, (4) L’aloyau, (5, 6) Le pigeon, (7) La moviette, (8) Le bequesigue, (9) L’ortolan, (10) Le merle, (11) Le pluvier dore, (12) La tourterelle, (13) La caille, (14) L’outarde, (15) La mocelle, (16) Le canard domestique. Old MS. cookery books are fairly common. I have only two, one bought because it was in the same lot as two rare printed books, the other on its merits. I have not read the first, but in turning over the pages I came across a receipt called “ A poetical pudding,” which begins : “ Of oats decorticated take two pound, And of new milk enough the same to drown.” There are a few medical receipts, one to cure the bite of a mad dog. “ This Receipt was taken out of Calthrop Church in Lincolnshire, where many in the Town were bitten by a mad Dog, and all that took the Medicine recover’d, but the rest dy’d Mad. The same Receipt is hung up in Bradford Church in Wilts, where its Efficacy hath been approv’d on the like occasion.” The entries seem to range from 1650 to 1700. The second is a vegetarian cookery book, founded largely on Tryon’s books, which have already been noted. It is beauti- fully written, and has an index. The first part is a series of extracts from famous men, such as Sir Matthew Hale and Abraham Cowley, who have written on kindness to animals or on the wickedness of killing them for food. The second part gives receipts for preparing dishes of food, “which do as far exceed those made of Flesh & Fish, as the Light doth Darkness or the Day the Night.”APPENDIX B. FOUNTAINS ABBEY. Fountains Abbey, by W. H. St. John Hope, M.A. Far and away the best book. It can be obtained from the Secretary of the Yorkshire Archaeological Society. Monograph on Fountains Abbey, by J. Arthur Reeve, 1892. Exact copies of nearly every wall in the Abbey. It can be obtained from the author. Fountains Abbey, by George Hodges, D.-D. John Murray, 1904. Memorials of the Abbey of St. Marji of Fountains, collected by John Richard Walbran, F.S.A. Surtees Society, Vols. 42 and 67. A Guide to Ripon, etc., by J. R. Walbran, 6th edition, 1856: On the excavations now in progress at Fountains Abbey, by J. R. Walbran, 1854. A transcript and translation of some of the documents and charters of Fountains Abbey in the Studley-Royal Collection of the Right Honourable the Earl de Grey and Ripon. Cartularium Abbatise de Fontanis. Ex Rotulo Orig. in per- gamen. penes W. D. Bruce, Arm. de Ripon in Com. Ebor., A.D. 1841. Annals of a Yorkshire Abbey, by William Grainge. Delineations, graphical and descriptive, of Fountains Abbey, in the West Riding of the County of York. By J. and H. S. StOrer. With historical notices. (1820.) noIll Eight views of Fountains Abbey, Etched on copperplate, from original drawings, by J. Metcalf and J. W. Carmichael : with a historical and architectural description, by T. Sopwith (1832). Six etchings by G. Cuitt, 1822. Six views of Fountains Abbey, drawn from nature and on stone by F. Nicholson. Westall’s Views of Fountains Abbey and Studley Park. (8.) Four views painted and engraved by A. Walker. (1) Banqueting house and round temple. (2) Moon pond and the temple of piety. (3) The lake and gardens; (4) The reservoir and artificial mount. I have also a set of these coloured. Fountains Abbey from the South-east, painted by Tho. Smith, and engraved by F. Vivares (1769). I have this also coloured. Ruins of Fountains Abbey (in colours), published by J. Deeley (1811). Four oval views published by W. H. Wood (1792). (1) North-west view. (2) North-east view. (3) East view. (4) West view. Five views, painted by R. Dunning, and engraved by R. and D. Havell (1813). (1) Fountains Hall and Abbey. (2) Refectory. (3) Mill Bridge. (4) East view of Abbey. (5) South-west view. These are both plain and coloured. I have not a complete set of either.112 Fountains Abbey, drawn and etched by J. Buckler and en- graved by R. Reeve (1809). I have tills also in colours. Two views, drawn by R. Dunning and engraved by R. Havell and Son (1819). (1) Fountains Abbey: (2) South-west view. View of an old Bridge near Fountains Abby. Pubd. Jany. 1, 1794? by S; W.- Fores, No 3, Piccadilly, where may be had all Rowlandson’s works. In B M. I have not been able to find a copy. Principal patterns of the Roman floors at Fountain Abbey, near Rippon, Yorksh: Wm. Fowler Winterton, del. et fecit. Publish’d Feby. 1st, 1800, by Wm. Fowler Winterton. In B. M. I have not been able to find a copy. Four views published by the Society of Antiquaries. The monastery of Fountaynes. David King, del. et sculp. Fountains Abbey. Drawn by T. Hearne from a sketch by J. Farrington, engraved by W. Byrne and T. Medland, 1782. This is I think from a book. With the exception of the last named all are separate publica- tions. I have not mentioned any books which merely in- cluded Fountains Abbey as part of their subject or any prints which were not published separately. One or two prints might, however, be mentioned as they are often seen in shops, torn from the books in which they were originally published. (1) “ The yew trees at Fountains Abbey,” from Strutt’s Sylva Britannica.(2) Plates and a plan from H. Boswell’s Historical descrip- tions of new and elegant picturesque views of the anti- quities of England and Wales. The same plates are to be found, I believe, in G. A. Walpole’s New British Traveller. They are engraved by Eastgate.APPENDIX C. MARCUS AURELIUS AND EPICTETUS. (I) English translations of Marcus Aurelius. Meric Casaubon, 1634. 1635 (2). 1663 (3). 1673 (4)- • i 1692 (5). 1694. 1702. Hazlitt says there were two editions of 1634, but his collation and description of one of them are those of the second edition of 1635. Jeremy Collier, 1701. 1708 (2). 1726 (3). Foulis Press, 1742. 1749 (2). 1752 (3). 1764 (4). James Moor translated the first two books. Francis Hutcheson the rest. James Thomson, 1747. 1755 (2). 1766 (Glasgow). R. Graves, 1792 (Bath). 1811 (Birmingham). 1826 (Halifax). N. Swaine, No Date (Stourport). This is an abridged version. R. Graves is quoted as “ One of our ablest translators.” I have seen no other copy than my own.H5 Henry M’Cormac, 1844. George Long, 1862. Hastings Crossley (Book IV), 1882. Gerald H. Rendall, 1898. George W. Chrystal, 1902. John Jackson, 1906. Benjamin E. Smith (abridged), 1906. An old monarch in new dress (rearranged and abridged). (II) English translations of Epictetus. Elizabeth Carter, 1758. 4to. 1759. Dublin, 8vo. 1768 (3). 2 vols., i2mo. 1807 (4). 2 vols., 8vo.- Thomas Wentworth Higginson, 1865 and 1897. (Based on Carter.) George Long, 1877. T. W. Rolleston (selections), 1888. Benjamin E. Smith (selections), 1904. Hastings Crossley (selections), 1905. Of the Enchiridion only. James Sandford, 1567. (B. M. Bod. C.) Jo. Healey. 1610. (B. M. A. W. 0.) 1616. (B. M. Bod. C.) 1636. (Bod.)n6 John Davies, 1670. (B. M. Bod.) George Stanhope, 1694. 1700 (2). 1704 (3). 1721 (4). I74i (5). 1750. Ellis Walker (poetical version), 1692. 1695. 1697. 1702. 1708. 1716. 1724. 1737- 1764. The Porch and Academy opened, by J W (poetical version), 1707. (B. M;) Human wisdom displayed (“ 24 morals ”),• 1731. (B. M.) William Bond, 17361 (A. W. 0.) I have seen no other copy than my own, which is “ The second edition corrected.” Portsea, 1805: (B. M.) Henry McCormac^ 1844. Hon. T. Talbot (poetical version), 1881. T: W. H. Rolleston, 1881.W. C. HRMMONS, CENTRAL PRINTING WORKS, BRISTOL.* *fRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: 3 35? Microfilm No: Date Particulars No* Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification r ** (S3 Ci l £&. Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarksf.,-, ,'V-V. -r <• i-v 9 ....'*?jm'■>'-••-•• Jtfc*.'-..-.a-' v* 1 •_-v v< ■ ■ -r. K '•£ I . , • r J, V;- .*1 \. Mfv " IL, — ' j. -*> • > * - '■ .' -r^'- • - . wr>v -; daW-^rj ! / y -vr • Tr ■ : :