ANIMAL MATTER IN DIFFERENT BONES. 403 In comparing the results in this last Table, it appears, how very variable is the proportion of cal- careous matter in diseased bone; and what very little agreement there is between the quality of hardness and of softness of bone, and the propor- tions of calcareous and animal matter; further con- firming the conjecture that more seems to depend, in relation to these qualities, on arrangement of the ingredients than on their respective proportions. Undue softness, it would appear, may co-exist either with animal matter in excess, which is the most common occurrence; or in about the average quantity, or even in deficiency, which is far more rare. Perhaps more extended research may lead to clearer general views of the connexion of the pro- which was performed above the knee. The wound rapidly healed, excepting close to the ligatures; on the 21st October, nearly nine weeks after the removal of the limb, one ligature was still attached. The most remarkable appearances, which presented on examining the limb on its arrival at Fort Pitt, were the softened spongy state of the bones abounding in oil, (the tarsal and what remained of the metatarsal bones, actually floated when thrown into water) a con- version of the muscles more or less into fatty matter; a condensed state of cellular tissue, with much accumulation of fat, and a hyper- trophied state of the cutis and cuticle. In Ceylon many years ago, I had an opportunity of making a post-mortem examination of a native who died in the Leper-Hospital, of elephas, complicated with elephantiasis, (that is, the enlarged leg with the tubercular disease of the skin) and the appearances of the affected limb were closely similar to the preceding. An account of the dissection is to be found in the last chapter of my work on the Interior of Ceylon. In this instance, the disease extended to the thigh: a large quantity of oil was found in the capsule of the knee-joint in the place of synovia. The bones were not examined. D D 2