AM) OTHER ANIMALS. 193 7.— Of the Temperature of Insects. Scarahceus pilularius.—At Kandy, on the 30th of June, air 76°, the temperature of a beetle of this kind was 77°. Glow-worm.—At Kandy, on the same day, in the morning, air 73°, the temperature of a large species of glowworm was 74°.* Blatta Orientalis.—At Kandy, on the 28th of the same month, air 83°, the temperature of two * The light of the glowworm does not appear to be combined with heat; and the same remark applies to the light of the fire-fly, and, I believe, of other luminous animals. On the luminous matter of the fire-fly, I made many experiments in 1816, at Colombo. I may mention here a few of the results. It is viscid, neither acid nor alkaline, has a strong and peculiar odour; affords no ammonia when decomposed by heat; it yields a brown empyreumatic oil. It continues to shine after it has been detached from the animal; in one instance, it shone after fourteen hours. The separation of the luminous part does not immediately prove fatal to the fly; I have known one live twelve, and even eighteen hours after. The luminous matter appears to be a secretion independent of the influence of external light: I kept the flies in darkness many days, supplying them with food, and they continued to shine. The life of the animal is more easily extin- guished than its luminous property; thus, when plunged into carbonic acid, the luminous matter continued shining, after the animal was motionless; but its duration was short: the same was observed in hydrogen gas. The luminous matter detached, shines for a brief time in water, and even in water deprived of air by long boiling, in alcohol, in aqua ammoniae, nitric acid, nitrous acid vapour, ammoniacal vapour, in carbonic acid, and in hydrogen. In the nitric acid, and the aqua ammoniee, and their vapours, and in alcohol, the brightness of the light was increased on immersion; but it was of only of a few seconds’ duration. In carbonic acid and hydrogen, it shone longer isolated than when forming a part of the insect. Sixteen fire-flies, confined VOL. I. O