no THE ACRID FLUID SECRETED As the fluid contains a substance which is very inflammable, and as it may be considered excremen- titious, though the blood is very slightly impregnated with it, it may serve to separate a portion of carbon from the blood, and thus in its function be auxiliary ture and composition; in every instance admirably adapted to the peculiar habits of the species. How great is the contrast between the soft mucous covering of aquatic active frogs, and the firm, hard, envenomed covering of the sluggish land-toads; or of the former, and the tortoise; or of the different species of lizards, compared one with another, in relation to their skin, in connexion with their habits, and defensive wants against their enemies. A careful chemical examination of the integuments of reptiles, I have no doubt, would amply repay and bring to light many curious and interesting facts. My own labours in this field have hitherto been very limited and partial. Besides the skin of the toad, I have only examined that of two other reptiles, viz. the python and Indian alligator. The first dry, I found to consist of 96‘7 animal matter. 3*3 earthy matter. 100-0 The earthy matter consisted of phosphate of lime and silica, the latter in large proportion, coloured reddish by peroxide of iron. The second dry (a single plate from the back which weighed 88-2 grs. was the subject of experiment, and it was further dried at a tempera- ture of about 212, previous to examination,) was found to contain 5-7 water (hygrometric) 33-6 earthy matter 60'7 animal matter. Subjected to a strong heat in an open crucible, the animal part consumed with flame, and afforded a residue retaining the form of the plate, differing from the original only in being somewhat shrunk. This bony plate consisted principally of phosphate of lime, besides which it contained a little carbonate of lime and silica. On the inner surface of the plate, there were minute concretions of quartz, the largest about the size of a small pin’s head, semi-transparent, but not distinctly crystalline. Their hardness, and not being acted on