50 EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS 4.— Of the other Electrical Animals compared with the Torpedo. The number of animals of this description hitherto discovered and well authenticated is very small; in brief, the Gymnotus Electricus and the Silurus Electricus, besides the Torpedo, are the only ones, the existence of which is certain and free from all doubt and to these I shall confine the few remarks * In the list of electrical fishes, two others are commonly intro- duced—the so named Tetraodon Electricus and Trichiurus Electri- cus ; but neither on good authority. The information on which the existence of the first has been received, is most scanty and imperfect. The narrative has a good deal the manner of fiction. It is contained in the Philosophical Transactions for 1786, in a letter from Lieut. William Paterson, of the 98th Regiment, to Sir Joseph Banks, ac- companied with a drawing. The writer states, that when accom- panying his regiment to India, in the Island of Johanna, where they touched, he met with a new species of electrical fish, of the genus Tetraodon, as he supposes, in cavities on the shore in the coral rock, and that in handling one he received a shock. He says, he saw several of them, and that the water in which they were was about 55 or 60*^ of Fahrenheit, although the island is within the tropics, (seawater of 55° or 60° in lat. 12° 13' south !) The reality of the other fish, Trichiurus Electricus, is more than doubtful, although so called by Lac4pMe and by Shaw. The author of the “Supplement on the first order of Fish,” to the English Translation of Cuvier’s “Regne Animal,” remarks, “ that the charac- ters and properties announced with so much assurance, rest only on a bad figure given by Nieuhoff, and a transposition of a part of the text, which has no reference to the figure, nor to any trichiurus.” Vol. X. p. 348. How true is the remark, in natural as well as in civil history, that “men love to complete what is imperfect, and to realize what is imaginary!”