374 ON THE APPLICATION OF SULPHUROUS served ; others liave undergone change, and have become spoilt. The uncertainty of preservative effect is sufficient ground for caution. I believe, too, that this acid is not inapplicable to the service of the botanist, for preserving entire plants and their parts, especially the smaller and more delicate. I have a bottle now before me in which many kinds of vegetables are immersed, and have been kept several months, and their forms are as distinct as ever, and in excellent preservation ; and amongst them I see the flower of the olive and the orange trees, and many more equally delicate.* * The eflect of the sulphurous acid on the colour of vegetables, and I may add of animal substances, is much less than might be exjiected. Some vegetable colours it does not change, others but slightly, and very few entirely; and even the last-mentioned return, though not with their original intensity, when the sulphurous acid is converted by the absorption of oxygen gas into the sulphuric. The red rose, bleached white by the fumes of burning sulphur, on exposure to the air, again becomes red. Of animal textures, those which are white, it renders delicately so; those which are yellow, as the gall-bladder, and common gall-duct stained by bile, the liver of this colour owing to disease, and parts of the supra-renal gland, it does not alter. It has very little effect in altering the healthy colour of the lungs or liver; but, where there is blood either effused in the parts, or con- tained in its vessels, the acid changes its colour to dark-brown, and, by coagulating it, fixes it for a time ; and thus it is well adapted to detect the effusion of this fluid, in parts where it is apt to escape ob- servation, as in the substance of the spleen, liver, &c. It is often difficult to distinguish between the redness produced by inflamma- tion, and that which is occasioned after death by the staining power of the blood. I believe (and not hypothetically) that the sulphurous acid affords a means of distinction. If the change should have taken place after death, the part stained will be rendered brown by the acid, and in other respects appear sound ; but if, during life, owing to in-