OF THE GENUS THYNNUS. •225 tion between the ganglia and the branchial nerves, and the generation of heat in these fishes is uncer- tain, and must necessarily remain so, as long as there is any doubt concerning the use of ganglia. The absence of ganglia on the principal nerves of the lungs of man,* and I believe of the mammalia respiratory nerves generally, as far as my observations have extended, is so small as to be truly astonishing, compared with their very high temperature. And, on the hypothesis of nervous influence being essential to the production of animal heat through the agency of respiration, the necessary inference seems to be, that birds re- quire less of this influence, than any other description of warm- blooded animals; which may be owing, perhaps, to their peculiarities of structure, both in relation to the diffused aerial means they possess of generating heat, and their peculiar means, in their covering of feathers, of preserving it; and, owing probably further, to their less expenditure of it, from the peculiarities of some of their principal secretions, espe- cially those of the kidneys, skin, and lungs; their kidneys secreting an almost solid urine, their skin exhaling little moisture, and that not in sweat, but entirely by insensible perspiration, and their lungs though exhaling more, from the nature of the function they perform, yet less than might at first be supposed, part of the aqueous vapour contained in the air expired being, I believe, condensed before it enters the atmosphere, by the trachea, mouth and beak, which are always comparatively cool. And in accordance with this view, from the experiments of Messrs. Allen and Pepys, it appears, at least in one instance,—that the pigeon, one of the warmest of birds, consumes in relation to its bulk, even less oxygen, or produces less carbonic acid, than a quadruped, the guinea-pig, the temperature of which is several degrees lower. * Haller, speaking of the great sympathetic nerve, which in man is so amply provided with ganglia, says, “ In pectore notabiles ramos paucos edit, neque memini me alicujus momenti truncos vidisse qui ad nervum octaviparis accederunt, etsi ejusmodi nervi illus- tribus viris visi sunt.” Element. Phys. iv. p. 260. And, according to Sir Charles Bell’s views of the nervous system, none of the res- piratory nerves are ganglionic nerves. Sir Edward Home (Phil, VOL. r. Q