75 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 Portion of Colon, the mucous membrane of which is thrown into irregular massy folds. From the same individual as No. 5 in Diseases of the Stomach. Portion of Colon exhibiting a general thickening of the mucous membrane, with warty excrescences, and numerous small ulcers upon its internal surface. From the same individual as the Portion of Jejunum, No. 15. Case of Fungus Heematodes, described by Mr. Langstaff. Medico-Chiruryical Transactions, vol. iii. p. 277. Portion of Colon exhibiting a general thickening of the'intestine, with fungous growths from the mucous membrane. Enlargement of the Mucous Glands in the Ccecum, in the neighbourhood of the valve. From the same individual as the portion of Small Intestine, No. 16. Hcemorrhoids, which consist of folds of the mucous membrane of the rectum. Fungus growing from the Mucous coat of the Ccecum, with ulceration extending from the Coecum through the abdominal muscles, forming an artificial anus in the groin. Portion of Colon generally thickened, with ulceration of its mucous membrane at many distinct points. Appendix Coeci, in which a green-gage stone is lodged. Portion of Rectum, the cavity of which, at its upper part, is contracted, without any visible change of structure. Portion of Rectum, exhibiting a contraction of its cavity, with thickening of its coats to the extent of two inches from the anus. Above the contraction, the intestine is dilated, and below it, is a ragged ulceration of the mucous membrane, which completely penetrates the intestine at one point. The divided coats exhibit white bands intersecting a hard gristly substance. Rectum, exhibiting a contraction of its cavity which, commencing two inches above the anus, is continued four or five inches up the gut. The coats of the intestine are generally thickened, and the divided edges exhibit white bands intersecting a gristly substance. The mucous membrane is universally thickened and tuberculated. Around the intestine, the cellular tissue has undergone the same change of structure, and has involved the uterus and vagina in its disease. l 2