100 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 IT 18 19 20 21 Tunica Vaginalis enlarged and thickened, in consequence of suppuration in its cavity. Its internal surface is granulated and very vascular. The testicle is enlarged and indurated. Hydrocele in the Spermatic Cord. There is one large membranous cyst immediately above the testicle. The tunica vaginalis was adherent throughout to the tunica albuginea, from which it has been partly separated. The testicle is healthy. A large cyst in the Spermatic Cord, which contained blood. The tunica vaginalis has been in part removed; it was adherent throughout to the tunica albuginea. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a soft medullary substance. The tunica vaginalis is adherent throughout to the tunica albuginea. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a soft medullary substance. The tunica vaginalis is partially adherent to the tunica albuginea. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a soft medullary substance. The tunica vaginalis is partially adherent to the tunica albuginea. Section of a Testicle enlarged and converted into a soft medullary substance. The tunica vaginalis is partially adherent to the tunica albuginea. A fungus arising from the testicle has protruded through an ulcerated opening in its coverings and in the scrotum. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a firm fleshy substance. The tunica vaginalis is generally adherent to the tunica albuginea. Injection displays the vascularity of the morbid structure only in some situations. Section of a Testicle enlarged and converted into a fleshy substance, intermixed with portions of cartilage. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a firm fleshy substance. The tunica vaginalis is partially adherent to the tunica albuginea. Injection displays the partial vascularity of the morbid structure. Two Testicles, (probably from the same individual,) enlarged and converted into a fleshy substance, with small cells dispersed through it. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a fleshy substance, in which there are irregular cavities. Injection displays the partial vascularity of the morbid structure. Testicle, with a portion of the Scrotum. The testicle and a fungus which has arisen from it are protruded through an ulcerated aperture in the scrotum. What remains of the natural structure of the testicle is imbedded in the fungus at its back part.