101 22 23 24 i 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Testicle, exhibiting a deposition of scrofulous substance in the centre of the gland. The other testicle of the individual was in a similar state. Hydrocele, with thickening of the Tunica Vaginalis, and the growth of fleshy excrescences from its internal surface. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a fleshy substance, in which there are irregular cavities. Testicle, much diminished in size, in consequence of the pressure of a hydrocele on the opposite side. Testicle much diminished in size. From an old subject. Testicle, with a portion of the Scrotum. The testicle is protruded through an ulcerated aperture in the scrotum. A section has been made of the protruded testicle to shew that its glandular substance is but little altered. Hydrocele in the Spermatic Cord. There are three cysts which do not communicate. Two of these are situated above the testicle, and the third behind it. The Glandular substance of a Testicle, which was protruded through an ulcerated aperture-in the scrotum. Testicle, with the Inguinal Absorbent Glands. The testicle is enlarged and converted into a medullary substance. The absorbent glands have undergone the same change of structure. Section of a Testicle, enlarged and converted into a soft medullary substance. The deposition of medullary substance is continued into the spermatic cord. The tunica vaginalis is generally adherent to the tunica albuginea. Testicle, enlarged and converted into a firm white substance. The same kind of substance is deposited in the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord. The tunica vaginalis is generally adherent to the tunica albuginea. Testicle, exhibiting depositions of scrofulous substance in the epididymis. The vas deferens is obliterated. Testicle, enlarged and indurated, with small abscesses in its glandular substance. Testicle, with a portion of the Scrotum. The testicle is enlarged and indurated, and its glandular substance is protruded through an ulcerated aperture in the scrotum.