8 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 Section of a Femur exhibiting a diseased state of the Medulla. An irregular deposition of bony matter has taken place upon the external surface of the bone. In some, situations this deposition is connected only with the periosteum; in others, it appears to arise from the bone itself. The two preceding specimens were taken from the same limb. Section of a Tibia, exhibiting great increase of thickness in its walls. The periosteum is detached for the purpose of shewing its thickened state upon the diseased part of the bone. Portion of the Skull-Cap of a Child, which is very much thickened, and so soft in its texture as to be easily divisible by a knife. The bone exhibits throughout an appearance of great vascularity. This state of the bone existed from birth. Presented by William Kingdon, esq. Section of Dorsal and Lumbar Vertebrae, exhibiting absorption of their bodies, which was consequent on an aneurism of the aorta. The surface of bone in progress of destruction formed part of the aneurismal sac. It will be observed, that the fibro-cartilages are entire. Bones of the Elbow-Joint, exhibiting Ulceration with Enlargement of the articular ends. Sections have been made of the humerus and ulna, to shew the extent of the enlargement, which is greatest in the latter bone. The enlargement of the bones does not depend upon an addition of new matter to their exterior. Necrosis of the Shaft of a Tibia, in which the process of reparation is nearly completed. A small portion of the dead bone still remains. The new bone exhibits a remarkably porous texture. Necrosis of the Shaft of a Tibia. Portions of the dead bone still remain. Many fistulous holes are seen in the new bone, leading to the cavity in which the dead bone is contained. Tibia, exhibiting an extensive Ulceration of its walls. There is no appearance of reparation. Section of the upper end of a Fibula, and of a Tumor, which is connected with it. The tumor consists of a mixture of bone and soft substance; and it seems to have arisen from the periosteum. Sections of a Fibula exhibiting upon its external surface depositions of fine bony fibres. Around these depositions, the walls of the bone are ulcerated. The medullary cavity is in part obliterated. Sections of the Bones of the Face, exhibiting an Osseous Growth, completely filling the