92 12 13 14 15 16 IT 18 19 20 21 A large Tumor of a soft medullary texture, attached to the upper and back part of the pharynx. The tumor entirely fills the pharynx, and is closely united to it on each side; it projects forwards into the mouth below the soft palate, and backwards through the pharynx to the spine, and a portion of it passes downwards behind the oesophagus. Polypi removed from the Nose. They are soft, and most of them were attached to the pituitary membrane by a narrow pedicle. ■ Section of a Tumor formed in the face. The greater part of the diseased growth occupies the situation of the bones of the upper jaw, which are completely absorbed. Above, the tumor has extended through the basis of the skull into its cavity, where it forms a considerably projecting mass, occupying the situation of the anterior lobes of the brain. Below, the tumor is united to the soft palate. In front, it distends the left nostril, and has caused the ulceration of a part of the integuments of the face. The divided surface of the tumor exhibits partly a cartilaginous and partly a soft fungous structure; its external surface, projecting below the nostril, exhibits a sloughing appearance. The other half of the section of the preceding Tumor. The diseased structure is here seen to have extended itself into the cavity of the right orbit. The optic nerve is elongated, and displaced from its natural situation; it lies close to the outer side of the orbit. Deposition of Lymph upon the mucous membrane of the pharynx and oesophagus. Extensive and ragged Ulceration in the mucous membrane of the pharynx and upper part of the oesophagus. At one point the ulceration has penetrated through the sides of the oesophagus and trachea into the cavity of the latter. A bristle is passed into the aperture of communication between the trachea and oesophagus. Extensive destruction, apparently by sloughing, of the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Upon the epiglottis and around it, the mucous membrane is ulcerated. These morbid changes were considered to have been occasioned by mercury. A Tumor of a soft medullary texture, filling the antrum and nostrils, and protruding externally upon the cheek in the form of a fungus, sloughing on its surface. Polypi which were removed from the nose. They were of a gelatinous but firm consistence. With one of the polypi, a considerable portion of the inferior spongy bone is connected. Polypi of a gelatinous consistence, attached to the body of the sphenoid bone, and thence extending downwards into the back part of the nose.