11 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 Section of the lower part of a Femur, the cancelli of which are filled by morbid growth, con- sisting of medullary matter. The walls of the bone and the cartilage are sound, except in one | situation where they are absorbed. Tumors have formed around the bone. Sections of some I of these shew that they consist of the same kind of matter as is deposited in the interior of I the bone. Section of a Molar Tooth, and of a Bony Tumor which has apparently grown from the base of the crown and from the fang. Portions of a Humerus with which a tumor is connected, which apparently originated in the bone. Great part of the body of the humerus has been absorbed. The tumor connecting the remaining portions of the bone consists of soft substance, in the centre of which is a large cavity, which contained a gelatinous fluid. The brachial artery and nerves are attached to the exterior of the tumor, but they are healthy. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula which have suffered a compound fracture; the fractured ends of both bones have overlapped, and exfoliation of the ends of the tibia has commenced. There is a superficial groove between the dead and the living bone, with an irregular deposition of osseous matter upon the contiguous surface of the tibia. The Lower Half of a Tibia which has suffered a compound fracture. The fractured ends have been left at some distance from each other, and have become united by two portions of bone' extending transversely between them. At the bottom of the bottle, there is a piece of bone which exfoliated from the upper end of the fracture. Section of a Tibia shewing the process of restoration after a compound fracture. The union of the fractured ends of the bone is effected by an irregular and very abundant deposition of osseous matter. For a considerable space above and below the place of union, the medullary cavity is obliterated. The surrounding cellular tissue, much thickened, was firmly adherent to the external surface of the bone above and below the place of union. A portion of this thickened cellular tissue has been detached and turned downwards. Portion of a Fibula which has been fractured. The fractured ends not being in apposition, and overlapping each other, union has taken place laterally by bony matter deposited from the periosteum. This specimen was taken from the same individual as No. 89. Portion of a Tibia exhibiting a fracture in progress of union. The fractured ends overlapping a little, are joined together by bony matter. In one half of the bone, and towards its lower end, there has been another fracture which has firmly united. Section of a Humerus, in which there has been a fracture, which has united with the ends of c 2 92