6 2 23 Femoral Artery upon which a ligature was placed a considerable time before death. The extremities of the artery above and below the obliterated part are formed into conical sacs. The upper and lower portions of the vessel are connected by condensed cellular tissue. For some way above and below the obliterated part, the coats of the artery are thickened by the deposition of lymph between them. 24 Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. There appears to have been a complete rupture of the artery in its whole circumference, so that the sac is formed entirely by the surrounding cellular tissue. Above and below the aneurism, the artery appears to be healthy. The sac is almost filled by laminated coagulum. The popliteal vein is pervious, but flattened by the pressure of the sac. 25 Aneurism arising from the termination of the Arch of the Aorta, which has burst into the left bronchus. The aorta is generally thickened and dilated. There is, besides, a small pouch continued from the artery to the bronchus, into which it has burst. 26 Aneurism arising from the Femoral Artery at its commencement, for the cure of which the external Iliac has been tied. The sac is in gi’eat part filled by laminated coagulum. Upon its lower part a portion of skin is left, with the aperture through which the aneurism burst externally. The ligature was applied about an inch and a quarter above the sac, and it has completely divided the internal coats of the artery. Between the situation of the ligature and the sac, there is a small deposition of lymph. Between the situation of the ligature, and the division of the common iliac, the artery is completely plugged with lymph. The coats of the artery are apparently healthy. The femoral artery, as it passes out of the lower part of the sac, is impervious. The profunda passes out of the middle of the sac, and is pervious. The femoral vein is open above and below the sac, and is obliterated by the pressure of the sac in the mid-space. The anterior crural nerve is connected with the sac, and is flattened by its pressure. 27 Aneurism of the Femoral Artery at its commencement, for the cure of which the external Iliac has been tied. The ligature was applied about half an inch below the origin of the internal iliac. The upper end of the artery is closed by a small portion of lymph; its lower end is closed by a clot which extends some way within the vessel- Between these clots, is a substance connecting the extremities of the artery, which appeared in the recent state to consist of the remains of the sheath of that part of the artery which had been encircled by the ligature. From the clot below the situation of the ligature, to within a short distance of the sac, the artery is pervious. From this pervious part of the artery, the epigastric and circumflex branches arise. Within the extremity of the artery which is connected with the sac, is a small conical clot completely filling the vessel. The coats of the artery appeared healthy throughout. The external iliac vein is pervious to within an inch of the sac, where it is obliterated.