28 G. 26 Knee-Joint, exhibiting ulceration of the articular surfaces of the Femur and Tibia. g. 27 Knee-Joint, exhibiting anchylosis of the inner condyle of the femur to the articular surface of the tibia. The bones contain much less than their usual proportion of earthy matter. g. 28 g. 29 g. 30 g. 31 g. 32 g. 33 g. 34 g. 35 g. 36 g. 37 g. 38 g. 39 g. 40 Knee-Joint, from a young subject, exhibiting ulceration of the cancellous texture of the femur extending through the epiphysis to the articular surface. Knee-Joint, exhibiting a spongy state of the bones with partial ulceration of them. What remains of the patella is anchylosed to the femur, and the condyles of the femur are anchylosed to the head of the tibia. The lower end of a Femur exhibiting ulceration of the cancellous texture, just above the con- dyles, with thickening of the surrounding bone. Knee-Joint, exhibiting deep ulceration of the articular surfaces of the femur and head of the tibia. The bones contain less than their usual proportion of earthy matter. Elbow-Joint, in which there is anchylosis of the articular surfaces, with considerable osseous deposition upon the surrounding bone. Sections of an Elbow-Joint in which there is anchylosis of the humerus to the ulna, with com- plete destruction of the articular surfaces. Shoulder-Joint, in which the glenoid cavity and head of the humerus have been entirely re- moved by ulceration. Two Shoulder-Joints from the same individual. In each joint there has been ulceration of the articular surfaces of the head of the humerus and glenoid cavity. The surfaces of the humerus and scapula, which have been in contact, have acquired an ivory-like texture. Bones of a Finger. There is anchylosis of the bones of the first and second phalanx. Carpus, in which there is complete anchylosis of the several articular surfaces. Bones of the Great Toe exhibiting ulceration of their articular surfaces, with surrounding de- positions of osseous matter. Carpus, with two of the Metacarpal Bones. There is anchylosis of the metacarpal bones with the carpus, and of the several carpal bones with each other. Portions of the Radius and Ulna. There has been ulceration of their contiguous sides, just above their lower ends. The ulcerated surfaces have become adapted to each other so as to form a new joint, permitting the free movement of the radius upon the ulna.