121 6 Tumor of a firm fleshy structure, which formed in the cellular tissue, between the lower parts of the oesophagus and trachea. Ulceration of the oesophagus has taken place in one situation, apparently from the pressure of the tumor. 7 Tumor which projected from the mouth of a child at birth. It grew from the palate, from which it was separated by incision. The child recovered. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 8 Portion of a Femur, exhibiting the growth of a tumor between the muscles upon its posterior surface. 9 Sections of the Tumor described in No. 8, shewing it to consist of a cartilaginous substance intermixed with specks of bone. 10 Encysted Tumors which formed beneath the scalp. 11 A large Mass of soft, fleshy, and very vascular Tumors, formed around the bones of the lore- arm and carpus. The bones themselves are sound. 12 Section of a large Tumor formed around the bones of the foot. It consists of a firm cartila- O ginous substance, intersected by white bands. 13 Two Cysts originating in the bursas upon the patella; of the same individual. The sides ot each cyst are thick and tendinous, and from the internal surface, fleshy processes have arisen. 14 15 Section of an immense Tumor which occupied the whole arm and shoulder. The section consists of a slice taken out of the centre of the tumor. A portion of the shaft of the humerus is destroyed; the remaining part of the bone is imbedded in the tumor. In the- lower part of the bottle is the scapula, the inferior angle of which projects through an ulcerated aperture in the skin, and is in a state of necrosis. The tumor itself is formed in part of a cartilaginous substance, and in part of a loose fibrous matter, intermixed with blood. In the cartilaginous part of the tumor deposits of bone have taken place. The head of the humerus is dislocated from the glenoid cavity, which is filled by the loose fibrous matter of the tumor. Cast of the limb from which this preparation was taken, No. 5. Clusters of enlarged absorbent Glands removed from the neck of a young subject. Bristles are passed beneath some of the branches of the cervical nerves which were removed with the glands. Case described by Mr. Vincent. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xii. p. 247 R