3 10 11 Tibia of a Dog, in which the shaft of the bone, in its whole length, has died. The periosteum has separated from it, and is thickened. Upon the internal surface of the separated periosteum, the formation of the new bone has commenced by irregular depositions of osseous matter. The old bone, at its extremities, still retains connexion with the periosteum, hence it has received some injection. The death of the bone was produced by the destruction of the medulla, as in No. 9. Experiment by Mr. Stanley. Tibia of a Dog, in which the shaft of the bone has died. The dead bone is in progress of separation, and the new bone is formed around it. The periosteum which belonged to the old bone covers the new bone. The death of the bone was produced by destruction of the medulla, as in No. 9. Ex- periment by Mr. Stanley. 12 Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting the process of reparation after the loss of a portion of its walls The space left by the lost bone is in part filled by new matter, deposited from the vessels of the medulla. A hole was, in this instance, drilled through the walls of the bone, and after some time, the animal being killed, the changes here described were found to have taken place. Experiment by Mr. Stanley. 13 Section of a Tibia from a Stump, exhibiting the change which has taken place in the end of the bone, consisting of the closure of the medullary cavity, by a thin layer of osseous substance. 14 Portion of a Femur from a Stump. The medullary cavity is completely closed, and there are two pointed processes of bone, which extended from the end of the femur into the sur- rounding soft parts. 15 Section of a Tumor, consisting of cartilaginous substance, with specks of bone dispersed through it. The remaining part of this tumor, consisting principally of bone, is preserved dry. E. 10. 16 Os Calcis, a portion of which has died, and is separated by exfoliation, of the os calcis to the os cuboides. There is anchylosis 17 Portion of the Lower Jaw of a Child, which separated by exfoliation. It contains two teeth of the temporary set, and the rudiments of three of the permanent set. 18 Portion of a Tibia, exhibiting a superficial exfoliation of its walls. The formation of the groove between the dead and the living bone lias commenced; and there is a deposition of new bone from the periosteum around the dead bone. b 2