6 35 Sections of the Femur and Tibia of a rickety Child. The bones, which have become curved from a want of their natural hardness, have recovered their solidity, the curvature still re- maining. In the Femur, the walls of the bone in the centre, and along the interior curve, have acquired a greater thickness than elsewhere. In the Tibia, the bone is rendered perfect- ly solid in the situation of the curve; and it is observable, that in the same situation, the bone is flattened from side to side. The two preceding specimens are described by Mr. Stanley. Medico-Chirurgiccd Transactions, vol. vii. p. 404. 36 Portions of a Skull thickened and converted into a substance like hardened mortar. 37 Sections of the lower end of a Tibia and Fibula. The walls of the bones have become soft, the natural structure of the cancelli is changed by the entire removal of the earthy matter, and the deposition in its stead, of a soft caseous substance. These are the changes in bone peculiar to Scrofula. 38 Sections of the articular ends of a Femur and Tibia, exhibiting; the same changes of structure as No. 37. 39 Section of the Head, Neck, and upper part of the Shaft of a Femur. From a young subject. The cancellous structure is filled throughout by a soft caseous substance, similar to that which exists in the two preceding specimens. The cartilage covering the head of the bone is sound. 40 Bones of the Wrist, exhibiting the effects of Ulceration. In the ends of the radius and ulna the ulceration seems to have commenced in the interior of the bone. 41 Section of a Tibia, and of a Tumor which has formed around it. That half of the tumor, the vessels of which have freely received the injection, is of a soft and fleshy texture. The other half, into which the injection has not so freely penetrated, consists of a mixture of cartilaginous and of osseous matter. The morbid growth is very closely connected with the periosteum in the whole circumference of the tibia. The internal part of the tibia is sound. Presented by William Brewer, esq. 42 Section of a Tibia, exhibiting a growth of soft vascular fungus from the Periosteum. The peri- osteum, for some distance above and below the seat of the fungus, has become of a soft and spongy texture, and its connexion with the bone is loosened. The bone itself is healthy, except that there had been an irregular absorption of its external surface, which is distinctly seen in the two smaller portions of the tibia and fibula. 43 Bones of the Knee-Joint, exhibiting a peculiar alteration of texture. The diseased bone is not softened; it has a yellow colour, apparently derived from a peculiar secretion into the