64 vein which is exposed, is of a dark colour, in consequence of its vessels being loaded with blood. The branches of the vein are plugged by firm coagula. 35 Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is firmly closed by a conical plug, which extends up the vessel to the origin of the first branch. The base of this plug is united to the lymph, which closes the extremity of the artery. The extremity of the vein is closed by lymph. The coats of the artery and vein are thickened, and closely united to the parts around. .36 Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is closed by the adhesion of its sides, but there is no coagulum within it. The extremity of the vein is open. Lymph is deposited upon the lining of the vein. 37 Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is open. Its cavity is filled to some distance by a coagulum, which adhered firmly to its coats. The extremity of the vein is closed, and there is a deposition of lymph upon its inner membrane. 38 Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is closed, and there is a coagulum within the vessel. The extremity of the vein is closed, and within its cavity is a conical coagulum. 39 Aneurism, arising from the Aorta at the commencement of the Arch. The sac has extended forwards through the sternum and ribs on each side, and elevating the pectoral muscles, has formed a large tumor upon the chest. A portion of skin attached to the 1 front of the tumor, indicates, by its white appearance, that the process of sloughing had commenced in its centre. The sac in its progress towards the sternum, has extended itself on each side into the lung. A portion of the sac in the right lung is laid open, and is filled by laminated coagulum. On the left side, the ragged surfaces of the sac, and the shreds of coagulum protruding through it, mark the situation in which the aneurism burst into the | chest. 40 Ossified Femoral Artery, from a Stump. In consequence of the occurrence of haemorrhage, a second ligature was placed around the artery, about two inches above its amputated ex- tremity. This ligature had separated before death. A portion of whalebone is passed into the aperture through which it was withdrawn. The cavity of the artery above and below the situation of this ligature, is filled by lymph, which is continued to a considerable distance up the vessel. 41 Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta, with obliteration of the left Subclavian Artery at its origin. The walls of the sac appear to be formed entirely by the coats of the artery, which