56 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 IT 18 19 20 21 22 Enlargement of the left Ventricle, with thickening 0f its walls. Thickening of the aortic valves and of the lining of the aorta. j Enlargement of both Ventricles, with attenuation of their walls. The walls of the right ventricle are especially diminished in thickness. Aortic Valves Ossified, and raised so as almost to close the communication between the ventricle and the aorta. A mere fissure is left between the valves. The ventricle is enlarged. Enlargement of the left Ventricle, with thickening of its walls. Very thick deposition of fat upon the right ventricle. Ossification of the coronary arteries. Left Ventricle, in which there are two portions of Lymph firmly adhering to its internal surface, near the apex. Within each portion of lymph there is a cavity which contained pus. Section of the left Ventricle. Its membranous lining is partly ulcerated, and partly thickened by osseous deposition; its muscular structure, towards the apex, has undergone extensive suppuration. Ossification of the Aortic Valves. The valves are raised, and two of them are united, so that the aorta communicated with the ventricle by a mere fissure. Ossification of the Mitral Valve and of the Aorta. Heart, exhibiting fungous growth from the aortic valves, with ulceration of them. Portions of the valves, with the septum between two of them, are destroyed. Behind one of the valves, the aorta is dilated into a pouch, and its inner membrane is here ulcerated. Rupture of the left Ventricle at its apex; a piece of quill is introduced into the aperture. Around the aperture, the' walls of the ventricle are veiy thin; and in this situation, there is a clot of blood in the cavity of the ventricle. Contraction of the left Auriculo-Ventricular opening. The left auricle is enlarged, and a coagulum is firmly attached to its sides. Aortic Valves, exhibiting a growth of Fungus from their loose borders. Aortic Valves exhibiting a growth of Fungus from their surfaces, with ulceration ol one ot them. Rupture of the left Ventricle. The opening is a mere fissure in the muscular substance. The walls of the ventricle around the opening are not thinner than in other situations. The mus- cular substance is softer than natural, and of a brown colour.