43 h. 56 h. 5? h. 58 h. 59 h. 60 h. 61 h. 62 h. 63 h. 64 Section of a Femur in which there has been fracture extending through the basis of its neck into the trochanter minor. There is firm union of the fractured surfaces. Sections of a Femur in which there has been fracture extending through the basis of its neck, O O 7 and through the trochanter major into its shaft. There is a firm union of the fractured sur- faces with the two portions of the trochanter major at some distance from each other. Case described by Mr. Stanley. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 505. Portion of a Spine in which there is fracture extending through the body of a dorsal vertebra. Portion of a Spine in which there is fracture extending through the arches of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, and through the body of the fifth. Portion of a Spine in which there is fracture extending through the body of a dorsal vertebra. Portion of a Humerus in which the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, having been separated from the glenoid cavity, has become adherent to the bone at its lesser tuberosity, close to the edge of the bicipital groove. Portion of a Humerus in which the tendon of the long head of the biceps, having been separated from the glenoid cavity, has become adherent to the bone at the edge of the bicipital groove. Pelvis, in which, separation of the sacro-iliac symphyses and of the symphysis pubis has taken place, sufficiently to permit the free movement of the bones against each other. The cavity of the pelvis is much smaller than natural. From a female aged about forty, who died in her second labour, in consecpience of a rupture of the vagina and uterus. Knee-Joint, exhibiting the consequences of fracture of the Femur. The fracture extended transversely through the shaft, immediately above the condyles. The upper end of the bone, protruded downwards behind the knee, has, in this situation, become firmly and extensively united to the condyles. There is a complete anchylosis of the patella to the femur, and of the condyles of the femur to the head of the tibia. g 2