114 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 appearance. The separation of the vagina from the uterus was by sloughing, consequent on the resting of the head of the child on the brim of the pelvis in a tedious parturition. Presented by Dr. Conquest. Uterus, exhibiting the obliteration of its cavity within the cervix. Uterus, exhibiting ulceration of its cervix and of a considerable part of the vagina. From the vagina, ulceration has extended into the bladder. The ovaries consist throughout of a very solid fleshy structure. Uterus, entirely changed from its natural form and structure; a section of the organ shews that it is converted throughout into a soft medullary substance; the os uteri presents a ragged fungous appearance. Uterus and its appendages, exhibiting the Fallopian Tubes firmly adherent at their extremities to the ovaries. A mass of small Membranous Vesicles, generally considered to be Hydatids, attached to a coagulum of blood discharged from the uterus. These vesicles are of an oval shape, and have a small process or stalk at one extremity. Uterus, enlarged by the growth of numerous tumors in its substance. One tumor, larger than the x’est, projects into the cavity of the uterus, and completely fills it; others project upon the external surface of the uterus. These tumors are of a firm fleshy structure, intersected throughout by white shining bands. The substance of the uterus between the tumors is healthy. Uterus, Vagina, and Bladder, exhibiting changes which are the consequence of parturition. A large opening exists between the upper part of the vagina and the bladder. The margins of this opening are situated close to the terminations of the ureters, through which bristles are passed. The os uteri is completely closed. A large Cyst connected with the broad ligament of the uterus. In the upper part of the preparation the connexion of the cyst with the broad ligament may be observed. There was no vestige of the ovary on this side. The cyst contained a transparent fluid, and it had no adhesions to the surrounding viscera. Portion of a large Cyst which originated in the ovary. The cyst was filled by fat and hair. The sides of the cyst are in some parts cartilaginous, in others, membranous. To the internal surface of the cyst several teeth are firmly attached. These teeth possess a covering of enamel. Mass of Hair which was found in the cyst of the ovary described No. 27.