41 h. 35 h. 36 h. 37 h. 38 h. 39 h. 40 h. 41 h. 42 h. 43 h. 44 and the head of the humerus is adapted to it. It is uncertain whether these appearances were the result of injury or disease. Portion of a Radius which lias been fractured about an inch above its lower end. The fracture has united with a considerable overlapping of the ends of the bone. Elbow-Joint. The humerus has been fractured between the condyles, and transversely, a little above them. The articular surface of the ulna is adapted to the altered form of the humerus. It is uncertain whether the ulna has been broken Elbow-Joint. The articular surfaces of the humerus and ulna are altered in form, but it is uncertain whether there has been fracture. The radius was found dislocated from the outer condyle, and lying upon the front of the ulna. Elbow-Joint. A fracture extends in two directions through the internal condyle into the elbow-joint. The two portions of the condyle separated by the fracture have not re- united. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula. The point of the malleolus interims has been separated by fracture. The fibula is broken two inches above its lower end. Os Innominatum. A fracture extends through the acetabulum, splitting it into four portions. A fracture also extends through the body and ramus of the pubes; through the ischium between its spine and tuberosity, and through the ilium to its crista. Os Innominatum. A fracture extends in two directions through the acetabulum. A portion of the acetabulum on its outer side being separated, permitted the head of the femur to pass upwards upon the dorsum of the ilium. Pelvis and portion of the Thigh Bone, from the same individual. There is a complete separation of both sacro-iliac symphyses, and of the symphysis pubis. The condyles have separated from the shaft of the femur at the line of their cartilaginous union in the young subject. From an individual aged fourteen. The result of external violence. Skull-Cap, in which fracture with depression of bone occurred many years before death. The fracture is united, and the depression still remains. Skull, in which there have been two fractures, each about an inch and a half in extent, one in the frontal, and the other in the parietal bone. They have both united. These fractures appear to have been produced by a cutting instrument. G