24 27 Portion of the Spine exhibiting a softened and crumbled state of two of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, with absorption of the intervertebral substance. There is a deposition of caseous matter around the diseased bone, which, by its accumulation, has elevated the pleura costalis to a considerable extent. 28 Portion of the Spine, exhibiting the process of cure after the formation of Curvature from disease. The bodies of four vertebrae are destroyed, and there is a firm anchylosis of the vertebrae which are immediately above and below the situation of the disease. 29 Portion of the Spine exhibiting a deficiency of the medullary secretion into the cancellous tex- ture of the bodies of the vertebrae, with ulceration commencing in their internal and posterior parts. The bones are of their natural hardness. All the other vertebrae of this spine were similarly altered. 30 Portion of the Spine exhibiting disease in the bodies of the second and third cervical vertebrae. The bone is softened, and of a yellow colour. The odontoid process, in consequence of its diseased condition, has completely separated at its base from the rest of the bone. 31 Portion of the Spine exhibiting disease in the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. The disease consists in an alteration of colour in the bone, apparently from morbid secretion into the cancelli. Between two of the vertebrae, the intervertebral substance is completely destroyed. 32 Portion of the spine, in which the bodies of two of the dorsal vertebrae are altered in structure and in progress of ulceration. A portion of the diseased bone has become separated, and is protruded forwards. The intervertebral substance between the two diseased vertebrae is completly absorbed. An abscess has formed close to the side of the spine; it has no communication with the diseased bone. 33 Portion of the Spine exhibiting ulceration in the back parts or rings of the vertebrae. A portion of the ulcerated bone has become separated, and has pressed upon the medulla spinalis. The bones are of their natural texture. 34 Portion of the Spine exhibiting the process of restoration completed after extensive disease. Twelve spinous processes, and the bodies of only four vertebrae, are to be seen in the pre- paration; eight bodies, therefore, have been destroyed. The upper and lower vertebrae have anchylosed. The medulla spinalis has suffered no pressure; it has accommodated itself to the alteration in the direction of the canal containing it.