33 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of recent occurrence in that part of its neck which is covered by synovial membrane. Upon one half of the circumference of the neck of the bone, the periosteal and synovial coverings are torn. Upon the other half, they are uninjured. Hip-Joint, exhibiting fracture of recent occurrence in that part of the neck of the femur which is covered by synovial membrane. A portion of the capsule is detached and turned downwards to shew that it is thickened by the deposition of lymph upon its internal surface. Os Calcis, exhibiting fracture extending transversely through its posterior part, which was believed to have been occasioned by the action of the muscles attached to it. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck and of the trochanter major, which occurred six weeks before death. The direction of the fracture is still evident, it extended transversely across the basis of the neck, and through the root of the trochanter major, so as to detach this process from the rest of the bone. The head and neck are forced downwards between the trochanter major and minor. The several parts of the bone thus brought into contact are united so firmly that they could not be moved upon each other. Portion of a Femur in which there has been fracture of the neck and upper part of the shaft. The fracture extended through the basis of the neck; it also extended through the basis of the trochanter major and minor so as to separate these processes from the rest of the bone. The fractured surfaces are firmly united. Portion of a Femur in which there has been fracture through the basis of its neck. The frac- tured end of the neck has been forced into the shaft of the bone between the trochanters, in which situation it has firmly united. Elbow-Joint, in which there is dislocation of the head of the radius backwards. No reduction of the dislocated bone having been effected, it has become extensively united to the side of the ulna. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck and shaft. Two distinct lines of fracture may be traced, one across the basis of the neck, the other through the shaft at some distance below the trochanter major, and through the trochanter minor. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck and shaft. The fracture runs perpen- dicularly through the basis of the neck; it is also continued for a considerable extent down the shaft. The trochanter minor is also separated. The fractured surfaces have united in those situations where they have been in apposition. Portion of a Femur in which there is fracture of its neck and shaft. The fracture runs obliquely through the basis of the neck; it also extends in several directions into the shaft. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck, which occurred many years before death. There has been complete absorption of the neck of the bone. The surfaces of the head and of the shaft which have been in contact are very smooth and of an ivory-like texture. F