27 g. II G. 12 G. 13 G. 14 G. 15 G. 16 G. IT G. 18 G. 19 G. G. 21 Hip-Joint, in which the articular surfaces of the acetabulum and of the head of the femur have become finely polished, and of an ivory-like texture. Osseous deposition has taken place around the neck of the femur. Hip-Joint, in which there has been absorption of the acetabulum and of the head of the femur. The surfaces of bone which were in contact and have moved freely upon each other, have acquired a fine polish and an ivory-like texture. Portion of a Femur exhibiting absorption of the articular surface of the head, with a con- siderable osseous deposition around the neck of the bone. Hip-Joint, from a young subject. There has been absorption of the brim of the acetabulum, with complete absorption of the head, neck, and part of the shaft of the femur. Hip-Joint, in which there has been absorption of the acetabulum, with osseous deposition around it, and absorption of the head of the femur. Hip-Joint, in which the depth of the acetabulum is increased by the deposition of osseous matter around its margin. There is also absorption of the head of the femur with osseous de- position around its neck. Portion of a Femur exhibiting absorption of the head, with osseous deposition around its neck. Os Innominatum, in which there has been absorption of the acetabulum to the extent of forming a communication between its cavity and the interior of the pelvis. Portion of a Femur in which there has been complete absorption of the head and neck of the bone. Portion of a Femur exhibiting a change in the form of the head of the bone. Its upper sur- face is flattened, and its width is considerably increased. Portion of a Femur in which the neck of the bone seems to have yielded from its softened con- dition, so as to permit the head to be nearly in contact with the posterior part of the trochanter major. Os Innominatum and Sacrum exhibiting anchylosis of the sacro-iliac symphysis. G. 23 Os Innominatum and Sacrum exhibiting anchylosis of the sacro-iliac symphysis. H. 24 Sacrum and Coccyx anchylosed. Knee-Joint, in which disease seems to have commenced in the head of the tibia, this part of the bone being altered in structure, and in progress of ulceration. There is anchylosis of the patella to the femur, and of the condyles of the femur to the tibia. e 2 g. 25