86 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 IT 18 19 Large Cyst, containing hydatids which was attached to the Liver. The lining of the cvst presents an uneven and pulpy surface from a deposition of coagulable lymph upon it. Abscess in the Liver. Section of the Liver, exhibiting a growth of medullary matter from the lining of the trunk and branches of the vena portae. Section of the Liver, exhibiting several circumscribed portions of different sizes which have become of a black, fungous, and reticulated texture. Upon a close examination of this spe- cimen, there will be seen on one of the cut surfaces, other circumscribed portions differing from the natural colour of the organ and changed from the healthy structure. These may perhaps be regarded as the commencement of the alteration which afterwards passes into the black fungous state. Case of Fungus Heematodes, described by Mr. Langstaff. Medico-Chiruryical Transactions, vol. iii. p. 277. Section of the Liver, almost entirely changed in its structure, with distinct tubercles in its substance. Section of the Liver, exhibiting depositions of soft medullary matter diffused through its substance. The intervening parts of the liver are healthy. The limits of the healthy and diseased structure are shewn by the injection, which has only penetrated the former. Section of the Liver, exhibiting depositions of soft medullary matter more circumscribed than in the preceding specimen. The limits of the healthy and diseased structure are shewn by the injection, which has only penetrated the former. Section of the Liver, exhibiting a white interstitial deposition throughout its substance. The external surface of the organ is tuberculated. Section of the Liver, exhibiting numerous depositions of white matter throughout its substance. The limits of the healthy and morbid structure are shewn by the injection. Section of the Liver, exhibiting depositions of soft medullary matter, some of which are diffused, others circumscribed. Section of the Liver, in which there are several large white tubercles of a soft texture. The intervening substance of the organ is healthy. Section of the Liver, in which there are depositions of white and very firm substance. The intervening structure of the organ is healthy.