Larynx and Trachea. Within the larynx is a deep ulcer, which is marked by a bristle. The mucous membrane covering the whole of the larynx and trachea, is thickened and rough on its internal surface. These morbid changes are consequent on Small Pox. Larynx and Trachea, exhibiting the peculiar changes consequent on croup. A continuous layer of lymph is deposited upon the mucous membrane covering the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. Larynx and Trachea. From a man in whom the operation of tracheotomy was performed several years before death. The orifice in the trachea is situated immediately below the cricoid cartilage. The rima glottidis was narrowed by the thickening of the mucous mem- brane covering the cordse vocales. There does not appear to have been any other disease in the larynx. Deposition of lymph upon the mucous membrane of the larynx and trachea. The consequence of Small Pox. Thickening, with Ulceration, of the mucous membrane covering the epiglottis and the larynx. From an individual in whom Elephantiasis existed. Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi, exhibiting the peculiar changes consequent on croup. The mucous membrane is covered by an abundant deposition of lymph, which extends from the larynx into the branches of the bronchi. The aperture in the upper part of the trachea was made during life for the relief of respiration. Presented by Herbert Evans, esq. Larynx, in which an abscess formed around the thyroid cartilage. Part of the cartilage is destroyed by ulceration, and there is a communication between the abscess and the interior of the larynx. Portion of a Thyroid Gland converted into bone. Thyroid Gland. One of its lateral lobes is much smaller than natural. Its other lateral lobe is enlarged and in part converted into a cartilaginous substance, with specks of bone dispersed through it. j Larynx, to which a tumor is attached consisting of a soft caseous substance. In one part of the tumor there is a cavity which was filled by pus. A growth of fungus has also taken place from the mucous membrane of the larynx and pharynx. Presented by G. Macilwain, esq.