16 b. 19 b. 20 B. 21 b. 22 b. 23 b. 24 b. 25 b. 26 b. 27 b. 28 b. 29 b. 30 B. 31 b. 32 Skull-Cap, exhibiting ulceration of the outer table, with thickening of the inner table in the corresponding situation. Skull-Cap, exhibiting general thickening of both tables of the frontal bone, with slight ulceration of the outer table in one situation. Skull-Cap, exhibiting ulceration, which commenced in the outer table. Skull-Cap, exhibiting ulceration of the outer and inner tables. Skull-Cap, exhibiting superficial ulceration of the outer table of the frontal bone, with thickening of the inner table. Portion of the Basis of the Skull exhibiting ulceration of the palate. The effect of venereal disease. Skull-Cap, exhibiting many large ulcerated holes, occasioned by tumors originating in the dura mater. Basis of the Skull, from a young subject, exhibiting extensive ulceration of a part of the parietal and temporal bones. Portion of a Tibia exhibiting superficial ulceration, with a porous appearance of the surround- ing bone. Portions of the Tibia and Fibula. A large portion of the shaft of each bone has been removed by ulceration. Skull-Cap, in which there is extensive ulceration of the outer table at many distinct points, with some thickening of the inner table. It is presumed the ulceration of the outer table was the consequence of suppuration in the diploe. The effect of venereal disease. From the same patient as the thickened bone A. 34. Clavicle. Ulceration has penetrated through the centre of the bone. Osseous deposition has taken place around the ulcerated part. The effect of venereal disease. From the same patient as B. 29. Tibia and Fibula. A large portion of the shaft of the tibia, in its entire thickness, has been removed by ulceration. The inferior portion of the tibia is united to the fibula by bone. The fibula is greatly thickened in its whole extent, and in its centre there has been a fracture which has firmly united. Five dorsal Vertebrse, exhibiting ulceration commencing upon the anterior surfaces of three of their bodies.