60 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Arch and Straight Portion of the Thoracic Aorta greatly dilated. The coats of the artery are generally thickened. Bony matter is deposited between them, and the inner surface of the artery is ulcerated at many points. Aneurism extending from the left ventricle to the termination of the arch of the aorta. The sac is of immense size; the whole of its lower part is formed by the dilated aorta, while at its upper part, the sides are apparently formed by condensed cellular tissue. On the internal surface of this latter part of the sac there are small depositions of lymph. With the upper part of the sac, three ribs belonging to the right side of the chest, and a part of the sternum, are connected. A small fissure may be discovered in the side of the sac towards its upper part. In this situation the rupture of the sac took place. The heart is healthy, except that the pericardium is generally adherent to it. Aneurism arising from the Arch of the Aorta, and thence extending forwards through the sternum and cartilages of the ribs to the front of the chest, where it forms a considerably projecting tumor. Section of an Aneurismal Sac arising from the Arch of the Aorta. The cavity of the sac is almost filled by laminated coagulum. The internal membrane of the artery is thickened. The trachea is attached to the sac, and its internal membrane is elevated at several points in con- sequence of the pressure of the sac against it. The sac is closely adherent to the arteria innominata, right carotid and subclavian arteries. Portion of the preceding Aneurismal Sac which has been removed to shew the laminated appearance of the coagulum contained in it. Portions of the Femoral, Popliteal, and Tibial Arteries, the coats of which are almost com- pletely converted into bone. Aneurism arising from the Arch of the Aorta which has burst into the pulmonary artery. The internal coat of the aorta is irregularly thickened. Case described by Dr. Wells. Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chiruryical Knowledye, vol. iii. p. 85. Aneurism arising from the Arch of the Aorta which has burst into the pulmonary artery. The aneurismal sac appears to be formed entirely by the dilated aorta. Section of an Aneurismal Sac arising from the Abdominal Aorta. A piece of bougie is in- troduced into the aperture by which the sac has burst.