32 entirely wanting. Small portions of bone, apparently rudiments of a femur and tibia, are connected with the ilium of the opposite side. Presented by Thomas Stocker, esq. 22 Skeleton of a Foetus born with hydrocephalus, which escaped from a ruptured uterus. The heart measures twenty inches in circumference, and seventeen inches from the nose to the foramen magnum. The uterus is preserved. Diseases of the Uterus, &c. No 38. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 23 Head of a Foetus born with hydrocephalus. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 24 Masses of fat, with a portion of bone resembling the upper jaw, and several teeth, which were found in the anterior mediastinum of an adult female. Case described by Dr. Gordon. Medico-chirurgical Transactions Vol. xiii. p. 12. Presented by W. Kingdon, esq. 25 Kidney, in which the ureter is continued from the infundibula without the formation of a pelvis. 26 Kidney, from which two ureters are continued. 27 Kidneys, united at their lower ends. 28 Kidneys, united at their lower ends. 29 Kidneys, from an adult, consisting of one large mass, and of many smaller portions continued from it, and which extended across the abdomen. 30 Rectum of an infant, a portion of which, to the extent of an inch, is deficient just above the anus. The intestine is dilated into a large sac by the meconium which distended it. A bristle is passed through an aperture in the intestine which was made by a trochar in an attempt to obtaiir a passage for the evacuation of the meconium. 31 Heart of a child, about ten years of age. The right ventricle consists of solid muscular substance, except at its upper part, where there is a small cavity. This cavity has no direct communication with the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery is of its natural size but completely closed at its origin. The semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery are not formed. The ductus arteriosus was pervious. The auricles are perfect. The tricuspid valve is imperfect, it consists of a very narrow slip of membrane. The mitral valve is perfect. The foramen ovale is widely open.