40 |B. 22 h. 23 h. 24 h.25 jH. 26 h. 27 jH. 28 I ih. 29 jH. 30 |h. 31 ■ ih. 32 Ih. 33 h. 34 Portions of a Tibia and Fibula. There is fracture of the tibia about two inches above the ankle, and the fracture extends downwards in two directions into the ankle-joint. The fibula is fractured about four inches above the ankle. Two Ribs which have been fractured. In one rib the fracture occurred near its middle, and in the other near its angle. There has been no displacement of the ends of the bones, and the fractures have firmly united. Humerus, which has been fractured in several directions just above the condyles. The frac- tures have firmly united. Sections of a Humerus which has been fractured obliquely through the middle of its shaft. Portion of a Humerus in which there has been fracture of the upper part of the shaft extending to its head. Scapula and Humerus. The glenoid cavity is altered in form, and there appears to have been a fracture through its centre. The head of the humerus is adapted to the altered glenoid cavity. Scapula, in which there has been a transverse fracture of the acromion which has not united. It i)iay be inferred from the appearance of the bone that the fracture occurred a considerable time before death. Radius and Ulna which have been fractured near their upper ends. A considerable osseous deposition has taken place between the fractured surfaces and around them. Radius, which has been fractured about its middle. The fracture has united with a little overlapping of the ends of the bone. Radius and Ulna. The radius has been broken about an inch above its lower end. The fracture has united with the lower portion of bone considerably in front of the upper. The head of the ulna is altered in form, but it is uncertain whether this was from fracture. Clavicle, which has been broken in its centre. The fracture has united with the scapular end of the bone beneath its sternal end. Scapula, which has been broken transversely a little below the spine, also through the acromion. Both fractures have united. Scapula and a portion of the Humerus. The glenoid cavity is greatly altered in its form