5 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 The masses of fine bony fibres connected with the bone originally grew from it, but were separated in the maceration. The diseased structure growing from the thigh bone formed a tumor of very large size. The remaining part of this tumor is preserved moist. No. 27. Section of the Tumor referred to in No. 26, consisting of an intermixture of fleshy substance and fine bony fibres. The Cast of the limb from which the two preceding specimens were taken. No. 2. Sacrum, exhibiting a large cavity in its interior, which contained pus. The walls of the bone seem to have been expanded, and are in part removed by ulceration. Section of a Tibia, with the soft parts covering it, exhibiting the effects of Ulceration. This section was made longitudinally through the middle of the tibia; the other half of the tibia and the fibula are in the bottle No. 30. By viewing the two preparations together, it will be seen that the ulcerative process has extended completely through the body of the tibia, in a great part of its length, and has even reached the fibula, as is evinced by the peculiar excavated appearance of its surface. No attempt has been made to restore the lost bone; there is merely a slight deposition of bony matter upon the surface of the fibula, opposite to that which is in progress of ulceration. The interosseous ligament is in part converted into bone. The integuments around the hollow which has been left by the ulceration are much changed in structure; they are swollen, and of a peculiar granulated appearance. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula, exhibiting the effects of Ulceration. The description of this preparation is comprised in the preceding. Lower extremity of a Femur, exhibiting the effects of Ulceration, with an irregular deposi- tion of bony matter around the ulcerated surface. A large Cyst connected with the upper part of the Tibia. The disease seems to have com- menced in the head of the tibia. The walls of the bone are completely absorbed, so that the parietes of the cyst are now formed above by the cartilage which covered the head of the bone, and in the other directions, by condensed cellular tissue. A large portion of the cyst has been removed, to give a clear view of its interior. Portion of Integuments removed from a diseased Bone, exhibiting a peculiar change of structure in the skin, with thickening of the subjacent parts. Section of the Femur of a rickety Child curved in consequence of the want of its natural hardness; its structure, instead of the natural division into solid walls and medullary cavity, consists throughout of a cartilaginous and gelatinous substance intermixed, and disposed in cells. It is observable, that a greater quantity of the cartilaginous substance is deposited in the centre of the bone, and towards the interior curve. The articular ends of the bone are in a natural state.