80 1? 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 Portion of Jejunum which was strangulated in an umbilical hernia. In the situation of the stricture, the intestine is contracted, and immediately above it, is an ulcerated aperture into which a portion of straw is passed. Portion of Small Intestine which was strangulated in a femoral hernia. Its coats are spha- celated in the line of the stricture, and nearly in the whole circumference of the intestine. A considerable portion of the Small Intestines of a Child strangulated by a preternatural band, which is connected at both its extremities with the mesentery. Bristles are passed behind the band. The whole of the intestine below the bristles is strangulated and is of a deep red colour. The mesenteric glands are swollen. Portion of Small Intestine exhibiting a contraction, which has been caused by one of the appendices epiploicae, with a part of the omentum, having passed tightly around it. Femoral Hernia, in the Male, strangulated. The contents of the sac are omentum and intestine. The sac is separated from the fascia propria. Gimbernat’s ligament is closely applied to the inner side of the neck of the sac. The epigastric artery is situated immediately above, and to the outer side of the sac. Femoral Hernia, of recent occurrence. On one side of the preparation, is the fascia propria just below, the semilunar edge of the fascia lata. On the other side, is the peritoneal sac separated from the fascia propria, and withdrawn from beneath the crural arch. Femoral Hernia, of recent occurrence, displaying the formation of the fascia propria. The peritoneum has been separated from the abdominal muscles. Cellular tissue protruded beneath the crural arch, forms a distinct pouch just below, and on the inner side of the semilunar edge of the fascia lata. Inguinal Hernia, in the Female. The sac has enlarged within the inguinal canal, and has thence extended through the opening in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, so that part of the sac is lodged within the inguinal canal, and part in the labium pudendi. The aponeurosis of the external oblique is reflected from the upper part of the sac, the neck of which is crossed by the internal oblique and transversal!s muscles. Cast from the subject of this Hernia, No. 4. Femoral Hernia, in which the operation has been performed. The sac has sphacelated; the remains of it will be recognised by its black colour. The incision of the stricture has been continued from the anterior part of the sac directly upwards. The obturator artery arising by a common trunk with the epigastric, descends on the outer side of the mouth of the sac. Femoral Hernia, in which the operation has been performed. The coverings of the sac are