104 0 Bladder, with the Ureters, and Kidneys. The bladder is thickened, and it contains a calculus. The ureters, pelvis, and infundibula of the kidneys are widely dilated. 1 0 Bladder, exhibiting a large sac connected with its posterior part, and communicating with its cavity by a small round opening. A portion of the sac has been removed. The bladder is much thickened. Above the communication of the bladder with this sac, is an orifice in the bladder which was made by a trochar introduced from the rectum during life. There is a smaller sac communicating with the bladder a little above the termination of one of the ureters. i 1 Bladder, the coats of which are much thickened and converted into a cartilaginous substance, in consequence of the lodgment of a calculus in its cavity. The incision in the lower part of the bladder was made during life in the performance of the operation of lithotomy. Presented by Charles Mayo, esq. 1 ~ Bladder, Ureters, and Kidneys of a child upon whom the operation of lithotomy was performed a few days before death. The bladder is contracted and thickened. The ureters, pelves, and infundibula of the kidneys are widely dilated. 14 Bladder, Urethra, and a portion of the Os Pubis, from an individual upon whom the operation of lithotomy had been performed. A portion of the front of the bladder is destroyed by ulceration; the remaining part of the bladder is greatly thickened. A large calculus is lodged within the prostate gland. ]4 Bladder of a child. The muscular coat is greatly thickened. 1 5 Bladder, exhibiting a general thickening of its coats with the growth of a large mass of soft medullary substance from the mucous membrane. A large sac filled with the same sort of medullary substance communicates with the lower and posterior part of the bladder. One of the ureters terminates in this sac by an opening through which a quill is passed. A passage has been formed through the prostate gland by a silver catheter. 16 Bladder, contracted and thickened, with ulceration of its posterior part, and the formation of a passage from its cavity into the rectum. This passage is laid open for the purpose of shewing a calculus which is lodged within it. The ureters are dilated, and there is a small calculus lodged in each ureter just before its termination in the bladder. The mucous membrane of the rectum is formed into thick and hard folds. The calculi at the bottom of the bottle were found in the bladder. Presented by James Gillman, esq.