79 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Inguinal Hernia. The sac is divided into two portions by a membranous partition, in which there are several small apertures. Congenital Hernia. Congenital Hernia. Inguinal Hernia, exhibiting the obliteration of the mouth of the sac from the use of a truss. The peritoneum has a puckered appearance in the situation where the mouth of the sac formerly existed. Inguinal Hernia, exhibiting the same circumstances as the preceding specimen. Inguinal Hernia, strangulated. The intestine, not having passed through the opening in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, is contained within the inguinal canal. The aponeurosis is divided and turned upwards. The sac is opened, shewing the strangulated gut of a deep red colour. The lower border of the internal oblique and tranversalis muscles crosses over the neck of the sac. Two bristles are passed between the thickened margin of the peritoneum, constituting the stricture, and the strangulated intestine. A bristle is passed beneath the epigastric vessels. Inguinal Hernia combined with Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis. The Hernia is situated behind the enlarged tunica vaginalis, which is laid open anteriorly. The neck of the hernial sac is opened and a portion of quill introduced into it. The lower part of the sac is opened to shew its contents, which are ccecum and colon. The vessels of the spermatic cord are separated. The spermatic artery and the vas deferens pass together along one side of the sac, and the spermatic veins are at some distance from them. Inguinal Hernia. A portion of intestine has become extensively and firmly united to the sac immediately below the opening in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. Inguinal Hernia, with displacement of the vessels of the Spermatic Cord. The spermatic artery and the vas deferens are situated close together; the spermatic veins are at some distance from them. Inguinal Hernia combined with Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis. The hernial sac extends downwards to the upper part of the tunica vaginalis. Portion of Ilium which was strangulated in an umbilical hernia. In the situation of the stricture, the intestine is considerably contracted, and its coats are sphacelated in the greater part of its circumference. A piece of whalebone is passed through one of the sphacelated openings,