45 6 7 I 10 12 13 14 15 16 Portion of Dura Mater exhibiting the growth of a Fungus from its external surface. The fungus has caused the absorption of the superincumbent bone, and has thus formed for itself the aperture through which it is protruded outwards. A part of the fungus is lodged between the skull and the dura mater, so as to form a tumor projecting inwards upon the brain. Portion of Dura Mater thickened by a deposition of lymph, both upon its external and internal surfaces. Portion of Dura Mater exhibiting the growth of small fleshy tumors both from its external and internal surfaces. Those arising from the external surface have caused the complete absorption of the bone in some situations, so that they appear on the outside of the skull. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is an Apoplectic Cell containing a dark red clot. There is also effusion of blood upon the surface of the brain, beneath the tunica arachnoidea. The blood within the brain appears to be loosely connected with the sides of the cavity containing it. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is an Apoplectic Cell containing a clot of a much lighter colour than in the preceding specimen. The blood appears to be closely united to the substance of the brain. The two preceding specimens were taken from the same individual. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is an Apoplectic Cell containing a clot from which the red particles have entirely disappeared. The remaining part of the clot is closely united to the substance of the brain. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is an Apoplectic Cell, which contained a serous fluid. The two separate portions of brain, when put together, form the complete cell. The surface of the cell is irregular and broken. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is an Apoplectic Cell, which contained a serous fluid. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is an Apoplectic Cell of recent occurrence. The blood has been completely removed to shew the surface of the cell, which is broken and irregular. Portion of Cerebrum exhibiting the effusion of blood upon its surface, beneath the tunica arachnoidea. Portion of Dura Mater exhibiting the growth of a firm fleshy tumor from its internal surface.