84 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 Congenital Hernia, upon which the operation has been performed. On one side of the pre paration is a portion of the hernial sac, which extended from the abdominal ring into the scrotum. On the other side, is another portion of the sac, which was within the cavity of the abdomen. Within this portion of the sac some small intestine and the testicle were contained. The intestine has been drawn on one side to permit the testicle being seen. It appeared that in the operation, the whole of the strangulated intestine had been pushed from the lower part of the hernial sac, into that part of it which was within the abdomen. Inguinal Hernia. There are two distinct hernial sacs closely united. Each sac has its separate orifice of communication with the abdomen. The orifice of one sac is very small; it will be recognised by the portion of quill which is introduced into it. The spermatic cord is behind the hernial sacs. Femoral Hernia, in the male. The hernial sac with its contents has'sphacelated; its remains consist of a pulpy mass, in which no distinction of parts can be recognised. Three distinct portions of small intestine were protruded into the hernial sac. A portion of straw is passed into each orifice of the intestine. A large portion of Omentum which was removed in the operation upon an inguinal hernia. Intussusception in the small intestine of a child. Intussusception of a large portion of the Ilium, with the Appendix Coeci, within the Coecum and ascending Colon. In this instance, there is a diverticulum ilii which has passed into the colon with the intussuscepted ilium, but has become everted, and has passed back again into the ilium; thus producing a double intussusception, of the ilium within the colon, and of the diverticulum within the ilium. At the upper part of the preparation is seen the coecum with the commencement of the intussusception, and the retroverted diverticulum ilii; at the lower part, is the whole of the intussuscepted ilium, which is of a dark brown colour in consequence of its vessels being distended with blood. Intussusception of a considerable portion of the Ilium within the Colon. Portion of Small Intestine, to the extent of nearly three feet, which was discharged in a gangrenous state, from the anus. It is presumed that there had been an intussusception of this portion of intestine. The Coecum and a portion of the Ilium connected with it, from the same individual as the preceding specimen. The coecum is opened to shew the condition of its mucous membrane, which is extensively ulcerated. Portions of it hang in shreds in the cavity of the intestine. A straw is passed from the coecum into the valve of the ilium. The ilium is opened to shew the adhesion of its extremity to the coecum, and there is a continuity of surface between the inner membrane of the ilium and of the coecum. In the individual from whom the two preceding specimens were taken, a large portion of the ilium having been discharged in a gangrenous state, the remaining part ot it has become adherent to the coecum. In this way the continuity of the intestine is preserved. Presented by Wm. Radnor, esq.