58 33 : Heart exhibiting changes of structure in several of its internal parts. The lining membrane of the right auricle is thickened and opaque. In the left auricle, it has undergone the same ' changes, but in a much greater degree. The tricuspid valve is thickened. The mitral valve j is greatly thickened, and osseous matter is deposited along its loose margin. The cavity of the left auricle is enlarged. Upon the internal surface of this auricle and near the appendix, was a mass of lymph, on the removal of which the membrane beneath was discovered to be rough and otherwise changed. The aortic valves are thickened. 34 Heart of a child, exhibiting an abundant deposition of lymph universally upon the pericardium. That portion of the pericardium which forms the bag around the heart is thickened. 35 36 37 38 Section of a Tumor growing from the inside of the left auricle. When recent, it was of a yellowish colour, semitransparent and smooth. On detaching the tumor from the lining of the auricle, this was left rough and otherwise altered in its texture. Heart of an adult, in which there is a large oval opening in the septum between the auricles. Heart of an adult. The cavity of the right auricle is larger than natural, and its membranous lining is thick and opaque. The tricuspid valve is thickened. The cavity of the left ventricle is larger than natural. Its muscular substance is considerably thickened and its lining is opaque. The aortic valves are a little thickened, and there is soft matter deposited beneath the lining of the aorta just above the valves. The coronary arteries are thickened, and there is bony matter deposited between their coats. A rupture of the septum dividing the ventricles has taken place near its union with the posterior wall of the heart, by which a free communi- cation is formed between the two ventricles. On the side of the left ventricle, the opening is about two inches in length and of a semilunar form. On the side of the right ventricle, the opening is much smaller and rounded. Semilunar valves of the aorta, upon the surface of which there is a considerable deposition of bone.