34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 76 Rectum, exhibiting general thickening and ulceration of its coats. There are numerous ulcerated apertures in the gut just above the anus; one of these apertures extends completely through the intestine and through the coats of the bladder into its cavity. The integuments around the anus are much thickened and formed into irregular folds. Fistula, extending from the anus upwards by the side of the rectum between the fibres of the levator ani muscle and the longitudinal muscular fibres of the intestine. Portion of Rectum, from a young subject. A quill is passed through an aperture in the upper part of the intestine where it is covered by peritoneum; this aperture was made by the end of a metallic glyster-pipe. Rectum, from a middle aged female, exhibiting a complete removal of its mucous membrane by ulceration, to the extent of several inches. Abscesses, which formed in the cellular tissue around the intestine, have burst into it by several openings. Rectum, in which there are hsemorrhoidal tumors distended by coarse wax, which was injected into the inferior mesenteric vein. Soft substances discharged per anum. Some of these resemble pieces of membrane, others have a tubular form, and there are some resembling pieces of fat. Ulceration of the Ilium. A portion of omentum is firmly adherent to the intestine in the situation of the ulcer. Mesenteric Glands enlarged and converted into a soft caseous matter. Rectum, exhibiting the growth of soft medullary matter from its mucous membrane. The coats of the gut are generally thickened, and in various parts ulcerated. Haemorrhoids around the anus. They consist partly of the mucous membrane of the rectum, and partly of the external integuments, thickened and formed into irregular folds. Soft substances diacharged per anum, possessing the same character as those which have been described, No. 39. Duodenum, exhibiting the effects of Sulphuric Acid. The mucous membrane is in some situations corrugated, and in others it is completely destroyed. From the same individual as the Stomach, No. 9. Fistula, with Ulcers in the Rectum. The fistulous passage extends some way upwards along the outside of the rectum. Other passages are continued from it around the intestine. In the mucous membrane are numerous minute points of ulceration. The fistulous passages are lined by a soft villous membrane.