I 62 i Aneurism of the Carotid Artery. The aneurism includes a portion of the common carotid with the commencement of the external and internal carotid arteries. The sac is filled by a firm coagulum. About an inch below the sac, a ligature has been placed around the artery, which was not separated at the time of death. Between the ligature and the aneurism, the artery is filled by coagulum. Between the ligature and the origin of the subclavian artery, the carotid is filled by a coagulum which firmly adheres to its sides. The aorta presents a tuberculated appearance upon its internal surface from the deposition of soft matter between its coats. Portions of the nervus vagus and of the sympathetic nerve are firmly united to the aneurismal sac. The external and internal carotid arteries are closed at the point of their communication with the aneurism. 63 Aneurism of the Axillary and Subclavian Artery. The aneurism includes nearly three inches of the artery, a portion of which to this extent is wanting. The axillary plexus of nerves is connected with one side of the sac. Portions of the first and second ribs connected with the sac, form part of its boundaries. Only half an inch of the artery intervenes between the aneurism and the cluster of branches arising from the first portion of the subclavian. On each side of the aneurism, the coats of the artery are thickened by the deposition of soft matter between them. | I 64 I Femoral Artery, exhibiting the laceration of its inner coats from external violence. The lace- ration is visible near the upper extremity of the artery, and at its lower extremity, the artery is closed by a ligature which was placed around it a short time before death. From a case of compound fracture, in which the limb was amputated. 65 Posterior Tibial Artery and Vein, which were wounded a few clays before death. The wound is transverse, and it extends through one side only of each vessel. The large clot of blood seen in the preparation was found adhering to both vessels. The cavity in the clot was exactly over the division of their coats. j 66 Ossified Femoral Artery, shewing the effects of a ligature which was placed around it a few days before death. The ligature was applied at a little distance from the extremity of the artery, and it has divided the two inner coats. Above the ligature, the artery, to the extent of two inches, is filled by coagulum. 6 i Aneurism of the Subclavian and Axillary Artery. The aneurism occupies a part of the sub- clavian and the whole extent of the axillary artery to the commencement of the brachial. The sac was of large size. A small portion only of it is preserved connecting the two parts of the artery. Bristles are passed into the apertures of communication between the artery and the sac. The axillary nerves are connected with the sac. The artery is not obviously changed in structure on either side of the aneurism. k 2