FIRST SERIES. DISEASES OF BONE. 1 Abscess in the medulla of the Tibia. The situation of the abscess is pointed out by the deficiency of medulla in that part of the bone. The periosteum is not so strongly united to the bone as in the natural state; it has been partially reflected, in order to shew its vascularity and softened texture opposite to, and for some way above and below the situation of the abscess. The perfect inj ection of the vessels of the bone shews that it retained its vitality. 2 Superficial Necrosis of the Tibia, exhibiting the process of Exfoliation. The dead and exfoliating piece of bone is separated from the living bone in the upper half of its extent, and the space which has been formed by the absorbents between the dead and the living bone is occupied by soft vascular matter. The granulations arising from the parts around the dead bone are large and spongy. 3 Necrosis of the Tibia. In this instance the whole body of the tibia has died, new bone has in consequence formed around it, and the old bone is in part removed. Soft vascular matter intervenes between the living and dead bone. The absorption of the dead bone has taken place in those situations where it is in contact with the soft and vascular matter. The surface of the dead bone, in progress of absorption, is irregularly excavated. The walls of the new bone are very thick, its external surface is irregular, and it is of a very dense texture. 4 Necrosis of the Tibia. In this instance the head and a part of the body of the tibia have died, and are replaced by new bone. The small portion at the bottom of the bottle is all that remains of the old bone; it was lodged in the cavity within the new bone. The new bone has been sawed longitudinally, and the anterior part turned downwards. The periosteum lias been partially reflected, in order to shew the rough external surface of the new bone. 5 Necrosis of the Femur. The whole body of the femur has died, and is entirely separated from the articular ends. The dead bone is contained in a sort of cavity formed in part by the new bony cylinder, which is not yet complete, and in part by the surrounding soft matter. B