25 35 Portion of the Spine exhibiting ulceration of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the bodies of the cervical vertebra. 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 Portion of the Spine exhibiting ulceration, with depositions of bone upon the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae. Portion of the Occipital bone, with the three uppermost Cervical Vertebrae. The occipital bone and the atlas ai’e firmly anchylosed. The second and third vertebrae are also anchylosed. The odontoid process and the body of the second vertebra are changed in structure, and in part removed by ulceration. Soft Substances which have been removed from the sheaths of Tendons. Most of them are smooth, flattened, and rounded at their edges. A Cartilage which was removed from the interior of , the capsule of the Knee-Joint. Bone is deposited in the centre of the cartilage. Sections of a Cartilage which was removed from the interior of the capsule of the Knee-Joint. Specks of bone are deposited in the centre of the cartilage. Basis of the Skull, exhibiting disease in one of the articulations with the lower jaw. Ulceration commencing in the articular surface of the glenoid cavity has extended deeply into the surrounding bone; and around the ulcerated surface, new osseous matter is deposited. Portion of the Occipital Bone, with the Atlas. The atlas is anchylosed to the occipital bone, and is displaced to one side, so that its lateral part projecting within the foramen magnum, considerably diminishes the size of the aperture. Second and Third Cervical Vertebra firmly united by bone. Part of the odontoid process has been destroyed by ulceration. Second and Third Cervical Vertebrae, exhibiting a bony union of their bodies, articular sur- faces, and spinous processes. It is uncertain whether this was the effect of accident or disease. Spine from a young subject, exhibiting a complete destruction of the intervertebral substance in the whole extent of the column, with ulceration of the bodies of the vertebras. The bodk of several of the lumbar vertebrae are completely destroyed, and an angle is here formed by th approximation of the upper and lower parts of the column and the projection of the spinor processes. The bone in progress of ulceration is not softened, or otherwise changed in ; texture. E