4 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 Sections of a Tibia, the walls of which have perished through the whole shaft of the bone, and are in progress of separation from the cancellous and medullary texture, which has preserved its vitality. The groove formed between the dead and the living bone is filled with soft and very vascular granulations. From the internal surface of the periosteum new bone is forming, to supply the place of that which has perished. Portion of a Tibia from a compound fracture, exhibiting the changes in the periosteum and bone, preparatory to the exfoliation of the fractured extremity. The Periosteum is thickened and very vascular, and granulations have grown from its torn margin; a portion of it is de- tached and turned back, to shew the subjacent bone in a higher state of vascularity than natural. The extremity of the bone has acquired the peculiar whitish colour of dead bone. Portion of a Tibia from a compound fracture, exhibiting exfoliation of the broken extremity of the bone in its early stage. The dead bone is distinguishable from the living by its peculiar whiteness. The separation of the dead bone has commenced by the formation of a superficial groove in the adjacent living bone. Granulations have arisen from the exposed medulla. Section of a Femur, and of part of a Tumor which surrounds it. The tumor exhibits various textures. In some parts it consists of soft matter, arranged in cells filled by gelatinous fluid ; in others it consists of cartilaginous matter, mixed with spiculse of bone. The bone itself is natural, except that its external surface is rough and deprived of the periosteum. Cast of the Limb from which No. 22 was taken. No. 1. The front of the Lower Jaw of a Child, which was removed by operation, on account of a tumor arising from the cancellous texture of the bone, and thence protruding into the mouth. In the progress of the operation, the front of the jaw separated into an upper and a lower portion. With the upper portion there is a part of the tumor which was lodged in a cavity of the bone formed by the absorption of its cancellous texture, and by the separation of its anterior and posterior walls. The tumor consisted throughout of a red and fleshy mass, resembling a piece of lacerated spleen. Tibia, exhibiting a peculiar alteration of structure in its upper two thirds. The external surface of the bone has become of a whitish colour, and of a rough and very porous texture. From this diseased structure, a growth of very fine bony fibres has arisen, which shoot out- wards from the surface of the bone. Section of a large Tumor growing from the lower part of the Femur, consisting of an inter- mixture of cartilaginous and osseous matter. A part of the morbid structure is seen extending itself from one side of the bone, through the interior, almost to the opposite side. Femur affected with the same kind of disease as No. 24. The body of the bone has been in great part destroyed by ulceration. Around the ulcerated part, the bone is rough and porous.