18 I d. 9 D. 10 D. 11 D. 12 D. 13 D. 14 D. 15 !). 16 I). 1? ;d. 18 ID. 19 d. 20 D. 21 Sections of a Tibia in which there has been Necrosis of a portion of the cancellous texture near its head. Section of a Tibia exhibiting superficial Necrosis of its walls. A groove has formed around the dead bone, and there is a considerable deposition of osseous matter upon the surrounding living bone. The other half of this bone is contained in the bottle No. 18. Skull-Cap, exhibiting Necrosis of a large portion of both its tables. A groove has formed around the dead bone. Two applications of the trephine were made in the dead bone, with the expectation of finding matter beneath it. The necrosis was produced by a burn. Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive Necrosis of its outer table, with thickening of the inner table. A groove has formed around the dead bone. Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive Necrosis of the outer table. A groove has formed around the dead bone. Skull, exhibiting extensive Necrosis of both tables. The dead bone has been in part removed. Skull-Cap, exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of its outer table, with thickening of the inner table to a corresponding extent. The dead bone is of a black colour. Skull-Cap, in which there has been Necrosis, penetrating both its tables in several distinct situations. Skull-Cap, in which there has been Necrosis of a considerable portion of the outer table, with thickening of the inner table to a corresponding extent. Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive Necrosis of the outer table, and to a small extent, of the inner table. Skull, exhibiting extensive Necrosis of both its tables. The effect of venereal disease. 7 O Humerus, in which there has been Necrosis of the lower two thirds of the shaft. A consi- derable deposition of new bone has taken place around the dead portion, which has not yet separated. The effect of venereal disease. From the same individual as the thickened bone A. 34. The lower end of a Tibia, which separated by exfoliation in a case of compound fracture. Presented by Pt. S. Eyles, esq.