42 H. 45 h. 46 h. 47 h. 48 h. 49 i h. 50 h. 51 h. 52 13. 53 h. 54 h. 55 Skull-Cap, in which there has been extensive fracture of the frontal and parietal bones, which has firmly united. Sternum, fractured transversely through its second bone. Sternum, fractured transversely through its second bone. Sections of a Femur in which there is fracture of the shaft an inch below the trochanter minor. The fractured ends overlap considerably, the lower end being drawn upwards in front of the upper. A moderately firm union has taken place between the surfaces of bone which are in contact. From a female aged sixty-seven, who died five weeks after the occurrence of the injury. Portion of a Femur in which there has been fracture extending through the basis of its neck and through the trochanter major. The fractured surfaces have firmly united, with a descent of the neck of the bone considerably below its natural situation. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck, of which no union has taken place. The neck of the bone is almost completely absorbed. Depositions of osseous matter have taken place upon the head of the bone. From an aged female. The fracture occurred nineteen years before death. Presented by J. H. B. Williams, esq. Sections of a Femur in which there has been fracture extending through the basis of its neck, and through its shaft between the trochanters. There is firm union of the fractured surfaces, with shortening of the neck and a descent of it below its natural situation. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck, of which there is no union. The surfaces of the head, and of the shaft, which were in contact, are smooth and very dense. Irregular osseous depositions have taken place upon the shaft around the fractured surface, and upon the head of the bone. Sections of a Femur in which there has been fracture extending through the basis of its neck. There is firm union of the fractured surfaces, with the descent of the neck considerably below its natural situation. Portion of a Femur in which there is fracture of the shaft immediately above the trochanter minor, and in such a direction, that the trochanter major is separated from the rest of the bone. Portion of a Femur in which there is fracture extending obliquely through the neck, close to the head of the bone.