37 formed at the margin of the ilium in the situation of the anterior inferior spine. The ligamentum teres is still attached to the head of the bone, and bristles are passed beneath the two portions of this ligament which retain their attachments to the margin of the original acetabulum. The lower extremities of a Tibia and Fibula. A fracture, which was of recent occurrence, extends through the tibia to its articular surface. The communication of this fracture with the ankle-joint is closed by a layer of lymph firmly adhering to the articular cartilage of the tibia. Sections of the Head, Neck, and part of the Shaft of a Femur. The neck of the bone is considerably shortened, and there is irregular osseous deposition upon its external surface. It is uncertain whether these changes were consequent on injury. Portion of a Humerus exhibiting distinct fractures extending through its condyles into the elbow-joint. The fractured surfaces are united by ligamentous matter. Shoulder-Joint with the Shaft of the Humerus, exhibiting dislocation and fracture. The head of the humerus is thrown forwards beneath the coracoid process. The tendon of the long head of the biceps is entire. The tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles are also entire. There have been two fractures in the shaft of the bone, and they are both firmly united. The injury consisted, in the first instance, of the dislocation and a single fracture. No attempt was made to reduce the dislocation, and when the fracture had united, the patient fell down, and the second fracture then occurred. Section of the Cartilage of a Rib which has been fractured and is firmly united. The uniting medium consists of cartilage and of bone. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck which occurred many years before death. The neck of the bone is absorbed, and the fractured surface of the head has become firmly united to the capsule, by a broad band of fibrous substance. Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture of its neck. Bristles are introduced between the fractured surfaces, and it will be observed that the attachment of the capsule to the bone is entirely beyond the line of the fracture. The neck of the bone is partly absorbed, and the union of the fractured surfaces, although not yet complete, is by osseous matter. The individual from whom this specimen was taken was eighteen years of age, and he died two months after the occurrence of the injury. Knee-Joint from a young subject, exhibiting an oblique fracture of the Femur just above the condyles. The upper portion of the femur, crossing the lower portion obliquely, has become united by osseous substance to the back part of the outer condyle. The extremity of the upper portion of the femur protruding through the skin was removed during life by the saw. Inflammation extending to the knee-joint has produced absorption of the articular cartilages and adhesion of the opposite parts of the joint to each other. At the bottom of the bottle is the piece of bone which was removed by the saw.