66 53 54 | 55 56 | 57 58 59 60 61 Aneurism arising from the Arch of the Aorta, which has hurst into the trachea. The sac is in great part filled by coagulum. The internal coat of the artery is thickened. Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. The preparation comprises the upper and lower portions of the popliteal vessels with a part of the aneurismal sac. The upper portion of the artery is pervious to its termination in the sac. The lower portion of the artery is pervious, and terminates in the sac by an opening of considerable length. The upper portion of the vein is obliterated. The lower portion is pervious. Aneurism arising from the Arch of the Aorta, which has burst into the trachea and oesophagus. The sac is nearly filled by layers of coagulum. The blood has passed between the coagulum and the parietes of the gac in the direction marked by two pieces of whalebone, to the apertures by which the sac has burst. Aneurism arising from the Arch of the Aorta, which has burst into the oesophagus. The internal coat of the artery is much thickened. External Iliac Artery lacerated completely through its coats. The torn ends of the artery are connected together by a coagulum of blood. The coats of the artery are not obviously diseased. Subclavian and Axillary Artery. The coats of the artery are thickened and its cavity is generally dilated. Aneurism of the Straight Portion of the Thoracic Aorta. The sac has extended into the bodies of the vertebrae, and has burst into the oesophagus. The inner membrane of the artery has, throughout, a tuberculated appearance. Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The coats of the artery are generally thickened. No adhesion of its sides has taken place at the amputated extremity. For some distance above this, the artery is filled by coagulum. The extremity of the vein is closed. Aneurism of the Abdominal Portion of the Aorta extending into the bodies of the vertebrae. The sac appears to be formed by a general dilatation of the coats of the artery, which are thickened. Femoral Artery and Vein, which were exposed and partly destroyed in the progress of a pha- gedeenic sore. The coats of the artery to the extent of about an inch are completely dis- organized. Two openings are visible in this portion of the vessel. Above the diseased part of the artery, a circular indentation in its walls may be perceived, which was occasioned by a ligature placed around it in consequence of haemorrhage from the openings just mentioned. A portion of the vein is completely destroyed. A coagulum fills the cavity of the vein below the obliterated part.