24 46 4T 48 Model in wax, representing the Stomach with part of the Duodenum of an individual poisoned by sulphuric acid. Model of a Tumor, situated upon the lower part of the Neck, Shoulder, and Chest. It consisted of medullary substance. Model of an Osteosarcomatous Tumor, which originated in the lower jaw. The diseased parts are preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 49 50 Model, representing a large and foul Ulcer between the lower jaw and the ear. From an individual who had been a chimney-sweeper. Model of the External Genital Organs of an individual, twenty-two years of age. The testicles, contained in separate bags of skin, with the spermatic cords, were distinctly recognised. The urethra terminates by a large orifice in the perineum. The penis is very small. The individual from whom this model was taken wore the dress of a female. 51 52 Cast of the Face of the individual from whom the preceding model was taken. Model of a Chinese to whose body another male child is attached. Extract from the account of this case. Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. v. and vol. vii, “A-ke was born sixteen years ago, with another male child of nearly the same size united to the pit of his stomach by the neck, as if his brother had plunged its head into his breast. The skin of the principal here joins that of the upper part of the neck of the parasite quite regularly and smoothly, excepting the superficial blood-vessels, which appear somewhat turgid. The sufferings of the mother were so great, that she survived the birth of this monster only two days. Since that time, the parasite has not much increased in size, and at present, is not much larger than new born infants usually are; but the bones are completely formed.” Presented by H. Earle, esq. 53 Models in Plaster, representing the gravid uterus, its vessels, &c. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 54 Model in Plaster, representing the escape of the Foetus into the Abdomen, in consequence of a rupture of the uterus. Presented by Dr. Conquest.