35 40 Portion of a Skull exhibiting a fracture in the orbitar plate of the frontal bone, which was occasioned by the passage of an iron rod through the orbit into the brain. 41 [ Two Patellae from the same individual. Both bones have been fractured transversely. The fractured portions having separated to a considerable distance from each other, are connected only by a thin membranous substance. 42 Section of a Patella which has been fractured into three pieces. They are united by a thick ligamentous substance. 43 Section of a Patella in which there has been a transverse fracture. The fractured surfaces are united by a thick portion of ligament about an inch in extent. 44 Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the head of the Femur, which occurred a considerable time before death. On one side of the preparation is a part of the original capsule; this has been divided extensively to shew the acetabulum, which is contracted into a narrow cavity. On the other side of the preparation is the head of the bone surrounded by a thick membrane, which is smooth on its internal surface. This membrane, now forming the capsule of the joint, is in part newly formed, and in part consists of the remains of the former capsule: it is extensively divided to give a distinct view of the head of the bone. A portion of quill is passed beneath the neck of the bone to shew the continuity between the new capsule, and that part of the old capsule which is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum. 45 Portion of the Femur exhibiting fracture extending obliquely through the basis of its neck in a line which is marked by bristles. In this instance, the synovial and periosteal coverings of the neck of the bone are uninjured, and there is, in consequence, no separation of the fractured surfaces. Case described by Mr. Stanley. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 510. 46 Elbow-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards, which occurred a con- siderable time before death. The articular surface of the humerus was completely covered by a newly formed capsule into which an incision has been made. The head of the radius and the articular surface of the ulna are also covered by new capsules. The he'acl of the radius is confined in the place which it now occupies by a fibrous cord extending from it to the humerus. 4 ( ' Knee-Joint, exhibiting the consequences of a fracture in the lower part of the Femur. The fracture extended transversely through the shaft a little above the condyles, and downwards between the condyles into the joint. The upper end of the bone is forced downwards by the ; side of the patella, and it protruded through the integuments. In this situation it has become I firmly fixed by bony matter deposited from the contiguous surfaces of the periosteum. The I protruding end of the femur perished, and its separation from the living bone has commenced. The articular surfaces of the knee-joint have become anchylosed. f 2