109 8 9 10 11 12 13 Stricture m tlic Urethra, with thickening of the musculai coat, und ulceration of the mucous membrane of the bladder. The stricture is situated about three inches anterior to the bulb. At the fundus of the bladder there is a cyst formed by the protrusion of the mucous membrane between the muscular fibres. Stricture in the Urethra, with fistulous canals leading from the bulb to the perineum. A part of the integuments is left with which the external opening of one of the fistulous canals is connected. The stricture, commencing an inch anterior to the bulb, is continued to the prostate gland. The muscular coat of the bladder is thickened. One of the ureters is dilated into a small cyst at its termination in the bladder. Stricture in the Urethra, immediately before the bulb, with thickening of the muscular coat of the bladder. The muscular fibres project upon the internal surface of the bladder. The fibrous cords continued from the ureters are considerably thickened. Urethra and Bladder. The mucous membrane of the bladder and of the urethra is thickened in its whole extent. Several small ulcerated ‘openings have formed in the spongy part of the urethra. The cut surfaces of the corpus cavernosum exhibit a sloughing appearance, in consequence of the escape of urine into it. The glans penis has been entirely removed by ulceration. Urethra and Bladder. A calculus is lodged in the urethra at the bulb. There is a stricture in the urethra immediately in front of the calculus, and behind it, the urethra is dilated. 1 he coats of the bladder are greatly thickened. One of the lateral lobes of the prostate gland is enlarged. Urethra and Bladder. There are two ulcerated openings in the urethra anterior to the bulb. One of these openings communicates with a sac formed by thickening of the cellular tissue around the urethra. The muscular coat of the bladder is greatly thickened. The cavity of the bladder was lined throughout by a thick layer of lymph, upon which, calculous matter was deposited. This lymph was but loosely connected with the mucous membrane of the bladder, from which it has been separated. Urethra and Bladder. There is stricture in the urethra immediately before the bulb. From the bulb to the bladder the mucous membrane of the urethra is ulcerated in some situations, and in others covered by fungous excrescences. The bladder is thickened and contracted, and its cavity is filled by fungous excrescences arising from its mucous membrane. Upon these fungous excrescences, calculous matter is deposited. 14 Cast of the urethra, exhibiting a circular contraction of the canal immediately behind the bulb.