46 IT 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there was a large Tubercle. The tubercle has been detached from the cavity in which it was imbedded. Sections of the Cerebrum displaying a peculiar change of structure in several situations. In some parts, the natural and diseased organization are blended together, while in others, the distinction between them is well marked. Portions of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there are tumors of different sizes. Sections have been made of some of these tumors. They are of a firm consistence. In some of them, blood forms a part of the internal structure, in others, blood is deposited upon the surface. Case described by Mr. Earle. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. iii. p. 59. Cerebellum from a young subject. Its natural structure is almost entirely removed, and in its place there is a firm whitish substance, with specks of bone dispersed through it. Portion of Cerebrum exhibiting an abscess in its substance. Portion of Cerebrum exhibiting an abscess in its anterior lobe, which communicated with the lateral ventricle of the same side. Case described by Mr. Earle. Medical and Physical Journal, vol. xxiii. p. 89. Portions of Cerebrum wdiich protruded in a case of Hernia Cerebri, and were removed during life. Case described by Mr. Stanley. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii. p. 14. Portion of Cerebrum exhibiting ulceration extending from the surface deeply into its substance. The consequence of external injury. Portions of Brain exhibiting lacerations of its substance with effusions of blood, in the two anterior, and in one of the middle lobes of the cerebrum, and in both hemispheres of the cerebellum. Choroid Plexuses in which there are small tumors, consisting of a soft substance. Choroid Plexuses in which there are small tumors, containing a soft caseous matter. Ossified Arteries, which have been removed from the brain. Portion of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there is a cyst which contained pus. I he sides of the cyst are distinct, and easily separable from the surrounding substance of the brain. Pituitary Gland considerably enlarged and softer than natural.