36 48 The Scapular end of a Clavicle exhibiting a portion of bone united to it by a distinct joint. It is uncertain whether this had been separated by fracture. 49 Portion of a Scapula exhibiting fracture of the acromion, which has united by soft fibrous matter. Portion of a Sternum fractured upon its internal surface by a bullet, which has become firmly imbedded in the substance of the bone. 51 Portion of Skull in which fracture occurred many years before death. Some portions of bone insulated by the fracture were removed at the time of the accident. Other portions were left, and have re-united by osseous matter. 52 Wrist-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the carpal ends of the radius and ulna backwards. 53 Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture in the basis of its neck, which occurred about five months before death. The periosteal and synovial coverings are torn only upon the posterior side of the neck of the bone; upon its anterior side, they are uninjured. Case described by Mr. Stanley. Medico-Chiruryical Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 508. 54- Radius and Ulna which were fractured a considerable time before death. The overlapping ends of the bones are united only by cellular tissue. They have been in part separated to shew the mode of their union. 55 The Upper Portion of a Humerus with the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. The tendon has -slipped from its groove and is confined to the adjacent part of the humerus by a membranous sheath, apparently formed by condensed cellular tissue. The tendon was attached to the glenoid cavity in its usual situation. 56 Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the humerus which occurred eighteen months before death. The head of the humerus rests against the inferior border of the scapula. The tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles are entire. A bristle is passed beneath the tendon of the latter close to its insertion. A bristle is passed beneath the tendon of the long head of the biceps which retains its attachment to the edge of the glenoid cavity. Two bristles are passed beneath the circumflex nerve which has been com- pressed by the head of the humerus. The nerve is, in consequence, flattened, and is firmly adherent to the capsule of the joint. 5? Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the Femur which occurred many years before death. The head of the femur has been thrown upwards and forwards, and is lodged in a new bony cavity