15 I g fj Portions of the Tibia and Fibula. Ulceration of the walls of the tibia has penetrated to its medullary cavity. The fibula is thickened, and the interosseous ligament is extensively ossified. B. 7 Os Frontis, exhibiting ulceration of its outer table penetrating to the frontal sinus. | B. 8 i B. 9 B. 10 B. 11 B. 12 B. 14 B. 15 ; .8. 10 !b. 17 |b. 18 Section of a Tibia exhibiting superficial ulceration, with a considerable deposition of osseous matter around the ulcerated surface. Skull-Cap, exhibiting peculiar changes of structure resulting from the venereal disease. In some situations there has been a complete destruction of the bone through both tables of the skull, and here the disease seems to have stopped, and the parts appear to have cicatrised. In other situations, the disease appears to be still in progress, the bone here exhibiting a rough surface and porous texture. Skull-Cap, exhibiting ulceration, which has penetrated both its tables. The effect of venereal disease. Portions of the Skull-Cap exhibiting superficial ulceration of its outer table, with great thick- ening of the inner table and obliteration of the diplbe. The effect of external violence. Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive ulceration of the outer table, and ulceration to a less extent of the inner table. It is presumed these changes were consequent on the formation of matter within the diplbe. Skull-Cap, exhibiting absorption of the bone in numerous distinct spots. The absorption, commencing in the inner table, has, in some situations, penetrated to the outer. It is pre- sumed the absorption of the skull was occasioned by morbid growths from the external surface of the dura mater. Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive ulceration, commencing in the outer table. Skull-Cap, exhibiting ulceration which, in some situations, has penetrated both its tables, and in others, is confined to the inner table. Skull-Cap, exhibiting extensive and superficial ulceration of the outer table. Portion of a Skull exhibiting extensive ulceration of the outer table, which has commenced in many distinct situations. It is presumed that this change was consequent on the formation of matter within the diplbe. Skull-Cap, exhibiting superficial ulceration of the outer table of the frontal bone.