39 H. 1 1 Portion of a Femur which has been fractured about two inches below the trochanter minor. Both portions of bone have been displaced so that a considerable angle, projecting forwards, is formed at the point of their union. H. ! 2 Portion of a Femur which has been fractured in its lower part. The fracture extends trans- versely through the shaft and obliquely between the condyles into the knee-joint. H. 13 Portion of a Femur fractured in its lower part. The fracture extends transversely through the shaft a little above the condyles, and downwards between the condyles into the knee-joint. H. 14 Portion of a Femur fractured transversely just above the condyles. From inflammation in the knee-joint, there has been ulceration of the articular surfaces of the condyles of the femur and head of the tibia. H. 15 Portion of a Femur fractured in its lower part. The fracture extends transversely through the shaft a little above the condyles, and is continued downwards between the condyles into the knee-joint. H. 16 Sections of a Femur which has been fractured about four inches below its upper end. The fracture has firmly united with but little displacement of the ends of the bone. H. 1? Portions of a Tibia and Fibula with the Astragalus. There has been fracture of the fibula about three inches above the malleolus, and of the tibia in the same situation. The fracture of the tibia extends downwards into the ankle-joint. The tibia and fibula are joined by bone to the astragalus. H. 18 Portions of a Tibia and Fibula. The tibia has been broken obliquely about three inches above the ankle, and the fibula in the same situation. The fractures have firmly united. H. 19 Section of a Femur which has been broken about the centre of its shaft. The two portions have overlapped considerably, and have united in this situation. The osseous matter forming the medium of their union has a cancellous texture. The medullary cavity is closed at both the fractured ends of the bone. h. 20 Section of a Femur which has been broken about the centre of its shaft. The fracture has united, and the appearances are the same as in the preceding specimen. H. '4.\ Sections of a Tibia and Fibula. There has been a compound fracture of both bones about two inches above the ankle. There is a vacancy in the tibia in the situation of the fracture, at the bottom of which there is a piece of dead bone not yet separated. The upper and lower j portions of the tibia have not approximated, but there is a firm and extensive union of the tibia to the fibula.