9 63 64 65 66 6T 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 maxillary sinuses. The septum nasi and spongy bones are also converted into a thick and very hard osseous substance. Sternum, in which there is Necrosis of the central part and whole thickness of the bone. The dead bone, not yet separated, is surrounded by newly deposited osseous substance. Tibia, exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of its external surface. The dead bone, distinguish- able by its black colour, is in progress of separation from the living bone, which is evident from the formation of a deep groove between them. The walls of the bone, around the exfoliating portion, are thickened, and of a porous texture. Tibia from a young subject, in which there has been Necrosis of the Shaft in its whole extent. The old bone is in part absorbed, and there are several distinct depositions of new bone around it. Presented by A. Sicard, esq. Bones of the Fingers which separated by exfoliation. Portions of the Tibia which separated by exfoliation. Portion of the Tibia which separated by exfoliation. It comprises the whole cylinder of the bone. Necrosis of the whole Shaft of the Tibia, exhibiting the formation of new bone around the old and dead bone. Section of the lower end of the Femur of a Child, in which an Abscess has formed. The cavity which contained the matter is situated in the cancellous texture, immediately above the epiphysis. The internal surface of this cavity was lined throughout by a membrane, a part of which is still seen. Osseous Tumor growing from the external table of the Skull. The outer part of this tumor is very dense: within, it is of a cancellous structure. Portion of the Lower Jaw of a Child, containing two Teeth, which separated by exfoliation. Portion of the Radius, in which a peculiar change of structure has taken place in its lower end. A groove between the diseased and the sound part of the bone indicates that a separa- tion of the former is taking place. An abundant deposition of osseous substance is observable on the sound bone, immediately around the diseased part. Sections of the Tibia and Fibula. Both bones are greatly thickened throughout in their walls. The interosseous ligament is ossified. A portion of the tibia near its lower end has been destroyed by ulceration, which has penetrated almost through the entire thickness of the c