10 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 bone. The ulcerated surface of the bone is covered by a thick and tough membrane. The medullary cavity, immediately above the ulcerated part, is obliterated by osseous deposition. Section of a Tibia. The walls are thickened throughout. The medullary cavity is obliterated by osseous deposition, except in one part towards the upper end of the bone. The periosteum is every where altered in its texture, but especially so at the lower part of the bone, and in the latter situation, a fleshy growth has taken place from the altered periosteum. Section of the lower part of a Tibia. This forms the other half of the section in No. 75. It exhibits the fleshy growth from the periosteum, which is seen to retain its close connexion with the bone. Portions of the Sternum and Ribs. There is a cavity in the sternum filled with a soft and white substance. This cavity was covered by a membrane, which was, apparently, the periosteum in a thickened state. Portion of a Tibia, exhibiting a peculiar change of structure which extends entirely through the bone. Both its walls and its internal part are converted into a soft and crumbling matter, of a whitish colour. The morbid alteration does not extend quite to the articular end of the bone. The integuments, in the extent to which they correspond with the diseased bone, have also undergone complete alteration of structure. There is a division in the upper part of the diseased bone; it is uncertain whether this was produced by the natural process of separation, or by accident. Portion of the Skull which exfoliated after the application of the trephine. Portion of the Tibia from a compound fracture, illustrating the process of Exfoliation. The end of the bone has perished. A deep and irregular groove has formed immediately around the dead bone, and a considerable deposition of osseous matter has taken place upon the contiguous living bone. Portion of the Tibia from a compound fracture. The appearances are the same as in the preceding specimen. Sections of the lower part of a Tibia, exhibiting a large cavity within the cancellous texture. This cavity is lined by a soft and vascular membrane, and it contained a serous fluid. There is an aperture in the cavity, which leads to the external surface of the bone. Section of the upper part of the Tibia, and of a Tumor which has formed around it. This tumor consists partly of a brown fibrous substance, and partly of coagulated blood. A thin crust of the walls of the bone surrounds the tumor. Upon the upper part of the tumor is an excavation which lodged one of the condyles of the femur. The diseased structure may be traced to the cancellous texture of the tibia, in which it seems to have originated.