61 IT Contraction of the Aorta and obliteration of the Vena Cava Inferior. Both vessels are imbedded in a mass of enlarged absorbed glands. The aorta is thickened, and its cavity is contracted just above its division into the iliac arteries. The vena cava, to the extent of three inches above the iliac veins, is completely filled by lymph, which is adherent to its inner membrane. 18 19 i 20 21 i 99 Aneurism of the Arteria Innominata pressing upon the trachea. The sac contains laminated coagulum, the deposition of which has extended into the origin of the right carotid artery, so as completely to close it. Case described by Mr. Lawrence. Medico-Chiruryical Transactions, vol. vi. 227. Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The coats of the vein are generally thickened, and in one situation are ulcerated. Lymph is deposited upon the inner membrane of the vein, and completely fills its cavity to some distance above the amputated extremity. A conical clot fills the cavity of the artery at its amputated extremity, and to some distance above it. Arch of the Aorta, from which two Aneurisms have arisen. The sacs are separated by a portion of the artery about half an inch in extent, above which, they communicate by an aperture into which a quill is passed. Laminated coagulum lines both sacs. 1 he internal surface of the aorta exhibits a tuberculated appearance from deposition between its coats. Presented by James Gillman, Esq. Aneurism of the left Axillary Artery, for the cure of which the subclavian artery has been tied. The upper part of the preparation consists of the left subclavian artery and the arch of the aorta. By tracing the subclavian artery downwards, the situation where it has been tied will be recognised. On the side of the ligature towards the heart, the artery is pervious to its extremity, which was closed only by a small coagulum. Between this coagulum and the sides of the vessel is an aperture into which a bristle is passed. Through this aperture, blood had passed from the artery to the outward wound. At a short distance above the situation of the ligature, several large branches arise. The portion of artery between the situation of the ligature and the aneurismal sac is completely closed by coagulum. The aneurismal sac is in part filled by laminated coagulum. Below the sac, is the remaining part of the axillary, with the commencement of the brachial artery. The axillary artery is here quite pervious to its connexion with the sac, and a large branch arises from it which divides into the infra-scapular and circumflex arteries. The axil lary vein is connected with the sac, and is pervious. The coats of the subclavian artery above the situation of the ligature were so brittle that they yielded to the slightest force. Case described by Mr. Charles Mayo. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xii. p. 12. Deposition of Lymph producing the obliteration of the trunk of the Femoral Artery and of the commencement of the Profunda.