44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 7 cancelli. In some situations ulceration has taken place on the exterior of the diseased bone. The Epiphyses are separated from the rest of the bone. The articular cartilage is in some parts absorbed. Section of a Femur. The other portion of the bone is described in No. 43. Os Innominatum, exhibiting a peculiar alteration of structure. The natural texture of the bone is converted throughout into a peculiar substance, which in some situations, has a granulated, and in others, a fibrous appearance. In the upper part of the specimen, the walls of the bone are separated, to display the peculiar fibrous substance which is between them. Section of the lower part of a Femur, and of a Medullary Tumor surrounding it. The Tumor is covered by the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; and a part of it is covered by the cartilage which belonged to the end of the femur. The diseased structure may be traced to the cancellous and medullary texture of the femur, in which it seems to have originated. Sections of the Head, Neck, and Shaft of a Femur, exhibiting suppuration in the cancellous and medullary texture. The substance of the bone has undergone no further alteration than the secretion of pus into it, and an increase of its vascularity. Tibia, exhibiting on its external surface a mottled appearance, from irregular effusions of blood into its substance. The three preceding specimens were taken from the same individual. The thigh was amputated, and it was believed that the suppuration in the medullary texture of the upper part of the femur was consequent on the operation. Sections of a Humerus, and of a Medullary Tumor which has arisen from it. In one of the sections, a small portion of the diseased structure, distinct from the general mass, has protruded through the walls of the bone. In the other section, the morbid structure is covered by the articular cartilage which belonged to the head of the bone. Section of a Tibia, exhibiting a deposition of Lymph in the medullary cavity. Upon the external surface of the bone, in some situations, there is ulceration; in others, there are irregular depositions of osseous matter. Section of a Tibia, exhibiting a diseased state of the medulla, with partial obliteration of the medullary cavity by bone. On the external surface of the tibia two distinct processes are observed, viz. ulceration in some parts, and deposition of bony matter in others. At the lower end of the tibia are two small portions of bone, dead, and undergoing exfoliation.