113 7 A Polypus Uteri which was removed by ligature. The polypus presents on that side which was attached to the uterus, an irregular surface, resulting from the process of its separation. A section of the polypus is made to shew its internal structure, which is firm and fleshy throughout. 8 Ovary enlarged, and formed into a cyst containing a mass of fat mixed with hair. 9 Fallopian Tube closed at its extremity, and dilated into a sac, which is filled by a transparent watery fluid. A bristle is passed from the cavity of the uterus into the dilated portion of the tube. 10 Section of the Uterus, shewing a firm fleshy tumor imbedded in its substance. The uterus is injected minutely; none of the injection has penetrated the morbid growth. 11 Section of a Tumor imbedded in the substance of the uterus; it consists of a firm fleshy structure, intersected by white bands. 12 Fallopian Tube closed at its extremity, and dilated into a sac, which is filled by a watery fluid. 13 Uterus, exhibiting the growth of firm fleshy tumors from its internal surface; one of these tumors was attached by a very thin pedicle which has given way, hence it has fallen to the bottom of the bottle. 14 Uterus, exhibiting the growth of a firm fleshy tumor from its internal surface. The tumor has a narrow neck, and its broader part extends into the vagina. 15 Uterus, exhibiting the growth of a large polypus from its internal surface. The polypus extends into the vagina. Ulceration has taken place on its most depending part. 16 Uterus, exhibiting the growth of a soft fungous excrescence from the whole of its internal surface, with ulceration extending from the uterus into the bladder. IT Uterus, containing a large tumor which has grown from its internal surface at the fundus, and has projected into the vagina. Smaller tumors have formed, some upon the surface, and others in the substance of the uterus. The section of the large tumor shews that it consists of a firm fleshy substance. A portion of the fundus of the uterus, drawn downwards by the weight of the tumor, is elongated, so as to form a narrow pedicle. The uterus has been injected. Some of the injection has penetrated the tumors. 18 Vagina and Rectum, with the external parts of generation. The vagina, at the extremity which was connected with the uterus, presents in its whole circumference, a flocculent Q