82 35 36 3T 38 39 40 41 43 44 Inguinal Hernia. The coverings of the sac are thickened and consolidated by inflammation. The internal surface of the sac is rough in consequence of the deposition of lymph upon it. Two Hernise in the Linea Alba, above the umbilicus. The larger sac contains omentum. Below the smaller sac, is a hole in the linea alba, through which fat is protruded. Congenital Hernia. Its sac is divided into two portions, which communicate by a large oval aperture. Congenital Hernia from an adult, upon whom the operation had been performed. The testicle and the hernial sac not having passed through the opening in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle are situated within the inguinal canal. The upper border of the mouth of the sac was divided for the removal of stricture upon the intestine, which was protruded through it. Inguinal Hernia, combined with Hydrocele. Several folds of intestine are firmly adherent to each other and to the hernial sac. The enlarged tunica vaginalis testis is situated in front of the hernia. Bristles are passed beneath the spermatic vessels, which have become placed at a little distance from each other. Inguinal Hernia, upon which the operation has been performed. Between the peritoneum and the abdominal muscles, and immediately above the mouth of the sac, there is a cavity in which was found a portion of the intestine that had been strangulated. It appeared that this portion of intestine had been pushed from the hernial sac, into the cellular tissue between the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. Femoral Hernia. The contents of the sac are, omentum, with part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon and a portion of small intestine. Portion of Small Intestine from an inguinal hernia, exhibiting the impression of the stricture upon its coats. Portion of Small Intestine from a femoral hernia, exhibiting the effects of strangulation upon a part of its circumference. There are sphacelated openings in the portion of intestine, which was strangulated. Around these openings, the coats of the intestine are very soft and readily separable. Portion of Small Intestine from a femoral hernia, exhibiting the effects of strangulation. In the upper part of the preparation, the impression of the stricture may be recognised by the thinning of the coats of the gut, and at one point, by the ulceration of them. The portion of intestine which was strangulated is distinguished by its dark colour and disorganized state.