34 3] 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 Portion of a Femur exhibiting fracture in that part of its neck which is covered by synovial membrane. The direction of the fracture is such that the surface of the bone exhibits, on the one side, an eminence, and on the other, a corresponding cavity. The periosteum and the synovial membrane covering the neck are torn only in one half of its circumference. Upon the other half, the membranes are entire, and still connect the two parts of the bone. Hip-Joint, exhibiting fracture of the neck of the Femur, which occurred many years before death. The neck of the bone is absorbed. Bristles are passed beneath three thick fibrous bands which extend from the head of the bone to the capsule. The capsule is generally thickened by a deposition of lymph upon its internal surface. Hip-Joint, in which a dislocation of the head of the Femur upon the ischiatic notch occurred about three weeks before death. The ligamentum teres has been torn across its middle; no union of it has taken place. The cartilage covering the head of the bone is in part absorbed. The opening in the capsule through which the head of the bone escaped was situated at the posterior part of the joint. Only a small part of this opening is visible, the larger part of it being closed by the union of the torn edges of the capsule. Sections of the Head and Neck of the Femur, from an aged female. On the surface of each section, a white line is visible, giving the appearance of a fracture which has united. Sections of the Head and Neck of the Femur. On the surface of each section, a white line is visible, giving the appearance of a fracture which has united. The two preceding specimens are taken from the same individual. Hip-Joint, exhibiting fracture of the neck of the Femur. The fracture extends transversely across the base of the neck. The capsule is much thickened. Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the head of the Femur with elongation of the capsule. The capsule, which was entire, has been laid open to shew that the head and neck of the femur are still contained within it. The cavity of the acetabulum has almost disappeared. The ligamentum teres is destroyed, and a small portion of the head of the bone has been absorbed. Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the head of the Femur, of recent occurrence. The ligamentum teres is detached from the head of the bone. The capsule is extensively lacerated at the inner side and lower part of the joint. The obturator interims muscle is extensively lacerated. Patella, exhibiting a separate piece of bone connected with its lateral border. It is not known whether this was the result of malformation or of accident.