115 29 Portion of the Cyst of the ovary described No. 27, exhibiting the growth of an adipose tumor from its internal surface. The exterior of this tumor is formed by a thick membrane closely resembling skin. From this membrane, and from the cyst itself, numerous hairs have originated. These hairs seemed to possess bulbs. 30 31 32 Fallopian Tubes with the Ovaries, taken from the same individual. A membranous cyst, which contained a transparent fluid, is connected with each Fallopian tube, near its fimbriated extremity. A bristle is passed through each tube to shew that it does not communicate with the cyst. Uterus and Vagina, exhibiting the condition of these parts in the sixth week after they had been lacerated during parturition. The laceration extends through the posterior side of the vagina and the neck of the uterus. The edges of the opening exhibit no appearance of granulation. A band of lymph extends from the vagina to the rectum. Case of laceration of the Uterus described by Mr. Birch. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 357. Mass of Membranous Vesicles, generally considered to be Hydatids, expelled from the Uterus. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 33 The same as No. 32. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 34 Uterus and Vagina, exhibiting a rupture of the latter which occurred in parturition. The vagina is torn in half of its circumference, and close to its connexion with the uterus. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 35 Uterus enveloped by a diseased mass, which in some situations consists of distinct tumors of a soft texture. Ulceration has occurred in the neck of the uterus and in the contiguous part of the vagina. Presented by Dr. Conquest. 36 Uterus and Vagina, exhibiting the complete destruction of their mucous lining by ulceration, which was considered to be malignant. ' Presented by Dr. Conquest. 3T Uterus, exhibiting the complete destruction of its cervix and of part of the vagina by ulceration, which was considered to be malignant. Presented by Dr. Conquest. Q 2