23 20 i Hip-Joint, the acetabulum of which is greatly enlarged and altered in its form. The head of I the femur is enlarged and adapted in its form to the acetabulum. The capsule of the joint was entire, but considerably thickened. 2! Hip-Joint, in which the head and neck of the femur have been completely absorbed. The walls of the acetabulum have been also absorbed. The surfaces of the femur, and of the os innomina- | turn, which were in contact, have become adapted to each other, and covered by cartilaginous | substance, so as to form a sort of joint. A thick capsule extended around this newly formed joint. These changes were consequent on disease. 22 Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting ulceration of the articular cartilage, with change of structure in the capsule. The capsule is generally thickened, and there are numerous small pendulous pro- cesses of fat, with two larger masses of bone attached to its internal surface. : 23 Bones of the Wrist, exhibiting the effects of Inflammation in the whole of the carpal and metacarpal joints. The articular surfaces of the several bones are extensively ulcerated, and there is a very abundant deposition of osseous matter around the ulcerated surfaces. 24 Knee-Joint, exhibiting a peculiar change of structure in the synovial membrane. The capsule has been extensively opened and raised for the purpose of exposing the cavity of the joint. The internal surface of the synovial membrane is granulated. The membrane has everywhere become very thick, especially so at the upper and front part of the joint, where its thickness is not less than two inches. The substance of the thickened synovial membrane is so firm, as to be almost of a gristly texture. That part of the membrane opposed to the articular cartilage j of the femur, was adherent to it. The whole of the soft parts exterior to the capsule have been j carefully removed, so that nothing else but the capsule is left around the joint. 25 Portion of the Spine, with Curvature. The disease is situated m the dorsal vertebra: it consists in a change of structure and ulceration of their bodies. A soft caseous matter is deposited around the diseased bone. This deposit is so abundant in front, and at the side of the spine, as to elevate the pleura costalis in the form of a tumor within the chest. A small piece of bone is separated from the rest by ulceration, and imbedded in the caseous matter ! The medulla spinalis, for the space of an inch and a half, is greatly compressed in the situation of the curvature. 26 Portion of the Spine, exhibiting disease in three of the bodies of the dorsal vertebras, which is in progress towards its cure. The disease consists in an alteration of colour in the bones which still preserve their natural hardness. The diseased bone is in progress of removal by absorption; the upper and lower vertebra are approximating and beginning to be anchylosed bv bony matter deposited upon their anterior parts. The medulla spinalis has not suffered pressure.