31 32 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 Portion of Cerebrum through which a bullet has passed. A quill is introduced into the tract of the bullet. At one extremity, this tract terminates in a rounded cavity, wherein the bullet was lodged. Specimen of Hernia Cerebri, consisting of the protrusion of the substance of the brain through an aperture in the skull. It exhibits a vertical section of the protrusion and of that part of the brain from which it has arisen. In the centre of the protrusion, the vessels have given way, and particles of blood are here consequently intermixed with the cerebral substance. The portion of the skull surrounding the base of the tumor, and the membranes of the brain, were included in the section, for the purpose of shewing how the protrusion has taken place through the open- ings formed by ulceration, in the dura and pia mater, and through the aperture in the bone. Case described by Mr. Stanley. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii. p. 22. Section of the Hernia Cerebri taken from the preceding specimen. The deep groove which intervenes between the protruded mass and the portion of brain from which it has arisen, was occupied by the bone and by the membranes of the brain which have been completely removed. Portions of Cerebrum which protruded in a case of Hernia Cerebri, and were removed during life. Case described by Mr. Stanley. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii. p. 18. Portion of Dura Mater which is converted into bone to a considerable extent, on each side of the falx cerebri. Portion of Cerebrum exhibiting ulceration, which, commencing in the membranes, has extended into its substance. The consequence of external injury. Portion of Cerebrum exhibiting a bony tumor, which, originating in the pia mater, has pe- netrated between the convolutions into the substance of the brain. A large Clot of Blood adhering to the internal surface of the Dura Mater which covered the upper part of one of the hemispheres of the Cerebrum. The consequence of external injury. A large Clot of Blood effused between the Dura Mater and the lateral part of the Skull. It was ascertained that the Arteria Meningea Media had been ruptured by external violence. Portions ot Brain in the substance of which there are several Tumors of a scrofulous nature. One of these tumors occupies the whole internal part of the tuber annulare. From a young subject.