10? 7 Prostate Gland, exhibiting an enlargement of its middle lobe in the form of a round tumor projecting into the bladder immediately behind the orifice of the urethra. 8 Prostate Gland, exhibiting an enlargement of its lateral and middle lobes with thickening of the bladder. The enlarged middle lobe of the prostate forms a ridge across the neck of the bladder, through which a passage has been formed by a catheter. Presented by R. S. Eyles, esq. 9 Prostate Gland, enlarged, with the growth of tumors from it which projected into the bladder. There was a calculus in the bladder which was removed by the lateral operation a fortnight before death, and in the progress of the operation, one of the tumors arising from the prostate was completely detached. This tumor is suspended in the lower part of the bottle. 10 Prostate Gland, exhibiting two deep cavities in its substance formed by ulceration, and communicating with the urethra. Urinary calculi have formed in these cavities. 1 1 Prostate Gland, greatly enlarged, with mortification of the bladder at its fundus, in conse- quence of retention of urine. Fungous excrescences arising from the prostate, project into the cavity of the bladder. A passage has been formed through the prostate by a catheter. The muscular coat of the bladder is thickened, and its mucous membrane is ulcerated. At the upper and back part of the bladder is a large irregular aperture formed by the sloughing of its coats, and through which the urine escaped into the abdomen. The rectum is very much curved in its progress beneath the enlarged prostate. 1^ Prostate Gland, exhibiting an enlargement of its lateral and middle lobes. The enlarged middle lobe forms a round tumor projecting into the cavity of the bladder. Upon the surface of this tumor there is ulceration. Several small cysts apparently formed by the protrusion of the mucous membrane between the muscular fibres, communicate with the cavity of the bladder. 13 Prostate Gland enlarged, with the growth of fungous excrescences from the mucous membrane of the bladder, around the orifices of the ureters. 14 Two specimens of vesiculee seminales converted into a firm fleshy substance. 1 5 Bladder, with a cyst attached to its posterior part which contained hydatids. The vesiculee seminales and vasa deferentia are closely connected wdth the cyst. One vas deferens communicates with the cyst by two orifices into which a bristle is passed. A portion of this vas deferens is wanting, hence it appeared that the cyst might have originated in the dilatation of the deficient portion of the tube. The sides of the cyst are of a cartilaginous texture. The hydatids found within it are at the bottom of the bottle. p 2