9 ]0 11 12 1.3 14 15 16 IT 18 19 22 Patella, exhibiting the absorption of its cartilage in a peculiar manner. Os Calcis and Astragalus, the articular surfaces of which are whitened by a deposition of earthy matter upon them, consisting principally of carbonate of lime. Patella, the cartilage of which is whitened by the deposition of earthy matter upon it. From the same individual as the preceding specimen. Elbow-Joint, exhibiting a peculiar change of structure in the synovial membrane; it is converted into a light brown substance, of a firm texture, about half or three quarters of an inch in thickness, and with white lines running through it in various directions. The morbid change terminates at the margins of the articular cartilages. Around the neck of the radius, the thickened synovial membrane forms a fold projecting into the cavity of the joint. Anchylosis of the Bones of the Carpus, with Necrosis of the lower end of the Radius. A considerable portion of the end of the radius has died, and is in progress of exfoliation. The cartilage between the ulna and the carpus is completely destroyed. The several bones of the carpus have had their cartilaginous surfaces destroyed by ulceration, and anchylosis has taken place between them. Hip-Joint, exhibiting the effects of Inflammation. The cartilage has completely separated, both from the head of the femur and from the acetabulum. Some remnants of the separated cartilage are loose in the cavity of the joint. The ligamentum teres is destroyed. The exposed surfaces of the bones are in a state of ulceration. The cavity of the acetabulum is much widened by ulceration of the bone. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting the absorption of a great part of the head of the bone. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting the absorption of a part of the head, and the whole of the neck of the bone. A portion of the head remains, but it is completely detached. Hip-Joint, exhibiting the effects of Inflammation. The capsule and the cartilage covering the head of the femur are completely destroyed by ulceration; the head of the bone is dislocated from the acetabulum, and is drawn upwards and backwards upon the dorsum of the ilium. Hip-Joint, exhibiting the complete removal of the acetabulum, and of the head and neck of the femur, by ulceration. Hip-Joint, in which the articular cartilage covering the acetabulum and head of the bone is com- pletely destroyed. The acetabulum is enlarged by ulceration of the bone. The ligamentum teres is in great part destroyed.