33 The left ventricle and aorta are perfect. The aorta is large between its origin and the ductus arteriosus. 32 Heart of a child about three years of age. The auricles are separated only by a thin round cord. The septum between the ventricles is completely wanting. The whole interior of the heart is consequently a single cavity. The sides of the ventricles are of equal thickness. The pulmonary artery is contracted at its origin, and it has no valves. The mitral valve is wanting. The ductus arteriosus is open. 33 Heart of an individual about sixteen years of age. Besides the right and left ventricles, a third smaller ventricle is seen on the anterior side of the heart. This third ventricle commu- nicates by two openings with the right ventricle ; into one of these openings a piece of bougie is introduced. The pulmonary artery arises from the third ventricle. The origin of the aorta is placed directly over the septum dividing the right from the left ventricle, so that its orifice communicates with both cavities. The sides and the fleshy columns in the right ventricle are thicker than in the left. The ductus arteriosus is closed. 34 Heart of an individual about twenty-eight years of age. The origin of the aorta is placed directly over the septum ventriculorum, so as to communicate equally with both ventricles. The pulmonary artery communicates at its origin with the right ventricle by an opening that will just admit the passage of two portions of straw. Neither the ductus arteriosus nor foramen ovale are left, so that it could not be ascertained whether they were pervious. 35 Heart of an Adult. The aorta arises directly over the septum ventriculorum so as to commu- nicate equally with both ventricles. The origin of the pulmonary artery is directly over the left ventricle. The foramen ovale is pervious. The ductus arteriosus is closed. 36 Heart of a child about ten years of age. The two auricles form but one cavity, which communicates only with the left ventricle. The right ventricle forms an exceedingly small cavity communicating with the left ventricle through an aperture in the septum. The left ventricle has a very large cavity and thick sides. It could not be ascertained whether the ductus arteriosus was pervious. 37 38 39 Portion of an Aorta, in which there are only two semilunar valves. Portion of small intestine, from which a diverticulum is continued. Skull of an individual twenty-two years of age, who was born an idiot. The texture of the bones is natural. The cranium is remarkably small. The face is of its usual dimensions. F