2 The formation of the new bone has not extended the whole length of the Femur, a consider- able space remains at the lower part of the thigh, where the new bone has not yet formed; the new bone is consequently connected with the condyles only by soft matter. The internal surface of the new bone exhibits great vascularity; the external surface is rough and irregular, and not provided with distinct periosteum; it has a condensed cellular tissue attached to it, a portion of which has been turned back at the upper part. The surface at the lower end of the femur from which the dead bone has been separated, is covered with granulations. The cartilage is almost completely removed from the lower end of the femur, and its absorption has taken place in a peculiar manner. Amputation of the thigh was, in this instance, performed in such a situation, that the saw passed through the trochanter major. Case of James Macdonnel, in a paper by Mr. Lawrence, on tying arteries. Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vi. p. 174. , 6 Necrosis of the Tibia. The body of the bone has died. The formation of the new and ab- sorption of the old bone are taking place simultaneously. What remains of the old bone is situated in the middle of the new, and may be distinguished by its peculiar whiteness. Be- tween the new and the old bone is a considerable quantity of soft vascular matter. 7 Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting a portion of the walls dead, and in the progress of exfoliation. The dead bone is distinguishable from the living by its whiter colour; its separation is almost complete. Between the dead and the living bone a space intervenes, which is filled by soft and vascular substance. New bony matter is heaped upon the living bone, around the dead bone. The periosteum has been in part detached from the tibia, opposite the exfoliating portion, in order to shew that the new osseous matter is distinctly beneath this membrane. The changes just described succeeded to the cauterization of the external surface of the bone. Experiment by Mr. Stanley. 8 Tibia of a Dog from which a portion of the walls has entirely exfoliated. What remains of the dead bone is seen at the bottom of the bottle. The surface from which the dead bone has separated, is very vascular. New bone is deposited in considerable quantity around the exfoliating portion. This preparation was made in the same manner as No. 7. Experiment by Mr. Stanley. ; 9 Tibia of a Dog, in which the shaft of the bone has died. The dead bone is in great part ab- sorbed, and a new bone is in progress of formation around it. The periosteum which belonged to the old bone covers the new bone. Many fistulous holes extend through the walls of the new bone into the cavity which contained the old bone. This cavity is lined by very vascular granulations. The remains of the old bone are at the bottom of the bottle. This preparation was made artificially. The walls of the bone were perforated, and the medulla destroyed. The bone was laid bare for that purpose at the part where the new bone is still incomplete. Experiment by Mr. Stanley.