81 displayed. The fascia superficialis is separated from the fascia propria. The fascia propria is also raised; it is thick and its internal surface is cellular. Within the fascia propria, the remains of the sac will be recognised. The incision of the stricture has been made through Gimbernat’s ligament obliquely upwards and inwards. 27 Femoral Hernia, in which the operation has been performed. The incision of the stricture has been continued from the anterior part of the sac directly upwards. The epigastric vessels are situated about half an inch from the outer side of the mouth of the sac. 28 Femoral Hernia. The coverings of the sac are displayed. The fascia superficialis and fascia propria will be recognised, and within the latter, is the sac itself, into which a portion of quill is passed. The mouth of the sac will but just admit a full-sized urethra bougie. The epigastric vessels are situated about three quarters of an inch distant from the outer side of the mouth of the sac. 29 Two Inguinal Hernias. On the right side, the hernia having passed from the abdomen through the fascia transversalis, has descended into the scrotum. The epigastric artery is close to the inner margin of the mouth of the sac, and the spermatic cord is behind the sac. On the left side, the hernia has passed from the abdomen directly through the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The epigastric artery is near the outer margin of the mouth of the sac. The spermatic cord is between the sac and the outer column of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. The sac of this hernia is withdrawn from the covering of the fascia transversalis, which was protruded before it. - 30 Inguinal Hernia, which passed from the abdomen directly through the opening in the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle. The spermatic cord is on the outer side of the sac. The fascia transversalis is protruded before the sac. Immediately below the mouth of the sac, the peritoneum lining the abdominal muscles is dilated into a wide pouch. 31 Four Hernise, an inguinal and a femoral on each side. The spermatic cord is situated on the outer side of each inguinal hernia. The fascia transversalis protruded before the right inguinal hernia is divided, and in part separated from the sac. 32 Inguinal Hernia. A portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, displaced from its natural situation, is closely connected by peritoneum with the mouth of the sac. 33 Umbilical Hernia, exhibiting an irregular absorption of its peritoneal sac, by which apertures of different sizes are formed in it. 34 Portion of the Abdominal Muscles, exhibiting a large circular opening in the linea alba, through which an umbilical hernia was protruded. M