83 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 Inguinal Hernia of the left side, shewing the relation of the epigastric artery to the mouth of the sac. The sac is laid open and separated from its immediate coverings. Umbilical Hernia containing omentum. The omentum is firmly adherent to the sac, and in one situation, a part of the sac is absorbed so that the omentum is here in contact with the skin. The Sac of an Inguinal Hernia. The peritoneum is slightly thickened throughout. Femoral Hernia, in the male, which has been dissected with a view to display the peculiar form of the tumor. Portion of Omentum, in which, by the adhesion of its contiguous surfaces, an aperture is formed through which a finger could be readily passed. Inguinal Hernia combined with Hydrocele. The enlarged tunica vaginalis is situated in front of the hernia; it will be recognised by the projection of the testicle within its lower part. The hernial sac is large; it communicated with the abdomen by a wide orifice, and there is a portion of omentum adherent to it. Between the hernial sac and the enlarged tunica vaginalis, is a small and distinct sac, which had no communication with the abdomen. Femoral Hernia, upon which the operation has been performed. A division of Gimbernat’s ligament has been made horizontally inwards and close to the os pubis. Femoral Hernia. A small peritoneal sac has been protruded between the fibres of Gimbernat’s ligament. A bristle is passed beneath a band of Gimbernat’s ligament, intervening between the peritoneal sac and the space through which the femoral hernia usually passes. Portion of Small Intestine, from which a Diverticulum is continued. The diverticulum is adherent at its extremity, to the contiguous part of the mesentery. A circular orifice will be recognised between the diverticulum and the opposite surface of the mesentery. Within this orifice, a portion of intestine became strangulated. Presented by E. P. Pridham, esq. Congenital Hernia. The preparation consists of the testicles from an adult, in whom they had remained within the inguinal canal. Both the glands are considerably smaller than natural, and with one of them, a peritoneal sac is connected. Two Femoral Hernise, in the male, exhibiting different relations of the obturator artery to the mouth of the hernial sac. Both the obturator arteries arise by common trunks with the epigas- tric arteries. On one side, the obturator artery descends to the obturator foramen, close to the outer margin of the mouth of the sac. On the other side, the obturator artery, in its course to the obturator foramen, turns around the front and inner margin of the mouth of the sac. m 2