no 15 Urethra and Bladder. There is stricture in the urethra to the extent of an inch immediately before the bulb. The muscular coat of the bladder is greatly thickened. 1 6 Urethra and Bladder. There is stricture in the urethra at the bulb. The mucous membrane has ulcerated in the situation of the stricture. The muscular coat of the bladder is greatly thickened. The mucous membrane is thickened and formed into irregular eminences which are covered by calculous matter. Ulceration has taken place through the coats of the bladder at its lower and back part. Connected with the outside and back part of the bladder, there is a large irregular cavity resulting from the effusion of urine into the cellular tissue between the bladder and the rectum. 17 Urethra and Bladder. There has been sloughing of the urethra to the extent that five inches of the canal with the corpus spongiosum are completely destroyed. The muscular coat of the bladder is greatly thickened. A large cyst is connected with the front of the bladder which seems to have been formed by the protrusion of the mucous membrane between the muscular fibres. 18 Urethra with a portion of the bladder. The mucous membrane of the urethra is thickened in its whole extent. About two inches from its external orifice, the urethra is considerably contracted. From this contraction, a passage formed by a catheter, is continued along the outer side of the urethra, and through the prostate gland into the bladder. 19 Urethra and Bladder. There is a stricture in the urethra about an inch anterior to the bulb. The mucous membrane has been separated from the corpus spongiosum in the situation of the stricture to shew that it is here considerably thickened. The muscular coat of the bladder is thickened and the ureters are dilated. 20 Urethra, in which there is a stricture about an inch anterior to the bulb. The mucous membrane is considerably thickened in the situation of the stricture. A bristle is introduced into a passage, formed by a catheter, which extends from the stricture along the outer side of the urethra. 21 Urethra, in which there is a stricture about two inches and a half from the external orifice. Behind the stricture, the urethra in the rest of its extent to the bladder is greatly dilated and its sides are thickened. There are several small sacs close to the urethra. Two of these communicate with the canal near the prostate. 22 Urethra, the mucous membrane of which is thickened and of a tendinous structure. There are two strictures, one immediately before the bulb, the other about two inches from the external orifice.