65 are thickened. On one side of the preparation is the arteria innominata, with the left carotid artery; on the other side, is the left subclavian artery obliterated at its origin. An incision is made through the middle of the obliterated artery, to shew the lymph which fills it. At one extremity of the preparation, there is a wide irregular aperture in the sac, caused by its rupture. 42 Aneurism at the commencement of the Aorta. Two small pouches filled by lymph are seen behind two of the semilunar valves. The internal membrane of the artery is thickened. 43 Aneurism arising from the Carotid Artery at the point of its division. The sac is filled by layers of lymph loosely connected together. A portion of straw is passed through the opening of communication between the sac and the artery. Below the part where the coats of the artery have given way, its cavity is diminished by the pressure of the aneurism. The external and internal carotid arteries are pervious. The nervus vagus is exposed above and below the aneurism, and in the intermediate space, the nerve seems to be lost in the sac. 44 Portion of the Carotid Artery, with its division into the external and internal branches. Just above the division, the cavity of the internal carotid is slightly dilated, and its coats are thickened by the deposition of soft matter between them. 45 Portion of the Abdominal Aorta, in the coats of which there is a deposition of bony matter, with ulceration. In one situation, the ulceration has extended through the two inner coats of the artery to its outer cellular coat, which is dilated into a small pouch. 46 47 48 Aneurism arising from the Splenic Artery. Bony matter is deposited in the coats of the sac. Dilatation of the Popliteal Artery, with thickening of its internal coat. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta, which has extended backwards through the vertebrae and ribs, and forms a large sac exteriorly. 49 Anterior Tibial Artery, in which there is a small lacerated aperture completely penetrating its coats. From a case of compound fracture. 50 Aneurism of the Renal Artery. Bony matter is deposited in the coats of the sac. 51 | Aneurism arising from the Aorta immediately above one of the semilunar valves. The sac, which is about the size of a walnut, has extended between the pulmonary artery and the aorta. A portion of quill is introduced into the lacerated opening by which the sac burst into the pericardium. K