29 a. 41 g. 42 g. 43 g. 44 g. 45 g. 46 g. 4? g. 48 g. 49 g. 50 g. 51 g. 52 Basis of the Skull and the Atlas. The atlas is anchylosed to the occipital bone, and is dis- placed forwards and to one side, so that its posterior part projecting within the foramen magnum, considerably diminishes the size of the aperture. It is uncertain whether these changes were the effect of accident or disease. Four Dorsal Vertebrae and three Ribs. The vertebrae are united by portions of bone extending between the anterior surfaces of their bodies. The heads of the ribs are united to the vertebrae by bone. Two Lumbar Vertebrae which are extensively united by osseous matter deposited upon the anterior surfaces of their bodies. Section of the Spine in which there has been destruction by disease of the bodies of six of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. There is a firm bony union of the vertebrae above and below the seat of the disease. The canal which contained the medulla spinalis is simply altered in its direction without a lessening of its diameter. Three Dorsal Vertebrae united by portions of bone extending between the anterior surfaces of their bodies. Portion of the Spine exhibiting the effects of disease in the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. The bodies of two of these vertebrae are completely destroyed, and two others are in progress of removal. Portion of the Spine exhibiting disease in the bodies of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. Two vertebrae are destroyed, and three others are in progress of removal. The diseased bone is rough and porous, but retains its natural firmness. Portion of the Spine exhibiting a lateral curve of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. The aorta and the vena azygos have been injected to shew the change in their direction, corresponding with the altered form of the spine. Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis, from a female. There is a lateral curve of the dorsal and lumbar portions of the spine. The thorax projecting anteriorly, is very much flattened at its sides. The cavity of the pelvis preserves its natural dimensions. Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis. The spine, in its dorsal region, is curved with the convexity back- wards. The thorax projecting anteriorly, is flattened at its sides. The pelvis is unaltered. Spine, from an aged subject, which, in its whole extent, is curved with the convexity back- wards. Spine and Pelvis from a young subject. The spine exhibits three distinct lateral curves. The cavity of the pelvis, at its inferior aperture, is diminished to the extent that a space of only half an inch intervenes between the tuberosities of the ischia.