19 E. 1 E. 9 E. 3 I i E. 4 E. 5 E. 6 E. 7 j E. 8 E. 9 E. 10 BONES FROM WHICH TUMORS HAVE ARISEN. Section of a Skull exhibiting an ivory-like Tumor growing from the outer table of the frontal bone, just above the external angular process. Section of a Clavicle, from the scapular end of which, a large bony Tumor has arisen. The section of the tumor shews that it has a cancellous structure throughout. The upper part of a Femur exhibiting a bony process of a pyramidal form and about three inches in length, continued from the trochanter minor. To the extremity of this bony process the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles is attached. The upper part of a Femur exhibiting a bony process about three inches in length, which was connected with the trochanter minor by ligamentous substance. Humerus, exhibiting a bony Tumor, with a broad base, growing from the side of its shaft. Femur, exhibiting a bony Tumor, with a broad base, growing from the outer side of its shaft. Portions of Bone which were found in the muscles close to the Femur E. 6. Humerus, exhibiting a bony Tumor, growing from the front and upper part of its shaft. The tumor is much narrower at the point of its connexion with the shaft than elsewhere. Femur, from the whole circumference of which a Tumor of very large size has arisen. It extends from the condyles to nearly the upper end of the bone. The small portions of the femur remaining above and below the tumor are sound. What may be the structure of that part of the bone from which the tumor has arisen cannot be stated, as no section has been made of it. The tumor itself consists of a mixture of earthy and animal matter, the former being deposited in very tine fibres, which are vai’iously arranged. Sections of a Femur and of the Os Innominatum, from which a Tumor of large size has arisen. The tumor has arisen principally from the Femur. It consists throughout of a very hard osseous substance. There has been a fracture of the shaft of the femur, a little below the trochanter minor, which has firmly united. This fracture occurred before the growth of the tumor commenced. There was a very much larger part of this tumor, consisting principally of cartilaginous substance, a portion of which is preserved in the bottle No. 15. Cast of the limb from which the preceding specimen was taken. No. 3. D 2