38 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS CONTINUED. SPECIMENS NOT CONTAINED IN BOTTLES. H. I Tibia and Fibula. The tibia has been fractured in its middle, and the fibula near its upper end. The fractured ends of the tibia have overlapped. Both fractures are firmly united. H. 2 Tibia, Fibula, and Astragalus. The tibia has been fractured near its middle. The upper portion of the bone is considerably displaced. The fracture has firmly united. The tibia is anchylosed to the fibula and to the astragalus. H. 3 Tibia and Fibula. The tibia has been fractured about one third from its lower end, and the fibula near to its upper end. Both fractures have firmly united. H. 4 Femur, which has been fractured about one third from its upper extremity. The fractured ends overlap considerably, the upper portion lying in front of the lower. The fracture has firmly united. tl. 5 Femur, which has been fractured in the middle of its shaft. The two portions overlap to the extent of between four and five inches, the upper portion lying in front of the lower. H. 6 Femur, which has been fractured immediately above the trochanter minor. The upper portion is considerably displaced. The fracture has firmly united. H. T Femur, which has been fractured in the middle of its shaft. The two portions overlap con- siderably, the upper portion lying on the inner side of the lower. The fracture has firmly united. H. 8 Femur, which has been fractured in two places by a wheel passing over the limb. One fracture is about one third from its upper end, and the other at the same distance from its lower end. H. 9 Portion of a Femur which has been fractured transversely through the middle of its shaft, and there is an extension of the fracture downwards through the internal condyle. H. 10 Portion of a Femur which has been fractured through the trochanter major and upper part of the shaft. The fracture extends obliquely through the shaft to the extent of five inches. The fractured surfaces, not in contact, have united by portions of bone extended between them.