52 Sections of a Tumor which was removed from the cavity of the orbit in an adult, with a portion of Brain, from the same individual. The tumor consists of the remains of the eye, and of a mass of soft substance, which, in some situations, is white and medullary, and in others, of a perfectly black colour. The only parts of the natural structure of the eye which can be distinguished, are the optic nerve and the sclerotica. In the lower part of the bottle is a portion of the tumor which was extracted from the back part of the orbit. With the portion of brain the optic nerves are connected. One of the nerves has some of the medullary and black substance attached to it. This nerve is reduced in size as far as the junction, but beyond this, no change in it is visible. From the same individual as No. 23, in Diseases of the Liver. Eye, from an adult. The only parts of the natural structure of the organ which remain, are the sclerotica and cornea, the optic nerve, the iris, the choroid membrane, and the crystalline humor. The rest of the globe is filled by a soft and black substance, which has also protruded through the back part of the sclerotica. The optic nerve is reduced in size, but is otherwise sound. Eye, from an adult. The large aperture in the cornea is the result of ulceration. The margin of this aperture was adherent to the iris, from which it has been separated. The iris, imme- diately around its pupillary margin, which was adherent to the cornea, is thickened, and lymph is deposited upon it, giving it a ragged appearance. From an individual in whom there was Disease of the Brain, in the Tuber Annulare, which implicated the origins of the fifth and seventh Nerves. Case described by Mr. Stanley. London Medical Gazette, vol. i., No. 18. Eye, from an adult. The retina has completely disappeared, and its place is occupied by a thick layer of dense osseous substance. Lachrymal Gland of its natural size and structure, which, protruding from the orbit, was felt externally through the integument of the eyelid, and was removed by operation. Section of a Tumor which was removed from the cavity of the orbit, with the eye and the optic nerve. The tumor adheres to the back part and sides of the sclerotica, and the optic nerve, elongated, passes through its centre. The texture of the tumor is firm and compact, and it was of a light yellow colour. The recti muscles, unaltered, adhere to it externally. The eye was protruded from the orbit. The humors have escaped through an ulcerated aperture in the cornea. The sclerotica is natural. The retina and the choroid membrane are collapsed, and occupy the centre of the eye between the entrance of the optic nerve and the iris. The space between the choroid membrane and the sclerotica is occupied by a clot of blood. A Tumor, which was removed from the orbit, apparently consisting of the lachrymal gland enlarged and changed in structure. The texture of the tumor is very firm. Its divided sur- face is granulated, and there are white lines dispersed through it.