63 28 Aneurism arising from the Carotid Artery about half an inch below its division, for the cure of which the operation has been performed. A section is made of the aneurismal sac- shewing its cavity contracted and filled by layers of coagulum. A portion of straw is passed through the opening of communication between the sac and the artery. The situation where the artery has been tied is marked by a portion of straw which is introduced into the channel leading to the artery, from which the ligature has been withdrawn. Below the situation of the ligature, the artery is filled by a plug of lymph extending a considerable way down the vessel. Above the situation of the ligature, the coats of the artery are thickened, and lymph is deposited upon its internal surface; these appearances extend upwards to the division of the carotid into the external and internal branches, both of which are pervious. The coats of the aorta are thickened and tuberculated. Case described by Mr. Vincent. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. x. p. 212. 29 Obliteration of the Vena Cava Inferior. The preparation consists of the remains of the vena cava, of the right kidney, and of a firm fleshy substance which has been formed between them. Great part of the kidney is absorbed. The vena cava is obliterated from its commencement below, almost to its termination in the auricle. The upper part of the vein is distended by fibrous matter, which appeared to have been separated from the blood. Below this fibrous matter, the vein could not be traced; it appeared to be completely lost in the diseased structure. 30 Portion of the Abdominal Aorta. Osseous matter is deposited between its coats to the extent that it forms a complete tube of bone. 31 Obliteration of the Vena Cava Inferior, and of the Common Iliac Veins, by a deposition of lymph iirto them. From the contracted state of the veins, it was inferred that they had been obliterated for a considerable time. 32 Portion of Artery exhibiting the division of the internal coats by three different kinds of ligature, viz. the large round, the small round, and the flat ligature. The small round ligature which is in the middle, appears to have made the most accurate division of the coats. It is necessary to state, that the experiment was made on a dead artery. 33 Sections of a small Aneurism arising from the Abdominal Aorta. The sac is situated c5 between the coats of the artery. Its cavity is filled by laminated coagulum. Above and below the aneurism, bony matter is deposited between the coats of the artery, and its inner surface is ulcerated. 34 Abundant deposition of Lymph upon the inner membrane of the Femoral Vein. In some situations, the lymph is of considerable thickness. That part of the inner membrane of the