32 9 10 Portion of a. Spine in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebra?, with fracture of the body and arch of the fifth. The body of the fourth vertebra projects in front of the fifth. It is necessary to observe that the fissures upon the arches of the vertebrae, on each side of the spinous processes, were made by the saw. ! in opening the spinal canal. Portion of a Spine in which there is dislocation of the articular processes and bodies of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, with fracture of the articular process of the fifth. 1 I Portion of a Spine in which there is complete anchylosis of the second and third cervical vertebrae without any change in the structure of the bones. S 2 Portion of a Spine in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, with fracture of the body of the sixth. 13 Portion of a Spine in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebree without any fracture. Case described by Mr. Lawrence. Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 394. 14 Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting partial absorption of the head of the humerus and glenoid cavity. The surfaces of the scapula and humerus which have been in contact are adapted to each other, and are covered by cartilaginous substance, so as to form a new joint. 15 Portion of a Humerus in which fracture occurred many years before death. The ends of the bone not having united, have become accurately adapted to each other, and have acquired a polished surface. 16 Portion of a Humerus in which fracture occurred many years before death. The ends of the bone are covered by cartilaginous substance, and they are connected by a distinct mem- branous capsule, which is smooth upon its internal surface. 11 i Section of the Cartilage of a Rib which appears to have been fractured and reunited by the | growth of new cartilaginous substance. 18 Elbow-Joint, in which there is fracture and dislocation. The radius and ulna are broken about two inches below the joint. The head of the radius is dislocated upwards in front of the humerus. The fractured ends of the radius and ulna not having united by bone, are connected by new capsules, which have formed around them. 19 Elbow-Joint, exhibiting a transverse fracture of the olecranon extending into the cavity of the joint. A portion of quill is passed between the fractured surfaces.