Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 11 as possible) sipped between times. (4) Drugs, such as iodide of potassium, to lower vascular tension, and, at the same time, to induce coagulation by breaking up the white cells of the blood and liberating the fibrin ferment; aconite and yeratria to depress and weaken the heart's action. Acetate of lead has also been recommended. It should be borne in mind, however, that drugs without rest in bed in the recumbent posture, spare diet, avoid- ance of all excitement, etc., are probably of little use; and that if these conditions are properly carried out they are to a great extent superfluous. SURGICAL. Before performing any operation, one ought to make sure that there is no internal aneurism, and that there is an absence of wide- spread cardiac or vascular disease. I. LIGATURE.—(a) Method of Antyllus (the "old operation," dating from the third century). In this method, the artery is commanded on the proximal side of the aneurism, the sac is freely exposed and opened, the clot turned out, and then, by means of a probe as guide, the arterial orifices opening into it are found, and the artery tied both above and below the aneurism (Fig. 3). In many cases it is a very dangerous and tedious operation to expose the sac, as it may be deeply placed and surrounded by important structures, e.rj., in the popliteal space. Further, there is a great risk of secondary hjcmorrhage when the ligatures separate; besides, very often profuse suppuration of the deep trench-like wound thus made —it may be briefly characterised as inefl'ective, tedious, bloody, and daugerous. In the evolution of this operation, Antyllus made three mis- takes :—First, and most serious, he tied the vessel at a part where the coats were diseased; hence, the great mortality and risk of secondary haamorrhage. Second, he seemed to think that in order to cure an aneurism it was necessary to cowplddy check the blood flow to and through the ancurismal sac; whereas, all that is necessary is to obtain a temporary decrease in the force of the blood stream. Third, he had erroneous views as to the value and uses of the blood clot. He thought tlie clot was a vicious thing,