334 Applied Anatomy: waxy degeueration, as evidenced l)y enlargement of the liver and spleen, albumen in the urine, and diarrhoea. Even should there be no sinuses leading down to the joint, if it contain pus, the sooner it is evacuated and the cavity drained, the better- provided it is done antiseptically—for there can be no hope of "absorption" taking place, matters simply going from bad to worse. At the same time all loose pieces of bone should be removed, the diseased surfaces scraped mth a sharp spoon, and the limb then put up in the best position for ankylosis, either by the long splint, or weight and pulley; after ankylosis, the increased mobility of the lumbar vertebrae make up for the stiff hip joint. In the, fortunately, less common form where the disease begins in the acetabulum, the natural termination of siich cases is death; in them, therefore, the Surgeon is bound to interfere and excise the joint to provide suificient drainage for the pelvic abscesses and the removal of loose pieces of bone. Excision for disease in adult life is almost unilbrmly fatal, and the operation is therefore conhned to childhood and youth. 2. Eor j,y«,.y_compound fracture of upper part of femur, and the rare conditions of compound dislocation and gun-shot injuries. 3. Eor the Result uf Disease or Ivjury, the hip_ joint ought never to be excised for osseous ankylosis in a bad position. The proper treatment for Osseous Ankylosis in a bad position is_(l) To perform subcutaneous section of the neck of the femur, as practised by W. Adams; or (2) Gant's operation of subcutaneous section of the shaft below hoth trochanters, an operation that may be performed in many cases where Adams's operation is imm-acticable; or (3) Sayre's operation of division alove the lesser trochanter, with concave section of the upper, and convex of the lower part of the divided bone, so as to form a kind of artihcia ioint lu all cases the limb is then brought down to the straiglit position The objections to Adams's plan are-(l) Leaving saw- dust in the deep part of the wound, and (2) the risk of P-;P"^ in septic materials during the use of the saw. io get rid_of the e dangers Professor Chibne divides the bone with Macewen s knock- knee osteotome. . . ... For the control of hemorrhage during excision of the jom , apply the elastic tourniquet, as in amputation at the hip joint.