231 Sjirgical, Medical, a//d Operative. 4. By Deltoid Flap—A large Hap consisting nearly of the whole of the deltoid, is raised either by transfixion or dissection, and the ditl'erent manipulations are nearly the same as in making the external flap in the previous method. The base of the flap will extend from the coracoid process to a little behind the most prominent point, or angle, of the acromion process. Should it lie made by transfixion, the arm is to be held in the abducted position in the first instance, to allow the operator to grasp and cut the flap more easily. The flap is raised, and the assistant pushes the arm forcibly across the chest, to make the capsule tense, and rotates the humerus, while the Surgeon severs the capsule and capsular muscles. The head being turned out of the glenoid cavity, the knife is passed round it and the structures in axilla divided, so as to form a short stump of tissues to meet the long deltoid flap Avhich is laid over it. As in the other methods, an assistant grasps the axillary vessels on the inner side, before the tissues are divided. The objections to this plan are—(1) The large surface of the wound. (2) The double line of cicatrix. (3) In many cases it would be impossible to get sufficient healthy tissue to form the large deltoid flap. The principles adopted in amputation through the hip joint might also be applied to the shoulder joint, especially in cases where the Surgeon is short-handed, so far as assistants are con- cerned. It would leave a longer stump than the other methods, and, were it done subperiosteally, a certain amount of power would he retained to control an artificial limb. The principles are— (1) Amputation through the soft parts circularly low down; (2) ligature all the blood-vessels; and (.3) dissect out the bone through an incision where it is least thickly covered, and where the blood-vessels are small and few: in the shoulder the incision should, therefore, l)e along the anterior aspect of the joint aird upper part of the shaft of the humerus. The chief Structures divided. —1. Integumentary structures. 2. Muscles —(a) Deltoid, and tlie muscles in connection with the oai)Hulc uf the joint, viz.—snpra-spinatus, (r) infra-spinatus, ('0 teres minor, i^) snbscapularis, (/) long liead of triceps. Muscles not attached to the capsule, (r/) pectoralis major, (li) latissimus dorsi, ('■) teres major, (,/) coraco-brachialis, and (/,■) liiccps (botli heads).