432 Applied Anatomy: Fracture of the Coracoid Process.—Fracture of this process is rare, because of its depth, and because it is so well protected by neighbouring bones. Occasionally, however, fracture is produced by direct violence, though JNIr Lane believes that it is usually broken by indirect violence, as a fall with the arm fully flexed at the shoulder joint, so that the coracoid process is jammed against the under surface of the clavicle; the same thing wonld also take place when a person falls from a height and catches hold of some thing with his hands—the sudden check would jam the process against the clavicle. This injury is often associated with dislocation of the shoulder. Like the previous process, it may be merely the separation of an epiphysis; a centre appears during the first year near the tip of the bone, and unites with the rest from twenty-two to twenty-five years of age. If the fracture is external to the coraco-clavicular ligament, the detached fragment Avill be displaced downwards and inwards by the short head of the biceps and coraco- brachialis on the one hand, and the pectoralis minor on the other. If internal to the ligament, there will be no displacement, as it will simply be slung up to the clavicle by the strong coraco-clavicular ligament. The Treatment wiU be to bend the arm to an acute angle, to relax the biceps, support the elbow, and bind the whole arm to the trunk. THE HUMERUS. This bone is developed by seven centres; that for (1) the shaft appears about the fifth week of foetal life, and at birth the shaft is pretty weU ossified though the ends are cartilaginous. (2) A centre for the head appears during the first or second years, and unites ^vith the tuberosities in the line of tlie anatomical neck, about the acre of five (Fig. 78). Before five years of age, therefore, il will be possible to have a separation of this epiphysis. (3) There is a centre for the tuberosities which appears during the second or third yc^ars and after being joined by the head of the bone, unites with tlie shaft at twenty years of age (Fig. 79), the line of union being considerably above the surgical neck, so that from five to twenty yeai-s of age we are more Hkely to have a separation at this line than fracture of tlie surgical neck (Fig. 78). The lengtb of the bone is mainly due to growth from this upper epiphysis. At the lowei' end there are