Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 533 EoBERTSON curves it slightly, so tliat it may enter the duct more easily; he judges of the proper amount by placing the curved part against the side of the jmtient's nose and eyebrow just over the sac and duct, and when it lies level with the skin it is sufficiently curved. It is then passed along the opened canaliculus till the point comes into contact with the lachrymal bone, when the handle is raised till it lies over the supra-orbital notch, and the probe is then to be pushed in the direction above indicated—downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. SURFACE VESSELS OF THE EYEBALL. By this is meant vessels that can be seen, more or less distinctly, with the naked eye in certain diseased conditions. 1. The Vessels Proper to the Conjunctiva.—These vessels are usually known as the posterior conjunctival branches, and are derived from the palpebral and lachrymal arteries. In health they are too small to be well seen, but in simple conjunctivitis they can be seen to perfection. They are of a bright brick-red colour, superficial, moving with the conjunctiva when it is slid over the globe, can be emptied for a time by gentle pressure, are tortuous, forming open loops, largest at the circumference of the globe, and growing smaller and less marked as they approach the edge of the cornea. 2. The Vessels of the Iris.—These are chiefly derived from (a) The two Long Ciliary arteries which pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and run forwards along each side of the eyeball, between the sclerotic and the choroid to the ciliary ligament, where they each divide into two branches and form the great arterial circle of the iris, from which smaller brandies pass to form the lesser circle at the pupillary margin, {h) The Anterior Ciliary arteries, which are derived from the muscular brandies, and lie in the .nih-eonjunctival tissue, and divide into two sets of branches (1) The /ye?:/br«/mr/branches, which pierce the sclerotic about a line from the edge of the cornea, supply tlie sclerotic and ciliary body, and end in the great arterial circle of the iris; and (2) the npi-schral non-perforating branches, which are too small to bo seen in health, but in Lritis, and in some deep-seated inflammatory aflcctions of- the cornea, they form a zone (" circumcorneal zone") about an