Surgical, Medical, and- Operative. 87 with princeps cervicis of occipital (6); (h) the vertebral (8) with the occipital (7); (c) inferior tliyroid with superior thyroid (10). 4. Anastomoses between the subclavian aud the internal carotid of the side tied, the vertebral (from subclavian) through the basilar aud posterior cerebral, with posterior communicating from internal carotid, i.e., through the lateral segment of the "circle of Willis" (1). 5. Anastomoses of the ophthalmic, from the internal carotid, through the " circle of WilUs," Avith branches of the external carotid on the side tied—■(«) Nasal of ophthalmic with angular of facial; (b) infra-orbital, from internal maxillary, with twigs of facial; (c) supra-orbital and frontal, from ophthalmic, with terminations of the anterior temporal. The usual cause of death after hgature of the common carotid is cerebral disease induced by the operation, from the sudden inter- ference with the cerebral circulation; the symptoms are twitchings, tremblings, convulsions, syncope, giddiness, and sometimes complete hemiplegia of the opposite side, probably due to tlie diminished supply of arterial blood. The softening of the brain which is apt to follow corresponds, pathologically, to gangrene in other situations; abscess in the brain has occasionally been found. In other cases drowsiness, stupor, and apoplexy supervene, probably from the venous congestion. Besides the cerebral symptoms the lungs, in many cases, appear to be affected, probably from the interference with the blood supply to the medulla oblongata, they become congested and are apt to run into a low form of inflammation, just as in injury of the trunks of the vagi. Occasionally, vascular erectile tumours are situated over the course of the carotid artery, and may indirectly communicate witli it or the jugular vein : under such circumstances the diagnosis of aneurism becomes a matter of extreme diflicidty. IRREGULARITIES.—Tlie vessel may bifurcate as low as the cricoid cartilage, or even lower, so that two trunlcs are met with instead of one at the usual seat of ligature. Sometimes it ascends as high as, or even higher than the hyoid bono before it divides. The carotids may arise by a common trunk, the right tlien passing in front of the lower part of the trachea in the neck to reach its nsiial situation ; in such a case it would be in the way, aud form a great source danger in the operation of tracheotomy.