320 Applied Anatomy: peels it and tlie other structures on the outer side—the common tendon of the extensors and the anconeus muscle—from the outer condyle of the humerus and head of radius. In doing this the edge of the knife must he kept close to the hone and rasping against it. In cases where, in excision for disease, the periosteum is SAVollen and loosened hy inflammation, this separation should he accomplished by means of a periosteum elevator, the periosteum and tendons being raised en masse. By this means the outer condyle and the head of the radius are cleared ; by clearing the oviter side first the tension is lessened and the operator can more easily deal with the structures at the inner side of the joint, among which is the ulnar nerve (Spence). Many Surgeons prefer to clear the inner side of the joint first, and for this reason make the incision rather nearer the ulnar side. Mr Maunder pointed out that in clearing the outer side it is important to preserve the fascia over the anconeus, which is continuous with the tendon of the triceps and attached to the posterior border of the ulna, so that the power of extension of the elboAV joint may be preserved. In like manner, the inner side of the joint must be cleared, first turning off the triceps and then the rest of the soft parts lower down—the common tendon of the flexors and pronator radii teres—till the inner condyle is fuUy exposed. In doing so the periosteum elevator should, if possible, be used, but if not, the edge of the knife must be kept close to the bone and carefully follow all its sinuosities so that the ulnar nerve, which lies between the internal condyle and the olecranon process, may escape injury (Fig. 63). The flaps are now to be held aside with blunt hooks, and then the assistant must again moderately flex the elbow; the olecranon process is then seized with the lion forceps, and the operator snips it off with the bone pliers, after having, if necessary, partially divided it with the saw. The assistant next forcibly and fully flexes the joint till the fore-arm touches the upper arm, and then holds them vertically at right angles to the table, and at the same time he puUs the fore-arm towards the table and pushes the humerus upwards; the Surgeon then, with a touch of the knife, divides the strong lateral ligaments close to their attachment to the con- dyles of the humerus, as they are narrowest at these points 1 le idyles of the humerus are then to be cleared and divided ^ cone