522 Applied Anatomy: it is verj^ thin walled, and contains epitlielial cells and fine hairs. It is attached to the periosteum, and very often causes a depression in the hone as well, hut the superficial structures move freely over it. The wall of the sac is usually very thin, and a very careful and tedious dissection is required to remove it; occasionally, it is connected with the dura mater. These cysts are developed in the situation of the inner end of the emhryonic fronto-orhital fissm-e. Dermoids are also met with occasionally at the inner and loAver angle of the orhit, in the situation of the upper end of the emhryonic naso - maxillary fissure; the nasal duct represents a persistent portion of the same cleft or fissure. One must he very careful not to confound a meningocele, in this situation, with a dermoid cyst. The Eyeball (Fig. 115).—The eyehall consists of three coats and the refracting media. The outer COat is formed hy the sclerotic and cornea, (a) The sclerotic forms five-sixths of the circumference of the globe, and is composed of strong fibrous tissue, being thicker behind than in front; its weakest part is about a quarter-of-an- inch behind the cornea, (fc) The cornea forms the anterior sixth of the circumference of the globe, forming a small projection in front, being the segment of a smaller sphere than the sclerotic. It consists of five layers—(1) Anterior epithelium — squamous and stratified, (2) anterior elastic lamina of Eowman, (3) the corneal tissue proper, (4) posterior elastic lamina of Descejiet or Demours, and (5) the posterior epithelium—a single layer of squamous cells. The corneal tissue is continuous with the sclerotic, but the opaque sclerotic overlaps the cornea very much in the same way as a watch-glass is overlapped by the edge of the groove that receives it. It is important to remember this in making incisions about the corneo-sclerotic junction. The middle coat consists of the choroid, ciliary body, and iris. {a) The Choroid is the vascular and pigmented coat of the eyeball, and is often the seat of melanotic sarcoma. It consists of—(1) The lamina supra-choroidea and the lamina fusca, which connect it with the sclerotic, and between which is found a lymph space. (2) The venre vorticosK", which end in the ophthalmic vein and retui-n the blood from the globe; in cases of increased intra-ocular tension, as in glaucoma, prcssiu-e on these veins is indicated hy the dOated