470 Applied Anatomy: Accompanying Chaiioot's disease wc may likewise find some or all of the following symptoms—(1) Lightening and girdle pains; (2) loss of co-ordinating power, usually first observed Ijy the patient ill the dark, as in rising at night, or when his eyes arc shut, as in washing himself in the morning, when he is apt to fall into the basin. It is also seen when he stands with his eyes closed and his heels close together, for then he sways from side to side, and will probably fall; he staggers also when he turns sharply round. (3) Loss of the patellar reflex; (4) Argyll Robertson symptom; (5) temporary paralysis of the ocular nerves; (6) various forms of parsesthesia, such as numbness and formication, and delayed conduction of sensory impressions, especially of pain; and (7) crises of various organs, such as the stomach, intestines, and kidnej'S, but especially the stomach. Treatment of Fractures of the Neck.—In all cases treat as if we meant to get bony union. The old plan was simply to keep the patient a week or two in bed, then allow them to rise and hobble to the end of hfe (often not far distant), with the aid of a friendly stick or crutch, as best they could. Many Surgeons seem to think that this is still the best method of treatment, with the addition, perhaps, of a well-fitted Thomas's hip splint. In spite of this treatment it occasionally happens that the fracture unites by lone, as some museum specimens show ; and in cases where no union takes place, the capsule becomes so thickened in many cases that the patient may be able to walk about fiiii-ly well. Formerly the mortality from this accident was greater than that of amputation at the hip joint, the causes of death being failure of the general health, hypostatic congestion of the lungs, and bed sores; these, combined with imperfect nursing, very qmckly finished the patient. I5e careful to keep the buttocks and back dean and dry, the sheets smooth, and, if necessary, use a water bed • the use of the weight and pulley, too, with a single or double lono-' side splint to prevent evcrsion, will do much to obviate the former dreaded and fatal dangers. In impacted fracture, provided the shortening and eversion arc not greater than usual, all that is requii-ed is simply to steady tlie limb by a double long splmt withont fhe use of an>i extendon apparahis at all. The bone must on no account be unimpacted, as it is in the very best possible