462 Applied Anatomy. in old persons. Tlie fingers and tluuiib are left free, aud moved regularly from the very first, and at the end of the fourth or fiftli day the splints are to he taken off, and the Surgeon, placing his index and middle finger over the upper end of the lower fragment, and his thumb on the lower end of the upper fragment, keeps the bones in position, while he gently moves the wrist with his other hand. This must be done every second day till the bones have united—at the end of three or four weeks. There is Httle or no danger of non-union, as the fracture is through the cancellous tissue, but there is great danger of a stiff and useless wrist result- ing, especially in old persons. There are many other forms of splints used; but the results of the above simple method, that generally adopted in Edinburgh, are so satisfactory that it is quite unnecessary to seek refuge in more complicated, expensive, uncomfortable, and less efficient apparatus. Among them may be mentioned, the " pistol"-shaped splint, Gordon's splint, Cvbb's splint, etc. One objection, it seems to me, to most of these special splints, is that the hand is di^laced as far in the opposite direction by the splint, as that caused by the force that broke the bone in the other direction. That the wrist is extended and the hand displaced to the radial side, is no reason, surely, why it should be unduly flexed and turned as far to the ulnar side—unless, indeed, it be to test the truth of the parallelogram of forces; but m this case it is scarcely necessary to point out that the two forces must act mnultaneoudy on the point in question. The "pistol" splint is specially objectionable, as it almost invariably leads to a stiQ ^vrist—the very thing we most wish to avoid. RESUME of the fractures about the wrist joint :— 1 CoLLEs's fracture, known by the marked deformity and the altered position of the styloid processes to each other. 2 Smith's fracture, where the deformity is reversed. .3. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the radius, known by the age of the patient—below twenty. 4 Fractures of both bones just above the wrist—marked de- formity, but hand in a straight line with the fore-arm. 5. Fracture just above the pronator (luadratus; the hand turns in aud is fully j^ro/trttet?. I