560 Applied Anatomy: Supernumerary Auricles are occasionally found. They are sometimes represented by small tags of skin near the pinna; or again, they may be found in the neck, in association with branchial fistulas. The pinna is first indicated in the embryo by six small tubercles, which arise on each side of the hyo-mandibular cleft. When any of the tubercles fail to coalesce the result may be congenital fistula;, or supernumerary auricles. Sometimes also bits of epithelium become buried during their coalescence and form the germs of dermoid cysts. THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM. This is a small six-sided cavity, somewhat compressed from side to side, situated in the substance of the temporal bone, and containing air. It communicates with the pharynx, by means of the Eustachian tube. It is placed immediately above the jugular fossa; in front is the carotid canal, with the internal carotid artery; behind are the mastoid cells and the internal jugiUar vein; externally the membrana tympani and external auditory meatus, and internally the labyrinth. Boundaries.—1. The roof is a thin plate of bone separating the cranial from the tympanic cavity; the bone is only separated from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe by the dura mater, 2. The floor is formed by the meeting of the outer and inner walls, and is immediately above the jugular fossa; in the floor is a small aperture for the entrance of Jacobson's nerve (from the glosso-pharyngeal). 3. The outer wall is the membrana tympani. At the lower part of this wall there are three openings—the Glaserian fissure, which gives passage to the laxator tympani muscle, the tympanic vessels, and lodges the processus gracilis of the malleus; and the ' iter chorda} ■posterius et anterius, being the apertures of entrance and exit of the chorda tympani nerve. The iter chordcB anterins is the besinninj? of the canal of Huguier. The chorda tympani is the nerve of taste to the anterior two-thii-ds of the tongue, and passes across the cavity from back to front, close to the outer wall, between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, being invested by a fold of the mucous membrane forming