Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 315 practisod for disease, tlie periosteum, softened l:)y tlic iiiflaimnatovy action, is readily separated from the bono. Should, however, any great dirticulty be experienced in doing so, tlie capsule must be divided close to and on the anatomical neck of tlie humerus, alone Avith the tendons attached to the tuberosities, by a single firm sweep of the knife as the assistant rotates and lowers tlie arm. The glenoid cavity is next examined, but it rarely recjuires to be interfered with at all. If very much diseased, it may be removed by the bone-pliers or dressed with the gouge forceps, either through the incision already made or through a posterior vertical incision, above the posterior circumflex artery. This maj^ seem an unneces- sary mutilation, but as a matter of fact it is not so, as this opening can be afterwards utilised for drainage, and besides, the glenoid cavity is much nearer the posterior than the anterior surface. In cases where the glenoid cavity is not interfered with, a counter opening must be made behind for the exit of discharges, since the patient lies on his back; and Avere no opening made the wound Avould simply become a huge well of putrescible fluids, and a fit nidus for the growth of putrefactive or pathogenic organisms. I'o make the opening, bring the arm to tlie side, into the same position it will occupy during the after treatment, and by means of a dress- ing forceps (Mr Spexoe used his left index finger) Avork through the tissues till its point presses against the skin above the posterior circumflex artery; divide the skin over the point of the forceps, push it through, open the blades, seize the drainage tube, and Avithdraw the forceps, leaving the tube in its proper place. This care is necessary, on account of the presence of the large posterior circumflex artery. As regards the after treatment no special apparatus is required, all that is necessary i.s to support tlie shoulder on a pilloAV for a few days, Avith a good, long, soft pad, tliicker above than IjcIoav, placed in the axilla to keep the upper part of the shaft ontAvards, as it is apt to be tilted inwards by the muscles inserted into the bicipital groove —pectoralis major, latissimns dorsi, a)id teres iHajr;r--just as in fracture of tlie surgical neck. The Aviiund is dressed in the usual Avay and the Avlu.le. upper extreniily l)ound to the chest. AVhen the patient is able to sit nj) and move about (wliich he should be eucouragi'd to do as soon as possible), tlic arm