Siirg-ica/, Jlfedical, ai/d Operative. 219 its ligaments and the triceps muscle. The amjjiitation is a good one in suitable cases, Lotli because of the long stump thus secured, aud the bulbous end for the attachment of an artificial substitute. 2. The Circular Method may also be used, but it is not so good as the flap. The fore-arm being held supinated, a circular incision is made through the superficial structures, about two inches below the internal condyle. The sheath of skin and fat and fascia is then retracted to the level of the articulation, the joint opened, the remaining sti'uctures divided, and the limb removed. Mr Bryant considers amputation at the elbow an excellent operation, and performs it by anterior and posterior skin flaps, with circular division of the muscles {I.e., the "modified circular"), the posterior flaji being the larger, so that the scar may be out of harm's way. The bases of the flaps correspond to the lower extremities of the condyloid ridges. In this amputation the following are the chief Structures divided — 1. Integumentary structures. 2. Muscles — (a) Biceps, {h) brachialis anticus, (c) pronator radii teres and flexors of the wrist and fingers, including the following muscles—flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor carpi idnaris, flexor profundus digitorum, and flexor longus poUicis ; {(I) triceps aud anconeus, (e) supinator longus, (/) supinator brevis, and {(/) the following extensors of the wrist and fingers— extensores carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. 3. Vessels—(ft) Eadial artery, {h) ulnar artery, {c) the common interosseous or its branches, {d) posterior ulnar recurrent, (e) the con-esponding veins, and also the superficial veins of the fore-arm. 4. Nerves—(«) Median, {h) ulnar, {c) radial, aud {d) anterior and posterior interosseous nerves. 5. Ligaments of tlie joint. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER ARM. This is said to be tlie simplest of all amputations, and may be effected with almost equal success by various methods—as the old circular, modified circular, or by antero-posterior or lateral flaps. 1. Equal Antero-Posterior Flaps by Transfixion—By the use of equal flaps tlie bone can be divided at the loAvcst possible point, and the presence of a cicatrix at the (;nd of the stump is not of so