Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 28 3. The Tunica adventitia, or external cofit, consists of a closely felted layer of wliite connective tissne, witli a varying proiDortion of longitndinally dis})osed elastic fibres, -wliich are sj^ecially seen towards the inner part of the coat, next tlie mnscular fibres of the tunica media, in arteries of medium size. The arteries within the cavity of the cranium and spinal canal have very thin walls, chiefly due to the thinness of their external and middle coats. The Arterial Sheath.— In most parts of the body the arteries are enclosed in a sheath of connective tissue, to which the external coat is but very loosely connected by filaments of fibrous tissue, and the sheath itself is hut loosely attached to the surrounding structures. The arteries within the cranial cavity, and the first part of the aorta possess no such sheath, and this explains why aneurism of these vessels hurst so very easily—coupled with the thinness of the coats of the intra-cranial vessels. Some arteries, such as the common carotids and femorals, have special sheaths in addition to the usual sheath, a fact which the student is perhaps apt to forget when tying these vessels for the first time. All the facts above enumerated have important bearings on the natural arrest of Immorrliage, the only means at present open to many of the lower animals. What takes place when a Medium-Sized Artery is completely cut across?—(1) The artery contracts, because of the circular dis- position of the muscular fibres, under the stimulus of the knife. (2) It retracts within its sheath from the elasticity of the longitudinally disposed elastic fibres in its various coats, and, in some cases, from the presence of longitudinal contractile fibre-cells. This retraction is permitted on account of the loose connection between the tunica adventitia and the sheath. (3) The sheath being now empty for a little way, falls together or collapses, and this leads to the formation of (4) the " external" clot, which temporarily seals the vessel. This collapse of the slicath is permitted because of the loose connection between it and the surrounding tissues. In many cases of severe ha3morrhage, which would not otherwise cease, cardiac syncoi)o occurs, and this gives time for the formation of an external clot which seals the vessel for the time being. There is a great risk, however, unless the vessel is otherwise secured, that wlien the