102 Applied Anatomy: course must be remembered in making the incision through the integuments Avhen about to trephine the mastoid cells, as it lies in the interval between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus. It anastomoses with the occipital and temporal arteries. Its branches are—(1) The stylo-mastoid, wliich enters the stylo- mastoid foramen and supplies the middle ear, mastoid cells, and semi-circular canals; (2) the auricular, which is distributed to the back of the cartilage of the ear. Ascending Pharyngeal.—This branch arises near the commence- ment of the external carotid, and ascends by the side of the pharynx, and to the inner side of the internal carotid, to the base of the skull, beneath the other branches of the external carotid, and also beneath the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, biit lying on the rectus capitis anticus major. Its branches are distributed to the muscles in this region, to the dura mater, and to the pharynx. The branches to the dura mater (meningeal) pass through the foramen lacerum medius, foramen lacerum posticus, and sometimes through the anterior condyloid foramen. The liliaryngeal branches pass through the space of Morgagni to supply the soft palate and tonsil, and anastomose with the ascending palatine of the facial. This vessel lies close to the tonsil, and a case is recorded by Mr Bakeb where a wound of the artery from the throat, by the stem of a tobacco-pipe, proved fatal by repeated haemorrhages, notwithstand- ing ligature of the common carotid. At the post-mortem it was discovered the pipe stem had completely divided the artery. Temporal Artery.—This is one of the terminal branches of the external carotid. It arises in the parotid gland on a level with the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and passes upwards over the root of the zygoma, in front of the ear, to the scalp, and divides, about two inches above the zygoma into anterior and posterior branches, which pass in directions indicated by their names. As it crosses the root of zygoma it is covered (1) by a dense fascia derived from the parotid gland; (2) several veins; it is also accom- panied in this region by branches of the facial and the auricu o- temporal nerves. It is on account of these relations that the operation of arteriotomy should not be performed in this situation, as the dense fascia interferes with the free llow of blood during the operation, as well as causing some difficulty in controlling the