162 Applied Anatomy: Branches of the Profunda.^—1. The external circumflex—this branch passes outwards "beneath the sartorius and rectus, and divides into—(a) Ascending branches which pass upwards and anastomose Avith the gluteal and the circumflex iliac arteries; {h) transverse branches which pass outwards over the crureus, and anastomose on the hack of the thigh with the internal circumflex, gluteal, sciatic, and superior perforating arteries; (c) descending branches Avhich pass downwards towards the knee, and anastomose with the superior articular branches of the poi:)liteal artery. 2. The internal circumflex—this vessel passes directly backwards towards the gluteal region, and there anastomoses with the gluteal, sciatic, and superior perforating arteries. It gives a small branch to the hip joint. It arises from the posterior surface of the pro- funda, and disappears by passing between the pectineus and psoas muscles; and, continuing its course backwards, between the obturator externus and the adductor brevis, and finally appearing behind between the adductor magnus and the quadratus femoris muscles. On reaching the obturator externus it divides into two branches, one passing above and the other below the adductor brevis; the branch passing beneath appears in the buttock, after giving a branch to the hip joint. 3. The tlu'ee perforating arteries, which pass backwards close to the femur, and appear on the posterior surface of the adductor magnus. These arteries form a regular chain of anastomoses in the back of the thigh, connected above with the gluteal and sciatic arteries, and below with the anastomotica magna and the superior articular branches of the popliteal. The position of the various branches should be kept in mind, as they are apt to be wounded ,in stabs and other injuries of various parts of the thigh, especially the circumflex vessels. PECULIARITIES.—It arises sometimes from the inner side of the femoral. It usually arises from one to two inches from the beginning of the femoral. In a few cases it was less than an inch; more rarely it may arise just under Poupart's ligament, and in one case it came from the external iliac. It has been known to arise four inches below the origin of the common femoral. Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 30).—(«) In ligature of the Superficial Femoral—1. The descending branches of the external circumflex above (17), anastomosing Avith the superior articular