357 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. forms a very important arrangement for diminisliing the eflects of sliock. The articukr ends of bones liave a different blood supply from tlie rest of the bone, being supplied by tlie articular arteries. The diseases of the articular end of the bone are generally of an inflammatory nature, the chief being tubercular 0!<tifix; this condi- tion, unless relieved by an external incision, is very apt to make its way to the surface, attack the cartilage, and open into the joint, and lead to complete disorganisatioii of the articulation. NOTE ON DIAGNOSIS OF JOINT DISEASES. 1. The great feature of synovial disease is swelling, and the causes usually either simple synovitis or tubercular arthritis ; the former maintains the shape peculiar to the synovial membrane thronghout its entire course, and uniform fluctuation can usually be obtained in all directions, bat more especially at those points where the membrane is nearest the surface. The latter (tuhemdar arthrifisj has at first the shape of the articulation too, but instead of fluctuation it gives a peculiar pulpy or doughy feel; later, the joint assumes the characteristic globular shape,' due to softening of the ligaments, with lateral movement of the bones, and " sym- pathetic abscesses " at various points round it. Synovial disease must be distinguished from disease of the bursie outside the joint; but in this case some Avell-known bony point is obscured, as the olecranon process, or the patella, and besides, the swelling lias not the sJuqte of the articular cavit3^ 2. The great feature of disease of the cartilage is pain; the pain is very intense, and occurs wlien tlie muscles are for a moment off guard, as wlien the patient is dropping off to sleep. He awakes with a sudden start, and the tired muscles again resume duty ("starting pains"); this is repeated again and again, and tlie patient is gradually worn out. The best treatment for this condition is a heavy weight attached to the limb ; opium is sometimes used, but this does not stop the pain, although it makes the patient insensible to it. 3. In bone disea.se tlierc is neither marked swelling nor very severe pain, unless the bone be pressed upon. There may be a sliglit general swelling of the joint with thickening of the alfecteil hone, iind the pain is more of a dec^p-seated a(;hing character, worse