69 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the first incision inwards, or even to divide a portion of tlie sterno- mastoid or trapezius. Parts cut through.—Wliile the skin is tense over the clavicle, there is divided on the bone—(1) Skin. (2) Superficial fascia. (3) Platysma. (4) Superficial nerves and vessels—the nerves are the descending branches of the cervical plexus; the vessels are chiefly the tributaries of the external jugular vein, which, at this point, usually form a venous plexus in front of the subclavian artery. The external jugular vein should be now exposed and saved by drawing it inwards or outwards according to circumstances; but, if too much in the way, it should be secured by two ligatures and divided between tbem. This vein often lies at the inner end of the incision, close to the edge of the sterno- mastoid, and on the scalenus anticus. When the tension is taken off, and the wound moved a little above the clavicle, we next divide with care, on a director, if thought necessary, (5) the deep fascia in the middle of tbe wound—that part of the cervical fascia wdiich binds down the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid to the clavicle. Next, seek for the interval between the omo-hyoid (posterior belly) and the clavicle which will probably be about an inch in extent, but may be more or less. If the omo-hyoid presents itself in the wound in the natural course of events, good and well; but, if not, it is not necessary to search for and expose it. The knife must not be allowed to pass beneath the clavicle, lest the subclavian vein or the supra-scapular vessels be injured. Take care also of the transversalis colli artery, as both it and the supra- scapular are important agents in the collateral circulation; and, besides, if the supra-scapular be injured, it is often difficult to secure, from the dense fascia in this situation and its being partly under cover of the clavicle. Push the omo-hyoid upwards a little, and, witli the finger or the handle of the knife, scratcli away any intervening areolar tissue, with a lymphatic gland and the other structures lying over the artery; then identify, either by sight or touch, the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, and follow it down to its insertion into the first rib. (6) The small nerve to the subclavius muscle also crosses in front of tlie artery near its middle. At first sight, the division of this small nerve may seem a matter of little consequence; still, it is important to remember that it very frequently lias a communication with the phrenic nerve, and may