200 Applied Anatomy: and useful stump. The rule for liudiiig tlic juiiit is llie sauic as ill tlic first pbalaux, or the tubercle at the base of the second plialaux may be used as tlie guide (see Fig. 36, e). AMPUTATION OF A WHOLE FINGER. The means to command haemorrhage, the duties of the assistant, and the position of the operator, are the same as in amputation of a terminal phalanx by the first method. It should be observed that, from the palmar aspect of the hand, the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are fully half-an-inch behind the clefts of the fingers, thus con-e- spondiiig very closely with the palmar furrow formed by the flexion of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. Note also that, Avhen the hand is clenched, the knuckles are formed by the heads of the metacarpal bones, and that the joint is midway between the posterior surface of the knuckles and the clefts between the fingers. 1st Method—The Oval Operation (Fig. 37).—This method has the advantage that it does not interfere with the palm. The bistoury is entered about half-an-inch behind the head of the metacarpal bone, and after making a short median incision, passes obliquely round the right-hand side of the root of the finger as far as the point of union of the web with the palm, and then across the palmar aspect of the finger in the crease of the skin at its root. Up to this point the knife has not been removed from the wound, but has been gradually laid on from point to heel; but to complete the oval the knife is removed, the left arm and hand of the Surgeon raised well out of the way, and the tip of the finger being amputated so held that now his thumb lies against its palmar aspect—when he commenced the operation his thumb lay on the dorsal aspect. He then re-enters the point of the knife at the end of the median incision on the dorsal aspect of the hand, and the remaining part of the oval is completed as on the other side. This plan is more convenient and neater than the method usually adopted of re-entering the point of the knife on the palmar aspect, and carrying it up from the palm to the dorsal aspect, and completing the oval in that way; further, by the iDlan above advocated, one is more likely to make the two sides of the oval symmetrical. By the other plan, in making the second part of the incision, the Surgeon's right hand with the knife