13G Applied A iiatomy : beneath and then to tlie outer side of the artery. The left vein lies entirely to the inner side of the left artery, and then passes beneath the right common iliac artery to unite with the vein of the opposite side in the formation of the inferior vena cava, at the riglit side of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The relation of the veins is a great trouble, and complicates the operation very much, more especially on the right side. In ligature of the arteries of the abdomen, the bowels must be well cleared out, and all hair shaved off the abdominal wall near the site of the incision. In cases of flatideuce after the operation use a soap and water enema, containing a tablespoonful of turpentine, to dispel it. Position of Patient.—On his back with his shoulders raised, his thighs somewhat flexed, and a small pillow under the loin of the side to be operated upon. The operator stands on the side to be operated upon. An assistant at first simply keeps tlie abdouiinal muscles moderately tense, but during the later stages of the operation, when the peritoneum is stripped from the iliac fossa, he must be prepared to turn the patient round a little more on the sound side, and then with two broad copper spatulaj to hold the abdominal muscles, the peritoneum, and intestines out of the way of the operator, for the wound is deep, and the intestines are apt to roll back into it and embarrass the operator. I noision. Make a semi-lunar incision about five inches in length, beginning about an inch below and an inch and a half internal to the anterior superior iliac spine, at first passing upwards and outwards for two and a half inches, and then upwards and slightly inwards towards a point midway between the umbilicus and the eusiform cartilage, as far as may be deemed necessary. Parts cut through— (1) Skin; (2) superficial and deep fascia; (3) the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; (4) internal oblique; (5) transversalis muscle- (6) then the dull white transversalis fascia—in dividing this fascia, raise a small part at the lower end of the Avound with the forceps, and make a small incision with the edge of the knife held horizontally, just as in opening the sheath of an artery, and afterwards enlarge this opening with a probe-pointed bistoury, a finder beiuc^ introduced and the peritoneum detached, or, perhaps better, open°it on Spence's hernia director. The special advantages .of this director for the operation under consideration are that it is