Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 485 aiiglo at the knee can be altered in like manner. At the lower cud there is a piece cut away, opposite the heel and tendo achiUis, to prevent undue pressure. ' In applying this splint, the first thing to be done is to fasten a strip of bandage or a handkerchief across the space at tlie lower end to prevent the heel faUing backwards through the gap. The splmt must now be very todl padded, so that the limb may rest oa rather than in it; but the foot piece must be padded separately, ihe hmb IS now laid on the splint, and the foot fixed to the foot piece by a handkerchief or roller bandage passed behind the splint at the heel, then, making a figure-of-eight round tbe ankle and foot he ends being fastened to a button on the sole of the foot-piece.' ihe foot-piece is then to be screwed to a right angle, and the limb fastened to the splint by interrupted circles of broad bandage or plaster. If a continuous roUer is used, then we cannot examine the frac ure without undoing the whole bandage. Screw the knee into such a position that the fractured ends are in apposition-in fracture at the lower end of the femur this will be nearly a ri^ht angle Coyer up the screw behind the knee joint, lest the patient meddle with it, and change the angle into a less irksome position and swing the limb, splint and all, or else fasten the iron bar behind the heel firmly to a wooden block, so as to get the requii-ed lieight,_ and also for the purpose of steadying the splint. This splint IS also used by some in fracture of the bones of the le- For Children.-(l) The Double Long Splint may bemused, connected at the bottom by a transverse bar; this is necessary because of the restlessness of the patient. The two splints should be wider apart at their lower ends, and not parallel with each other ^.r the use of the bed-pan. (2) Bkyant's method of Vertical Suspension of the broken limb. A posterior splint is applied irom the heel to the nates, and short splints on the sides and ront of the thigh, strapping having been previously attached to the leg for the purposes of extension. The limb is then slun- up to a hook in the ceiling, or some other convenient point, so as to keep the limb at right angles to the body. Ey this means the bandages arc kept clean, and the weight of the body acts as a constant counter-extending force; one or both legs nmv be so placed. ^