12 E. & S. Livingstone, Publishers, Second Edition, price 6s. THE Student's IIaiid-l)ook of Chemistry By H. LEICESTER GEEVILLE, F.I.O., F.O.S., eto. This book contains a large amount of information, condensed into Tables; also, the most important Chemical Calculations and Illustrations. ' Tlie tabulation of facts, containing groups of elements and com- pounds, is a good feature in tliis book, and likely to prove very useful to the student. The chapters dealing with Organic Chemistry are clear and succinct.'—Nature. ' This book has many merits. It is clearly and pleasantly written, is well arranged, and contains a great deal of useful and important fact, much of it embodied in Tables.'—Lancet. ' A concise and useful Manual. The work has been revised and made more valuable by the addition of several Tables and much new matter in the text. The calculations are very useful.'—Scotsman. ' A series of Tables forms a useful feature of the work.'—Pharma- ceutical Journal. ' The work deals with both Organic and Inorganic Chemistry, and much information has been compressed into small compass. It is well adapted as a hand-book for medical students, being furnished with a copious index, and the text given in such a form as will render it readily accessible to the student. We commend the work to the attention of Canadian students.'—Canarfiosra Lancet. ' This compact and handy little Manual will be found a useful guide by ordinary and especially .medical stxidents.'— Medical Preri and Gazette. ' The work before us, however, may claim some very decided merits. We may venture to say that the author's primary object is to enable the student not so much to "pass" as to "kuow." He has appended tothe treatise a very useful glossary or collection of definitions of[the principal terms used in Chemistry.'—Chemical News. . . , , 'This is an excellent Manual, and is likely to maintain ^its, place among the many manuals of Chemistry. It is likely to be populai- with students '—Edinhimjh Medical Jimrnal. . • , ' This is an elementary treatise embodying several valuable original features, among them Tables and examples for general Chemical calculations, also Tables in which a great deal of information has been compressed into a small space, making it more accessible to tUe student.'—American Chemical Review,