Applicd A natoiny: 36G comfort; and movement in anij direction, bnt especially that of flexion and extension, as the biceps is thus called into plaj', will give rise to acute pain. This serves to distinguish this condition from another very common one in this region, viz., injury to, from a wrench or twist of the arm, or disease ol', the large sub- acromial bursa; in this case, flexion and extension do not give rise to any great pain, whereas active abduction, by sipieeziiig the bur.sa, causes acute pain. Further, in inflammation of this bursa we may detect fluctuation at the anterior and posterior borders of the deltoid, and -when the Surgeon abducts the arm, movement of the shoulder joint is not painful, as the abduction relaxes the deltoid, and thus lessens the pressure on the bursa. In "dropsy" of the shoulder joint, the arm may be lengthened from the stretching of the long loose capsule; the arm may be l)ushed up into its proper place but falls down again Avlien the elevating force is withdrawn. Dislocations.—Dislocation of tliis joint is chielly met with in middle and advanced life. The strength of the jomt is due to muscles, and it is therefore very liable to dislocation. It orfwr.s- when the arm is abducted and the muscles caught off their guard, or overpowered, as in falls or blows on the shoulder, elbow, or hand, with the arm outstretched; also if the hand is fixed in this position, and a blow struck on the upper part of the humerus. It is further said to be sometimes due to forcible abduction, or violent contraction of the muscles as in lifting a heavy weight. "Whatever the cause may be, the bone always escapes from the capsule at its lower and anterior ]>art, as in the position of abduction the head presses on this part, which is the thinnest and least supported portion of the whole capsular ligament. It does not go straight downwards on account of the long head of the triceps, but passes to the front of that muscle. All dislocations, therefore, of the shoulder are primarily subglenoid. The position Avhich the head of the bone ultimately assumes depends on various circumstances— (1) The direction and amount of the force causing the dislocation; (2) the narrow axillary bordei' of the scapula, so that the bone lies on a sort of knife edge and is readily displaced to one or other side ; and (3) the relati\'e strength of the muscles on the IVout and back of the joint, and especially the presence of the long head ol the