Surgical, Ilfedica/, and Opcrati-ve. 207 value. Yox the sake of practice on the dead body we will give a short account of what may be styled the classical methods of amputating the thumb and its metacarpal bone. 1. The Flap or V-shaped Method. —The most convenient position to hold the hand is one midway between pronation and supination, for then it may be pronated or supinated as required, the manipulations differing somewhat on the two sides; the fingers are to be held out of the Avay by the same assistant. The Surgeon may most conveniently, I think, stand in front of the hand. He grasps the tip of the thumb, keeping it extended and slightly adducted, and clearly fixes in his own mind the position of tlie carpo-metacarpal articulation. On the left side.—The knife is entered on the dorsal aspect of the thumb about half-an-inch above the base of the metacarpal bone and then carried obliquely over Its ulnar side till it divides the structures forming the web between the index finger and thumb, the point of division beiiK-' rather nearer the thumb than the index finger. The hand is then supinated, and the thumb bent inwards towards the centre of the palm to relax the muscles forming tlie ball of the thumb- and the knife, without ever having been withdrawn from the wound IS made to transfix the ball passing close in front of the metacarpal bone and its point brought out at the first incision at the base of the bone. Tlie thumb is then extended and abducted to render the muscles tense, and the edge of tlie knife turned towards tlie skin and a fiap cut from the muscles forming the ball, the line of tho mcision being made to correspond to the dorsal incision, so that when the disarticulation is completed, an elliptical and shapely wound remains. The dorsal flap should now be dissected back a ittle, the Surgeon himself holding the flap and giving the thumb to the assistant in the meantime, or vice versa. The thumb is now to be over-extended and the joint between it and tho trapezium opened, the remaining structures divided, and the digit removed, making the palmar flap care must be taken not to lock the knife rr^Kft ' u''''T''^'^ *° "^'^^^ ^''''^'^^'^ of the blade m st be altered slightly, by turning its edge a little towards the ^Iknuf T'^"'^ f'"--^! ''^'^ «f ^dis- articulation, the edge of the knife must be kept close to the bone avoid injury to the radial, and the radialis indicis arteries