Sitrgica/, Medical, and Operative. 373 suifucu of the humerus, lines the coronoid and olecranon fos8;p, lines the inner surface of the various parts of the capsular liga- ment and extends for some distance up the liumerus, beneath the tendon of the triceps, and lastly lines the lesser sigmoid cavity and inner surface of the orbicular ligament, and covers the head and neck of the radius. The Arteries are derived from the A-arious vessels that anastomose around the joint; its Nerves are derived from the ulnar and Jiiusculo-cutaneous. The Ligaments are—1. The Anterior, very thin, passing from the humerus above the coronoid fossa to the anterior surface of the coronoid process, and orbicular ligament. 2. The Posterio); also very thin, passing from the humerus above the olecranon fossa to the upper surfece and anterior edge of the olecranon process. 3. Internal Lateral, consisting of two parts —(«) anterior part, from the front of the internal condyle of the liumerus to the inner margin of the coronoid process; and {h) posterior ^xirt, from the lower and back part of the internal condyle to the inner margin of the olecranon process, and a fibrous band spanning the groove between the olecranon and coronoid processes. 4. Mrtertial Lateral, from the external condyle of the humerus to blend below with the orbicular ligament. The lateral ligaments are very powerful. Movements.—1. Flc.don—By (a) biceps; (h) brachialis anticus; (c) supinator longus (this muscle is chiefly a fle.vor, ljut does not act till flexion has been begun by the other muscles); (d) pronator radii teres (after pronation is completed, or when it is prevented Ijy other muscles), and indirectly l)y the flexors of the wrist and fingers. 2. Kde^i-vmi—By (a) triceps and anconeus; (/;) supinator brevis, and indirectly by the extensors of the wrist and fingers. The movements of the joint are limited by ligaments, not by locking of the bones. THE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. I. Tlie Superior Radio-Ulnar, whidi is a lateral ginglymus, and may be regarded as a part of the elbow joint, lias one ligament, the orbicular or anmdar. TT. The IVliddle Radio-Ulnar has two ligaments —(1) Tlie oljliriuc 01' r(jund ligament, which passes downwards and outwards,