Snrgicnl, Medical, nud Operative. 325 III. Another inetliod of operating is by two Lateral Incisions ihe inner should be made first, and is shorter than the outer' which may be made of any convenient length. The external lateral ligament is divided an.l the head of the radius removed • and then the humerus is to be disarticulated and forced out at the external wound, and divided by a narrow-bladed saw; next tlie ulna IS cleared, protruded, and sawn. The advantages claimed are- 1) Less injury to triceps; (2) it provides better drainage; and 1(6) the scars are lateral and not posterior. In the case of Partial Excision of the elbow joint, where the lower end of the humerus alone is removed, it is necessary to do It through lateral incisions, as it is impossible to reach the joint from behind, on account of the olecranon process. It may be done through a single long internal lateral incision, but it is usually necessary to use a short external as well, so as to divide the stron'c. externa lateral ligament. This is an operation that may be required_ in ankylosis from injury, and after fractures about the elbow joint in children. The real condition has probably not been recog,,3ed at the time of the accident, and by-and-by the joint becomes stiff and useless. In such cases be speciaUy careful of the idnar nerve, as it will probably be displaced or enveloped in a mass of new bone Ihe lower end of tlie humerus is divided into two portions by the bone pliers, and the separated parts are then removed In tins way the insertions of the triceps and the brachialis anticus mto the ulna are left intact. Excision of the elbow is a less fatal operation tlian amputation of the arm. An occasional cause of death IS suppurative inflammation of the medullary cavity of the humerus, causing osteo-phlebitis, pyaemia, and deatli. THE WRIST. Complete exci.sion of the wrist includes removal of the ends of t^.e radiu.s and ulna, all the carpal bones, and the bases of the .metacarpal bones as well (see Pig. G.5). It may be required for fn urf T'-'' ;''i-'; '■""^1^'^^'"^^ '-^"'^ comminuted mcture,_ compound dislocation, and gun-shot wound; few cases ex ion for injury are on recor.l. In the Crimea three case of y St injury were excised, with only one .leath. (2) DUea^e as -rofulous canes, excited by soi.o .slight injury, as a piin; el i^n