471 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The limb lies extended and helpless, and there is usually marked eversion in both cases, partly perhaps because this is the natural position of the limb, but chiefly from the action of the psoas and iliacus muscles, the adductors, the glutei and other external rotators of the hip joint. The shortening of the limb is caused by the glutei muscles, rectus femoris, and hamstring muscles (biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus). The cause of eversion in impacted extra-capsular fracture is probably due, as Bigelow has pointed out, to the thinness and less resisting nature of the compact sheU of bone on the posterior surface of the neck of the fennu-, as compared with the anterior. It therefore yields more readily, "crushes up and becomes impacted." Intra-Capsular may be either impacted or non-impacted. In impacted the lower fragment is driven into the upper. The predisposing cause is the changes already mentioned as occurring in the direction and internal structure of the neck of the femur° the exciting cause, some very slight indirect violence, as tripping on a stone, turning in bed, etc., and, as a result of the snapping of the neck of the bone, the patient drops down. It is especially apt to occur in women beyond a certain age. There are no signs of bruising in the first instance, but in three or four days a characteristic staining often appears in Scarpa's triangle, when the effused blood has had time to reach the surface. In some cases, probably from the nature of the cause, the fracture is, in the first instance, sub-periosteal, so that there would be little or no shortening, as the fragments are held in position by the periosteum and the cervical reflection of the capsular ligament; but later' these structures soften and yield, either from the movements of the hmb, or from inflammatory softening, as will also the capsular ligament itself, which is not, in the first instance, torn. In a few rare cases there may be inversion of the limb probably because more of tlie anterior part of the neck is crushed up than of the posterior, or else the anterior part of the cervical reflection is not torn. These facts explain the slow appearance of the shortening, so often noticed in intra-capsular fracture, and which is apt to mislead the incautious Surgeon; or, again, the sudden increase of shortening under manipulation. The limb lies helpless, extended and everted, but can be moved freely by the Surgeon in all