Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 71' M'ound afterwards, a drainage tube must be used with great caution, its free cud being protected from pressure lest the other end ulcerate its way into the artery. It must be removed in from thirty-six to forcy-eight hours. i^OTE.—(1) In thick-set, short-necked persons the artery is usually deeply seated; it may be below the level of the clavicle, or hut slightly above it. (2) In thin, long-necked persons its course is usually high, and, therefore, is much more easily reached and ligatured. (3) The clavicle in some cases is very much curved. "\A'hen this is the case, the depth of the vessel from the surface is increased, and is therefore more difficult to ligature. An aneurism in the axilla will produce the same effect, by raising the clavicle, and will complicate the operation considerably, as the shoulder cannot in this case be depressed ; a similar result may be produced by emphysema of the lung. (4) The artery may pass in front of, or through the anterior scalenus; the clavicular head of the sterno- mastoid, instead of being confined in its origin to the inner third of the posterior surface of the clavicle, may pass beyond its usual V limit outwards along the clavicle, and conceal the artery; and the trapezius may also pass further inwards than it usually does, and overlap the vessel. In five per cent, of the cases, the omo-hyoid arises from the middle third of the clavicle, and, therefore, covers the artery. When this condition is encountered the miiscle must be divided in order to reach the vessel. (5) The posterior scapular artery frequently, and sometimes the supra-scapular, may spring from this part. (6) The external jugular vein should lie just external to the sterno-mastoid; but, very frequently, it is more external, and passes beneath the deep fascia just above the middle of the clavicle, crossing the third part of the subclavian artery, and emptying itself into the subclavian vein. While it lies over the artery it receives the supra-scapular and transversalis colli veins, and in this region also communicates with the anterior jugular and cephalic veins. In this way a plexus of veins is formed in front of the artery. If any of the large venous trunks must be cut in the operation, a double ligature should be first applied and the vein divided between. The subclavian vein may rise as liigh as the level of the clavicle, or may lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. (7) A cord formed by tlie eiglith cervicle and Jirst dorsal