Snrgiai/, .]fc-dic<t/, and Opcfativf. 17.-. communis digitorum. Tlie breadth of tlie muscle in an ordinary- sized individual may be regarded roughly as two finger-breadths. 1*. In the Middle Third—The steps of this operation resemble very closely those of the previous one. The incision need not be (juite so long, nor so far from the anterior border of the tibia, and whou the deep fascia is opened take the tibialis anticus as the guide. Flex the ankle and separate the flexor proprius hallucis from the tibialis anticus, when the vessel will be exposed resting on the interosseous membrane. Separate it from its venfe comites and anterior tibial nerve, and ligature secundum urtem. 3. In the Lower Third.—The vessel is more easily reached in this situation, as the bulk and depth of the muscles are much diminished. An incision should be made in the line of the vessel two inches long, about three-quarters of an inch from the anterior edge of the tibia upon the outer side of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and parallel Math it; at this point the tibialis anticus is much narrower than it is at the upper part of the leg, and the extensor proprius hallucis lies to the outer side of the artery. At this point, therefore, the artery lies between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius hallucis, with the nerve to its outer side, and rests on the lower end of the tibia. The steps of the operation are similar to those described above. When tlie tendons are exposed, flex the ankle and with blunt hooks hold them apart while the vessel is separated from the surrounding structures and ligatured. Branches.—(1) The anterior tibial recurrent; (2) muscular; (3) internal malleolar; (4) external malleolar, whicli is larger than the internal, and anastomoses with the anterior peroneal artery. Collateral Circulation.—For this, see anastomoses, from 3 to G, inclusive, in "Collateral Circulation" under the "Posterior Tibial Artery." Dorsalis Pedis Artery.—Origin.—It is the direct continuation of the anterior tibial artery. Extent.—From tlic centre of the instop, beneath tlie anterior annular ligament, to the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, where it divides into the com- municating branch to the sole of the foot and the dorsal artery of the great toe. Course.—Its course is from the centre of the instep to the cleft between the first two toes. Relations.—It is