Applied Anatomy: 20 operative measures recommeBcled for radical cure are—(1) Indirect pressure, digital or instrumental; (2) flexion; but both these plans are probably of little use as there is no distinct sac, and therefore little tendency to the formation of a proper coagulum as in aneurism; (3) injection of coagulating fluids; (4) ligature of the artery above and below its communication with the vein. If aneurismal varix occurs within the skull, it may be necessary to resort to the Hunterian method, and ligature the common or internal carotid. The Treatment of a Varicose Aneurism must be conducted on different principles. Here there is a constant tendency to increase in size, and it must not be left to take its own course as it will either become diffuse through the limb, or ulcerate and give way externaUy. Various methods have been proposed for its cure— (1) The "old operation," as in ordinary false aneurism answers very weU, especiaUy if it is done early enough, before the coats of the vessel have become so altered that they will not bear a ligature. Mr Stme treated ten cases in this way—" Opening the sac and applying ligatures on both sides of the aperture." Some recom- mend that the sac should not be opened, but simply isolate the artery and tie it above and below (Roux, Fergusson). In either case the special dangers are—(a) Htemorrhage from the part of the artery above the sac; (&) gangrene of the limb below the sac. (2) Injection of coagulating fluids, such as a weak solution of neutral ferric chloride, with the usual precautious; (3) com- pression, direct and indirect; (4) galvano-puncture; (5) expectant, i.e., do nothing; (6) amputation. The Treatment of Cirsoid Aneurism reqmres great caution as the methods usuaUy adopted often fail directly, or though for a time apparently successful, yet relapses are very frequent, and occasionally even a fatal termination lias followed operations undertaken for the rehef of this condition. Undoubtedly the best method of treatment is that introduced and perfected by l)r John Duncan of Edinburgh, viz.-electrolysis, or galvano-punciure Dr Duncan, who ia probably the greatest authority on the subject of electrolysis in the treatment of aneurism, najvi, etc., has used this method with remarkable and unvarying success for very many .cars The cure is produced in two ways-(l) By coagulation of tlu3 blood; (2) by cauterising the walls of the arteries. Ihe I