Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 237 over-extended, the strong flexor tendons cut, and the joint opened from beknv j tlie toe is then to be twisted round as the knife divides the hxteral ligaments and completes the disarticulation. "The key to easy disarticulation of the toe is complete division of the strong flexor tendons, and to eflPect this at once I extend the toe forcibly upwards as soon as the incisions in the soft parts are completed ; and this enables me to twist the toe so as easily to open the joint and divide the lateral ligaments " (Spence). The head of the metatarsal bone should be left, if possible, untouched. By making the straight part of the incision on the dorsum of the foot we avoid any scar on the lateral aspect, which mi^ht prove inconvenient, being irritated and pressed upon by the boot; It IS a good plan to make the inner side of the oval larger than the outer, so as to fold over the face of the metatarsal bone. The sesamoid bones may or may not be removed. Should the operator decide to leave them, it may be more convenient to open the joint from above, and divide the flexor tendons afterwards. In the case of the other toes exactly the same principles must be followed, and it is unnecessary, therefore, to go over them in detail. In all cases the oval method is to be preferred. Of course, as in the fingers, it can be done by two small lateral semi-lunar flaps, but this has the disadvantage of opening into the sole Again, if preferred, in the case of tlie great and little toes (just as m the case of the index and little fingers), a specially laroe flap may be taken from the free side of each to fold over the end of the bones. Amputation of the Great Toe with its IVIetatarsal Bone.— Ihis should be done l,y tlie "racket-shaped" incision. The foot IS held as before, and the operator commences the incision on the dorsum, about half-an-inch behind the tarso-metatarsal articulation and carries it along the dorsal aspect to near the metacarp<v Phalangeal articulation, from which point the oval is made round the toe. Tlie integuments are then to be separated fr.mi tlie l^oiic on the inner side by applying the knife nearly parallel with the toes, and u.sing it with a short sawing movement, its Cfigc being kept close to tlic bone and well under co„tr.,l