Applied Anatomy: 26 in connection with the sheatli of the vessel which they perforate, and then divide into smaller branches between the sheath and the vessel, before ending in the outer coat. The nerves form fine plexuses in which minute ganglia are sometimes found; tliey penetrate as far as the middle coat, to the muscular tissue of which they are chiefly distributed. In arterial hajmorrhage the blood is bright red, forced out in a jet, and per saltum, and pressure on the proximal side retards or stops the flow: but if the patient be inhaling ether or nitrous oxide gas the blood will be dark, and if the blood flow along a narrow sinuous wound the jetting character wiU be lost. In venous htemorrhage there is a rapid flow of pm-ple or black blood in a continuous stream, and pressure on the distal side retards; but if the blood be exposed for a short time to the air it rapidly becomes red. Capillary hajmorrhage is recognised by an oozing of bright blood from the whole surface of the wound, aud not from special points. MATERIAL OF LIGATURE. For a long time a single thread of strong waxed silk was the substance used. It was "waxed" to make it less slippery, and therefore more easily tied, to prevent the knot slipping after it was tied, and, lastly, and most important, to make it non-absorbent. Usually one end of the ligature was cut close to the knot, and the other end left hanging out at the corner of the wound, and fixed there by a small piece of plaster; at the end of ten days or a fortnight, or more, as the case might be (dependmg on the size of the artery tied), when the healing process was completed, the ligature was pulled away. The security of the vessel was first ascertained by gently twirling the thread between the finger and thumb, when a yielding sensation indicated that the process was complete, and that the ligature might be safely removed without the risk of secondary ha3morrhage. Sometimes both ends of the silk ligature were cut short, and, in rare instances, it became encapsuled and gave no further trouble. _ The chief objections to the silk ligature aro-(l) It is a foreign body in the wound; and (2) it separates by a process of ulceration or slougliing: a ring of granulations form on each side of the noose