Applied Anatomy: 302 distance, before the head of the bone is dislodged. On the left side the only difference in the operation is, that the straight incision is made from below upwards. The late Professor Spence, for some time before his death (1882), used this method in special cases—cases of amputation after failure of excision in hip-joint disease; he used the steel skewer and elastic bands to control the vessels. He thus describes the operation:—" The Surgeon, with a short knife such as that used for amputation at the ankle, cuts from the outside directly upon the great trochanter and shaft of the femur to an extent sufBcient to form a covering. The limb is then brought across the opposite one, so as to tilt out the upper part of the femur, and then, keeping the edge of the knife cutting on the inner aspect of the bone, it is cleared on its internal side. Then all the operator has to do to complete the amputation is to cut through the soft parts, at the lowest point where they are separated from the femur. This may be effected by one circular sM'eep of the knife, but a neater result is obtained by shaping the margins slightly convex. The great vessels are tied where they are divided by the circular incision; then the anterior india-rubber band is removed from the limb, and any vessels which bleed are secured; next, the posterior compressing band is taken off, the skewer withdrawn, and the bleeding vessels tied. As to arrest of bleeding, it wiU be observed that there is no deep or large cut surface to furnish much ha3mor- rhage. The great vessels are divided in the circular division at the extremity of the stump, and the manner in which the shaft of the femur is separated from the soft parts causes only a superficial wound on the outside of the stump. There are no surfaces, as when flaps are formed." In amputations through the hip joint the following is a list of the chief Structures divided—1. The integumentary covermgs. 2. Muscles—(cO Pectineus, (6) the three adductors, (f) the gracilis, (cZ) the sartorius, (e) the tensor fasci£e femoris, (/) the upper part of the quadriceps extensor cruris (rectus and part of vasti), {g) the obturator internus and tlie two gemelli, (A) the obturator externus, U) the pyriformis, (7) the three hamstrings (the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, and the semi-membrauosus), (Z;) the three glutei muscles, (Z) the quadratus femoris, and (w) the psoas and iliacus.