I Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 227 divide the autcrior circumllex artery, which must be secured at once. The incision is then carried, with a gentle curve, across and deeply tlirough the lower hbres of the deltoid as far as the posterior fold of the axilla (Fig. 44). The course of the inner incision is next outlined from the end of the straight incision to the termination of the curved incision at the posterior border of the axilla, but must extend tlirough shin and fat only. The deltoid muscle is'next separated from the bone by the fingers alone, so as not to injure the trunk of the circumflex artery which enters its deep surface, and, having done so, the head and upper part of the humerus is fully exposed. The muscles about the head and capsular ligament are next divided by cutting directly down on the anatomical neck of the humerus, the assistant in the meantime rotating the bone so as to bring the various muscles within reach of the knife. The large external flap is then kept out of the way by the fingers of an assistant, or a broad copper spatida, the knife is passed behind the bone, disarticulation completed, and the arm removed by dividing the remaining soft tissues on the axillary aspect, the axillary arter^ and vein being previously grasped by an assistant; this prevents immediate danger from haemorrhage, and also avoids the risk of the entrance of air into the vein. In very muscular limbs the skin and subcutaneous tissues sliould be dissected up for a little way and then the muscles divided at a higher level. The advantages of this method are-(l) The fulness and better form of stump left after healing. (2) The posterior circumflex artery is not divided except in its small terminal twigs in front; whereas, both in amputation by the large deltoid flap and the double flap metliods, the trunk of the artery is divided in the early stages of the opera- tion often giving rise to considerable hismorrliage. In the case uf tlic single deltoid flap, the division of this vessel endangers Its vitality, as the flap depends chiefly on it for its nourishment. (3) The great ease with which disarticulation can be accomplished and especially the division of the tendon of tlic sul.scapularis muscle. (4) As already mentioned, it is further of great value m cases of doubt as to whetlicr the joint should be excised amputated. The first part of the incision is made use of to examine tlic joint, and tlicn tlie Surgeon acts according to tlio t'ondition in whicli he finds it.