570 Applied Anatomy: CEREBRAL ABSCESS. Cerebral Abscess following Ear Disease.— Cerebral abscess is one of the most serious complications of disease of the middle or internal ear. It may he situated either in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, which it reaches by passing in some way through the roof of the tympanic cavitj^, or in the cerebellum, which it reaches either from the mastoid process, or by passing through the internal ear and internal auditory meatus; from the latter source it may occasionally attack the pons and medulla. Contrary to the usually received statement it appears that cerebral abscess is much more common than cerebellar at all ages; but, as a matter of fact, this is what might naturally be expected. As regards the exact nature of the abscess it is impossible to say with certainty; there can be no doubt, however, that the two conditions under which it is most likely to arise are—tension and sexisis. The abscess itself may be due—(1) To direct spread of the inflamma- tion from the ear; (2) it may be reflex, or "sympathetic," in nature; (3) it may be due to minute venous or lymphatic septic emboli; or, lastly, (4) the septic inflammation beneath the brain substance has rendered that part of the brain a point of least resistance, and the septic organisms absorbed into the blood from the increased tension find it a suitable soil for their growth and development. In cases of middle ear suppuration, when the tympanic membrane gives way by a large opening, the tension is relieved, but the chances of the admission of septic organisms are very much in- creased; the pus tends to pass backwards and involve the mastoid cells, which form a specially favourable seat for the reception and lodgment of fermented and fermenting pus. It is also evident that tension will be increased when, as not unfrequently happens, granulations and polypi spring up from the carious cavity and block up the openings of the mastoid cells, or even the external auditory meatus itself. This is now, par excellence, the condition that is most likely to result in cerebral abscess. It has been observed that the temperature is often abnormally low in cerebral abscess, and the pulse unnaturally slow; the pupils are dilated, and there is much mental confusion and torpor, usually passing on, unless relieved, to coma and death.