144 Applied Anatomy: though ofteu called Abernethy's, is not, strictly speaking, the incision he used; he first tied this vessel in 1796, but made his incision in the course of the vessel. Abernethy's incision is said to leave a gi-eat tendency to hernia, due to the injury to, and the consequent weakening of, the muscular planes; this tendency may be partiaUy obviated by the careful application of deep sutures. Its chief advantage is, that one may ligature the vessel at any part of its course, or even, if necessary, tie the common iliac, and it is, tlierefore, to be preferred Avhen operatijig in cases of spontaneous aneurism. The structures dialed and the steps of the operation are the same as in ligature of the common ihac. After the peritoneum is stripped up, the loose cellular tissue sheath surrounding the vessel must be carefully scratched through with the finger nail, aided by a director, or the point of the aneurism needle; when sufficiently cleared pass the needle from within outwards to avoid injury to the vein. The incision must not be carried too far downwards lest the deep epigastric vessels, or the internal abdominal ring and the structures passing thi-ough it, be implicated; fiu'ther, it should not be too near Poupart's ligament, lest the deep circumflex iliac artery be cut. Special care must be taken not to include the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve in the ligature, as this nerve lies on the artery, or wound_ tlic peritoneum. In four cases of ligature of this arterj^ the patients died from tetanus, probably from implication of the nerve in question The chief causes of death after this operation are- (1) Gangrene, especially Hkely to occur when the deep epigastric is injured; (2) secondary heemorrhage, especially when the vessel is diseased, or when it is tied too near its origin, or, again, when tied too near Poupart's ligament; and (3) peritonitis. _ Other dangers of this operation are-injury to the external ihac vem, and liffature of the genito-crural nerve. ... °8ir Astley Cooper's Incision.-Make a semi-lunar incision extending from an inch internal to the anterior superior ihac spine to half-an-inch external to the external abdominal ring, Ijalf-an-inch above Poupart's ligament; the incision should be about tlnee inches in length with its centre over the artery. This incision Sy exposes the artery at the lower part, and sliouH be made L nearly s possible, in the direction uf the Ubrcs ol the external