Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 349 There are various forms of incision used:—1. Hancock's—Au incision beginning behind and about two inches above the external nialleohis, carrying it forwards beneath that process, tlien in front of the ankle joint, and terminating about two inches above and behind the inner malleolus. This incision must not penetrate beyond the deep fascia, so that the tendons and their sheaths are uninjured. 2. The best method is by means of two Lateral Incisions passing below the two malleoli—one along the inner and posterior margin of the tibia, beginning about two and a half inches above the internal malleolus and passing below it, and then curving forwards round it towards the tendon of the tibialis anticus; the other is of the same extent and form, and is made along the outer margin of the fibula, curving round the external malleolus and forwards towards tlie tendon of the peroneus tertius. It is better to cut rather on tlie posterior edge of the hones, and then use a periosteum elevator to turn oif and raise up the tendons in their sheaths; in this way they are protected from injury. This incision closely resembles Barwell's, only he turned forwards at the malleoli at an angle and not in a gently-rounded fashion; it is simply Hancock's without the anterior connection. 3. It is also possible to excise the joint through the External Incision alone (Buchanan), with, should the disarticulation prove difficult, a short straight incision over the internal malleolus, just sufficient to enable the operator to divide the internal lateral ligament. Whatever method be adopted, there must be no division of tendons, not even those tliat act primarily on the anlde joint proper; because, though the ankle joint be ankylosed, yet the numerous joints in front of this become more mobile and to a great extent make up for it. By the Two Lateral Incisions.—The limb is emptied of blood by vertical suspension as usual, and the elastic tourniquet applied a little above the knee. The foot is laid on its inner side, and tlie Surgeon, standing in front of it, makes tlio external incision on the posterior edge of the fibula, according to the rules already laid down ; tlie flap of skin is then dissected upwards, so as to expose the external malleolus and the lower end of the shaft of the fibula. The deep fascia and periosteum are next to be divided on the posterior edge of the fibula, and the pcrouei tendons