2 Applied Anatomy: II.—By a Sacculated Aneurism is meant a tumour springing ftom the side of an artery, or from a tubular aneurism, with the interior of which it communicates by a narrow opening called the mouth of the sac. (a) In true sacculated, the sac waU is formed by all the coats of the vessel; (&) in false sacculated, the internal or middle coat, or both, are deficient, and the wall of the sac therefore is formed by the outer and middle coats only, or else by the outer coat alone. To this latter condition the name of circumscribed false aneurism is sometimes applied; diffused false aneurism means that the sac of the aneurism is not formed by the coats of the artery at all, but by the tissues outside the vessel; the blood being either confined by the condensed tissues of the part into a cvi-cumscrihed tumour, or else widely diffused in the loose cellular tissue. III.—Dissecting Aneurism—In this form the internal coat ot the artery becomes eroded, or an atheromatous abscess bursts, and the blood makes its way through the ulcer or erosion and burrows between the coats of tlie vessel. As a result of this, it may either burst through all the coats and be effused into the sur- rounding tissues, or, if the external coat be strong, enough to resist the rupture, the blood travels along between the coats for some distance, and again opens into the cavity of the artery; or, thu-dly, it may form a sac in the middle coat, which may remain for a time unaltered, but which wiU, in all probability, eventually bui;st externaUy. Tliis form of aneurism is met with most frequently in women, , , ■, , va? «- Various other methods of classification are adopted by different wiiters, e.g., some divide aneurisms simply mto-.-(l) rue, .vhere the sac waU is formed by one or more of the coats of the vessel; this form being associated with disease of the artery. (2) False, where the tissues oidside the vessel form the sac wall; this form being caused by a wound of the artery, or else by the burstins of a true aneurism. Othm again di.ick thorn into:-(!) Spontaneous, or that associated with disease. (2) Traumatic tam one o three for,„s ■ tmumatism—(o) a direct M'ound; (h) a stram or buiise , or w r *'«,/ond of a fractured hone penetratir,g the vesseh (3) Arterio-venous. ('t) Cirsoid.