Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 481 square foot-piece, and then the foot-piece fastened to the horns of the sphnt; m this way all pressure is avoided on the instep and ankle, and extension secured in a straight line, thus avoiding eversion ot the foot. Thick pads of boracic lint are then to be placed alono- the side, and " bird-nest" pads applied over all prominent points" as the hip, knee, and malleoli. Then bring the free end of the sheet i-ound over the limb, and fasten tightly to the folds of sheet round the sphn , by means of long pins, thrust vertically across the line 0 the splint; the pins should be made of steel, spring-tempered otherwise they are apt to snap, and should have large round heads! Ihe upper end of the splint is now to be fastened to the trunk by iBcans of a broad flannel bandage, or kitchen roller, folded once or twice. The foot having been already secured to the horns of the sphnt, finally make extension by ^ullincj on the perineal hand and fastening It tightly to the two holes in the upper end of the splint 1 his IS the most important part of the whole apparatus; by puHiuc: on the perineal band the splint is forced downwards, and with it the eg as the foot is firmly fastened to the splint. On the other hand, should we try to extend by tightening the handkerchief or tapes at the foot, the splint is forced upwards, and with it the a ull at the handkerchief at the foot; and, as a rule, nine students out of every ten will tell you that this is how the limb is to be lengthened. The above is all that is required in fracture of the necl« of the emur. But in fractures of the shaft we require, in addition, padded GoocH splints; in fractures of the ai d l ^oer parts of the shaft, the splints must be antero-posterioi' in fractl «.rough the middle part of the bone, the splints shouid be W.l The splints are festened by slip-knots, which must be tied over the ^nner szde ov front of the thigh; because if tied on the outer side they could not be tightened or loosened without undoin. the whole apparatus. Some use a continuous roller to fasten the splint instead of the sheet, but it is better not to do so, because the fracture cannot be seen without undoing the whole bandage, thus causing unnecessary trouble and pain, and disturbing the f^ctured bon . There i.s no objection to using a "many-tailed" bandage tlnn tv ""^^ i« better I'Uan anytliing else. 2 H