Applied Anatomy: 524 the ciliaiy muscle—tlie muscle uf accommodatiou; it arises from tlie jDOsterior surface of the cornea and sclerotic junction close to the canal of Schlemm and the spaces of Fontana, and is inserted into the choroid, opposite the ciliary processes. The Avascular supply, like that of the choroid, is derived from the short ciliary arteries, (c) The iris—this is also a muscular structure, and forms a self- acting diaphragm, excluding or admitting light as required, like the diaphragm of a microscope, becoming narrower during active accommodation (equal to high puicer of microscope) and widening during passive accommodation (loiv j^oiuerj. It consists of the following structures :—(1) In front, a layer of epithehal cells, con- tinuous with those on the posterior surface of the cornea. (2) A stroma, formed of cells and connective tissue bundles arranged in a radiating manner towards the pupil, and which gives the iris a striated, fibrous look; when the iris is inflamed this fibrous look is lost, and the iris seems smooth and dull in appearance. (3) iSTon- striped muscular fibres arranged in a circular and radiating manner; the circular fibres form the spliinder pupiUce and surround the margin of the pupil, the radiating form the dilator pupillce. (4) The posterior surface is covered with pigment of a deep purple tint, known as the ^lvea. The vascular supply of the iiis is derived, for the most part, from the two long ciliary arteries which form the greater and the lesser arterial circles of the iris; it also receives blood from the anterior ciliary arteries, which are derived from the muscular branches, and which join the great arterial circle. The iris is very vascular, almost resembling erectile tissue, and it often affords important information as to the state of the cerebral circu- lation ; thus, when the brain is anfemic, as in typhoid fever, the pupil is dilated, but when the brain is engorged, as in typhus fever, the pupil is contracted. For the same reason it is also slightly contracted in iritis. The circular fibres are supplied by the third nerve, and the radiating by the sympathetic. In the fretus the pupil is closed by a delicate vascular membrane, which thus divides the chamber of the aqueous into two separate compartments—the memhrana piipillari>^; it begins to disappear about the seventh month, and has usually quite disappeared, vessels and all, before birth. Occasionally traces of it remain after birth, and occasionaUy it is permanent, causing blindness. In some animals it remains