539 Surgical, liledica/, and Operative. The exact course and origin of the fibres passing to each retina is still a disputed point. It is generally admitted that there is a partial decussation at the optic commissure, each tract supplying the corresponding half of each eye, e.g., the left tract supplying the left half of each eye. Should, therefore, this tract be destroyed by disease, there will be blindness of the left half of both retinte (which will thus correspond to the right half of each visual -field). This is known as Hnmonymous hemianopsia. On the other hand, a lesion situated in the anterior part of the optic commissure will produce blindness of the inner half of each eye (the right half of one eye but the left half of the other). This is called internal Heteronymous hemianoiosia. In the very rare and doubtful condition of e.dernal Heteronymous hemianopsia (blindness of the external half of each retina) there must be a double lesion situated at the outer margins of the sides of the optic commissure. But hemianopsia may also be caused by other conditions, such as detachment of the retina, and in Coloboma iridis—a congenital cleft or deficiency in the iris, due to the imperfect closure of the choroidal cleft of the foetus, usually affecting the choroid as well, always found at the lower and inner aspect, and therefore the upper and outer part of the visual field is deficient. It is very often symmetrical; the white patch is bounded by a dense Line of pigment, and over its surface the choroidal and retinal vessels may be seen. Occasionally small dermoid cysts of the iris are due to the unobliterated remains of this cleft; such cysts look like small white currants, semi-transparent, protruding into the anterior chamber, and partly occluding the pupil. Similar cysts may also arise as a result of a perforating wound of the cornea, whereby small pieces of DESCEArEr's membrane, epidermal scales, or eyelashes are transplanted on to tlie ii'is, and form the germs of cysts— " implantation dermoids " (IIulke). Detachment of the retina is due to serous exudation between it and the choroid; it may begin at any part, but always gravitates by-and-by to the loM'est part of tlie fundus. It is doubtful what would be the result of a lesioji situated in the visual centre. Chaucot believes that the fibres that do not decussate at the optic commissure have already decussated in the corpora quadrigcmiua, so that the right centre would in this way