350 Applied Anatomy: (longus and brevis) carefully turned aside in their groove behind the external malleolus by a periosteum elevator, so that the operator can pass his finger behind that bone; the tendons are then held aside with a blunt hook, and the external lateral liga- ment divided. The external malleolus is then grasped with the lion forceps, while the bone forceps or Macewen's chisel is used to divide the fibula opposite the upper limit of its articular surface —immediately above the broadest part of the malleolus, after which it is to be twisted out. The foot is now turned on its outer side and the inner incision made on the posterior edge of the tibia, the flap dissected up as before, and the deep fascia and periosteum divided on the posterior edge of the tibia; the structures at the inner side of the joint are then to be carefully separated from the bones by a periosteum elevator — tibialis posticus, the long flexor tendons of the toes, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerves, keeping close to the bone for the sake of the vessels. These being held aside, the internal lateral liga- ment is divided, or the internal malleolus may be treated as the external, being divided Avith a small saw, or Macewen's chisel, and then twisted out. Next, by a forcible wrench, dislocate the foot outwards, so as to make the astragalus project at the external wound, where its articular surface is removed, or the whole bone excised, according to the extent of the disease or injury. After this the tibia is protruded at the same wound, cleared, and divided. Some Surgeons prefer, the soft parts being held out of the way, to pass a narrow-bladed saw through the wounds, and saw the bones across longitudinally from before backwards, first the tibia and fibula, and then the astragalus; but the bones can be quite easily cut across with the Macewen's osteotome in dlu, and without the risk of leaving sawdust in the wound, and Avith less disturbance of parts. Branches of the anterior peroneal artery, and perhaps some of the malleolar twigs, will require ligature; the Avound should be drained from the external, or from both incisions. RESUME :— 1. ]\lake the external incision as directed, and separate the structures round it Avith the periosteum elevator. 2. Remove the external malleohis.