280 Applied AnatoDiy: 3. Witli these points in view, shape the anterior flap; it should he square-shaped with the angles rounded off, the base being on a level with the femoral tuberosities, and the apex almost on a level with the tubercle of the tibia. 4. Reflect this flap to the centre of the patella, then flex the knee forcibly, and let the knife sink into the tissues above the patella, down to the femur. 5. Reflect the soft parts to the level of the adductor tubercle, and divide the lateral and crucial ligaments. C. Pass the knife behind the femur, again extend the limb, and cut a posterior flap from within outwards about half the length of the anterior. 7. Clear the femur, and divide it through the condyles, just below the adductor tubercle. 2. Gritti's Amputation (sligldly modified).—This to a certain extent resembles very closely Cabden's amputation. AVe have the same guides for the anterior flap, Avhich is dissected up with tJie patella. The operation is finished as in Garden, the articular surface of the patella is sawn off, and tlie denuded surface hangs over the end of the femur. The femur is divided about one-third of an inch higher up than in Garden, to insure that the patella Avill hang flatly over it and not tilt. The point of division is above the " adductor tubercle." It has been advised, just as in amputation at the knee joint proper, to divide the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris, or "wire" the bones to keep it from tilting. This amputation, therefore, has the same relation to Garden's as Pirogoff's has to Stme's amputation at the ankle joint. Its great advantage is that the bursa pateUse is retained, upon which the patient can bear a great part of his weight ; there is probably also less risk of sloughing of the anterior flap. An alleged disadvantage is that, the femur being divided higher up, the medullary canal is more apt to be opened, and the patient therefore runs more risk of osteo-myelitis and its consequences, as section through the medullary canal is more risky than section through the spongy tissue, and this again is more risky than Avhere the end of the bone is covered with cartilage, as amputation at the knee joint. Further, for the same reason, the end of tlic stump is