81 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. foscia, platysma and deep fascia). (2) Sternal head of sterno-raastoid. (3) Sterno-hyoid. (4) Sterno-thyroid. (5) Crossed by omo-liyoid. (6) Above this point it enters the carotid triangle, is covered by the common investments of the parts overlapped by the steruo-mastoid, and crossed about the point commonly chosen for the ai^plication of a ligature by the sterno-mastoid artery from the superior thyroid. It is also crossed by (7) three veins—superior and middle thyroids, and the anterior jugular. (8) The descendens noni lies on (some- times in) the sheath. (9) In front of the superficial part there are some lymphatic glands; it is important to remember this, as a gland may be mistaken and cleaned for the artery. Further, these glands are apt to suppurate, and may simulate aneurism. (For the Diagnosis between Aneurism and Abscess, see page 6.) It is usually slightly overlapped by the steruo-mastoid at its upper part. BeUnd the sheath is—(1) The gangliated cord of the sympathetic; (2) the recurrent laryngeal nerve crossing obliquely inwards behind the sheath; (3) longus coUi; (4) rectus capitis anticus major; and behind these (5) the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra?., against which the vessel may be compressed during life. (6) The inferior thyroid artery also crosses obliquely inwards behind both the sheath and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. (See the " Branches of Subclavian.") (7) Behind the deep part of the sheath arc some lymphatic glands. To its inner side we have—(1) The larynx and trachea. (2) Pharynx and oesophagus. (3) Thyroid body. (4) Recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery. To the outer side, a chain of lymphatic glands and the scalenus anticus. It should be noted, however, Wiat though the glands at tlie lower part of the neck are behind the sheath, yet at the upper part many glands lie in front of the artery; it is important to keep this in mind as these glands may undergo chronic inflammation and suppuration, and closely simulate an aneurism. The above arc the chief relations of the carotid sheath. To assist the memory, note the following points in regard to the relations of the artery itself:-!. That there are four muscles in n-ont of it, viz., sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid. 2. That there are four veins in relation to the artery- two jugular and two thyroid, three of these cross it, and one (tlie internal jugular) lies to its outer side. 3. That there are four