356 Applied Anatomy: After this neiglibouriug spaces coalesce aud opcu on the free surface, and in this way the matrix is split up into bauds or fibres, aud very soon the ends of the bones are bared. Cartilage, in health, is non-vascular, and therefore depends for its nutrient supply on the blood-vessels of the adjacent bone, and the synovial membrane at its edges ; in joints containing inter- articular ligaments, as the hip, the cartilage will, no doubt, receive nourishment from the blood-vessels passing along the ligament, and from the tube of synovial membrane surrounding it. The cartilage is sufficiently porous to allow lymph to percolate through it, and in this way it receives its nutrient supply. So far as I am aware, nerves have not been found in cartilage, and it is therefore devoid of sensibility. The intense pain experienced when a loose body is caught between the articular surfaces is probably due to the stretching of the ligaments; and the pain in "ulceration of cartilage " is due to pressure on the exposed sensitive bone forming the floor of the ulcer. In diseased conditions, however, blood- vessels may be seen shooting up into the cartilaginous matrix. The cartilage does not rest immediately upon the cancellous tissue, but upon a thin crust of compact tissue, the so-called " articidar bone." This layer is destitute of Haversian canals, and is there- fore non-vascular; further, its lacunte are very lai'ge and have no canaliculi. It is thus whiter in colour, and less porous than ordinary bone, and it is, in all probability, the destruction of this layer that gives rise to the intense "starting pains" following destruction of the cartilage of incrustation. From its intermediate position, and from its own peculiar ^dtal relations, diseases of the cartilage are usually secondary to disease of the bone or synovial membrane; by some it is stated that the disease known as Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis, in the great majority of cases, begins in the cartilages. Disease may also be induced primarily by a traumatism, as a contusion of the joint, frequently seen in the case of the hip, wliereby its vital connections with tlie underlying bone are destroyed aud a central ulcer is formed. 3. The Bone.—The articular ends of the bones consist of spongy or cancellous tissue, with a layei' of articular bono innnediately under the cartihagc, as already explained. The cancellous tissue combines the greatest strength and elasticity witli lightness, and