Applicd A natomy : 500 RESUME of fractures near the ankle joint :— 1. Fracture of both bones: great trouble by the falling back of the heel. ■2. Fracture of the internal malleolus, with rupture of tlie external lateral ligament; foot displaced inwards. 3. Pott's fracture—fracture of the fibula about an inch au<l a half or more above the external malleolus, -with rupture of the internal lateral hgament, or snapping across of the internal malleolus; foot markedly everted, and heel often much retracted. 4. Dupuytren's fracture—fracture of the fibula and rupture of the mternal lateral ligament, as in Pott'« fracture; but also rupture of the iiiferior tibio-fibular ligament, or else the part of the tibia to which it is attached is torn off; foot displaced outwards, as a whole, without marked eversion or inversion. .-). Fracture of the fibula in the same position as in Pott's fracture, due to mverslon of the foot; the fractured ends tilted outwards. In Pott's fracture it is due to eversion of the foot, and the broken ends are driven in towards the tibia. G. Fracture of the fibula, just through the maUeolus, from direct violence; little displacement, but foot may be slightly inverted. In diagnosing this fracture trust chiefly to the existence of a te7ider q)ot and pain o" indirect pressure—pressure at the upper part of th fibida—and the nature of the violence. I must be pardoned if I have, for the most part, described th l-:dinbm'gh methods of treating fractures. I have done so, no merely because they are the Edinburgh methods, but because o their simplicity and efficiency. I do not write this as an apology, because the methods require no apology. The lecturer on Surgery has no right to waste his time teaching the studcnt-who .nl probably by-and-by drift into general practice m some out ot u l!^. place-the use of complicated methods, which . wUl be out of his power then to procm-e, or his patients o V-Y^^^^^ which are, for the most part, of advantage only to the in.^unuont