242 Applied Anatomy: greater risk of septic absorption and osteo-mj'elitis. Hey's ampu- tation, however, is more easily performed and leaves a better stump than LiSFBANc's. Mr Skey removes the end of the'second meta- tarsal bone, but does not interfere with the internal cuneiform. The amputation may be performed in one of three ways :—In the first, the dorsal flap is made first, the bones disarticulated, and the plantar flap cut afterwards. In the second, the plantar flap is cut flrst, then the dorsal, and after this disarticulation performed. In the third, the dorsal flap is first made, as in the first method, the plantar flap is then shaped and dissected up as in the second method, and lastly the bones are disarticulated. In the first plan the leg is placed with the foot downwards, the ankle jomt ftiUy extended, and the assistant keeps the heel firmly fixed upon the table with the part of the foot to be removed overhanging its edge, and at the same time pulls the skin tightly upwards. The operator then grasps the toes firmly, keeping the ankle joint weU extended, and when the dorsal flap is outlined by the first incision, the assistant retracts it while the Surgeon frees it by a few touches of the knife; he then disarticulates, and finally forms the plantar flap. In the second form the assistant grasps the toes, and holds the foot at right angles to the leg with the heel firmly pressed against the table, while the operator dissects up the plantar flap; the dorsal flap is next made as in first plan, the assistant holding the foot^ as there described, and the operator grasping the toes and extending the ankle joint. In the third plan, the foot is held as in the first stage of the first method (well extended, and the Surgeon grasping the''toes); it is next held as in the first stage of the second method (at right angles, and the toes grasped by an assistant), and then disarticulation performed in a manner common to all the three. A strong, sharp, stout-backed, sharp-pointed, and not too broad-bladed bistoury is the best knife to use ; the blade should be about four inches long, but the point must not be too spear-like lest it break ofl in opening the joints. The guides for this operation arc (Fig. 46):— The projection formed by the fifth metatarsal bone on the outer side, and the tarso-metatarsal articulation of the great toe on the inner side, a groove corresponding to which may be felt by firm pressure or if this is indistinct, a point may be taken one inch in front of the tubercle of the scaphoid, which will indicate the articulation