Applied Anatomy: 46 tlie stomacli is empty; and (2) because we avoid in this way tlie special risk of vomiting under anajsthesia—viz., solid matters passing into the glottis and choking the patient. It is a good plan, however, to give half-an-ounce of brandy mixed with an onnce and a half of Avater about half-an-hour before the operation. The chloroformist should not deluge his patient suddenly and without warning with the cliloroform vapour, but should first converse mth him for a few minutes to gain his confidence, reassure him as to the result, and instruct him how to breathe. This, of course, does not apply to young children. No single sign can be relied upon as a sure test of insensibility; the tests usually employed are—(1) Loss of the corneal reflex; (2) relaxation of voluntary muscular action; (3) local insensibility of the part to be operated upon: the Surgeon tries this by gently pricking the part with the point of his knife. The corneal reBex may be^'lost and yet the part to be operated upon be widely awake, especially if in the neighbourhood of the anus and rectum, the penis and perineum; or, again, the part to be operated upon may be completely insensible while the corneal reflex is stiU active. The Risks from the Heart are fortunately rare, because as a rule, in man, the respiration stops before the heart has ceased to beat. It may, however, fail in one of two ways—either by sudden syncope, or gradual dying out. The sudden failure is probably due in most cases to the fact that the patient is not sufficiently under to abolish all reflex action when the operation is begun; hence, the sudden shock, produced by division of the cutaneous structures, reaches the medulla and there stimulates the cardio-inhibitory centre, and at once brings the heart to a stand-still in cUastole. If this be the correct explanation, then the proper way to prevent it is to see that the patient is deeply under when the operation is commenced. For the same purpose, it has also been recommended that a mixture of atropia and morphia (one-sixtieth of a grain of atropia, and one-sixth of a grain of morphia) should be given subcutaneously a short time before the operation, as the patient then not only requires less chloroform (from the narcotic efiect of the morphia), but the atropia paralyses the whole inhibitory mechanism, and thus prevents, it is asserted, the passage of in- liibitory impulses from the medulla to the heart. I am not at all