Surgical, Medical, and Ope fa live. IGl dosccuds in tlie substance of tlie vastus intenius, in front of tho tendon of the adductor magnus, to tlie inner condyle of the femur, and anastomoses witli the superior internal articular, and recurrent of the anterior tibial. RESUME of the operation in " Hunter's canal ":— 1. It is probably better to make the incision in the line of the artery, as we can thus more easily reach the outer edge of the sartorius and avoid the long saphena vein. 2. Open the fascia and expose the outer edge of the sar- torius, and displace the muscle imvards. 3. Open the roof of the canal, after the manner of the slieath of an artery, and enlarge on a director, or with finger and probe-pointed bistoury. 4. Avoid the internal saphenous nerve and clear the artery as in the higher operation. 5. Clear the artery and pass the needle from the outer side, about one inch above the anastomotica magna. The only other branch which requires special notice is the pro- funda branch. The Profunda Artery (Deep Femoral).—This branch arises from the outer and posterior part of the femoral artery about an inch and a half from its commencement. At first it passes down- wards and outwards, then curves inwards behind the femoral artery and the adductor longus muscle (this muscle separating the two vessels), and then passes downwards, at first lying between the adductors longus and brevis, and afterwards between the adductors longus and magnus, and terminates by piercing this latter muscle. Relations.—It Uc^ on—{I) The iliacus, (2) the pectineus, (3) the adductor brevis, and (4) the adductor magnus. In front of it (besides the structures covering the femoral artery) we have (1) The femoral and profunda veins, and (2) the adductor longus. To its outer side is the vastus internus. It may be ligatured near Its origin by the same incision as that used for ligature of tho femoral in the lower part of Scarpa's triangle; or, lower down, by following it inwards behind the adductor longus muscle, but great care woidd be necessary on account of its relations to its own vein, (iiul also to the femoral vessels. L