Applied Anatomy: 214 structures, the rest of the structures being divided close to the retracted skin. As this flap is being made, the wrist and fingers should be well flexed, and the elbow joint bent. The Surgeon then passes the knife in front of the bones a little below the base of this incision, and cuts an equal palmar flap from within outwards. In forming the anterior flap the forearm should be supinated, the fingers straightened, and the wrist dorsiflexed, and the operator must take care not to pass the knife between the two bones. Each flap should be equal in length to the antero-posterior diameter of the limb at the point of section of the bones, say from two to two and a half inches. The dorsal flap may be raised before or after transfixion, the Surgeon taking hold of it with his left hand and freeing it with a few touches of the knife. Both flaps are then retracted by an assistant, and the bones cleared and divided about an inch higher up. The bones are cleared by a double sweep of the knife round both bones, in the first instance round the under segment and then round the upper, and after this in a figure-of-eight-like way between the two bones, and in doing this it is important not to allow the edge of the knife to be at all directed up the arm, lest the interosseous arteries (especially the anterior) be divided too high up, or split, and retract beyond reach. To avoid tliis, the rule is always to keep the edge of the knife turned towards the part to be removed. As in all operations of this kind, the large nerve trunks should be shortened with the scissors, to prevent their being included m the cicatrix, causing a " painful stump." Mr Spence was in the habit of making the posterior flap a little longer than the anterior, so that it folded over the end of the bone; in this way the cicatrix is not opposite the end of the stump, and the wound drains better. As the bones are nearly of equal size at the point of section, the usual practice is to divide them together. Vessels requiring ligature are-(l) The radial artery, (2) ulnar artery, (3) anterior interosseous, and (4) posterior interosseous. The radial and ulnar are found in the free end of the palmar flap. The objection to forming the anterior flap by transfixion is that the mass of muscles ■md tendons protrude beyond the skin ; and more especially if the amputation is performed for injury, for then the loosened and injured tendons yield and are pulled out by the knife and leave