117 Siirgira/, Medical, niid Operative. position in front of the bend of the elbow—a condition somewhat similar to the normal condition in many of the carnivora. In those who use crutches this vessel lias occasionally been obliterated by tlie pressure thus caused. (6) The coraco-brachialis is inserted into the inner border of the humerus near its middle, and at this point note the following facts:—(«) The brachial artery lies upon it; {li) the median nerve crosses the artery at this point; ('■) the internal cutaneous nerve leaves the artery here, passing forwards to pierce the deep fascia; (rf) at this point also the ulnar nerve leaves the brachial, passing backwards; (e) here the brachial is nearest the humerus and is most easily compressed; (/) at this point tlie nutrient artery enters the humerus; {(j) the inferior profunda is given off at this point; and lastly, (/;) the brachial is usually ligatured about this region. Branches.—(1) JMuscular; (2) superior profunda, which joins and accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve ; (3) inferior profunda, wliich accompanies the ulnar nerve; (4) nutrient to humerus; (5) anastomotic branch, which is given off about two inches above the elbow joint, and divides into two branches—one passes to the front of the internal condyle, the other passes behind the joint. RESUME of the operation at the bend of the elbow:— 1. .Make an oblique incision beginning half-an-inch above tlie level of the internal condyle, parallel with the median basilic vein, through skin and superficial fascia only. 2. 1 )o not prolong it too far down lest the median cephalic vein be divided. 3. Draw aside the vein and the internal cutaneous nerve and divide the bicipital fascia on a director. 4. Look for the artery between the tendon of the bicejis and the median nerve. T). Clear the vessel and pass the needle from the nerve. Collateral Circulation (sec Fig. IS).—This varies according to the point of ligature. At tlie upper part, in a general way, it is carried on by branches from tlie circumflex (9) and subscapular (13) arteries, anastomosing with the ascending branches of the sujierior profunda (14), and mu.scular branches tlirough tlie various muscles in the neighbourliood. Ligature above tlu; suixu'ior i)rofunda is