I 181 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. segment. (2) Where there are two bones—First clear by sweeps of the knife round both bones, as in the last method, and next cut the interosseous membrane and tissues between the bones in a figure-of-eight-like -way between and round the bones, always taking care not to let the edge of the knife be directed upwards between ; the ])ones, lest the interosseous vessels be divided too high up for easy ligature. 7. Ordinary Artery and Torsion Forceps. S. Tenacula.—Tenacula are required in some operations where the vessel cannot be secured by the ordinary forceps, as in cases when amputation is performed at a point where an artery is passing between two bones, and is apt to retract so much that it cannot be caught by ordinary methods, but must be secured by hooking up a little of the surrounding tissues with the artery. This is best done by a tenaculum plunged deeply through the tissues, and made to transfix the vessel which is then pulled forward, and the tissue, with the artery, tied under the tenaculum. Cases in point are met with in amputation just below the knee, where the anterior tibial artery comes through between the two bones; also in amputation just below the elbow joint, where the 2}osterior interosseous artery passes through between the radius and ulna. A like method of securing vessels may be necessary in amputating through chronically inflamed parts, or in places where the coats of the vessels are diseased, so that they cannot be pulled out sufficiently for the application of the ligature. A curved needle threaded with catgut may also be used for a similar purpose, and is more generally used now-a-days than the tenaculum. 9. Lion Forceps.—Used, for example, in Syme's amputation at the ankle joint. Garden's at the knee, and Jordan's at the hip. 10. Periosteum Elevators may be required in many amputa- tions, p.f/. hip, tliuinb, etc. 11. A good stock of Wells's or Pean's Forceps, for the temporary arrest of hajmorrhage, 12. Ligatures and Needles, both for catgut and wire sutures. The needle for wire sutures has deep lateral grooves near the eye, so that the wire may lie smoothly, and not obstruct the passage of the needle through the tissues. 13. Scissors.