Siiro-ica/, Medical, and Operative. 97 siii^erior thyroid and external jugular veins. (3) Although appar- ently so superficial, yet, in the actual operation, the vessel lies at the bottom of a deep narrow pit, with the mobile pharyngeal wall forming its floor. Another objection to this operation is that the vessel is often joined at its origin with the facial or superior thyroid. For these reasons the next form of incision is the one usually adopted, except in cases where the operation is performed preliminary to excision of the tongue, when it is necessary to tie the vessel in its first part, and as close to the parent trunk as possible, in order to be sure that, in removing the tongue, the artery will not be cut between the parent trunk and the ligatured point. To tie it in the second part of its course, i.e., as the vessel lies beneath the hyo-giossus at the apex of the digastric triangle, a curved incision is made from a point a little below and behind the symphysis menti down to the level of the hyoid bone, and then turning upwards till it nearly reaches the angle of the jaw. It must not be carried quite up to the angle of the jaw lest the facial vein be injured. The facial artery is safe, as it is in the substance of the sub-maxillary gland, whereas the vein is on its surface. After dividing the superficial structures and deep fascia, the sub-maxillary gland is exposed, and must be displaced upwards with a blunt hook. Then the boundaries of the triangle in which the vessel lies are to be recognised, viz., tlie two belHes and the intervening tendon of the digastric on each side, and the ninth nerve above the nerve is to be dissected up a little and held aside, when the hyo-glossus muscle will be exposed. The fibres of this muscle are tlion to be divided transversely about a couple of lines above the hyoid bono, the vessel carefully cleaned, and the needle passed from above downwards. In the dead body the muscle seems thinner than one might expect, and, unless care be taken, the operator may easily open into the pharynx. In this operation the trouble with veins is not so great as in the first form. Some operators use an incision an inch and a quarter in length, parallel Avith, and onc-thii-d of an nicli above, the great coriiu of the liyoid bone. PECULIARITIES.—The lingual artery sometimes arises from a trunk common to it and the f^icial ; less frecpicntly it is joined ■\vith the superior thyroid. G