Siirgical, Medical, and Operative. 271 hoped by tliis method to combine all the advantages of Tbale's amputation together with the ease of performance of the old flap method. But, as already pointed out, the question of ease and time is not of so much importance now-a-days, as it is to secure a good, useful stump. C. The Circular Method (''triple incision") may be used in cases where there is not sufficient skin to form a long anterior flap. The steps of the operation resemble very closely those of the uiodified circular, the only difference being that the skin is divided circularly instead of in the form of two short equal semi-lunar flaps; the skin should be divided three or four inches below the point at which the bone is to be divided. The foregoing six methods may all be employed either in the middle third of the leg, or at the old "seat of election." The " seat of election " is about a hand's-breadth below the knee joint, and leaves just sufficient tibia to retain its tubercle, with the insertion of the ligamentum patelkc. In practice, however, it will be found more convenient to, go a little lower down if i^ssible. If the bones are divided at the " seat of election," some difficulty will probably be experienced in securing the anterior tibial artery, which at that point is just passing through between the bones,' and is therefore apt to retract after division, beyond the reach of easy ligature (see page 181); but, by going a little further down, the artery is fairly through and lying on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane and may be more readily secured. The head of the fibula should always be left, because, as a rule, its synovial membrane is but a part of the general synovial membrane of the knee joint. In I'egard to arteries divided in amputations a little below the knee, ^Fr Holdkn has pointed out that in amputations one inch below the head of the fibula one arteiy is divided—the popliteal; at two inches belo^v the head, tivo arteries—the anterior and posterior tibials; at ihree inches below the head, three arteries —the anterior and posterior tibials and peroneal. The Chief Structures divided in the foregoing amputations through the calf (Fig. .5.5) are-1. The integumentary coverings Muscles-((<) Tibialis auticus, (i) extensor communis digitorum ('•) the extensor proprius hallucis, {d) the peroneus longus, (e) the poroncus brcvis, (/) the gastrocnemius, {,,) the soleus, {h) the