Applied A natoiny: 152 As it lies iu Hunter's canal, in addition to tlie superficial structures, we find covering it—(8) the sartorius muscle; (9) roof of Hunter's canal; and (10) the long saphenous nerve. Behind it we find— (1) The psoas muscle, which separates it from the margin of the pelvis and the capsule of the hip-joint; (2) the nerve to the pectineus; (3) the femoral vein; (4) the pectineus; (5) the adductor longus; and (6) part of the adductor magnus. On the inner side— (1) The femoral vein (at the upper part); (2) the adductor longus; and (3) the sartorius. On the aider side—{I) The anterior crural nerve, which lies ahout a quarter of an inch from the vessel, a few fibres of the psoas muscle intervening; (2) the vastus internus; (3) the femoral vein (at the lower part); (4) the internal cutaneous nerve; (5) the long saphenous nerve; (6) the nerve to the vastus internus. The femoral vein (Fig. 29) is at first on the same plane, and on the inner side of and close to the artery; but in its course downwards it gradually passes behind the artery, until, when it reaches the apex of Scarpa's triangle, it lies directly behind it; it then gradually passes to its outer side. The following is the arrange- ment of vessels from before backwards, at the apex of Scarpa's triangle—(1) Femoral artery; (2) femoral vein; (3) profunda vein; and (4) profunda artery; hence, if a person receives a stab or bullet wound at this point, these vessels are liable to be injured. The adductor longus muscle separates the femoral vessels from the profunda vessels in this region. The femoral artery may be tied (1) above the origin of the profunda, i.e., the common femoral; (2) the superficial femoral at the apex of Scarpa's triangle; and (3) the superficial femoral in Hunter's canal. The Common Femoral.—Ligature of this part of the vessel has been anytliing but a successful operation. There are various reasons for this—(1) It is a short trunk, the usual length being about an inch and a half, and it may be much shorter. (2) The large number of branches given off in the neighbourhood, so that it is almost impossible for a satisfactory clot to form. These branches are—(ci) The deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac, just above its origin; (ft) the profunda, one to two inches below; (c) occasionally also one of the circumflex arteries, usually the internal; {d) three or four small branches—superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, superficial external pudic, and deep