104 Applied Anatomy: from lialf-an-iiicli to an incli behind the coronal sutui'e. This point is easily indicated on the surface, since the coronal suture is as nearly as possible five inches from the root of the nose, and the artery is therefore half-an-inch to an inch behind this. 11 may extend from one, to two and a half inches, from the external angular process and the same distance above the zygoma, i.e., at one inch it will be one inch above the zygoma; at two it will be two inches above it, and so on. Under an inch and a half it will usually be found in a bony canal. A line straight across the vertex from one external auditory meatus to the other just cuts the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures. The posterior branch of tlic artery passes upwards and backwards over the squamous portion of the temporal bone. Should it Ije necessary to trephine for the relief of luvmorrhagc in fracture of the skull in this region, define the position of the anterior branch of the artery in the manner already indicated, and at this point make a ±-shaped incision, the horizontal limb of which is parallel with and about an inch above the zj^goma, the vertical limb passing upwards as far as necessary. Turn back all the structures right down to and including the pericranium in one layer, search for the line of fracture and apply the trephine. Should there be no fracture visible, even though the symptoms (signs of compression coming on, not immediately after the injury but after an interval of consciousness—paralysis of the opposite side of the body and face) point to extravasation of blood, then trephine over the course of the vessel. The Structures divided in this operation are—(1) Skin, (2) superficial fascia, and closely connected with it the superficial temporal vessels and auriculo-temporal and temporo- malar nerves, and a thin fascia prolonged from the central tendon of the occipito-frontalis, with the attolens and attrahens muscles arising from it; (3) the two layers of the temporal fascia, and between them the orbital artery, and a twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with its artery, and some fatty tissue; (4) the temporal muscle, Avith the middle temporal artery; (5) tlie deep temporal vessels; (6) pericranium; (7) bone, which at this point is thin and contains but little diploid. The circle of bone will probably include portions of the frontal, parietal, sphenoid, and squamous part of the temporal, /.r., the bones meeting at the ptcrion.