Applied Anatomy. 348 If tlie transverse incision Idc used:— 1. IMake the incision across the front of the joint, from condyle to condyle, down to the patella. 2. Saw the patella transversely, then forciblj'^ flex and open the joint. 3. Free and turn up one-half of the patella, and the other half downwards along with the corresponding flap of soft tissues. 4. Divide the ligaments and hones as in the previous operation. 5. Suture the patella with silver wire or catgut. 6. Introduce steel or bone pins into femur and tibia in the form of a St Andrew's cross, as looked at from the front, or a couple of silver Avire sutures. THE ANKLE. This is an operation but rarely performed; many Surgeons are strongly opposed to it, believing that amputation at the aidvle joint is preferable. It may, however, occasionally be performed with advantage; cases appropriate for the operation may be— 1. For Dimcm, provided that the disease is strictly limited to the ends of the tibia and fibula, and the articular surface of the astragalus, and that the operation is performed before constitu- tional exhaustion has supervened. In cases of tubercular disease of the joint, if at all advanced, excision should be viewed with suspicion. The great risk of constitutional infection must not be forgotten—tubercular disease of the testicle, tubercular infection of the lung, and finally, tubercular meningitis carrying oti' the patient; whereas, in all probability, had the foot been amputated as soon as the disease was discovered, the life might have been saved; it is the old story, "penny Avise, and pound foolish" —saving a foot but losing a life. 2. For Ivfury, as compound fracture of the malleoli, compound dislocation of the joint, and gun-shot injuries, provided the patient is in the prime of life and unatfected by constitutional disease. In such cases it is often merely a dressing of the ends of the protruded bones, or removal of loose pieces, or disarticulation of the astragalus through the original wound.