270 Applied Afiatomy: the front of the limh in a semi-lunar manner, and then upwards till it reaches a point a little heldnd the inner edge of the tibia, and opposite the commencement of the incision on the outer side. Then, without removing the point of the knife from the incision, he transfixes the limb, the knife entering and leaving a little below the angles of the former incision, and forms a gently rounded flaj) from the calf, by cutting first downwards for some distance and then gradually outwards; in cutting this flap he should support the mass of calf muscles with his left hand. The anterior flap is then dissected upwards, the assistant holding it while the operator frees it by a few touches of the knife—if preferred, the anterior flap may be dissected up before the posterior flap is made. Both flaps are next retracted, the bones cleared and sawn a little higher up than the point of transfixion, with all the previous precautions. The great objection to this amputation is the great mass of muscle left in the posterior flap, which is therefore apt to bag and drop, owing to its great weight, and leads to tension and sloughing; for the same reason it must be kept in position by strajjping, etc., and this is a source of great discomfort and pain to the patient, as well as being likely to interfere with primary union of the wound. To get rid of this difiiculty 'to a certain extent, Mr Spence advised that the skin of the posterior flap should be retracted and the redundant muscle removed by a single sweep of the knife, thus leaving little more than a skm flap. No doubt this is a great improvement; but even this does not give the advantages of the large anterior flap, viz.:—(1) Cicatrix placed behind; (2) a depen- dent opening for drainage during healing; (3) the long anterior flap is kept in position by its own weight; and (4) the tendency to protrusion of the bone is less and ulceration of the flap is rare, as the heavy muscular mass in the posterior flap is avoided. 5. Lee's Amputation through the Calf. —This amputation resembles, in a general way, Teale's amputation, only the long rectangular flap is made from the tissues behind instead of from the front. The incisions are made at first through the skin and cellidar tissue only, and when tliis has retracted, by virtue of its own elasticity, the muscles are divided; the superficial muscles only are included in the posterior flap, the deep muscles Avith the large vessels and nerves are cut at tlic base of the flaps. It was