Surgical, Medical, and Opci-ativc. 91 extend from near the angle of the jaw to the level of the thyroid cartilage. Carefully cut through the structures covering it in the first part of its course. Turn the large veins to one side if possible, or else tie thera with a double ligature and cut between. The sterno-mastoid must be pulled backwards, the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles with the hypo-glossal nerve forwards and upwards, and the parotid gland upwards. The descendens noni is external to and somewhat behind the vessel, and is not likely to be injured, but the thyro-hyoid branch is immediately in front, and if seen should be hooked aside. The vessel is then to be cleared, and the needle passed from the outer side, and in doing so care should be taken to avoid injuring or including the descendens noni nerve, the superior laryngeal nerve, or the ascending pharyngeal artery. The external carotid may be ligatured for wounds of the main trunk or its branches, tarious forms of aneurism of the face and scalp, etc. In case of wounds, or aneurism the result of a wound, the vessel or its branches should be secured at the injured point. In cases of idiopathic aneurism and pulsating tumours of scalp, ligature of the common carotid is the more effectual operation, on account of the large number of branches given off by the external. Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 12).—1. Branches of the external carotid on the side tied anastomosing with the corres- ponding branches of tlie opposite side (4), viz.—(ft) Facial with facial; (h) temporal with temporal; (c) occipital with occipital; (d) superior thyroid with superior thyroid (10). 2. Anastomoses between the subclavian and the external carotid of the side tied— (a) Deep cervical (11) from the superior intercostal, with the princeps cervicis (6) of the occipital; (h) the vertebral with the occipital in the region of the suboccipital triangle (7); («) inferior thyroid with the superior thyroid (10). 3. Nasal of the ophthalmic anastomosing with the angidar of the facial. THE PULSE IN ANEURISM of the aorta and vessels at the root of the neck.—According to J )r Mahomed, the chief characters of the aneurisnial pulse recognisable by the finger are—(1) Delay; (2) diminution in volume; (.3) diminution in force; (4) persistency; {^) in some cases a thrill may be felt. In many cases the finger can perceive a want of parallelism in the beats of the radials; but sometimes the differences arc too slight to be dectected by the finger.