260 Applied Anatomy: angles to the long axis of the leg at the level of the sustentaculum tali, and thus gives a flat surface to stand upon, instead of the posterior part of the os calcis and the unsupported anterior extremity of that hone. The periosteum covering the under surface of the os calcis should be preserved and turned up against the raw section. The skin incisions are made as in Chopart's amputation. The following is a general list of the more important Structures divided in the previous amputations in the vicinity of the ankle joint:—1. The integumentary coverings and plantar fascia. 2. Muscles—(a) The tibialis anticus; {h) the extensor communis and brevis digitorum and peroneus tertius; (c) the extensor proprius hallucis ; {d) the peroneus longus and brevis; (e) the tendo achillis and plantaris ; (/) the tibialis posticus; {g) the first layer of muscles of the foot (the abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, and the abductor minimi digiti); and (A) part of the second layer (the tendons of tlie flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, and accessorius muscle). 3. Vessels—(a) The dorsal artery of the foot, or the anterior tibial; {h) the internal and external plantar vessels, or else the posterior tibial close to the point where it divides into these vessels; (<;) the long and the short saphenous veins; {d) the external calcaneal branch of the peroneal artery; (e) the internal calcaneal of external plantar ; and (/') also twigs from the tarsal artery, the internal malleolar branches of the posterior tibial, and the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial. 4. Nerves—(a) The posterior tibial or plantar nerves ; {h) the anterior tibial; (c) the musculo-cutaneous or peroneal; and {d) the long and the short saphenous nerves. 5. The ligaments of the ankle joint and the various other joints disarticulated. 6. The ends of the tibia and fibula, and, in Pirogoff's amputation, the os calcis, and, in Hancock's amputation, the astragalus as well as the os calcis. Further, in Pirogoff, as compared with Syme, the tendo achillis is not divided, the first layer of muscles of the sole arc divided as well as the flexor accessorius, and the plantar vessels are divided much further forwards.