436 Applied Anatomy: in this region, and is usually transverse in direction. It is usually caused by direct violence, as severe falls or blows on the shoulder, in elderly people. As already stated, separation at the epiphyseal line between the tuberosities and the shaft can only occur before the age of twenty. This line does not correspond to the surgical neck, but is considerably above it. In this case the upper fragment of the bone remains in the glenoid cavity, while the upper end of the lower fragment is drawn inwards and upwards, and forms a marked projection just beneath the coracoid process, rounded and smooth in outhne, and when crepitus can be detected it is softer in character than ordinary crepitus; the upper fragment (the epiphysis) is held in position by the muscles attached to the tuberosities, which are inserted above this epiphyseal Hne. Fracture proper through the surgical neck is recognised by the shortening, crepitus, distortion, the axis of the bone being directed downwards and outwards, and loss of power of the arm, while the shoulder is rounded and swollen. The shaft of the bone moves independently of the head when the elbow is rotated, and by pushing the fingers up into the axilla the upper end of the lower fragment may be detected. The elbow can be brought to the side while the hand is placed on the opposite shoulder. The upper end of the lower fragment can be felt under the coracoid process, especially when the elbow is pushed up and rotated. The %Lfinr fragment, together with the head of the bone, is rotated outwards, abducted, and raised by the muscles attached to the greater and lesser tuberosities—supra-spinatus and iufra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis; still, the displacement is not great, because the muscles of the two tuberosities almost counterbalance each other. The only muscle not balanced is the supra-spinatus, which may, therefore, and sometimes does, cause persistent abduction of the fragment The lower fragment is drawn upwards, inwards, and forwards-upwards by the biceps, triceps, and deltoid; inwards and forwards by the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres maior The axis of this part also is altered, the elbow being tilted outwards by the action of the deltoid (Fig. 81) At first siaht this injury may seem to resemble subglenoid dislocation of the head of the humerus; but the head of the bone can be fol in its natural position, the limb is .lioviened, and there is increased