Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 128 be ligatured at its middle or lower third; the upper third is too deeply situated to admit of ligature except in the case of a dii'eet wound of the artery. 1. At its Middle Third. — Guide—The inter-muscular septum and groove between the fleshy bellies of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the flexor sublimis digitorum ; search for the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and follow it up towards the bend of the elbow and make an incision two or three inches in length, either parallel with the edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris or somewhat obliquely across its course. We may also use the line that marks the course of the lower two thirds of the artery as our guide. The position of the arm is the same as that for ligature of the radial, and the Surgeon stands on the outer side of the limb in both cases. Divide the skin and superficial fascia only by the first incision, and then search for the inter-muscular septum between that muscle and tlie flexor sublimis, and forcibly separate them ; this is the first inter- muscular space found in passing from the posterior edge of the ulna round the front of the fore-arm. At this stage an assistant should flex the wrist to allow the muscles on each side to be held aside with blunt hooks by another assistant. At the bottom of the Avound the ulnar nerve is exposed, and the artery, with its vena^ comites on each side, will be found to the outer side of the nerve. Pass the needle from the nerve, and complete the operation in the usual manner. RESUME :— 1. Make a slightly-oblique incision across the course of the vessel well to the inner side of the arm. 2. Divide the deep fascia, and find the first inter-muscular space from the ulnar edge of the arm. 3. Separate the flexor carpi ulnaris from the flexor sublimis. 4. Flex the wrist and fore-arm, hold the sides of the wound apart, when the artery will be found between the two layers of muscles. 5. The nerve is seen to tlie inner side of the artery. 0. Clear tlie vessel and pass the ligature from the nerve. At its Lower Third.— Here the artery is (pute superficial, and lies between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor