Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 565 pressure of the beak outwards, produced by moving tlie other end of the tube inwards, will cause it to enter the orifice. To ^jlace the point of the instrument into the exact axis of the tube, the ring at the outer end should point to the outer canthus of the corresponding eye. It is necessary to pass the catheter along the fioov of the nose, as otherwise it might very easily be passed into the middle meatus. THE INNER EAR OR LABYRINTH. The osseous part simply consists of certain cavities scooped out in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The whole is lined by a thin periosteal membrane, and filled with peri-lymph (Liquor Gohmnii). The membranous parts are much smaller than the osseous, being contained in the osseous parts, and surrounded by the peri-lymph. The membranous labyrinth consists of a system of tubes and bags, which are all connected together, forming a comj^letely closed system, the cavities of which have no du-ect communication with the osseous cavities; anteriorly is the cochlea, posteriorly the semi-circular canals, and between the two is placed the vestibule, which consists of the utricle and saccule. The saccule is connected with the scala media of the cochlea by the canalis reuniens, and to the utricle by the ductus vestibuli; the three semi-circular canals are also connected with the utricle. The membranous labyrinth contains endo-lymph (Liquor Scarpce). The Nerve of Hearing (auditory or portio mollis of seventh) is distributed to the different parts of the internal ear. The vesH- Imlar division is distributed to the utricle and saccule, and to the three ampulhe of the semi-circular canals, where it can be traced to peculiar elevations known as the crista> accousticc^. The portion supplying the utricle and saccule probably end in the hair cells of tlie cristse accousticse, with their otoliths and jelly, the whole being similar to the structures forming the entire hearing apparatus of the invertebrata; this part enables us to appreciate the sense of sound, whether low or loud—absolute silence or noise—but does not discriminate the quality. The part passing to the semi-circular canals ends in a similar manner, and seems to be concerned in the co-ordination of muscular movements, probably because the fibres convey to the brain impulses that, in some way, give us correct