Siirotcn/, Illedica/, and Operative. 257 tlie malleoli aud the astragalus. Tlie foot is stiU further extended and the fatty tissue in front of the tendo achillis cleared, exposing the posterior part of the upper surface of the os calcis; the bone IS also more fully cleared in the line of the first incision. The operator then draws the foot well downwards, its sole resting on the table or overhanging its edge, while the assistant grasps°and steadies the heel. A narrow saw with a movable back (but an ordinary saw wiU do well enough) is then appUed midway between the astragalus and the tendo achillis, and a section made through the OS calcis obliquely downwards and forwards in the line of the first incision. If the foot is held overhanging the edge of the table, or a block, during this part of the operation, the section will seem almost vertical. He next removes a slice from the end of the tibia and fibula, transversely and at right angles to the axis of the bone, as in Stme's amputation. The osseous siu-faces are then to be accurately adjusted, and the limb laid on its outer side with the knee joint flexed, so as to relax the muscles forming the tendo acluUis, and thus avoid tilting the part of the os calcis in the heel flap. The oUifiue section through the os calcis is to insure that the dense tissues covering its loicer part are exactly at the end of tiie stump, and will receive the weight of the body; further it exposes a larger surface of bone to apply against the cut ends'of the tibia and fibula, and the retained part of the os calcis does not mpure to bo tilted so much on its own axis in order to adhere cloHdy to the tibia and fibula, and has, therefore, less tendency to be displaced by the tendo achillis. Should, however, the tendency to tilting be great, the tendo achillis may be divided, or the bones may be "wired" together. Originally, PmoooPF used a vertical cut through the os calcis, merely preserving the projecting posterior end. This, of course, necessitated a greater dissection of the heel Hap, which had to be reflected a little beyond the line of the ankle jo.nt, further, when healed, the part supporting the patient's weight was rather the thin posterior layer of tissue, instead of the hard heel pad fi^om the sole. The advantages claimed for this method are—1. It leaves a onger stump. 2. It is more ea.sy of performance than a Svmk as It saves the tedious aud diflir.ult dissection of the heel flap the bones re,,uiro more accurate adjustment. .-?. There is