3G5 Sjirgical, Medical, ai/d Operative. movement by elevating the scapula. 2. Adduction by {a) gravity, (/>) long head of trice])S, (c) latissimus dorsi, and {d) teres major. 3. Flexion {i.e., movement forwards) by (a) the anterior fibres of deltoid, (b) biceps, and (c) coraco-brachialis. 4. Extension by (a) posterior fibres of deltoid, (b) teres major, and (c) latissimus dorsi. 5. dotation Inwards by (a) the subscapularis, (b) pectorals, {(•) latissimus, and the teres major. G. Rotutiau Oidvards by ('() tlie infra-spinatus, aud {b) the teres minor. 7. Gircuniduction. lu addition to the above seven movements, other two are some- times described, viz.:—Adduction with Flexion (as in crossing tlie arms in front of tlie chest) by means of (a) the i)ecturalis major, (b) biceps, and (c) coraco-brachialis. Adduction iritii E.dension (as in crossing the hands behind the back) by («,) the deltoid, {!>) the latissimus dorsi, and (c) tlie teres major. The foUowiug peculiarities of this joint deserve special notice : 1. The large head of the humerus and the small glenoid cavity; hence the very free movement. 2. The very loose capsule, and hence the easy pendulum-like motion of the limb in walking. 3. The insertion of muscles into the capsule, they are elastic and prevent the capsule from being pinched between the articular surfaces in the various movements of the joint. Above, is the supra-spinatus; Posteriorly, the infra-spinatus and the teres minor; in Front, the subscapularis; and Below, the long head of the triceps. All these muscles are intimately connected with the capsule of the joint, and v/hen they, and the deltoid, are paralysed the head of the bone may be separated some distance from the acromion lirocess. 4. The relation of the biceps tendon : this is to strengthen the joint, and it also gives steadiness and precision in the finer co-ordinated movements of the arm and fore-arm. "When the joint is distended with fluid, as in Acute Synovitis tlie humerus becomes slightly extended and rotated inwards, and held close to the side, as in this position the cavity can hold most fluid. Tlie joint is evenly rounded, the prominence of the shoulder somewhat increased, and a painful bilobed swelling can be felt in the course of the long tendon of the biceps, in the depression Ijctween the pectoralis major and the deltoid. In some cases, too, a soft elastic fliictuatiug swelling can be felt in the axilla. It (the joint) is firmly fixed by tlic muscles in tiie position of greatest