543 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. working eye is covered the squinting eye makes an effort to fix tlie tip of the finger and moves towards the visual line; but the working eye remains quite stationary when the squinting eye is screened. If the working eye be watched behind the screen it will be seen to squint as soon as the affected eye "fixes" the object; this is known as secondary scjuint, and its direction and extent (unless the jmiuari/ squhit be due to paralysis) are the same as those of the original, or ^mtnaru squint. The Fourth Nerve.—The deep origin of this nerve is partly from the nucleus of the third in the aqueduct of Sylvius, and another nucleus below this point. It also communicates with the motor nucleus of the fifth. It passes through the outer AvaU of the cavernous sinus, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and then enters the orbital surface of the superior oblique. The function of this muscle is to turn the eye downwards and out- wards. It may be paralysed by central disease, conditions causing pressure on the cavernous sinus, periostitis—simple, rheumatic, or syphilitic—of the sphenoidal fissure. Paralysis of the nerve gives rise to little sign, unless the patient looks below the horizontal level, when the paralysed eye lags behind the other, and is also twisted inwards by the inferior rectus, producing dijjlopia. The squint is paralytic and convergent, and, therefore, the images arc not crossed (Homonymous squint)—i.e., the right hand°image belongs to the right eye, and vice versa. As the eye is turned downwards, the false image is always below the true and leans towards it, and also seems nearer to the eye than the true one. The Fifth Nerve.—The fifth nerve arises by two roots • the small, aganglionic motor root, arises from a nucleus just below tlie lateral angle of the fourth ventricle and from the grey matter at the sides of tlie aqueduct of Sylvius: tlie large, ganglionic sensory root arises from the nerve cells of the forniatio reticularis of the pons and medulla. Only the first or ophthalmic division concerns the eye. It is the sensory nerve of the eyeball, and probably trophic in function as well; it also supplies the lachrymal gland, eyebrow, forehead, and nose. This explains why in deei)-seated affections of the globe, such as iritis, there is pain over the eyebrow and down the side of the nose, and also the increased lachrymation. It also supplies the mucous membrane of the nose, and hence