Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 27 and cut it off iu tho same way that the "line of demarcation" is formed in gangrene, and, when the separation is comjjlete, the Ijortion of the vessel included in the noose is brought away with the ligature as a small slougli. For both these reasons the silk ligature is opposed to primary union, and may lead to complete or partial failure of the "organisation" of the clot, and the other processes necessary for the permanent sealing of the ligatured artery. It is true that in favourable cases the lymph and clot organise, and the divided internal and middle coats are blended together by firm fibrous union before the external coat is ulcerated through, and in this case there is no danger of secondary haemor- rhage. In other eases, however, the ulcerative process extends faster than the healing process, and involves the clot, which then breaks down, and there is thus a complete or partial failure of the organising process, followed by secondary haemorrhage when the ligature separates. Hence, in using the silk ligatiu-e there was always an uncomfortable feeling of uncertainty as to the final result, which only disappeared when the ligature had separated and the wound healed. Many operators, however, stiU use the silk ligature in securing the main artery of a limb, as iu amputations; the silk is first boiled in a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid and kept in a solution of the same till required. This is known as carbolised silk, and as thus prepared is non-irritating, and either becomes encapsuled or ultimately absorbed. In septic cases, however, it is probably better to use non-absorbent material, as horse-hair, silver Avirc, or silkworm gut. Next came the catgut ligature, introduced by Lister, and for a time seemed all that could be desired; but by and by it was put aside because it sometimes disappeared before the vessel was perfectly sealed, and secondary haemorrhage was the result, or the knot slipped, and, further, if the wound became septic so did the ligature, and again the result was hemorrhage. It has, however, been again revived, and is now used, but only after special prepara- tion. At first it was prepared by being soaked for some months in carbolic acid, and the longer it was soaked the better it became; but it was found inconvenient to use a method of preparation that extended over such a lengthened period, hence the process now adopted is to soak it in a weak solution of chromic and carbolic