362 Applied Aiiafoi/iy : joint the movements take place round two axes—upward and downward movements of the arm in an antero-posterior axis, and backward and forward movements round a vertical axis, as in throwing the shouklers backwards and forwards—a kind of uni- versal joint, by which the scapula and humerus are enabled to maintain the most advantageous relations. The strength of tlie joint is due to ligaments. Dislocation of the Acromion Process of tlie Scapula (for- merly Jcnorvii as Dislocation of tlie Acromial End of the Clavicle). Dislocation of this joint is more frequent than dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle. Two forms are described—1. The more common is Avhere the acromion process is forced underneath the outer end of the clavicle {i.e., the end of the clavicle passes on to the upper surface of the acromion process; this form is the more common, probably because of the slanting surfaces of the articulation. The canse is usually direct violence applied to the scapula, as falls or kicks on the back of the shoulder, not infre- quently occurring during the game of football. In complete cases the diagnosis is easy; there is pain, loss of power (especially abduction), the shoulder is depressed, and the point an inch or an inch and a half nearer the sternum than on the sound side, but by measurement there is no approximation of the ends of tlip clavicle. The arm seems lengthened, and there is a distinct projection lying on the acromion process. It is often incomplete from the resistance offered to dislocation by the strong coraco- clavicular ligament. Looked at from the front, the appearances simulate a dislocation of the humerus, there being an apparent elevation with a depression underneath; but from a side view the differences are marked: in dislocation of the shoulder joint the broad arch formed by the acromion and clavicle is seen, but in dislocation of the clavicle we merely see the end of that bone, witli the edge of the trapezius standing out in bold relief. Treatment.— Eaise, draw backwards, and carry the shoulder outwards, and press the end of the clavicle into position; but although easily reduced (as the joint is a ligamcntously strong one), it is most difficult to keep in position. This is because the articular facet is very small and slanting, the plane of the joint passing downwards and inwards, so that the bones have every facility to slip out agam.