Applied Anatoviy: 3G8 great deal of havai to tlie student of clinical surgery, and may also lead him into grave errors in practice; the " tips " are only of value to the experienced Surgeon, wlio does not require sucli aids. (9) The vertical measurement of the shoulder, from the axilla round the acromion process, is from oue to two inches greater on the dislocated side (Callaway). (10) When a straight piece of hoard is placed with oue end resting on the external condyle of the humerus, and the other on the prominence of the shoulder, in a healthy arm the upper end should he separated from the acromion process ahout an iucli, hut in dislocation it I'csts against that process (Hamilton). 1. The Subcoracoid.—This is the most common form. The head of the. hone is displaced forwards and slightly downwards, and lies immediately helow the coracoid process, resting against the anterior surface of the neck of the scapiila, its anatomical neck lying on the anterior lip of the glenoid cavity. Symptoms— («) The head of the hone is easily felt in the upper and anterior part of the axilla, and partially or entirely obliterates the sub- clavicular fossa; (ft) there is slight shortening of the arm and apparent lowering of the anterior fold of the axiUa; (c) the elbow is tilted outwards, and the axis of the humerus is more oblique than natural; (d) the head of the bone may press on the axillary nerves; (e) inabihty to move the arm at the shoulder joint; (/) measure- ment of the vertical circumference of the shoulder increased from one to two inches; and {g) it is impossible to pass a finger into the interval between the coracoid process and the head of the humerus. Tlie latissimus dorsi and teres major draw it towards the chest, wliile the deltoid and pectoraHs major draw it upwards towards the clavicle. The sub-scapularis muscle is raised from the neck of the scapula and stretched over the head of the liumerus. The posterior muscles are drawn tightly over the glenoid cavity and may be partly ruptured, or the great tuberosity may be torn oli; when this is the case, or when the muscles behind are much torn, the humerus will be rotated inwards. 2. The Subglenoid.—This is the second most common form (according to some, tha most common form). This is the only injury about the shoulder joint where the arm is lengthened: m a i utliers it is shortened, or not lengthened to any appreciable extent.