S//}'£U-(r/, Medical, (Did Opcratrve. 841 witliout any shortening of the limb. The incisions resemble those used for excision, probably the best being the U-shaped incision using either one or both halves, if possible -without division of the ligaiucutuni patellte; or the ligament may be divided and then sutured at the end of the operation; or again, the tubercle of the tibia may be chij^ped off with a chisel, leaving the ligament attached to it, and subsequently wired to the tibia. Some again use the straight incision across the front of the joint Avith transverse division of the patella, the two halves being subsequently wired. When the joint is exposed, the diseased synovial membrane is carefidly clipped away or dissected up en 7)ic(sse; carious cavities or caseous foci, about the epiphysial lines, are gouged out with a sharp spoon, the part washed thoroughly with sublimate solution dried and dusted with iodoform. The after treatment is the same as for excision. In excising the joint four forms of incision may be used :— 1. The H-shaped—a longitudinal incision, at the outer and inner sides of the joint, united by a transverse one in front, across the patella, or above it as originally practised by Verneuil; this in- cision necessitates an unnecessary amount of division of textures. ■2. A single longitudinal incision in the axis of the limb, from three inches above the patella to below the ligamentum patella3; this form of incision has no advantage here, as in the elbow joint, and besides, it gives no opportunity for proper drainage. 3. A horse-shoe-shaped incision with its convexity downwards, and extending from the posterior margin of one condyle of the femur to the posterior margin of the other, passing below the patella, the lowest part of the curve nearly corresponding to the upper margin of the head of the tibia. 4. A straight incision across the front of the joint from condyle to condyle, tlie patella being divided transversely; very often tliis does not give free enough access, and must be supplemented by vertical lateral incisions so as to allow of the soft parts being turned upwards and down- wards with more freedom. To check haemorrliage, and render tlie operation "bloodless," an elastic tourniquet must be applied to the femoral artery. By tlic horse-slioe-shaped incision (Fig. G8).—This is the best form of incision, ns tliere is not tlie same objeution to cross incisions