Applied A natomy: 8 Progress of Aneurism.—(1) It may remain stationary. (2) In- crease in size : the rate of increase depends on its position and the size of the mouth of the sac. Fusiform increase slowly; but the narrower the mouth of the sac, the greater the pressure on its Avails, the more rapid its growth, and the greater the tendency to burst. This increase in size gives rise to pressure symptoms— veins are closed, causing oedema, nerves expanded, tMnned, or irritated, e.g., the superior laryngeal, causing a peculiar brassy persistent cough; the inferior, or recurrent laryngeal, causing spasmodic closure of the glottis, necessitating the performance of tracheotomy : the trunk of the sympathetic in the neck giving rise to eye symptoms : muscles stretched and Avasted, hones eroded and absorbed: cesopliagus or trachea pressed on, causing a difficulty in swallowing or breathing. (3) Eupture of the sac, ixnd death from haemorrhage, either externally or internally as i^ito joints, pericardial or pleural cavities. (4) Spontaneous cure—(a) By coag- ulation of the blood in the sac, due to some temporary retardation of the flow, as from the growth of the aneurism causing pressure on the artery feeding it, escape of a piece of clot causing embolism beyond the aneurism, displaced clot plugging the mouth of the artery leaving the aneurism, or a clot washed down into the feed- ing artery from some aneurism higher up. {h) Suppuration and sloughing of the sac, provided the commnnicatioa between the artery and the sac is closed up before the abscess bursts ; if not, it may speedily cause fatal hasmorrhage. {c) It is believed by some Surgeons that an aneurism may be cured spontaneously by inflammation of the sac Avithoi;t suppuration. In the first form of spontaneous cure there is gi-adual deposi- tion of laminated clot, which tends to restore the resisting force of the wall of the vessel. The outer part of the clot {''active clot") consists of numerous layers of fibrin, and is firmly attached to the Avail of the aneurism; these layers not only strengthen the part, but they tend to contract, and as they do so they cause contraction of the sac, and gradually narroAV it doAvn to the level of the lumen of the original, vessel, or may even close it up entirely. In order that a clot may form, the force of the circulation must be lessened, and when the clot formation is once begun it goes on till the whole sac is full, gradually becoming denser and contracting; it thus