287 Sjirgical, Medical, and Operative. taking cave that tlic posterior ones are divided at a lo^\•er level than the anterior. Next retract all the tissues and saw the Lone higher np. Lateral flaps are not good in the thigh as the hone tends to project at the nj^per angle between the flaps. In wasted and almost cylindrical limbs the ordinary circular, or "triple incision," may be adopted. In the Circular Method the operator stands on the outer side of the limb. One assistant supports the limb horizontally, while another encircles the limb with both hands above the seat of the amputation, and retracts the integuments ; and, in the living body, a third must compress the femoral artery against the brim of tlic pelvis. In all cases of thigh amputations, the patient is laid upon his back, witli his buttocks close to the edge of the table, the leg to be amputated projecting horizontally from it, and the' other secured to a leg of the table. 2. Double Flaps by Transfixion.—The anterior flap must be equal in length to two-thirds of the diameter of the limb at the point of section of the bone; tlie posterior, half that length. The position of the patient and the assistants required are°the same us m tiie previous operation, and the Surgeon stands, most con- veniently, on the right side of the limb. The assistant, standijio- opposite the operator, places the palm of his hand on the posterior part of the tliigh to be amputated, so as to press up the soft parts and relax those in front. The operator tlien grasps and raises the anterior structures with his left hand and transfixes the limb an inch and a half Ijelow the point wliere the bone is to be sawn passes the knife close in front of the bone and femoral artery (below the middle of the thigh), so as to give a broad flap, as nearly as possible equal to half the diameter of the limb. The knife is again re-entered una hivh hduw tlie point of the first tran.sfixion, lest the heel cross-cut the tissues at the angle, and the posterior flap cut from the back of tlie tliigh. The assistant then raises tlie thigh and retracts the flaps, while the operator prepares the bone for the saw, about an inch and a half above the base of tlic flaps. In sawing tlie femur the Unca a.^pcra must be regarded as a separate and small bone, and the femur iiiust, therefore, be divided in tl,e same manner as the tibia and "iJ'ila, il,,; saw lirst eiitcicd ^^■v\\ „u the dorsal aspect „1' the bone