Applied Anatomy: 562 (1) The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve), which enters through an aperture in the floor of the cavity, and is distributed to the Eustachian tube, foramen ovale, and foramen rotundum, and communicates with (2) twig from the carotid plexus, (3) twig from the great superficial petrosal, and (4) sends a twig to join the lesser superficial petrosal. It is thus distributed to tliree parts, and has three communications. EUSTACHIAN TUBE. The Eustachian tube is a canal from one and a half to two inches in length, and its direction is downwards, forwards, and inwards. It consists of—(a) An osseous part about half-an-inch in length, situated in the temporal bone; it begins in the anterior waU of the tympanic cavity, and is dii-ected downwards and forwards; and {h) a cartilaginous part about an inch in length, of triangular shape, and composed of yeUoAV elastic fibro-cartilage. The open part is below, and it is completed by a fibrous membrane and a layer of voluntary muscle; it ends in a trumpet-shaped mouth nearly on a level with the inferior meatus of the nose. It is lined by ciliated epithelium, the cilia of which lash downwards ; it is usually closed, but is opened at the moment of swallowing by the dilator tubfe, levator palati, and salpingo-pharyngeus muscles. The mucous membrane is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal and the second division of the fifth; the muscles by the facial and the third division of the fifth. The blood-vessels are derived from the internal maxillary, the ascending pharyngeal, and the internal carotid. Its use is to get rid of secretions from, and to ventilate the tympanic cavity. By its means the pressure of air m the cavity is kept the same as in the external auditory meatus, so that the pressure on each side of the membrane is the same, a condition necessary for the clear perception of sound waves. The open trumpet-shaped mouth of this tube is situated on a level wdth the posterior extremity of the inferior turbmated bone. According to Tillaux, the opening is about half-an-iuch below the basilar process; half-an-inch in front of the posterior waU of the pharynx; half-an-inch behind the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinated bone; and half-an-inch above the soft palate. In this Avay the nasal part of the pharynx of one side may be