85 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. LIGATURE BELOW THE OMO-HYOID. Right Side.—The position of the patient and the Surgeon are the same as for the higher operation. If \ye wish to ligature the vessel belo^y the omo-hyoid, it is necessary—(1) That the incision be extended further down along the anterior edge of the sterno- niastoid, which must be drawn well outwards, after having divided its sternal head. An incision three inches long commencing a little above the level of the cricoid cartilage, and extending to the episternal notch, will be found sufficient; sometimes an angular incision is used, corresponding to the lower two inches of the sterno-mastoid, and the inner two inches of the clavicle. (2) To divide the fascia binding the omo-hyoid to the muscles near it, and di-aw it upwards. (3) Draw the sterno-mastoid outwards, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles inwards, or, if necessary, divide the sterno-hyoid, and the carotid sheath is now exposed. Proceed as in ligature above the omo-hyoid, bearing in mind the complicated relations of the parts. There is a venous plexus in front of the vessel formed chiefly by the middle thyroid veins, with communications from the anterior and external iugulars: the chief trunks must be carefully avoided, as well as the ansa hypoglossi and its branches. On the left side the artery springs from the arch of the aorta, but beyond the sterno-clavicular articu- lation, its relations are almost the same as those of the vessel on the right side, with the following differences :—(l) It is more deeply placed, as tlie right arises from the innominate artery which lies in front of the trachea, while the left lies rather behind that structure. (2) The internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve are often placed in front of the artery in the lower third of the neck. This makes clearing the vessel for the passage of the ligature more difficult on the left side; on the right side it is easy, because the vein and nerve incline away from the artery at Its lower part, but on the left side the vein bulges right over the vessel, and in the living subject complicates the operation consider- ably. (3) Being deeper it is nearer the oesophagus, whicli lies on Its inner side. (4) Low down, the thoracic duct lies to its outer sifle. Otlierwise the operation for ligature of tlie vessel on the left side IS similar to the corresponding operation on tlio right side.