Applied Anatomy: 286 5. Lister's Method—See under "Amputation of Middle and Upper Thirds of Thigh" for description. 6. Skin Flaps—This is hardly a separate method, hut should be adopted in cases of malignant disease. The flaps should, if possible, be anterior and posterior, and are to be made by dissection, and the other tissues divided circularly above the diseased part. The posterior flap shoirld be raised first, otherwise the bleeding from the anterior Avill embarrass the operator. The method of amputation by double transfixion is not usuaUy adopted in the lower third of the thigh. The muscular flaps— the necessary result of this method—tend to retract too much and lead to protrusion of the bone; the posterior one especiaUy retracts, as the hamstrings are cut so far from their origin, and leave a gaping wound to heal by granulation. This is speciaUy manifested when the limb is •flexed—the position of greatest comfort to the patient. For the Structures divided see next set of amputations. THE MIDDLE AND UPPER THIRDS. For the difi'erent methods of restraining haemorrtiage in ampu- tations through the up2Kr part of the thigh, see " Amputations at the Hip Joint." In amputating in these situations we must save as much as possible, for it is of more importance to preserve the life of our patient than to secure an artistic stump, and statistics show that every inch nearer the trunk increases the mortality. In all probability therefore the best method is the— 1 Modified Circular.—By this method we can secure the loudest possible stump out of the structures at our disposal. The operator stands on the right side of the limb, and three assistants are required-one seated in front of the patient to support the limb below the seat of amputation, a second to support the thigh and retract the integument, and a third to command the femoral artery. The patient is brought well down towards the end of the table, and his other leg is secured to a leg of the operating table by a clove hitch, ihc two short skin flaps may be taken from the most convenient position; if it is a matter of choice, then make them anterioi and posterior. Retract the flaps of skin and divide the muscles,