388 Applied Anatomy: the groin; Abduction, by tlio pubo-femoral band and lower part of tbe capsule; Adduction, by the ilio-trochanteric band and the upper part of the capsule in extension, and the liganientuni teres in the flexed position; External Rotation, by the inner limb of the Y-shaped ligament during extension, and the outer limb and ligamentum teres during flexion; Internal Rotation, by the ischio- femoral and Y-ligament. The ligamentum teres is rendered tense either when the thigh is partly flexed and adducted, or when the limb is flexed and rotated outwards—i.e., flexion with adduction or external rotation. Mr Savory also maintains that it is always made tense in the upright position, and is still further tightened in standing on one leg. In effiision into the joint, as in Acute Synovitis (a rather rare condition, pure and simple), the swelling Avill be difficult to detect, on account of the depth of the joint from the surface, and the thick capsule. As in other joints, it will tend to show itself where the capsule is thinnest—in froiit, internal to the inner head of the Y- shaped ligament, and heliind at the posterior and lower part of the capsule. In these parts, therefore, any swelling and tenderness must be first looked for; the joint at the same time wUl be flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards, as in the position of flexion the joint holds most fluid with the least tension, and abduction and eversion relax the outer and inner bands, respectively, of the ilio-femoral ligament. Bursa under the Psoas Tendon.—Inflammation of this bursa gives rise to symptoms somewhat like those of hip joint disease. It may be possible to feel a fluctuating swelling deep in the groin; the thigh is held in a position of flexion and abduction, the patient is unable to extend it, and should he or the Surgeon attempt to do so there is marked pain, the anterior superior spine follows the movements of the femur, and there is arcliing forwards of the lumbar spine {lordosis) as by this movement the inflamed structure is pressed upon. The joint, however, can be readily Jle.red, and Avhen so held the pain disappears; there is an absence of all rigidity, and there is perfect smoothness of all the movements at the hip joint, as in this position all pressure is removed from tlie bursa in question. The only movement that cannot be properly performed, therefore, is extension.