Applied Anatomy: 66 The Collateral Circulation is practically the same as in ligature of the common carotid, added to that of ligature of the right subclavian (see Fig. 12). PECULIARITIES.—As a rule, the innominate gives off no hranch; hut occasionally a small branch, the tliyroidea ima, aiises from it and runs up in front of the trachea to the thyroid body: further, it is by no means an uncommon arrangement to find the left common carotid joined with the innominate artery at its origin. In some cases there is no innominate artery, the right subclavian arising directly from the arch of the aorta; hence, the importance and necessity of the " deep guide," viz., to trace down the common carotid with the finger till the bifurcation of the innominate artery is distinctly felt. Occasionally, its point of division is considerably above the sterno-clavicular articulation; less frequently, it divides below that point. When the aorta, as in birds, is a " right aorta," the innominate artery is on the left side of the neck instead of the riglit side. It will also be on the left side in cases of the rare congenital malformation of "transposition" of the thoracic viscera, when everything, as it were, lies on the wrong side. Ligature of the innominate is not a successful operation, and can hardly be regarded as justifiable, and is now practically abandoned. In a large proportion of cases (one-fifth of all) the operation has had to be abandoned, on account of unforeseen difficulties, discovered only during its progress. To render the passing of the ligature more easy and certain, the inner end of the clavicle and the upper part of the sternum has been removed by Cooper of San Francisco. It has also been proposed to ligature the vessel through a trephine hole in the manubrium sterni, just over the vessel. It is scarcely necessary to remind the reader that there is but one innominate artery (though there are two innominate veins), and that it is on the right side. It does not look well when a student rises from the examination table and asks the examiner on rchicli side he wishes the artery tied. It is apt to raise a stispicion in that gentleman's mind, which is likely to be noted for future verification, that the student must have forgotten his anatomy considerably. It is specially awkward to make sitch a mistake at such a time; for, if ever a student's Avords ought to be few and well chosen, it is at ani examination.