212 Applied Anatomy: styloid processes tcuded to project at the angles of the incision, whereas by this plan the bones are well covered with sound skin. ]:)uring healing, the fore-arm is to be kept between pronation and supination. 4. By Long Palmar Flap. — An assistant holds the arm snpinated, and a large square flap, with the angles rounded off, is formed from the palm by dissection. The base of the flap should correspond to the free edges of the styloid processes, in order to give a good broad flap; and it should extend fully half- way down the palm, the full width being kept up throughout. It is composed of skin, fat, and fascia, and must be carefidly dissected from the palm, avoiding the prominences caused by the ridge of the trapezium and the hook of the unciform; but while avoiding these it is even of more importance to avoid button- holing the flap. Join the two ends of the anterior incision by a slightly curved incision across the dorsum through all the tissues down to the bones. After this, flex the wrist joint forcibly; open it, and detach the hand by dividing the flexor tendons by a single sweep of the knife. The Palmar Flap contains—The skin,°superficial fascia, fat, and palmar fascia, with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, median and ulnar nerves, superficial palmar arch, and portions of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. During healing the arm is to be supinated and laid on an elevated pillow" as in this position the wound drains best, and there is less tendency to displacement of the long palmar flap. But if more convenient the fore-arm may be kept midway between pronation and supination. , , i ,i f 5 Circular ("fryie inckion").—Xn assistant holds the lore- arm and hand pronated, and pulls up the integuments as tighlly as possible. The Surgeon stands behind the arm (on the lelt side), grasps the fingers with his left hand, and makes a circidar incision through the skin and subcutaneous fatty tissue, as close to the thenar and hypothenar eminences as possible. The tube oi skin is then to be retracted by a few touches of the knife, to the level of the jomt, and another circular incision made through the deep fascia and tendons at that level. The joint is then to be u„ene.l, the hand removed, and the operation finished by sawing oil the styloid processes, or snipping them olf with the bone forceps.