324 Applied Anatomy: r f EESUME of the above operation:— 1. Straight incision made, live inches long, witli the joint semi-flexed, the incision being raher nearer the ulnar side at the lower part, but in the middle line above. 2. Structures on the inner side are peeled off the humerus, the joint being at first held extended, but later is to be flexed. Talie care of idnar nerve. 3. Do the same on the outer side, taking care to preserve the fascia common to anconeus and triceps intact. 4. Remove the olecranon, flex the arm still more, and divide the strong lateral ligaments by cutting on the condyles of the humerus. 5. Force out the end of humerus, and divide it through its broadest part, and parallel with the articular surface. 6. Clear ends of radius and ulna, and divide them a little below the lesser sigmoid cavity. Steps 2 and 3 may be reversed, and the bones divided Avithout removing the olecranon, thus:—After dividing the lateral hgameuts, clear the anterior aspect of the coronoid process, and make a circular sweep round radius and ulna, and then divide them just below the lesser sigmoid cavity; after this clear the humerus and divide it through the upper part of the olecranon fossa. II. In the H or the H forms a transverse incision is made from the inner margin of the olecranon to the articulation between the outer condyle of the humerus and the head of the radius; and then another incision three inches long, parallel with the axis of the limb and a little way to the outer side of the ulnar nerve; this is the H-sliaped form, and, if Ave make another longitudinal incision at the outer end of the transverse one, we complete the first form of incision—the H-shaped form. The chief objections to these forms of incision are—(1) The transverse division of the triceps, and the transverse scar afterwards interfering with flexion; the division of the muscle itself lessening or destroying its power as an extensor. (2) If the transverse cut foils to heal by the first intention, passive motion cannot be begun at the proper time with- out interfering with the healing process. Its alleged advantages iu.e_(l) The bones are more readily exposed; and (2) it admits of better drainage, through the inner incision.