Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Explanation of Fig. 12. A. Aorta. B. Innominate Avteiy. 1. Circle of Willis, formed by the posterior cerebrals from the basilar, and the anterior cerebrals from the internal carotids, connected together by the anterior and posterior communicating branches. 2. Basilar artery, formed by the union of the two vertebrals. 3. Occipital artery, from the external carotid. 4. To represent the anastomoses between tlic corresponding branches of the two external carotids—viz., facial with facial, lingual with lingual, temporals with temporals, and occipital with occipital. 5. External carotid. 6. Princeps cervicis, from occipital. 7. Anastomoses between the princeps cervicis, vertebral and profunda cervicis in the region of the sub-occipital triangle. 8. Yertcbral, from the subclavian. 9. Common carotid. 10. Anastomoses between the two superior and the two inferior thyroids in the region of the thyi'oid gland. 11. Profunda cervicis, from the superior intercostal. 12. Transversalis colli. 13. Its superficial cervical branch. 14. Posterior scapular artery, one of the divisions of the trans- versalis colli branch of thyroid axis ; the other division is called the superficial cervical, and enters the trapezius. 15. Supra-scapiilar artery from the thyroid axis, anastomosing with the subscapular from the axillary. 16. Sul)clavian artery. 17. Thoracic axis, from the axillary anastomosing with the supra-scapular and posterior circumflex. 18. Superior intercostal, anastomosing witli the internal mam- mary anrl the aortic intercostals. 19. The first rili. 20. Axillary artery. 21. Superior or short tlioracic, anastomosing with the internal mammary. 22. Posterior circumflex, anastomosing with the thoracic axis and the subscapular. 23. Anastomosis between the supra-scapular and the subscapular. 24. Anastomoses between the posterior scapular and tlie sub- scapular. Subscapular artery. 26 and 27. Long thoracic, anastomosing with the internal niam- mai'y and the aortic intercostals. 28. Deep epigastric from the external iliac. 29. Internal mammary. 30. Aortic intercostals. 31. Anastonio.ses between the internal mammary and the suiieriur inlcrcostal. 32. Extei iial iliac.