294 Applied Anatomy: Anterior and Posterior Flaps (lowj anterior and short&r posteriorj.—The patient must lae brought well forwards upon the end of the table, so that the nates project beyond it, and he is further to be steadied by strong bandages—one passed between the sound thigh and the perineum and attached to the upper end of the table ; another is to be carried across the pelvis to the lower end, and the sound limb is to be tied to a leg of the table. Three special assistants are required—No. 1 has to take charge of the aortic tourniquet; No. 2 compresses the femoral artery against the brim of the pelvis, and follows the knife and secures the artery in the anterior flap; and No. 3 takes charge of the limb. A long amputating knife, with a blade at least twelve inches long, is necessary, and it is well to have a pair of lion forceps and periosteum elevators at hand. The doubtful advantages of this method are its simplicity, ease, and rapidity of performance, and, should the patient survive, a shapely stump. Formerly rapidity of execution was chiefly trusted to, to diminish the risk of shock and loss of blood. In many cases the rapidity was surprising; the late Professor Spence states that he has completed disarticulation in one case in ten seconds, in another in fifteen seconds, and even in complicated cases in less than thii-ty seconds ! The landmarks in the operation are the tuber iscliu and the anterior superior dmc spine. In operating upon the rigid leg, the operator should stand on the inner side of the limb; Avhile, if operating on the left, he ou-ht to stand on the outer side-z.e., he always stands on the left side of the limb to be removed. On the left side, the knife is entered about two finger-breadths below the anterior superior iliac spine (or almost midway between it and the great trochanter), and carried deeply through the limb, behind the vessels and obliquely across the joint, opening the capsule if possible, keep the back of the kniie parallel with PonparVs ligament, and bring its point out iust in front of the tuberosity of the ischium, or immediately below (as the patient lies on the operating table) the ridge formed bv the projecting edge of the adductor longus, taking care not to transfix the scrotum, or the opposite thigh, at the same time. The knife should be passed close to the head of the feniur, wi h its edge turned obliquely towards the joint; this will greatl}^ iacilitate division of the capsule during the first transfixion. If