318 Applied Anatomy: difficulty is, of course, tlie small space at tlio disposal of tlie Surgeon in making tUe vertical incision, without dividing the posterior circumflex artery, and perhaps the circumflex nerve as ■well. THE ELBOW JOINT. E.xcision of this joint may, just as the shoulder, be required— 1. For D/.^ease—chiefly strumous arthritis. 2. Eor Injury—iu compound and comminuted fractures, compound dislocations, and oun-shot injuries. 3. For the Remits of Injury or Dimase—^^ m osseous ankylosis, whether straight or angular. In most of the other joints excision should not be performed while there is hope ot a cure by ankylosis; but in the elbow joint it is difl'erent, and every eflbrt must be made to' secure a luovable articalatiou. In cases, however, of ankylosis of the elbow at a right angle, the joint is ^vonderfully useful; I have seen a case (a medical practitioner) where it was almost impossible, without close scrutiny, to tell the difl:erence. To control haemorrhage during the operation, empty the limb of blood by vertical elevation and apply E«mauch's elastic tourniquet over the upper part of the brachial artery. Position of the Arm.-An assistant, standing on the side opposite the diseased limb, grasps the arm above and below the elbow, keeps it moderately flexed and raised from the body and carried across the patient's chest, so as to thoroughly present the posterior aspect of the joint to the Surgeon. If more conyenien this assistant may stand at the shoulder of the same side, instead of on the opposite side. The patient should be drawn close to he edcre of the table, should be slightly inclined to the sound side, he diseased side being raised by pillows. The Surgeon stands on the san.e side as the joint to be excised, facing the patient It ma be performed by three diflerent forms of incision-(l) The H-.hapul Lision(SvMK); (2) another, which is simply the H-haped « mm. one of its upright bars ; and (3) a single longituduial v t c incision (LANGKNBECK)-(iii this case it is the H deprived of one ot its vertical limbs and also the cross-bar). I By the Single Longitudinal Vertical Incision (Hg. 63).-- Tliis is ti e form most frequently adopted. The arm being heW he position just described, begin the incision m the middle