Applied Anatomy: 568 tliickened from fibrous changes in tlie middle ear, convex from accumulations in that cavity, or concave from an ohstruction in the Eustachian tube, whereby the air has become rarefied, or absorbed. The other avenue of information as to its condition is to examine the throat, as disease of the middle ear often begins in the throat and passes upwards along the Eustachian tube to that cavity. Any condition therefore capable of setting up acute naso-pharyngeal catarrh may also produce acute inflammation of the middle ear; it is often secondary to a cold in the head, or sore throat, either simple, or after measles or scarlet fever. Purther, obstruction of the tube is very often due to hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsils (adenoid vegetations of the naso-jpliarynxj blocking its orifice. Then, by some of the means already described, the Surgeon shoiild examine whether the tube is patent or not. Adenoid Vegetations of the Naso-Pliarynx are common in scrofulous children, and especially so in cold damp climates and dwellings. Besides being partially deaf the child usually keeps the mouth open to breath through, and has a very characteristic expression of face; he snores loudly during sleep, and in some cases there may be difficulty of breathing from the co-incident hypertrophy of the tonsils. The voice is peculiarly altered, the letters ni and n being pronounced like b and d, no, no, sounding like dodo, and words beginning with com and con like cob and cod, as in common and conversation. There is also a characteristic flattening of the nostrils, as well as noises in the ears, and slight discharge of blood into the pharynx in the morning, with trouble- some morning cough and sanguineous expectoration, and sometimes also vomiting. It is very often accompanied by "chronic atrophic rhinitis." The pliaryngeul tonsils stretch across the back of the pharyngeal cavity, between the orifices of the two Eustachian tubes ( Kollikbr). Chronic Suppuration of the Middle Ear is usually caused by inflammation spreading up from the tlu'oat (naso-jiharyiiffeal catarrli), and a large number of cases usually date their com- mencement from an attack of measles or scarlet fever—j)robably again from the inflammation spreading up from the throat. This is the origin of the "running ear," and when examined the mem- b^-aija tympani is usually fouftd to be perforated; the condition