139 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. (2) it is crossed by the ureter. Behind are—(1) The internal ihac vein; (2) the himbo-sacral cord; (3) part of the pyriforniis. On tlio outer side it rests against the psoas magnus and external iliac vein. To its inner side, at the upper part, is the internal iliac vein (the internal iliac veins both lie internal to their corresponding arteries) (see Fig. 25). The steps in the operation for the ligature of this vessel are precisely similar to those for the ligature of the common iliac (see page 13G); and the bifurcation of the common iliac being found, the internal iliac is traced from it down into the pelvis. Great care is necessary, Avhen the artery is exposed, in passing the ligature, on account of the close relation of—(1) The ureter (which crosses it, but is usually turned aside with the peri- toneum); (2) the external iliac vein, on its outer side; and (3) the internal iliac vein, on its inner side, or behind it. BRANCHES.— {A) From the Anterior division—1. Visceral, to pelvic viscera—(a) The superior vesical—this vessel is found in the posterior false ligament of the bladder, and gives off the urterij to the vas deferens; (h) the inferior vesical; (c) the middle hsemorrhoidal—this vessel usually springs from the inferior vesical. In the female there are two additional arteries — uterine and vaginal. 2. Parietal, to walls of pelvis—(a) Obturator, (b) pudic, (c) sciatic. (B) From Posterior division they are all parietal— (a) Gluteal, (b) ilio-lumbar, (c) lateral sacral. Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 24).—1. Middle sacral (10), from the aorta, anastomosing Avith the lateral sacral (14), from the internal iliac. 2. Superior htemorrhoidal, from the inferior mesen- teric, anastomosing with the middle htemorrhoidal, from the internal iliac, and inferior hffimon'hoidal from the pudic. 3. The sciatic (19), from the internal iliac, anastomosing with the internal circumflex branch of the profunda (2G), from femoral. 4. The gluteal (12), from the internal iliac, anastomosing with the ascending branch of the external circumflex (21), from the profunda. 5. The pubic branch of the deep epigastric (15), anastomosing with the pubic brancli of the obturator (25). G. The ilio-lumbar (11), from the internal ih'ac, anastomosing with the lower lumbar arteries (G), and deep circumflex iliac (20). 7. The other visceral branches of the internal iliac, not included in the above list, with the corresponding branches from the other side (IG).