551 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. at the coruea and sclerotic junction, so as to open up, if possible, the angle between the iris and the cornea, where the spaces of FoNTANA lie. The portion of the iris removed in this case is always at the uii-per part, because the disfigurement is less and the optical defect also less, as it is covered by the upper lid, since the operation in this case is not performed for the purpose of securing an artificial pupil, but for curing the disease. A large bit of iris is removed; it must be pulled Avell out and cut away from the very ciUary edge. It is done during the acute stage of the disease. When for artificial pupil, only after the condition has become chronic or subsided altogether. OPERATION FOR STRABISMUS. The patient is prepared as before, but probably had better be under the influence of chloroform, or cocaine may be injected deejily. The Surgeon and assistant stand as before. Instruments required are—(1) A spring speculum, (2) straight, blunt-pointed scissors; (3) a toothed fixation forceps, and (4) a strabismus hook. The operation is performed very often more for appearance than to improve vision, as the patient has probably become accustomed to suppress the image of the squinting eye. 1. The Subconjunctival, or English Method.—A fold of the conjunctiva is pinched up helow the level of the insertion of the tendon to be divided, and then incised Avith the straight blunt- pointed scissors. The capsule of Tenon is now exposed, and must be divided by thrusting in the point of the scissors below the conjunctiva. The probe-pointed strabismus hook is then passed into the wound, with the concavity downwards and the point backwards, through the opening in the conjunctiva and capsule, and carried along tlie surface of tlie sclerotic; the concavity of the hook is then turned upwards, its point being kept close to the sclerotic, and slipped between the tendon and the globe. The hook is tlicn pulled forwards, the tendon raised oft" the surface of the globe and divided by the scissors, between the hook and the globe; make sure that all the fibres are divided by passing the hook back and then drawing it forwards again, when it will slip forAvards beneath the conjunctiva as far as the edge of tlio cornea if the tendon is completely divided.