182 Applied A)ialoiiiy: 14. Retractors of strong calico split at one end. In cases Avhere there is but one bone, split it into two tails; where there are two bones it must be split into three tails. This method of retracting the tissues is sometimes used in the circular and in the combined flap and circular plans of amputation, but is not necessary in the pure flap amputations, the fingers of an assistant being all that is required. By this means, not only are the soft parts retracted, but are, at the same time, protected from the teeth of the saw, and from impregnation -with sawdust. 15. Dissecting Forceps. Assistants.~The number required will necessarily vary much. The following is a fauly complete list:— No. 1, to administer chloroform. No. 2, to empty the limb of blood and command the main artery, take charge of the tourniquet, etc. No. 3, to attend to the flaps, to retract, etc. No. 4, to hold the part to be removed. No. 5, to assist operator—keeping the wound free of blood, nnd catching up small vessels with Wells's or Plan's forceps, and ligaturing the vessels as they are seized by operator. ^ No. 6, to hand instruments to operator and his assistant. No. 7', to wash sponges and supply them as required to No. :> or operator. In a well appointed hospital it is a simple matter to find plenty of assistants; but in many cases, e.g., in country practice, it is impossible, and the operator has to do the work almost single- handed. Hereafter, in describing the different operations, to avoid unnecessary repetition, I shaU only mention the duties of the assistant who has charge of the leg, with an occasional reference to the one who has to look after the flaps. DIFFERENT METHODS. I The Circular IVIethod (Benjamin Bell).—In the old and original circular method all the tissues were cut through at one level. This was before the days of tourniquets or chloroform. From this crude origin there was a gradual progress iq) to the tune when it maybe said to have been perfected by Bell, and was from