371 S/iro-iorl, Mdlical, and Operative. from the loss of trojih/c mtfueme; this may he brought about in three ways—(1) In cord lesions causing destruction of the large cells in the anterior horn of the cord at the origin of the nerve, as sometimes seen in infantile paralysis (polio-myelitis anterior acuta) ; (2) injury to the trunk of the nerve from a blow, or in fracture of tlie u^jper end of the humerus; and (3) in disease of the joiut, giving rise to a peripheral ascending neuritis, destroying the nerve and paralysing the muscle. Methods of Reduction. —(1) Direct extension and counter extension, e.g., by pulleys. (2) The unbooted heel in the axilla; this is the usual and best method. The heel is pressed against the axillary border of the scapula to steady and fix it, while the upper part of the foot acts as a fulcrum at the upper end of the humerus; the heel should be pressed outwards away from the chest, so as to avoid injury to the ribs. It matters but httle the exact direction in which the force is applied, as the mobile scapula readily places itself in the most favourable position. The traction should be applied directly to the lower end of the humerus, other- wise, on account of the angle formed by the bones of the fore- arm with the humerus, some of the force is necessarily dissipated, besides straining the ligaments of the elbow joiut. If more force is required than can be got by a manual grip, then a worsted laque or large handkerchief should be applied above the elbow, in the form of a clove hitch, and extension made by pulling the ends of the laque. Before applying the clove hitch a turn or two of wetted bandage should be placed round the limb, to avoid slipping, and also to prevent excoriation of the skin. (3) By the knee in the axilla. The Surgeon stands behind the patient, with his foot on the edge of the chair on which the patient is seated, and tries to catch him and the muscles of his shoulder unawares' during the course of the ordinary examination, and thus jerk the bone suddenly into its place. (4) By drawing the arm vertically upwards, parallel with tlie side of the patient's head, and at the same time fixing the acromion with his foot or other hand. (5) By nmnipulation. The difficulty in applying this method successfully to the shoulder joint, is the mobility of the scapula. In the sub- coracoid form, the movements arc :—flex the elbow to a right angle, then flex the shoulder joint, carry the arm across the chest,