Applied Anatomy: 256 ankle. The flaps are then to be dissected up, taking care of the posterior tibial and plantar arteries, which are found in the centre of the large internal flap ; in order to preserve these vessels it is necessary to go down to the bone at once, and dissect up muscles and all in one mass. Disarticulation is then performed, the tibia and fibula cleared and sawn as in Symb's amputation, and with the same precautions. The advantages claimed for this method are—1. It can be performed in cases where the tissues on the outer side of the foot have been destroyed by disease or accident. 2. When the patient lies on his side the large internal flap is kept in good position by its own weight. 3. There is a free exit for discharges, etc., from the posterior and outer side, so that there is less risk of pain and tension and putrefaction of the accumulated discharges. 4. There is no risk of sloughing, as the posterior tibial and the two plantar arteries are in the centre of the flap. It is a curious fact that the stump in this amputation in a very short time comes to resemble the stump in Syjie's amputation -so closely that it is ahnost impossible to tell the one from the other. 3. Pirogoff's Method.—The peculiar feature of this amputation is the preservation of the posterior part of the os calcis in the heel flap, which is adjusted to the cut sui-face of the tibia and fibula. The' foot is held at right angles to the leg, and the incision begins and ends at the same points as in Mr Syme's amputation (see Figs. 50, 51, P), but is not made directly across the foot, as m that'method, but should be carried obliquely forwards, so that the centre of the incision in the sole is an inch and a half in front of a line drawn transversely across the sole from the tip of one malleolus to the other, or a little beyond the anterior end of the OS calcis The incision must go down to the bone obliquely, and, therefore, the blade of the knife must not be held at right angles to the sole. The edge of the flap may then be freed from the bone for about half-an-inch; the foot is next to be extended, and a draiglit cut is made across the front of the ankle joint uniting the two ends of the first incision.- Disarticulation is next performed, as in Syme's amputation, by opening the thin anterior ligament of the ankle joint and then dividing he strong lateral ligaments, with the point of the knife niserted between