Applied Anatomy: 412 To reduce these dislocations, flex the leg on the thigh, extend the ankle joint so as to relax the muscles of the calf and the tendo achiUis; one assistant must now hold the thigh firmly, another seizes the foot and pulls in the direction of the long axis of the leg, while the Surgeon, hy manipulation and pressure, endeavours to replace the bone. In difficult cases it may be neces- sary to divide the tendo achillis, and probably always at once in the forward variety. After reduction, the leg is to be placed in the box spUnt (see " Fracture of the Bones of the Leg"). In some cases it may be necessary to resect or even amputate. 5. Upwards.—In this case the two bones are separated, the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments being ruptured and the astragalus forced up between them; the anterior and posterior hgaments are torn. It is caused by falls on the feet from a great height, the foot being at right angles to the leg, and neither flexed nor extended; the characteristic appearance is the increased width of the ankle joint, due to the separation of the malleoh. It is to be reduced in a similar way to that adopted in the other cases of dislocation. Sometimes it may be found impossible to do it; nevertheless, by patience, a useful foot may result. OTHER DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. Dislocations of the Astragalus.—In all dislocations of this bone the malleoli are nearer the sole than they should be, but are not separated from each other more than the normal distance, and there is little, if any, alteration in the length of the heel or of the anterior part of the foot. The astragalus is thrown out of proper relation, both with the bones of the leg and the other bones of the tarsus; there is an entire loss of flexion and extension at the ankle joint. The ligaments connecting the astragalus with the other bones of the ankle are torn. 1. Forwards.—The most cojnmon form. The astragalus is shot forward like an orange pip from between the finger and thumb, and rotated slightly at the same time—usually to the outer side. It may be complete or incomplete. A swelling is noticed to one or other side, wliich is the round, globular liead of the astragalus covered by ten.se skin; it maybe possible to distinguish the outlme