48 Applied Anatomy: is usually from falling back of tlie tongue, or paralysis and adhesion of the vocal cords in such a Avay as to make induration impossible, but yet allow of expiration—from the slightly oblique position of the cords in the vertical direction. In this condition, the move- ments of the chest are apt to mislead the unwary, as it is heaving vigorously, and yet no air is entering the windpipe. For the respiratory dangers of this class, the best treatment is to see that the tongue is pulled well forwards, and the vocal cords separated, and then use artificial respiration (Sylvester's Method). If this is not sufficient, then perform laryngotomy, and forcibly blow air into the lungs, as they have stopped in full expiration, and after this use artificial respiration. But the respiratory process may be affected in another way— asphyxia from vomited matters or blood. To avoid this, see that the patient has had no food for some hours before the operation, so that the stomach is empty, and operate in such a way or with such precautions that no blood can pass through the chink of the glottis. There is reason to believe, as Listbb, I think, points out, that sicloiess is often induced by administering the chloroform by tits and starts—allowing the patient almost to recover consciousness, and then to suddenly give him a great gust of the vapour. At any rate, sickness is most common when the patient is lialf under, whether it be just as he is going under at first, or that ■ he is allowed to partially regain consciousness during the progress of the operation. Children are peculiarly favourable subjects for chloroform, and it is best to suffocate them at once, unless they can be coaxed into taking it. There is absolutely no danger in so doing. This has been explained on physiological principles, but I am inclined to think that it does not depend so much on physiological as upon psychological causes. The child truly, takes no thought for its life, but the adult is careful and troubled about many things: in this respect, the child has chosen the better part. In the Adult, give gently and slowly at first with a free supply of atmospheric air; and should there be much strugglfug, remove the chloroform altogether, and allow him to take a good breath or two and probably before he feels in need of another such breath he will have passed quietly under. Let me also give a single hint