Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 575 there is putrid pus under high tension, osteoplilebitis, and septic thrombosis, which thrombi break down and form minute septic emboli, with all their secondary results. The question is, when to interfere % It is doubtful Avhether one ought to trephine without first having signs of tenderness to pressure, superficial or deep; and again, it will probably do little good if there are already signs of wides^jread septic infection, or diffuse suppurative meningitis. Still, even in such a condition, opening and washing out cannot l^lace the patient in any worse a condition than before, and may do a great deal of good. In trephining tlie mastoid antrum, a smaU-headed trephine should be used, and it must be entered on a level with the upper wall of, and as near the meatus as possible, and it should be directed forwards, inwards, and slightly upwards. Probably a less complicated form of instrument, such as a gimlet or gouge, is aU. that is required, and will be equally efficient in cases demand- ing this operation. In either case, were the instrument directed at right angles to the mastoid process, there is great danger of going too deeply and oj^ening the lateral sinus, and yet missing the object of the ojjeration. An incision should be made from below upwards, parallel with the attachment of the auricle and half-an- inch behind it, so as to avoid the posterior auricular artery. After having made an opening it must be treated in the same way as any other suppurating cavity—viz., introduce a drainage tube through the mastoid cells, or antrum, into the tympanic cavity, and wash it out occasionally with some warm antiseptic fluid, such as boracic acid, in both directions, from the external audi- tory meatus, and also from the drainage tube. For the relief of superficial inflammation, or abscess of the mastoid process, a similar incision should be used. Fig. 119, from a specimen in the possession of Dr Syjiington, shows very well the relation of the mastoid antrum to the attic, or upper chamber, of the tympanic cavity, and to the external auditory meatus. In the specimen in question the squamosa- mastoid, or external petro-squamous suture, was persistent, so that the tenq)oral bone consisted of two parts—one, formed by the united petro-mastoid, tympanic, and styloid elementsj the other, by tlic squamosa. In the figure the squamosa has been disarticulated