Snri^iar/, Jlfedica/, and Operative. 1.21 and the steps of the operation are ahnost j^recisely similar to those of the previons operation. The incision need not be quite so long, and, as the nerve lies on the outer side and close to the vessel, the needle should be passed from the nerve. .3. In the lower tilird, where it lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and the flexor carpi radialis, resting on the flexor longus poUicis, pronator quadratus and the end of the radius. The radial nerve has by this time left the artery to pass to the back of the hand, and therefore lies considerably to its outer side. Make an incision two inches in length in the middle of the space, bounded by the supinator longus ou the outer side, and the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side; at this point the artery may be felt pulsating. Divide the skin, fascia, cutaneous vessels, and nerves (usually one of the terminal branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve lies over the artery). When the deep fascia is divided, the artery is seen with its venfe comites; avoid these in clearing the vessel and in passing the needle. Complete the operation in the usual manner, passing the needle from the side most convenient. 4. At the root of the thumb (in the " anatomist's snuff-hox"). From the anterior aspect of the radius, the artery passes round the root of the thumb to the first interosseous sj^ace, where it disappears between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (ahchicfnr indicis) ; it lies on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, scaphoid and trapezium, covered by the skin and fascia, the large radial vein, filaments of the radial nerve, and the three extensors of the thumb—ossis metacarpi, primi internodii, and secundi internodii. It is accompanied by its venaj comites and a twig from the musculo-cutaneous nerve. With the hand held by an assistant in a position midway between j^ronation and supination, the operator makes an incision an inch and a half in length from tlie posterior part of the root of the styloid process of the radius to the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, external to the largo vein, and almost parallel with the tendon of the extensor secundi. Tlie first incision divides the superficial structures, but should not injure the vein already mentioned, l^ividc the deep fascia, hold tlie tendons aside, when the artery with its venre comites and a small nerve will be seen crossing ilie wound obliquely. Separate the venfe comites and tie the vessel in tlie usual manner.