Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 817 minor, with the capsule, by cutting directly on the anatomical neck of the humerus. 5. Divide the posterior part of capsule, force head of bone through the wound and remove it by Butcher's saw, with blade reversed. 6. Examine glenoid cavity and do what may be necessary. 7. IMake an opening for drainage behind, by dressing forceps and knife, and afterwards dress the Avouiid, fixing the arm to the side. XuTE.—Mr Spence reversed the steps 3 and 4 of this resume., dividing the muscles attached to the great tuberosity first. He regarded the division of the broad attachment of the subscapularis into the small tuberosity as the Imj of the operation. II. By the U- or rather V-shaped Flap, with the base upwards, from the deltoid. Tlie incision is commenced at the posterior border of the acromion process, and carried across the line of inser- tion of the deltoid, and terminates at the outer side of the coracoid process. The flap thus marked out is raised; if possible, save the periosteum and tendons, as in the last operation, by making a longitudinal incision on the outer aspect of the capsule and head of humerus, and raising the periosteum and tendons en masse by an elevator. In doing this the arm should be brought across the chest. Tlie bone is sawn, the glenoid cavity examined as in the last method, and after this the flap is replaced and retained by sutures, and a drainage tube inserted behind. The disadvantages of this method are—(1) The great mutilation of the deltoid muscle, and, conse(iuently, a much less useful arm is left; and (2) tlie division of the trunk of the posterior circumflex artery, and, in consequence, more severe hieraorrhage tlian by the other method. Its only advantage is that it is more easily performed than by tlie single longitudinal incision. In some cases it may be advisaljle to excise the joint from behind, through a vertical incision from tlie root of the acromion process downwards, hut not extending so low as to divide tlie circumflex nerve and posterior circumflex artery; this method is specially indicated where the tissues behind arc involved in the diseased action, but those in the front comparatively sound. Tlio