Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 303 3. Vessels—(«) The long saphenous vein, [b) the femoral vessels (in the anterior flap), («) the profunda vessels and the external cir- cumflex, ((?) the sciatic vessels, (e) the gluteal vessels (the gluteal and sciatic vessels are found in the posterior flap), (/) the internal circumflex (close to the inner side of the acetabulum), and {g) the upper perforating will also he cut. 4. Nerves—(«) The branches of the anterior crural, {h) the branches of the obturator, (c) the great sciatic, {d) the small sciatic, (e) the external cutaneous, and (/) the branches of the superior gluteal. 5. Ligaments— (a) The capsular ligament, (/;) the ligamentum teres, and (c) the ilio-femoral band. RESUME :—I propose now to give a short resume of what I believe to be the best methods of procedure, to act as a kind of guide to the student, who must, to a certain extent, be guided by the advice of others till he is old enough to judge for himself:— THE FOOT. In all operations on the foot and ankle, the long flap—the one that bears the greatest amount of pressure afterwards—should be taken from the sole, since the tissue here has been accustomed to bear weight. 1. Terminal Phalanx of Great Toe.—A long plantar flap, made in the same way as in the terminal phalanges of the fingers, with or without a short dorsal flap. 2. An Entire Toe. —The "oval," the straight part of the incision being dorsal : in the case of the big toe take plenty of tissue from the side of the proximal phalanx to cover in the large head of the metatarsal bone, making the inner part of the oval larger than the outer; do not remove the head of the bone as this will destroy the tripod, and a study of the laws of Natural Philosophy teaches us tliat a body can stand most securely on three points, and on three points only. Tlie same remarks apply to the little and other toes. 3. For an Entire Toe with its Metatarsal Bone. —The " racket-sliapcd" incision, the long straight part of the incision being dorsal, and the oval part at tlio level of the metatarso- phalangeal articulation.