407 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. THE ANKLE. The Ankle Joint.—(7/«ss, Diarthrosis; Sub-Class, Ginglymns. Ligaments—(1) The anterior, (2) posterior—these two are very thiuj (3) interaal lateral or deltoid, from the apex of the internal malleolus to the scaphoid, os calcis, and astragalus; and (4) external lateral, which consists of three strong fesciculi—(a) the anterior passes from the anterior part of the external malleolus to the front part of the astragalns; (h) the middle passes from the tip of the external malleolus to the onter surface of the os calcis; and (c) the 2)(isterior passes backwards horizontally from the pit on the inner side of the malleolus to the posterior surface of the astragalus. The Nerves of tlie joint are derived from the internal saphenous and anterior tibial. The first is derived originally from the lumbar plexus, the second from the sacral. Movements. — The movements at the ankle joint are chiefly flexion, and extension, and dorsiflexion. The normal position of the foot is supposed to be at right angles to the leg; extension is pointing the toes, flexion is bringing the foot back again to a right angle, and dorsiflexion is when the foot passes the right anp'le and its upper surface approaches the front of the leg. There Is also a certain amount of movement from side to side wlien the foot is extended, because the posterior part of the articular surface of the astragalus is narrower than the anterior, but in the erect position there is no lateral movement possible. There are other two movements spoken about as occurring at the ankle—viz., eversion and inversion; the first of these movements is not very free, the second form is much freer. In Eversion, the outer border of the foot IS raised and drawn outwards. In tlie production of this form of club-foot (talipes valgus) there is, in the first instance an obliteration of the arch of the foot, so that the sole becomes perfectly flat (talipes planus, or flat-foot), and as the disease advances, eversion of the foot takes place. The flattening of tlie foot is due to tlio relaxation of the ligaments that support the arches of the foot; the ligaments that support the transverse arch are chiefly the interosseous ligaments, between the cuneiform and the cuboid bones; those that support the longitudinat arch are— (1) tlie long plantar ligament (the inferior calcaneo-cuboid); (2) the