297 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. sufficiently loDg, as the skiu is very coiiti'uctilc—six to eiglit incLcs IjotU trout and back. The great objection to this plan is that all the irregularities have to till np by teilions granulation, and may nut be thoroughly healed for yeai'S. Furneaux Jordan's Amputation.—The soundness of the prin- ciples of this method has already been fully demonstrated in practice, and at the present time the Avhole question of amputation at tlie hip joint has been revolutionised. The days of the old classical llap methods arc numbered. I:!ut in the case of malignant disease, with infiltration of the soft parts, Jokuan's method cannot be adopted, and .skin flaps must be used instead. The principles of the method are—1. To cut across the limb where it is smaller and further removed from the trunk, and to interfere as little as possible with the bulky soft parts at the tipper and inner part of tlie thigh. 2. Ligature of all the blood-vessels on the face of the stump. 3. To enucleate the femur by an iucision through a part where it is' most thinly covered by soft textures, and where the blood-vessels are small and few, keeping the edge of the knife cutting on the bone as it is being cleared on tlie inner side. Either the one or the other of tliese two plans may be adopted—that is, we may either divide tlie soft parts circularly low down the thigh, tie all the vessels, and tlien dissect out the bone through a long incision on the outer aspect of the limb, or else dislodge the head of the femur first from the acetabulum, separate the shaft from tlie soft parts, and cut across the soft parts last and low down- according to the taste of the operator. Probably the best way is to divide the soft parts and bone circularly low down, then tie all the vessels, turn the patient over to the sound side, and remove the head and upper part of the shaft of the femur through the vertical incision on the outer aspect of the limb. The circular division of the limb is accomplished by means of a large transfixion knife ; for the rest of the operation a knile somewhat resembling the knife used in Syme's amputation will bo found most convenient. A probe-pointed knife is sometimes used, though this is unnecessary, provided the operator keeps the edge of his knife close to the bone. In this case the leg is held projecting from the buttock over the edge of the table, slightly flexed or horizontal. To prevent the i.atient moving during the progress of the operation, he sliould