464 Applied Anatomy: including tlic tliumb, then over the back of the liand to the uhiur side, and then take a turn round the wrist, thus completing and fixing the figure-of-eight. On reaching the spot where we com- menced, the roller is then carried forwards over the first and second fingers, taking care to leave a free margin hanging over the radial side of the index finger; now carry the bandage back over the palmar aspect, to meet at the same spot as before, and complete by a turn round the wrist. Repeat this three or four times, bringing each turn nearer the ulnar side, and at last leaving a free margin there, as on the radial side. Then carry the bandage round the wrist, as in the first figure-of-eight, being careful to catch and secure the free margins left at each side of the hand. Repeat this two or three times, and then take a turn round the wrist, and fasten. Second Method, to be used in cases of transverse fracture of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and probably also in the case of the index and little fingers as well. In the previous method, the neighbouring bones act as lateral splints to the ring and middle lingers." In the case of the others, however, it wiU probably be better to keep the hand straight and apply a weU-paddcd splint along the anterior aspect, and bandage the injured digit m that position; and certainly always do so in the case of the metacarpal bone of the thumb —the one most frequently broken. AYerc they treated like the middle or ring fingers, the bandage would force the broken ends towards the other bones and lead to marked deformity. Transverse fractures of the Phalanges must be treated by a well-padded, straight, anterior splint, with a specially thick pad opposite the middle of the broken phalanx, to fill up the hoUow that naturally exists opposite the midcUe of the phalanges. In the ca.se, however, of oWuiue fracture of the phalanges, or of the metacarpa bones, it will be necessary in every case to pnt up the fracture n the straight position and apply some form of extension. Ihis ma be accomplished by the use of an internal rectangular splint, passin, some distance beyond the tips of the fingers, together with an elasti band brought over the lower end of the splint and then fastened te its upper end, while the other end is attached to a more or less complete finger-stool of sticking-plaster, which is in turn to be attached to the injured finger.