64 Applied Anatomy: scapular); (4) phrenic nerve; (5) scalenus anticus muscle; (6) the subclavian vein is separated from the artery by the scalenus anticus, and is on a much lower level as a rule. Beldnd—{1) Pleura; (2) middle scalenus; (3) first dorsal nerve. Above, we have the brachial plexus, whUe beloiv it rests on the pleura. Should it be necessary to tie this part, the vessel may be reached by means of the following incisions—a transverse one over the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid, from two to three inches in length, and a vertical one about two inches long, rather external to the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, meeting the former at an acute angle; the position of the Surgeon and patient are the same as for ligature of the first part. The flap thus mapped out, consisting of the mtegu- ment platysma and deep fascia, is raised upwards and inwards, and the external jugular vein drawn outwards, if necessary; the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid is then divided from with- out inwards, on a director, in order to expose the scalenus anticus. Lyiu" on this muscle the following structures wUl very hkely be seen—(a) the internal jugular vein along its inner border; {h) the transversalis colli and supra-scapular arteries, and the anterior iu-ularvein; (c) the phrenic nerve; {d) in some cases also the external jugular vein along its outer border. These structures must be drawn aside in the most convenient manner and careluily guarded from injury. A director is next pushed under the outer ed"e of the scalenus anticus, which is then to be cautiously divided for°a half or two-thirds of its extent when it retracts sufficiently to brines the artery into view, and after carefuUy clearing the vessel the aneurism needle is passed from below upwards. As a guide to the position of the scalenus anticus it is useful to remember that the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid almost corresponds to the outer edge of that muscle, though the scalenus is slightly external, and the external jugular vein often rests on the uncovered part. I^ToTB—(1) In dividing the scalenus anticus special care must be taken to avoid cutting or bruising the phrenic nerve, which ics on its anterior surface, inclining obliquely towards its inner border. Two cases are mentioned by Euichskk one in which the phreiuc nerve was divided, and the patient died on the eigh h day, of reumonia; in the other case, incessant hiccough followed the nd after death the phrenic novvo was found reddened