Surgical, ]\Iedical, and Operative. 421 (iieerosis = gangrene of the soft parts), because the extra blood demand cannot bo supplied in time to keep the bone alive, as it takes a week or ten days before the compact tissue can be opened up sufficiently. (2) If it is not quite so acute the bone becomes rarefied. (3) If at this stage, instead of beginning to subside,, the inflammation continues, the bone becomes so rarefied that the trabecula? give ^vay and now we liave the condition of caries: (= ulceration of the soft parts, which is in turn = suppuration on a free surface), the broken trabeculjB flow away with the de- generated cells, and tissue remains ( = pm). Hence it is that the pus m this case feels cjrithj, and so also when a probe is passed it enters soft, spongy, and very sensitive bone. This same series of changes also occurs in the formation of the "line of demarcation " which cuts off a dead mass of bone from the living, in cases of necrosis. (4) But suppose the inflammation is chronic, what takes place? The bone becomes sclerosed, the Haversian canals are filled up, and the whole bone may become hard and heavy as ivory; witness, for example, the hard polished articular ends of bones in chronic rheumatic arthritis, and the nodes on the surface of the tibia m syphilis, due to the localised chronic periostitis so common in the later stages of that disease. FRACTURE IN GENERAL. Fractures may be divided into Hhnine, Qompound, and Com- in,cafed. 1. A Simple Fracture is one where the bone is merely broken across, split, or fissured, but where tliere is no wound of the soft parts communicating with the broken bones, nor yet near the injured point. 2. A Compound Fracture is one where the bone IS not only broken, but the soft parts are torn through, so that the fracture communicates by a wound with tlie surface of the bodv either through the skin or through the mucous membrane, as in the case of the lower jaw. The wound in the soft parts may be caused n, two ways :-(a) I3y the sharp end of the broUn being forced through the skin, as in fractures caused by indirect violence-e r, fracture of the tibia by a twist; {h) by ike mncry tiiat breaks the t...nc, as m the different forms of direct violence. 3. A Complicated Fracture, when with the fracture is conjoined some other condition injury whicli luis no immediate connectioii witli the fractures'