Applied Anatomy: 298 be laid on the souud side and maintained in that position from the very beginning of the operation; the Surgeon Avill be able readily enough to perform the circular amputation in that position. Another assistant pulls the integuments Avell upwards, while the Surgeon encircles the limb by one sweep of the knife through the skin, fat, and fascia; the skin and fat are then dissected upwards a little way, and the muscles divided by another circular sweep of the knife down to the bone, which is sawn on a level with the muscles. Some divide the skin and muscles at the same level, but it is better, I think, at any rate in muscular limbs, to retract the skin and subcutaneous fat a short distance first. A neater stump will be obtained by shaping the skin incisions in the form of two slightly convex flaps. It will be observed, therefore, that the plan adopted is a combination of the flap and circular methods. All the vessels are then secured, and the bone disarticulated and dissected out through the vertical incision. After the limb has been removed by the circular amputation, the bone is held by a lion forceps fixed in the medullary cavity, and the muscles about the great trochanter divided, first behind and then in front, and the capsule, especially the strong anterior part, opened, and thereafter air admitted into the acetabulum, either by dividing the transverse ligament, and the other structures in that neighbourhood, or else by forcing the point of the knife into the joint through the cotyloid ligament. By this means we get rid of the atmospheric pressure which keeps the bones m contact. The muscles attached to the shaft and smaU trochanter are next divided, and then, by forcible abduction, the bone will readily spring from its socket; the hgamentum teres and any remaining soft tissues are divided, and the bone removed. During these manipulations an assistant must support the large muscular mass on the inner side of the thigh with one hand, while with the other, as necessary from time to time, he holds the lion forceps, and gently rotates the bone so that the operator may find out the structures stUl attaclied to the bone. The operator must cut close to the bone, especially in freeing it on the mner side, so as not to disturb the muscular mass beyond it. The vertical incision should be made towards the posterior part of the great trochanter for two reasons-(l) because there the blood-vessels are least