Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 447 is paralysed, as in " crutch palsy," in " Saturday night palsy," and by pressure of the axillary pad in cases of fracture of the clavicle, this muscle is paralysed to the same extent as the rest of the group. The "reaction of degeneration," and atrophy (from the loss of trophic influence, and not from disuse alone), also result from lesions of the nerve trunks, but not so rapidly as in lead-poisoning. The following fourteen muscles are supplied by the musculo- spiral nerve, either directly or mdirectly—(1) Biceps, (2) triceps, (3) the anconeus, (4) supinator longus, (5) extensor carpi radialis longior, (6) extensor carpi radialis brevior, (7) extensor communis digitorum, (8) extensor minimi digiti, (9) extensor carpi ulnaris, (10) extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, (11) extensor secundi' inter- nodii polhcis, (12) extensor primi internodii pollicis, (13) extensor indicis, and (14) supinator brevis. In paralysis of the posterior interosseous alone, in injuries involving the external condyle, there is only partial loss of supina- tion and extension, as the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior are not affected, being supplied directly from the trunk of the musculo-spiral. Should this condition last any length of time, the paralysed muscles tend to increase in length from the constant tension of the still healthy muscles, while the latter in like manner shorten, as they have nothing to oppose them, conse- quently the fingers become flexed, and the hand crumpled up into a " duh-hawi;' somewhat resembling that seen after bad cases of teno-synovitis, or in contraction of the palmar fascia. The muscles supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve are from G to U, inclusive, of the list given under the musculo-spiral nerve. In fractures of the internal condyle the ulnar nerve may be implicated in a similar way. In tliis case there will be great loss of power in the ring and little fingers, adduction and flexion of the thumb will be imperfect, and adduction and abduction of the index and middle fingers impaired, as the interossei are paralysed. The position the hand assumes in lesions of the ulnar nerve is known as the " dmued hand," or " main en ririffe ; " it is due to paralysis of the interossei allowing the opposing muscles to have it all their own way, the result being extension of the first and flexion of the second and third phalanges, the hand thus assuming tlie bird-claw position. It must be distinguished from a similar appearance found