Surgical, MedzcaJ, and Operative. 56l llie most internal layer of the membrana tympaui. It is easy to uuderstaud, therefore, how this nerve may be implicated by disease of the middle ear, and its function consequently stimulated, causing an excessive flow of saliva, or altogether destroyed. 4. The inner wall is vertical, and looks almost directly out- M-ards. On this wall, note—(a) The Fenestra ovalis, a depression which leads to the vestibule, but which is closed by a membrane similar in structure to the membrana tympani; the depression is occupied by the base of the stapes. {1) The Fenestra rotunda, a depression which leads to the scala tympani of the coclJea. It IS also closed by a membrane resembling the tympanic membrane in structure. {<■) The Promontory, a hollow prominence formed by tlie first turn of the cochlea; it is placed anteriorly, and between the two fenestrse, and is grooved by the nerves of the tympanic plexus, {d) The rounded eminence of the Aqucedndiis FaUopii, which lodges the facial nerve, (e) The Pyramid; it contains the stapedius muscle, and has a small opening at its apex for the exit of tlie tendon of that muscle; there is also a minute canal for the nei-ve to the stapedius, from the facial. •5. In the Posterior wall are the openings of the mastoid cells, one large (the mastoid antrum) and several smaller openings; the openings are near tlic roof of the cavity. G. In the Anterior wall we find—(«) The canal for the tensor tympani; {h) the processus cochleariformis, a process of bone which separates the above from (c) the Eustacliian tube, whicli IS the lower and larger of the two openings. By this tube the middle ear communicates with the nasal part of the pharynx. The external auditory meatus, the tympanic cavity, and the Eustachian tube, are all developed from the upper part of the ltrst branchial deft. The arteries of the tympanum are—(1) Tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which enters the tympanum through the (ilaserian fissure; (2) the stylo-mastoid branch of posterior auricular, wliich enters at tlie stylo-mastoid foramen ; (.3) petrosal branch of meningeal, entering tlirough tlio hiatus Fallopii; (-1) a branch from the ascending pharyngeal, passing up the Eustachian tube; and (5) a small twig from the internal carotid artery, enter- ing through the anterior wall of the cavity. Its Nerves are-