Sirrgical, Medical, ami Operative. 293 artery. Tlio front jiurt ol" the band passes parallel wiLli Puiii)arl,'s ligament and compresses the artery against the pelvic bone, the l)osteriur turn runs across the great sciatic notch and compresses tlie vessels passing througli it—especially the sciatic and gluteal. Tiiis is the method chiefly to be recommended in Avhat is known as Jordan's amputation at tlie hip joint, or its modifications. 4. Davy's Lever.—This is used to compress the common iliac artery, as it lies in the groove between the last lumbar vertebra and the psoas muscle. It is a smooth, round, wooden "lever," shaped like a poker, and about two feet long. Two ounces of olive oil are first injected, and the lever is then passed into the rectum sufficiently far to permit its point to press the vessel at the spot mentioned, while the other end is carried towards tlie thigh of the opposite side and its handle raised, wlien it acts as a lever of the first order, the anus being the fulcrum. Two precautions are necessary in the use of this instrument—1. It must not be used Avhere the coats of the rectum are diseased, as it may easily perforate them and lead to a fatal result. 2. In cases where the meso-rectum is abnormally short it may be impossible, without unnecessary force, to compress the artery on the right side. ■3. By a Steel Skewer. —"A long sharp-pointed steel skewer is passed across the upper part of the limb well behind the great vessels. A piece of india-rubber tubing is applied in the form of figure-of-eight, so as to constrict the parts on the posterior aspect of the limb, and then a separate piece of tubing is applied so as to constrict the textures on the anterior aspect, so that the circulation is thus completely commanded " (Spexce). fi. Digital Compression of the femoral artery as it lies on tlie ilio-pectiueal eminence. The assistant stands on tlie side of tlie patient on which the vessel is to lie compressed, and grasps as much of the limb as po.ssible with both liands, fixing the tips of the fingers of the one hand below the adductor muscles, and those of the other on the posterior border of the great trochanter, while the thumb.s are placed one above the other over the vessel as it lies on the above-named prominence of bone. In the antero- posterior flap amputation this assistant must be prepared to follow the knife into the first incision and grasp the (lap lirmly, so as to compress tlie femoral artery before t.lie knife cuts its way out.