573 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. from the mastoid process, the crown of the trephine encroaching upon the inferior curved hne; this point is sufficiently removed from either the horizontal or the descending portion of the lateral sinus, and also forms a dependent point for drainage. A horse- shoe incision is made through the tissue at this spot, the ends of the incision being a little above the external occipital protuberance, and the bend slightly below the level of a line joining the apices of the mastoid processes. The occipital artery is divided, and must be secured at once. Mr Barker advocates a point an inch and a half behind the centre of the meatus, and an inch below IiEid's " base line." RESUME of the various possible setiuehe of chronic middle- car suppuration (otitis media):— 1. Disease of the Mastoid Cells (see page 574). 2. Phlebitis and Thrombosis of lateral sinus. Signs— High temperature, rigors, swelling, and pain in the course of the internal jugular vein and side of face, from venous obstruction. 3. Subdural Abscess.—This is not common in the adult, and is accompanied by liigh temperature, probably caries, and Potts's puffy swelling. 4. Meningitis.—Signs of irritation of the motor and sensory functions of the brain, as well as the special senses, gradually passing into paralysis, coma, and death. Js^ote especially the excited state, the high temperature, the intense headache, and the tenderness to pressure, or tapping, over the cerebrum. 5. Pyaemia.—The usual signs of this disease, Avith secondary abscesses. G. Cerebral Abscess.—Slow pulse, low temperature, great mental torpor, but absence of marked headache or tenderness to pressure or tapping, 7. Cerebellar Abscess. — Symptoms supposed to point to this condition are—(1) Occipital headache, (2) cerebral vomituig, (3) retraction of the head, (4) loss or hu- pairment of balancing power, (5) persistent dilatation of the pupil {mydriasis), and (6) tonic nuiscular spasm, must marked on same side as the abscess.