Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 301 tliumb before it is divided. The Surgeon stands behind for the right thigh, and in front for the left, so as to grasp the flaps with liis left liand; he should further be provided with a moderate- sized amputating knife, the blade being about six inches long. On the right side the incision is commenced about two inches above the great trochanter, and carried down to the bone and along the shaft for six or seven inches below the trochanter, and at this point the incision is made to bifurcate, passing respectively forwards and backwards for about two inches, so as to mark the point where the "oval" is to surround the thigh. The assistant now abducts the limb, and the operator pushes his thumb into the slit made in the two smaller glutei, which he stretches, and with the point of the knife separates the muscles from the trochanter and upper part of tlie femur, first in front and then behind. The assistant next forcibly adducts the limb, and at the same time tries to lift the head of the femur out of its socket, by placing one of his hands on the inner side of the thigh, as high up as possible. The Surgeon then opens the joint by making a free cut in the line of the first incision, so as to slit open the capsule and divide the cotyloid ligament, and then carries the knife along the posterior attachment of the capsule. The head of the bone should now spring out of its socket, but if not it may be dragged out by seizing the great trochanter with a pair of lion forceps ; the round ligament is next divided. The anterior part of the capsule is then cut, the knife passed over the head of the bone, and the assistant then grasps the trochanter and pulls the bojie forcibly out of the wound, while the operator holds the soft parts out of the way with his left hand, and passes his knife along the inner side of the femur, freeing the bone from the soft ])arts as low as required. All this time the limb must be in a position of extreme adduction. When the bone is cleared as far as necessary, it is replaced in its bed, and the liml) brouglit into a straiglit line witli tlie trunk, and the Surgeon completes tlic skin oval and dissects up the skin, fat, and fascia, for two or more inches, especially in very muscular limbs; another assistant then places his hand in tlic wound and grasps the femoral artery, while the miiscles are divided and tlie leg removed. If preferred, the skill oval may be completed and dissected up the necessary