Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 361 sterno-tliyroid muscles. In addition, however, to these signs tlie dislocated end niaj' press on tlie trachea, oesophagus, or vessels at the root of the neck, producing diflicidty in swallowing or breathing, congestion of the veins of the head and neck, and probably coma, from pressure on the great arteries supplying the brain ; to relieve these symptoms tlie end of the bone has been excised. Treatment.—A splint well padded, especially opposite the centre of the back, placed transversely behind the shoulders, and to which they are to be braced back by a band age j in addi- tion to this, should the patient move about, it will be necessary to use an axillary pad and a sling to support the elbow. In all cases of dislocation, the arm must be firmly fastened to the side. 3. Upwards.—A'ery rare. It is caused by indirect violence, such as would carry the shoulder downwards and inwards. Tlie end of the bone passes upwards and inwards behind the sternal head of the sterno-mastoid, which has thus an arched outline; the end of the bone lies between the sterno-mastoid and sterno-hyoid muscles in front of the trachea and oesophagus, which are com- pressed when tlie patient sits up or leans forwards. The distance between the clavicle and the first rib is increased. The capsular ligament, the sternal attachment of the inter-articular fibro- cartilage and the rhomboid ligament are all ruptured (Smith). Treatment.—D raw the shoulders outwards and upwards and press tlie head of the bone into place; then put up as in forward dislocation. DISLOCATIONS OF THE OUTER END. Acromio-Clavicular Articulation. — 67«.svs, Diarthrosis; Suh- ckiss, Arthrodia. Ligaments—(1) The superior acromio-clavicular; (2) inferior acromio-clavicular; {:]) coraco-clavicular (conoid and trapezoid). Conoid, posterior or internal part; broad above and narrow below, passing from the ])osterioi- and inner ])art of the root of tlie coracoid process, backwards and upM'ards to the conoid tubercle of clavicle. Trapezoid, anterior or external part; passing backwards and upwards from the hinder half of the coracoid process, to an ol)lif[uc line extending outwards and forwards from the conoid tuljorcle. (■!) An inter-articular fibro-cartilage, more or less complete, is sometimes present. Movements.—At this