422 Applied Anatomy: point—e..7., fracture of the tibia with a wound of the calf, fracture of the pelvis with rupture of the urethra, fracture of a rib with injury of the pleura or lung; also where the fracture is associated with injury of a neighbouring nerve, artery, or joint. As regards the direction of the fracture, it may be ti-ansverse, as from direct violence ; oblique, longitudinal, or spiral, from mdirect ^dolence, as from sudden twists; comminuted, when it is broken into a number of fragments at one place. An Incomplete or Green-stick Fracture is when the bone is merely bent, with a crack extending across the convexity of the curve, similar to that produced in a green stick when it is bent across the knee. It usually occurs in children, and especially in the fore-arm and clavicle, and, in many cases at least, the periosteum is not torn ; the bone is bent, but there is neither mobility nor crepitus. It must be distinguished from the curve of a rickety bone, which, however, is a chronic thing, not produced suddenly, is symmetrical, and not accompanied with marked pain. It is possible,' of course, to get a green-stick fracture in a rickety child. An Impacted Fracture is where one fragment is wedged into the other, the compact tissue being driven into the canceUous; in this condition there is an alteration in contour and length, but neither mobility nor crepitus. It is usually met with at the lower end of the radius (Colles's), and at the upper end of the femur. It is distinguished from green-stick fracture by the age of the patient and the fact that the fractured point is angled, and not a rounded curve. A Multiple Fracture is where there are two or more fractures, either in different bones or in different parts of the same bone, as at the lower end of the humerus and femuis or both wrists (double Colles). A Diastasis is the separation of an epiphysis : it is met with in persons under sixteen or twenty years o?age, and, of course, occurs at the ends of bones near the joints and is often difficult to diagnose. It is usuaUy seen at the lower end of the radius or femur, and at both ends of the humerus. This is usually followed by a certain amount of shortening of the hmb, as the life history of the epiphysis is suddenly hurried on to com- pletion; it does not entirely stop growing at this end, however, as the-attachment of the epiphysis to the shaft may be left undisturbed^ In cases where there are two bones, the after effects are we 1 marked after separation of the radial epiphysis the hand tends to grow