Surgical, Medical, and Opdrativc. 273 plaufcaris, {i) tlie flexor loiigus digitoruin, (./) the flexor longiis hallucis, and (/,:) the tibialis posticus. 3. Vessels—(«) The loii-'- saphenous vein, (J) the short saphenous vein, {c) the anterior tibial vessels, lying on the interosseous membrane; {d) the posterior tibial vessels, lying on the tibialis posticus; and (e) the peroneal vessels (about the midcUe of the leg these will be found in the substance ot the flexor longus hallucis, higher up they will be found lyinc. on the tibialis posticus). \. Nerves-(fO The short saphenous or the branches going to form it,, (h) the anterior tibial nerve, (r) the posterior tibial nerve, and {d) the peroneal or niusculo-cutaneous nerve. .5. The tibia and fibula. 6. The interosseous membrane. THE KNEE JOINT. Amputation at the Knee Joint Proper (leaving the Condyles). —This IS an amputation but rarely performed, although of recent years it seems to be reviving, being specially advocated by ^Ir i^RTANT. The difficulty is to get sufficient covering, on account of the large sue of the lower end of the femur. In the case (1) of 0,.easc of the .joint tliere can be no doubt that the amputations 01 Garden or aiiiXTi are immensely superior to amputation at the <ncc joint, for the proper performance of which it is necessary that the articular surfaces of the cond.yles and patella should be liealthy iMany Surgeons, however, operate thus-even in disease of the jomt-aml after disarticulation is completed, use a fine-bladcd LuTCfiEus saw and cut round the end of the bone, thus removincr the diseased surface without shortening tlie stump or lessenin" Its bi;eadth. An objection to this proceeding is that the cancelli may be opened up and predispose to osteo-phlebitis and pytemia I^or this reason, when the cartilages are healthy they should be left undisturbed on both femur and patella; and the cartilage, If removed from the one, slioul.l also be removed from the other. the case (:^) of mjnru, ^vhen the integuments are uninjured or ,n,:e inches below the patella (the length of the anterior Map n amjnitation by the long anterior skin flap-the best method , It IS better to an.putate by tlie "modified circular" at the old seat lint T;;, 1 ''''''''''' l"'''^''^'^'^^^ ''^ '-"^^ «f malignant lee 0 the head of the tibia, provided the femur and knee joint aic lioalthy, and ,n gun-shot wound of the same bone.