307 Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. aiiijiutution at tlio Ulioulder; at tlic Etbuir, tlic daugcr is iicaiJy ec^ual; but the probability of saving a useful ariu and hand throws the weight ou the side of excision. So also at the Wrist, excision is to bo preferred to amputation. At the Hip, excision is veiy much safer. At the Knae, excision Avas formerly more dangerous than amputation, but thorough drainage Avith the present anti- septic methods of treating Abounds have done much to lessen the mortality. At the Aiik/c., amputation (Syme's) is a less severe operation, and will probably give the most satisfactory result in every way. Hence, excision of the ankle is but rarely performed, except, of course, in cases of injury, where the broken fragments may be removed, the joint rendered thoroughly aseptic, and the rest left to ^"ature. In the njtper extremity, therefore, usually excises-using every possible endeavour to preserve a movable elbow, wL-ist, and tliumb; in the hip, wait—or, if that is not advisable, excision is immensely ju'eferable to amputation. But sometimes amputation is necessary in the case of prolonged and exhausting disease to give the patient a chance for his life, and the present improved method of amputating the hip joint has robbed that operation of many of its former most serious risks. 3. As rc(janh tltr l)isca><p.—Excision should never be performed for malignant disease, nor in advanced cases of gelatinous degene- ration, with abscesses round the joint, and pus burrowing up and down the limb. It should not be done, either, in tlie acuU stages of the disease; in such a case, ratlier trust to a free incision with antiseptic precautions and drainage. It is cliiefiy indicated in di.sease of tlie cartilage, ;ind limited disease of the bone. "The most appropriate cases for excision of joints are those of chronic di.sease of all the tissues (/r/uVc sirclliiKj), in which the bones ai'o proI)ably not aHectcd to any great depth" (Hoi.mks). It has been occasionally performed for chronic iheumatic artliritis; but in tliis disease, to say the least, it is not a nerrssari/ operation in the sense of saving life, and it should not therefore be pressed upon tliu patient, and besides it is rare to find a single joint atlected Willi this disease. It is also performed Ibr cario-necrosis of tlie articular ends of bones, lait tiiu hjuse part ma,y simjily be removed aiul tile joint left to aiikyluse—except in the case of the elbow, wlieic ankylusi.s is objectionable. Jn dilliiso caries of tlic hip