Applied Anatomy: 90 upwards and sliglitly outwards, passing between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process, lying a little to the front of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, very nearly corresponding to a line drawn from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage, slightly arched forwards. Relations.—In the first part of its course the vessel lies in the carotid triangle, and is quite superficial, being merely covered hy— (1) Skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) platysma, with branches of the superficial cervical, great auricular, and infra-maxillary branches of the facial nerve; (4) deep fascia; (6) lingual and facial veins, and may be slightly overlapped by the sterno-mastoid. In the second part of its course it is deeper, being covered by (6) the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and (7) crossed by the ninth nerve. In the third part it is still deeper, for it passes beneath the deep surface of, and enters (8) the jjarotid gland, and under the structures in its substance. Behind the vessel we have— (1) The superior laryngeal nerve with its external branch, and the structures which separate the external from the internal carotids, viz., (2) stylo-pharyngeus and (3) stylo-glossus muscles; (4) styloid process, if long (if short, we will have the stylo-hyoid ligament); (5) glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and (6) pharyngeal branch of vagus. Note the nerves in relation with this vessel—(1) The hypo-glossal crosses it near its beginning; (2) the facial crosses it at the upper part; (3) the superior laryngeal with its external laryngeal branch are beneath its lower part; while (4) the glosso-pharyngeal lies beneath its upper part. It may be ligatured as it lies in the carotid triangle, but its branches are so numerous that its ligature is apt to be followed by secondary haemorrhage. The best point for the application of the ligature is between the origins of the superior thyroid and lingual arteries. The patient is to be placed in the same position as in ligature of the common carotid and the Surgeon stands on the same side as the vessel to be tied. At this part of its course it is covered by a large plexus of veins, formed by the lingual, facial, and pharyngeal veins, with communications from the superior thyroid and external jugular. The incision used in ligature of the internal carotid will also do for ligature of this vessel, or the incision may be half-an-inch nearer the middle line of the neck, and should