7 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. case of a cyst of the thyroid, situated over the comnion carotid, simulating au anuerism, by asking tlie patient to swallow, the thyroid cyst will he seen to rise and fall with the thyroid gland during deglutition, whereas an aneurism is stationary. (4) Pulsatile Tumours of Bone:— Aneurism. Situated in the course of some large artery, and sharply defined. Pulsation felt as a wave passing through the swelling. 3. When the main artery is com- pressed above the tumoni', and the compression removed, the sac fills out again with two or three strong bounding beats, showing the filling of a cavity. 4. When the artery below the tumour is compressed, the tension in the aneurism is increased. 5. Aneurismal tumours are movable laterally, but not in the Una of the artery. 6. When the artery above is conj- presscd, the swelling may be partially or wholly reduced liy pressure, or collapse spontane- ously. 7. Bruit well marked. 8. State of neighbouiing bone—an aneurism eats througli the bone, and one may feel the edges of the hole. Pulsatile Tumour. 1. May not be so. Not so well defined, and is soft, spongy and elastic. 2. Pulsation simultaneous at every part, though sometimes only felt at spots here and there, where large arteries enter. 3. When so treated, the pulsation at once returns over the whole tumour, as it is onlj^ due to the momment of blood in tubes, not to the filling of a cavity. 4. Is quite unaffected by sucli pressure. 5. Are immovable, as they grow from bone. There will probably be signs of malignant growth else- where, e.g., in the kidney, giving rise to hsematuria, and in the liver, causing irregular nodular enlargement. 6. When the artery above is com- manded, it neither collapses nor is it compressildo to any great extent. 7. Bruit less marked or wanting. 8. A pulsatile tumour growing from a bone usually expands it, so that onc! may lie able to feel a thin shell of bone covering the tumour, and elicit "egg-shell (U-ackling" by gentle pressure.