240 Applied Anatomy: digital vessels and nerves, and ligaments of the joints. The following muscles are divided in amputation of tlie Great Toe :— At second phalanx, two muscles—(1) Extensor proprius liallucis, and (2) flexor longus liallucis. At first phalanx, the above two muscles and in addition other five—(1) Abductor hallucis, (2) flexor brevis hallucis, (3) adductor hallucis, (4) transversus pedis, and (5) extensor brevis digitorum. At tarso-metatarsal articulation, the above seven muscles and other three—(1) The tibiahs anticus, (2) peroneus longus, and (3) the flrst dorsal interosseous. So m amputation through the second phalanx, two muscles are divided; through the first phalanx, seven muscles; and both phalanges with °the metatarsal, ten muscles. The Arteries divided are— (1) Dorsalis hallucis, and (2) the trunk or branches of the arter.a macrna hallucis. The Arteries to be avoided are—(1) The branch of the dorsalis pedis, and (2) the plantar communicating arch. In amputation of the Little TOB with its metatarsal bone, the foUowincr fourteen muscles are divided-.-Into the metatarsal bone, sb: muscles-(l) The peroneus brevis, (2) peroneus tertius, (3) flexor brevis minimi digiti, (4) transversus pedis, (o) iourth dorsal interosseous, and (6) third plantar interosseous. _ Into the first phalanx, fonr muscles-(1) The abductor minimi d.giti (2) flexor brevis minimi digiti, (3) third plantar interosseous and 4 fourth lumbricaHs. Into the second phalanx, tioo muscles- 1 The extensor longus digitorum, and (2) flexor brevis digitorum. Into the third phalanx, tm muscles-(1) The extensor longus digitorum, and (2) the flexor longus digitorum. TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATION. Amputation of the Foot at the Tarso-Metatarsal Articulation ^see 40).-This is commonly called " Hey's amputation. Disarticulation of the metatarsus is performed as far as the internal cuneiform bone, and then the projecting part of that bone sawn off (H)-but not with a " Key's " saw, as the facetious examiner sometimes leads the unsuspecting candidate to believe and state The disarticulation requires to be accomplished ^nth care, as he end of the second metatarsal bone, in its articulation with the niiddle cuneiform, prefects backwards between ^^^^^^^ internal cuneiforms. Lib.RANc's modification of this opeiation