221 Siffgica/, Medical, and Opera live. kuile, Jti.st I'oiiud Llic under segment of tlic bone and tlien round ilie upper, ;ind the Siiw applied. In cleiuin,^ t]ie bone, be carel'ul to cut the musculo-spiral nerve cleanly, as it lies in its groove on the posterior surface of the humerus; after the periosteum is divided be careful not to pull back the flaps, lest the periosteum be stripped oft' the bone. The large nerve trunks should be shortened with the scissors, and tlie artery, if cut obliquely, may be recut transversely. The vessels requiring ligature are—1. The brachial artery, accompanied by the median nerve. 2. The inferior profunda accompanying the ulnar nerve. .3. The superior profunda accom- panying the musculo - spiral nerve. Some operators make the anterior flap longer than the posterior. This, no doubt, has several advantages, but they are purchased at the expense of a shorter stump, and, therefore, it should not be performed. It is j^robably better to raise the anterior flap by dissection, excluding the brachial artery, and then make the posterior by transfixion, at the same time supporting the posterior mass of muscles lightly with the left hand. 2. Circular Method.—This may be used in most cases, and is a very suitable method for the louver third of the upper arm, as the bone is so equally covered by muscles on all sides. The arm is held at right angles to the trunk, as usual, and the skin should be well drawn up during the first incision. This may either be entrusted to an assistant, while the operator stands so that he can liold the part to be removed, or the operator himself may so stand tliat his left hand grasps the arm above the incision and draws up the skin at the same time. The operator now places his right foot well forward, bends both knees, and places his hand and wrist, with tlie knife, well round the arm, and then traverses the Avliole cu'cumference of the arm at one sweep, the assistant who Ikir charge of the arm rotating it, so as to meet the heel of the knife. Th(; tube of skin, fat, and fascia is then retracted by the assistant, aided by a few touches of tlie knife, though the subcutaneous tissue IS so loose in this situation that it may be retracted suflicicntly ^',y tiic hand alone. The muscles and fascia arc tlieu divided by iuiothcr circular sweep of the knife at the level of the retracted skii'i, tlio knife being held oldiquely so aa to cut tlic muscles in tlie form 'jf 11 hollinv cone, au.i the bone cleared and sawn at a still lii'dicr