Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 215 a very ragged and unmanageable surface. Hence, a better result is secured -when both are made by dissection, and, as already explained (see page 189), it is better to make tbe posterior flap about twice the length of the anterior, and to take up a little of the muscular tissue towards its base if deemed necessary: in this way the long flap is made to fold over the ends of the bones, the cicatrix is placed -well to the front and less likely to be injured; and further, it drains better, as the limb is to be pronated during the healing process. 2. By the Modified Circular Method.—The different steps of this operation resemble very closely the previous one. The arm is held with the hand pronated, and two equal antero-posterior semi- lunar flaps, consisting of skin and subcutaneous fatty tissue only, are made. The dorsal one is first raised with the same precautions as in the last operation to secure a good, broad base to the flap. A similar flap is next raised from the front; this flap is marked out while the hand is held pronated, by drawing the knife under the limb; tlie hand is next supinated, and the flap dissected up. Both flaps are then retracted and the muscles divided by a circular sweep of the knife; the bones are then cleared and divided about three-quarters of an inch higher up. 3. By Teale's Method. —Take the circumference of the limb at the point of section of the bones and mark out the two flaps according to the rules already laid down (see page 185). Outline the sides of the long dorsal flap by incisions through the integument only, but at its apex carry the knife at once to the bones; this flap must consist of all the structures down to the bones and interos- seous membrane. So, likewise, for the short anterior flap. During healing the fore-arm is pronated to keep the long anterior flap more easily in position, and at the same time provide a free exit for the discharges. Tills method has no special advantage in the arm, because there is no pressure on the end of the stump, as in the lower extremity, and has the disadvantage that the bone must be divided higher up than in equal antero-posterior flaps. Teale's anqmtatioTi in this situation can readily be done by transfixion, instead of the usual plan. Mr (,'. IFeath suggests a modification of this method. In this plan the posterior flap consists only of the integumentary structures