S/irg/ai/, Medical, and Opera live. 197 along thu niidcUc of the lateral aspect of tlie second phalanx, when tlie linger is held as directed (Fig. 36, A B). The knife is then to )je carried round tlie base of the phalanx, the first and second l)halanges in the meanthne being extended, while the terminal l^halanx is still further flexed as the lateral ligaments are divided. M'hen the knife has cleared the end of the bone, the phalanx being uni],utated should be fully extended and a flap of sutlicient length cut from the pulp. Structures divided—Skin, superficial fascia, digital vessels and nerves, extensor tendon, ligaments of the joint, and tendon of tlie flexor profundus digitorum. In many cases the removal of the whole phalanx, after the manner above described, IS not called for, all that is required being simply to remove the necrosed piece of bone, the joint, as previously explained, often escapnig. In this way the periosteum may form a new phalanx, and tlie finger be comparatively little tlie worse. 2nd Method—By double Flaps (see Fig. .3.5, F).—The assistant ni this case must hold the hand supinated, the finger to be operated upon fuUy extended, and the other fingers turned into the palm or held aside in any other convenient way. The operator standino- as before, grasps the tip of the finger between his own forefinger and thumb, and, wliile keeping the last two phalanges extended, may flex it slightly at the carpo-metacarpal articulation. He then transfixes it as close to tlie bone as possible, taking care that the back of the knife is just a little way in front {i.e., nearer the tip ot the finger) of tlie crease in the skin corresponding to the joint. A flap of suHicient size is then cut, and is held out of tlie way by the assistant. The phalanx is next to be over-extended, the joint opened, the knife passed through between the bones, and a small nap cut from the dorsal aspect. Provided he makes the palmar flap of sufficient length, the operator need not make a dorsal flap at all. ^ 3rd Method.-By Circular Inci.sion.-T]ii8 plan may be adopted When there is not enough sound matciial left to form flaps. Tlie finger may be conveniently held as in the first method, only it irnmt be kept extended. The operator standing as before, m^kes a circular incision about half-an-inch nearer the tip of the finger than the .,oint. The structures are then to bo reflected to the level U.e articulation, the ligaments divided, and the bono removed