528 Applied Anatomy: front of the patient's eye, and dii'ects him to move his eye sharply and freely from side to side, and up and down, and then quickly to fix it so that the disc will he opposite the pupil, when the floating particles will he seen passing across the optic disc, like figures in a magic lantern, as they continue to move through the vitreous from their inertia, after the eye has come to rest. In this way, too, they are distmguished from opacities in the cornea and lens, or pigment spots on the fundus, which come at once to rest when the eye stops. Anatomically, the Refracting Media of the eye are—(1) The Cornea. (2) Tlie Aqueous Humour, which fills the space hetween the cornea in front, and the lens Avith its suspensory ligament hehind; this space is partially suhdivided into two hy the iris— the anterior and posterior chambers of anatomists. It should be noted, however, that oculists call the whole cavity the anterior chamber—their posterior chamber heuig the cavity containing the vitreous humour. In infants, the anterior chamber is very shallow, the lens being close behind the cornea; this probably explains the occurrence of anterior polar or pyramidal cataract, which is caused by a localised inflammation of the lens capsule and the layers immediately below it, and is usually the result of ophthalmia neonatorum, which has probably caused a central perforating ulcer of the cornea. (3) Tlie Lens with its Capsule, which are held m position by the suspensory ligament. (4) Tlie Vitreous Humour with its Hyaloid Membrane. Physiologically, however, refraction only takes place at three surfaces—the anterior surface of the cornea, the anterior surface of the lens, and the posterior surface of the lens. The eyeball hes in the orbital cavity, and is surrounded by much finely granular fat, which forms a soft elastic packing for it. Coursing through this fat are many arteries and veins, going to and returning from the globe, and it occasionally happens that we find here some one of the many forms of aneurism. The conditions giving rise to "orbital aneurism" are very numerous and of a most varied character, and extremely difficult to diagnose with certainty; and sometimes, even at the post- mortem, nothing abnormal is found to account for the symptoms during life.