Applied Anatomy: 4 elbow, resulting in the simultaneous wounding of the brachial artery and the median basilic vein; it is but rarely seen now-a-days, since this operation is not often performed, and only by Surgeons. Any punctured wound, however, may cause it, e.fy. from small shot, or a spicule of bone in comminuted fracture. In both forms there is a pulsatile dilatation of the veins, with a well marked thrill and a loud continuous murmur, increased iu intensity at each cardiac systole, like the " IruU de diahle" over the internal jugular vein in ancemia, and which has been likened to "the noise made by a blue-bottle fly confined in a thin paper bag;" the murmur is conducted with greatest intensity along the veins, and, therefore, towards the heart, and not from it, as in ordinary aneurism. The chief points of distinction between the two varieties are, that ni varicose aneurism there is a more or less distinct tumour in addi- tion to the other symptoms, and probably a double murmur—one, continuous and accompanied with a thrill, such as is always found when an artery and vein communicate; the other, systohc m time, like that usually found in aneurism. A Cirsoid Aneurism is produced by the simultaneous elongation and dilatation of arteries, with thinning of all their coats; but especially of the middle, so that, in structure, they come to resemble veins. It forms an ill-defined compressible swelling, with expansile pulsation, and a soft systoHc bruit (with sometimes a diastolic as well) heard with equal intensity at every part of its surface; on palpation, it is felt to consist of tortuous and sacculated tubes. The arteries most frequently affected are those of the scalp, hands, orbit, and iliac fossa. a- i. ^ In Aneurism by Anastomosis both arteries and veins are aHected. The blood is not contained in vessels, properly speaking, but m large spaces or pools into which arteries empty themselves, and from which veins take their origin; the whole resembling very closely the condition found in cavernous tissues, or in the maternal part of the placenta. There is a well-marlced thrill, and loud continuous bruit like that found in arterio-venous aneurism; pulsation is only found at spots here and there-the points Avhere the feeding arteries '""^Causes of Aneurism.-Anything that destroys the balance between the expansive force of the circulation and the reaction