Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 411 sliortening of the leg, but very little eversion of the foot. The internal malleolus is further down and more prominent than it should be; the external malleolus goes ujd with the astragalus, and is also prominent but too high. The whole foot has a tendency to be rotated outwards. 2. Inwards.—This is caused by violence, the reverse of that which produced the previous dislocation. It is much rarer, however, as the powerful internal malleolus resists the twist and very frequently, therefore, the only result is a "sprained" ankle. Should this dislocation occur, the tibia, and sometimes the fibula as well, is broken from the sudden wrench given to the strong external lateral ligament, which, rather than give ^yay itself, often snaps the fibula, the broken ends of which in this case are displaced outwards. It is always incomplete, and the astragalus rotates on its antero-posterior axis. The sole of the foot is in- verted, and the external malleolus is very prominent and almost touches the ground, and there is a depression on the opposite side of the anlile. 3. Backwards.—It is caused by jumping from a carriage in motion, or falling backwards while the foot is fixed; the foot being fixed the inertia of the body carries the leg bones forwards. It may be complete or incomplete; if complete, the anterior and posterior ligaments are torn, and the lower end of the tibia rests on the neck of the astragalus and scaphoid, with the trochlear surface of the astragalus behind it. The whole foot is fixed, and the anterior part seems too short, and the heel too long with a depression above it; the tendo achillis is tense, and the toes are pointed downwards. The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are prominent in front; but the fibula is broken about the same place as in Pott's fracture, and the internal malleolus is also very frequently broken. 4. Forwards. —Less common tlian the last. It is usually incomplete, the tibia resting on some part of tlie articular surface of the astragalus, and not entirely behind that bone. The foot is elongated, and the heel shortened and less prominent. The space in front of the tendo achillis is occupied by a hard mass—the ends of the til)ia and fibula; botli tlie malleoli arc usually broken. The tendo achillis is lax, and not so prominent as usual.