189 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. of Mackenzie's aniputatiou at the ankle joint, however, this rule doeti not hold, as we must go down to the bone at once and take muscles and all at the very apex of the flap for the sake of pre- serving the posterior tibial and plantar arteries. The total flap length should be equal to a diameter and a half of the limb at the point where the bone is sawn, the posterior flap being about one- half the length of the anterior, and both flaps should be almost square, the anterior sinqjly having its corners rounded slightly. The breadtli of the anterior flap should always be fully one-half the diameter of the limb. In regard to the diameter and circum- ference of limbs, it should be remembered that the diameter is rather less than one-third the circumference (D C h-3-141G). Of course, theoretically, flap length equal to one diameter of the limb ought to cover the bone; but on account of elasticity and consequent shrinking of the skin, and the contraction of the muscles, one must, at least, provide another half diameter, and in some cases even another Avhole diameter. In the method above advocated, supposing the limb to be eighteen inches in circum- ference at the point where the bone is to be divided, we may either make an anterior flap six inches long, and a posterior three inches, and divide the bone at the bases of the flaps; or else make the anterior flap four and a half inches long, and the posterior two and a half inches, and then retract the muscles and clear the bone one to two inches above the bases of the flaps, and there divide it. In the Upper Extremity the best method of amputation is by tlie " modified circular," or else equal anterior and posterior flaps made by dissection, the total flap length being equal to a diameter and a half of the limb at the point where the bone is divided. SPECIAL POINTS IN REFERENCE TO AMPUTATION. Whatever method may be adopted, the following objects must be clearly kept in mind:— 1. Use every possible endeavour to save the patient's life, and give him the most useful limb—or stump rather—afterwards. Mere "brilliancy" is not to be thought of in amputating; it is probably one of the worst (lualiflcations a Surgeon could well have. A living brother-man is at your mercy, wlio jiroliably has his bread to win, and not oidy that, but pcrliaps also is tlie sole