37 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. There is a peculiar harsh, brassy cough, like the cry of a gander, but no expectoration, unless there is ulceration present, when there will probably also be hajmoptysis; the respiratory murmur will be feeble in both lungs. If only one bronchus is pressed upon, the symptoms will be somewhat similar but confined to one side; there is also very frequently a harsh snoring or wheezing heard over the part pressed on, from the alteration produced in the size of the tube. There are no crepitations, nor is the vocal resonance increased, and therefore it differs from pneumonia. When the Pulmonarii Artery is pressed on, the symptoms resemble those of asthma.^ From this, however, it may be distinguished by the fact that it is bad day and night, that atmospheric conditions do not specially affect it, and that it is relieved by the patient assuming a certain position. •5. Nerves.—When nerves are affected we must distinguish two stages—(«) A stage of irritation, motor or sensory; and (6) the stage 0^ paralysis. In sensory nerves there is at first severe shoot- ing pains, spreading in various directions along the nerve and its communications; this may be followed by complete or partial anesthesia. In motor nerves we first have spasmodic contraction of the muscles they supply, followed, sooner or later, by paralysis. As examples of the above, we have pressure on the cardiac nerves producmg severe anginous pains; thei^hrenic, first irritated, causing hiccough, later paralysed; recurrent laryngeal, causing alteration of voice and dyspnoea from spasm of the muscles of the larynx during the stage of irritation, later aphonia from paralysis of the same muscles; on the vayus, causing severe anginous pains, irre-ular action of the heart, nausea and retching, asthmatic dyspnoea, and probably infiammation of the lungs; the sympathetic, during the stage of irritation causing dilatation of the pupil, with pallor and coldness of that si.le of the head and face, from vaso-motor stimu- iation, but later, when the nerve is paralysed, contraction of the rmpil, with redness and increased heat of that side of the head and face, from vaso-motor paralysis. It may perhaps b(-, as well at this stage, to point out that it is only in cases of dysjmavi IVom spasm of the muscles of the larynx, that tracheotomy is follo^^'ed Jjy any benefit; if it arises from pressure on the tracliea or bronchi by the aneurism, it is of no use. To diagnose the two conditions