540 Surgical, Medical, and Operative, of the iris ; (6) a curette or scooi^; (7) a cystotomc or pricker, to lacerate the capsule of the lens; and (8) a special scoop, to lift out the lens if necessary, as in a diseased eye, where jDressure might be dangerous, or where the vitreous humour is very fluid or is beginning to escape at the corneal wound. The patient reclines on a table or couch with a support behind his head; the Surgeon stands most conveniently behind the patient's head, and should be ambidextrous, as it is more convenient to use the. right hand for the right eye in making incisions, etc., and the left for the left eye. An assistant takes his stand on the patient's left side, opposite the Surgeon. The steps of the operation are four—(1) The incision, (2) the removal of a part of the iris, (3) the laceration of the lens capsule, and (4) the expulsion of the lens. The eye is rendered insensible to pain by means of a solution of cocaine, dropped in occasionally for ten minutes before the opera- tion; it is then washed with a M^eak solution of corrosive sublimate (1 in .5000), and the spring speculum introduced and set. The Surgeon then fixes the eye by pinching up the conjunctiva close to the lower edge of the cornea. The knife is then introduced through the cornea and sclerotic junction, about half a line beyond the apparent edge of the cornea, and about a line and a half above its middle; the knife must be introduced perpendicularly till it has gone through into the anterior chamber, and then the plane of the knife must be made to correspond to the surface of the iris. It is then passed through a counter puncture, the edge turned upwards and forwards, and the knife made to cut its way out by slight sawing movements; the point of exit is just beyond the apparent edge of the cornea. The iris foi'ceps is then introduced, the iris drawn out, and a little bit snipped off with the scissors. The pricker is next introduced, and the capsule lacerated in a crucial manner, beginning at the lower part. The scoop is now to be pressed against the lower edge of the cornea, when the lens will usually be extruded. The anterior chamber is then to be emptied of blood and lens matter, and the edges of the wound placed closely in apposition, taking care that neither lens matter nor any part of the iris is between its lips. A solution of eserinc is then introduced to draAv the iris away from the wounded region, the eye douched M'ith