Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 387 and upper aspects. This reflexion is not necessarily ruptured in intra-capsular fracture, and conveys blood across the fractured point, and by this means will tend to a certain extent to aid the union of the broken parts. The Movements at the Hip Joint.—Flexors.—These muscles flex the thigh on the trunk, or the trunk on the femur. Direct flexors (/.£■., those that pass from the trunk over one joint only) —(1) The psoas, (2) iliacus, and (3) pectineus. Indirect flexors {i.e., muscles passing over two joints, and only acting secondarily on the hip joint—(1) The rectus, and (2) sartorius. Extensors.— Direct—The three glutei muscles. It should be observed that in the extension movements required at the hip joint in ordinary walking the gluteus maximus is not used; it only comes into play when greater energy is required. Bidirect—The three hamstrings (biceps, semi-tendiuosus, and semi-membranosus). Abductors.— (1) The gluteus medius, (2) gluteus minimus, (3) tensor fascias femoris, and (4) sartorius. Adductors.—(1) The three adductors, (2) gracilis, (3) pectineus, (4) quadratus femoris, and (5) obturator externus. External Rotators.—(1) Gluteus maximus, (2) gluteus medius (posterior part), (3) pyriformis, (4) obturator internus and the two geraelli, (5) quadratus femoris, (6) obturator externus, and psoas and iliacus. Internal Rotators.—(1) Gluteus minimus, (2) gluteus medius (anterior part), and (3) tensor fasciaa femoris. It will be noticed that the external rotators are much more numerous and powerful than the internal, so that the foot naturally tends to fall outwards when one assumes the supine position. Muscles in direct contact with the Capsule of the Hip Joint. —In Fro7it—The psoas and the iliacus. Above—(1) The rectus (reflected tendon), and (2) tlie gluteus minimus. On its inner side—(1) The pectineus, and (2) the obturator externus. Behind it—(1) The pyriformis, (2) the obturator internus and the two gemelli, (3) part of the gluteus miuimus, (4) the obturator externus, and (5) the quadratus femoris. The range of motion of the joint in its various directions is limited, in a general way, as follows:—E.dension, by the anterior fibres of the capsule and ilio-femoral band; Flexion, by the contact of the neck of the femur with the acetabulum and soft parts of