245 Surgical, ATedical, and Opcratnie. thumb over the end of tlie disarticulated bones and dissects oil' a flap, consisting of the whole thickness of the tissues of the sole, and carries the dissection as far as the roots of the toes. From the layer of tissues thus dissected up, the operator shapes a neatly- rounded flap, longer on the inner than on the outer side, by transfixing the centre and cutting towards each side, and so sloping the knife that the integumentary structures are cut longer than the muscles. EESUME of LisFRANc's nietliod :— 1. Toot extended, and the bony guides felt by index finger and thumb. 2. Outline the dorsal flap, beginning and ending half-an- inch in front of the bony guides; and divide the tendons by a second cut near the base of the skin flap, so that they may not project beyond the skin. 3. ]\rake the plantar flap by carrying two lateral incisions along the sides of the foot, and join by a curved incision in front across the sole, but obliquely, so that the flap is longer on the inner side. 4. Assistant then holds foot at right angles while this flap is being raised. 5. Then disarticulate, remembering the mortise into which the second metatarsal juts. Instead of this method, the Avhole operation may be done as described in the n'suml- of Chopart. On the living body, Mr Spence always performed Hev's method, as it was easier and left a better stumj). By the second method the plantar flap is cut first. A straight nicision is carried from the two bony guides along each side of the foot, reaching nearly to the roots of the toes and the inner one longer than the outer; the two lines are then united in front by a gently curved incision, thus marking out a flap with Avell rounded angles. The flap is tlien raised, and at lirst should consist only of integumentary and fascial structures, but after the first inch, may include everything down to tlic l)ones. A dorsal flap is next to be made as in the previous method, the joints opened, and the bones disarticulated.