Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 491 tliiit, opposed to the usual custom, the lower epiphysis of the fibula appears first and unites first. The tibia grows in length chiefly from the upper epiphysis. This epiphysis includes the facet for the fibula on the outer side, and the groove for the semi-mem- branosus on the outer side; in front it slopes down obliquely so as to include the whole of the " tubercle " of the tibia, the insertion of the ligamentum patellfe (Fig. 102). The lower epiphysis of the tibia has no muscles attached to it, but includes the inner malleolus and the facet for the fibula. The fibula is surrounded by a thick pad of muscles for the greater part of its extent, which thus gives an otherwise weak bone great support; its lower fourth, however, is subcutaneous. The anterior border and inner surface of the tibia are entirely sub- cutaneous, hence any irregularity in outline can be readily detected, and for the same reason the fracture is more often compound and comminuted than any other bone; it becomes compound in two ways—either from the force tljat breaks the bone in direct violence, or else from a sharp fragment being forced through the skin in Indired violence. Each of the bones may be broken separately, but usually both are broken together. If the tibia alone be broken, or if the fibula alone be broken, there is usually little displacement, because the sound bone acts as a splint to the fractured one, and especially if the fracture be transverse. The weakest part of the shaft of the tibia is about its lower third, and the weakest part of the shaft of the fibula is about its upper fourth, and at these points, therefore, the bones usually give way in fracture from indirect violence; the fracture, further, is usually oblique from behind, downwards, forwards, and a little inwards. In direct violence the fracture will be transverse and at the point struck. In tramverse fractures of one bone there will be little displacement, muscular action simply keeping the fractured ends in apposition; if, however, the fracture be oblique and both bones broken, the lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards by the muscles of the calf (gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus), and this is more marked if the fracture be situated at the lower part of the shafts of the tibia and fibula (Fig. 106), and rotated outwards by the weight of the foot; while the upper fragment is tilted forwards by the tcudo pat>'ll»: {ihG tendon of insertion of the quadriceps extensor