Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 493 crack, and the fact that firm iiulirect pressure on the bone above and below this point will probably produce a yielding and crepitus, and certainly cause pain at the seat of the fracture, should prevent any mistake in the diagnosis. Fibula Alone.—This bone may be broken either by direct or indirect violence. The usual seat is from two to five inches above the malleolus, especially if caused by indirect violence. It may be caused by a twist of the foot, either outwards or inwards, and is then very often associated with partial or complete dislocation of the ankle joint; but in that due to inversion of the foot there is often no displacement at all. If due to eversion, the broken ends of the fibula are driven inwards towards the tibia (see "Disloca- tions of the Ankle—Pott's Fracture"). There is also a fracture of the fibula occasionally met with, through or just above the malleolus, caused by direct violence, where there is also an absence of displacement. Here again, in diagnosing such fractures, the great guides must be the existence of a tender spot, sharply defined (difiering therefore from a bruise or sprain, though both may be present), and the indirect method of pressure applied to the upper part of the fibula, pressing it toAvards the tibia, when pain wiU be caused at the fractured spot. If it be merely a bruise, there will be no pain as thus tested. The only source of fallacy in this test is the possibility that the lower tibio-fibular articulation be inflamed, and when pressure is made upon the upper part of the fibula, the pain might be due to squeezing the inflamed articulation, and not to a fracture. Both Bones.—This fracture may be caused by direct violence, as kicks, blows, wlieels passing over the limb, etc., when the bones give Avayat the point struck; or indirect violence, such as jumping from a height, severe twists, etc., when the bones yield at their w°eakest parts. Tlie limb is usually everted from the weiglit of the limb, from the force breaking the bones, and probably also from musculai' action. Both bones of the leg require about eight weeks to unite firmly; the tibia alone requires seven, and the fibula alone six. Treatment. — In cases of fracture of the shaft of a single bone, with little or no displacement, any simple apparatus will°be sufficient, such as Clink's side splints, for the first few days, till the swelling has subsided, Avhon the limb may be encased in a starched