Surgical, Medical, a7id Opei-ative. 809 and disorganised it would be useless to hoije for healing of tlie M^ound. This has especially to be considered in the case of the knee and ankle. In other cases—the elbow, for example—the incision may be made so as to include the different sinuses, even though not made in the orthodox position and direction; sometimes also the sinuses may be used as drainage apertures, after freely scraping them with a sharp spoon and brushing them with a solution of zinc chloride (20 to 40 grains to the oz.) or some other antiseptic. G. The Patient must not he too young or too old.—The most suitable age is from twenty to thirty. If too young, even though other conditions are favourable, the epiphysis might suffer, and the development of the limb be arrested to a great extent in conse- quence, as it is at this part that the development of the bone in length is mainly dependent. In reference to this, Mr Humphry has pointed out that all epiphyses are not of equal importance; he states that the upper epiphysis of the humerus and tibia, and the lower epiphysis of the femur and radius are the most important as regards the growth in length of the respective limbs. If too old, the patient's constitution is unable to bear up against the severity of the operation and the protracted convalescence. 7. The Surgeon should ha^e proper means at his disposal/or after treatment, and a restful, trustful, hopeful patient. VII. In Performing the Operation.—1. Make the incisions parallel with the axis of the limb, so that the cicatrix will not interfere with the movements of the joint afterwards; again, by making the incision thus, we will usually avoid dividing important structures, as blood-vessels, nerves, and tendons. At the same time the incision must be sufficiently free to expose the parts to be removed. In cases where a movable joint is the object, division of muscles and tendons must be avoided as far as possible.' 2. Remove as little of the hone as possible, consistent with the object in view. The gouge may be used to scoop out carious cavities, m preference to making a complete transverse section of the bone again. At the same time, if too little bone be removed in tlie case of the elbow joint, tlie risk of bony ankylosis is very great (Spenoe). J!nt m the case of tlio knee joint, where the object is ankylosis with the least possible amount of shortening, tlien remove as little as possible. .3. In cases where a movable joint is llic object,