Surgical, Medical, ami Operative. 125 {h) Deep Palmar Arch (see Fig. 18, This is the direct cuntinuatiou of the vadial artciy, and is completed on the uliuu' side by the pwfanda branch of the ulnar artery. It lies deeply, and, iu addition to the structures covering the superficial arch, is covered by the digital nerves and arteries, and tendons of the sujjerficial and deep flexors of the lingers and some of the muscles of the little linger and thumb. It rests on the palmar interossei and metacarpal bones near their carpal ends. Position of the Arches.—The Superficial—Extend the thumb till it lies at right angles to the hand, and then di-aw a line across the palm on a level with its lower margin ; this line should touch the lowest part of the convexity of the arch. The Deep Arch lies fully a finger's breadth nearer the carpus. To expose the superficial arch in its ulnar portion, make an incision over it an inch iu length and slightly oblique, from the radial to the ulnar side, Avith its centre opposite the ring finger, and parallel Avith the palmar outhne of the ball of the thumb. Branches.—('i) From Superficial Arch are given off—(1) Four digital arteries Avhich supply the little finger, the ring finger, middle finger, and the ulnar side of the index finger. These vessels bifur- cate half-an-inch above the clefts betAveen the fingers. (2) The deep or communicating branch; (3) recurrent branches Avhich pass ui)\vards toAvards the annular ligament, {h) From the Deep Arch— (1) liecurrcnt branches Avhich ascend and anastomose Avith branches from the anterior carpal arch ; (2) superior perforating, three in number, Avhich pass backwards through the upper part of the last three interosseous spaces, to anastomose Avith the dorsal interosseous arteries; (3) the palmar interosseous arteries, three in number, Avhich lie in front of the palmar ijiterosseous muscles, and anatomose (it the clefts of the fingers, Avitli the digital branches from the superficial arch. The Anterior Carpal Arch is formed by the anterior carpals of radial and idnar; it anastomoses on the one hand Avith the anterior interosseous, and on the other Avith the deep palmar arch. Tlie Posterior Carpal Arch is formed by the posterior carpals of radial and ulnar. From this arch are given oil' drsccvdliiii branches, the dorsal interosseous arteries for the third and Iburtli interosseous spaces, which anastomose Avith the posterior perforating Wuchcs from tlie dee]) [lalmar arch ; it also gives oil' a.sccnding