Applied A natomy : 68 also lie behind it. The artery is sometimes described as lying in the lower part of a little triangle formed thus—internally it is bounded by the outer margin of the scalenus anticus, and externally by the scalenus posticus, the convergence of these two muscles forming the apex of the triangle, the base being formed by the first rib, on which the vessel rests (Spence). In the same triangle, above and behind the artery, are the cords going to form the bracliial plexus. THE OPERATION. The patient should be in the recumbent position, with his shoulders supported by pillows, his head thrown backwards and his face turned to the opposite side, while the arm of the affected side is to be depressed as much as possible so as to lessen the depth of the wound. The Surgeon stands in front of the shoulder on which he is to operate. Superficial Guide.—The vessel lies beneath the most prominent part of the clavicle, and it is important to remember that, by press- ing the thumb or a padded key firmly downwards, inwards, and backwards, towards the first rib, about half-an-inch to the inner side of the middle of the clavicle, or just outside the sterno-mastoid, the vessel may be compressed during life, and the circulation through the upper limb entu-ely commanded: it is best carried out when the arm is well drawn down. Incision.—With the inner side of the left hand, draw down the skin over the clavicle for about one inch, and cut along the hone for three or four inches, beginning over the clavicular origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid and ending at the trapezius (see Fig. 14). Ey drawing down the skin in this manner, one is less likely to cut the external jugular vein, which may be found in any part of the base of the posterior triangle, and perforates the deep fascia about half-an-inch above the clavicle, and is not, therefore, displaced downwards with the skin. This incision corresponds to the middle third of the clavicle, or base of the posterior triangle. In some cases, it may be advisable to make another incision, two inches in length, along the outer edge of tlie sterno-mastoid joining the former incision nearly at a right angle, more especially in cases where the shoulder cannot be depressed— in very fat people, or those with short thick necks. It is better, however, not to make this incision, if possible, but rather to extend