8 E. & 8. Livingstone, Publishers, Fifth Edition, price 10s. 6d. THE STUDENT'S HAND-BOOK OF Porensic ledicine and PuWic Healtli By H. AUBREY HUSBAND, M.B., CM., B.Sc, M.E.C.S., L.S.A., F.E.C.S.E., Author of the 'Student's Hand-hook of the Practice of Medicine' 'Student's Pocket Prescriber,' etc. ' The -work is an excellent epitome of tlie subjects on wHcli it treats, and contains all that the student need know to pass, or that the ordinarj practitioner will require in the course of his practice. The latter part of the work—Medical Police—is excellently done, and forms a complete and succinct guide on all subjects relating to Public Health and Hygiene. Medical OiScers of Health will find it of great value. As a trustworthy and readable guide to the study of Forensic Medicine, etc., we can strongly recommend it to both students and practitioners.'— Students'' Journal. ' It is again our pleasing duty to record the pubhcation of a new- edition of Dr Husband's concise and popular Hand-book of Forensic Medicine. The present edition has been thoroughly revised and considerably enlarged by the addition of new sections on Criminal Procedure, Somnambulism in its Legal Eelations, the Action of Poisons, etc. The information it contains is sufficient for all ordinary examinations, and we have no doubt it will still maintain its popularity as a text-b»ok among EngUsh medical students.'—Hospital Gazette. ' The arrangement of the matter is simple, concise, and accm-ate and with this book within their reach students should have no excuse for neglecting one of the most important branches of their professional education.'—Medical Press and Circular. ' It certainly appears to be a useful volume, for it has a very large amount of information compressed into an incredibly small space. In addition to all the subjects usually treated of in such works on Forensic Medicine, the section devoted to " Medical Police " will be found full of the most varied and interesting matters, culled from many different sources. First we have a chapter on Man, subject to various physical and moral infliiences; then the Individual Man is considered. Next comes a chapter on Vital Statistics and Life Assurance. Mr Husband then gives an Epitome of Hygienic matter, such as Air and Ventilation, Climate, Meteorology, Drainage, Water, Food, Dwelling-houses, Epi- demics and Contagion. Lastly, we have Abstracts of some of the chief Acts of Parliament having reference to Quarantine, and various Sanitary questions. The author of this little work has read extensively, both lu the domain of medicine proper and in the region just outside of it; and this extended knowledge, and the happy union of purely medical facts with others of more general interest, give the book an individuaUty, and certainly has the effect of maldug it very readable, in spite of the great compression of its contents.'—Lancet.