Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 127 textures. (2) The resulting cicatrix, especially in the hand of a working-man, is subjected to constant irritation, and probably Kfteen to twenty years of such irritation will result in an epithe- lioma, besides frequently being painful and showing a tendency to ulcerate in the meantime. Should this be insufficient to control the htemorrhage, it is better at once to ligature the brachial, as it is more effectual and not more difficult than the double operation of tying the radial and ulnar arteries above the wrist. As, however, in many cases the artery is only wounded, it is evident that before resorting to severe measures, one should make certain that the vessel is completely cut across. This can easily be done through the original wound, and then very likely the artery will contract and retract sufficiently to allow the blood to clot and stop further ha3morrhage. The deep palmar arch, however, may be readily ligatured from the dorsum, after excision of the upper end of the third metacarpal bone (Delorme). In the palm, the digital arteries and nerves lie on the interos- seous muscles between the metacarpal bones, and, therefore, incisions in this region should be made over these bones. The arteries arc superficial to the nerves, and they bifurcate fully half-an-inch from the clefts of the fingers, or about the level of the fold in the palm formed by the flexion of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalaugeal joints. The most internal branch, however, does not bifurcate, but runs along the ulnar side of the little finger; the other branches run along the sides of the fingers, nearer the anterior than the posterior aspect, and must be avoided should it be necessary to make incisions along the sides of the fingers. The relation between the nerves and the arteries difiers in the palm and in the fingers : in the palm the arteries are superficial to the nerves, but in the fingers they arc deeper than the nerves. RESUME of the methods to be adopted in the treatment of cases of luemorrliage from the palmar arches :— 1. Make sure that the artery is more than wotmded, see that it is completely divided; for, true to one of Nature's great laws, tlie very agencies wliich arc appointed for the conservation of the individual 1)ecomc, when per- verted, liis destruction. Hence, wlien only Avoundcd