495 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. back, and the fracture examined without slackening the rest of the dressing. By this plan the fractured point can be examined very easily without disturbing the rest of the splint, which coidd not be done were an ordinary roller bandage used; all that is required in this case is simply to undo the middle slip-knot and turn back the ends of the two towels. The limb is now to be laid on a couple of pillows, or swung, with the knee considerably bent, to relax the muscles of the calf. The fracture can be examined from time to time without disturbing the limb. The most important points to be kept in mind are—(1) To keep the foot at right angles to the leg; and (2) to guard specially against any eversion of the foot— a little inversion is not so objectionable, although this should also be avoided. Both these conditions can be readily carried out by using the "box splint." To keep the foot at right angles a figure-of-eight of elastic, or ordinary domett bandage, is passed round the foot and fastened to the sides of the box. To judge whether the foot is properly placed as regards eversion and in- version, it should be noted that when the foot is in the proper position tlie hall of the great toe, the internal malleolus, and the ■inner edge of the patella, are all in one vertical plane, and the patella loolcing directly upwards. Even in health, however, there IS a slight tendency to inversion of the foot. In methods of treating these fractures, where the knee joint is flexed and the leg laid on Its outer side on a pillow, it is impossible to judge of the eversion and inversion ; hence the usual result is that the patient rises with the foot very much everted, the toes probably pointed, and consequently a crippled and useless foot—a condition not only bad at the time, but one likely to induce disagreeable secondary consequences, e.g., flat-foot, with all its aches and pains. In cases where the fracture is very oblique, and accompanied with much shortening, it will be necessary to employ the weight and pulley. In cases where the fracture is low down, there may not be sufficient room to apply the extension plasters, but a short elastic sock, laced to the foot should be used, with side straps to fasten to the buckles on the square of wood to which the cord IS attached. Wo may also use two pieces of plaster cut into a number of short tails, to grasp the dorsum of the foot, and the sides and ])ostcrior aspect of tlie heel, as shown in Fig. 107 The