Applied Anatomy: 514 some also divide tlie peroiieus longus and brevis. (3) Arteries— chiefly malleolar and calcanean twigs. (4) Ligaments—the superior calcaneo-cuboid, the internal calcaneo-cuboid, the superior calcaneo- scaphoid, the external calcaneo-astragaloid, the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint, the posterior calcaneo- astragaloid, part of the deltoid ligament, inferior calcaneo-scaphoid, the long and short calcaneo-cuhoid ligaments, and lastly, tlie strong interosseous ligament. THE ASTRAGALUS. This bone may be excised by an external incision, similar to that used in excision of the ankle joint, with, if necessary, a short straight incision over the internal malleolus, sufficient to allow division of the internal lateral ligament. Some divide the peroneus brevis and tertius, but it is better not to do so. The steps of the operation resemble closely those of excision of the ankle joint. It is important to clear the bone on all sides before separating the structures on the posterior edge—the flexor longus hallucis tendon, posterior tibial vessels, and posterior tibial nerve. The various Ligaments connecting the bone with its fellow must be divided as they present themselves:—To the bones o the leg, OS calcis, and scaphoid—(1) to the hones of the Ze;/—th anterior ligament, posterior ligament, and the lateral ligamen of the ankle joint (the middle fasciculus of the external later may be saved); (2) with the scaphoid—onQ, the superior astragalo scaphoid; and (3) with the as calcis—\hQ strong interosseous, an external and posterior calcaneo-astragaloid. THE CLAVICLE. The more important Relations of this bone are—In Front— The skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and descending branches of the supra-clavicular nerves—the sternal, clavicular, and acromial, from the third and fourth cervical,—the deep foscia, and communi- • cation from the cephalic to the external jugular vein. Behind— (1) Fesse/s—Subclavian vein, internal jugular vein, and probably the junction of these two to form the innominate vein; external jugular vein, internal mammary artery, and supra-scapular artery and vein; the subclavian artery, common carotid artery, and partly