*170 Applied Anatomy: the artery. An incision, six or seven inches long, is made in tlic mesial line of the leg, in the course of the vessel, beginning about t\vo inches below the middle of the popliteal space, and dividing the skin and fascia. The external or short saphenous vein is then separated and held aside, and the sei)tum between the two heads of the gastrocnemius is divided to the same extent as the superficial incision, and the two heads separated. The muscular fi.bres of tlie soleus are next cut through, and its deep tendon opened as in the last operation; and then the aponeurotic arch covering the vessels is divided, Avhen the posterior tibial nerve will come mto vicAV, with the posterior tibial artery and its vente comites to its inntr side. The artery is then cleared, and the ligature passed from the nerve. 2. Ligature of tiie Vessel at the Inner Ankle.—Here the artery is quite superficial, and its pulsations may be detected during life. It lies between the tendons of the flexor lougus digitorum and the flexor longus hallucis, with a vein on either side, and the posterior tibial nerve immediately behind it (that is, nearer the heel); its exact position is at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of a line drawn from the point of the heel to the inner malleolus. The limb is to be placed in the same position as in ligature of the artery higher up by the lateral mcision; only in the later stages of the operation the foot had better be flexed and everted. The Surgeon stands as in the previous operation. Mahe a semi-lunar incision two inches long, and half-an-inch behind the internal malleolus, towards which the concavity of the incision is to be directed; the incision must not be too near the tibia lest the sheath of the tendons be opened. Cut through the skin and superficial fascia, when the specially thick deep fascia, the uiternal annular ligament, covering the vessels is brought into view and divided. The posterior tibial nerve is then seen, and the artery will be found a little nearer the tibia; separate the artery from its vense comites and ligature in the usual manner. The structures at the inner ankle all lie in an oblique plane, and unless the operator keep to the concave side of the incision he is very apt to miss the artery altogether. The artery may also be exposed in the lower third of the leg by a vertical incision midway between the internal malleolus and the tendo achillis; in this situation it will be found lying on the flexor longus digitorum.