Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 571 Sometimes there is a spot tender to pressure, or percussion over the temporo-splionoidal lobe. Further, Aveakness of the muscles of the angle of the mouth, ataxic speech, word deafness, and optic neuritis have been observed, flemiplegia coming on with signs of compression many weeks after a head injury, is said to point to cerebral abscess. Cerebral abscess may also arise from disease of the nasal cavities; it is often present in pyasmia, and not un- frequently follows injuries to the head. Diagnosis. — It is impossible to distinguish with certainty between this condition and diffuse suppurative meningitis, and thrombosis of one or other of the cerebral sinuses. In meningitis, however, there is, in the first instance at any rate, high tempera- ture and rapid pulse, intense headache, tenderness to pressure or tapping over the cerebrum, contracted pupils, and probably hemi- plegia or unilateral spasm; and in phlebitis and thrombosis of the sinuses these symptoms would be accompanied Avith signs of pysemia, such as repeated rigors, liigh temperature, profuse sour- smelling perspiration, peculiar waxy tint of the skin, peculiar odour of the breath and metastatic abscesses, as well as swelling in the course of the internal jugular vein and side of face. If the internal jugular vein be the seat of the thrombosis there will be signs of pressure on the glosso - pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory causing spasm of the sterno-mastoid, and also on the hypo-glossal nerve, together with tenderness at the side of the neck; should the thrombus be situated in the cavernous sinus there will be signs of pressure on the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, causing paralysis or spasm of the muscles supijlied, and also on the ophthalmic vein, causing suffusion of the eyes and possibly unilateral optic neuritis. In a series of cases collected by Dr M'Bride, he found that when the abscess involved the tympanum and mastoid, cerebral abscess was much more common tlian cerebellar, but that when the tympanum and labyrinth were involved, then cerebellar abscess was tlie rule. Diflusc purulent meningitis is also common, especially when the tympanum and labyrinth arc the seat of suppuration. To distinguish between thu cerelu'al and cerebellar forms is by no means easy. In the cerebellar form tliere will probably be severe occipital headaclie, vomiting and vertigo following long existent