Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 22o axilla. The two semi-lunar flaps thus marked out are next dissected up and held aside so as to expose the joint completely. These flaps should, as far as possible, be separated from the bone by the fingers alone, so as not to injure the vessels on their deep surface. The only vessel of any size divided at this stage of the operation is the posterior circumflex, and this should at once be secured by a pair of Wells's forceps. The assistant now adducts the arm in order to project and render tense the structures about the tuberosities, rotating inwards and outwards, as may be required, while the operator divides the muscles attached to the tuberosities. The operator then opens the joint, dividmg the capsular ligament by cutting on the anatomical neck of the humerus by a semi-circular or^ horse-shoe-shaped sweep of the knife, as if he intended to cut ott' the head of the bone at the anatomical neck. The assistant again abducts the arm, and puUs the head of the bone outwards from the glenoid cavity; the knife is then passed round behind it, dividing the remaining part of the capsule, the arm again adducted, and the knife carried down the inner side of the humerus close to the bone, followed by the thumbs of an assistant, who secures the axiUary vessels before the tissues are divided. The edge of the knife is now turned towards the surface, and the remaining tissues, between the end of the first and second incision, divided obliquely downwards and inwards, so as to form part of the anterior flap. The vessels requiring ligature are—(1) The axillary artery; (2) probably the axiUary vein; and (3) branches of the circumflex vessels. The principal advantages of this method are—(1) Tlie wound drains well; (2) its cut surface is as smaU as IS consistent with efficient flap covering; and (3) there is less risk of hfemorrhage, during the operation, than in some of the other methods. RESUME of the "Oval" method:— 1. Arm held abducted. Make a short vertical incision on the outer aspect of the shoulder, beginning at the acromion. 2. Carry incisions from the end of tliis short cut to the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla respectively. 3. Kelicct these flai)s as far as possible. P