475 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. it to ossify too soon, and hence the liinb becomes shorter and shorter until growth is completed. But in this case there will be no broadening of the great trochanter; the shortening does not take place at the time of the accident, but after the lapse of some weeks, and comes on gradually, the patient being probably able to walk about all the time. In any injury of the hip therefore, especially m the aged, give a guarded prognosis, and tell them the possible, and even probable result. _ Charcot's Disease.— This is a trophic lesion, depending on disease of the postero-external column (Burdach's) of the spinal cord, and is but a symptom of locomotor ataxy. In many respects It resembles chronic rheumatic arthritis; but however close the resemblance may be, there are usually two marked differences— one IS the absence of pain in the part, the other is the excessive mobility of the articulation. Charcot's Disease. 1. Very raiiid and extreme wearing away of the articular bones, often leading to spontaneous disloca- tion. Often rapid and great collection of turbid scrum, forming a large fluctuating tumour, filling up Scarpa's triangle and behind as well. bulging •3. Its onset is acute, and its course is rapid and irregular, and it may subside partially or entirely. 4. Absence of pain and stiffness of the affected joint; patient can readily move it. ;'. Peculiar .scrunch on moving the joint passively, 6. Formation of osteophytes the ex- ception. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis, 1. Chronic in its course, and the wearing away is accompanied with excessive growth of osteo- phytes round the lips of the articulation; dislocation rare. 2. This is essentially a dry disease— the cavity of the joint is usually very dry, though neighbouring bursfe may be enlarged from effusion, and sometimes the joint itself. 3. Is essentially long-continued, and steadily progressive from bad to worse. 4. Joint rigid, and there is great pain, especially at night. 5. Dry creaking or crackling crepita- tion on passive movement. 6. The rule in this affection.