Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 107 2. Expose the pectoralis major, separate the clavicular from the sternal head, beginning at the inner end of the wound, and then divide it on a director, or else use the finger and a probe-pointed bistoury. Bring the arm to the side, and 3. After this expose the upper edge of the pectoralis minor, with the finger and handle of the knife, taking care not to wound the acromio-thoracic vessels. 4. Use the branches of the acromio-thoracic artery, or the cephalic vein, as the guide to the position of the axillary. 5. Clear the vessel as near the clavicle as possible, and well above the origin of the thoracic axis. 6. Pass the needle from the inner side. Collateral Circulation (Fig. 18).—If tied above the thoracic axis it is the same as in ligature of the third part of the subclavian. If tied below the axis, in addition to the chief collateral branches mentioned under "Collateral Circulation" (see page 72) in ligature of the subclavian, we have—1. Branches from the thoracic axis (4), and superior thoracic (8), anastomosing with branches from the two circumflex arteries (9) from third part of the axillary. 2. The long thoracic (15), anastomosing Avith the aortic intercostals (18) and internal mammary (11). THE SECOND PART.—Relations.—In The pectoralis major and pectoralis minor, with skin, fascia, etc. Behind—The subscapularis and the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. Imicr side—The vein and the inner cord. Outer side—The outer cord of the plexus. The part beneath the pectoralis minor is not tied except when wounded—(1) Because it is so short and gives off two or three branches; (2) it is too deeply placed; (3) it is so closely surrounded by nerve trunks. In ligaturing the first two parts of this vessel for a wound of the main trunk or its branches, it is customary to make the incision in the line of the artery, across the fibres of the pectorals. THE THIRD PART.—This is the longest of the three parts, and extends from the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the lower border of the teres major: it is twice as long as either of the others. Position of the Arm.—The arm is abducted to a right angle AviLh