Applied Anatomy 370 rendered tense, especially the pectoralis major; both the teres major and the latissimus dorsi are relaxed. This form is caused by violence when the arm is stretched across the chest. The circmnflex nerve is often bruised or torn; and this may induce secondary degenerative changes resulting in the complete and per- manent paralysis of the muscle. Mr Holmes describes a supra-COracoid dislocation, where the bead of the bone forms a distinct projection on the top of the shoulder; it is necessarily always associated witli fracture of tlie acromion or coracoid processes, and is caused by some violence forcing the liumerus upwards. The long head of the biceps is sometimes displaced from its groove, giving rise to swelling, pain, and fixity of the joint; the arm is locked in the abducted position, and to relieve tbis con- dition the sboulder joint must be flexed and the humerus rotated outwards or inwards as the case may be. In diagnosing dislocations of the shoulder, the great point to attend to is the relation of the head of the bone to the acromion and coracoid processes. The coracoid process lies in the groove between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, usually a little overlapped by the inner edge of the latter muscle, and about one inch below the clavicle, and the same distance from its outer end, or opposite the deepest part of the anterior concavity at the outer end of the clavicle. It is about one finger's-breadth to the inner side of the head of the humerus. Passing between the process and the clavicle is the strong coraco-clavicular (conoid and trapezoid) ligament. It is necessary to distinguish disloca- tion from (a) fracture of the anatomical neck of the scapula, and (&) atrophy of the deltoid muscle. 1. In Fracture there wdl be a history of severe direct violence, the displacement is easily reduced but as readily returns when the support is withdrawn. Both injuries may occur together. Further, the arm will be held close to the side, and there will be marked limpness and mobility of the arm 2. In Atrophy of the Deltoid there will be apparent flattening, but the globular liead will still be felt in its proper relation to the coracoid and acromion processes, and the joint i^, freely movable. The deltoid may be atrophied from drn^e in cases of ankylosis of the shoulder joint, but is more frequent