536 Applied Anatomy: MOVEMENTS OF THE EYEBALL. There are, in all, seven muscles acting on the globe—the four recti, the superior and inferior obliques, and the levator palpebric superioris. Their nervous supply is as follows—The external rectus is supplied by the »ixt]i nerve; the superior oblique by the fourtlt ; and all the rest by the tliird or motor oculi—viz., levator palpebriH superioris, superior rectus, internal rectus, inferior rectus, and the inferior oblique. Movements.—(1) To raise the eyeball, the superior rectus and inferior oblique act together; the superior rectus pulls upwards and inwards, the inferior oblique pulls upwards and outwards, but acting together the eye is raised directly upwards. (2) To depress the eyeball the inferior rectus and superior oblique act together; the inferior rectus displaces the ball downwards and inwards, the superior oblique downwards and outwards, but acting together the ball is displaced directly downwards. (3) The external rectus abducts the eyeball, while (4) the internal rectus adducts it. "Fire" in tlie Eye.—This is a condition of irritative con- junctivitis, due usually to a foreign body sticking in the eye, or else a recent abrasion produced by a foreign body, as bits of metal, spots of freshly slaked lime, etc. The usual history is, that it is in a worldng man in good health; the onset is sudden, and only one eye is affected. First, gently separate the lids and examine the exposed part of the globe with the unaided eye, and after- wards, if necessary, with an ordinary pocket lens; then make the patient face a window and ask him to follow with his eye the movements of your finger, while you M'atch the reflection of the window on his cornea. Should there be an abrasion or foi-eign body sticking in the cornea, the image of the window will be broken and irregular at the abraded part. Small foreign bodies embedded in the cornea become surrounded by a hazy zone, and are then easily detected; they are apt to adhere to tlie inner surface of the lids, especially the upper, and the next thing therefore to be done is to examine the inner surface of the lids. By gently depressing "the lower lid its inner surface will be exposed; but for the upper, the lid must bo completely everted Ovpj.' a probe pr the hi^ndle of a pen. Lay the probe on the upjier