ISG Applicd A11 atomy : the linil). The short flap should only be one-fourth the length of the long one, and should contain the large blood-vessels and nerves. In performing a pure Teale, the measurements must be carefully made, and the flaps outlined on the limb with ink, before tlie amputation is commenced. Whether the short flap is an- terior, lateral, or posterior, -will depend on the position of the large blood-vessels and nerves; e.g., at the ankle the short one will be posterior, while at the wrist it will be anterior, and just above the clboAV joint it will be internal. This method is chiefly used at the ankle and immediately above the knee. The advantages claimed for this method are—(1) The bone is well covered by sound tissue. (2) The cicatrix is situated high up on the posterior aspect. (3) It provides a dependent opening for the escape of discharges. (4) The patient can bear a considerable part of his weight on the end of the stump. Its disadvantages are—(1) The great length of the flaps. Because of this the bone must be sawn higher up than in many other methods of amputation, e.g., Syme's "modified circular," and one would, therefore, be guilty of the serious error of removing more of the sound limb than is absolutely necessary, thus giving a less useful stump, as well as increasing the risk of the operation, since tlie nearer we approach the trunk the more fatal do such operations become. This is very marked at parts where the limb at the point of section is particularly fleshy; when the limb is spare this disadvantage is not so marked. (2) The sguare form of the flaps. This necessitates much time and great pains to make them fit well (3) The anterior flap is doubled upon itself, and there is, therefore, great risk of impairing its vitality. (4) In amputating for malignant disease there is greater risk of recurrence in the long flap than in two shorter ones, the bones being divided at the same level. (5) So also in cases of great injury to the soft parts this method would be impracticable, as it would necessitate section of the bone high up. (6) Should the flaps fail to unite by the first intention, the heavy anterior flap will give rise to considerabV trouble in the after treatment. (7) The cut surface is extensive. 3 Spence's Method.-By a long anterior flap; but the flap is mi doiMed upon iUelf, nor does it require to be so long as m Tealks method; it simply folds loosely over the posterior segment ot the stump, and, when healed, the cicatrix is on the posterior aspect.