267 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the anterior tibial artery especially, or any of the other vessels, be split, and retract beyond the reach of easy ligature. The bones are then to be sawn, and the sharp angle removed from the anterior edge of the tibia. In order to do this, it is nsual to commence sawing the bone obliquely from a point half-an-inch above the place where the bones are to be sawn transversely, and when the oblique section has crossed the line of the transverse one, then withdraw the saw and apply it transversely half-an-inch lower down than the commencement of the oblique cut. When the saw is about half-way through the tibia, then alter the direction of the blade, so that it will take up the fibula, which is to be completely divided before the tibia, to avoid cracking and splintering of the weaker bone. The fibula is apt to project at the outer angle, and to prevent this j\Ir Duncan divides it nearly an inch higher up than the tibia. The sharp angle of the crest of the tibia may be removed with the bone forceps, or a small saw, after the limb is removed, should the operator so prefer it; this method probably disturbs the jjeriosteum less than the other way. It is well, in order to lessen the risk of necrosis, to split the periosteum along the crest and turn aside two little triangular flaps of that membrane, before the saw or forceps is applied, so that it may not be stripped off to a higher level than that at which the saw is actually applied. The vessels divided are—(1) Anterior tibial, (2) posterior tibial, (3) peroneal artery, and (4) the long and short saphena veins, all of -which may require ligature. By this amputation the vessels arc cut transversely, and the cicatrix is placed behind. 2. Lister's Amputation.—Take the diameter of the limb, by spanning, at the point of the intended division of the bone, and then make a straight longitudinal incision equal in length to two- thirds of this diameter, along the inner aspect of the leg, com- mencing one inch Ijelow the point at which the bone is to be divided, and half-an-inch posterior to the inner edge of the tibia. A similar incision is made on the outer aspect, directly over the fibula, but is to be prolonged an inch higher up than the internal incision {i.e., up to the point of section of the bone), for reasons already stated. The two incisions are then united by a transverse cut, with well-rounded angles, at the points where it meets tlie lateral incisions. A posterior llap is then made fronr the upper