Siirgica/, ^fcdical, and Operative. has bcL'u removed ;uul tlic jwriosteum has also been destvoycd. An aiigidar splint, witli a joint opjiosite the elbow, will be necessary so as to keep the parts at rest and yet allow sufficient passive ilexiou and extension. Pronation and supination must also be attended to, but for this purpose tlie splint will require to be removed. The amount of bone removed in excision for disease should not be too meagre, lest osseous ankylosis result. The whole condyloid extremity of the humerus should be removed, the saw passing through the olecranon and coronoid fossae, but at the same time taking care to leave the broadest possible osseous surface; the greater and lesser sigmoid cavities of the ulna should be removed, as well as the head of the radius. Partial Excision for Disease is not good, as it is apt to result in osseous ankylosis, or else in a return of the disease ; for Injury, it is often unsuccessful and more dangerous to life. In disease there is but little danger of a " flail-like " joint resulting. It is never thought necessary now-a-days to resort to the barbarous proceeding, formerly much in vogue in the early days of joint excision, of moving the .joint like a pump-handle several times a-day immediately after the operation. This is an excessively painful proceeding; but, apart altogether from this, the results of this plan of treatment were often very unsatisfactory — in some cases being ankylosis, in others a "flail-like" joint. In addition to using the weight and pulley to steady the parts and keep the muscles from pressing the bony surfaces together, e.g., in excision of the elbow joint, Professor CniEXE sometimes uses a box-like splint of perforated sheet-lead, outside the ordinary dressings, into wliicli the arm is laid, the wliole Ijoing fastened by a few turns of bandage. Tlic advantages of tlic single straight incision ai'e—(1) It avoids transverse division of tlie triceps, and, therefore, the action of this muscle as an extensor is jn-eserved ; (2) it further avoids a transverse cicatrix behind the joint, which is apt to interfere with flexion of the joint; (3) recovery is more rapid, provided the wound IS well drained; and (4) as there is no transverse cut, passive move- ment can always be commenced early. A disadvantage, sometimes mentioned, is that it is more dillicult to drain thoroughly.