Sur^/ca/, }fiulical, ainf Operative. 383 as in Acute Synovitis, the swelling is best seen on the dorsal aspect of the wrist, showing a general fulness, and some bulging between the tendons. The joain is very acute, and, as the joint is so superficial, there will be heat and redness; it is fixed in a slightly-flexed position, and any attempt at movement causes great pain. When, however, the wrist joint is firmly fixed, the fingers may be moved without causing pain; this shows that the inflammation is not in the sheaths of the tendons {teno-synovitis). But if, on the other hand, when the M^-ist joint is fixed, the move- ments of the fingers give rise to pain, there is strong reason for believing that the synovial lining of the sheaths of the tendons is inflamed. The wrist joint may be dislocated—1. Backwards. 2. Forwards. TJie usual cause is a fall on the palm, or by the hand being bent forcibly backwards. 1. Backwards.—Symptoms—This is the most common form and is characterised by (a) the presence on the back of the wrist of a prominence with a convex upper margin; (h) the radius and ulna form a projection on the palmar aspect, but the styloid processes retain their normal relationship; and (c) the length of the fore-arm is unaltered, but the distance between the styloid processes and the base of the metacarpus is shortened. 2. Forwards.—Symptoms—Tlie whole hand is displaced to tlie palmar aspect, and there is a prominence on the dorsum with a concave lower margin, caused by the radius and ulna, the styloid processes of which can be readily felt. Treatment.—Draw the hand forcibly downwards, and press the projection into its proper place; it usually slips in with a snap. Then keep the arm in a sling, but be careful that the fingers, thumb, and wrist joint do not stiffen. Any of the bones composing the Thumb may be dislocated, but the most frequent form is dislocation bacl<wards of the first phalanx from the metacarpal bone, tlie base of tlio first plialanx lying on tlie dorsal surface of the head of the metacarpal bone. It .should be reduced either l)y extending the displaced ])halanx, or else by forcibly bending it backwards and pressing the head into position, while the metacarpal bone is flexed as mucli as possible into the palm to relax the flexor brevis. In many cases, however, great difficulty is experienced in oll'ecting