Applied Anatomy: 284 branches of the ijrofimda among the adductors, the descending branches of the external circumflex, the comes nervi ischiadici beside the great sciatic nerve, and probably branches of tlie anastoraotica magna. RESUME of Spence's amputation:— 1. Measure with the eye the half circumference of the limb. 2. Recognise the guides to the operation—a point just above the femoral tuberosities ("condyles") for the bases of tire flaps, and lower margin of patella for its apex. 3. Sweep the knife tlirough these points, forming a broad, square-shaped flap, with weU-rounded angles. 4. Dissect up this flap from ofi" the patella and front of the knee joint; at the upper edge of tlie pateUa cut deeply and obliquely towards the femur. 5. Apply the edge of the knife to the skin on the posterior aspect, about tJiree inches below the base of the anterior flap, forming a convex flap, and then divide the tissues obliquely to the bone. G. Retract the soft parts, clear and saw the femur a little way above the condyles. Teale's Amputation (1856).—This is performed according to the rules given elsewhere. Measure the circumference of the limb at the point "where the bone is to be divided, and then mark out the long flap, making its length and breadth each equal to one-half of the circumference of the limb. Trace out the inner longitudinal line first, making it as near as possible to the femoral vessels, without including them in the anterior flap. If the tissues are healthy, the anterior flap maj'^ be taken from the front of the knee joint and patella. The posterior flap is next marked out, and its length is to be one-fourth that of the anterior. Tlie lateral incisions are first made, and must only go through the integumentary structures. The anterior flap will probably at first only consist of skin and fascia, but above the upper border of the patella it must include everything down to the thigh bone. The posterior flap is made by a single sweep of the knife down to the bone through muscles, vessels, and nerves. The bone is then cleared and sawn close to the base of the flaps.