86 Applied Anatomy: After the operation the patient shoukl be placed in hed with the head and shoulders raised. His head should he bent a little forwards to relax the parts, and fixed in that position by a circle of bandage round it, with strips passing from it to be fixed to a broad band round the chest. An opiate, or a mixture containing hydrocyanic acid, may be necessary to allay laryngeal irritation. RESUME of this operation:— 1. An incision three inches long is made from a little above the cricoid cartilage to the episternal notch. 2. Expose the sterno-mastoid and divide its sternal head and draw it outwards, and draw the omo-hyoid up- wards. 3. Secure the anterior jugular and middle thyroid veins. 4. Expose the sterno-hyoid and draw aside or divide it; the sterno-thyroid will not require division, as a rule. 5. Press a finger backwards towards the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra3 and feel for the "carotid tubercle;" the artery will be felt rolling imder the finger. 6. Divide the common sheath and clear the artery from its s-pedal cellular tissue sheath and tie as in the high operation. Sedillot has ligatured the artery at the root of the neck by an incision between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid; the head is flexed, the two parts of the musele separated, and the vessel exposed and tied, taking special care of the vagus nerve and the internal jugular vein. Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 12).-1. Branches of the external carotid on the side tied, anastomosing with the corre- sponding branches of the opposite side (4), viz.-(a) Facial witU facial; (M temporal with temporal; (.) occipital with occipital; {d) superior thyroid with superior thyroid (10). 2. Anastomoses between the internal carotids of opposite sides through the anterior serrment of the "circle of WiUis"-anterior cerebral of the one side with the anterior cerebral of tlie other, tlirougli the anterior communicating (1). 3. Anastomoses between the subclavian and the external carotid of the side tied-(a) Tlie deep cervical (11)