35S Applied Anatomy: at niglit or on chauges of weather. There is, further, jpain on pressure, either vertically along the limh or transversely, as in this way the sensitive and inflamed interior is squeezed. CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS. For the study of dislocations, joints may he classified into three groups :—(1) Those that depend for their strength mainly upon ligaments, as the sterno-clavicular and the superior radio-ulnar, and the knee ; (2) those that are osseously strong, as the hip ; and (3) those that are muscularly strong, as the shoulder. Dislocation is spedally apt to occur in muscularly strong joints, when the muscles are caught unawares, as they are resting. In joints whose strength depends on ligaments we are apt to get a " sprain " rather than a dislocation ; while in osseously strong joints the articular surfaces are apt to be jammed together, the encrusting cartilages damaged, the result being a contusion of the joint. In all cases of supposed dislocation or fracture of the bones and joints of the extremities, let me remind the student, once for all, that the patient has (in most cases at least) two arms and two legs, as the case may be, and that, tlierefore, the very first thing that he must do is to thoroughly expose and compare the injured with the sound limb. It is possible, liowever (a possibility which must always be kept in mind), that the sound limb may have received a previous injury, which may render it useless as^ a standard of comparison. Marked deformity and fixity of a joint point to dislocation; while helplessness, loss of power over the limb, pain, and limpness, point to fracture. THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Sterno-Clavicular Articulation.—Cte, Diarthrosis; Suh-Class, Arthrodia, or glichng. The parts entering into its formation arc the sternal end of the clavicle, the first piece of the sternum, and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surface of tlic clavicle is much larger than tliat of the sternum, and is invested by a thicker layer of cartilage; the sternal facet is obli-iue, and looks upwards and outwards. ^Ir Mourns points out that this obliquity allows the sternum to advance upon the end of tlie clavicle" during inspiration. Tliere is a con.plctc inter-articular