Applied A naloniy : 60 the platysma and deep fascia, is theu turned upwards and outwards. Th.e sternal liead of the sterno-mastoid, and part or whole of the clavicular head, is next divided on a director and turned outwards. Avoid the anterior jugular vem and its communications, and divide the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles in the same manner. Carefully separate the cellular tissue with the handle of the scalpel or the finger-nail, when the artery, with the internal jugular vein, will be brought into view. At the lower part of the wound the internal jugular vein inclines away from the artery, leaving the pneumo-gastric nerve visible. The proper point for the application of the ligature is in the space between the vagus and the recurrent laryngeal nerve on the inner side, and the thyroid axis, phrenic nerve, internal jugiUar vein, and cardiac nerves on the outer side. The deep guide for the ligature of this vessel is to trace down the carotid to the bifurcation of the innominate, and then the subclavian artery is to be followed outwards till the vagus nerve is recognised by the finger. The internal jugular vein is pressed out of the way, and the nerves drawn aside in the direction indicated, the vessel cleared with the finger and director, and the needle passed from below upwards, but in doing so be careful not to injure the pleura or the right innominate vein, or include the vagus nerve. The subclavian vein is in front of the artery, and on a much lower level, being under cover of the clavicle and subclavius muscle, so that it is not likely to give any trouble during the operation. Occasionally, however, it rises in the neck as high as the artery, and in two cases it has been found accompanying the artery behind the scalenus auticus muscle. LEFT SUBCLAVIAN.—First Part. This vessel arises from the end of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, opposite the middle of the first piece of the sternum, and extends to the inner edge of the scalenus auticus. It differs from the right in being—(1) Much longer; (2) more deeply placed; (3) it ascends almost vertically upwards from its point of origin to its termination. Relations.—In froni—(\) Left pleura and lung; (2) left internal jugular and umominate veins; (3) the same three muscles as on right side—sterno-raastoid, sterno- thyroid, and sterno-hyoid; (4) the same three nerve., as on the