Snrg^ical, Medical, and Operative. 185 be shaped by dissection, otherwise the tendons and muscles being loosed by the injury, yield before the knife and are dragged out. III.—Combination IVlethocis (Flap and Circular). 1. IVIoclified Circular (Syme).—Two semi-lunar incisions, \vith their convexities downwards, are made through the integuments, forming two sliort flaps, each equal to one-quarter of the diameter of tlie limb; the flaps are then dissected up and the skin aird fat above the bases of the flaps raised, as in the circular method, for a distance equal to the length of the flajjs. The muscles are thus exposed, as in tlie circular method, at a distance equal to half the diameter of the limb above the convex ends of the flaps, and are then di\dded by a circular incision on a level with the retracted skin, the superficial layer of muscles on the posterior aspect being divided one-quarter of the diameter of the limb lower down than those on the anterior aspect—i.e., on a level with the base of the skin flaps. The soft parts are then forcibly retracted, and the bone cleared and sawn higher up. The only difference between the "modified circular" of Syme and the " triple incision " of Bell consists in the mode of dealing witli tlie skin; in fact, it is just the circular method with a small A-shaped piece of skin removed from each side. The " modified circular " is specially useful when amputating through cone-shaped parts, as, for example, just below the calf. In that position, were the ordinary circular method used, it would be impossible to retract the skin sufficiently without splitting it; but the modified circular renders its retraction easy. In the upper extremity also it has the great advantage of giving the longest possible stump; and the fact that the scar is opposite the end of the bone is not such a serious objection m the upper extremity as it is in the lower. It is also useful in amputations through the fleshy parts of the thigh, and in operations below the knee. It gives the longest possible stump, and the smallest possible wound compatible witli good covering of tlic bones. 2. Teale's IVIethod (hj lomj and i^liort rectangular Jhqw).—The long flap is folded over the end of the bone, and sliould not contain the large blood-vessels and nerves of the limb; and its lengtli and its breadtli should be each equal to one-half the circumference of