Applied Anatomy: 316 is to be supported by a sling, and the elbow allowed to bang freely down (Bell). He may be allowed to move about, the elbow being carefully supported (Holmes). In any case it must be gradually brought into useful motion, first passive, and then voluntary. In the case of this joint however, even though the parts should unite by osseous ankylosis, it is of little consequence, as the mobility of the scapula compensates for the stiff shoulder joint, and the arm, during healing, naturally falls into the most useful position under the action of gravity. The advantages of the longitudinal incision, in this position, are—(1) The deltoid muscle is not injured to any extent, and will therefore be of great service after the wound has healed; (2) the posterior circumflex artery is not divided, except a few of its terminal twigs, and therefore the ha3morrhage is not great; and (3) if the joint is too bad for excision, the wound is easily trans- formed into a Spence's amputation. The only disadvantage is that it is rather more difficult to perform than by the next incision. After excision the arm can never be raised beyond a right angle; flexion, extension, and adduction are usually free, but rotation is, as a rule, permanently lost. The amount of abduction will necessarily depend on how the operation has been performed; if by the deltoid flap, then it will be greatly diminished. The length and strength of the arm are of little consequence, so long as ft is able to be a useful servant to the Uand, which is the chief point to be considered in all excisions of the upper extremity. RESUME of this operation :— 1. Make the incision so as to avoid the cephalic vein: incision to go at once to capsule or bone, and be four inches long. 2. Open up the bicipital groove and displace the long head of the biceps to the outer side. .3. Rotate outwards and divide the tendon of subscapularis and capsule, by cutting on the anatomical neck of the humerus. 4. Displace the tendon of the biceps to the inner side, let the arm hang well over the table and the elbow be drawn slightly baclovards, rotate the humerus inwards and divide the tendons of the supra-spinatus and teres