15 16 Teviot Place, Edinburgh. Price 4s. 6d. Illustrated by 22 Plates (many Coloured) or 72 Figures. Anatomy of the Brain and Spinal Oord By J. RYLAND WHITAKEE, Senior Doiionstrator of Anatomy in the School of Medicine, Edinburgh. Used as a Text Book in the chief Medical Schools. ' The work modestly disclaims oiiginality; but it has merits of clearness of exposition and comprehensiveness of statement which are perhaps of more value in a work of this kind. It is an excellent Manual for Students. The Plates by which it is illustrated are all well executed.'—Scotsman. ' This little work embodies the series of demonstrations on the Brain and Spinal Cord, which the author has been in the habit of giving to senior students of the Edinburgh Scliool of Medicine. It is nicely illustrated with 22 Plates, several of wliich ai-e differentially coloured.' —Journal of Microscopy and Natural Science. ' The author has no doubt used his experience as a demonstrator to arrive at such well-choseu words to convey his descriptions of the Brain and Spiujil Oord. Admirable in clearness, and including every- thiug of real importance, this little book will be found to be a useful Manual, not only to the student, but to those who keep up or revive their knowledge of the Anatomy of the nervous centres. It would be too much to say that Mr WIdtaker has made easy the Anatomy of the Brain and Spinal Cord, but it appears to us that he has made it easier than any otlier Manual we have read. The verbal descriptions are concise and well expressed, and the illustrations show special skill.' —Journal of Afental Science. 'It is a handy volume, cont.'iiiiiug rather more than one gets in the Brain and Oord chapters iu tlio anatomical text-books, and the order of presentation is good. There are numerous I'latos, some of them original—the one showing the distribution of the Tracts of the Oord being specially useful. A very good feature, too, is tlie tabular arrange- ment, showing in a general wiiy the ropresuntaticm of the parts seen iu one cross-section iu the section at another level.'—American Journal of P.vjclioloijy. ' To the student preparing for his examination, or to the practitioner desiring to refresh his knowledge of the Anatomy of the Brain aud Spinal (;or<l. we can cordially reconinieiid this little volume. It con- tains a very clear and succinct account of the subject. It is admirably illustrated by twonty-two lithographic I'latos, aud the text is well up to date.'—Edinhurrjh Medical Journal.