Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 4(57 Tlie pelvis may be broken by crushes between a cart and a wall, mining accidents, in railway collisions, etc. (a) The False Pelvis IS usually broken by lateral crushes; but fracture of this part IS not so serious as fracture of the true pelvis, (h) The True PelviS-This is most likely to suflPer from antero-posterior com- pression; the great danger of this fracture is injury to the various pelvic viscera, especially the urethra, bladder, and rectum. The membranous part of the urethra is most apt to be injured, as the fracture very constantly passes through the rami of the pubes and ischium and is therefore very near the urethra. To detect fracture ot the false pelvis, grasp and try to move the iliac crests. For the true pelvi. feel the rami of the pubes and ischium; but in every spiciile of bone be pushed into the urethra or bladder The Anterior Inferior Spinous Process may be torn off by the rectus in running or jumping, more especially before complete consolidation—the twenty-fifth year. Treatment.-The chief point in the treatment of the case is never to let the patient attempt to pass water, but theVCeon ZZM:"V]i ' Hadder-gum-erastic It possible. If the urethra is ruptured, the patient would simplv niake water into his perineal tissues on any attempt at micturZn m es,, fortunately, the centres for that act were paralysed by the It shows that the bladder is not ruptured. Should the urine be bloody It may point to various accidents, but at any rate Tu al cases of doubt a soft catheter should be tied in and a s™h arrangement attached to it, so that the urine may drain aw^v a •soon as 1 enters the bladder. In passing a catheter k ep it pom well against the upper wall of the urethra, as this part less hkely to be torn than the lower part of th circumf^' nc The pelvis is hen to be steadied by a broad flannel band H w"h plenty of wad.lmg below, and a .louble spica over all The prognosis is fairly good, so far as immediate daiZ lifj oncerned; iut ever afterwards the patient will b he .1 witimrr ""'1''"' "•"■'^"•^ .stricture-the traum tie- '''' '-''-"^-y «^*"^ed