Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 65 and iuflamed, having probably in some way been interfered Avith during the exposure of the vessel. (2) The transversalis colli and supra-scapular arteries also lie superficial to the scalenus anticus, and must be carefully preserved from injury, as they play a very important part in the collateral circulation: both these vessels run parallel with the clavicle, the supra-scapular being behind it, and tlie transversalis colli just above it. (3) The confluence of the nrternal jugular and subclavian veins is also commonly in front of the scalenus anticus. (4) On the left side the thoracic duct wHl be found arching downwards in front of the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve. On the right side a corresponding structure, the right lymphatic duct, may also be found, but it is usuaUy very smaU. THIRD PART OF SUBCLAVIAN. -Right and Left. This is the part most frequently ligatured, because—(1) It is the most superficial part; (2) it is the longest part; (3) it is usuaUy free from branches; (4) the first rib is interposed between it and the pleura, and, by passing the needle as the artery lies on the first rib, we avoid wounding the pleura, and will also usually avoid coming into contact with any abnormal arterial branches—as these usuaUy arise close to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus. It extends from the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle to the lower border of the first rib, and is contained in a small triangular space, the lower and smaUer of the two divisions of the posterior triangle, bounded by the sterno-mastoid in front, the clavicle below, and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid above (see Fig. 14). Relations.—In/row!(—(l) Skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep cervical fascia. (2) A plexus of veins formed by the external jugular and its tributaries in this region, viz., supra-scapular, trans- versalis colli, and frequently also a communication from the anterior jugular, and another from the cephalic vein. (3) The descendin^r branchesof the cervical plexus of nerves. (4) Nerve to the subclavius! 5) Clavicle and subclavius muscle. (6) The supra-scapular artery. 7) The subclavian vein, but at a much lower level. Ahom— (1) Tlie cords going to form the brachial plexus. (2) The posterior telly of the omo-hyoid. BeUnd—l\x^ scalenus mcdius. Below— Ihe first rib, and partly also the nerve trunk formed by the union ot the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves. The same nerve cords E