548 Applied Anatomy: the vitreous liumour on tke retina irritating it; contraction of the iield of vision, from the paralysing effects of pressure on the retina, which is thinnest at the periphery, and also because the vascular supply is obstructed; the cupped disc, because it is the point of least resistance, and it therefore yields to the increased pressure. By the ophthalmoscope one may see—(a) Cupping of the optic disc, the cup is very deep, and extends right up to the edge of the disc; and over the edge, the vessels seem to dip with an abrupt curve, like a shepherd's crook, as the pressure has pushed them from the centre towards the periphery; \b) pulsation of the retinal arteries, especially if the globe be pressed upon; (c) the full and tortuous veins, and {d) there may also be small hEemorrhages. The cause of the increased tension is doubtful. It has been supposed to be due to increased secretion of fluid from irritation of the fifth and inhibition of-the vaso-motor branches of the sympa- thetic ; or else due to the damming back of the fluid ordinarily secreted, by the closure of the spaces of Fontana, from adhesion between the iris and the cornea at that angle, thus preventing permeation of fluid from the aqueous chamber through the canal of ScHLEMM, and thence into the veins. Treatment.—The sulphate of eserine, or nitrate of pilocarpine, as palliative measures. Radical—(1) Iridectomy (see page 550), the best radical cure. (2) Myotomy, or the division of the cdiary muscle, as it has been supposed to be due to spasm of this muscle. (3) Sclerotomy, or division of the sclerotic at its junction with the cornea, to open up the spaces of Fontana; prolapse of the ins is the usual result of this operation, but it may be tried after the failure of iridectomy. Before dividing the sclerotic, introduce eserine, to contract the pupil and so lessen the risk of prolapse; if done after iridectomy, of course this risk is removed. CATARACT EXTRACTION. The method usually adopted at the present day is Graefe's modified linear, or something closely resembling it. Instruments required-(1) Graefe's spring speculum; (2) a toothed fixing forceps; (3) Graefe's narrow-bladed cataract knife; (4) a curved and finely-toothed iris forceps; (5) scissors, to snip ofi' a portion