530 Applied Anatomy: uculi. It is regarded as a distinct serous sac, with a parietal layer covering tlie fattj^ tissue, and a visceral layer enclosing about three- fourths of the entire globe, extending from tlie base of the orbit to the optic nerve, with the sheath of wliich it blends. Just as in the case of the peritoneum, lymphatic vessels begin on the epithelial- lined surface by stomata. The ocular muscles pierce this capsule as they pass to their insertion into the choroid; in operations there- fore for strabismus, this capsule must be opened before the tendon is thoroughly exposed; and since a serous cavity is thus opened, the necessity for strict antiseptic precautions is very evident. THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. This consists of—(1) The lachrymal gland and its ducts opening around the outer canthus, especially on the upper lid; (2) pnncta lachrymalia, which are the openings into (3) tlie canaliculi, which lead into (4) the lachrymal sac, from which (5) the nasal duct descends to open into the inferior meatus of the nose (Fig. 116). Puncta Lachrymalia and Canaliculi.—The puncta are two small apertures, situated one on the free margin of each lid, about one quarter of an inch from the inner canthus; they are the openings of two small ducts—the canaliculi. Each canaliculus takes a curved course inwards—the upper first passing upwards and then curving downwards; the lower first passing downwards and inwards, and then curving upwards and inwards ; and therefore, in introducing a probe, or in slitting open the canaliculus, the lid should be drawn outwards, to make it as straight as possible. The lower canaliculus is shorter, wider, and not so much arched as the upper, and is the one usually opened, both because it is easier, and also because it carries off most of the fluid. In doing this the edge of the knife is directed inwards, and passed fii-st a little downwards and a little inwards, and then inwards and very slightly upAvards, till it touches the lachrymal bone. Lachrymal Sac—If from any cause this sac requires to be opened {e.g., when suppuration lias occurred in it), it should be opened from tlie outer side, because the angidar artery (the termination of the facial) and the large angular vein are on its inner or nasal side. The sac is placed in the inner angle of the orbit, and crossed in front by tlie tendo-oculi and sonic of tlio