253 Sitrou-al, Medical, and Operative. cut, as they say it avoids the tedious dissection of the heel flap round the projecting os calcis, as in the other method. The knife is then to be carried round the tibia and fibula to prepare them for the saw, while the assistant retracts the flap; the external malleolus is next to be grasped with lion forceps, and then both malleoli are sawn off, including a thin slice of the intervening part of the tibia —just enough to include all the cartilage-covered surface. The saw must be kept parallel with the lower end of the tibia, that is to say, at right angles to the axis of the limb, the blade neither being aUowed to cut obliquely in the antero-posterior direction, nor yet from side to side. Both in clearing the bone and in sawin^^ it the operator must again be careful of the posterior tibial artery,' and also the vessels that lie behind the two malleoli—the con- tinuation of the peroneal behind the external malleolus, and a branch of the posterior tibial behind the internal. In dissecting the heel flap by keeping the knife dose to tlie hone we avoicl makmg button holes, and also "scoring" the flap, which is especially objectionable, as it severs large numbers of fine vessels on which the nutrition of the heel flap chiefly depends, and which form long anastomosing loops nearer the bone than the skin, and running chiefly in the antero-posterior direction (as looked at in the position of amputation). These important anastomosing loops are derived from two lateral arteries of some size running alon- each side of the heel flap; the outer one is the continuation of the peroneal artery, while the inner one is derived from tlie posterior tibial artery about one inch above the ankle joint. When the incisions are made according to Mr Syme's directions the posterior tibial artery is not cut till after its division into internal and external plantars; the point of section is just in the angle where the two incisions meet on the inner side (see Fig. 51). Some difficulty may be experienced in stitching tire hard edge of the heel flap to tlie thin skin in front of the stump. Before stitchino- up the wound it is necessary to secure every vessel that can be seen, as well as the dorsalis pedis (or tlic termination of the antenor tibial) and the two plantar vessels, to avoid as for as possible any general of)zing. As regards drainage Ce can eitlier make a lonqUudhial. slit in tlie lowest part (as tlie patient lies in bed) of the heel flap, so that