408 Applied Anatomy: short plantar ligament (tlie short calcaneo-cuhoid); (3) the inferior calcaneo-soaplioid ligament, which, supports the head of the astra- galus ; (4) the plantar fascia also assists to maintain the arch ; (5) the tendon of the tibialis posticus; and (6) the tonic contraction of the muscles of the sole. AVhen these structures are relaxed the head of the astragalus passes downwards, forwards, and inwards, producing the condition known as y?a^/oo^, which is often associated with a peculiar straight and rigid condition of the great toe at the metatarso-phalaugeal articulation, and Avhich has been designated " haUux rigidus." Inversion is a much freer movement. It takes place at three points—(1) to a very slight extent at the ankle joint proper ; (2) a little at the articulation between the astragalus and the OS calcis; but chiefly at (3) the transverse articulation of the foot, i.e., at the astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid articulations. We have an example of this form of movement in tali'pes varus, where the foot is twisted inwards and the sole is contracted. Flexors of the ankle joint.—Z>i>ec^—(1) The tibialis anticus, (2) the peroneus tertius. Indirect—(1) The extensor longus digitorum, and (2) the extensor proprius hallucis. ExtenSOrs.—Direct—(1) The muscles of the calf (gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris); (2) the tibialis posticus; (3) the peroneus longus; and (4) the peroneus brevis. Indirect—(1) The flexor longus digitorum; and (2) the flexor longus hallucis. Note that the indii-ect fexors of the ankle joint are extensors of the toes; while the indirect extensors are flexors of the toes. Evertors.—(1) The peroneus longus, (2) the peroneus brevis, and (3) the peroneus tertius. Invertors.—(1) The tibialis anticus, and (2) the tibialis posticus. It should be noted that in ordinary extension movements of the ankle, when a person is sitting or lying, the muscles of the calf are not used, but the move- ment is performed by the flexors of the toes (indirect extensors). It is only when the movement is resisted, or when greater force is required that the muscles of the calf are used. Flexion of the joint is limited by the posterior part of the deltoid ligament, by the pos- terior fasciculus of the external ligament, by the posterior ligament, and by the contact of the head of the astragalus with the tibia. Kdenslon is limited by the anterior fibres of tlie deltoid ligament, anterior and middle fasciculi of the outer, by the anterior ligameut, and by the contact of the astragalus with the tibia behiud.