544 Applied A natomy: irritation of this surface, as by snuff or the volatile oil of mustard, is often accompanied by increased lachrymatiou. The terminal branches of this division—the supra-orbital, supra-trochlear, and nasal—are frequently implicated in the disease known as Herpes Zoster, probably a form of neuritis. The nasal branch of this nerve takes a very remarkable course; it enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus, and between the two divisions of the third nerve, passes obliquely across the optic nerve to the inner wall of the orbit, and enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It then enters the cranial cavity, lies on the anterior part of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, passes down through a slit by the side of the crista galli into the nose, where it divides into branches to supply the septum and the outer wall of the nose with common sensation. It gives branches to the ciliary ganglion, gives off the two long ciliary nerves to the eye, and an infra-trochlear twig to the lower part of the inner angle of the orbit; this latter branch supplies the skin, the conjunctiva, the lachrymal sac, and the caruncula lachrymalis. The ophthalmic division of the fifth appears on the face five times—(1) As the supra-orbital (2) the supra- trochlear, (3) the nasal, (4) infra-trochlear, and (5) the lachrymal. When this division of the fifth is paralysed there is loss of sensa- tion in the various parts supplied, dryness of the eye from paralysis of the secretory fibres of the lachrymal gland, and also destructive inflammation of the cornea, partly from the loss of trophic influence, but also because foreign bodies do not produce sensible irritation or winking, and are, therefore, not expelled as foreign bodies, because they are not felt. The conjunctiva covering the lower eyelid is not afi'ected, as this is supplied by a twig from the infra-orbital of the second division of the fifth. The Sixth Nerve.—This nerve arises from a nucleus in the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, beneath the fasciculus teres, continuous with the grey matter of the anterior horn of the cord, common to it and the portio dura of the seventh. It passes along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus close to the internal carotid artery, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and supplies the external rectus. The result of paralysis of this nerve is internal squint (convergent). Being convergent it is therefore hoinoirijuums, i.e., just as in the paralysis of the