83 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. LIGATURE ABOVE THE OMO-HYOID. The patient should be placed iu the recumbent position, and his shoulders raised by means of pillows, the head being thrown back a little, and the face turned towards the opposite shoulder, in order to make the sterno-mastoid tense and prominent, and the angle of the jaw turned up somewhat. The neck sliould be com- pressed at the lower part, in order to make the superficial veins, as the anterior and external jugulars, turgid, and their course noted, so that they may be avoided as much as possible in making the necessary incision. The Surgeon should stand on the same side as the vessel about to be ligatured, and most conveniently behind the shoulder for the left side, but in front of the right, or in both cases facing the side of the patient's neck. Superficial Guide.—The line marking its course, or the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. I nclsion.—With the line of the vessel iu mind, make an incision three inches in length, so arranged that its centre shall be on a level with, or rather higher than, the cricoid cartilage—the point usually selected for ligature above the omo-hyoid (see Fig. 14). The upper part of this incision Avill be a few lines wMver the middle line of the neck than the reputed anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, this muscle diverging from the artery as it rises higher in the neck; this, however, is only the case when the process of deep cervical fascia, already mentioned, is divided, and therefore must not be looked for out of the dissecting room. By this incision, we divide—(1) the skin, (2) superficial fascia, (3) jjlatysma. (-1) Then cut through the deep iascia and expose the edge of the sterno-mastoid, and draw it aside with blunt hooks, the head being previously turned a little towards the same shoulder and flexed by the assistant, in order to relax its fibres. (5) Jixpose the omo-hyoid by cutting through a dense fascia coverijig it and the other muscles and carotid sheath. It is of importance to note that at this part of its course there is usually a large venous plexus in front of the vessel formed cliiefly by the su])erior thyroid veins with connnuni- cations from the lingual, facial, anterior, and external jugulars. (f>) Draw aside the lateral lobe of the thyroid body Avhich is now exposed, and look for the deep guide to the vessel, viz., the angle loriucd Ijy tlic anterior bully of the omo-hyoid with the anterior