508 Applied A natomy: very efficient, but when the lip is reached another plan may be adopted—a hair lip needle passed deeply through the tissues of the lip to act as a splint, or a deep silver suture may be used for the same purpose. Before putting in the needle or silver wire, how- ever, a silk suture shoiild be passed through the mucous membrane, but left untied; after this horse-hair sutures are passed and tied to hold the skin edges in apposition, then the silver one is tightened, and, lastly, the silk suture through the mucous membrane is tied, first removing all blood clots from between the edges of the mucous membrane. In this way neat apposition of the cut edge is inswed. If the hair lip needle be used, its point must be cut off with the wire nippers. Mr Bell advises that, in making the incision through the skin, we should make plenty of corners and not rounded curves, as the corners act as guides and enable us to stitch like parts to like, whereas, in curves, it is often difficult to teU exactly the cor- responding parts of the two sides. Should it be necessary to remove the malar bone, then from the end of the upper incision carry another cut, one inch in length, along the zygoma (see Fig. 110, A). In this case also it Avill be necessary to divide the zygomatic process, and the external orbital angle of the frontal bone into the spheno-maxillary fissure by first usfng a small saw, and then completing the division with the bone forceps. It is better, if possible, however, to preserve the malar bone, as this leaves the prominence of the cheek. In cases also of simple tumour and sarcoma confined .to the alveolar edge, leave the orbital plate of the superior maxilla, as this gives support to the eyeball; where this plate is removed the eye falls down and is apt to be destroyed by subsequent inflammation. Chief Parts Cut Through. —1. The skin and fascia; part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, orbicularis oris, and temporal fascia; part of the masseter and temporal muscles, zygomatici, buccinator, and other muscles of expression; the lachrymal sac or nasal duct, levator labii superioris et alse nasi, compressor naris, depressor alffi nasi, orbicularis oris, inferior oblique of eye, and tendo-ocuh; and the mucous membrane of the lip. 2. Nerves-Chiefly branches of facial and branches of second division of the fifth that appear on the face, as well as tlie infra-trochlear, and in the end the trunk ot the second division of the fifth itself in front of Meckel's ganglion.