268 Applied Anatomy: Olid of the internal incision to a point exactly opposite that in the external incision—that is, one inch below its upper extremity This flap should be half the length of the anterior, and is made by carrying the knife round the back of the limb with the blade at an angle of forty-five degrees to the horizon, through the integumentary structures only, and dissecting it up to the level of the upper end of the internal straight incision. By this means we get rid of the heavy mass of muscles of the calf. The anterior flap is dissected up to a siraUar point, both flaps retracted, and the bones cleared as high as the line of the external incision, and the operation finished as described in the previous amputation (see Fig. 54). 3. The Modified Circular.—The leg is held, as in the previous amputations, supported horizontally, and well rotated inwards, so as to throw the fibula weU forwards; the assistant must also extend the toes forcibly as the operator's knife divides the muscles in front, and dorsiflex forcibly as he divides the posterior group of muscles. In this way the muscles are rendered tense and more easily divided. Another assistant, standing opposite the Surgeon, pulls up the skin well, both before and after the first incisions. The Surgeon stands so that his left hand grasps the hmb to be removed above the level of the amputation, i.e., on the rigid side; and then cuts two equal semi-lunar flaps of skin from the outside by dissection. In order to cover both bones equallj^, and avoid their projecting at either of the angles of the incisions, the flaps may be placed rather antero-external and postero-internal. In raising the posterior, the limb should be elevated to enable the Surgeon to see better what he is doing. Both flaps are then retracted and the skin at their bases turned back for a little way, and the muscles divided at that level by a circular sweep of the knife, and the bones cleared for an inch or an inch and a half high er up, and there divided with all the usual j)r6cautions. As the posterior muscles, especially the superficial layer, retract further than the anterior (being divided at a greater distance from their origin), they should be divided at a lower level, say, a couple of inches below the base of the skin flap. Instead of making the skm flaps anterior and posterior, Mr Bryant uses lateral skin flaps, with circular division of the muscles. This is objectionable—1. Because the tendon of the quadriceps