Applied Anatomy: 176 simply covered hy the integumentary structures, and crossed near its point of bifurcation by the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, which may be taken as the guide to the vessel. It lies between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and the extensor communis digitorum, and has tlie anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. It rests on the bones of the tarsus and their dorsal ligaments. It may be tied in the upper part of its course by an incision an inch and a half long, in the line of the vessel, on the outer side of and parallel with the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis. To reach the vessel it is only necessary to cut through the skin, superficial, and deep fascia, and hold aside the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis. Branches. —(1) Tarsal, (2) metatarsal, (3) communicating, and (4) dorsalis hallucis. Collateral Circulation. —See anastomoses, 4 to 6, inclusive, under "Posterior Tibial Artery." The External Plantar Artery and Plantar Arch.—The course of this vessel may be mapped out on the sole of the foot as follows:—A line ch-awn from the tip of the internal malleolus to the point of the heel woivld pass through its origin, which is rather nearer the malleolus than the heel. From this pomt it runs forwards and outwards, taking a slightly arched coiu-se, with the convexity outwards, to the base of the fourth inter-metatarsal space; this forms its superficial part, and it is covered by the superficial structures and plantar fascia, the abductor hallucis, and the flexor brevis digitorum muscles. From this point its course is deeper; it turns round the outer border of the accessorius, and runs forwards and inwards to the posterior part of the first interosseous space forming the plantar arch, lying upon the interossei and the bases of the metatarsal bones. The arch is completed by the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis, and is covered by the first three layers of muscles of the sole of the foot. In regard to Wounds of this arch the same principles of treatment must be adopted as in Avounds of the palmar arches. The vessel is deep—the fascia over it is dense,—the tendons, muscles, and nerves are numerous and important; a large scar on the sole of the foot is a serious thing, and, therefore, before lightly under- taking the operation of tying the vessel at the bleeding point these