306 Applied Anatomy: iodoform, Avitli free drainage, and strict antiseptic dressing, and rigid splints to insure perfect red, may give a very good result- ed., in the ankle joint. This operation is known by the name of " Arthrectomy," to distinguish it from the operation of excision, properly so called : it is also called " erasion of the joint." It is often adopted in the case of the knee, and the incisions used may be lateral, or resemble those used for the operation of excision, after the limb has been rendered bloodless by Esmarch's method. Should this method be adopted, let the incisions be made m such a way that they will not interfere with subsequent excision, should that be found necessary. IV. Incision versm Expectancy.—1. Conddcr the po8Sihihty uf Natural Cure.—A large and important joint onght not to be rashly excised, if such a possibiHty exists. It is especially advisable to wait, in the upper classes, who can procure all the benefits of the best medical skill and attendance, good food and good nursing; with hospital patients, however, the case is diiferent, and probably excision wiH prove the kindest and best treatment. It is also advis- able to wait in cases where the disease is local and the general health crood. 2. Consider the possible ResuU of a Natural Cure.— The great drawback to the "expectant" plan is the prolonged course of the disease, perhaps for mouths or years, and often at the end of that time the patient is little better, or even worse than had an operation been performed, and from which he wonld probably have recovered in a few weeks. Hence we must care- fully place before the patient the two possible alternatives-speedy cure but with the risk of the operation, opposed to prolonged illness and risk of exhaustion, and in the end - ^^^^^^^^^ In the case, however, of the wrist joint, it is a little dilfeieiit (see "Excision of Wrist"). n-7 w V. Excision versus Amputation.-l. ne Gomparaln^ h>sl <t the Two o^.«ra^.-o««.-Excision makes a larger wound and thereto e a -reater strain on the constitution and a larger surface for septic bs ;t on; hence, in advanced disease of the joint, with abscesses around it and discharging sinuses, it is better to amputate a t would be a difficult matter to make and keep the wound Ipti 2. As regards the Joint affected, and the advan ages o Tub leil, an artificial .ubstitute.-Excision ,s sater than