545 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. fourth, the right hand image belongs to the right eye and vice versd. There may also be contraction of the pupil in paralysis of this nerve, because some of the sympathetic fibres pass along with it to reach the radiating fibres of the iris. The patient "vvill also feel giddy when the healthy eye is closed, as he has then false ideas of the position of external objects, because one judges of their position, to a great extent, by the degree of effort required to bring the eye to look at any given object. Also, if the patient close the good eye and strike at an object, he misses it by going too far to the outer side; and in like manner he cannot walk in a straight line, but takes a curve outwards as he attempts to reach any given point. The causes of paralysis of the ocular nerves are very various. "We have such causes as rheumatism, syphilis, and locomotor ataxy; pressure on the cavernous sinus, due to cerebral abscess, carotid aneurism or dilatation of the internal carotid. The third nerve passes between the posterior cerebral and the superior cerebellar arteries, and is, therefore, very apt to be compressed in old people where the arteries are diseased. Malignant tumours, aneurisms, and gummata at the base of the skull, also cause paralysis; very often one or more nerves being simultaneously affected. The common causes of oxMlialmoplegia externa are locomotor ataxia, syphilis, diphtheria, and exposure to cold; if from syphihs, it is seldom very regular, one or more muscles usually escaping. Paralysis of accommodation is sometimes noticed after " sliglit sore throat," so slight as to be overlooked at the time. The Sympathetic Nerve in relation to the eye.—In addition to its ordinary vaso-motor action, the sympathetic is the motor nerve to the dilator pupillge, and also to Muller's muscle—a layer of non-striped muscular tissue bridging across the sphenoidal fissure. The centre is probably situated in the medulla, but the fibres pass down the cord some little distance (ciUo-sjnnal region), leaving it through the last cervical or the first two dorsal nerves, and entering the corresponding ganglia of the sympathetic trunk, up which they pass to the base of the skull, then along the plexus around the internal carotid artery (carotid and cavernous plexuses), pass along tlie sixth nerve, and then join the ophthalmic division of the fifth, forming part of its nasal brancli, and thence throufdi 2 M