Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 5r)8 7. Tighten the tendon siitures iirst introduced. 8. Fasten the traction snture to the nose hy plaster, pulling the eye inwards as far as possible. This suture soon cuts its way out: the tendon sutures are left in for a week or so. Prince's Operation.—For this operation it is better to have Prince's special advancement forceps, and a special curved and handled needle with the eye in. point is sometimes necessary, though, as a rule, the usual curved needles are quite sufficient. We also require one double-needled suture, one single-needled suture, as well as the ordmary strabismus instninients. 1. Expose the internal rectus as in last operation. 2. Hook it up on strabismiis hook, or grasp it with special forceps. 3. Pass sutures through the tendou, using the double- needled suture—passing both needles from behind forwards, through the rectus, its sheath, and the conjunctiva. This is the " loop sxdure." 4. Divide and remove part of the tendon. 5. Divide the external rectus in the usual way. 6. Pass a suture through the conjunctival and subconjunc- tival tissue near the edge of the cornea, ojiposite the tendon to be advanced. This suture should be passed in the vertical direction, and is the " piLlley suture." 7. Tie this suture tightly, making it include one of the ends of the suture through the tendon. This suture is to act as a pulley, or point iVapjmi, by means of which the tendon is pulled forwards by the other suture. 8. Tie the two ends of the suture through the tendon, pull- ing the tendon tightly up against the former suture. 9. Bring the edges of the divided conjunctiva together by means of a suture. Brudenell Carter's Operation.—By this operation the sheath of the optic nerve is opened for the relief of pressure. It is said tliat fluid in the arachnoid space is forced through the optic foramen, between the two coats of the optic nerve, in certain cases where the intra-cranial pressure is increased. Tlio fluid passes along the nerve up to its insertion into the eyeball, but there it