372 Applied A natomy: rotate inwards till a distinct sense of resistance is felt, then fix the head of the bone, and gradually bring the arm to the side; if this is unsuccessful it may be necessary to try the same movements, but with rotation of the humerus outwards instead of inwards. Unless the attempt at reduction is made immediately after the dislocation, when the muscles are semi-paralysed from shock, the patient should be placed under the influence of chloroform. After reduction of the dislocation, the usual directions are—that the arm should be firmly fixed for at least two weeks, put up in a sling for another fortnight, and at tlie end of a month passive motion employed. This amount of rest is unnecessary and decidedly injurious; it is simply playing into the hands of "bone-setters." The shoulder is a muscularly strong joint, and there is no tendency, after reduction, to a redislocation. All that is required is to keep the limb at rest for a few days, till the first inflammatory symptoms have passed off, and after that the sooner it is brought into use the better, especially in young persons; at first it is merely to be allowed to swing about easily in a sling, and then passive and active movements begun; or, if in season, give the young patient a spade and pail, and send him to some sea-bathing town. ISlore harm Avill result from keeping it too long at rest, than from beginning to move it too soon; a good deal may be safely left to the feelings of the patient. In reducing old standing dislocations the probable condition of the axillary artery must be carefully investigated—e.r/., whether it is affected with atheroma or calcification, and, whetlier it may not be included in the new fibrous formations around the joint; because, under these circumstances, it is very apt to be ruptured during the necessary manipulations. THE ELBOW. The Elbow Joint.—C/as.s, Diarthrosis; Siih-Olass, Ginglymus. The lones entering into its formation are the trochlear surface of the humerus, articulating with the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna; the lesser head, or capitellum, with which the cup-shaped upper end of the head of the radius articulates. The Synovial Membrane is extensive; it covers the margins of the articular