Applied Anatomy: 510 some similar piece of wood, partially sharpened, should always he at hand to plug the foramen in the hone, where the inferior dental artery lies, in order to stop the bleeding. Tlie Surgeon starids on tlie riglit side. (1) Place tlie patient in a recumhent position, with tlie slioulders slightly raised; shave the part if necessary, extract an incisor tooth, fix the point of the tongue, and malce the incision (Fig. Ill, h). The usual directions are to hegin the incision above and immediately behind the articulation of the lower jaw, but in front of the temporal and external carotid arteries, and carry it deeply down to the bone along the ascend- ing ramus of the jaw, and then forwards mvler the horizontal ramus, so that the resulting scar may be hidden, till opposite the point where the bone is to be divided, and then carry it upwards towards, but do not divide the lip. The lip, however, may be divided if necessary, as it really does not matter since it unites readily enough, and the saving of it might embarrass the operator. An important point is to endeavour to have every- thing separated from the jaw on the outer side and beloA^', and the bone° divided before opening through the mucous membrane into the mouth; this will help greatly to prevent blood passing into the trachea. For the same reason it is probably better not to draw a tooth as the fird step of the operation. In the case of a simple tumour of limited extent; or in the case of a female, an attempt may be made to do the whole operation by an incision under tlic jaw Secure the facial artery, before or as soon as divided, by a catch forceps (Wells's), and at once tie it. (2) Dissect this ilap upwards and inwards to expose the bone, and clear the inner side of the jaw from contiguous structures, using a narrow bistoury, and keeping its edge close to the bone. (3) Saw through the jaw partiaUy, close to the symphysis, and complete the division with tlie bone pliers. (4) Depress the divided ramus with the lett hand or lion forceps, till the insertion of the temporal muscle into the coronoid process is seen, and then divide it at its insertion. If this be impossible then snip olf the coronoid process m the meantime, and remove it afterwards if necessary, (o) Turn the jaw horizontally outwards, still depressing it, to make the external ligaments of the jouit tense, and open the joint/yo/» the front, ana keep the edge of the knife close to the bone to avoid wounding the