Applied Anatomy: 394 2. Into the Sciatic Notcll (hadcwanh).—The Symptoms of this form resemble very closely those of the previous dislocation, only they are less marked—it is simply a less advanced form. The limb is shortened about half-an-inch, the knee is inverted and touches the opposite knee, but does not tend to cross over it, and the ball of the great toe rests on the head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe of the opposite foot. There is less flexion and less biilgiug at the hip than in dislocation on to the dorsum ilii. The head of the bone rests, not in the sciatic notch, as the name would imply, but on the back of the ischium, opposite, or a little above, the level of the spine, and below the tendon of the obturator internus muscle C^hachmrd dislocation below the tendon"). This dislocation is produced when the limb is in the same position as in the last form, but with greater flexion and internal rotation. The backward dislocations must also be distinguished from— (1) Fracture of the neck with inversion. In ordinary cases of frac- ture there is usually marked eversion, which at once distinguishes it from ordinary forms of dislo(;atiou. This form of fracture is rare, and the increased mobility, the extension of the limb, the marked loss of power, the pain, and the existence of crepitus will aid the diagnosis. (2) Impacted extra-cajmdar fracture, with ■inversion. Here the limb will probably be extended; Bryant's line shortened from half to one inch, approximation of the great trochanter to the middle line, as shown by the " bitrochanteric " measurement. There will be great pain over, and probably broad- ening of, the great trochanter, but the joint will permit movement freely in all directions, though the great trochanter will not move in so large a cu'cle as on the sound side. Further, there will be the usual feeling of resistance in tlie groin behind the femoral vessels, but on pressing the hand against the outer side of the thigh the ilio-tibial band will be found to be less tense than on the sound side. Great care is necessary in ^mrforming these maniindations, lest an impacted fracture he converted into an unimiiactcd one. Reduction of Backward Dislocations by Manipulation.—The great object is to make the head of the bone pass back to the acetabulum in exactly the same direction as it left that cavity, and, therefore, the limb must be put into the same positions as that m Avhich the dislocation occurred—viz., flexed, abducted, and rotated