Surgical, ^fedical, and Operative. 275 ilisscctiiig it oir and cutting above it when opening tlie joint, or it may be dissected out after the fla]) is raised; but by removing it the bursa is lost, and the flap is so thinned that it is apt to perish by sloughing. A most important part of the after treatment is the l»roper drainage of the wound, as in all cases where large synovial pouches are opened. This is best accomplished by the introduc- tion of two long drainage tubes, inserted into the extreme upper corners of the pouches and their ends brought out at the two angles of the wound. They must not be interfered with till the third day, and must never on any account be completely removed during the dressing of the wound, as it would probably be impossible to replace them ; they must simply be withdrawn half-an-inch or so at each dressing, and the projecting piece cut off, as the wound heals. An objection to this method is the very long anterior skin llap, which may possibly slough, as compared with amputation at the seat of election " by the " modified circular," where the skin llai,s have no tendency to slough. An advantage of amputation at the knee is that there is no sami bone surface, which is a great advantage if by any chance the wound were to become septic. ° 2. Short Anterior and Long Posterior Flap.—The leg is held as m the previous operation, and the Surgeon may either stand on the right or left side of the limb. A slightly curved incision is made from the lower and back part of one condyle, passincr just below the patella, and ending at the lower and back part of the other condyle. This Hap is then dissected up, the knee flexed, and the joint opened above the ]mtella, by a semi-circular sweep of lie knife. The lateral and crucial ligaments are next divided the bones fully separated by dividing the j^osteriov ligament, and' the kuifc passed behind the tibia with its edge directed dowmvards and a arge flap about four or live inches long cut from the upper part of the calf of the leg. In making this posterior Hap the assistant must Hex and displace the tibia a little forwards till the knife IS fairly behind it; then the skin is to be drawn well upwards a.id the leg extended as the knife cuts the Hap. As usual, the O'lle must be carried down close to the bone for some distance, and llicu In^juglit abruptly out so as to make the end of the Ha], ratlu^r square tlian round. The great objection to this amputation is the tondenry ol tlie posterior llap t(; retract.