Ill Suro7cai, Medical, and Operative. artery is better fitted for ligature than the parts we have previously considered—(1) It is twice as long as either of the others; (2) its lower part (half or third) is simply covered by the common tegu- meutar}' structures, and lias no muscle in front of it; (3) its branches come ofl' well up towards its beginning, and are therefore out of the way at the point where the artery is usually ligatured. This is important, because, if the vessel be ligatured too near these branches, secondary hasmorrhage is apt to occur. Therefore, the ligature should be applied as low down as possible. PECULIAEITIES. —(1) The artery may be covered by a muscular slip from the latissimus dorsi; (2) in one out of every ten cases there are two arteries instead of one, the second usually being one of the arteries of the fore-arm, usually the radial, some- times the ulnar, and still more rarely, the interosseous. In other cases, the circumflex, subscapular, and profunda arteries arise from the third part by a common trunk; (3) the position of the nerves vary—instead of encircling the axillary artery, they may encircle a large branch formed by the union of several of the usual branches, and, in this case, they would therefore be useless as the "deep guide." RESUME of the chief points in ligature of third part of axillary :— 1. Make an incision, three inches long, at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the axilla, from the prominence of the coraco-brachialis to the centre of the hollow of the axilla. 2. At first the incision must go through skin and super- ficial fascia only, and, if necessary, avoid the basilic vein at the outer end of the incision. 3. Then open the deep fascia forming the base of the axilla, when probably the axillary vein and the median nerve will present; then flex the fore-arm, and— 4. Hold the lips of the wound aside and displace the vein with the internal cutaneous nerve to tlie inner side, and the median nerve witli the coraco-brachialis muscle to the outer side. 5. Clear the artery near its termination and ligature, passing the needle from the inner side.