Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 183 thencefortli known as the " td'ple incision.'" The integument being ih'iiwn up by iin assistant, who grasps tlie limb with botli hands, the operator divides the skin and fat by a single circular sweep of the knife; the skin and fatty tissue are then dissected back as one layer for a distance equal to half the diameter of the limb. The muscles are next divided at the level of tlie retracted skin by another circular sweep of the knife, and retracted for a distance varying from one to two inches, according to the thickness of the limb; and, lastly, the bone is cleared and sawn as high up as possible. In this way, when the soft parts are brought into position, the bone is at tlie bottom of a deep cavity, the object being to prevent the "sugar-loaf stuTup." The name, "triple incision," was given to this method by jMr Hey, who also advised that the posterior muscles should be cut longer than the anterior, to compensate for their greater retraction, as tliey are cut further from their origin, and therefore retract more than the anterior. The jirst incision is through the skin and fat only; the second, through the muscles; and the tliird, round the bone to separate the muscles and clear it for the application of the saw. Advantages—(1) All the blood vessels are cut transversely, and are therefore more likely to contract and retract well, and prevent unnecessary hajmorrhage; (2) in fleshy limbs it is specially good, as it prevents redundance of useless muscle; (3) the surface of the wound is smaller than in the flap method. Disadvantages—(1) The cicatrix is opposite the end of the bone and adherent to it; in the lower extremity this is a serious disadvantage, as the patient can never bear any part of the weight of the body upon it, and besides it often causes a painful and tender stump. (2) It is a tedious and therefore a very painful operation; this, liowever, is of no consequence now, as the patient is anajsthctised. (3) In stitching up the wound puckered corners are left at each end, the skin of the two sides not lying smoothly in apposition. II. The Flap Method.—By Haps, formed either by cutting from without inwards, {i.e., by dissection), or from Avithin outwards {i.e., by transfixion). The number, size, and position of the flaps vary much; the flap furthest from tlic main artery sliould be cut first. Advantages—(1) It is more easily and rapidly performed as compared with tlic circular, and is tliercfore less painful to the