Applied Anatomy: 564 that may be present in the tube. Instead of taking a mouthful of water other pLxns may be adopted, such, for example, as asking the patient to say " Huck " (Gruber), or a still more convenient plan of simply directing the patient to puff out the cheeks (Holt). In cases wbere the patient, or Surgeon, is doubtful ■whether the air has or has not entered the cavity, one of the patient's ears must be connected with that of the Surgeon by a flexible rubber tube. In this way the Surgeon will be able to tell whether the air enters the cavity in the usual amount and with the iisual force, or feebly, or not at all, according to the presence or absence of stenosis of the Eustachian tube; he ^viU also hear in this way whether there are superadded sounds, such as bubbling or craclding from the presence of fluid in the cavity, or Avhether a whistling sound is heard, due to tlie air passing right through the membrane and tube into the Surgeon's ear, from the presence of a perforation in the membrana tympani. 3. If the above means fail, then recourse must be had to the Eustachian Catheter. The catheter may be made of various materials, hard rubber, vulcanite, silver, etc. It is curved at the end which is passed into the tube; at the other end it is expanded so as to fit the nozzle of the air-bag, and also has a ring, which corresponds to the concave side of the curve at the point, so that it thus indicates the position of the point of the instrument when it is lost to sight. The Surgeon connects his ear with the diseased ear of the patient by means of the flexible tube. The patient sits facing the light, with his head leaning slightly backwards, the moutli open and breathing easily. The Surgeon stands in front of the patient, with the air-bag under his left arm, and with his left hand slightly raises the tip of the patient's nose, and with tlic right passes the catheter along the floor of the inferior meatus, with its point dowuAvards, and pushes it gently ouAvards till the posterior wall of the pharynx is reached. After this, the method recommended by Dr McBride, is to turn the point of the instru- ment inwards, towards the median line, through a quarter of a circle, and then withdraw it till the curve at the point is caught by tlie nasal septum, when it is again rotated, through half a circle this .time, so that its point is brought at right angles to the lateral wall of the pharynx, and then, if it is not in the tube, a little