512 Applied Anatomy: anterior two-thirds of the tongue, while the lingual is the nerve of common sensation to the same part. (6) Arteries—viz., inferior dental, facial and its submental branch, inferior coronary, inferior labial, mental and masseteric, and other small muscular branches. The uiternal maxillary may be cut, or even the external carotid near the point where it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary, if the operator be not sufficiently careful. The care necessary in disarticulating the jaw will at once be evident when one remembers the close relation of various important structures to it—such as the internal maxillary artery, temporo- maxillary vein, auriculo-temporal nerve Avith the middle meningeal artery between its two heads of origiu, and the chorda tympani close to the Glaseriau fissure, and the other branches of the third division of the fifth. Avoid also the facial nerve as far as possible, the external carotid artery, and the lingual nerve. The excision of the central part of the lower jaM' is always a dangerous operation. There is the risk of suffocation, from the retraction of the hyoid bone and tongue, when the attachments of the mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-glossi muscles are divided from the bone. To prevent this as far as possible, the tongue must be fixed by a strong ligature passed through its tip, and held well out by an assistant. For the same reason it is better in excision of one side of the lower jaw not to cut through the symphysis exactly, but a little external to it, so as to leave the insertions of the genio-hyoid and the genio-hyo-glossus muscles. r t RESUME of this operation:— 1. Extract a central incisor tooth. 2. ]\rake the skin incision; do not go too far up lest the facial nerve be unnecessarily divided, or too for back lest the external carotid artery and temporo-facial vein be divided; secure the facial artery before it is divided by a double ligature, also secure its submental branch. 3. Kapidly dissect up the flap and expose the outer surface of the bone, and secure bleeding points. 4. Clear the inner surface of the bone as far as possible, and then