Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 153 external pnilic. It may be said that tliosc vessels arc so small tliat tliey are not worth taking into account, but this is by no means the case; they bleed A'ery freely and more esisecially if tliey are cut near their origin, for then the cut end retracts so much that the wound becomes, for all practical purposes, equivalent to a wound of the common femoral itself. (3) Another possible objection to this operation is lest the cicatrix, by its contraction, may interfere with the integrity of the femoral ring. Another fact very much against the success of this operation is, that the artery is of so uncertain length. The common femoral is sometimes wounded in shoemakers when, in paring leather, the knife slips ofP the lap-board. The vessel may be reached either by—(1) A Vertical incision, two inches long, right over the artery, beginning at Poupart's ligament; or by (2) a Transverse incision (Porter's), two and a half inches long, across the course of the vessel, about an inch below Poupart's ligament. The vertical incision is probably the best. The Surgeon stands on the outer side of the limb, on both sides of the body. In either case the Structures cut through are— (1) Skin; (2) superficial fascia with the superficial vessels, nerves, and lymphatics in this region; (3) iliac part of the deep fascia and branches of the genito-crural, and anterior crural nerves; (4) the femoral sheath, Avhich must be opened over the vessel. Carefully isolate the artery from tlie surrounding structures and pass the needle from the inner side, i.e., from the vein, taking special care not to include the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, Vhich lies on the sheath of the artery. As already mentioned, the results of this operation are by no means satisfactory—(1) Gangrene has fol- lowed in several cases ; but the great cause of death is (2) secondary liEemorrhagc. Hence, in cases where it might be deemed expedient to tic the vessel at this point, it is better not to do so, but rather to ligature the external iliac at once. Collateral Circulation (Fig. 30).—1. Sciatic (3), from tlic internal iliac, anastomosing with tlie internal circuniiiex (11), ex- ternal circumOex (3.5), and perforating arteries (15, 18, 19). 2. Tlio obturator (4) from the internal iliac, with the internal circumflex of the profunda (11). 3. The gluteal (1) from tlie internal iliac, wiili the ascending branch of the external circumflex of the profunda (7). 4. The deep external pudic with the superiicial iieroneal artery.