ISO Applied Anatomy: use thorn, as an ordinary transfixion knife does jjerfectly well. The blade is of tlie same breadth throughout; it is not sharp-pointed like a transfixion knife, and, further,, it is slightly curved towards the point, the concave side of the curve, of course, being towards the edge of the knife. By means of this knife it is supposed that the operator can encircle the limb more easily. In making Haps by dissection, the skin and the subcutaneous fatty tissue must be i-aised as one layer, and in doing so the edge of th.e knife must always be directed aioay from tbe skin (just the opposite to the plan used in the dissecting-room) and towards the part to be removed, never towards the under surface of tlie flap. By this means we avoid ■cutting the small vessels in tlie subcutaneous fat that go to nom-ish the skin, and are, therefore, less likely to cause sloughing. The skin itself must be cut at right angles to the surface to avoid under- mining or shelving of the edge. 6. Saws, with strong, broad blades, fine teeth properly set, and strong, movable backs; also various other kinds for special opera- tions, as finger and metacarpal saws. In sawing the bone, previously cleared by the knife, place tbe lieel of the saw on the bone, the blade being steadied by resting against the second joint of the left thumb, and then draw it witb firm pressure towards you, in order to make a groove for it to run in, and thus prevent it slipping about; after tliis, use long, light, sweeping movements, from point to heel, the assistant in the meantime taking care to hold the bone in such a way that he does not lock the saw by raising it, nor snap it through, before complete division, by depressing it. Another excellent way to avoid splintering is to direct the assistant to make gentle extension in the long axis of the bone bemg divided. lu limbs with two bones of equal size they should be sawn through together; if of unequal size, the smaller should first be divided, and in the case of the femur the saw should be so manipulated that its posterior ridge (lima aspera) is divided before the rest of the bone is entirely sawn through. In all cases where there is but one bone, if the saw is gradually changed from the horizontal to the vertical, the bone is less likely to snap across if improperly held. To clear the bone:—(1) Where there is hut one bone—Yov this purpose use a firm, circular sweep of the knife, from heel to point, round tlie under se-^nneutof the bone, and then another sweep round its upper