17 Snrgical, Medical, and Operative. clot is absent, viz., blood, and it is diilicult to see how a cnre can bo effected under tliese circumstances. (3) It jxits the cart before the horse, as it Avere, or reverses, the order of Nature; for it aims at causing contraction of the sac as a primary thing, whereas we ]iave already seen, in discussing the spontaneous cure of aneurism by coagulation, that the contraction of the sac follows as a secondary result upon the contraction of the fibrin of the blood clot. (b) Indirect pressure (i.e., pressure on the main artery on the proximal side of the aneurism) may be applied in various ways — (1) Digital, by relays of well-trained intelligent assistants, taught how to apply a proper amount of pressure, and in the proper direction. It is, as a rule, simple, easy, painless, and rapid, and statistics of results are much better than those of ligature. Pressure is further useful in many cases, e.g., in the femorai, even though the vessel may have to be ligatured afterwards, as it opens up the collateral circulation, and for this reason gangrene is less hkely to follow the operation. In some cases, however, it is very painful, so that the patient must be kept under the influence of an anaisthetic. (2) Instrumental, as Carte's tourniquet, or P. H. Watson's weight-compressor for the femoral artery in the groin ; Skey's^ or SiGNORONi's tourniquets for the brachial artery; and Lister's for the aorta or common iliac arteries. Wliatever method be employed there must be no circular compression of the limb, and the pressure ought, if possible, to be elastic. (.3) Flexion, (Hart) may sometimes succeed in curing aneurism situated at tlie bend of the limb, and on tlie superficial aspect of the artery, e.g., m the popliteal space and in the space in fi'ont of tlie elbow joint. The limb is bandaged in acute flexion, and the patient is kept m bed with restricted diet. Tliis mctliod may be used when the aneurism is-(a) in the flexure of a joint; (h) not of large size; (c) when the coverings of the sac arc free from inflammation ; {d) when the joint is not involved; (e) wlien the aneurism is on the superficial aspect of the circumference of the artery; (/) occasion- ally when other means, such as ligature or instrumental compression, lad. (4) Esmarch's bandage (L'loii.). This combines the ellects of direct pressure, and tl,e tutal stoiipage of the circulation. Supposing the ancMinsin to be in the p..p]iteal space, we arc dirt'ctcd to bandage the lunl) frum the toes up to tlio po])liteal spac(>. iiretty firmly, then n