291 Snrgt'cal, Medical, and Operative. lu .amputations through the thigli, the following Structures are divided, speaking generally (Fig. 60):—1. The integumentary coverings. 2. Muscles—(o) The quadriceps extensor cruris, {h) the sartorius, {c) the adductor longus, {d) the adductor magnus, (e) the gracilis, and (/) the hamstrings. 3. Vessels—(«) The femoral vessels (about this point these will be found at the inner side of the posterior flap); (],) the profunda vessels with the perforating branches (these will also be found in the posterior flap, close to the posterior surface of the femur) j (c) the long saphenous vein, and branches of the external circumflex; and {d) the comes nervi ischiadici. The position of the femoral will vary with the point of section; for, as has already been pointed out, the vessel as it passes down the thigh gradually inclines from the anterior to the posterior aspect of the bone, so that it may be found at some parts in the inner side of the anterior flap. 4. Nerves—(a) The great sciatic; and also small branches of— {h) the obturator, {,•) the anterior crural, {d) the small sciatic, and ('') the external cutaneous. 5. The femur. AMPUTATION AT THE HIP JOINT. As haemorrhage is one of the most serious dangers of this operation, various measures are employed, or have been suggested to overcome this danger :— ' 1. Lister's op Pancoast's Aortic Tourniquet.—Previously this Avas the method usually adopted, but, as Lister himself points out, it has two defects-!. On account of the occasional devia- tion of the arota from its median, or almost median, position, the adjustment of the pad, and its retention when adjusted, is rendered a difficult matter, and it is apt to slip to one side, and in order to prevent this the constant attention of a very trustworthy and steady assistant is required. 2. The Surgeon, especially if inexperienced and nervous, is apt to screw down the pad too tightly and damage the intestines and peritoneum; a soft hollow sponge placed under the pad will, to a certain extent, prevent this. It is compressed immediately a])ove its bifurcation, a little above and to the left ot the umbilicus, as the aorta bifurcates a little to the left and Mow the umbilicus, or on a level with the higliest points of the Iliac crests.