550 Applied Anatomy: corrosive sublimate and then pnt up. Tlie risks of iritis and prolapse of tlie iris are not so great as in the old flap, and by means of strict antiseptic precautions suppiu'ative inflammation can usually be avoided. IRIDECTOMY. This operation consists in the removal of a portion of the iris. This may be required—-1. To form an artificial pupil, in cases Avhere we wish—{a) to get a new opening after prolapse of the iris where the natural one is displaced; {h) to reopen or enlarge a pupil obstructed by previous inflammation; and {c) to displace the pupil towards a transparent part of the cornea, or opposite a clear part of the lens, in cases where the cataract is stationary and central. 2. To influence the course of some diseases as — (a) Glaucoma, (&) recurrent gouty iritis, (c) irido-choroiditis, {d) purulent iritis, (e) advancing staphyloma of coruea, and (/) ulcer of the cornea with pus in the anterior chamber (Irypopyon l-eratitis). 3. For occlusion or exclusion of the pupil after iritis. 4. Sometimes preliminary to cataract extraction, in order to ripen the cataract. The position and preparation of the patient, and the position of the Surgeon and his assistant are the same as in cataract extraction. Instruments required—(1) A spring speculum, (2) fixing forceps, (3) curved scissors Avith elbow bend, (4) fine-toothed iris forceps, and (5) a bent triangular keratome—like a broad needle. The opening for artificial pupil must be made where the media are clearest; if a choice be allowed, then the lower and inner part should be chosen, as this -ndll cause least deformity and also be in the most useful position. The globe being fixed, an incision is made through the cornea and sclerotic junction at the part where the artificial pupil is to be; it should not be all in the cornea, lest the cicatrix con- tract and alter its curvature. The iris forceps is then introduced closed, the iris seized and drawn out, and a little bit snipped ofl" with the scissors, forming a pupil something between square and round in shape. The iris should be grasped at the pupillary border, lest a button-hole be made in it, and then cut ofl' with a single snip. In Glaucoma a Graefe's cataract knife is used and a good large incision made (resembling that for cataract, but not quite so large,)