Applied Anatomy: 396 on account of the tension of the ilio-psoas muscle. The hip is flattened, the prominence of the great trochanter absent, and the gluteal fold is lowered; the head of the hone may be felt under the adductor muscles. The apparent lengthening is believed to he due to a tilting of the pelvis over to the injured side; to make quite certain whether it is lengthened or not, the use of Bryant's test, or careful measurements must be made from the anterior superior iliac spine to some fixed bony point in the limb, e.cj., the tip of the internal malleolus. The movements of adduction and extension are impossible without using great force, and giving rise to severe pain from pressure on the obturator nerve; the limb, however, may still be flexed. 2. Upon the Pubes (forwards and upivards).—The head of the bone rests on the ihum, rather than the pubic bone, close to its junction with the horizontal ramus of the pubes and on the outer side of the femoral artery. It is caused by violence similar to that producing the thyroid variety; but where extension and external rotation of the limb accompany the application of the violence. Symptoms.—The limb is shortened and abducted, and there is marked eversion of the foot and knee, and the heel inchnes towards the opposite one. The great trochanter lies nearer the middle line than the anterior superior spine. The limb cannot be rotated inwards, but may be slightly flexed. There is sometimes pain and numbness down the thigh from pressure on the anterior crural nerve, and congestion and redema from pressure on the vessels. Tliis form is said to resemble fracture of the neck of the femur; but it may be distinguished from this by the greater immobility, and by the situation of the head of the bone in the groin. Reduction of the Anterior Dislocations. —(1) Flex the leg upon the thigh and the thigh upon the abdomen, as in the previous dislocations, but,' at the same time, abducting the limb. (2) Circumduct inwards {i.e., adduct and rotate inwards) until the knee is brought nearly to the middle line of the body; these movements relax the rent in the capsule, render the Y-ligament tense, disengage the head of the bone, and bring it round to the opening by which it escaped. (3) Extend and rotate outwards, so as to make the head of tlic bono re-enter the acetabulum.