13 16 Teviot Place, Edinburgh. Second Edition, price 6s. Revised and Enlarged, with 12 Plates and 40 Woodcuts. OF THE linor Grynecological Operations and Appliances By J. HALLIDAY CEOOM, M.D., r.B.C.P.E., F.R.C.S.E., Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases of Women, School of Medicine ; President of the Obstetrical Society, Edinburgh; and Examiner in Midwifery in the University of Edinburgh and Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, ' The descriptions and recommendations of Dr Groom seem entirely familiar, intelligible, and wholesome. A number of well-executed hthographic plates, giving various relations of the pelvic organs, add to the value of the book.'—American Journal of Obstetrics. ' The work is admirably adajited as a practical guide to obstetric chmcal clerks, house surgeons, and physicians, as well as medical practitionors. It is well arranged thi-oughout, and will, no doubt, retam the hold it has already taken.'—Londo7i Medical Record. ' The Second Edition is considerably modified, and forms almost a completely new book. The clearness and conciseness of the author make his Manual most useful both for practitioners and students.'— Bulletin General de Therapeutiqne. ' All that is of doubtful value is purposely omitted, and only the methods of examination and treatment recognised as the best are described concisely and with capital illustrations. The book, which embraces all the gynecological operations with the exception of the abdominal, is in a high degree likely to fulfil its aim for students.'— Centralldatt fur Gynakoloijie. ' We are glad to see that this valuable Manual has run into a Second Eflition. Its arrangement is such as will commend itself both to the student and busy practitioner. We finish the perusal of this work impressed with its simplicity of arrangement and lucidity of expression.'—Liverpool Medico-Chiruryical Journal. 'Tliis is an admirable book, for which wo are sure the student in midwifery and the diseases of women will be very grateful. We commend it heartily to students, for whose use it is cliiofiy written, and even practitionors will find it very handy and suggestive in many of the emergencies of practice.'—Lancet. ' Both students and practitioners will find in it descriptions, hints and directions—clear, practical, and usolnV—Practitioner.