554 Applied Anatomy: is stopped because of the sclerotic riug; tlie pressure tlius caused produces strangulation of the contents of the optic sheatli—nei-ve fibres and vessels—causing disturbance of vision and secondary atrojihy of the optic nerve. The nerve is exposed and reached from the outer side. The conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissues are divided, the external rectus hooked up, and sutures inserted at two points, and the muscle divided between them. Tenon's capsule is next divided, the intervening tissue scratched through, and the optic nerve exposed; after which the sheath is pinched up and incised, when some fluid will escape. The two ends of the divided rectus are then tied together by the sutures previously introduced, and the conjunctival wound closed. EXCISION OF THE EYE. This may be rendered necessary for—1. Sympathetic^' ojiJt- thahnia (ophthalmitis), usually due to some wound, accidental or operative, in. the ciliary region of the eye—a zone about a quarter of an inch wide surrounding the cornea, often spoken of as the " dangerous zone " of the eye. 2. In cases of wounds, where the vision is destroyed and the foreign body ca:inot be found. 3. In pan-ophthalmitis. 4. In general staphyloma of the globe, or large staphyloma of the cornea. 5. For the removal of tender irritable stumps. G. Tumours of the interior, e.g., glioma of the retina, or melanotic sarcoma of the choroid. Instruments required—(1) Spring speculum; (2) blunt-pointed scissors curved on the flat; (3) fixation forceps; (4) strabismus hook; (5) sponges, lint, and wool; (6) ice-cold water; (7) stj^tic, such as perchloride of iron ; (8) fine needle and silk sutures; and (9) chloroform, etc. The operator may most conveniently stand behind the patient. Introduce the speculum and divide the ocular conjixnctiva all round close to the edge of the cornea, beginning at the upper part, with the scissors. Then raise up the conjunctiva and divide Tenon's capsule also with the scissors, and then with the strabismus hook, hook up and divide the recti one after the other, capsule and all; the superior oblique may also be divided on the hook, but the inferior is left for tlic present. Js'ow make the eye start forwards by pressing the spring speculum beliiud the