7o Surgical, Medical, and Operative. this is no doubt due to some interference with tlie symjiathetic filaments on their way to supply the dilator pupillas. "Wounds of the vertebral are very often mistaken for wounds of the common carotid, because pressure helow the level of the " carotid tubercle " arrests the flow through both vessels, and therefore arrests the bleeding from the wound, and has led in many cases to the ligature of the carotid, whereas the vertebral was the vessel at fault. Above the upper border of the axis the artery passes outwards and upwards to reach the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas; after passing through this it lies in a deep groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of this bone (see " Sub-occipital Triangle"), pierces the posterior occipito-atloid ligament and dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, -winds round the medulla to its anterior aspect, and, at the lower border of the pons, unites with the vessel of the opposite side to form the basilar. In the groove on the posterior arch of the atlas the sub-occipital nerve lies beneath it, and in the skull it lies between the hypo- glossal and the anterior root of the first cervical nerve. On the left side the operation is more difficult and dangerous than on the right, on account of the presence of the thoracic duct. This structure rises in the neck as high as the sixth cervical vertebra, passing outwards behind the internal jugular vein and lying on the vertebral artery and vein (or very frequently between them) the anterior scalene, the supra-scapnlar and transversalis colli arteries, and phrenic nerve. It then curves downwards and inwards to enter the left subclavian vein at its junction with tlie left internal jugular. Note.—(1) The prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is known as the "carotid tubercle" of Ciiassaignac, and by some Surgeons is used as the "deep" guide in ligature of the common carotid artery as well as in ligature of the vertebral; it is also, in Dr Drobeck's method, used as the guide for the inferior thyroid; the artery arches upwards round this process, and is about one inch above it. It is about two inches above the clavicle, or on a level with the cricoid cartilage. (2) ThQ sub-occipital nerve is the undivided posterior primary division of the first cervical nerve. This nerve communicates Avith the great occipital, the vagus, and the hypo-glossal; Avhcn the vertebral