E. & S. Livingstone, Publisliers, 10 Price 3s. 6d. Sanitary Law: A Digest, with Annotations, Leading Cases, and Examination Questions, of the Sanitary Acts of England and Scotland, with. Canal Boat Eegulations, Duties of Medical Officers and Sanitary Inspectors, etc. By H. AUBEEY HUSBAND, M.B., CM., B.So. in PubUo Health, Edin., Formerly Lecturer oji Medical Jurispnidence and Public Health in the Edhihirgh Medical School; Member of the Sanitary ItistitiUe; and Corresponding Metnber of the Medico-Legal Society of New York. ' The matter is clearly and concisely set forth, well arranged and thoronghly reliable. In place of an Index at the end, questions are appended by which the reader may not only easily iiud any information he may require, but at the same time be enabled to fix the particular siibject in his mind. Dr Husband's book is of a highly practical, useful, and, in some respects, iuterestiiig nature, and to all students, as well as to others interested in the subject, we may confidently advise its perusal.'—Dr Anbkbw Wilson in Health. 'This beautifully got up volume consists of analyses, expositions, and illustrations of the principal Sanitary Acts of Parliament passed during the last twenty years. Each Act is skilfully and luminously expounded, and the scope and purport of each clause is indicated and explained. The autlior has quite a genius for this kind of work. The most abtruse Acts of Parliament iu his hands become luminous and interesting. Their most unpromising provisions are all unmistakably pointed out, and hence the reader is never at a loss as to what the law expects of him. Medical students and busy practitioners will welcome this timely treatise. It fills quite a niche of its o-svn, and it meets a long felt need. Medical Officers of Health, hygienic reformers, and politicians will prize the work highly, for it is as reliable as it !s interesting, and as instructive as it is important. The series of questions at its close will prove very serviceable to students, pohticians, and physicians. The public will also_ gratefully receive a treatise of this high importance.'—OW/ia»» Chronicle. ' A detailed account of the Health Act of 1875 is given, and then under separate headings is to be found all necessary luformatiou, admirably condensed, witli regard to sewerage and drainage, disposal of sewage, scavenging and cleaning, commou lodging-houses, nuisances, offensive trades, unsound meat, infectious diseases and hospitals, pre- vention of epidemic diseases, water supply, the various Acts of a sanitary, regulating or protective character, etc. Wo can honestly say that it is the handiest digest of the Sanitary Acts of England and Scotlaud which we can conceive.'—The Hornsey and Ilolloway Press.