Surgical, Medtcal, and Operative. lib' encircle the surgical ueck of tlio liiniicrus, and must Le carefully kept in mind iu excision of the shoulder joint. The circumflex nerve accompanies the posterior vessel, and its position sliould be kept iu miud in cases of supposed coutusiou leading to paralysis of the deltoid. As a guide to the other branches of the axillary remember the position of the iiectoralis minor: its u[)ijer border indicated by a line from the upper border of the third rib to the coracoid process; its (oircr border by a Hue from the loAver border of tlie fifth rib to the coracoid process. BRACHIAL ARTERY. Origin.—It is tlie direct contiuuatiou of the axillary. Extent,— Froiu the lower border of the teres major to a point opposite the neck of the radius—about half-an-iuch below the bend of the elbow —Avhere it divides into radial and ulnar arteries. Course.—Its course corresponds to a depression along the inner border, first of the coraco-brachialis and then of the biceps muscle, or a line drawn from the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the base of the axilla to the middle of the bend of the elbow. It is at first to the inner side of the humerus, but gradually turns to the front of that bone; in a^jplying digital compression this relation of the artery to the humerus must be kept in mind, e.g., if it is compressed at the upper part the pressure must be directed from Avithin out- wards, if at the lower part from before backwards (Fig. 19)., Relations of tfie Vessel.—In fro7it—(1) The skin, superficial and deep fascia; (2) bicipital fascia, with median basilic vein lying on it; and (3) median nerve crossing from the outer to the inner side, and occasionally the internal cutaneous at its uj^per part. Note the triple relation of this nerve to the artery-—at the uufer aide, above; in fi'ont, about the middle; and at its inner side, below. lieliitid—(1) The long and inner heads of triceps; (2) insertion of coraco-brachialis; (3) brachialis anticus; and (4) musculo-spiral nerve, with superior profunda artery, lying between it and the long head of triceps. On the inner side—(1) Tlie median, ulnar, and internal cutaneous nerves; and (2) basilic vein. ()u tlie outer side— (1) The median nerve; (2) coraco-brachialis; and (3) biceps. The vessel may be ligatured—(1) In the upper third of its course, id>ovc the migin of the su[icri<ir pnil'und;!. Here the coraco- Ji