184 Applied Anatomy: patient; but tliis, as already stated, is of little consequence now-a- days. (2) It gives a good muscular cushion to cover the end of the hone; this advantage, however, is more fancied than real, for Surgeons are inclining to the belief that much muscular tissue in a stump is an unmixed evil. The muscular tissue, it is said, atrophies and finally disappears, so that, from this point of view, the circular would be as good as the flap. Still one must remember that, although the musmlar tissue disappears, yet it leaves behind it resistant fibrous tissue. (3) At joints flap amj^utation is better than circular. (4) It is capable of innumerable modifications. Disadvantages—(1) Many of the vessels are cut obliquely, and therefore do not retract and contract so much as they would were they cut transversely as in the circular method; the main artery may even be split or punctured. (2) Previously it often failed to produce so good a stump as the circular method, on account of the irregular retraction of the different muscles. (3) The sui'face of the wound is larger than in the circular amputation. (4) The disadvantage of a thick muscular flap. In all flap amputations care must be taken not to split or puncture the main artery. Transfixion versus Dissection. — Transfixion — In muscular limbs the flaps are apt to be redundant, heavy, and easily displaced; further, the muscles "start," and this delays primary union, and is very painful to the patient. It is more easily and speedily performed, the muscles and deeper parts are smoothly divided, but it is more difficult to form a well-shaped flap. When there is much muscular tissue it has to be tucked in to allow the skin surfaces to meet; this causes tension, gaping of the wound, giving way of the stitches, and many other evils. The skin, too, is often divided very irregularly as, being so elastic, it stretches before the knife. During transfixion operations the limb should be held so as to relax the parts that are to be pierced. Dissection—The flaps can be shaped better, and one can better choose the relative proportions of muscle and skin entering into the flaps. It is less easy to perform and takes longer time. In many j^laces it is impossible to transfix, as the bone is too thinly covered, e.g., anterior aspect of the leg, and the posterior aspect of the fore-arm; in these situations the flaps must be made by dissection. In cases of smash requiring amputation the flaps must