Applied Anatomy: 72 nerves lies immediately behind the suhclavian artery—or may be between it and the iirst rib—and is, therefore, specially liable to be included in the ligature, or even to be tied instead of the artery— mistakes committed by several eminent Surgeons. (8) In some cases the supra-scapular artery is much enlarged, and has been mistaken for the subclavian. (9) Aneurism of the transversaUs colli may simulate subclavian aneurism. (10) The artery may be pushed forwards by a supernumerary cervical rib, or an exostosis springing from the first rib, conditions which at first sight may simulate subclavian aneurism. EESUME of the chief points in this operation :— 1. Make the incision opposite the middle third of the clavicle in the way directed. 2. Make sure of the safety and position of the external jugular and other large veins. Tlie external jugular will be found by scratching through the deep fascia, close to the clavicle, with the handle of the knife. 3. Define the edge of the scalenus anticus, and use the tubercle at its insertion as guide to the vessel. 4. Make a small opening in the sheath and clear the vessel thoroughly. 5. Pass the needle from above. 6. Take care not to include the cord formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves. The anatomical guides to this operation are well marked. We have first the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid, which guides to the outer edge of the anterior scalene; then the anterior scalene itself, and lastly the tubercle at its insertion into the first rib; we have also the cords going to form the brachial plexus. Collateral Circulation, when the subclavian is tied in its second and third parts (see Kg. 12)—1. The supra-scapular (15) from thyroid axis (first part of the subclavian) anastomosing with the dorsalis scapulfe branch of the subscapular (25) (from third part of axillary). 2. The posterior scapular brancli of the transvcrsalis colli (14), of thyroid axis, anastomosing witli the subscapular (25) and circumflex branches (22) of axillary. 3. Internal mnmmary (29) from first part of the subclavian, tlie superior intercostal (18) and