Surgical, .Ifcdhai, and Operative. 101 (Iiypo-glossal) ■which hooks round it; (/) gangliatcd cord of tlic sympathetic. (2) A part passing backwards and inwards just below tlic superior curved line. At this part of its course it lies on— («) IJectus Litcralis; (Ji) superior oblique; and ('•) coniplexus; and is covered by—(«) trapezius; (Ji) sterno-cleido-niastoid; (c) splcnius capitis; (tZ) (.ligastric; {e) trachelo-mastoid; and is overlajaped by (/) the mastoid process. Under the mastoid process it lies in the " occipital groove." (3) The third part pierces the trapezius and turns upwards to the scalp: this part is accompanied by the great occipital nerve and a cutaneous twig from the sub-occipital as well. In the first part of its course it may be tied through an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, Avith its centre opposite the angle formed by this muscle, and the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid. In the second part of its course it may be reached by an incision an incli and a half long, a little behind and below the mastoid process, passing obliquely upwards and backwards. To reach the vessel in this region, we divide skin and fascia, aponeurosis of the sterno-mastoid, the splenius capitis, and part of the trachelo-mastoid. At this part of its course, the vessel lies a little above the superior oblique muscle. PECULIARITIES.—The occipital artery is sometimes derived from the internal carotid, or from the ascending cervical branch of th(! inferior thyroid. BRANCHES.— (1) A sterno-mastoid branch; (2) auricular, to c'jucha; (."5) meningeal, Avhich enters the skull through the jugular luramcn; (-1) princeps cervicis. The princeps cervicis passes doAvn- wards and divides into a superficial and deep part. The superficial part runs beneath the splenius, lying on tlic complexus: the deej) branch lies between tlic complexus and tlie semi-spinalis colli, and anastomoses Avith tlie vertebral, and the profunda cervicis branch of the superior intercostal artery, in the region of the sub-occipital triangle. This anastomosis forms an important collateral supply in the ligature of the common carotid or subclavian arter3^ (5) Occipital to scalp, Avhich anastomose Avith the corresjionding branches from the opposite side, and witli the temporal arteiies. Posterior Auricular.—This branch is given off above the digastric aiul stylo-hyoid muscles, runs along the upper border of the digastric, 'iiid passes between the facial and spinal accessory ucrv(%s. Its