Surgical, Medical, and Operative. from passing; but if no sound is perceived when thus applied, it shows that tlie nerve of hearing is destroyed, or at least functionally useless. External Ear and Membrana Tympani.—This part may be viewed by the unaided eye, by the mirror alone, by the mirror and speculum, and tested by the tuning-fork. In examining the mem- brane, any change of colour can be noted, Avhether it is red, or has lost its glossy appearance; also Avhether it is concave and shows more clearly the various processes of bone in relation with it, from deficient internal pressure, or whether it bulges outwards from accumulation of fluids in the tympanic cavity, from obstruc- tion in the Eustachian tube, or the results of inflammation. Also whether it is movable, as by Valsalva's method, or by Siegle's Pneumatic Speculum, or whether it is perforated, or entirely or partially hidden by wax. The meatus is often attacked by small boils, which are really circumscribed acute inflammations of the parts; they cause great pain and suffering, and form one variety of acute earache. Occasionally the inflammation is difi'use, and when it attacks the bony part it resembles an acute periostitis in its symptoms and course; this also would probably be called acute ear-ache. "Wax" impacted in the ear is often a cause of sudden deafness, either from the mass being displaced so as to block up the canal completely, or from the entrance of water making it swell up so as to cause a complete block. The presence of wax may also cause severe tinnitus, or sounds in the ear, fits of coughing from irritation of Arnold's nerve, or sneezing or persistent yawning from irritation of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The wax should be softened by putting in a few drops of a warm Aveak solution of l)icarbonatc of soda (five grains to the ounce) two or three times a day for a few days, and then syringe out the ear with warm water. The fluid is injected parallel with and along the upper wall; this is sometimes accompanied with vertigo and faintness from irritation of the membrana tympani. The ear must then be dried out with cotton wool, and a plug of dry wool worn for the rest of the day. Middle Ear and Eustachian Tube.—iMuch information can be gatliered from the examination of the membrana tymjiani as to the condition of the middle ear. As it is transparent one may be able to see fluid in tlic middle ear through it. Also note whether it is