Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 541 neiuitis ("choked disc "J, and finally atroiDhy of the optic nerve and gradual loss of sight, more or less complete; they may also be pressed on directly by tumours, either at the tract, chiasma, or optic nerve proper. They are also affected in injuries and diseases involving the optic foramina : in fractures through the anterior fossa of the skull, either from a fissure involving the optic foramen of that side, or from hasmorrhage into the sheatli of the nerve; from tumours beginning in the orbital cavity, as sarcoma and exostoses; or from tumours invading the orbit from other parts, as sarconra of the antrum or of the ethmoid cells, and large enostoses of the frontal sinus. 3. The Third Nerve (Motor OcuH).—The deep origin of this nerve is from a grey nucleus in the floor of the aqu^ductus Sylvii, and which is the continuation of the grey matter of the anterior horn of the spinal cord. It is also connected with the locus niger and the corpora quadrigemina. At its superficial origin, on the inner side of the crus, close to the pons, it lies between the superior cerebellar and the posterior cerebral arteries. It then lies in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, where it receives communications from the fifth and sympathetic, after which it enters the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure. The extrinsic muscles supplied by thi° nerve have been already named. It also supplies two muscles within the eye—the sjMncter piqnllce, and the ciliary muscle, by wliich the eye is accommodated for near objects. In looking at a near object three distinct events take place —(I) Contraction of the cihary muscle; (2) contraction of the pupil; and (3) convei-gence of the eyeballs (by the internal recti)—all accompUshed by the third nerve. In health a definite "relationship exists between these three movements, which, if disturbed, will lead to defective sight. The centre for the reflex contraction of the pupil is in the corpora quadrigemina or medulla oblongata. The third nerve may be paralysed by cold, rheumatic inflammation or periostitis, syphilitic periostitis, gummata about the inter-peduncular space and pons, disease of the posterior cerebral artery or of the internal carotid in the cavernous sinus, and abscesses or new growths in the tip of the temporo-sphenoidal lobo, pressing on the outer wall of the cavernous sinus. It is very frequently, also, a result of central nervous disease.