Applied Anatomy: 386 ligamenhmi tores, or round ligament, is a Y-shaped structure, passing from tlie two ends of the cotyloid notch to a depression in the head of the femur, 4. The Capsular. The capsular ligament is attached above to the margin of the cotyloid cavity and transverse ligament; and below—in front, to the anterior inter-trochanteric line; above, to the inner side and upper edge of the great trochanter; behind and below, to the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the neck of the bone. It consists of circular and longitudinal fibres, and, on the posterior and inferior aspects of the capsule, the fibres are almost all circular, so as not to interfere with the swinsjine; movements of the limb as in walking, and in these situations also the capsule is very thin and very loosely attached. On the anterior aspect of the capsular ligament there is a specially thickened part, known as the ilio- femoral band, or Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow. It is attached above to the anterior inferior iliac spine, and below the two limbs diverge—one to be attached to the upper end of the inter- trochanteric line, the other to the root of the lesser trochanter. The inner slip specially limits extension, and the outer slip, eversion, of the femur. There are also other specially thickened parts of the capsule — (a) The ilio-troclianterie on the superior aspect, passing from the anterior surface of the root of the great trochanter to the ilium, immediately above the anterior inferior spine. (b) The itscldo-capsular on the under surface, passing from the ischium below the acetabulum to blend with the capsular ligament. (c) The pubo-femoral ligament, a specially thickened part in front and below. By flexing the thigh upon the trunk and rotating the femur inwards, the Y-ligament is rendered lax; this is of importance in the reduction of dislocations. The centre of gravity falls behind the centre of rotation of the hip joint, and the trunk, therefore, naturally tends to fall backwards, but this is prevented by the ilio-femoral band. By this wise provision of Nature, muscular effort is not required to maintain the erect attitude, so that energy is economised. There is another part of the capsular ligament that requires special notice, viz., the cervical reflexion. This con- sists of bands of fibres which come off from the inner surfoce of the capsule, and are reflected upwards on to the neck of the femur, especially towards the anterior and loAver, and the_ posterior