Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 259 twisting the foot, separated from tlie os calcis, and the foot removed. In cases where the flajas are somewhat scanty, the head of the astragalus may be sawn off. A serious objection to this method is the fact that it leaves a loose bone at the end of the stump over which the patient has no control, and which must of necessity, therefore, cause great insecurity during I)rogression. Hancock's Amputation.—This consists of amputation below the astragalus, and at tlie same time leaving the posterior third of the OS calcis, which is turned up against the denuded surface of the astragalus. It, therefore, bears the same relation to subastragaloid amputation as that of Pieogoff does to Syme's. The incisions must extend further forwards than in subastragaloid amputation, passing on the one side to a point half-an-inch anterior to the projecting end of the fifth metatarsal bone, and to a corresponding point on the other. These incisions are'then united by a third semi-lunar incision with its convexity towards tlie toes. The flap thus marked out is to be reflected nearly as far back as the tuberosities on the under surface of the os calcis, and then a fourth incision is carried across the dorsum of the foot, just behind the head of the astragalus. Next, the posterior third of the OS calcis is divided by the saw applied to its under surface, the other tarsal bones separated from the astragalus and the foot detached. The head of the astragalus is sawn off Its inferior articular surfaces denuded by the bone forceps the vessels tied, tlie posterior third of the os calcis turned up aoainst the denuded surface, the flaps fixed, and the operation completed Ihe wound is drained from the lower angles, which are left open The alleged advantages of this operation are—1. It leaves a longer stump. 2. The greater amount of leverage afforded by the astragalus for the artificial foot. In cases of disease of the tar.sal bones it is a doubtful operation, unless one could be quite cortani that the retained bones were perfectly healthy ; and as already stated, the astragalus a.id the os calcis ar.., of all the bones, the most hkely to be diseased. I ought to mention Tripier's Amputation which is said, bv iuimR, to possess all the advantages of Ciiopai.t without any of its disadvantages. The os calcis is cut horizontally at rigM