13 Snr^^ical, Medical, and Operative. ligature of tlie internal iliac—and Lotli with success. (3) Where an aneurism has been opened accidentally. (4) Where the sac has Inirst, as an alternative to amputation of the limb. (5) In cases where the diagnosis is uncertain, as, for example, between an aneurism and a pulsating malignant growth ; a diagnostic incision is made into the tumour with the view of tying the artery above and below if aneurismal, and amputating if malignant. {h) The Operation of Anel (1710).—This operation only de- serves a passing notice. It consists of a careful dissection down to the aneurism, and then tying the vessel close to the sac, on the proximal side only, but without laying it open as Antyllus did. It is open to the same objections as those urged against the method of Antyllus (when applied to spontaneous aneurism), and can hardly be looked upon as an improvement on that method: (1) It leaves no current through tlie aneurism, and makes no provision for utilising the collateral circulation, and the clot formed is likely to be soft and loose. (2) A diseased part of the vessel is selected for the application of the ligature. (3) It is often difficult from the depth and complicated relations of the sac; and there IS a furtlier difficulty in securing the vessel, more especially as there is no certain guide to it, like the probe passed into the vessel through the sac in the method adopted by Antyllus. I ought to mention that the " methoch d 'Anel" occupies the same place in French Works on Surgery as the " Hunterian operation " occupies in English, German, Italian, and American Works—/.e., when a French Surgeon speaks of Anel's method, he means the Hunterian ojjeration. ('■) Hunter's Method.—More than one hundred years ago (1785), Mr Hunter introduced a method (Fig. 4) which revolutionised the wliole (question of the treatment of aneurism by ligature. It Avas the outcome of sound reasoning, founded upon accurate observation of the methods of his predecessors, and the causes of their failures: (1) He saw tliat it was necessary to select a sound part of the vessel on wliich to operate; he tlierefore tied the artery at sonu; easily acce.s.sible point between tlie aneurism and tlio heart, but at some •listance from the sac, wlicre tlie coats of the vessel were licallliy. (2) I[e believed tliat the clot was not an evil thing, as liitherio taught, aiul that it siiould not be interfered witli as it was Nature's