Su7'gical, Medical, and Operative. 57 TREATMENT OF INNOMINATE ANEURISM. For the treatment of innominate aneurism various methods are adopted. All oj^erative measures have, as yet, been very unsuccess- ful, the patients usually dying in a short time after the operation from secondary hiemorrhage, inflammation and gangrene of the lung, or inflammation of the pleura; and, in all probability, death has in most cases only been hastened by the operation. We have (1) Medicinal and dietetic treatment—the most trustworthy and safest method. (2) Ligature of the innominate artery itself— usually of little use, and only hastens death. It can only, by any possibility, be successful if the artery is healthy and the aneurism limited. In tubular aneurism, where the coats are diseased, it is worse than useless, as the diseased artery gives way in a few hours under the pressure of the ligature, with fatal hasmorrhage. (3) Ligature on the distal side of the aneurism (Wardrop). We may tie—(«) the subclavian alone; (i) the carotid alone; (c) both arteries, either simultaneously, or tie the carotid first and then the subclavian, after a longer or shorter interval—should the patient be fortunate enough to survive the first operation. It is probably better to tie both branches at once, as this gives the best results, and is not a more serious operation. Mr Heath has had one successful case, where he tied the common carotid and the third part of the subclavian simultaneously in 1865—the Avoman lived for four years. Excluding Mr Heath's case, and one or two other more recent cases of a similar nature, neither of these methods have been followed by any marked success, on account of the disturbance on the cardiac side of the ligature, which renders the probability of consolidation talcing place in the sac all but hopeless; and, besides, the ligature is applied so close to the aneurism that the coats at the point of application are almost certainly diseased—the danger, therefore, of secondary hajmorrhage is very great. (4) Introduction of foreign bodies into the sac, such as fine iron wire, horse-hair, or catgut, through a fine caniUa or hollow needle, after the manner of Loreta. Mr Annandale has suggested that tlie artery be compressed through a central incision, as in low tracheotomy, by inserting the finger behind tlie artery, and compressing it against the sternum.