224 Applied Anatomy: lu injury, avc nuist tukc tlicm as best we can from the healthy or least injured tissues, and in malignant disease the usual practice is to form two shin flaps from the most healthy-looking parts, taking care not to leave any muscular tissue in them. As in amputation at the hip joint, htemorrhage is one of the most serious dangers, and, therefore, the principal metliods of amputation aim at making the soft parts in the axilla, surrounding the axillary vessels, the last part to be cut through, the artery being previously grasped by the fingers of an assistant. If deemed necessary, the methods described in the operation of excision of the shoulder joint, for the control of haemorrhage, may also be adopted here. 1. Lateral Flaps of Nearly Equal Size (tlic " Oval" method).— This was the method preferred by Larrey. It resembles abnost exactly the amputation of a finger by the "oval" method, as described in a previous chapter. The two sides are cut slightly convex, so that, Avhen the operation is finished, the result is two almost precisely similar semi-lunar flaps meeting above at. the acromion process, and below at the posterior fold of the axUla— as the tissues on the inner side surrounding the vessels are so cut as to form part of the anterior flap. When the flaps are brought toaether a straight linear wound is the result. In this amputation tw°o special assistants are required—one, standing above the shoulder, compresses the subclavian artery with his thumbs or a padded key, and holds himself in readiness to foUow the knife behind the humerus and grasp the artery in the tissues at the inner side before they are divided. The second assistant places the patient in a proper position, by bringing him well to the edge of the table, so that the part to be removed projects over its edge; he also turns him partially over on the somid side, and supports him in that position by pillows. This assistant then holds the arm for the operator, who is to take his stand on the outer aspect of the limb. The arm being held in a position of abduction, the operator thrusts the point of a strong broad bistoury through all the tissues down to the bone, immediately below the acromion process, and makes a straight incision about two inches m ength cutting on the outer aspect of the head and upper part of the neck of tbe humerus. ¥rom the end of this incision he cai^ies other incisions in a curved direction on each side to the correspondnig fold of the