3G9 Siirgica/, Jlfcdical, and Operative. Symptoms—(a) The arm is lengthened about one inch, and tilted outwards, {h) There is severe pain and numbness in the hand and arm aud perhaps pain and oedema from pressure of the head of the bone on the axillary nerves and vessels, and l)y raising the elbow the head of the bone may be readily seen in its new position, (c) The circulation tlirough the upper extremity may be comiDletely arrested, or the artery may be ruptured, aud the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla below the glenoid cavity, {d) The head of the humerus is one or two finger's breadths below the coracoid process. («) Marked depression of the anterior fold of the axilla. In this case the head of the bone has remained in its primary position—downwards and slightly inwards, resting against'the anterior part of the triangular surface of the axillary border of the scapula, just below the glenoid fossa between the long head of the triceps and the subscapularis muscles. It is most frequently earned by falls on the hand or elbow. The subscapularis muscle is stretched and partly torn; the supra-spinatus is ruptured and probably also the infra-spinatus. The deltoid muscle is much stretched, hence the great flattening of the shoulder and extreme abduction of the arju. 3. The Sub-Clavicular.—This is simply an increased degree of subcoracoid, and probably due to the greater amount of force brought to bear on the limb. The head of the bone lies on the second and third ribs, under the pectorals, below the middle of the clavicle internal to the coracoid process, and the symptoms resemble those of the former dislocation. There may also be cedema and coldness of the limb from the interrupted circulation in the axillary vessels. Tlie muscles and other structures round tlie joint are much lacerated. 4. The Subspinous.—In ordinary cases of this very rare dis- location, the bone rests on the posterior surface of the neck of the scapula, the anatomical neck lying on the posterior edge of the glenoid fossa beneath the acromion. It may, however, be displaced mucli further back and lie beneath the spine of tlie scapula. Tlie axis of the limb is directed forwards and outwards, and the elbow is raised from the side and carried forwards; tlie head of the bone can both be felt and seen in its new position. Tlio subscapularis muscle is torn, and most of the other muscles round tlie joint arc 2 a