Applied Anatomy: 110 the trunk and rotated outwards by an assistant, and the fore-arm at the same time fully supinated; the operator stands between the arm and the trunk on both sides of the body. Superficial Guide.—The inner edge of the prominence caused by the coraco-brachialis, or else Ave may divide the base of the axilla into thirds, when the artery will be found to lie at the junction of the anterior with the middle third. Make an incision along the inner side of this muscle and parallel with the anterior fold of the axilla, for about three inches, into the hollow of the armpit. Cut through—(1) Skin; (2) fascia, avoiding the basilic vein should it be in the way, and expose the edge of the coraco-brachialis. After dividing the superficial and deep fascia, the median and the internal cutaneous nerves will be seen, with the artery behind and between them, or more correctly, the artery is really surrounded by nerve trunks:—To the outer side are the median and the musculo- cutaneous nerves; on the inner side, the ulnar and nerve of Wris- hera- in front, the internal cutaneous; behind, the musculo-spiral and°'circumflex. The axUlary vein lies to its inner side, and partially overlaps it. These nerve trunks form the Deep Guide, and in the midst of them the artery will usuaUy be found. Relax the parts by bending the fore-arm, and then, by means of blunt hooks, displace the median nerve to the outer side, the axillaiy vein with the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves, and the basilic vein if present, to the inner side. Carefully expose and open the sheath near the lower part of the artery, separate the vessel from the sheath, and pass the needle from the inner side, taking care not to include the musculo-spiral or circumflex nerves which he behmd the vessel. To give, shortly, the entire Relations of this part of the artery.-In front-{\) Integument and fascia, and this only at the lower part of its course; (2) pectoralis major (at the upper part), and internal cutaneous nerve; (3) inner head of median Belnnd- (1) Subscapularis; (2) tendons of latissimus dorsi and teres major; 3 musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves. On the oxder suie- 1 Coraco-brachialis; (2) median nerve; (3) musculo-cutaneous ierve. On the inner side-(i) Ulnar nerve; (2) nerve of Wrisberg; /3^ axillary vein. The median nerve has a triple relation to tins !]t of tt'artery-d) Its two heads embrace it; (2) it i.ua^^ U.. above it; (3) it is placed to its outer side. Ihis part of the axillary