300 . /pplicd A natomy : The advantages of Jordan's method are—1. The eul surface is less ; the mauner iu which the shaft of the femur is sejjarated from the soft parts only causes a superficial ■wound on the out- side of the stump : there are no surfaces as when flaps are formed (SrENCE). 2. The large nerves are cut further from the trunk. 3. The sliock is immensely diminished, i. It can he kept aseptic, as the wounded surface is further from the rectal and urinary passages. 5. Union should he more rapid. G. It may he done suhperiosteally. 7. There is no need for hurry on account of any danger from haemorrhage; there is no deep or large cut surface to furnish much haimorrhage. 8. The vessels are cut transversely, and not obliquely as in the flap methods. 9. The stump is much longer than in the ordinary flap operations, and it is more easy therefore to fit an artificial limb to it; and, shoidd the suh- periosteal plan be adopted, the stump is firm and the patient will possess a considerable amount of power over the artificial substitute. 10. In cases of doubt the Surgeon can make the vertical part of the incision first, examine the joint, and, if too bad for excision, convert it into a "Jordan," just as in Spence at the shoulder, and Cardex at the knee joint. The only disadvantage is that it is more diffi- cult and tedious to perform than the ordinary flap amputation. In JNIr Beck's hands the metliod assumes the form of the oval or " racket-shaped " amputation, which he performs thus :— The patient is placed on his sound side with his hips close to the edge of the table; the sound thigh is to be flexed as fav as possible, and secured in that position by two bandages, one attached to the thigh immediately above tlie knee with a clove hitch, the two ends of which are passed round the patient's neck, and under the arm of the same side, and firmly knotted; this 'maintains the flexed position and steadies the trunk. The other is also passed round the sound thigh and secured to tlie leg of the table, beneatli the patient's head, in order to prevent him slipping down during the operation. Secured thus, liis body is further steadied by an assistant placed opposite the shoulders; another assistant has charge of the tliigh, which he grasps above the knee and holds slightly adducted, and a tlnrd, standing opposite the Surgeon, has to grasp the femoral artery by thrustnig his hand into the wound and securing it between his fingers and