345 Siirgiar/, Medical, and Operative. branch of the anterior tibial artery. The Hap is then turned down and fixed by sutures, and thougli no doubt it seems very redundant, it shoukl not, I tliink, be curtailed. Drainage tubes arc to be inserted into the posterior angles of the incision, hence the necessity of beginning and ending the incision towards the posterior part of the two condyles, and carried Avell upwards into the highest limits of the synovial pouches. The mode of procedure in this operation should vary somewhat according to the disease present. In cases where the bone or the cartilage is principally affected, the semilunar incision should pass at once into the joint and through the ligamentum patella, all the tissues in front of the joint being turned up as a single flap; but in well marked strumous arthritis chiefly affecting the synovial membrane (" pulpy disease" of the synovial membrane) it should only pass through skin, fat, and fascia, and these tissues be turned up as a separate flap from ofl' the thickened synovial membrane and patella, the membrane and patella being dissected out en masse afterwards. The joint may also be excised by an incision straight across the front of the joint from condyle to condyle (see Pig. 68). The patella is then divided transversely, one-half turned up and the other down, the joint excised as in the previous operation. At the conclusion of the operation the two halves of the patella are fixed together by wire or catgut suture. Tliis form of incision does very well in cases where one is quite certain that the excision will not have to be transformed into an amputation, either Avhen the patient is still on the operating table, or in the near future; otherwise it should not be adopted, else the amputation will have to be performed at a mucli higher level, in order to get sufficient flap length, than it would, liad the semilunar incision been used in the first instance. After Treatment.—Various forms of splints are used ; they usually consist of a padded back splint, reaching from the fold of the nates to near the heel, and a long interrupted external splint, with a foot piece. IJut tlie best method is that devised by ])r P. ir. Watmon. It consists of two parts:—1. A suspen- sion rod of iron (Fig. 09), extending from the groin to the foot; the upper part is straight, then there is an arch over the joint, a