14 E. & 8. Livingstone, Publishers, Fifth. Edition, Revised and Enlarged, price 6s. OF lateria ledica and Therapeutics FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. By WILLIAM CEAIG, M.D., O.M., F.B.S.E., F.B.O.S.E., etc., Lecturer on Materia Medica, Edmburgh School of Medicine; and Examiner at the Royal College of Surgeofis, Edinburgh. ' As the work stands it forms a very clear and complete guide to the study of the properties and uses of the ijharmacopoeial preparations, and we can endorse thoroughly the good opinion we were enabled to pass upon the previous edition. The excellent Posological Table is very valuable, as are the hints on Prescription Writing, and the very succinct Index of Diseases with theii' Eemedies. As a compeudium of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, of moderate size, but full of information, we know few to surpass, even if to equal, the Manual before us. We have ourselves made a constant companion of the former edition, which has never failed mb.^—Students^ Joimial. ' This book contains sound sense and original information, and will prove a good pocket companion for the student.'—Medical Times and Gazette. 'Your "Manual" will be useful to me in various ways, teaching included, and I should think it will be regarded as a boon by students preparing for their examination.'—Professor Haevet, Aberdeen. ' This concise little Manual, though intended primarily to assist students attending the author's own classes, possesses several charac- teristics which have rendered it more generally popular. Special emphasis is laid upon alterations in nomenclature which might other- wise escape attention. The volume concludes with a Posological Table, a Schedule of Poisons and their Antidotes, together witli an Appendix of Contracted Terms in Common Use. It is beautifully printed, and is altogether a very handy and convenient volume for the use of students preparing themselves for examination.'—^nh.'sA Medical Journal. ' This being a fifth edition, calls for very little remai'k. The amount of condensation of material is truly surprising; useful facts are slated so briefly that, a priori, it would give the impression of a peculiarly dry and uninteresting iutroduction to a very difficult subject. The aiitbor's hope that the book would be of service to studeuts preparing for their professional examinations can surely only be realised wlieu a concise epitome is roquu-od in the few weeks immediately preceding examination,and when the student is ah-eady famihai- with the subject. —Lancet.