328 Applied Anatomy: doing the tendon of tlie extensor carpi radialis longior (I) is divided close to its insertion, into the base of the second meta- carpal bone. The two cut tendons, the undivided extensor secundi, and the radial artery are pushed out of the way, and the trapezium separated from the rest of the carpus by means of the bone forceps, entered from below upwards, cutting in a line parallel with the longitudinal part of the incision, as in this way tliere is less risk of wounding the radial artery. Tor the present, the trapezium is left in the wound, as its close relation to the radial artery, and the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which lies in the groove on its anterior surface, makes its removal at this stage of the operation a difficult matter. The hand is now to be dorsiflexed, and the soft parts on the ulnar side of the incision dissected up as far as can be conveniently done. A free Ulnar Incision (7) is next to be made, commencing two inches above the lower end of the ulna, and towards its palmar surface, and carried downwards between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulna, as far as the middle of the palmar aspect of the fifth metacarpal bone. Through this incision the rest of tlie tendons on the dorsal surface are raised. Durmg all these mani- pulations the tendons should be raised as little as possible from then- grooves on the dorsal surface of the bones of the fore-arm, or the metacarpus; this is more easily managed if the joint be kept fully dorsiflexed. The tendon of the extensor carpi iduaris (6) i.^ next cut as near its insertion as possible, and then the dorsal and lateral ligaments of the joint divided. In raising the soft parts from the palmar surface, through the ulnar incision, the wrist joint should be fully flexed, and the knife must be carried close to the ulna, so as to avoid wounding the idnar artery and nerve. The pisiform bone is to be separated froin the other bones, but left attached to the tendon of the flexor capri ulnaris; the flexor tendons are now raised from the front, till the knife is arrested by the hook of the unciforni, which must then be snipped ofl" Avith tlie bone forceps. The separation must not extend lower doM-n than the bases of the metacarpal bones, lest the deep palmar arch be wounded (Fig. G5, A). The anterior ligament of the wrist is now divided, and the bone forceps applied, so as to separate tlie carpus from the end of tlie