Applied Anatomy: 76 artery is diseased, therefore, it may press on these various nerves, causing pain in the back of the head, along the great occipital, and has also been said to affect speech from pressure on the hypo-glossal in the skull, leadiug to partial paralysis of the muscles of the tongue. II. The Thyroid Axis.—This is a short trunk which arises from the anterior and upper part of the vessel, and very soon divides into three branches—(a) Inferior Thyroid, which passes iipwards and inwards in front of the vertebral artery, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and longus colli muscle, but leliind, the carotid sheath and its con- tents, and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, the middle cervical, or thyroid, ganglion usually resting upon it. It takes a flexuous course to the inferior angle of the thyroid body, which it enters on a level with the body of the fifth cervical vertebra, the recurrent laryngeal nerve at this point often passing between its terminal branches; at first it passes vertically upwards to a point just above the " carotid tubercle," and after that it curves iuAvards obliquely to the thyroid body. If this branch be hgatured in its oblique part, as it passes behind the carotid sheath, the incision and the structures divided will be nearly the same as in ligature of the common carotid at the lower part of the neck, the necessary modi- fications being evident. As the omo-hyoid partially conceals the vessel, it must be drawn aside or divided; Avhen this is done, look for the artery between the trachea and the oesophagus on the inner side, and the carotid sheath Avith its contents on the outer side. In performing this operation great care must be taken not to injure the descendens noni, or the recurrent laryngeal nerve. In excision of the thyroid body, this vessel requires to be ligatured as it enters the inferior angle of the gland. The branches of the inferior thyroid artery are—(1) Ascending cervical; (2) inferior laryngeal branch; (3) oesophageal; (4) tracheal. It may also be ligatured hi its first or vertical portion, by an incision two or three inches in length along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid (Drobeck) ; the°incision begins about half-an-incli above the clavicle. Take care of the external jugular vein and the phrenic nerve; tlie trunk of the artery is found near the inner border of the anterior scalene. The deep guide is either the "carotid tuherrle," or the ascending cervical branch, which lies between the scalenus anticus and the