^'36 Applied Auatoiiiy. incision, the lougitudiual part beuig over the great trochanter, auJ the transverse round the bone below the great trochanter; the two halves are then turned aside, with the attached muscles, by a strong periosteum elevator. In this way the periosteum is not stripped off the upper part of the shaft to an indehnite extent, which is otherwise apt to occur. At the present time Surgeons are coming more and more to the belief that early interference is the proper course to pm-sue in cases of strumous arthritis of the hip joint; the treatment adopted is a mixture of " Arthrectomy" or "Erasion" and excision —removal of the licad of the bone, sharp-spooning carious cavities, and removal of every trace of diseased synovial membrane with the scissors, knife, and sharp spoon, carefully clearing out all caseating foci, and afterwards irrigating the wound thoroughly Avith solution of the bichloride or carboUc lotion, drying and dusting with iodoform, which seems to have a special germicide action on the tubercle bacillus. The disease usually begins in the head of the bone, at the epiphysial line; and the object aimed at is excision of the head with the least possible disturbance of parts; the incision should be as limited as possible, and the bone divided in situ— not dislocated first, as in the older operations. The incisions used are principally two in number :— 1. White and Langenbeck's Method (Fig. G6).—The patient lies on the sound side, and the diseased limb is semiflexed and adducted and a straight incision made over the head and neck of the bone, in the direction of the fibres of the gluteus maximus {i.e., in a direction from the posterior superior iliac spine to the middle of the great trochanter). The incision begins two inches above the tip of the ti'ochanter, and passes downwards for an inch and a half along tlie outer aspect of that bone, the Avhole incision being from three and a half to four inches long. The capsule is opened, the edges of the wound held aside, and the neck of the bone divided with a narrow saw, or better, Macewen's osteotome, outside the diseased point; in order to secure freer access, some split the trochanter vertically without disturbing the tendons. 2 Hueter and Parker's Method (Fig. 67).—The patient hes on his back with the hmb fully extended, and a straight mcision is made from a point immediately below the anterior superior spinous