Applied Anatomy: 420 bono, that the periosteum produced a layer of boiic oidside tlic plate, and further, proved that a bone may be regenerated after its removal, provided the periosteuui bo left. Ollikr, further, in 1867, showed that the periosteum produces bone, even when it is excised and planted beneath the skin. The sources of bone regeneration in disease or fracture are—(1) The osteoblasts of the deep layer of the periosteum; (2) the bone itself, probably from the osteoblasts contained in the Haversian canals, which sprout forth in the form of bone-producing granulations; (3) the soft tissues near the periosteum, as tendons and interosseous membranes and fascia ; and, (4) doirbtfuUy, the endosteum. Re-absorption of Bone. —Howship was the first to observe small pits on the fangs of the milk teeth during their absorption, and also on the surface and interior of any bone undergoing absorption; these Uttle spaces have been called Howslnr's foveoh". Tomes andDE ^Iorgan discovered cells lying m these foveohe, and gave birth to the theory that these cells absorbed the underlying bone; the cells in question are multi-nucleated masses of protoplasm, and have been named myeloplaxes, by Eobix, and osteoclast.-^, by KoLLiKEii. In the madder experiments, while a red layer is foimd under the osteoblasts, the bone, under the osteoclasts, is unstamed, showinc^ at least that they do not produce bone. But while the osteoclasts may be the cause of bone absorption in physiological processes, I very much doubt if they have much to do with it m Lthological processes, as in rarefying ostitis or acute inflammation if bone; here the compact tissue becomes opened out and rendered snon-y by absorption of the walls of the Haversian canals, ^ow, ii one examines the contents of an inflamed Haversian canal, the ,cell elements are found to be increased, the vessels enlarged and tortuous; in fact we find granulation tissue-masses of mdiiferen ceUs round loops of blood-vessels. But the property of gramUation tissue is to eat up everything in its neighbourhood, and hence it attacks the walls of the Haversian canals, eating them awaj and rendering the compact bone porous or cancellous. Tins is e essential process in rarefying ostitis, and it is also o^^^^^^J^ ends of a fractured bone previous to the laying down and oigan s. - tion of callus. Now compare the ditterent eilecls of mllammation on bone—(1) If it i« veru acute the bone at once dies ea ma^.c