Applied Anatomy: 28 acids for a couple of days, after wliich it is removed, stretched, and dried, and preserved in carbolic oil ready for use as required. The catgut is gradually absorbed, as the process of healing is completed, by the -white blood corpuscles or the granulations, and its dis- appearance is not accompanied by ulceration. In cases, however, of septic wounds catgut should not be used; it should be remembered, too, that catgut itself may be septic, and be the means of inducing septic processes in the wound. Other materials have also been used with success, such as the middle coat of the aorta of the ox, cut into thin strips, and stretched to deprive it of excessive elasticity; it is kept in carbolised gauze, and before use it is steeped in carbolic oil to render it pliable. The small tendons from the tail of the kangaroo are used for a similar purpose, and have the advantage of not requiring any previous preparation. In using the ox aorta ligature and the kangaroo tendons, the artery is compressed very gently and tied with a strong knot. This method is said to be specially applicable in cases where there is a serious risk of secondary haemorrhage, e.g., near large branches, as in tying the first part of the subclavian, as the internal and middle coats are not divided unless the ligature be drawn very tight, and, further, it lasts much longer than even chromic acid catgut, and is therefore to be specially recommended in circumstances when, for special reasons, the artery must be tied at a place where its coats are diseased. SPECIAL POINTS IN REFERENCE TO LIGATURE. The chief points to be attended to in the ligature of arteries are the following:— _ 1. To select a proper point for the application of the ligature, (a) It must not be too near the aneurism, because there the coats of the vessel are diseased; ih) it must not be too far away from the aneurism, for tlien the collateral circulation will be too quickly re-established through the sac and prevent the formation of a proper clot; (c) it must not be too near a large branch, ior then the rush of blood would prevent coagulation at the point of ligature, and the other processes necessary for the organisation of the clot, and would ultimately give rise to secondary hcemorrhage when the ligature separated.