Applied A natomy: 156 Ligature at the Apex of Scarpa's Triangle—The safest place at whicli to apply a ligature is about five inclies from Poupart's ligament; this poiut has, therefore, Leen called the " seat of elec- tion." This is usually well out of the way of the profunda, as this vessel has not been known to take origin lower down than four inches from the origin of the femoral. The femoral artery has been tied by Carnochan as a means of curing Elephantiasis Arabura. THE OPERATION. Position of the Patient.—He should be recumbent, his thigh abducted, flexed, and rotated outwards, with the knee bent and resting against a pilloAv. The Surgeon stands on the outer side of the limb, on both sides of the body. Incision.—Ascertain the position of any large superficial vein, by making pressure on the upper part of the saphena vein; stretch, but do not displace, the skin with the left hand; and then make an incision three or four inches long in the course of the vessel, its centre corresponding to the point at which the artery is to be tied, which must be at least five inches below Poupart's ligament, in order to be well away from the origin of the profunda (Fig. 31). This incision is not parallel with the inner edge of the sartorius, but will cross that muscle obliquely, and it must not be made too far inwards lest the long saphenous vein be wouuded, or the adductor longus be exposed instead of the sartorius. The adductor longus will be recognised by the direction of its fibres—passing downwards and outwards, whereas the fibres of the sartorius pass downwards and inwards. We cut through—(1) The skin; (2) superficial fascia and fatty tissue; (3) tlie deep fascia forming the sheath of the sartorius, which at this point crosses the artery obliquely. An assistant Avith blunt hooks now keeps the edges of the wound in the fascia apart, and the Surgeon, with scalpel and forceps, proceeds to define the inner edge of the sartorius, which is then to be gently drawn towards the outer side, and held there by a broad copper spatula. (4) Clear away any loose cellular tissue and expose the femoral sheath, and next make a small opening in it. The side of the opening furthest from the operator is then to be secured by a pair of toothed forceps and given to an assistant. This prevents the possibility of losing the opening. After this open (5) the proper