252 Applied Anatomy: upon should be the large internal tubercle of the os calcis; the heel flap should contam no muscular tissue. Should the flap extend in front of the tubercles, great difficulty will be experienced in dissecting it back over the os calcis. In raishig the heel flap the operator places the fingers of his left hand behind the os calcis (or rather below, as the foot is now held) and inserts the point of his thumb between the edges of the plantar incision. In the dissection he must keep the edge of the knife close to and parallel Avith the bone, guiding it with his thumb nail till the os calcis is fairly turned and the insertion of the tendo achillis comes into view. The nail not only guides the knife, but pushes the flap downwards, and also prevents the edge " scoring the flap." The operator then grasps the front part of the foot with his left hand, fully extends the ankle joint, and unites the two ends of his first incision by another across the front of the ankle "forming an angle of 45" to the sole of the foot and long axis of the leg " (Syme), in other words, he cuts as straight as possible across the front of the ankle, dividing all the tendons, vessels, and nerves. Mr Heath directs it to be made at right angles to the first. INIr Syme, we believe, made this incision immediately after he made the plantar one, and therefore before the heel flap was dissected back, and this is the method still followed in the Edinburgh School. The anterior flap is then to be seized by the assistant and di-awn slightly upwards, while the operator frees it a little if necessary. The ankle joint is then opened from the front, and the lateral ligaments on each side divided by the point of the knife being carried outwards and downwards on each side between the malleoli and the astragalus; the joint is best opened by a horse-shoe shaped incision with the convexity upwards, and not in the direction of the primary incision, as this avoids locking the knife against, and sawing on the neck of the astragalus. In disarticulating, the operator must be careful not to injure the posterior tibial artery, as it lies in a groove on the posterior surface of the astragalus. The foot can now be dislocated forwards, and is pressed downwards, while the tissues behind the os calcis are divided with the edge of the knife kept close to the bone, and the removal of the foot completed by the division of the tendo achillis. It should be stated that some Surgeons form the heel flap from above, after making the anterior