24 E. & S. Livingstone, Publishers, Price Two Shillings. Hand-ljook of Deductive logic: DESIGNED SPECIALLY FOR THE USE OF MEDICAL STUDENTS PREPARING FOR THEIR PRELUVIINARY EXAIVIINATION. By Ebv. DUi^CAN' STEWART, D.D., Minisic7- of Spoil, Dnnhar. It has been designed specially for the use of young men intending to study medicine and preparing for their Preliminary Examination. It IS a simple, yet able, and useful hand-book which has every prospect of bemg appreciated.'—,Scoto?ia?i. ' Brevity and simplicity are the cardinal virtues in this book because it has been designed specially for the use of youno- men mteiidmg to study medicine and preparing for their Preliminary iLxamination. A new feature in it is that not a few of the illustra- tions are medical, but the fundamental principles of logic being the same the world over, it is adapted to any other class of students. Brevity has been aimed at, but not to the detriment of per.specuitv and whatever help has been had from other writers on logic is mainly due to Jevons. As the work has been confessedly prepared for a purpose, the student is recommended not to pass over any of the questions on the several sections given at the end of the book till he is able to answer them. The questions and exercises are numerous anil searching, and fitted to acquaint the student with the likely subjects of examination.'—&te(70w Herald. ' The manual is such as to meet in every way the requirements of students. It is brief and concise, and presents all the information wanted in a clear and comprehensive manner ; while the numerous questions and exercises to be found at ihe end cannot fail to be of use.'—Fifeshire Journal. ' This little book is designed to help intending medical students over their Preliminary Examination ; and it must be confessed that it seems well fitted for the purpose. Even those who have studied larger works will find this an excellent preparation for the examination hall, in more diflBoult trials than the "Preliminary."'—Educational News. ' As an aid to those who are deficient in a requisite knowledge, th ere lias been published a "Handbook of Deductive L'igic," designed specially for the use of medical students preparing for their Preliminary Examination. The little book will be found very useful by others besides the class for whom it has been issued.'—Publishers' Circular.