503 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. serious clanger, should it reach the hmgs, is that it is apt, at a later period, to set up a suppurative form of pneumonia ("Interlobular Suppurative Pneumonia"), probably from the coagulated blood becoming septic and putrifying in the vesicles. This danger, how- ever, is not so great in excision of the upper jaw as in many other operations; still, if great haemorrhage is expected, some of the following special means may be adopted. The risk of the operation itself is small, and in this respect it contrasts very markedly with excision of the tongue, where the risk is very great and the prognosis grave. Note on Diagnosis.—If the tumour—e.^/., a sarcoma— 1. Begins in the malar bone, it pushes the cheek into a conical projection, and bulges into the mouth between the gums and the cheek. The Hne of the teeth and the palate are normal. 2. If it begins behind the upper jaw, it pushes that bone forwards as a whole; tlie line of the teeth and the antrum are normal. 3. If it begins in the antrum, it expands the walls of that cavity, bulging into the nose, mouth, and orbit, and causing a projection on the face. The line of the teeth is also irregular. 4. If it begins in the ethmoid cells, it causes broadening of the root of the nose and projection of the eye outioards, rather than forwards. Tliere will also, probably, be a history that the swelling began higher up than the antrum. Mere protrusion forwards of one eye is not so bad, but when the eyes are separated it indicates that the growth has either begun in, or spread to, the ethmoidal sinuses, and is, therefore, too far gone for operation. One plan to obviate the risks from htemorrhage is to keep the .source of the blood lower than tlie opening of the larynx, by allowing the patient's head to hang over the end of the table and sponging out the accumulated blood from time to time (Annandale)'; or TRKNDELEXiiURG's " tracliea-tampoou " may be used, or some modi- fication of it; or, as Macewen suggests, one may pass a rigid tube