190 Applied Anatomy: support of a wife and cliildreu. It behoves a Surgeon therefore, beyond all things, to keep in mind the golden rule formulated by One who Avas at once the most successful Surgeon, the greatest Teacher, and the truest Man that ever lived—" Therefore, all tilings wliatsoever ye would that men should do to yo?/, do ye even so to them." 2. Provide a sufficient covering of healthy integumentary struc- tures, Avith as little loose muscular tissue as possible. The total amount of flap length sliould be equal to one and a half times the diameter of the limb, at the point where the bone is sawn. The large nerves should be gently drawn out and cut oif short at the level of the divided bone, to avoid their being included in tlie cicatrix, causing a " painful stump," more especially as they show a great tendency to grow at the proximal end, forming bulbJikc neuromata. Tendons are also to be cut short if they project unduly, but should not be drawn out before bemg cut, as their adhesion and blending with the tissue in the neighbourhood of the scar will add greatly to the chances of procuring a mobile stump; this is very well shown in Syme's amputation at the ankle. The flaps should, as a rule, be made by dissection, and the anterior is to be about twice the length of the posterior. A very important matter is to secure a inohile stump, Avhich cannot be done with insufficient flap length. 3. The scar should be situated towards the posterior part, ami for this purpose the long anterior and the short posterior flaps arc best suited, as the bones in the thigh and leg are situated nearer the front than the back. By this means the scar is better protected from pressure and injuries, and the patient may be able to bear a considerable part of the weight of his body upon the stump j further the flexors retract more than the extensors, and this will pull up the scar still further. In the leg and thigh, when tlie posterior muscles are cut far from their origin, the flaps may be made of almost equal length, and yet, when the stump is healed, the cicatrix will be situated on tlie posterior aspect-(l) Because the bones are nearer the front than the back; and (2), in healing, the posterior muscles contract more than tlie anterior. 4 Have a free exit for discharges. For this purpose the position of the longer llap will necessarily depend on the position