Stirgical, Medical, and Operative. 515 the innominate artery, (2) Nerves—vagus, phrenic, the great cords going to form the brachial plexus, the nerve of Bell, nerve to the subclavius, and cardiac nerves. (3) il/^^'JcZes—sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid, scalenus anticus; (4) apex of the pleura and lung; (5) thoracic duct; (6) trachea; and (7) the ossophagus. The last two are not exactly behind, but they are not far from°the inner end. In excising this bone, an unportant point is to secure free access. After the bone is exposed, one of three courses may be pursued—(1) to disarticulate at the sternal end, and gradually turn the bone outwards; (2) disarticulate at the acromial end, and turn the bone inwards; or (3) divide the bone with chisel and mallet at some convenient part of its length, if possible so that the outer fragment is the longer, as that end is the most difficult and dangerous to deal with, and remove it in two parts. I have only seen this operation performed once—for malignant disease of the bone; on this occasion Professor Chiene was the operator. He exposed the clavicle by a free crucial incision, but, according to his custom, made in such a way that the four angles do not all meet at one point. The flaps were then raised, and the bone divided about one inch from its sternal end. Eound the inner end of the outer and larger fragment, a strip of bandage was tied, by which the clavicle was gradually raised, as it was freed from its surround- ijigs. The difficult part of the operation was the division of the coraco-clavicular ligament; this he divided by a probe-pointed bistoury, after which the removal of the bone was an easy matter. The inner end was then freed from its attachments, the joint opened, and the bone removed by division of the strong costo- clavicular, or rhomboid ligament. The only vessel of any size cut during the operation atos the supra-scapular artery; twigs of the superior thoracic and acromio-thoracic would probably''also be divided. In this operation great care is necessary lest any of the large veins bo cut; the great risk of this accident would be the entrance of air, and probably fatal syncope on account of the aspirating power of the thorax. The care requisite is all the greater, since the veins are most anterior. The wound'is then closed, and drainage secured from the outer angle; this is the deepest part of the wound, and at the bottom lies the third part of the subclavian artery. One must therefore be careful to