Applied Anatomy: 364 and atmosplieric pressure. The "roundness" of the shoulder is caused hy the head and tuberosities of the humerus, enveloped by the deltoid muscle; hence, when this muscle is atrophied, or the head of the bone is absent from the glenoid cavity, there is "flattening" of the shoulder; of course, the part of the bone felt through the deltoid is not the limcl proper, but the tuberosities of the humerus. The Synovial Membrane.—It is very extensive and lines the margin of the glenoid cavity, and is reflected over tlie interunl surface of the capsular ligament, covers the sides and neck of the humerus, and encloses the tendon of the biceps in a tubular prolongation, in such a way as to preserve the integrity of the membrane and exclude the tendon from the cavity of the joint. It sends (1) a prolongation down the bicipital groove for some distance round the tendon of the biceps; (2) it communi- cates Avith a bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis; and (3) very often with one beneath the tendon of the infra-spinatus. The large subacromial bursa does not communicate with it. Tlie Nerves of the joint are the circumflex, subscapular, and supra- scapular; its Arteries are the anterior and posterior circumflex, supra-scapular, dorsalis scapuhe, and subscapular. Ligaments.—1. The Capsular, attached above to the margin of the glenoid cavity beyond the glenoid ligament, and below to the anatomical neck of the humerus, on the upper part, but the lower part is attached a little Avay heluw the anatomical neck. It is ver}-^ lax; it is weakest, loosest, and least protected at its inferior part. 2. The Coraco-Humeral. This is a strong bundle of fibres at the upper and anterior aspect of the capsule. It passes from the root of the coracoid process, downwards and outwards to the front of the great tuberosity. A few fibres of this ligament project into the joint and are attached to the upper and inner part of the bicipital groove; this fasciculus is known as the gleno-humemV' ligament, and corresponds to the ligameidwn teres of tlie hip joint. 3. Tlio Grlenoid Ligament, a triangular-shaped tire of white fibro-cartilage fixed to the edge of the glenoid cavity; it deepens the cavity and is continuous at its upper part with the tendon of the biceps. Movements.—1. Abdudion with Eletmtion—{a) supra-spinatiis; and {h) middle fibres of deltoid. These only raise the arm to a right angle with the trunk, and tlie trapezius continues tin'