Applied Anatomy: 494 bandage, tlie Bavarian plaster splint, Croft's dressing, or it may be treated by the " Edinburgh box splint" (Spence's), to be described immediately. The chief objection to all immovable dressings is that the fracture cannot be examined from time to time to correct any possible error of position. When both bones are fractured, or, indeed, in any form of fracture, the most simple and convenient splint to use, and one by which perfect apposition can be secured, is that known as— The " Edinburgh Box Splint."—This consists of—(1) Two narrow pieces of board, long enough to reach from the knee to a few inches beyond the sole, so that when applied they should command both knee and ankle joints, and broad enough to pre- vent the slip-knots pressing on the leg; (2) a sheet folded a little shorter than the length of the splints; and (3) two small towels to form pads for the front of the limb. In addition to this we require slip-knots, roller bandages, padding, etc. In applying this apparatus, roll up the splints from different sides of the sheet till there is just enough room left for the leg. AVe have thus a "box," the sides of which are formed by the splints covered by the sheet, the posterior part of the box simply consisting of several layers of the folded sheet. If desired, this may be rendered rigid by introducing a strip of pasteboard between the layers of the sheet. Now bend the knee, and lay the leg m the box thus made, taking care to pad the prominences about the knee and the malleoli well. If preferred, the leg may be laid on the middle of the sheet in the first instance, and the splints rolled up from either side; this will obviate the necessity of lifting the li afterwards. The foot is then to be fastened at rigU angles io the leg by a few turns of a figure-of-eight round the ankle and splint-the bandage being carried from the inner to the outer side of the foot across the dorsum, so as to guard against any possible aversion; then lay the towel pads on the front so as to overlap at the fractured part, after which secure the splint to the leg by slip-knots, one of which is to be carried over the double pad of towel in the region of the fracture. If one towel only be used^ then the fracture cannot be examined withou irndomg al « « slip-knots; whereas, if two be used, as described above, by mp Y undoing the central slip-knot, the ends of the towels can be tmned