Surgical, Hfediatl, and Operative. 239 the tarso-iuetatarsal articulation, and cuts a flap from the inner side as far as the middle of the first phalanx, keeping as close to the bone as possible. The assistant then pulls the soft tissues as far outwards as possible, so as to bring the incision over the space between the first and second metatarsal bones, and the Surgeon passes his knife between the bones through his former incision, cuts forwards right through the ^veb, and then opens the tarso- nietatarsal articulation as in the oval method, and completes the disarticulation. A similar flap may also be raised by dissection. As in the hand, it may be desirable not to open up the tarso- metatarsal articulations, but in the case of the great toe this is not of so much importance, as it has a synovial membrane all to itself; and, besides, it is usually in cases of partial amputation of this bone that trouble is apt to arise on account of wound of the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery. In partial amputations the bone should be divided obliquely, to avoid any unseemly and troublesome projection. A probable advantage is the preservation of the insertion of the peroneus longus and tibialis auticus muscles. ^ Amputation of the Little Toe with its Metatarsal Bone.— This may be done by precisely the same methods—1. The " racket-.shaped " incision, with the straight part of the incision on the dorsum of the foot—the best method. 2. The same mcision, with the straight part along the side of the foot- objection, the lateral scar. 3. External flap, either by trans- fixion or dissection—very bad on account of the scar on the sole. The first form is the best, and is conducted on the same lines as the corresponding operation on the big toe. Partial Amputation of the metacarpal bone of the little toe lias fewer oljjcctions, and has more to recommend it, than the corresponding operation on the great toe—1. It has not a special synovial membrane to itself, hut one common to it and the fourth metatarsal bone. 2. There is no special artery in danger of being wounded. .3. It preserves the insertion of the peroneus brevis ■•md tertius tendons. I]e careful, as usual, to divide the bone "'••hquely. Tlie chief Structures cllviclecl in the foregoing amputations:— " all the operations-Thc skin, superficial fascia, plantar fascia,