331 Surgical, Medical, aud Operative. drooping to the ulnar side, two ledges of gutta-percha are fixed to the idnar side of the splint—one to support the hand, tlie other to keep the splint in proper position. RESUME of Lister's operation :— 1. Break down all adhesions by moving every joint freely after the patient is under chloroform, and then 2. Make the radial incision, dividing the extensor carpi radialis brevior, but avoiding the extensor secundi internodii poUicis aud the radial artery. 3. Separate the parts on the radial side of this mcision, dividing the extensor carpi radialis longior. 4. Separate trapezimn Avith first metacarpal bone, taking care of radial artery. 5. Eaise the soft parts on the ulnar side of the first incision. G. Make the ulnar incision. 7. Eaise the soft parts still left on the posterior aspect, dividing the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. 8. Xext raise the tissues in front, separating the pisiform bone and hook of the unciform. 9. Eemove carpus, divide the bones of the fore-arm, and, lastly, remove ends of the metacarpal bones, taking care of the deep palmar arch. n. The wrist may also be excised by a single Longitudinal Incision from the back of the radius to the ulnar side of the tendon of the extensor ossis, obliquely downwards to the middle of the metacarpal bone of the index finger towards its ulnar side (Langenheck); or, in the central line of the fore-arm behind, four inches long, commencing one inch and a half above the styloid process of the radius, and ending one inch below the carpo-metacarpal joints (Spence). The .same principles are adopted as in the previous method, and it is therefore unnecessary to go over the operation in detail. An evident di.sadvantage of the single incision is the absence of sufficient provision for drainage; aud, therefore, should this method b(! adopted, it is advisable to make an ajjorture for this purpose tlirough tiu! palmar surface of tlie arm, and stitch up tlie long dorsal incision entirely.