Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 399 it and the upper part of the tubercle is a small bursa, and a large mass of fet (the infra-imtellar pad) separates it from the synovial membrane of the knee joint. 5. The capsular, which is a strong fibrous membrane filling up the gaps left by the other ligaments^ and is strengthened by fibres from the various muscles surrounding the joint. Interior Ligaments.—1. Crucial, anterior and posterior —(a) The antero - external is attached below to the inner part of the pit in front of the spine of the tibia; above, to the inner and hinder part of the external condyle of the femur. Its direction is upwards, backwards, and outwards; it is rendered tense when the jomt IS extended, when the leg is rotated inwards, and in cases where the tibia tends to be displaced forwards, {h) The postero- internal is attached below, to tlie back of the pit behind the tibial spme; above, to the fore-part of tlie inter-condyloid hollow and side of the inner condyle. Its direction is upwards and a little forwards; and it is made tense under conditions opposite to those that tighten the anterior ligament. 2. The mni-lmiar cartilages — («) The internal forms almost a semi-circle, and embraces the ends of the external. Its anterior end is attached to an impression towards the front part of the internal articular surface; its posterior end IS attached to the inner edge of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia along with the posterior crucial ligament (V) The external forms about three-fourths of a circle, and its anterior and posterior ends are interposed between the attachments of the internal cartilage, in front of, and behind the spine of the tibia- this cartilage is more movable than its fellow and less firmlv attached to the head, of the tibia. 3. The transverse ligament Avhich passes between the two cartilages. 4. The coronary \\al ment which connects the convex borders of the cartilages wUh the head of the tibia. 5. The ligamentum mucosum, which is simply a process of synovial membrane. 6. The ligamenta alaria its inngcd borders. The following Structures are found upon the Head of the Tibia from before backwards (Kg. 76) Transverse ligament; (2) anterior extremity of internal semi-lunar cartilage; (3) anterior crucial ligament; (4) anterior extremity of external semi-lunar cartilage; (5) posterior extremity of external semi-lunar cartilac^e- (6) posterior extremity of internal semi-lunar cartilage; and (7) tlio