Applied Anatomy: 98 Branches.—(1) Hyoid, -wliicli runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone. (2) Dorsalis linguaj, which arises and ascends beneath the hyo-glossus to the dorsum of tongue. In the second method of ligature, the dorsalis lingua, is usually given off between the ligature and the parent trunk; and ligature in this situation, therefore, will not stop hajniorrhage from the base of the tongue. (3) Sub-lingual branches to sub-lingual gland. (4) Ranine, the direct continuation of the lingual, which runs forward to the tip of the tongue, and ends in the frainum linguae. To avoid this little vessel, in relieving the condition known as " tongue-tie," the prominent tight edge only of the frEe.num is nicked with scissors, and as close to the jaw as possible, any further freeing must be done with the thumb or finger nail. The ranine vein is more superficial than the artery; division, or, more probably, partial division, of these vessels has led to fatal htemorrhage in children, no doubt helped by eff'orts at sucking. RESUME of second form of operation:— 1. Make a curved incision with the convexity downwards. 2. Take care of facial vein at the outer end of the incision. 3. Open the deep fascia and hook up the sub-maxillary gland. 4. Expose the central tendon of the digastric muscle, and then— 5. Expose the ninth nerve, which will be seen higher up passing beneath the mylo-hyoid but superficial to the hyo-glossus, and often accompanied by a lingual vein, which must not be mistaken for the artery. 6. Divide the fibres of the hyo-glossus on a director from the outer edge, and then clear and tie the artery, passing the needle from above downwards. FACIAL ARTERY. The first of the incisions for ligature of the Ungual would also expose the origin of the facial. It arises from the external carotid artery, a little above the lingual, lying at first in the carotid triangle, where it is simply covered by the superficial investments of the parts (skin, platysma, and fasciic). It is then crossed by the