532 Applied Anatomy : and disease of the lachrymal sac, and, unless properly treated, inflammation and suppuration follow, which may end in fistula lachrymalis. It is also a cause of "Epiphora" or "Stillicidium Lachrymarum," trickling of tears over the cheek, or "Watery Eye." Each duct opens into the anterior part of the inferior meatus of the nose, immediately below, and about a quarter of an inch behind, the anterior end of the inferior turbinated bone, or an inch behind the orifice of tlie nostril, and about three-i|uarters of an inch above the floor of the nose; they are about half-aa-inch long, and they are narroAvest about the middle. "Watery Eye."—This condition may be due to excessive secretion of fluid, when it is known as "Epiphora;" or to some obstruction preventing the proper drainage of a normal quantity of fluid, and it is then called " Stillicidium Lachrymarum." Causes of Watery Eye.—(1) Obstruction of the nasal duct from chronic thickening of the mucous and submucous tissue, tumours and polypi of the nasal cavities and antrum ; (2) from increased secretion; (3) from obstruction of puncta or canaliculi, due to chronic inflammation or warty growths; (4) in cases where the puncta are displaced, as in facial paralysis; (5) suppuration of the sac from acute inflammation, probably following chronic thickening of its lining membrane, with increased secretion of mucus, forming a little tumour (mucocele or chronic dacnjo- cystitis), which is very apt to inflame and suppurate ; (6) chronic conjunctivitis of the lower lid, causing increased thickness and eversion of the lid, leading to displacement of the punctum; and (7) congenital narrowness of the puncta. In chronic cases the usual treatment is to open the inferior canaliculus. It is true, probes might be passed, and the opening gradually dilated, just as in ordinary stricture of the urethra; but this plan is exceedingly slow, painfid, unnecessary, and not satisfactory even when performed. The quickest and best way is to open the canaliculus, thus transforming it from a round pipe into an open gutter. After twenty-four hours rest probes are passed doAvn from the laclirymal sac into the nasal duct. Each probe must be kept in for ten or flfteon minutes (one probe at each sitting Avill usually bo sufficient) and a larger size passed every second or third day. Before passing the probe, Dr Akgyll