Applied Anatomy: 158 adlierent to it tlian is the case with most large arteries and their companion veins, so that the artery must he completely cleared before we attempt to pass the ligature, which must then be passed without using force. The vein is often rather to the inner side at this point, so that, on the whole, it might be as well to pass the needle from the inner side. Some Surgeons advise that it should be passed unarmed, and then threaded and withdrawn, as, they say, there is less risk of wounding the femoral vein by so doing. But, while the artery should be cleared completely, due care must be taken at the same time to avoid undue disturbance of the parts, lest the " vasa vasorum," supplying the coats of the artery, be unnecessarily injured, and lead to death of that part of the vessel. The crural branch of the genito-crural, the internal cutaneous and long saphenous nerves must aU be carefully avoided, as they often lie in front of the vessel. This is a very successful operation. The more important untoward accidents are-(l) Gangrene; (2) wound of the vein; and (3) secondary heemorrhage. (For the Preventive Treatment of Gangrene, see page 33). ' . , . . , 1 Gangrene is especiaUy apt to follow if the vein be injured. The best way to avoid this is to clean a small part of the vessel thoroughly with scalpel and dissecting forceps (Bell). No blunt instruments, such as cUrectors, etc., are admissible. If gangrene occurs, amputate through the lower tliird of the thigh (Spence). 9 Wound of the Vein is very frequently fatal from septic phlebitis or gangrene. Should this accident occur, the ligatui^ should be withdrawn, and a new opening made m the sheath half-an-inch higher up, and the ligatm-e reapplied there, the hole in the vein being tied longitudinally, as complete obliteration of the vein is almost certain to be followed by gangrene. 3 In Secondary Haemorrhage there are various courses open- (a)The graduated compress; (b) ligature of the external iliac or superficial femoral-this is usually followed by gangrene; (c tie the bleeding point-usuaUy the distal side; and {d) if everything else fail, amputate. , , 3 For varicose aneurism in this region perform the " old opera- tion," as ligature of the external iliac is very fatal from gangrene, secokdary hemorrhage, and pneumonia.