1 Sitrgica/, Medical, and Operative. 3o and cliest wall. Behind—Eight iDiilmonary vessels and right hronchns. To its riijht side—Superior vena cava and right auricular apiiendix. Left side—Pulmonary artery. SECOND, OR TEANSVERSE PART.—This part extends from the second right costal cartilage, passing transversely to the left, and backwards, to reach the left side of tlie body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. Relations.—It lies under cover of the left pleura, near its termination. Above—There is the left innominate vein, and the three large branches of the arch—(o) The innominate artery; {b) left common carotid; (c) left subclavian. In front— It is overlapped by the left pleura and limg, and then from left to right by the following nerves—(«) Left vagus giving off its recurrent laryngeal branch; {b) cardiac nerves to the superficial cardiac plexus (left superior cervical of the sympathetic, and inferior cardiac of left vagus); (c) left phrenic, crossing in front of the other nerves. ^e7o?y—Pulmonary artery bifurcating, the obliterated ductus arteriosus connecting its left diAasion with the aorta, superficial cardiac plexus, left recurrent laryngeal nerve and the left bronchus. -BeAzHcZ-Bifurcation of the trachea, deep cardiac plexus, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, oesophagus and thoracic duct. THIRD, OR DESCENDING PART.—Extends from the lower border of the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, to the lower border of the left side of the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra. Relations.—//i front, the left pleura and lung, and partly also the root of the lung. It lies against the vertebral column, and to its riV/Z/i side, but on a jjlane anterior to it, we have tlie cesophagus and thoracic duct, while on the left side it is covered by the pleura and lung. SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS. The general means at our disposal for the diagnosis of aneurism of the aorta in the thorax, as well as its probable position, have been divided into direct and indirect. Fortunately tliis dilfer- cntial diagnosis as to the part affected, guides the special prognosis more than it modifies the treatment. The direct moans of diag- nosis include inspection, palpation, percussion, and auscultation.