Applied Anatomy: 254 any scar will not be on the surface on which he is to walk; or, perhaps the better and more usually adopted plan, is to pass a drainage tube througb the stump transversely, bringing its ends out at "the angles where the two incisions meet. This latter plan is amply sufficient, especially if the patient be taught to lie for some time on the affected side with the amputated limb flexed at the knee and in front of the sound leg, so that the discharges may escape at the fibular angle; and at the same time we may, by properly applied cotton wool and bandages, prevent any cavity forming in which the discharges can accumulate. Should all go well the tube may be safely removed in a few days. It will be observed that the general rule, about making a short posterior flap so as to facilitate drainage, is broken in this amputation, because the heel flap, thus secured, bears pressure so much better than an anterior flap would. If the plantar incision is made from malleolus to malleolus the flap is not symmetrical, and the incision in the sole extends too far forwards, which makes it very difficult to tui-n back the flap over the prominence of the heel; and very likely before this is accomplished, irreparable injury has been inflicted on the heel flap. Pirrib saws through the tibia and fibula without disarticulating at aU. RESUME of Syme's amputation :— 1. Foot held at right angles by assistant, and sole cut made. 2. Foot extended by Surgeon, and the cut in front of the ankle made. 3 Tlie assistant again holds the foot at right angles, while the Surgeon raises the heel flap till the prommence of the OS calcis is turned and the tendo achillis visible. 4 Open the joint by a horse-shoe cut, convexity upwards divide the lateral ligaments, and detach, taking care oi the posterior tibial artery, as it lies on the astragalus behind. 5. Clear the ends of the tibia and filnila and saw, again taking care of the posterior tibial artery. 6 Examine the inferior tibio-fibular articulation and gouge it out if necessary : after this tic the vessels, close the wound, drain, dress, and apply a splint.