Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 281 not quite so broad iis in Cardjsn. In denuding the patella of its cartilage, an assistant must at first grasp it transversely with a lion forceps, and hold it A'ortically down upon the femur till the saw has made a groove for itself. After that he changes the direction of the forceps and grasps the patella vertically, but only taking a very narrow bite so that the teeth of the saw may not come into contact with the lower blade; or the operator himself may hold the ilap and patella with his left hand and saw vertically downwards. Another plan is to lay the flap and patella into the palm of the left hand and there denude it, the hand being first covered with a towel. Stokes's Supra-Condyloid Amputation of the thigh diff'ers from (Ibitti's amputation in that the femur is divided about an inch higher up. Stoke« divides the femur at least half-an-inch ahim the upper edge of the trochlear surface, whereas Gritti saws through the condyles just above the "adductor tubercle," but in both cases the jDatella is denuded of its cartilage and applied to the cut surface of the femur. Lister's Modification of Garden (a furm. of " uiodifiol cimiJar"). —He suggested this method to lessen the risk of sloughing of the large anterior skin flap in Cardex. The integuments behind are also made to take a larger share in forming the covering, and therefore it is not necessary to go so far down the limb in front, and hence it might be used in cases of injury. The incisions he advises are the following:—The limb being extended, the Surgeon stands on tlie right side and cuts almost transversely across the front of the tibia from side to side, at the level of the tubercle of the tibia, and joins the horns of this incision by carrying the knife at an angle of forty-five degrees to axis of the leg through skin and fat. The leg is tlien elevated and the posterior flap dissected up, and the ring of integument reflected as in the circular operation, dividing the liamstrings as they are exposed. The knee is next flexed, and the upper border of the patella exposed, wlion he cuts into tlio joint above it by a seuii-circular sweep of the knife. The bones are now cleared and sawn as in Garden's amputation. For the Structures divided in the three foregoing amputations, see " AmputatioTi tlirongli tlie Knee .loint Proper." (If (iourse, the section through the fcmnv must be adilnd in all, and in Chitti, section of tlic patella as well, • '