16G Applied A iiatoiny : 3. It may be ligatured in the lower third of its course l)y Makshall's plan, as it lies on the popliteus muscle, and covered by the gastrocnemius. An incision, three or four inches long, is made a little behind and parallel with the inner border of the tibia, avoiding the long saphenous vein. By cutting through tlic superficial structures and deep fascia, and displacing the inner head of the gastrocnemius backwards, the vessel may be reached and ligatured. The relation of the popliteal vein and internal popliteal nerve, both of which by this time lie rather on the inner side of the vessel (see Fig. 33), will complicate the operation considerably. This, however, matters little, as the operation is of no practical utility. Popliteal Aneurism.—Isext to the thoracic aorta, the popliteal artery is the most common seat of aneurism; this arises from many causes—(1) The amount of violent movement, either of flexion or extension, to which it is subjected, and which is specially apt to injure the two inner coats of the vessel; (2) its feeble lateral suiaport from the fatty tissue in the space; (3) its very Sequent acutely bent position, so that the blood impinges with considerable force against the anterior or popliteal smface of the vessel. ^ So great is the force that the whole leg is tilted forwards, unless it is otherwise fixed, as we see how the toe is tilted forwards at each beat of the heart, Avhen one knee is crossed over the other. The usual history is—a feeling of something giving way during exer- tion, foUowed by slight lameness, "rheumatic pains" in the hmb, coldness, and probably cedema of the foot, numbing pains in the calf and down the Hmb, and pain in the foot from pressure on the internal popliteal nerve. These symptoms are due to pressure on the popliteal vein and the internal popliteal nerve. The aneurism may either become diffused into the space, leading to gangrene ot the limb, or burst into the knee joint. It must be diagnosed from _(1) Eheumatism, and (2) from rupture of some of the fibres of the crastrocnemius. It is treated by flexion of the limb and compression of the femoral. If this is insufficient, then ligature the femoral. POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. Origin —From the bifurcation of the popliteal artery, at the lower border of the popliteus imisclc. Extent.-From its point ut