Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 479 fibres attached to it, and rotated outwards, iDrobably by the weight of the hmb and the adductor magnus; while the ujoper fragment projects forwards, usually from the same causes as in fracture of the upper part of the shaft, and is probably also tilted in this direction by the lower fragment slipping in behind it. In fracture in the vicinity of the Condyles the lower fragment is tilted backwards by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteus muscles, and can be felt deep in the popliteal space (Fig. 99), the upper end being tilted a little outwards by the tendon of' the adductor magnus; the upper fragment is drawn inwards by the pectineus and adductors, and tilted forwards by the psoas and iliacus, but in many cases it remains very nearly in its natural position. In all cases of oblique fracture of the shaft of the femur there is shortening and external rotation—shortening being caused by the contraction of the flexors, extensors, and adductors of the limb, while external rotation is caused by the external rotators being more powerful than the internal. In children fractures of the shaft of the femur are frequently transverse, and, in such cases the well-marked displacement is absent; and, m connection with fractures in the vicinity of the condyles in children, it should be borne in mind that diastasis of the condyloid end of the femur may take place—the lower epii%sis of this bone not uniting with the shaft tiU the twentieth year. Just as in the humerus, the ^reat sign of fracture of the shaft of the femur is mobility in its len-th- hx the upper part of the thigh and get some one to move the°loc^ gently from side to side. " METHODS or TREATING FRACTURES AT ANY PART OF THE FEMUR. 1. The Long Splint.—I begin with the "long splint," which IS usually named after Liston, not because it is the best method but because it will be more convenient to describe it first as the «came apparatus maybe used, but for a very diflxjrent purpose, alone with the weight and pulley; and doing so will, therefore, save repetition. In some cases, too, it may be impossible to use the weight and pulley-e.^/., where patients are cooped up in the time- honoured, but sadly defective (for the purposes of the Surgeon, and irom a hygienic point of view as well) " box-bod." For the loner