Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 61 clear air-way to the lungs is by sufficient extension (or rather over- extension) of the head and neck, over the end, say, of the operating table, at the same time tilting up the chin as far as possible. 2. When vomiting is threatened. This may very often be warded off by giving more chloroform. 3. When there are signs of cardiac fixilure. If so, stop the chloro- form and use ether instead, and also inject ether subcutaneously. Ill—RED ( = danger: stop). 1. When there is stertorous or stridulous breathing:—This is laryngeal in its cause and is probably due to paralysis of the vocal cords; this allows them to flap together, as I have already explained, and effectually prevents the ingress of air. For this, stop the chloroform, pull the tongue well forwards, and if necessary pass finger doAvn to and separate vocal cords, and raise the epiglottis, and then use artificial respiration; or laryngotomy and forcible inflation may be used as the lungs stop in expiration. Ether may also be injected subcutaneously. 2. When he vomits turn him at once on his side, and let the head hang low so that the vomited matters may pass out easily, and not pass into or through the chink of the glottis. 3. At whatever stage, when there is much strngglivg, the danger is very great. Such patients are often alcoholic, and during the struggle, especially when held forcibly down, the muscles being all contracted, prevent the outflow of blood from the aorta and thus over-fill the left ventricle leading to its paralysis; further, the blood is insufficiently tcrated, and at the same time the deep inspiratory gasps the patient takes, (j^uickly leads to over-filling of the lungs with the vapour, and rapid poisoning of the patient follows. In such cases remove the cloth for a little, and let him get the lungs well filled with air, guide but do not forcibly control his struggles,, but keep his head down. Under Red, therefore, note these three points:—Laryngeal stridor, vomiting, and struggling. Allow the patient to sleep quietly in bed till the effect of tlic narcotic passes off; do not adopt the disgusting practice of slapping the patient's brow with the palm of the hand or tapping with the finger nails in order to bring hiiu to; all you have got to do is tu rouiaiu lie.sidc him till he returns tu consciousness.