Suro-/ar/, Medical, a)id Operative. 145 oblique. Tliis incision divides the superficial epigastric artery, Avliicli must be secured at once. Then divide the tendon of the external oblique on a director, and after this lay aside the knife and complete the operation with director and forceps. Scratch through the cremaster muscle and push the cord upAvards, and after this tear through the transversalis fascia with the fingers. The wound must now be kept open by two copper spatul£e:°the internal one pulls the cord and the deep epigastric artery upwards and inwards, the outer one pulls the internal obHque and trans- versalis upwards and outwards; both also displace the lower part of the peritoneal sac upwards, as the whole operation should be extra-peritoneal. The vessel is now exposed, and must be cleared at a point an inch above Poupart's ligament to avoid the two large branches; the neecUe must be passed from the vein. As the vessel lies exposed in the wound, the following important relations must be noted—(1) The genito-crural nerve lies on the vessel; (2) the deep circumflex iliac vein is crossing it; and (3) the external iliac vein lies to its inner side. Should this method be adopted in cases of aneurism the vessel is exposed too near the seat of the disease, the deep circumflex iliac artery and vein are in great danger, as well as the vas deferens and spermatic vessels, as the outer end of the inguinal canal is opened up; and should the vessel, when exposed, be found diseased, it is impossible to pro- long the incision upwards so as to tie it at a higher point. The chief advantages, when compared with the previous operation, are—(1) That the peritoneum is less disturbed, and (2) there is less tendency to hernia afterwards. Cooper's operation is usually selected when it is found necessary to ligature the external iliac for secondary lia^morrhage after a wound or amputation, and Avhere therefore the coats of the vessel are healthy, and more especially when the abdomen is thin and flat. PECULIARITIES.—The deep epigastric may arise from any part of the external iliac between Poupart's ligament and two and a half inches above it. Not unfrequently the obturator arises by a common trunk with the deep epigastric. Branches.—Two branches are given ofl" from this artery just above Poupart's ligament—(1) The deep epigastric, and (2) tlie deep circumflex iliac.