Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 203 tlio integuiiient on the back of the haud Avell up, and tlien the operator, standing in front of the hand, seizes the finger between his own forefinger and thumb and enters the point of the bistoury immediately over the head of the metacarpal bone, and carries the incision, "laying on" the blade as he proceeds, in a convex sweep past the inter-digital web, and ends in the palm at a point just opposite tlie point at which he started. This forms one flap, and the other may be made in an exactly similar manner; or, after having made the first flap, he may at once open into the joint, pass the knife round the base of the bone and cut the other flap from within outwards. The ligaments and the tendons, etc., being divided, the finger is removed. 3rd Method —By Single Palmar Flap (Professor Chiene)— (see Eig. 35, C).—In addition to the simplicity of his method, we believe that it more nearly approaches the ideal of Avhat amputation of a finger should be than any other. It fulfils admirably the three essential conditions, viz.-—(a) To keep up the full breadth of the hand; (1>) to avoid the remotest approach to a cicatrix in the palm; and {<•) it also provides a good covering for the head of the metacarpal bone. Before, however, describing the operation, I propose to say a few Avords on the treatment of the heads of the metacarpal bones of the second and third fingers. It is usually admitted now-a-days that in those who labour with their hands irorlimeji'") they had better be left; but then there comes the difficulty of finding sufiicient tissue to cover the head and fill up the ugly gap, and even when the Avound is healed (often after tedious granulation), the cicatricial contraction leads to great deformity and much crippling of the hand. It Avas from con- siderations such as these, Ave fancy, more than for any other reason, that in tlie jiast it has been so universally advised to remove the head of the metacarpal bone along Avith the finger. But Avhat is the resulf? The arch is broken, its poAverful connecting transverse ligament divided, the hand becomes squeezed up as if by an incubus it cannot shake off, its free motions are hampered, and its usefulness permanently damaged. It is said, hoAvever, that in those wlio do not labour with their hands (" (/eiitlciiieio"), the head of the bone should bo removed, chiefly for the sake of appearance, in ortlcr tn secure a taper and shapely hand.