18 Applied Anatomy: pass yery lightly over the sac, or leave it free altogether, as we do not wish to°empty it of blood, and then tighten again as we ascend the thigh, and finally fasten it by an elastic tube. It should be applied under aufesthesia, and kept on for one or two hours; and after removal digital compression must be kept up for some time. It is to U usecl—{l) In cases where we hope to cure the aneurism at one sitting, i.e., in small and recent aneurisms. (2) Where com- pression and flexion have failed. It is not to he used—{l) Where there is any danger of the sac bursting; (2) where the aneurism is large and rapidly increasing ; (3) where there is serious venous obstruction; (4) where the aneurism is inflamed. The dangers oi this method are-(l) Eupture of the sac; (2) gangrene of the limb; (3) increase of pressure thrown upon other arteries and on the heart, especially dangerous in some forms of heart disease as, for example, fatty degeneration. III MANIPULATION.—The sac is manipulated so as to break up the fibrinous clot, and part of the broken up clot is displaced, with the intention of plugging the artery on the distal side of he aneurism- (Sir W. Pergusson). In the case of aneurism of the vessels at the root of the neck it is a very dangerous and difiicult proceedinc. and has been followed by hemiplegia, from plugging oi the middle cerebral artery. In the limbs it is less dangerous. IV COAGULATING INJEGTIONS.-This method can only be employed in situations where the blood current can be pressure above and below the sac, say for one hour at least aftci the njection, and therefore it cannot be applied in cases of innominate aortic, ox- subclavian aneurism. The dangers are inflammation and abscess, and occasionally embolism. It may be used after ally- ing EsMABCH's bandage, as in Dr Ekid's method of coi^P-ssio" and then injecting neutral ferric chloride or the fibrin ferment mto the sac. V INTRODUCTION OF FOREIGN BODIES into the sac, eg., fine iron wire or horse hair, through a small canula or Irollow needl This is supposed to hasten the formation of, and entang I fibrin of the Hood, in the same ^ ^^.^^ ^^^^^ defibrinated by whipping it with a bundle of twigs. It has used in some cases of aortic and subclavian aneurisms.