Surgical, Medical, and Operative, 393 THE BACKWARD DISLOCATIONS. 1. Upon the Dorsum ilii.—In dislocation on to the dorsum ilii (backwards and upwards), which is the most common form, the limb is shortened one or two inches, the knee is inverted, slightly flexed, advanced, and adducted, and rests against the lower third of the opposite thigh, and the great toe rests on the upper surface of the tarsus of the opposite foot; the heel is a little raised, and the thigh is flexed, and there is a great bulging at the hip from the projection of the great trochanter, which is directed forwards, and lies nearer the anterior superior iliac spine than natural. There is marked fixedness of the joint, and the head of the bone rests on the ilium, a little above and behind the acetabulum, under the glutei muscles. It is made to lie at this point partly by the force causing the dislocation, but is also pulled up by the glutei, hamstrings, and adductor muscles. Abduction and eversion are impossible, but there is still a slight amount of inversion, adduction, and flexion possible. Another symptom, first noted by Stme, is that if the patient be laid fiat on his back on a hard couch or table, the knee of the dislocated side is raised, but the patient's back rests evenly on the table; but if the knee be brought down flat on the table there is a marked lumbar curve produced, just as in hip joint disease. On pressing the fingers into the groin it will be found that the femoral vessels have lost their firm posterior sujDport and seem to lie over a hollow; when compared with the sound side, the sense of lessened resistance is very marked. The short muscles covering the joint behind are much lacerated; the ilio-psoas muscle is very tense, aiid the pectineus may be torn as well as the glutei. According to Bigelow, the head of the bone passes between the tendon of the obturator internus and the innominate bone, and finally comes to rest above that tendon ("haclcwanl dislocation above the tendon This dislocation is caused when the limb is in the position already explained (abductiou, flexion, and internal rotation), and the patient receives a blow on the back, the result being either a dislocation or a fracture of the shaft of the femur, as in miners ; it may also occur when a person is carrying a heavy weight and falls down.