Siirgiccj/, .Ifcdica/, and Operative. origin to tlio inner side of the os cakis, where it euds by dividing into the internal and tire external plantar artei'ies, Lcneatli the internal annular ligament, about half-an-inch behind and below the internal malleolus, which corresponds to the edge of the abductor liallucis. It lies between the superficial and the deep layers of muscles on the back of the leg (Fig. 31). Course.—Its course is indicated by a line drawn from a point one mch below tlie middle of the popliteal space, and in the middle line of the limb, to a point a finger's breadth behind the internal malleolus. Relations.—It is covered hij—(1) Skin and fascia; (2) gastroc- nemius; (3) soleus; (4) plautaris; (5) a tendinous arch covering it, which stretches between the flexor longus digitoruni and the flexor longiis hallucis; (6) posterior tibial nerve which crosses it at its upper part from within outwards. It lies upon—(1) The tibialis posticus; (2) the flexor longus digitorum; (3) the lower end of the tibia (this is of importance in compression). On its inner side— The posterior tibial nerve (in its upper third). On its older side— The posterior tibial nerve (in its lower two thirds). It may be ligatured—(1) In the middle third of the leg, or (2) behind the internal malleolus. 1. In the Middle Third of the Leg.—The vessel may be reached by two incisions—(fl) The Lateral inclslon (see Fig. 34, 0).—An incision, about four inches long, is made parallel with the inner border of tlic tibia and fully half-an-inch behind it, avoiding the internal saphena vein. The patient is placed in the recumbent position, his knee is to be flexed, his foot fully extended, and the lindj laid on its outer side, resting against a pillow; the Surgeon stands on the outer side of the limb. By this incision we first divide skin and superficial fascia and fatty tissue; the deep fascia is next opened, and the internal edge of the inner head of the gastrocnemius exposed, which must be displaced backwards by a broad copper spatula. The tibial origin of the soleus is noAV seen, and is to be divided along the whole length of the external incision, about lialf-an-inch from its attachment to the tibia. In dividing It, the edge of the knife must be turned towards the tibia, and at first only cut through its muscular fibres, exposing its deep tendon. Ih'u tliis is tlioroughly exposed, make an opening in it after the iiiuiiiior of o[)ciiing the .sheatli of an artery, and complete its division