173 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. is also overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles. On its inner side—(I) The tibialis anticus; (2) near the ankle the extensor proprius hallucis. On its outc7- side — (1) The anterior tibial nerve, at the upper part of the vessel; (2) extensor longus digitorum for about two inches; (3) the extensor proprius hallucis; (4) anterior tibial nerve, at the lower end. It rests on— (1) The interosseous membrane in its upper two thirds; (2) the tibia in its lower thu'd; (3) the anterior ligament of the ankle joint. The anterior tibial nerve, one of the three terminal branches of the external popliteal, winds round below the head of the fibula, between the bone and the peronens longus, lying in close relation with the bursa between the tendon of the biceps and the external lateral ligament, and then passes beneath or through the extensor longus digitorum to join the vessel. Like the radial, Avhich it resembles in many points, it may be tied in three places—1. In its upper third, where it lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, resting on the interosseous membrane with its nerve to its outer side. 2. In its middle third, where it lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius hallucis, and still resting on the interosseous membrane, with its nerve probably in front or to its inner side. 3. At its lower third, where it lies between the same two tendons, but is now resting on the tibia with its nerve once more to its outer side. Tlie patient should be recumbent, as usual, his knee should be flexed, so that the sole of his foot rests flat on the operating table; pillows, or some other support, should be placed in the angle formed by the leg and thigh, and the whole steadied by an assistant. If preferred, the leg may rest on the table fully extended and the toes well inverted. In the deeper part of the dissection the ankle must be flexed freely to relax the muscles on the anterior aspect, and an assistant should bo prepared to keeji them apart by broad copper spatula3 at the u]iper or lleshy part of the leg, but in the lower or tendinous part Idunt hooks may be substituted for the spatuhc. The Surgeon stands in front and to the outer side of the limb. 1- In the Upper Third.—To tie the vessel in its u])per third an incision four or five inches long should Ix; mndo in tlie line of tlif vessel, along tlie outer margin of ilic tiliialis anticus muscle,