Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 103 htemorrliage afterwards. Further, one of tlie veins might he wounded in the operation, and suhsequeutly give rise to varicose aneurism or aneurismal varix; or severe neuralgia might result from injury to the auriculo-temporal nerve. P'or the purpose of arteriotomy the anterior temporal is the branch usually selected. The vessel may be tied by a vertical incision an inch and a half in length, midway between the condyle of the jaw and the external auditory meatus. The vein lies behind it, and the auriculo-temporal nerve lies in close relation to it; both vein and nerve must be care- fully avoided in this operation. Branches—(1) Anterior temporal; (2) posterior iemjMral; (3) transverse facial, given off in the substance of the parotid gland, and runs forwards over the masseter muscle, just below the zygoma but above Stenson's duct, and anastomoses with the infra- orbital and facial. (4) Middle tewporal, which pierces the temporal fascia and supplies the temporal muscle. This vessel sometimes gives off an orbital branch, which runs along the upper border of the zygoma between the two layers of the temporal fascia, to the outer angle of the orbit, (5) Anterior auricular, to the anterior part of pinna, the lobule, and part of the external auditory meatus. THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. This vessel has, so far as I am aAvare, but little direct surgical interest. Its branches, however, are involved in many important surgical operations, such as excision of the upper and lower jaws, haemorrhage after the removal of teeth, etc.; and its middle menin- geal branch may be injured in fracture of the temporal region of the skull. The middle meningeal enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior; it is the anterior branch that possesses the greatest interest, from a surgical point of view. From the foramen spinosum it crosses the great wing of the sphenoid, and then enters a canal or groove in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At this part of its course its position may be indicated on the surface by taking a point an inch and a quarter behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, and an inch and a half above the zygoma. After this the autcrior branch passes upAvards anil slightly backwards to the upper margin of the parietal bono,