S/irgica/, Medical, and Operative. The metliod adopted to keep the hones in position will resemble that in dislocation of the inner end of tlie clavicle. The shonlder is carried upwards, outwards, and backwards, and then a pad of some kind must ho placed on the joint to keep the hone in its place—ij., a Petit's tourniquet, the strap of which is passed under the elbow (bent) of the same side, so as to fix the shoulder and press down the bone at the same time, and held in position by a band passing under the opposite axilla. Fortunately, how- ever, even though the bone is not successfully kept in proper jiosition, the utility of the arm is but little affected, only a slight limitation in the upward movements. 2. The acromion may be forced above the Clavicle.—This form is very rare. The diagnosis and treatment must be conducted on the same principles as the previous form. 3. A third form is said to occur sometimes where not only the acromion process, but the coracoid as well, is placed above the clavicle. Dislocation of the Scapula.—The inferior angle sometimes .slips from under the latissimus dorsi; this may also take i^lace from paralysis of the serratus magnus muscle, due to injury of the nerve of Bell, or from paralysis of the lower part of tlie trapezius. When the bone slips from beneath the latissimus it gives a "winged" appearance to the back ("wing scapula"). As one of the chief uses of the serratus magnus is for the purpose of pushing, when it is paralysed the patient can push the sound arm more forcibly and furtlier than the paralysed one. Treatment. —In cases where the angle has slipped from underneath the latissimus a broad belt must be worn to keep the inferior angle close to the chest, otherwise the arm will be much wealcened. In paralysis, either of the muscle itself or its nerve, electricity and the cndermic or hypodermic application of strychnia, and massage. THE UPPER END OF HUMERUS. The Shoulder Joint.—QlasR, Diarthrosis; Suh-Class, Enarthrosis (l)all and socket). This is the most movable joint in the body, and is more frequently dislocated than any otlier articulation. Its .qtrcngth is due to muscles, not ligaments, the bones being kept in apposition by the elasticity of the .surrounding muscles