Applied Anatomy: 410 1. Outwards.—Caused by a forcible twist of tbe foot out- wards, as ill suddenly slipping off the edge of the kerbstone, when the weak fibula first snaps, and then the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, or else the tip of the internal malleolus is torn off. (a) The Incomplete Form (same thinij as PoWs fracture"). In French works on Surgery this injury is called "dislocation of the foot hacktoards, with fracture of the fibula; " in English text-books, on the other hand, it is called "Pott's fracture, witli lackward displacement of the foot" The astragalus is partly displaced from the tibia by a rotation on its own horizontal axis, so that the outer edge of its superior articular surface is higher than the inner, and rests against the under surface of the tibia. It is always caused by indirect violence, usually from a twist of the foot outwards, or else, the foot being firmly jammed, by the body falling outwards over the ankle. The displacement of the foot is usually a double one—outwards and backwards. The fractured pouit of the fibula is from one and a half to three inches or more above the external malleolus, that is, through the upper part of its triangular sub- cutaneous surface. The foot is everted principally by the force that caused the dislocation, but also by the three peronei muscles, as weU as the weight of the limb, so tliat the foot almost looks directly outwards, the outer border being raised, and the heel drawn up by the muscles of the calf. There is a marked projection on the inner side, due to the internal maUeolus ; and on the outer side in the site of the fractured fibula, there is a depression, as the 'broken ends are forced inwards. The strong inferior tibio- fibular ligament is not ruptured, (b) The Complete Form (same as "Dumcytren's fracture"). In this form either the infenor tibio- fibular ligament is torn, or else a strip of the tibia, to which it is attached,^ is torn off, while the deltoid ligament escapes rupture. It is believed that the forcible eversion of the foot causes the outer border of the astragalus to act as a wedge, separating the lower end of the fibula from the tibia, the interosseous ligament usuaUy tearing off its attachment to the tibia. The trochlear sur- face of the astragalus is completely displaced to the outer side of the bones of the leg and drawn upwards; the internal malleolus is sometimes forced through the skin, tlius making the disloca- tion compound. There is increased breadth of the ankle, with