427 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The inner fragment seems raised, but tliis is because the outer oue is depressed; it is practically kept in its natural position by the sterno-mastoid aliove, and the pectoralis major, subclavius, and the rhomboid ligament below. In this fracture the patient cannot raise his hand to his head; he keeps the injured arm semiiiexed, and supports it with his other hand, and leans his head and body to that side to relax the muscles. The slightest movement of the slioulder causes intense pain. The special features of this fracture then are—(1) Apparent projection of the outer end of the inner fragment, (2) depression of the outer fragment, (.3) falling down of the arm, (4) narrowing of the chest, and (5) intense pain on the .slightest movement of the injured shoulder. 3. At tlie Coraco-Clavicular Ligament.—If the fracture takes place between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, there will be little, if any, displacement. This fracture is often caused by direct violence, and it comes to be a question of diagnosis of this fracture from a mere hruUe of the periosteum. In a hruise the pain is diffused and dull, there being no specially tender spot, and no sign on indirect jM-essure. In fracture the pain is severe and strictly localised to one spot, which can readily be detected by carrying the finger along the bone from the sternal side; the fender spot is situated about the deepest part of the anterior concavity, immediately above the coracoid process. Further, there will be pain at this spot when firm pressure is made on the great curvature of the bone, at some distance to the inner side of the injured point, as the pressure makes the broken ends rub against each other (the indirect method). In a bruise, as the bone is not broken, there is no pain on applying this test. It may be possible to elicit creititus on movinff the shoulder. 4. It may be broken to the outer side of the Coraco-Clavicular Ligament, when the small fragment is gradually drawn round by tlie pectoralis minor and major, and serratus magnus, these muscles depressing and rotating forwards the point of the shoulder, until the broken fragment lies at right angles to the rest of the bone. Ey this means the shoulder is narrowed, and may drop a little from the weight of the arm ; Imt, as a rule, there is little, if any, down- ward displacement of the outer fragment, as it cannot fall without the .scapula moving with it; but the scapula is .slung up by tlic