Surgical, Medical, and Opcrahve. Gl right side—pneumo-gastric, cardiac, and plirenic. It lies on a plane posterior to the left common carotid. Behind It lies ou —(1) The (Esophagus; (2) thoracic duct; (3) sympathetic and cervical cardiac branches of vagus; (4) longus colli muscle. To the inner side—{\) The ojsophagus; (2) trachea; (3) thoracic duct. To the outer side, pleura and lung. It is generally taught that the relations of tliis part are too complicated to admit of ligature. Should it be found necessary to do so, the incision and the steps of the operation resemble the ligature of the corresponding part on the right side, but great care is necessary to avoid injury to the pleura and thoracic duct. Collateral Circulation (Fig. 12).—When the first part is tied the following vessels re-establish the circulation:—1. The superior intercostal (18) anastomosing with the aortic intercostals (30) and internal mammary (31). 2. The inferior thyroid anastomosing with the superior thyroid (10). 3. By the inosculations of the vertebrals through the circle of Willis (1). 4. Internal mammary (29) anasto- mosing with the deep epigastric (28) and aortic intercostals (30). 6. The thoracic branches of the axillary (21, 26) anastomosing with the aortic intercostals (30). 6. The princeps cervicis (6) of occipital anastomosing with the profunda cervicis (11) from sub- clavian. 7. Branches from the thyroid axis going to the scapula (14, 15), anastomosing with the thoracics of the axillary (17, 21, 26), and through them with the aortic intercostals (30). SECOND PART OF SUBCLAVIAN.-Right and Left. This part of the artery lies beneath the scalenus auticus muscle, and is tlie shortest and highest of the three divisions. It may be tied in this situation, but it is necessarily a dangerous and difficult operation.—(1) On account of the depth of the vessel. (2) Its close relations to the phrenic nerve, transversalis colli and supra- scapular arteries; and (3) because it rests on the pleura and iirst dorsal nerve. On the right side it gives off one branch, the superior intercostal, and this is likely to interfere with the formation of a proper clot; on the left side it usually gives oil' no brancli, the superior intercostal arising from the first part, on the left side. Relations.—In front~{l) Skin, fascia, and platysma; (2) sterno- iaaatoid; (3) branches of thyroid axis (transversalis colli and supra-