206 Applied Anatomy: dorsal aspect of the hand, and the side of the oval towards the free surface of the hand should be made larger than the other side, m order that the scar may be placed close to the neighbouring finger. This avoids any scar on the palm or side of the hand, points of creat importance to workmen. The little finger is treated m exactly the same way, the straight part of the incision being placed on the ulnar side, or the dorsum. Mr Bell, however, in both cases, advises the use of the ordinary lateral flap method, the only difference being that he makes a specially large flap on the free surface of each finger to fold over the end of the bone. In this way there is no cicatrix on the lateral aspects of the hand. As regards the heads of the metacarpal bones of the index and little finger, the usual rule is to cut them off obliquely, either with the bone forceps or a smal saw, in order to avoid the square, step-like knob which would otherwise remain, and would probably get more than its own share of knocks. But, again, it is advised by some authorities that in the case of a " workman " both should be left. The better plan is, undoubtedly, to remove part of the bone ; it is cut off obliqiu^ly in such a way that the whole transverse breadth of the head is not removed. By this means the ligamentous connection jomuig the metacarpal bones of the index and little fingers to the other meta- carpal bones is not divided. The Structures divided are almost the same as in the other fingers. In the index fingei-, in addition would be divided the tendon of the extensor indicis, attached to the expansion over the first phalanx, with the dorsalis and rachalis indicis arteries. In the little finger, in addition to the ordinai> structures, the extensor minimi digiti would be divided. THE THUMB. No rules can be laid down for amputation of the thumb. In all cases as little should be removed and as much saved as possible, ten to half a phalanx. Each of its different segments has a com- Ite set of muscles to command it, and in this respect it diflei. tl a t'er : so that whatever is left will ultimately prove use u .