Stirgical, Medical, and Operative. 59 ou the left side, and very often on the riglit side too, but usually close to the inner edge of the scalenus). Behind—(1) Longus colli muscle separated from it by loose connective tissue, in which we find three nerves—the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, the recurrent laryngeal, and the cervical cardiac branch of the vagus. Below is the pleura and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Above, there is nothing worth noting. There are several grave objections to the ligature of this part of the subclavian—(1) Its great depth. (2) Its complicated relations; for these two reasons its ligature is one of the most difficult and serious operations in surgery. (3) Its shortness and the number of branches it gives off; it is only about one inch and a half in length, and gives off three large branches, so that its ligature is almost cer- tain to be followed by fatal secondary ha3morrhage when the ligature separates. (4) "When tied for spontaneous aneurism there is always the serious risk of the coats of the artery being diseased, so that they are unable to bear the ligature. (5) The distiu'bance both on the cardiac and distal side of the ligature render the formation of a sufficient coagulum all but hopeless. On the cardiac side there is the onward rush of blood in the innominate artery, and on the distal side there is the regurgitant stream through the vertebral, thyroid axis, internal mammary and superior intercostal. In almost every recorded case in which this operation has been performed, the l^atient has been carried off by fatal secondary heemorrhage from the distal side, on the separation of the ligature, on account of the presence of these large branches. THE OPERATION. In ligaturing the first part, the patient should be in an easy recumbent posture, with the shoulder depressed, tlie head thrown back, and the face turned to the opposite side; the Surgeon should stand in front of the shoulder on which he is about to oj^erate, and tlie corresponding arm should be Avell pulled down and placed close to the patient's side. An incision should be made transversely over the origin (sternal and clavicular) of the sterno-cleido-masloid, and anoth(!r, two or tliree inches in length, along tlic inner border of the same muscle, meeting the first incision at an acute angle. Tlie V-shaped flap thus marked out, consisting of integument with