Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 2G0 extensor cruris tilts the sharp cangle of the tibia into the anterior angle of the incision, and is, therefore, likely to interfere with the healing process. 2. Because the scar must necessarily be opposite the end of the bone, and it also extends up both back and front of the stump; hence the patient can neither bear his weight on the end of the stump, nor can he very well manipulate an artificial leg, because of the anterior and posterior sears. In the " modified circular," with anterior and posterior flaps, even though the flaps are equal, the scar is well behind the tibia—(1) because the tibia is so near the anterior surface of the leg, and (2) as the stump heals the posterior muscles contract and drag the scar still further backwards and upwards, so that the patient can bear a great part of his weight on the end of the stump. Instead of using the pure " modified circular," the anterior skin flap may be made equal to two-thirds of the diameter of the limb, and the posterior half that length. The flaps are then retracted, and the operation finished as above directed. The " modified circular" gives a good stump out of the smallest amount of material, and with the smallest possible wound, and provides an exceedingly useful limb, the patient either being provided with a properly-fitting socket, in which to put the limb, retaining the use of the knee joint, or else resting his whole weight upon the bent knee, as in the old, artificial "box lee." 4. The Old Flap Operation.—This is recommended by many Surgeons, especially in cases of chronic disease, where the muscles of the calf are much wasted. It gives a well-covered stump, with the cicatrix in front, on which the patient can bear a considerable part of his weiglit. In this operation the Surgeon stands so tliat he can grasp the limb below the seat of the amputation-on the inner side, on the right leg, and the outer, on the left. An assistant takes his place opposite the operator, and must be prepared to pull up the integument, steady and support the upper part of the liml), and retract the flaps when tliey are formed. The operator then places his forefinger and thumb on the fibula on the one side, and half-an-inch behind the inner edge of the tibia on the otiier, and tlien places the heel of his knife (on the right limb) over the outer margin of tlie fibula, carries it down- wards for a})Out an inch and a lialf, then sweeps tlio blade across