Applied Anatomy: 94 Branches.— (1) Hyoid branch, runs inwards hdoic the hyoid bone. (2) Steruo-niastoid, passes outwards across the carotid slieath to the sterno-mastoid muscle; it is important to note the relation of this little branch to the carotid sheath, as it is in the way in the operation of tying the common carotid above the omo-hyoid. (3) Superior laryngeal, pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane and supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx. (4) Crico-thyroid, runs across the crico-thyroid membrane. This little branch shoidd be remembered in the operation of laryngotomy, although, from its small size, it seldom gives rise to any trouble. Occasionally, however, it is of large size; I have seen it as large as an ordinary radial. (5) Terminal branches to the thyroid body. THE LINGUAL ARTERY. It may be necessary to ligature this vessel to restrain profuse haemorrhage from the tongue, e.g., in cancerous ulcers, or for the purpose of starving such growths, or preliminary to excision of the tongue, and in macroglossia. Origin.—From the anterior border of the external carotid, either just above or immediately below the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. Extent.—From its origin to the anterior border of the hyo-glossns muscle. Course.— At first inwards above the hyoid bone, and then upwards and inwards beneath the hyo-glossus. Relations.—In the first part of its course—from its origin to the posterior border of the hyo-glossus—it passes obliquely upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and is quite superficial, being simply cooered by the skin, fascia, and platysma, and rests on the middle constrictor of the pharynx. In the second part of its course, that beneath the hyo-glossus, it runs forwards parallel Avith the great cornu of the hyoid bone for a little way, and then ascends to the under surface of the tongue. Here it is covered by the skin, fascia, and platysma, crossed by the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscles, and sometimes also by the ninth nerve near the posterior border of the hyo-glossus, and lastly, it is covered by the hyo-glossus muscle itself. In its second part it rests on the middle constrictor and the genio-hyo- glossus muscle. Properly speaking the vessel ends, as such, at the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and its contuiuation, the raninc