Applied Anatomy: 546 the long ciliary twigs of tlie nasal nerve to the radiating fibres of the iris. The stimulus for these fibres is the abmice of light; they are also stimulated by the stimulation of other sensory nerves, e.g., severe pain dilates the pupil, and also by the venous condition of the blood, as seen in the dilatation of the pupil in dyspncea. ]\Ir Hutchinson, in his "Illustrations of Clmical Surgery," shows very beautifully the effect on the eye, produced by paralysis of the cervical sympathetic—(1) The eyeball is retracted within the orbit, probably from paralysis of the muscle of Muller. (2) The pupil is contracted in the shade, altliough it responds to atropine; the paralysis simply prevents dilatation, but does not cause contraction. (3) The palpebral aperture is apparently narrowed from the slight drooping of the upper eyehd, probably from the paralysis of some smooth muscular fibres situated there, and also from the recession of the globe. The Argyll Robertson Symptom. —By this is meant the failure of the pupil to react to light, whHe it still alters with accommodation. It is found in disease of the cllio-sinnal region of the cord (a region extending from the third cervical to the second dorsal vertebra) and is often a very early sign of locomotor ataxia. Disease in this region involves the sympathetic fibres on their way from the medulla down the cord to make their exit at the last cervical and first dorsal nerves, and thence up to the pupU. These fibres being involved, the pupil is somewhat contracted and insensible to light, but still further contracts when a near object is looked at, though the strongest mydriatic mil only produce a medivvm dilatation. GLAUCOMA. This disease is so named because of the greenish reflection observed in the interior of the eye. It is characterised, in the later stages, by great increase of the intra-ocular tension, so that the o-lobe feels like a marble in hardness, with blindness or great limitlxtion of the visual field. The premonitory symptoms are- (a) Greatly increased presbyopia, so that the spectacles must be chan-ed often; {h) intermittent attacks of dimness of sight, like a fo" in front of the eye—the patient seeing well enough m the niorn- in° but from midday onwards the vision is occasionaUy obscured ;