359 Surgical, Medical, and Opcralivc. fibro-cartilage in this joint; it is a flattened, circular disc, but thinner in the centre than at the circumference, and is attached above to the upper and posterior border of the clavicle, and below to the cartilage of the first rib and lower edge of the sternal facet, and, by its circumference, to the ligaments round the joint. In this way there are two complete joints with two synovial mem- branes. According to Mr Humphry, these two joints have distinct and separate movements—the one between the clavicle and the disc being chiefly concerned in elevation and depression of the shoulder; while that between the sternum and the disc is concerned in the forward and backward movements, the disc moving with the clavicle. It is this part also that is chiefly concerned in the respiratory movements. As the arm hangs by the side, the cavity between the disc and the sternum attains its largest dimensions and is V-shaped; when the arm is raised, it becomes slit-lilce in form and its cubic capacity lessened, and it is, therefore, this movement that causes most acute pain when the joint is inflamed or otherwise diseased, e.g., in pyajmia. When the joint contains fluid the sM'elling is best marked on its anterior aspect on account of tlie thinness of the anterior sterno-clavicular ligament. The most important Ligaments of the joint are:—(1) The anterior sterno-clavicular. (2) The posterior sterno-clavicular. (3) The inter-clavicular, passing from clavicle to clavicle across the epis- ternal notch. (4) The costo - clavicular, or rhomboid, Avhich stretches from the cartilage of the first rib to the rhomboid depression on the under surface of the clavicle. It is a very short and strong ligament, and immediately behind it lies the subclavian vein. (5) The inter-articular fibro-cartilage. Movements.— 1. To raise the clavicle (as in shrugging the shoulders)—(«) the trapezius, the levator anguli scapulas, (f) the two rhomboids, and (cZ) the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid. 2. To depresK the clavicle—chiefly gravity, and («) the lower fibres of the trapezius, {b) the pectoralis minor, and {r) the subclavius. 3. Forirard movement (as in pushing) — («) chiefly the serratus niagnus; also (//) the pectoralis major, and (c) the pectoralis minor. \. Backward moremmi—{(i) the rhomboids, and ij>) the middle fibres of the trapezius. .5. Oirrwndndion, a mixture of all the other movements.