398 Applied Anatomy: the vasti and ascends higher on the inner than on the outer side of the limb beneath these muscles (being the reverse, therefore, of the articular surfaces); it also covers the lateral aspects of the tuberosities of the femur for about half their extent, extending further back on the inner condyle. This large pouch is supported during tbe movements of the joint by the sub-crureus muscle, which is inserted into its upper part. Above the pouch there is some- times an independent bursa extending upwards for another inch, but very often it communicates with the cavity of the knee joint. The membrane also covers both surfaces of the semi-lunar cartilages, and on the back part of the external one sends a tubular prolonga- tion round the tendon of the popliteus muscle for some distance. It further surrounds the crucial ligaments by tubular prolongations, lines the whole interior of the capsule, and lastly very frequently extends into the superior tibio-fibular articulation. The Arteries are seven in number—anastomotica magna, five branches from the popliteal artery, and the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. The Nerves are nine in number — branches from the obtm-ator, from the nerve to the vastus externus, and from the nerve to the vastus internus (both from the anterior crural), three from the in- ternal popliteal, two from the external popliteal, and the recurrent articular from the termination of the same nerve. The Ligaments of this joint are very numerous, and are divided into internal and external sets. External Ligaments.—1. The internal lateral, a broad flat band, from the back part of the iimer tuberosity of the femur to the inner tuberosity and upper part of the shaft of the tibia. Beneath it pass the inferior internal articular vessels. 2. The external lateral—the long part, passing from the back part of the outer tuberosity of the femur to the outer part of the head of the fibula. It pierces the tendon of the biceps, and under it pass the tendon of the popliteus and the inferior external articular vessels. The sliort part is more posterior, and is attached below to the apex of the styloid process of the fibula 3. The posterior ligament, or ligament of Winslow, a broad flat band principally derived from the tendon of the seim- membranosus. 4. The ligamentum patelhi3, the continuation oi the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris, passing from the apex ot the patella to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia; between