170 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. broad clastic bandage, sj^irally, from the distal extremity of tlic limb to be operated ujion to the jjoint at ■\vliich the clastic band or tounu(|uct is to be applied; after applying the tourni(piet he removes the broad bandage. l]y this means the limlj is scpicezed absolutely bloodless and remains so during the whole operation. Several objections have been nrged against this plan:—(1) It is said to jiredispose to reactionary hsemorrhage, probably from some injury to the vaso-constrictor or the vaso-dilatoi' nerves, so that the vessels do not contract and retract as they otherwise would, and as there is absolutely no bleeding during the operation they cannot be seen and secured so well as in other methods. Again, one of the essential conditions for the natural arrest of htemorrhaoe is absent, viz., blood, so that the small vessels have not an opportunity to seal themselves during the progress of the operation. (2) In cases of putrid sores, or soft vascular malignant growths, it is not advis- able to force the noxious products further up the limb. (3) A\^here the elastic tourniquet is used it is impossible to loosen it a little, so as to let just enough blood down to make the open vessels visible, and give the smaller ones an opportunity of being plugged naturally by blood clot. With plenty of assistants this is no great disadvantage, but in operating single-handed it would be a serious inconvenience to the Surgeon, and risk to the patient, from loss of an unnecessary amount of blood. Scre^v toumiciuets, such as Petit's, have not this disadvantage, as they can be slackened or tightened at Avill. 2. Straight .Bistouries, narroAv and broad—narrow-bladed, for example, in amputation of the phalanges of the fingers and meta- tarsals of fingers and toes. 3. Scalpels, not too broad-bladed. '1. Cutting Pliers of various shapes, to be used in cases whei'C the bone has splintered during saAving, and in cases where it may be deemed expedient to remove the heads of the metacarpal bones. In using the pliers the fat side is to be placed next the part to be preserved. Amputating Knives of various lengths. If for transfixion, their length should bo from oiuj and a half to t^vicc the diameter of the part to be amputated. Specially shaped knives jire made for the cu'cular method, altliuugli it is not by any njcans necessary to