379 Surgical, Mcdica/, and Operative. feel the broken process. The anterior and lateral ligaments of the .joint are torn; the tendon of the triceps-aconeus, attached to the olecranon process, is very prominent and tense behind; the biceps and brachialis auticus are stretched over the end of the humerus, forming the anterior projection. The median and ulnar nerves are stretched. Treatment.— (1) Sir Astley Cooper's method:—The patient is seated on a chair-, and the Surgeon, resting his foot on the edge of the chair, places his knee on the inner side of the joint, while he grasps the wrist and bends the elbow slowly and forcibly; at the same time lie presses tlie upper part of the radius and ulna with his knee, so as to disengage the coronoid process of the ulna from the humerus. (2) Another method is by extension, counter-extensiou, and co-aptation:—One assistant holds the upper arm, another pulls slowly and steadily at the wrist, while the Surgeon manipulates the bones into position as soon as the coronoid process is unlocked. Tlie arm is then kept in the bent position and carried in a sling, and the ordinary means adopted, if necessary, for reducing inflam- matory action. As the strength of the joint (in the antero-posterior direction, at anyrate) is due to the locking of the bones, passive movement must be begun early. It juay be left quiet for three or four days, till the first inflammatory .symptoms subside, and then gentle passive movement must be begun. At the end of two weeks the patient himself may induce active movements of the joint. 2. Forwards.—This is a rare dislocation—(1) Because the long and strong olecranon process opposes such a displacement, and it can hardly occur Avithout fracture of that process; and (2) it is caused by direct violence,'such as a blow or fall on the elbow; and, for this reason again, the usual result is fracture of the olecranon process and not dislocation. The Symptoms are—(o) Elongation of the fore-arm ; (A) the marked projection of the condyles of the luimerus; and (c) the presence of the sigmoid notch in front of the arm, the olecranon process resting against the inferior part of the trocldea. The distance from the condyles of the humerus to the styloid process of the radius and ulna is increased; the tendon of the triceps is very tense. 3. Lateral Dislocations are also rare and usually incomplete, and the outward is more comnion tlian tlu! inwiii'd. Tlic inward