41 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. arch, to the right of the descending j^art; to the right, then in front, and, hxstly, to tlie left side of the descending thoracic aorta. These reLitions are to be sj^ecially remembered in cases of real or supposed stricture of the oesophagus, for both in stricture and aneurism there is marked dysphagia, and it is of the utmost importance to find out on what this depends. Occasionally in aneurism the patient has been treated for stricture of the oesophagus by the introduction of bougies, with the unfortunate and fatal result of perforation of the sac by the point of the instrument. Note.—(1) The aorta in this part of its course, it will be observed, is covered by the left costal pleura; aneurism therefore in this part of the vessel is very apt to burst into the left pleural cavity by a large rent, giving rise to sudden and fatal haemorrhage (when an aneurism opens on a mucous surface, the rent is seldom large, and death rarely so sudden as when it opens into a serous cavity). (2) The spinal column is pressed upon, the vertebras are absorbed, and the cord may suffer, causing paralysis of the lower extremities. (3) The root of the left lung passes in front of the vessel, and in the root the bronchus is the most posterior structure; hence this tube is narrowed, the lung therefore is imperfectly filled, and peculiar respiratory sounds are heard on auscultation. (4) The heart enveloped by the pericardium is also in front, and the growth of the aneurism impedes the movements of that viscus, and the disturbance thus caused may simulate heart disease. (.5) There is dysphagia from pressure on the oesophagus. (See above, p. 40, and Fig. 11.) (6) The thoracic duct is pressed on and may be obliterated, when there will be marked emaciation from the Ijmph and chyle lost to nutrition. Although the aorta in this part of its course is not tied by the Surgeon, yet, curiously enough, Nature herself can perform even this operation with success; for it is by no means uncommon to find the aorta obliterated just beyond tlie ductus arteriosus, or at tlie junction of the arch with the descending aorta, and yet the patient has survived. Tliis is very interesting from a surgical point of view, as it sliows the resources of the collateral circulation, and that it is possible to live, so far as that at least is concerned, even when the aorta is tied. According to Mr Svdney Jones, the principal communications hy which the circulation was carried on