7. 15 Teviot Place, Edinburgh. Second Edition, price 12s. 6d. THE Principles and Practice of Midwifery By ALEXANDER MILNE, M.D., Ex-Vice-President of the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society. ' The very favourable reception accorded to the first edition was well merited, the work being thoroughly practical, and very readable— not too diffuse nor exhaustive, yet containing sufficient details for all examination purposes. The Second Edition has been carefully revised and such additions made as were rendered necessary thi-ough recent advances in the obstetric art. We have no doubt that the Second Edition of Dr Milne's Manual will be more popular with'medical students than the ^rst.—Students' Journal. ' Dr Milne has contrived to condense a great amount of obstetric doctrine, both physiological and pathological, into his book.'—iarecei!. ' I estimate highly the thought, the labour, and the courage expended in the work.'—Dr J. Matthews Duncan, London. ' A very excellent and comprehensive Manual.'—Professor Gkailt Hb-witt, London. 'An admirable digest of the subject.'-Professor A. R. Simpson Edinburgh. ' This is the second edition of the handiest, simplest, and soundest of our works on obstetrics. The author is not only an honoured public teacher, whose wisdom, judgment, learning, and skill, have endeared Ijim to his many pupils, who longed to have his instructions in a more permanent form, but he is a medical practitioner of great experience and of recognised skill. Dr Milne has produced a work intended at once for medical students and for the profession, and these show their appreciation of it by taking care that it has a place on their shelves. The leading obstetricians, the medical press, and the teachers in our more eminent medical schools, all highly recommend the work for its comprehensiveness, its soundness, and its real practical lielpfulness. In fifty-two chapters, whicli are as scientific as they are simple, as gracefully written as they are instructive, and as interesting as they are imjiortant, the author covers the whole ground of his subject. His definitions, liis expositions, his instructions, are very fiue. They are lucid, reasonable, and useful. Heads of families ought to have such n work as this for their own perusal. Their knowledge of its contents would be of considerable practical importance to them. Medical students, as well as practitioners, who have not seen this splendid volume, ought to secure it at once. It is sure to please them. The volume is nicely got up, and is profusely illustrated with high-claBs engravings.'—OW/ifm Chronicle.