504 Applied Anatomy: tlirougli the glottis, after whicli the entire pharynx is tightly filled with a sponge; or, a still simpler and more efficient plan, adopted by Professor Chiene, in cases demanding such severe measures—a preliminary tracheotomy is performed, and the pharynx filled with a sponge, and an elastic tube, passing from the end of an ordinary funnel, is inserted into the inner part of the tracheotomy tuhe, and through this the patient inhales the chloroform; over the mouth of the funnel a fold of domett bandage is stretched, and on this the chloroform is dropped as required. Besides its simplicity this plan has another advantage—namely, that the chloroformist is well out of the way of the operator. Instruments required.—The usual instruments required in all major operations, also tooth forceps, a narrow saw with a movable back and a large handle, bone forceps, lion forceps, gouges, hair-lip needle or silver wire suture, retractors, chisel and mallet at hand lest they be required, wire nippers; and perchloride of iron, or the actual cautery for the hasmorrhage; solution of zinc chloride, to touch up doubtful parts afterwards; and lastly, some of the special means for the management of the haemorrhage, and the administra- tion of chloroform. The Surgeon stands on the same side as the bone to be removed in the first instance, but during the sawing of the bony points he wiU probably find it most convenient to stand alwmjs on the right side. The usual number of assistants may be made use of, and their duties require no special mention. (1) Place the patient in a semi-recumbent position, shave the parts if necessary, compress the facial artery as it passes over the lower jaw, extract the central incisor tooth of the diseased side, and then make the incision-(a) Liston's (Fig. 110). Enter the knife opposite the external angular process of the frontal bone {i.e., a little above the zygoma), and carry it in a semi-circular manner downwards and forwards to the angle of the mouth. Another incision is then made from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone down the side of the nose, round the ala, and through the centre of the upper lip into the mouth; this flap is then dissected upwards and inwards. This is the most convement incision when the tumour is of large size, {h) Bi, E-demal Flap (Fic. Ill a). Cut horizontally from the outer to the inner cauthus pf the eye, then straight down to the aU of the nose, round it