Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 199 I have seen a number of cases now, where the first phalanx, or only a part of it, had been left, and in every case the flexion and extension of the stump were perfect; and not only so, but it added very greatly to the usefulness of the hand, so that even here the rule holds good—" Save as much as possible." There is, however, one condition where, T think, it will always be found better to remove the finger at the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tion at once—even Avlien, at first sight, one might be tempted to leave the first phalanx, or even the greater part of the second as Avell—I mean in cases where the cellular tissue of the finger is much infiltrated Avitli inflammatory material, the result of whit- low, and this even when the tendons, with their sheaths and the bones, are unaffected. Should the finger be left under these conditions the patient will almost certainly return, if he be a Avorking man at any rate, with the request that the finger be removed altogether, as it is useless and always in the way. This is because the tissues as they heal undergo so much contraction, and so much new fibrous tissue is produced, that the finger is rendered rigid in spite of the muscles acting upon it, although, as Mr Duncan has pointed out, the tendons and their sheaths, in almost every case, are seen to be quite healthy when a loiigitudinal section of the finger is made after amputation. In regard to the second phalanx, however, a compromise has been suggested. The hand being held in the same position as in the first method for the removal of a terminal phalanx, the operator makes two short antero-posterior semi-lunar flaps (see Fig. .35, D). The dorsal flap is made by dissection, its length and breadtli being each equal to one-half the diameter of the finger. The dorsal flap being com- pleted and retracted, the finger is then transfixed at the base of this flap, the knife passing in front of the phalanx, and a semi- lunar flap, e(pial in size to the posterior, cut from the palmar aspect. IJoth flaps arc then retracted slightly, and the bone divided by the bone pliers at a point previously determined. The flaps, if preferred, may both be made by dissectio]i from the lateral aspects of the phalanx. In cases where the whole phalanx is removed, the tendons, both flexor and extensor, should be stitched to tlie periosteum of the remaining phalanx and to each other, in the hope that they will form new attachments, and give a movable