134 Applied Anatomy: iliac trancli (20) of tlie external iliac and nio-lumbar (11) of the internal iliac anastomosing with the lower intercostals (2) and lumbar arteries (6) of the aorta. 3. The superior htemorrhoidal termination of the inferior mesenteric anastomosing with the lateral sacral (14) and middle hemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac and middle sacral (10) of the aorta. 4. The extra-peritoneal plexus of Turner, which he describes as a wide-meshed plexus of small arteries lying in the fat outside the peritoneum. Above, it com- municates with the perforating branches of the renal arteries, small twic^s of the capsular, spermatic, colic, and pancreatic arteries, and below with the lower lumbar arteries, and with the Hio-lumbar, circumflex iliac, and epigastric branches of the iliac arteries. 5 Spermatic artery from the aorta anastomosing with the branches of the internal iliac to the ureter and vas deferens. 6. In the female, the ovarian anastomosing with the uterine. In treating aneurism of this vessel by Compression, the vessels of the kidney, the hypogastric plexus, the intestines, and the peritoneum are aU apt to be pressed upon, giving rise to the presence of blood and albumen in the urine, suppression of urme, and peritonitis. Take care that the bowels are empty, and place a soft, hoUow sponge below the tourniquet, and if the patient show si-ns of syncope slacken; vomiting, etc., may make it slip oil tlie vessel. LORETA has cured an abdominal aneurism by passmg wire into the sac through a small canula. COMMON ILIACS. Origin -From the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta at the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. Extent -rrom ts point of origfn to the lumbo-sacral articulation, where it divide, int internal aid external iliac arteries. Each — ihac . about two inches in length, but varies from ^^^^^^-^^^^^\^^ inch to three inches; the rigU is necessarily a little longer than the left because the point of division of the abdommal aorta i sUgMly to the left of the median line. The right is also som.^^^^^^^^ ar° er than the left. CoUPSe.-Its coui-se corresponds to the upper tWrd a line drawn from a point three-fourths of aji inch below Ind a ttle to the left of the umbilicus, to a point midway between he symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine.