Surgical, McdicaL and Operative. 55 sternum; iinothor, two or three inches in length, along the inner border of the right storno-mastoid muscle, meeting the other at the sternum at an acute angle. By these incisions we divide—(1) Skin; (2) platysnia and fascia; (3) sternal head and inner part of the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid, which may he divided on a director. Tliese are thrown upwards and outAvards, and then we cut through—(4) sterno-hyoid; and (5) the sterno-thyroid. Before dividing the sterno-hyoid, look out for the anterior jugular vein, Avhich lies on this muscle, covered by the sterno-mastoid. The head is now drawn well back in order to draw up the artery into the neck as much as possible, the left innominate vein, which crosses the artery, being fixed by its relations to the right in- nominate vein and the superior vena cava, does not rise with the artery. Deep Guide to the Vessel.—Trace down the common carotid, with the finger till the bifurcation of the innominate artery can be distindly felt; then (6) draw the inferior thyroid veins carefully to one side, clear the vessel with the finger and director from the surrounding cellular tissue, and ligature, taking care not to wound the pleiira; the needle is passed from the outer side in order to avoid the riglit innominate vein and right pneumo-gastric nerve, and in passing it be careful to keep its point close to the artery, in order to avoid wounding the pleura covering the apex of the right lung. Tlie veins are the great trouble in this operation, as they become turgid, and obscure the various steps of the operation: there is also tlie risk of entrance of air should they hapipen to be wounded. RESUME of the chief steps in this operation:— 1. Make the V-shaped incision and divide the integumentary structures. 2. Divide the whole, or part, of the sterno-mastoid on a director. 3. Secure anterior jugular vein. 4. Divide both sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid. 5. Draw the head well back, follow down common carotid, and turn inferior tliyroid veins, fat and glands, to one side. (1. Clear tlic vessel and pass the needle from tlie oii/cr side.