96 Applied Anatomy: artery, runs forwards to the tip of the tongue to end at the side of the frajnuui linguae. In ligaturing this vessel, the patient's shoulders should he slightly raised, the head thrown well back over a small pillow, and the face turned towards the opposite shoulder. The most trustworthy superficial guide to the vessel is the great cornu of the hyoid hone. The Surgeon stands on the same side as the vessel tied, above the chin on the right side, hut below it on the left (Fig. 17). Incisions.—To tie it in the first part of its course an Incision is made horizontal or slightly convex downwards, about two inches in length, on a level with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and extending from the body of that bone to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, its centre corresponding to the end of the greater cornu. This incision secures the vessel near its origin. Mr Annandale uses a vertical incision, following the course of the external carotid artery, and half-an-inch anterior to that vessel. An oblique incision, passing downwards and backwards over the greater cornu, may also be used; thus we may use one of three forms—horizontal, oblique, and transverse,—but in all cases the centre of the incision must correspond to the end of the gi-eater cornu. Cut through the superficial structures ah-eady mentioned, and look for the deep guide, the ninth nerve, which is usually accompanied by a branch of the lingual vein. The artery is deeper than the nerve as it has to pass under the hyo-glossus, while the nerve passes over that muscle. The ninth nerve, with the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, must be displaced upwards, and the external carotid artery backwards, by means of blunt hooks, and then, with the great cornu of the hyoid bone in view, search for the vessel in the loose cellular tissue. At first sight it might seem an easy operation to secure the vessel at this part of its course where it is so superficial, but this is by no means the case. There are tliree reasons for this—(1) Becaiise behind the vessel is the soft mobile wall of the pharynx, and, for this reason, it is impossible to get the artery fixed, and in clearing the vessel great care is necessary lest the wall of the pharynx be wounde°d. (2) Over the vessel in this region is a large plexus of veins, formed chiefly by the lingual and facial (on their way to empty into the internal Jugular), with communications from the