Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 547 (c) dull aching in the eye, forehead, and temple; {d) the pupil is dilated, sluggish, or fixed; (e) prismatic halos are seen surround- ing bright objects, such as a gas flame, the moon, etc. These symptoms may last for a variable time, and then an attack occurs, usually at night. There is intense sickness, vomiting, and severe neuralgic pain in the eye, forehead, side of nose, and temple; great lachrymation, almost complete blindness, injection of the conjunctival and sub-conjunctival vessels, and large tortuous veins are seen over the sclerotic, the corneal epithelimn is uneven and dull in appearance, and there is a great increase of the tension; a shallow anterior chamber, concentric limitation of the field of vision, and cupping of the optic disc. The attack nearly always occurs in patients beyond middle life, who seem pale and un- healthy, and look as if they had suffered much; and it must be distinguished, in the fii-st instance, from a " bilious attack." It IS usually in hypermetropes, rarely in myopes; in persons pre- disposed to this condition, one must not use atropia, as it is very apt to bring on an acute attack, and wDl certainly aggravate an existing attack. In chronic cases, the'premonitory symptoms gradually pass into glaucoma without the onset of any acute attack. The fogs in front of the eyes may clear off for days or Aveeks, but by-and-by there are only remissions, and at length it passes into a well- marked state of glaucoma. There is a very'acute form of glaucoma (Glaucoma fulminans) which may produce blindness in a few hours; but in ordinary acute cases blindness is not usually caused before eight or ten days. All the above symptoms are to be explained by the increased intra-ocular tension. This causes the hardness of the globe; the dilated and sluggish pupil is due to the paralysis of the nerves of the iris by the increased pressure, and also because the lens is forced through the pupil; the shallow anterior chamber, because the parts behind are pushed forwards; anaesthesia of the cornea, due to paralysis of the first division of the fifth, from the great pressure; the distension of the subconjunctival and the sclerotic vehis, because the pressure obstructs the flow through the vorticose veins; the intense pain is due to pressure on, and irritation of, the sensory nerves; the coloured spectra, from the pressure of