389 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP JOINT. The dislocations of this joint are various, but whatever position the head of the bone ultimately assumes, the primary dislocation, just as in the shoulder joint, is ahvays in a downward direction. The forms of regular dislocation in the order of frequency are— (1) Backwards and upwards, upon the dorsum ilii; (2) backwards, into the great sacro-sciatic notch; (3) forwards and downwards, into the foramen ovale; and (4) forwards and upwards, upon the pubes. The first two forms are the most common; in all the four forms the ligamentum teres is usually ruptured, but the ilio-femoral band remains intact. We have to notice the influence exerted (1) by the Y-ligament; (2) by the tendon of the obturator internus, as it is found in the gluteal region, on the various forms of regular dislocation of this joint:— 1. The Y-Ligament.—If this ligament escape rupture, we may get any of the four regular forms of dislocation enumerated above; if it be whoUy ruptured, the dislocation will be of an irregular form. In no case do muscles (except perhaps the obturator internus) exercise any direct influence on the displacement. In dislocation on to the dorsum ilii, and into the great sacro-sciatic notch there is marked inversion of the limb; this is because the ilio-femoral band is not ruptured, and the external rotators are powerless to rupture it, and are therefore unable, so long as the ligament remains intact, to evert tlie limb. For the same reason, in dislocation into the foramen ovale the limb is flexed. In dislocation on to the pubes the ligament is lax, and hence the external rotators are at liberty to act, and, having nothing to oppose them, produce marked eversion. 2. The Tendon of the Obturator Internus.— Bigelow has pointed out that tlic muscular body of this muscle is usually mixed with tendinous structure; by this means it acquires gi-eat strength, and when contracted acts as a powerful accessory ligament on the posterior aspect of the hip joint. It has also been pointed out by the same Surgeon that in dislocations on to the dorsum ilii, and into the great sacro-sciatic notch, the bone passes in exactly the same direction in the first instance; but in dislocation on to the