Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 31 exami^le, is included in tliu ligature as well as the artery, and note at the same time if this pressure stops the pulsation in the artery or sac beyond—this precaution is specially necessary in tying the subclavian in its tliird part. Carefully avoid in any way injuring the veins. 7. The ligature must be tied transversely round the artery, because if placed obliquely the knot tends to slacken. In tying press down the knot with the tips of the forefingers, as over pulleys, and draw the noose moderately tight so as to divide the internal and middle coats of the vessel, and then tie again forming a reef knot, or what is probably better, use the double hitch or surgical knot, i.e., put the first loop twice through before tightening. After tying a silk ligature one end is cut off close to the knot on the vessel, while the other is left lianging out of the Avound • if catgut be used, then both ends are cut off close to the knot. Methods of Holding the Knife.—(«) Z//,e a Pen: the position of "lightness and precision," the method often adopted in ligature of arteries, where the incision recpured is not of great extent, the liand resting on the neighbouring parts. (&) Lil^e the Bow of a Violin: tlie position of "nicety and precaution." This method gives a greater range of motion, but the hand must be firm and steady, as it cannot be "rested." (c) Lil:e an ordinary Dinner- Imife: the position of "firmness and strength," and u&Wl where greater force is required. In opening fascias and aponeuroses upon a director, the knife is used with reversed blade. Position of the Patient.—The patient at first is placed in such a position as to render prominent the anatomical guides to the artery—usually therefore one of extension—but afterwards, as the artery is approached, the parts must bo relaxed by flexion, so as to give the operator more room. IJefore concluding this section, I ouglit to mention tliat many Surgeons adopt a slightly different method of procedure iVoni tlic one above described:—■ 1. The knife is lield like a pen, Avliile the l:aiid rests on tlio neighbouring parts; it is made to enter tlie skin witli this inclin- ation, but is gradually made to approach tiic periicndicular as the incision is completed.