Applied Anatomy: 488 bandaged to it. Then stretch the skin and apply the long pieces of plaster so that the notches fit round the edges of the patella; the smaller pieces are next fastened on to the front of these. The points of the hooks are then stuck into these smaller pieces and screwed to the required tightness. In this plan there is Jio circular constriction of the limb; it was spoken of very higldy by the late Professor Spence. 3. Manning's Splint.—This splint acts on the upper fragment of the fractured patella by elastic, and therefore constant traction, and, at the same time, avoids circular constriction of the limb, so that the articular arteries are not compressed. It consists of a wooden back-piece, a little wider than the knee joint, and long enough to reach from the sole of the foot to the gluteal fold, and provided at the lower end Avith a foot-piece. At the junction of the middle and lower thirds is a transverse oblique slit one and a half inches long. Strips of strong plaster, two inches broad, and long enough to encircle the thigh and overlap by some inches, are attached to a calico band. The free end of this band is carried through the slit, and the strips of plaster arc open on the upper part of the splint. A piece of wood is attached to the lower part of the splint, and another piece of corresponding size is attached to a loop at the end of the calico band, so that, when drawn down and the splint adjusted, these pieces may be five or six inches apart. The foot and the leg having been previously bandaged as far as the lower edge of the patella, and the splint padded so as to leave the slit uncovered, the strapping is heated by ineans of a bottle of hot water, and, while an assistant draws down the upper fragment by grasping tlie muscles of the thigh, the strips of plaster are carried firmly round the limb from above downwards, extending from just below the gluteal fold to within three inches of the upper border of the patella. It being important that the band of calico should be kept in the middle line, the upper part of the thigh is then secured to the splint by a few turns of a roller. Lastly, elastic rings are passed over the projecting ends of the pieces of wood, on each side of the splint, so as to exercise sufticient traction on the muscles pulling on the upper fragment and approximate the fragments. In the drawing given in Ericiisen's " Surgery," the limb appears to bo lying flat; if this is the case a better phui, we