93 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. CHAPTEE VIII. BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. An Anterior Set.—(1) Superior thyroid; (2) lingual; (3) facial. A Posterior Set.—(1) Occipital; (2) posterior auricular; (3) sterno- luastoid (sometimes). An Ascending Set.—(1) Temporal; (2) in- ternal maxillary; (3) ascending pharyngeal. The sterno-mastoid branch has three possible modes of origin—(1) From the external carotid; (2) from the occipital; (3) from the superior thyroid. Thyroid Arteries.—Ligature of these arteries has been practised by some Surgeons as a cure for bronchocele, with but doubtful success. We have already referred to ligature of the Inferior Thyroid. (See page 75.) The Superior Thyroid.—This vessel is a branch of the external carotid. It is the lo^yest of the three branches arising from the anterior surface of that vessel, and is usually given off not far from its origin, as it lies in the carotid triangle, coming off just below the great coniu of the hyoid bone. The superior thyroid itself, therefore, is at first merely covered by the common investments of the parts, and at this point it may be ligatured. IMake an incision two inches long parallel with the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, but half-an-inch nearer the middle line, so that it shall lie over the external carotid artery, the centre of the incision being opposite the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, or the thyro-hyoid space, as the arteiy usually arises somewhat below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. Here the vessel, passing upwards and inwards, is quite superficial, being covered only by skin, superficial fascia, platy.sma, and deep fascia, and may be readily tied. There is a well marked venous plexus in front of the vessel, formed by the lingual, superior thyroid, and facial veins, which is the chief difliculty of the operation. After this it takes an arched course downwards, pa.ssing beneath the omo-hyoid, stemo-hyoid, and steruo-thyroid muscles to the upper part of the thyroid body.