Surgical, xMcdica/, and Operative. 47 sure about this, but in auy case it certainly can do no liarm and may possibly do some good; it is stated, however, that it predisposes to after sickness. It will certainly do harm, if the chloroforraist thinks that, because it is used, he need not therefore be quite so very careful in giving the chloroform ; whatever is given, he must never relax his vigilance for one moment, but must regard every case as dangerous, and use all possible precautions to prevent accidents. Usually the respirations cease before the heart; but sometimes the heart ceases before the respirations, as it does, normally, in the dog. The operation of tooth-piilling seems to be a specially frequent cause of sudden death under chloroform. This may arise from various causes—(1) The patient not being deeply enough under when the operation is commenced, and the pain produced causing sudden reflex inhibition of the heart. There can be no doubt that the large sensory root of the fifth nerve has intimate and extensive relations with the medulla oblongata and with the cardiac and respiratory centres there situated. If this be so, care should be taken that the patient is deeply under before the forceps is in- troduced. The temptation is merely to give them a whiif just to deaden sensation a little, but nothing could be more dangerous than this: it must be deeply, or not at all. It would probably also be advantageous to give the patient ten to fifteen grains of butyl- chloral hydrate a little while before beginning the operation, as this substance specially paralyses the sensory part of the fifth nerve, producing antesthesia of the parts supplied by it, before general an;csthesia is produced. (2) The tongue may fall back. This is specially apt to happen when pulling the posterior molars, as the forceps itself may pmsh it back. For this emergency, have the ^ toothed artery forceps ready, and pull the tongue forward at once. (3) The tooth or the gag may loosen and fall back, causing sudden spasm of the glottis. In all cases, see that the patient maintains the recumbent posture, as, otherwise, syncope may occur and induce cardiac failure. The Ri8<<s from Respiration.—It may be arrested while the heart is still beating, and this may take place eitlier suddenly or more slowly. The slow stoppage is probably due to the toxic effects of the chloroform on the respiratory centre, while the siiddm