Sicrgical, Medical, and Operative. 29 2. To liave a tliorongh knowledge of the general COUrse and relations of the vessel, the more common abnormalities, as well as tlie recognised superficial and deep guides, in order to be able to mark out the vessel's course on the surface of the body; in short, the limb or other part being operated upon ought to be tranfiparent to the Surgeon. 3. To make a free incision through the skin, and an equally free dissection down to the sheath of the artery, so as to lessen the depth of the wound as much as possible. Do not look for the artery in the first instance, but search for the various " rallying points" one after the other, and the vessel will be reached in due time. The integument is to be gently stretched, without disialace- ment, by the fingers of the left hand, and all large supei'ficial veins avoided in making the first incision; the position of any large super- ficial vein is best brought out by arresting the flow through it by pressure on the cardiac side, e.g., the external jugular by pressing at the root of the neck, and the long saphenotis by pressing a little below Poupart's ligament. A sharp scalpel should be used, and its point made to enter and leave perpendicularly to the surface to avoid " tailing." Twist or tie all bleeding vessels as you proceed, and above all things never hurry, but cut through layer after layer of the tissues covering the vessel, to the full extent of the original incision, in a calm and deliberate manner, carefully examining every layer with the eye and finger before cutting it; but at the same time avoid lah^ral di^sertirm>^ as far as possible. 4. Make a very limited opening in the sheath. Having cleared the sheath carefully from the structures covering it by means of the finger or director, take hold of it with the forceps and pinch up a small piece into the form of a cone, off the artery, and then cut into this cone by means of the scalpel, held flatwise, with its edgeaw;«y./;r;m the vessel, an<l on a plane just superficial to it. lake hold of that side of the opening in the sheath furthest fi you by a pair of IVvan's, or the ordinary toothed forceps, in or not to lose sight of the opening, and take hold of the other e,..., with your dissecting forceps and clear a portion of tlio artery just Rufhciont to pass the point of |,],o, ,,neurism hcmIIc bel<,w tlie ve.ss,.]. J ho clearing of the vessel well is one of the most important points ot the operation. It should be cleared by moans of tlie scalpel and roiii rder ed.n-e