Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 53 We may also look at this question from another point of view : the continuance of life depends on the proper and regulated action of the heart, the lungs, and the brain. These three organs there- fore form the tripod of life, and arrest of the functions of any one of them very speedily leads to the arrest of the others, so that either of the three may be the primary cause of death. Thus death may (1) begin at the heart in those rare cases of sudden and primary failure without recognisable cause, in cases of syncope, and in paralysis from over-hlliug. (2) Death may begin at the lungs from some impediment to the entrance of air, as falling back of the tongue, closing of the glottis from paralysis, or spasm of the glottis from the entrance of vomited matters or blood. (3) Death may begin at the brain from over-dose, gradually poisoning the respiratory and cardiac centres, or from a sudden stimulation of the inhibitory centre bringing the heart to a stand-still in diastole; a similar cojidition may also be caused by strong mental emotions. In syncope, the brain is only affected secondarily, because, as the heart has stopped or is very weak, it is deprived of its proper supply of blood. INNOMINATE ARTERY. This artery has also been named Brachio-Cephalic, from its being distributed to the aim and head. Aneurism of this vessel is extremely difficult to diagnose with certainty, as indeed are all aneurisms at the root of the neck. Many cases diagnosed as aneurism of the innominate during life, have been discovered after death, by the more perfect light of the post-mortem room, to be aneurism of the arch of the aorta. Aneurism of the innominate forms a pulsating swelling behind the sternum, or perhaps more frequently situated on the tracheal side of the right sterno-mastoid muscle, filling up the episternal notch, and giving rise to certain special symptoms, chiefly from pressure of the tumour on neigh- bouring structures. (1) The pulse on the affected side is small, feeble, and delayed, and so is the pulsation in the right carotid. (2) The superficial veins of the right side of the neck and face, and of tlie right arm, are enlarged, and hence the a'dema of the riglit eyelid and arm. (.3) Tlierc are dull aching pains (or they may be sharp and shooting) from pressure on, and irritation of, the cervical