218 Applied A natomy : and (d) posterior interosseous. 4. Nerves — correspond to and accompany the arteries — (a) The radial, (h) ulnar, (c) anterior interosseous, (d) posterior interosseous, and (e) median. 5. Radius and ulna and interosseous membrane (Fig. 41). AMPUTATION THROUGH THE ELBOW JOINT. 1. This is usually accomplished by cutting a long flap from the anterior aspect of the upper third of the fore-arm and a small one posteriorly. It is seldom performed, because it is rarely possible to get sufficient sound texture to cover the large condyloid end of the humerus; the flaps, further, require to be specially long, because the articular surface of the humerus projects so far beyond the muscular attachments. The upper arm is to be well abducted and held by an assistant, the elbow joint flexed almost to a right angle ; and at the same time the skin is to be Avell drawn up, especially when making the posterior incision. The Surgeon stands on the right side of the arm on both sides of the body, if he make the flaps by dissection—which is the better method—but if he is to transfix then he stands within the arm, when amputating on the right side; but on the outside when amputating the left arm. The line of articulation of the elbow joint is oblique from without downwards and inwards, and, therefore, the knife must not be passed straight across the arm, or else the operator will find that the tissues will not cover up the internal condyle. The tissues being held well forward by the left hand, the operator then trans- fixes^'the limb in a line, extending from a little below the level of the external condyle of the humerus to a point at least an inch below that level on the inner side of the arm. On the left arm the point of the knife is entered at the outer end of tliis line, but m the right arm it is entered at its inner end. A broad flap, three or four inches in length, is then made, the knife being brought out sharply at the finish, to cut the vessels and nerves transversely, and give the end of the flap a somewhat square form. The flap is held up by an assistant, the fore-arm flexed, and the skin behind drawn tightly up, and the points of transfixion connected behind by a semi-lunar incision through the integumentary structures, so as to form a short flap, and probably also at the same time severing the connections of the radius. The ulna is then set free by division of