Applied A natoiny : 444 The lower end of tlie upper fragment is tilted forwards, Ibrmiug a prominence in front, aboi:e the crease in front of the elbow joint (in dislocation of both bones backwards the prominence is beluw this crease). In fracture, also, the distance between the acromion jn-ocess and the condyles is lessened, but not so in dislocation. So also the mobility, crepitus, and the fact that the deformity is easily reduced by extension, and the absence of any change in the rela- tive positions of the various bony points around the joint, should prevent the student mistaking this accident for dislocation of both bones backwards. The fracture is transverse from side to side and oblique from behind downwards and forwards; the muscles displacing the lower fragment are the triceps, biceps, and brachialis auticus. The median and ubiar nerves are apt to be injured. Treatment.—Set the bones by extension of the arm and fore- arm, and press the lower end of the humerus backwards and tbc lower fragment forwards, and then bend the elbow to an acute angle. In this way the triceps behind acts as a posterior splint, and keeps the lower fragment pressed forward; next, place a pad of cotton wool in the bend to exert counter-pressure, and keep the lower end of the upper fragment backward. The elbow is then to be bandaged by successive divergent figures-of-eight sufficient to secure it in this position, and the arm then carried in a sling midway between pronation and supination, or else bound firmly to the trunlv. Begin gentle passive movement early; the seat of the fracture can be secured between the fingers and thumb of the one hand, while the other moves the fore-arm. Being near the spongy end of the bone there is but little danger of non-union. Fractures of the Condyles. —Fractures of the condyles are usually caused by direct violence, such as falls or blows, or from muscular action. The inner one is more often fractured, and the detached piece (when the " epicondyle " alone is broken) is carried downwards and outwards by the muscles attached to it. The signs are pain, impairment of motion, mobility of tlie fragment, and crep- itus. In cases where the articular surface is involved in fractures at the lower end of the humerus, they are almost always foUowed by some permanent damage to the joint, unless very great care be exercised in their diagnosis and after treatment. The joint may be involved by fracture of cither condyle, or transverse fracture