Surgical,'Medical, and Operative. 19 VI. GALVANO-PUNCTURE (Dr John Duncan).—This may be used in some cases of internal aneurism, or aneurism at the root of the neck where other oi^erations are contra-indicated. At the + polo the clot is hard, small, and firm, oxygen is set free, iron salts are produced, and the fluid round the needle has an acid reaction. At the — pole the clot is soft, loose, large and frothy, hydrogen is set free, and the fluid round the electrode has an alkaline reaction, caustic potash being produced; although the clot produced is not so firm as that at the positive pole, its effect in cauterising the tissues is much more marked. Both poles may be introduced into the sac at some little distance from each other, or the + pole alone may bo inserted, while the other pole is made to rest on a broad, flat, moist sponge, on some other part of the body. In this way the tissues near the — pole are not cauterised, as the broad sponge forms, as it were, a wide door through which the electricity can pass under low pressure, just like the broad copper plate Avhich should always form the ground termination of a lightning conductor. The needles should be insulated almost to the very point. Use a weak continuous current for ten or twenty minutes at each sitting. The same precautions must be adopted as in the introduction of coagulating injections, lest it give rise to fatal embolism. The objections to its use are—(1) That it only produces a soft coagulum, which is apt to melt, and the cure is thus rendered uncertain; (2) it is liable to set up severe inflammation of the sac and its contents; (3) the needles may produce eschars at the points of their insertion, and thus give rise to secondary hfcmorrhage. In the treatment of aneurismal varix, operation is seldom called for, as tlierc is no true aneurism, and the disease has but httlc tendency to spread. It is chiefly a dilatation of veins, and it rarely tends to rupture or ulcerate — except in the lower ex- trciriity where it may extend and occasionally ruptures, giving rise to fatal hemorrhage, in the same way that varicose' veins occasionally do. This condition may exist for the greater part of a hfc-tirae with but little change, especially in the upper extremity; and the rule is that if it is not advancing it should be left alone, so far as any operative measures are concerned. All that recpiires to be done is to give support to the distended vessels by JVrartm'.s bandage, elastic or laced stockings, etc. The dillerent