Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 413 of the head, as well as the saddle-shaped articular surface. This dislocation is usually caused by a fall or twist on the extended foot; it is very often compound. 2. Backwards.—This is caused by falls or twists on the flexed foot; it is rare. There is a hard prominence felt just above the heel, between the tendo achillis and the malleoli. The foot seems shorter, and there is a prominence in front caused by the ends of the tibia and fibula. 3. Lateral.—If complete, must always be compound. If to the outer side, the foot is turned inwards, and there is a great projection of the external malleolus. If to the inner side, the appearances are reversed. 4. Version.—A rotation of the astragalus on its horizontal or vertical axis. The history of severe injury, and the loss of movement must guide. To reduce, give chloroform and attempt reduction as in the previous dislocations, by flexing the leg on the thigh, extending the foot, and then by extension, counter- extension, and manipulation, forcing the bone back to its place. It may be advisable to divide the tendo achiUis or any other tmse tendon, such as the posterior tibial. In impossible cases, put up in the best position, wait and watch, and act accordingly. Should the skin threaten to slough over the head of the bone, it must be excised. Do not be in too great a hurry to amputate. Subastragaloid Dislocations. —These are dislocations at the calcaneo-talo-scaphoid articulation. The astragalus maintains its normal relations with the tibia and fibula, whilst the rest of the foot is partially or completely disarticulated from it; the malleoli are not so depressed as in dislocation of the astragalus, nor is the rigidity of the joint so great. The foot may thus be displaced forwards, backwards, or laterally; the usual form is backwards, from a strain or twist. It is seldom, however, directly back- wards ; the foot is usually at the same time twisted outwards or inwards. If backwards and outwards, the foot is everted and abducted, the sole looks outwards, and there is great prominence of the heel; the inner malleolus and head of the asti'agalus are prominent, but tlio outer malleolus i.^ not .so prominent.