E. & S. Livingstone, Publishers, Edinburgh. 5 Price £2 : 2s.; Eoyal Folio, Cloth. Illustrated by 14 Coloured Plates and 33 Woodcuts. THE TOPOGEAPHIOAIANATOIY OP THE CHILD. By JOHNSON SYMINGTON, M.D., F.R.S,E., F.R.O.S.E.,^ Lecturer on Anatomy, School of Medicine, Edinburgh. ' This magnificent work forms one of the most important and most valuable of the recent contributions to human anatomy. Of the ex- cellence and fidelity of the Plates it is impossible to speak too highly. Dr Symington's book abounds in original material. It is a work that no anatomist can afford to overlook. It adds materially to our know- ledge of the most practical branch of anatomy, and is a credit to modern scientific research.'—International Journal of the Medical Sciences. ' There is scarcely a page of this book but corrects some common error or throws new light on anatomical relations as they occur in the cbUd. The numerous references at the bottom of each page testify to the painstaking care with which the author has studied the subject, as well as displaying a praiseworthy anxiety to give full credit to all fellow-workers in the same field. We must not omit to express our high appreciation of the clearness, accm-acy, and artistic finish of the coloured Plates.'—Glasgow Medical Journal. ' Dr Symington's work is one of the most valuable contributions to the literature of Sectional Anatomy; and is one of the most creditable pieces of original research in this department that have been produced in Britain within the last few years. He has illustrated the topography of a number of parts which are of the deepest interest to the practical surgeon and physician as well as to the anatomist.'—Practitioner. ' The book before us is probably one of the most important con- tributions to our luiowledge of human Anatomy that the Edinburgh School has furnished for many years; and Dr Symington may be con- gratulated on the completion of a work of such sterling worth. The exectition of the Plates is excellent, and gives evidence of care no less than of artistic skill.'—Edinburgh Medical Journal. ' Too much praise cannot bo bestowed upon the author for the obvious care and industry with which he has pursued his investigation, and the accuracy and fidelity with which he has reproduced its results.'—Lancet. ' Dr Symington is so well known as a popular and successful extra- mural lecturer, and as an honest, conscientious, and original worker in his own department, that we need only congratulate him on the appearance of a volume which will not only establish and extend his own reputation, but will show others, what it is most important for the continued eminence of the Edinburgh Schools should bo shown, that men are not only teaching but working.'—Scotsman.