Applied Anatomy: 74 galvano-puncture, manipulation, and introduction of foreign bodies bavo been tried. BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. OF THE FIRST PART.—I. Vertebral.—It arises from the upper and back part of the artery, passes up behind the internal jugular vein, between the longus colli on the inner side, and scalenus anticus on the outer side, to the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra; sometimes it enters as low as the seventh, or yet again may enter as high as the fifth. The left vertebral is usually the larger. It is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery on both sides, and on the left side, in addition, by the thoracic duct. In the foramen it is surrounded by a plexus of sympathetic nerves, having its own vein in front, and the trunks of the cervical nerves behind it. This vessel was first ligatured by Dr Smyth of New Orleans, in 1864; and, more recently, the operation has been recommended by Dr Alexander of Liverpool, in epilepsy. We append Dr Smyth's description of the operation as per- formed by himself :—" The head of the patient being thrown back and slightly turned to the left, an incision two inches in length was made along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, commencing at the point where the external jugular vein crosses this muscle, and terminating a little below the clavicle, the edge of the muscle being exposed and drawn to the inner side, the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra was readily felt and taken for a guide. Imme- diately before this, and in a vertical line with it, lies the artery. A layer of fascia was now divided, some loose cellular tissue, with lymphatics, and the ascending cervical artery, were pulled to the inner side, and a separation was made between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles just below their insertion into the tubercle, when the artery and vein became visible, the latter was drawn to the outer side (this is important), and the neecUe passed around the former, from without inwards." In performing tliis operation care must be taken not to mistake the inferior thyroid artery for the vertebral. Immediate contraction of the corresponding pupil is often noticed when the vessel is tied;