116 Applied Anatomy: 4. Divide llie fascia over the median ner^'e thoroughly so that it can be displaced easily Avithout drugging the artery Avith it, but at the same time take care not to injure the sheath of the artery. 5. Clear the vessel and tic, passing the needle from the median nerve. AT THE BEND OF THE ELBOW.—^^'ith the arm avcII abducted, and the fore-arin freely supinated and extended, the operator, standing on the outer aspect of the arm on both sides of the body, ascertains the position of tlie median basilic vein and the tendon of the biceps, and then makes an incision two inches in length, parallel with and a little above the vein. The incision commences half-an-inch above the level of the internal condyle of the humerus and forms an angle of 45° with the long axis of the arm; it is to the inner side of the tendon of the biceps, and must not be prolonged too far downwards lest the median cephalic vein be cut. Draw aside the median basilic vein and the internal cutaneous nerve by a blunt hook, and thus expose the bicipital fascia; divide this on a director, and then the artery is seen lying between the tendon of the biceps and the median nerve and restmg on the brachialis anticus. Bend the elbow and draw the structures on each side away from the vessel, expose and open the sheatli, carefully clear the vessel, and pass the needle from the nerve. XoTE.—(1) Unless the incision be made close to the inner edge of the biceps, the operator may cut down upon the nluar nerve with its companion, the inferior profunda artery, and mistake the latter for the brachial. (2) In one out of every five cases there arc two arteries instead of one. (3) The biceps muscle has occasionally a third head of origin arising between the coraco-bracluahs and tlie brachialis anticus, and when this is the case it crosses ^^^ ^n,nt ot the brachial artery near the spot where it is usually ligalnred; in other cases a slip may be derived from the coraco-brachia is, whicli crosses the vessel to join the inner head of the triceps. (4) Several cases are recorded where the median nerve passed under the artery, instead of over it. (5) The artery, accompanied by the median nerve, sometimes passes to the inner condyle and curves ronnd a pvominence of bone (the " supra-condyloid process , and hen passes beneath or through the pronator radu teres to its usual