Applied Anatomy: 88 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Origin.—From the bifurcatiou of tlie common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It is deeper and further from the middle line (i.e., more posterior) than the external. It is called " internal" because it is distributed to the interior of the cranium. The internal jugular vein, the vagus, and the sympathetic nerves have the same relation to the internal as to the common carotid artery. Course.—Its course is indicated by the upper part of a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point just in front of the lobule of the ear. The part below the posterior belly of the digastric {i.e., the part in the carotid triangle) is the only accessible portion. Relations.—In front—{I) Skin; (2) the supei-ficial fascia; (3) platysma; (4) deep fascia; (5) crossed by the ninth nerve, sending down the descendens noni; (6)'also crossed by the occi- pital artery, giving off some sterno-mastoid branches. Higher up we find (7) the parotid gland; (8) the stylo-glossus and the stylo- pharyngeus muscles; (9) the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and pharyngeal branch of vagus; (10) the external carotid artery. On the outer side—{I) The internal jugular vein; (2) spinal accessory nerve; (3) pneumo-gastric nerve. On the inner side—{I) The pharynx; (2) ascending pharyngeal artery; (3) tonsil. Behind—{!) The gangliated cord of sympathetic; (2) superior laryngeal nerve (internal and external branches); (3) rectus capitis anticus major; (4) further back, the cervical vertebrai. An extra-cranial aneurism of this vessel tends to bulge into the pharynx, as there is least resistance to its growth in this direction. Incision.—With the patient and Surgeon in the same position as in ligature of the common carotid, an incision should be made in the line of the vessel along the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the angle of the jaw to the upper border of the thjToid cartilage. The best position for applying the ligature is about midway between the hyoid bone and the digastric. By this incision we cut through (1) skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) platysma; and (4) deep fascia. Draw aside the sterno-mastoid, when (5) the occipital artery with its mastoid branch, and (6) the ninth nerve with its descendens noni branch, are brought into view. Turn