Stirgical, Medical, and Operative. 339 operator divides the posterior peart of the capsule of the joint and the cotyloid ligament. The neck of the bone should then be divided in sitn—i.e., without dislocation of the joint, with as little disturbance of the parts as possible, the strong anterior part of the capsule being preserved. After division the head must be seized by a lion forceps, and, by means of cutting and twisting, dissected out. In cases where the bone is divided in situ, above the great trochanter, it will not be necessary to disturb the structures much towards the anterior aspect of the joint. All bleeding vessels must now be secured; and the vessels most likely to be divided are those in the neighbourhood of the upper part of the great trochanter—viz., branches from the deep division of the gluteal artery; branches of the sciatic artery, and the ascend- ing branches of the external circumflex branch of the profunda; and probably also branches of the obturator, and the internal circumflex branch of the profunda—all of which arteries give nutrient branches to the hip joint. After Treatment.—An interrupted long splint, with iron brackets opposite the wound, to allow of easy dressing, may be required, to prevent the femur protruding at the wound. The usual treatment, however, is by the weight and pulley, the foot of the bed being raised, and part of the patient's own weight acting as the counter-extending force. When the Avound is par°tly healed Thomas's hip splint may be applied, and the patient allowed to go about in the open air as much as possible. Bony ankylosis is rare (Holmes). The shortening is usually pretty considerable, and a high-heeled boot will be required as well as a staff, and probably a crutch. THE KNEE. As excision of the knee stands, as it were, on the border-land between amputation and excision, it is necessary tliat great care be exercised in the selection of cases; in properly selected cases the operation is strikingly successful, but in badly selected cases it is as strikingly unsuccessful. The history of tlie opei'atiou shows a higher death rate than amputation. Cases requiring excision may be—1. From Diiease, as strumous arthritis with dcptniction of tlie cartilages and limited disease of tlie bone.