Surp'ca/, Medical, and Operative. 423 towards the radial side, as the uhia, growing faster tlian the radius, pushes it over; or, if the uhiar one be affected, the hand will be pushed to the ulnar side. Epiphyseal injury may be produced in three ways:—(1) From actual separation of the epiphysis; (2) from tubercular ostitis near the growing line; and (3) from a blow or fall jarring it, even though the injury be too slight to cause separation, yet an inflammation, it may be of a simj)le nature, is set up Avhich causes premature ossification of the growing line. The Causes of Fracture are either predisposing or exciting: 1. The exciting causes are—(«) Direct violence, when the bone gives way at the point struck, and usually in a transverse direc- tion; (i) indirect violence, such as a strain, when the bone gives way at the weakest part, and not where the force is applied; and ((?) muscular action, as in the patella. 2. The predisposing causes are very various—as exposed position, age, sex, season of the year, tumours, and bone diseases, as gummata, sarcomata, etc. The General Signs of fracture are—1. Alteration in the normal outline of the limb: this may arise from three causes—(a) The force which broke the bone, as the chief cause; (/;) muscular action, as a secondary cause; and (c) the weight of the part. All these causes are illustrated very weU in Pott's fracture. 2. Mobility in the continuity of the bone. 3. Crepitus or grating between the broken ends. Of course, other signs, such as swelling, pain, shock, etc., might be added to this list. In examining a limb for a supposed fracture, remember that the very last thing the Surgeon is to do is to handle the parts : learn everything else before touching, so as to give the patient as little pain as possible, and remember always to compare with the sound limb. He is first to look at it well, then compare it with its fellow, then measure; next gently run the fingers along the most prominent surface or edge; and lastly, if necessary, try for mobility and crepitus. As a rule, the presence of a fracture should bo diagnosed without crepitus; for just as the last part of the Surgeon's examination is to handle the limb, so the very last part of handling should be the attempt to elicit crepitus. All tlie signs of fracture enumerated above may bo due to otlier causes, except mobility in the continuity of the bone, 0.^7., deformity may be due to a previous injury, crepitation, to the movement of tendons in their sheatli, fi^om lymphy exudation, and fluid in tlio