Surgical, Medical, and Operative, 487 encased in plaster of Paris, or else the patient must constantly wear a posterior straight leather splint, so as to prevent the joint from being bent for at least three months more, else the fibrous uniting medium Avill stretch unduly. Many Surgeons believe that the best results are obtained by cutting down on the patella by a vertical incision, and pulling the fragments together by wire or catgut. The objection to this plan is that it opens into the knee joint. It is, no doubt, better for osseous union, but more dangerous, as regards the life of the patient, than the other method. 1. By Posterior Inclined Plane.—This is a straight wooden splint witli or without a foot-piece, with notches or hooks opposite the knee joint to give a fixed point from which to pull on the patella. The splint is well padded, its lower end well raised, and then the limb placed upon it and bandaged to it from the foot upwards. When the knee is reached take two or three figures-of- eight from the notches on the side of the splint above and below the patella, gradually pressing the fragments together. If there is much swelling and effusion into the joint do not forcibly drag the broken parts together, but first wait till the eifusion has subsided. The thigh is then bandaged to the sphnt, and lastly the foot raised and swung. It will probably be found more convenient to fix the leg and thigh to the splint first and then to use a separate bandage at the knee joint, as this can then be tightened from time to time without disturbing the rest of the splint. The objection to this plan IS that the vessels supplying the fractured patella are com- pressed and the fragments starved. 2. By Malgaigne's Hooks.—Two pairs of steel hooks, of which the imir next the skin work in a slot in the other pair, and which can be screwed together or loosened by a screw and nut arrangement, worked by means of a handle. They may be used as Malgaigne himself used them, simply passing them through the skin into the broken fragments, only with strict antiseptic precautions; or they may be used in the way practised by the late Professor Spenoe :—Two large pieces of stout plaster, each seven inches long by five broad, with a semi-circular piece cut out of the upper and lower ends respectively, are prepared; also a number of smaller rectangular pieces three inches by two. The posterior inclined plane is applied as before described, and tlic leg and thi<di