Applied Aiiatoiiiy: 37G feeble liold, but the corouoid process a lirm hold; in full Exteimon the coronoid has a feeble grip, but the olecranon process has a firm hold. The joint is very strong transversely, from the great breadth of the bones and their locking with one another; also, it has very powerful lateral ligaments, and is supported besides by large muscular masses. In health, there is absolutely no lateral move- ment ; so that, if on examining the joint we discover lateral movement, it must either be dislocated or disorganised. But the antero-posterior breadth of the joint is small, and the anterior and posterior ligaments very weak, and it has but little support from muscles, and, therefore, antero-posterior dislocations are more common than lateral. It is also important to notice that the movements of the humerus and ulna take place through an obhque l^lane, as the axis of the arm and fore-arm do not correspond. In extension the hand passes a little outwards with the bones of the fore-arm; whereas, in flexion it tends to approach the middle Ime of the body, so as to enable it to convey very various articles easily and gracefully to the mouth. Injuries of all kinds about the elbow joint (including dislocations) possess a peculiar interest to the practical Surgeon, as they often occur in young children, and are apt to be overlooked tiU it is too late to remedy the injury, and the child must go through life with a crippled arm, which witli some care might have been avoided. Dislocations are specially accidents of childhood and youth; more than one-half the dislocations at the elbow occur in boys betweeii the ages of five and fifteen. In fifty-six cases, twenty-two occurred under the age of fourteen years. It is very often associated Avith fracture of the condyles, olecranon, or coronoid process. In reference to the diagnosis of dislocation special attention must be paid to the natural relations (1) of the olecranon process to the prominent internal condyle of the humerus, and (2) tlie head of the radius to the external condyle. 1. In health, the Olecranon Process lies nearer tlie internal than the external condyle, and when the elbow is extended it lies almost on a level with the condyles. When the joint is flexed to a right angle, tlie point of the olecranon is vertically below the level of the condyles, so that the three processes in this position form a kind of triangle with the apex at the olecranon process. In extreme flexion, the olecranon