Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 299 nuruerous and smallest, and (2) because of more easy access to the numerous and powerful muscles towards the posterior aspect of the joint. As this operation is usuall}^ performed for late hip disease, the disarticulation, as a rule, is easy. Should, however, any difficulty be experienced, the bone should be adducted to the greatest pos- sible extent, and the great trochanter seized with a pair of lion forceps and dragged forcibly outwards. It Avill be observed that this method of amputating at the hip is, as nearly as possible, the same as that adopted by Professor Spence at the shoulder. In the other case the patient is at once turned to the sound side, and a free vertical incision is made along the outer side of the thigh from the top of the great trochanter, six inches or more in length. Dislodge the head of the femur, and then separate the upper part of the shaft from the soft structures by a few longitudinal strokes of the knife, the edge of which must be kept close to the bone; the bone is thus cleared as far as may be deemed necessary. It is nc.Kt replaced in its bed till the soft parts are divided at any level thought desirable by circular sweeps first through the skin and then the muscles; then secure all the bleeding vessels, and closely stitch up the lower part of the wound and insert a drainage tube at the lower and outer angle. It is always advis- able to save the periosteum if possible, so that the muscles may still retain their attachment, and besides, a central rod of bone may be produced, which will render the stump firm, and give the patient some amount of control over an artificial limb. It must be remembered, however, that in the later stages of hip disease the periosteal hsemorrhage may be free and difficult to check. Sir Jo.sEPH Li.sTKR makes a longitudinal incision about eight inches long at the posterior part of the great trochanter, and then makes two crescentic incisions round the limb through skin and fat, which meet on the inner side of the limb at a point an inch or two lower down than the extremity of the outer longitudinal cut. The semilunar flaps thus marked out are dissected up as in the modified circular operation for two inches or so, after which the muscles are divided where they arc exposed (sec Fig. 59).