Surgicat, Medical, and Operative. 401 perpendicular facet. When the knee is extended, as in the erect position, the two inferior facets are in contact with the upper part of the trochlear surface of the femur; in semiflexion, the middle facets come into contact with the femur; in still greater flexion, the superior pair are brought into contact; while in extreme flexion, the patella leaves the trochlear surface of the femur altogether' and the internal perpendicular facet then lies in contact with the outer margin of the inner condyle. Further, at the completion of extension, there is a slight rotation outwards to "lock" the joint; and, at the beginning of flexion, there is a slight rotation inwards of the leg and foot to " unlock " it. The centre of gravity of the body, in the erect attitude, falls in front of the axis of motion of the knee joint, and there is a tendency, therefore, to over-extension; but this IS impossible, because of the tension of the lateral, posterior, and aw^erjor crucial ligaments posterior crucial being tightened in flexion). In this way the erect attitude is maintained without the expenditure of muscular energy. Professor Humphry states that the semi-lunar cartilages do not follow the tibia in the move- ments of rotation (pronation and supination), these movements taking place between the head of the tibia and the cartilacres, while the chief movements of the joint take place between the femur and the cartdages. This probably explains the production of the Internal Derangement of the Knee Joint," which is usually produced during some sudden wrench of the leg, that is of the tibia on the femur, or of the femur on the tibia. Flexors — Dn-eot-{\) Biceps, (2) semi-tendinosus, (3) semi-membranosus, and (4) popliteus. Indwect-{\) Gastrocnemius, (2) plantaris, (3) sartorius, and (4) gr-acilis. Extensors.-Quadriceps extensor cruris (formed by the two vasti, the rectus feinoris and the crureus) External Rotator.-(When the limb is partly flexed)-Thc biceps as a whole, but especially its short head. Internal Rotators.- 1) Tlie pophteus—(this is the chief one, but it only acts when the knee joint is flexed, and the tendon of the popliteus lying in its groove) (2) semi-tendinosus, (3) semi-mcmbranosus, (4) sartorius, and (5) gracilis. To lock home the joint at the completion of extension—The extensor muscles as a whole cause a sliglit rotation outwards. To unlock the joint at the commencement of flexion— (1) Ihc .sartoriiLs, (2) gracilis, and (3) semi-tendinosus. 2o"