397 Stirgical, Medical, and Operative. THE lEREGULAR FORMS. There are many irregular forms of dislocation, and in all some part or the whole of the Y-ligament is torn through. The following are a few of the better marked varieties :— 1. The Everted Dorsal.—This has all the usual signs of dorsal dislocations, except that there is eversion instead of inversion, and there is but slight adduction and the limb may be extended. It is supposed by some that the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is ruptured. 2. The Supra-Spinous. —The limb is shortened to the extent of two or three inches, a little abducted and everted, and the head of the femur is felt just below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, above and to the outer side of the ilio-femoral ligament. As in the last form, the outer head of the ilio-femoral ligament is believed to be torn. 3. The Subspinous. —The hip is flattened, Bryant's line is shortened about two inches, there is extreme eversion and the head of the femur is found below the outer part of Poupart's ligament, a little to the inner side of the anterior inferior iliac spine. 4. In the Perinasum.—This occurs when the limb is greatly abducted at the moment the violence is applied. There is extreme abduction and marked flexion, and the head of the femm- can be felt in the perinteum. The foot may be either inverted or everted. THE KNEE. The Knee Joint.—CZa&s Diarthrosis; Suh-Class, Ginglymus. The Bones entering into its formation are—1. The Femur, with its trochlear surface, which is highest and most prominent on the outer side; and the articular surfaces of the Condyles, of which the inner is the more elongated from before backwards. 2. The Tibia, with its two surfaces, of which the internal is the longest, narrowest, and deepest—the external being the reverse. 3. The Patella, with its .seven facets. The Synovial Membrane is the largest in the body. It forms a largo cul-de-sac bencatli the extensor muscles of the thigh, extending upwards for one or two inches above the articular .surface. At the sides it passes beneath