330 Applied Anatomy : The trapezium is then seized with the lion forceps and carefully- dissected out; and, in doing so, take care of the radial artery, wliich lies on its outer side, and the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis in the groove on its palmar surface; the head of the metacarpal hone of the tliumh is then protruded and cut off with the forceps or saw. Lastly, the pisiform hone is examined; if healthy, the cartilaginous surface is removed and the rest of the hone left, hut if diseased it sliould be entirely removed. The hook of the unciform hone is treated in the same way. The tendons, therefore, divided in this operation, are the three extensors of the wrist. If the bases of the metacarpal bones be divided too low down, the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis may be injured, but it usually escapes, while the flexor carpi ulnaris is left attached to the pisiform bone. All the tendons necessarily divided are cut as long as possible, so that they may form new attachments in the most advantageous position. The radial wound is to be closely rinited with sutures; the ulnar incision is closed at each end, but its middle part is left open for drainage, and into this a drainage tube is inserted. After Treatment.—The hand is placed on an anterior wooden splint, with an obtuse-angled piece of cork, connected to its palmar surface by means of fused gutta-percha, and a transverse bar of cork on the under surface, so as to project from the inner side of the splint. By this means the hand is kept in a state of semi- flexion, and the wrist slightly extended, and this favours union of the severed extensors in the most favourable position. The thumb rests on the upper grooved surface of the transverse bar of cork. The arm is bandaged to the splint, but the thumb and fingers are left free. The great objects are—(1) To procure firm fibrous ankylosis of the wrist, by keeping it in a fixed position for six or seven weeks; and (2) to secure perfectly movable fingers and thumb. Passive motion of all the joints of the fingers and thumb, including the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, is commenced on the second day, while the wrist and fore-arm are kept undisturbed on the splint. The anterior part of the splint may be gradually removed as the range of passive movement is increased. When the patient leaves his bed the arm must be carried in a sling, mid- way between pronation and supination, and, to prevent the hand