Sirrgi'axl, Medical, and Operative. 511. iiitonial maxillary artery. Iji depressing the jaw it must not be rotated, lest the artery in this way be stretched round tlie neck of tlie bone and be torn or divided. (G) Divide the insertions of the internal and the external pterygoids; evert the bone, and carefully separate all the soft parts from its inner surface, taking care not to injure the submaxillary gland or lingual nerve, and remove it. Secure the bleeding points and close the incision, and drain from the lower and posterior angle. jS"ote.—In making the incision it is better not to carry it too far up behind the ascending ramus (if the jaw can be disarticulated without doing so) lest the trunk of the fecial nerve be severed, and the various facial muscles be thei'efore paralysed (the portio dura—/rtc-w/—being the motor nerve of the face), but only curve It slightly over the angle of the jaw, and dissect up leneath this flap very close to the bone. If, however, the nerve must be divided, its main branches should be sutured afterwards with fine catgut. In closing the wound it is better to stitcli the two edges of the divided mucous membrane together in order to shut the wound off from the cavity of the mouth; but if this cannot be done then a drainage tube must be passed through into the mouth The wound and lip (if divided) must be sutured in the same way, and the after-treatment conducted on the same principles as in excision of the upper jaw—continuous irrigation with warm antiseptic fluid. In the case of simple tumours, whenever possible, the alveolus should l)e divided and tlie lower border of the jaw preserved. Chief Structures Dividecl.-(l) Superficial structures, fascia, and platysma. (2) Muscles-viz., the masseter, platysma, part ot buccinator, insertion of digastric (anterior belly), genio-liyoid geiuo-hyo-glossus of tlie side excised (if the incision be throu-d! the symphysis), mylo-hyoid, a few fibres of the superior constrict'^^r of tlie pharynx, internal and external pterygoids, depressor labii infeiioris, temporal, levator meiiti, and orbicularis oris (.3) Pro- bably a part of parotid gland. (4) Tlie stylo-maxillary ligament. (0) Nerves—VIZ., inferior dental, small twigs of the facial, part of the auriculo-temporal, mylo-hyoid, and masseteric. tiarc must bo taken to preserve the conjoined cliorda tympani and lingual from injury. '|'l,ey Yw on the internal pterygoid, and are covered by tlie external pterygoid; the chorda being the nerve of taste to the