Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 895 outwards. Tlie success of the method depends on the integrity of the ilio-femoral band; it is to act as the fulcrum of the lever, of which the shaft of the femur below it is the long arm, while the part above it is the short arm. The manipulations are—(1) Flex the leg on the thigh to relax the hamstrings, and the great sciatic nerve, if need be, and also flex the thigh upon the abdomen, carrying it at the same time into a position of adduction, so as to relax the uutorn part of the capsule. (2) Circumduct outwards (a combination of abduction and external rotation) so as to render the Y-ligament tense, and distend the rent in the capsule; also to make the head pass round the way it came, and turn it through the opening in the capsule. (3) Quickly extend and bring the limb to the side of its fellow, so as to make the head pass at once into the deepest part of the acetabulum. When the dislocation is reduced the legs may either be tied together with a pillow between the knees, or the long splint applied. The splint is to be kept on for a week or ten days, and after this the joint should be supported by some fixed apparatus, as a leather splint or a plaster of Paris spica, for two weeks longer. THE FORWARD DISLOCATIONS. 1. Into the Foramen Ovale (forwards and dowmoardffJ.—Tha head of the bone rests in the thyroid foramen. Causes.—Sudden and violent abduction, unaccompanied either by external rotation, or fixed flexion or extension ; jumping or falling from a height, with the feet widely apart, as sliding over the end of a loaded waggon or cart; or the sudden movement of a carriage, when one foot is on the step and the other not yet off the ground; and also getting out of bed quickly, when one foot is caught in the bed-clothes, whUe the other descends suddenly to the floor. The pectin eus, gracilis, and adductors longus and brevis are torn, and the psoas, iliacus, glutei, and pyriformis are put on the stretch; the ligamcntum teres and capsule are ruptured as before. The obturator nerve is stretched or torn. Symptoms.—The limb seems lengthened, the toes point downwards and are a little everted, and the foot is separated some distance fronr the other one—the thigh being flexed and abducted, and in front of the opposite one,