Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 391 1. Nelaton's Test Line.—Draw a line from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium over the outer side of the hip to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium. In health, the top of the great trochanter should just touch this line in every l)osition of the joint. The disadvantage of this measurement is that the patient has to be rolled over towards the sound side, a movement which may not only he very painful to the patient, hut may be actually injurious, as it may loosen an impacted fracture of the neck. 2. Bryant's Triangle.—The patient is laid flat on his back, on a firm mattress or couch, and a perpendicular is dropped from the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; then a second line at right angles to the first is dropped from it to the top of the great trochanter ; then the two lines are joined by a third one from the anterior superior spine to the top of the great trochanter, thus completing the " triangle." The length of the second line, compared with a corresponding line on the opposite side, shows the amount of vertical displacement; the length of the third line shows roughly tlie degree of displacement of the trochanter backwards or forwards. The advantage of Bryant's method is that the measurements can be taken without moving the patient, Avhich is of importance in cases of fracture. 3. IVIorris's Bitrochanteric IVIeasurement.—This is chiefly of use in cases of fracture, and shows the degree of inward displace- ment of the trochanter, just as Bryant's method shoAvs the degree of vertical displacement. The distance from the tip of the great trochanter to the symphysis pubis is measured on both sides and the figures compared; on the injured side the distance betAveen the two points is always less. Mr Morris has constructed a special measuring rod for this purpose, which shows the state of affairs at a glance. 4. Another IVIethod, which I have only seen used by Professor CiiiENE, is to mark with ink the anterior superior spines of the two sides, and also the tip of the great trochanter, on each side, and then, by placing two straight pieces of narrow board—or better still, two flexible flat pieces of steel or brass, so as to arch over the prominence of the abdomen—transversely on these four points, and observe whether or not the two rods are parallel Avith each other.