426 Applied Anatomy: is very common, because — (1) It is much exposed to dived violence; (2) it is the only osseous connection of the upper extremity with the trunk. Its shape enables it to withstand, to a certain extent, indirect violence, the force being partially broken at each cxirve. Causes.—(1) Dhred Violence—Fracture from this cause happens comparatively seldom; when it does take place, the fracture is transverse and at the point struck. (2) Indired Violence—This, is the usual cause, as in falls on the shoulder, elbow, or hand; the direction of the fracture is oblique from without inwards and from before backwards, and as a rule is situated where the two curves meet, at the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the bone, as at this point the bone is more slender than elsewhere. In children and infants the usual cause is falling out of bed, or being dropped by a careless nurse. (3) Muscular Action has been known to break the bone, as in using a whip; in this case the fracture is usually on the right side and about the middle of the bone. FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. 1. Fracture at the Sternal End.—Fracture at the sternal end takes place about three-quarters of an inch from the end of the bone, internal to the rhomboid ligament, and is usuaUy transverse. This'may resemble a dislocation. The outer fragment is di-awn inwards towards the sternum by the subclavius, and the pectoralis major and minor muscles. The inner end of the outer fragment is displaced downwards and inwards and can be felt movmg on the front of the sternum. 2 At the Junction of the Two Curves.—This is by far the most common seat of fracture. The outer fragment is drawn- downwards, forwards, and hv,Yiixd.&-dou)nwards, by the weight of the arm and scapula, and the action of the deltoid and other muscles acting on the scapula, as the pectorals and latissimus dorsi- forwards, by tlie pectorals and serratus magnus rotating it; and inwards, by the pectoralis major and minor, subclavms and trapezius, and muscles attached to the posterior border of the scapula-levator anguli scapulae, and the rhomboids, major and muior, also the latissimus dorsi. At the same time the outer end is rotated forwards, whilst the inner end points backwards.