122 Applied Anatomy: PECULIARITIES.—Not unfrequently the radial takes its origin from tlie brachial, sometimes from tlie axillary. It has been seen more superficial than usual, lying above the deep fascia and the supinator longus muscle. Branches.—Its branches in the fore-arm are—(1) The radial recurrent; (2) superficialis volaj. This vessel usually arises just as the radial is about to wind round the wrist; it is usually small, and ends in the muscles of the thumb, but sometimes it is as large as the continuation of the radial, and arises much higher up; under these circumstances, the two run side by side for a little way, and form what has been called the " douhle pulse." (3) Muscular; (4) anterior carpal. At the wrist—(1) Posterior carpal; (2) meta- carpal, or first dorsal interosseous; (3) dorsales pollicis ; (4) dorsalis indicis. in the hand—(1) Princeps pollicis; (2) radialis incUcis; (3) perforating ; (4) interosseous. Collateral Circulation (see Kg. 18). — Chiefly by the idnar artery and its branches through the palmar arches (31, 31a). The anastomoses here are so free that, if the radial is wounded, a ligature must be applied on both sides of the wound. ULNAR ARTERY. Origin.—From the bifurcation of the brachial at the bend of the elbow. Extent.—Prom its point of origin tiU it ends in the super- ficial palmar arch. Course.—It first passes downwards and inwards, and then straight downwards. The course of the straight part may be indicated by a line drawn from the inner condyle of the humerus to the inner side of the pisiform bone. Relations.—Tbs vessel, unUke the radial, is at first very deeply placed. lnfront-{\) The superficial structures ; (2) crossed by the median nerve at its upper part • (3) the following four muscles—(a) pronator radu teres, (h) flexor carpi radialis, (c) palmaris longus, (d) flexor subhmis dicritorum. Behiml-(l) Brachalis anticus ; (2) flexor profundus di-itorum. To its inner side—{l) Flexor carpi ulnaris ; (2) ulnar nerve (for its lower two-thirds). To its outer .s/rf^'—The flexor subliinis digitorum. , , ^ . xi fl„..^,. I^OTE—At the wrist it lies between the tendons of the fiexoi sublimis digitorum and the flexor carpi ulnaris, and that the nerve is on its inner side for the lower two thirds (see Pig. 20). It may