Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 137 broad and flat, with the edges well rounded, and has a very blunt pomt, so that it is not likely to injure the peritoneum or intestines duriiig its introduction; and, further, the groove does not go quite up to the end, so that eveii should the peritoneum fold a little over its end it is not likely to be injured. This care is necessary in opening the transversalis fascia lest the peritoneum be wounded; it may, if preferred, be torn with the fingers instead of using the director and kuife. The patient is now to be turned well over on the sound side, and the peritoneum is then separated carefully from the iliac fossa until the brim of the true pelvis is reached and the external iliac found, Avhich will guide to the parent trunk, or the promontory of the sacrum and sacro-iliac synchondrosis may be taken as the guides, if the artery is apj^roached from above. The position of the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve as they cross the external iliac must be kept in mind, and also the ureter, which crosses the end of the common or the beginning of the external iliac; but the ureter and spermatic vessels are usually more or less adlierent to and follow the peritoneum as it is stripped up and pressed forwards. The needle should be passed from the vein — that is, in ligature of both vessels, from right to left. The clearing of the vessel is a difficult proceeding, but it must be done as carefully and well as possible by the finger nail or director. Some use an ordinary needle, Avhile others prefer the helix or rectangular one; on account of the depth of the vessel the needle had better be passed threaded. The incision must not be carried too low down or too far forwards, lest the deep circumflex iliac or the deep epigastric arteries be wounded, or even the structures passing through the internal abdominal ring. A branch of the deep circumflex iliac (or the artery itself) will be found between the transversalis and the internal oblique muscle, and must be secured at once. This vessel also serves as a useful landmark indicating the deptli to which tlie incision lias been carried. Ligature of the common iliac may be rendered necessary on account of—(1) Aneurism of the external or internal iliacs; (2) hemorrhage from the same vessels, either as the result of a wound (e.r/., a gunshot wound or stal)) or a surgical operation; (3) secondary hemorrhage aft(;r amputation of the upper part of