430 Appliea Anatomy: the sound shoulder obliriuely round the chest, the injured arm heing drawn well forwards, when the loop round the arm acts as a fulcrum, and the shoulder is thrown backwards and outwards; a slit is cut in this piece for the point of the elbow, Avhich is at the same time pushed well upwards. The second piece is then fastened to itself over the sound shoulder; it must be long enough to com- plete this circumference once and leave about eight inches more. By these means the blade of the scapula is pressed close to tlie ribs, and in this way the point of the shoulder is thi'own out^vards and' backwards. It is better, at the same time, to apply a domett bandage to fix the arm more securely to the side, and support and steady the elbow. II. Fractures at the Coraco-Clavicular Ligament.—AU that is re(iuired is simply a broad domett bandage to fix the arm to the side for a couple of weeks. ■ , . x III. Fractiu'es External to the Coraco-Clavicular Ligament. —In this case there are only two displacements to counteract, forwards and inwards; and for this purpose the shoulder must be Ijraced back and the arm fixed to the side-(a) By figure-of-eight bandage round the shoulders and fastened behind. This coimteract^ both the inward and the forward displacements; or {h) two padded handkerchiefs may be used, carried round the axilh« from behmd, over the tips of the shoulders, and tied or stiiclied at the back over a pad The arm is then secured to the side as usual. In adults, fractures internal and external to the coraco-clavicular liaament will unite in about four weeks; at the ligament, a rest ot two weeks will be sufficient. Practures of the clavicle m children will unite in three weeks, and in infants m tiw weeks. FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. Fractures of the Body of this bone are rare. When they occur aU that is required is a thick, soft pad, and a broad bandage o Idy the parts. The Anatomical Neck, that is, of the gWd cavitv external to the root of the coracoid process. A fracture Zu.:h U e anatomical neck is usually caused by direct violence am^ nay simulate a subglenoid dislocation of the 1«->J^^ bv raisiL the arm the parts resume their natural appearance, with tL ruiion of crepitus probably, but become displaced again