507 Surgical, JSfedical, and Operative. as usual, ixext tho part to ho left. If preferred, this process may first be notched with the ScW like the other two, or complete division may be accomplished hy a cliain saAV. Some Surgeons divide these points with the saw m the following order:—Palate, nasal, malar, and tlien complete the division with the bone forceps in the reverse order. The forceps are now used to completely divide tho malar attachment, and, lastly, tlie palate process and alveolus; in dividing this last part the forceps can also be used as a lever to prise the bone from its bed, thus preparing the way for the next part of the operation. Dr Duncan completes division of the malar attachment by the bone forceps last of all, as he says it is easier to loosen the bone by working downwards and inwards than by prising it upwards and outwards, as is done when the palate attachment is divided last. (4) Everything being now ready for the gush of blood likely to follow removal of the bone, and the patient brought fully under the influence of the anajsthetic, and the soft palate separated from the hard by a transverse incision, the jaw is firmly grasped with the lion forceps, and with a firm, sudden wrench downwards and outwards the bone is torn from its posterior attachments; in this way its attachments to the palate bone and the pterygoid processes behind, and the ethmoid bone above arc torn away. As the bone is wrenched out, any soft tissues must be divided with the fingers or bistoury, such as the origin of the temporal muscle in the zygomatic fossa, the buccinator muscle, and the infra-orbital nerve, etc. AVhen the bone is removed there is great htemorrhage, and the cavity must be at once packed with a dry antiseptic sponge, or strips of lint, till the vessels (which are mostly of small size) have had a little time to close themselves by retraction and contraction; the vessel that gives most trouble is the posterior palatine artery, which is torn just at the last moment. After this the packing is removed, the vessels tied, and some strips of lint dipped in zinc chloride or iodoform arc introduced to support the cheek flap, and which are to be left in for two or three days. lodofoi'm, or a solution of cldorido of zinc, is the most effective antiseptic to use in the first instance, and afterwards continuous irrigation with some Avarm antiseptic—e.r/., boracic acid. Tho incision must be very neatly and carefully stitclied up with horse-hair sutures; tlicso may be used througliout, and will be found