263 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. mcnt of the muscles to that bone. 'Jo insure that the anterior llap shall be of the same breadth througliout it is advisable, before beginning the operation, to measure with a tape and mark the whole extent of the anterior flap in ink, rather than trust to the eye alone, as the cone-shaped form of the limb is apt to mislead the eye. The posterior flap is then made with the same pre- cautions to avoid injury of the arteries and nerve behind. The tibia and fibula are next to be cleared to the level of the base of the flaps, or a little higher if necessary, by circular sweeps of tlie knife, first below and then above the bones, the interosseous membrane divided, and the tissues between the bones cleared, by a figure-of-eight-like sweep. To avoid cracking and splinter- ing of the fibula, both bones are to be divided together, but the fibula must be finished before the tibia. Should the angle in front of the tibia be very acute it should be removed, either by the bone pliers or a smaU saw. The vessels requiring ligature are—(1) The anterior tibial at the middle of the apex of the anterior flap; (2) the posterior tibial; and (.3) the peroneal artery, both in the posterior flap. RESUME of Teale's amputation:— 1. Mark out the flaps by the rules already laid down. 2. Make the lateral incisions, and then divide all the soft parts down to the bone at the apex of the anterior flap : the anterior flap should be a perfect square. 3. Eeflect anterior flap, using the liandle of the scalpel or thumb nail to separate it from the interosseous mem- brane, in order not to harm the anterior tibial artery. JJivide and raise the posterior flap. 5. Saw the bones at the upper limit of the reflected flaps: assistant to turn tlie foot well inwards, and the operator to divide the fibula before the tibia is completely divided. G. Fix the flaps in position and dress the stump. 2- Long Anterior Flap, slightly rounded at the corners, and "lade by dissection. Mr I'.ei.l recommends this method, and it was also used by Mr Syme. It is formed on the same principle and with all the precautions of iMr Teale's anterior flap, and