Surgical, Medical, and Operative, 347 placed abundance of cotton-wool and then open icove roller bandages, applied from the toes upwards, and the whole rendered immovable by plaster of Paris applied above and below the knee. The limb is swung from the pulley of a Salter's swing, or from the top bar of an ordinary cage; the foot and leg being slightly, but not too much, raised. By this means the wound can be readily dressed without disturbing the splint or moving the bones; this method, of course, presupposes that the wound will require to be frequently dressed. In cases where it is hoped it Avill not require to be dressed frequently, a light weight and a well-padded "box" splint, extending from the upper part of the thigh to near the ankle joint, may be used. To maintain the bones in apposition, MoRRANT Baker uses two strong steel pins, which are made to transfix the tibia and bury themselves in the femur, crossing each other like the two parts of a St Andrew's cross; the pins are removed as soon as they become loose. Mr Howard Marsh uses ordinary bone knitting-needles instead of steel pins; they are cut short and left permanently in the bone. Others, again, use silver wire or strong catgut sutures. The limb may be kept in this position for an average period of three months (it may be more or less), necessary to procure firm union; for other three months it should be encased in a starch bandage, and gradually brought into use for support and progression. When the bones are completely consolidated, a boot with a high heel will be required, to compensate for any shortening of the limb, usually from one to three inches. RESUME of the foregoing operation:— 1. Make the horse-shoe incision across the front of the joint and turn up the flap. 2. Forcibly flex the joint and divide the lateral ligaments. 3. Separate the bones slightly, and divide the crucial liga- ments by cutting down iqmn the head of the tihla. 4. Clear and saw the femur; make cut parallel with the condyles, but at right angles to the shaft antcro- l)osteriorly. 5. Clear and saw the tibia, making the cut at riglit angles to the shafts in both directions.