124 Applied AIIatomy: sublimis digitoruui. Superficial Guide—Tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris; the pisiform bone, into which it is inserted, forms a sure guide to the tendon. Or the line that marks the course of the vessel may be taken as guide. Incision.—Make an incision two inches long parallel with the tendon, but a little external to it. ]*>y this incision the skin and superficial fascia are divided; then divide the inter-muscular layer of deep fascia, flex the wrist and draw aside the tendons, Avhen the artery and nerve will be exposed to view. The Deep Guide is the ulnar nerve, which lies imme- diately internal to the artery. Bend the wrist, and draw the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the inner side, and then isolate the vessel, taking care of the vense comites, and ligature in the usual manner, the needle being passed pvm the nerve, which lies to its inner side. PECULIARITIES.—The artery not unfrequently arises from the brachial, sometimes from the axillary. When its origin is high up it usually passes superficially to the flexor muscles of the fore-arm, just beneath the deep fascia. Branches.—The more important branches are—(1) Anterior, and (2) posterior ulnar recurrents ; (3) common interosseous, and (4) profunda branch, which is given ofl'just beyond the pisiform bone, and dips down between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor lirevis minimi digiti, and anastomoses, with the radial, completing the deep pabnar arch. For the termination of the recurrent branches see " Anastomoses round the Elbow Joint" (page 102). ^ Other branches are (5) anterior and (G) posterior carpals, and (7) digital. Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 18).—Chiefly from the radial and its branches through the palmar arches (30, 31«). PALMAR ARCHES. («) Superficial Arch (seeFig. 18, 5ia).—This is the direct con- tinuation of the ulnar artery. It forms an arch with the convexity downwards, and is completed on the radial side by the mperficiaJis roUti branch of the radial artery, or, probably more frequently, by the mdialis mUci^ branch of the same artery. It lies beneath the inte^mmentary structures and palmar fascia, and rests on the digital arteries and ner\'OS and tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum.