Applied Anatomy: 54 and bracliial nervous plexuses. (4) Dyspnoea from pressure on the right recurrent laryngeal nerve, or by direct compression of the trachea. (5) Difficulty in swallowing, which usually occurs after the dyspnoea, as the nerve is first affected. (G) If the cervical sympathetic be irritated there Avill be dilatation of the pupil of the affected side; but, if it be completely jjaraZ^/secZ, the pupil on that side will be contracted and there may be sweating and redness of that side of the face and neck. The same remark applies to aneurism of the common carotid. Origin. From the right side of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta at a point corresponding to the middle of the manu- brium sterni. Extent.—From the above point upwards and to the right, to the posterior aspect of the right sterno-clavicular articula- tion and lower cervical region, where it bifurcates into the right subclavian and right common carotid. Its entire length is from 11 to 2 inches. Course.—Upwards and to the right, behind the first piece of the sternum. Its most important Relations are:—In front—(l) The first piece of the sternum. (2) Lower part of the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. (3) It is crossed by the left innominate vein, and there is also a network of thyroid veins in front of it, embedded in the loose cellular tissue. On its right side —(1) The right innominate vein; (2) vagus; (3) phrenic; (4) inferior cardiac of right vagus; (5) pleura. On its left side, the left common carotid. Behind—(l) Trachea, at lower part: (2) pleura and apex of the right lung. THE OPERATION. In ligature of this vessel the patient should be in an easy recumbent posture, with the shoulders raised, the head thi-own back and turned towards the left shoulder; the right arm should be weU drawn down and adducted. The Surgeon should either stand in front of, or facing, the right shoulder. Superficial Guide to the Vessel.—It lies just behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation. Inclslon.-The incision should be V shaped Fii-st make an incision about two inches long over the inner part of tlie clavicle and sterno-clavicular articiUation to the