Applied Anatomy: 340 2. For Injury, as lacerated wounds of the joint, compound frac- ture, compound dislocation, and gun-shot injuries. 3. For Results of Disease or Injury, as ankylosis in a faulty or useless position. Speaking generally, in a proper case for excision the following conditions are necessary:—(1) The disease should be limited, not involving the epiphysial cartilages. (2) The patient should be constitidionaUy healthy ; there should be no evidence of such a constitutional affection as the tubercular, nor should there be waxy disease of internal organs. (3) The condition requiring it should be the result of an accident and not the expression of constitutional mischief, in which case excision would do no good. (4) It must be in the chronic stage. (5) There shoidd be no sinuses leading down to suppurating and septic cavities; if such exist, then the operation of excision should only be iised as an exploratory measure, with everything ready for amputation there and then if necessary. What amputation to perform will necessarily depend on the state of the case—the five more likely, in order of trial, are Garden or Gbitti at the knee, Spence, Teale, or the "modified circular" at the lower third of the thigh. (6) The patient should not be too young, as the epiphysial lines are near, and if injured or removed, the growth of the limb will, to a great extent, be checked; fourteen or fifteen is considered the most favourable age, but it may range from fifteen to thirty years of age. Mr Gant, it is true, has operated successfully on cases at the advanced age of fifty-three, but such examples are rare. Besides, in young children there is a probability of recovery without such a severe operation; rest, incision, scraping, and drainage may work wonders. Further, in children the joint disease is probably only a symptom of profound constitutional cachexia. (7) The patient should not be too old, for then the reparative power will be deficient to unite the bony surfaces and fill up the large cavity; beyond thirty, as a rule, it is better to amputate. (8) The patient should be in the prime of life, and free from all visceral disease, and able to bear the long confinement to one position, necessary to in-ocure firm, bony ankylosis. Arthrectomy or Erasion of the Knee Joint.-When cases ot strumous or tubercular arthritis are seen early enough, this opera- tion may not only cure the disease, but even leave a movable joint,