382 Applied Anatomy: The Synovial Membrane sometimes communicates with the membrane at the end of the ulna (merabrana sacciformis). The Arteries of the joint are the anterior and posterior carpal, anterior and posterior interosseous, and branches from the deep palmar arch ; the Nerves come from the ulnar and posterior interosseous. The Ligaments are four—The anterior, posterior, internal, and external lateral. IVIovements. — 1. Flexors — (a) The palmaris lougus, (b) the flexor carpi radialis, and (c) the flexor carpi ulnaris. 2. Extensors— [a) The extensor carpi radialis longior, (h) extensor carpi radialis brevior, and (c) extensor carpi ulnaris. 3. To bend to ulnar side— [u) The flexor carpi ulnaris, and (b) extensor carpi ulnaris. 4. To bend to radial side—[a) The flexor carpi radialis, (J)) extensor cari)i radialis longior, and (c) the extensors of the thumb. Relations.— In Front—(1) Kadial artery, (2) flexor longus pollicis, (3) flexor carpi ulnaris, (4) palmaris longus, (5) tendons of flexor sublimis, (6) tendons of flexor profundus, (7) median nerve, (8) ulnar artery and nerve, and (9) flexor carpi ulnaris. Behind—(1) Extensores carpi radialis longior et brevior, (2) extensor secundi internodii pollicis, (3) extensor communis digitorum, (4) extensor indicis, (.5) extensor minimi digiti; and (6) extensor carpi idnaris. On the outer side—(1) The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, (2) extensor prinii internodii pollicis, (3) radial artery, and (4) the radial nerve. On the inner side merely the integumentary structures. The strength of the wrist is maiulj^ due to the numerous strong tendons surrounding it, aided by its own ligaments, the numerous articulations in the neighbourhood, and the presence of the trian- gular fibro-cartilage. For these reasons dislocation of this joint is very rare, as most of the so-called dislocations of the wrist joint have usually been found to be fractures. The guide is to be found in the relation of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to the styloid process of the radius; just as in like injuries about the elbow, the guide is found in the relation of the inner condyle of the humerus to the olecranon process. If the styloid process of the radius and the metacarpal bone of the thumb retain their normal relation, the case cannot be one of dislocation. The styloid process of the radius is more anterior, and passes further down than the styloid process of the ulna. In effusion into the joint.