Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 403 patella to lie free; in cases wlicre the amount of effusion is small, the large pouch above the patella should be emptied by pressing over it Avith the palm of the hand, as this will press what fluid there is more directly under the patella. The position of the limb IS one of moderate flexion, combined with external rotation of the head of the tibia, as in this position the cavity holds most fluid, and^ it, at the same time, relaxes the more powerful ligaments of the joint (posterior ligament, posterior crucial, and lateral ligaments). Should, however, the joint remain long in this position, there is a tendency for the head of the tibia to be partly dislocated backwards and rotated outwards, from the continued action of the hamstrings, conjoined with softening and yielding of the crucial and lateral ligaments; and for the same reasons there will be shght lateral movement of the joint. In effusion into the prejpatellar bursa (Housemaid's Knee) the sweUing does not assume the shape of the synovial cavity, but forms a prominent globular swelling in front of the pateUa, thus obscurmg it; whereas, in synovitis, this bone can readily be felt surmounting the swelling. Above the synovial pouch of the knee joint there is very frequently a separafe bursa about an inch long, between the quadriceps and the femur, and which may becom°e hlled with efiusion, but without affecting the knee joint; very frequently, however, it communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee joint. The following muscles act on both Hip and Knee Joints:— 1 The biceps, (2) the semi-membranosus, (3) the semi-tendinosus, 4) the rectus femoris, (5) the sartorius, (6) the gluteus maximus (through the mo-ttblal band), (7) tensor fliscite femoris (throu-h the ihn-hb/al band), and (8) the gracilis. It is evident, therefore that in disease of either the hip or knee joints, both will require to l)e kept rigid, in order that the diseased one may be at rest. iherc are three circumstances which tend to make the knee .joint insecurc-(l) The configuration of the articular surfaces of the bones; (2) the feet that it is between the two longest bones ni tlie body, and, therefore, powerful leverage is brought to bear upon It; and (3) its great mobility. Nevertheless, dislocation of Ins joii.t is rare, its gi'eat strength being due to its very powerful iiganieuts.