Applied Anatomy: 172 of the peroneal and the anterior peroneal arteries, blood would still reach the arch very freely, even after ligature of both tlie anterior and posterior tibials. Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 30).—When the Posterior Tibial artery is tied at its u-p'per part—1. By the communi- cating branch between the posterior tibial and the peroneal (29). 2. Muscular branches of the posterior tibial anastomosing Avith muscular branches of the peroneal. 3. Malleolar branches (30) of the anterior tibial anastomosing with the anterior peroneal (28), and terminal branches of the peroneal (36), and calcanean branches of the posterior tibial. 4. The communicating branch of the dorsal artery of the foot (33), anastomosing directly with the external plantar (31) from the posterior tibial. 5. The tarsal and the metatarsal branches of the dorsal artery of the foot, anastomosing at the sides of the foot with the external (31) and internal (32) plantar arteries. G. The perforating branches of the plantar arch anastomosing with branches of the metatarsal branch of dorsal artery. When the artery is ligatured at the loioer part, the collateral circulation is carried on by' anastomoses 2 to 6, inclusive, of above. When the Peroneal artery is tied, the collateral circulation will be carried on chiefly by the first three anastomoses enumerated above. ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. Origin.—From the bifurcation of the popliteal artery at tlic lower border of the popliteus muscle. Extent.—From its point of origin to the middle of the ankle joint, where it becomes the dorsal artery of the foot. Course.—It passes forwards between the two heads of the tibialis posticus, and then throiigh the opening cibove the upper part of the interosseous membrane, and then passes downwards obliquely towards the ankle joint. Its course may be indicated by a line drawn from the inner side of the head of "the fibula to a point midway between the internal and external malleoli. In its npper third the vessel lies deeply, in its lower two thirds it is more superficial. Relations.—It is covered hi/— (1) The skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) deep fascia; (4) the anterior tibial nerve crosses it once or twice; (5) near the ankle it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis. It