Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 211 the joint, rcmeniber its peculicar shape—convex, with the convexity upwards. Disarticulation being completed, both flaps arc retracted, and the flexor muscles divided evenly at the base of the flaps. During healing, the elbow joint is flexed at a right angle and the fore-arm pronated, as the wound drains best in this position. 2. Long Anterior and Short Posterior Flaps.—The assistant holds the fore-arm pronated and pulls back the skin as tightly as possible. The operator grasps the hand, and, flexing the wrist, makes a semi-lunar incision on the dorsal aspect, from one styloid process to the other, and raises a flap of skin fascia and subcutaneous fat only (Bell)—the flap is to include the- tendons of the back of the hand (Heath). In any case a flap is raised and retracted a little above the styloid processes, the extensor tendons rendered tense, and the joint opened. The palmar flap may be made by dissection from the outside, before disarticulation, or dissected ofi" the metacarpal bones from above downwards after disarticulation, having previously outlined its edges by a deep incision on each side of the metacarpus. This flap is then retracted, like the posterior, and the flexor tendons rendered tense and divided. It is almost impossible to make the anterior flap by transfixion on account of the transverse metacarpal arch, and the prominence formed by the pisiform bone and the hook of the unciform. The vessels requiring ligature are—(1) The radial artery cut close to the radius; (2) the ulnar artery in the palmar flap; (3) sometimes the terminal twigs of the interosseous arteries. The styloid processes are to be cut ofl" with the bone forceps, or the saw if preferred. 3. The Modified Circular Method.—The arm is held as in the previous operation {I.e., pronated), the skin at the same time being well retracted, and then two semi-lunar incisions, beginning two niches hdoic the styloid processes, are made through the skin, fat, and fascia ordy, and two sliort, equal, antcro-posterior semi-lunar flaps I'aiscd. 'i'iic flaps are next retracted a little above the level of the styloid processes, and the muscles divided by a circular sweep of the knife at that level, tlio assistant in the meantime keeping the di/rercnt groups of muscles tense as the knife passes—c. r/., the anteiior group by oaiv-cHcimuii (dursiflcxiunj, tiie posterior group by extreme flexion. The late Mv Spence preferred this plan to all others, as, lie said, Ijy tlic uidinary flap method the