Applied Anatomy: 390 dorsum ilii, tlio head, in passing upwards and backwards, passes hettveen the tendon of the obturator internus and the pelvis, whereas in dislocation into the great sacro-sciatic notch, the head of the bone as it passes backwards, passes heldnd the tendon of the obturator internus, the tendon lying over the neck of the bone and preventing its ascent. Mr Morris states that when the limb is flexed, abducted, and rotated inwards, the backward dislocations are produced; in moderate flexion, the head rests on the dorsum ilii; in extreme flexion, it comes to rest near the sciatic notch. When the limb is abducted, extended, and rotated outwards, the dislocation upon the pubes occurs. In very forcible abduction, the head of the bone is sent into the perinseum. If there be neither rotation, forced flexion, nor extension, the head, of the bone rests in its primary position —in the thyroid foramen. The dislocations, therefore, it will be observed, all occur in the abducted position of the limb, because (1) during abduction the head of the bone passes to the shalloAvest and weakest part of the acetabulum, and presses on the least sup- ported part of the capsule; and (2) during abduction the ligamentum teres is loose. The same condition of parts is also brought about, even when the limb is not abducted, if the body be forced over to the dislocated side. The reverse is true in regard to the adducted position. Just as in tlie shoulder, there is but one primary form of dislocation of the hip joint, and in both cases that dislocation is downwards; in the shoulder the rent in the capsule is at tlie lower and anterior part, but in the hip it is at the lower and posterior part. Further, observe that in the shoulder, the forward disloca- tions are the most common, but in the hip it is the backward forms. The point at which the head of the bone will ultimately come to rest depends on the direction and amount of the violence, as well as on the position of the limb. Dislocations occur chiefly in men during the middle period of life (twenty to fifty), and is specially apt to be produced in certain occupations, as miners and navvies. The same application of violence in an old person will produce intra-capsiUar fracture of the neck of the bone; in youno persons, fracture of the shaft. . There are Special Test Lines made use of in the thagnosis ot dislocations of the femur and fractures of the neck of the bone.