208 Applied Anatomy: The Right Thumb is amputcated in exactly a similar way, only in this case the Surgeon first makes the palmar flap by transfixion, and then the dorsal one by applying the heel of the knife to tlie web, and cuts up to the end of the first incision, at the base of the metacarpal bone. He then completes the disarticulation as on the left side. o k a \ 2 Oval Method—Racket-shaped Incision (see Eig. 35, A).— This may be used either for the removal of the thumb at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation or at the carpo-metacarpal. Becrin the straight part of the incision at the base of the meta- carpal bone, and carry it along its dorsal aspect (as the hand is held between pronation and supination) to within half-an-mch of the head; from this point an oval is carried round the root of the thumb The two sides of the incision are then drawn apart by an assistant and the operation completed as in the former method The Structures divided. —In all the operations, the skin, superficial and deep fascia, and superficial vessels and nerves. Muscles cut in amputation through the second phalanx of the thumb-(l) Flexor longus pollicis, and (2) extensor secundi mter- nodii pollicis. Through the first phalanx-(l) Abductor poUicis, (2) flexor brevis pollicis, (3) abductor pollicis and (4) the extensor pr mi internodii pollicis, with the previous list as wel Through ?he metacarpal bone-(l) The opponens poUicis, (2) the extensor 0 is mS capollicis, and (3) the first dorsal interosseous, .vi^i he previous two lists as well. So that in amputation tlnm^ t e terminal phalanx, two muscles are divided; through the first iXx, six muscles; and through the metacarpal bone, ":^^ation through the metacarpal bone the Arteries cut ,,e_(l) The princeps pollicis, and (2) the dorsales ix> lie.. T Arteries to be avoided in the same operation are-(l) The ladml nrt-prv and (2) the radialis iudicis. tlno fincrers Should they require removal for mjmy no ol t rvor- .0. aisoaso a^, o,;o ^^^-^^J, r a sing ' ctai incision. Eomoval ot both n>ot«carpa bo,,e am fl„,.o;t=^ be most oonvoniontl, pcvfomed b, the " W o"-a straight clovsal incision, and then oncvchng the ,oot