360 Applied Anatomy: DISLOCATIONS OF THE INNER END. Dislocation of this boue is rare—-(1) Because of the very powerful ligaments of the joint and the thick expanded end of the bone, which gives them a very advantageous attachment. (2) The force is usually transmitted along the long axis of tlie bone, and it is bent, or bi-okeu rather than dislocated. (3) Tlie mobility of the scapula. The strength of the joint is entirely due to ligaments, together with the inter-articular fibro-cartilage ; it has no muscular or bony strength. In the order of frequency the dislocations are :— 1. Forwards.—This is iisually caused by falls or blows on the point of tlie shoulder, or by bending the shoulder forcibly back- wards. The point of th.e shoulder is disjilacccl downwards, forwards, and inwards; the inner end of the bone passes down- wards and inwards, and rests in front of the manubrium stei-ni, and carries its own head of tlie sterno-mastoid with it. It is readily reduced by simply pulling the shoulders in directions the reverse of the displacements, i.e., upwards, backwards, and outwards. But, as in all joints the strength of which depends on ligaments, the difficulty is to keep it reduced. It should be treated in a way similar to that of fracture of the clavicle tlirough its middle—(1) A pad in the axilla, to overcome the inward dis- placement; (2) a figure-of-eight round the shoulders to brace them back and so overcome the forward displacement; and (3) a sling to support the elbow to overcome the downward displacement. In addition to these measures, however, something must be provided to keep the end of the bone in its place till the torn ligaments reunite. NiIilaton recommends an ordinary hernia truss, the spring passing under the opposite axilla, and the pad pressing on the joint; this has to be worn for about two months. 2. Backwards.—Tliis may be caused by tlie point of the slioulder being driven forcibly upwards, or the hand pulled violently forwards; it may also result from direct violence, such as a kick from a horse. It is, further, sometimes secondary to Pott's spinal curvature. The disjjlace^iienfs resemble the lust form, the point of the shoulder being carried inwards, and the liead of the bone resting behind the sterno - hyoid, and tlie