140 Applied Ajintoiiiy: The internal iliac has been tied for aneurism of its "branches and for wounds. It was first tied by Stevens, of Vera Cruz, in 1812, for aneurism of the nates—the woman lived for three years after the operation. He made an incision five inches long, external to and parallel with the deep epigastric artery. Considering the serious nature of the operation, it has been wonderfully successful probably on account of the free collateral circulation preventing any tendency to gangrene. The Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pudio Arteries.—These three branches of the internal iliac artery are found in the gluteal region, beneath the gluteus maximus muscle. They all emerge from the pelvis, through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The trunk of the Gluteal, which is about the size of the ubiar artery, at first lies between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and then passes into the gluteal region lying between the pyriformis and the gluteus minimus muscles, where it divides into a superficial and a deep division. The sux>erfidal part is distributed to the under surface of the gluteus maximus; the deep divides into superior and inferior branches—the superior runs along the middle curved line between the gluteus jnedius and minimus, and anastomoses with the ascend- ing branch of the external circumflex artery; the inferior crosses the c^luteus minimus to the great trochanter. The Sciatic artery appears below the pyriformis; it is larger than the gluteal artery. It anastomoses with the external and internal circimifiex branches of the profunda femoris. Its branches are—(1) LIuscular, or in- ferior gluteal, to gluteus maximus; (2) coccygeal; (3) comes nervi ischiadici; (4) anastomotic. The Pudic artery is seen close beside the sciatic—this vessel is found in three regions-(1) In the cavity of the pelvis; (2) in the gluteal region; and (3) in the perineum. It winds out of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, crosses over the siiine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis by tlie lesser sacro- sciatic foramen above the tendon of the obturator internus. As it lies on the spine of the ischium it has a vein on each side, the nerve to the obturator internus on its outer side, and the pudic nerve internal to it. It is found in the outer wall of the ischio- rectal fossa, within a sheath of the parietal pelvic fascia, and lies about an inch and a half above the lower border of the tuberositj' of the ischium. It is accompanied by two veins and the pudic