Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 115 arm rotated outwards and well abducted and not allowed to re«t ou any support, as this is apt to push up the triceps and displace the vessel (Heath). The operator should stand behind the arm on both sides of the body, but may, if he think it more convenient, sit between the arm and the trunk in both cases. Incision.—This should be about three inches long, and made on the biceps (and not exactly over the vessel) parallel with and close to its inner edge, but avoiding the basilic vein. We divide the skin, fatty tissue, and superficial fascia, and then define the inner edge of the biceps, and draw it aside and cut through the deep fascia carefully, as the basilic vein and internal cutaneous nerve are often found just below it, to the inner side of the artery, and then look for the deep guide: the median nerve close to the edge of the biceps, or crossing the vessel in the bottom of the wound from without inwards. I ought to state that many operators advise that the sheath of the biceps should not be opened, as the vessel can very readily be exposed and tied without doing so. Open the fascia over the median nerve, and then by means of blunt hooks draw the basilic vein and median nerve to the inner side, and the biceps to the outer side (the median nerve may be displaced to the side found most convenient), the assistant who has charge of the arm at the same time bending the elbow to relax that muscle. Separate the sheath from the sur- rounding structures, open it, clear the vessel from its venae comites, and pass the needle fiwn the nerve, at the same time taking care not to injure the vcuEe comites which often surround the vessel with anastomosing loops. The raobility of the vessel, the obliquity of the various structures, as well as the relation of the artery to the basilic vein and median and internal cutaneous nerves, makes the operation sometimes a little difficult. r r RESUME of the chief points in ligature of the brachial artery about the middle of the arm:— 1. Mxtend, abduct, and supinate the arm, take care of tin; basilic vein, and then •-!. iVFakc ill! iucision three inches loJig about tlie middle ol' tin; arm on the edge of the biceps, and then ■>. < )pcn tlie deep fascia over its inner edge, Hex the elbow, and disjilacc it outwards.