Applied Anatomy: 380 variety auay occur wlieu a person is thrown from a trap and alights on the outer aspect of the olecranoii. They are rare—(1) Because of the strong lateral ligaments; (2) the locking of the bones; (3) the great muscular masses at each side; and (4) the great transverse breadth of the joint. ULNA ALONE. The only dislocation of tlus boue is backward, and it is very rare. The head of the radius bears its normal relation to the external condyle; the length of the outer side of the arm is unaltered, but the inner side is shortened. The olecranoii process is displaced backward, and its distance from the internal condyle much increased. The Treatment is the same as for both bones backward. RADIUS ALONE. The usual dislocations of the head of this bone are—(1) For- wards : (2) Backwards; (3) Outwards. 1. Forwards.—This is by far the most common of the three, and is, in fact, the second most common dislocation occurring at the elbow joint. It is caused by indirect violence, as a fall on the hand in supination, -with the elbow joint extended: it may also be caused by direct violence to the bone behind. It occurs very often in young persons. The same form of violence applied to the arm of a person in the imme of life would probably produce fracture of the lower end of the humerus, dislocation of the shoulder, or fracture of the middle of the clavicle; in an old person it ordinard}'' produces fracture of the lower end of the radius (Colles's); but in younri persons the usual result is either a dislocation of the head of the radius forwards, or of both bones backwards: not infre- quently, however, it is a fracture of the lower end of the humerus, immediately above the condyles. The Symptoms are—(«) The head of the radius lies in front of the external condyle, and there is a hollow where it ought to be; {b) the fore-arm is fixed in a state of semiflexion, and either pronated or midway between pronation and supination, on account of the relaxation of the biceps allowing tlie pronators to act; (c) flexion of the joint is suddenly checked by the head of the radius coming into contact with the lower cud