Applied Anatomy: 534 eightli-of-an-inch wide surroimding the cornea, pmh in colour, and consisting of closely packed, straight, and very fine radiating vessels. This injection is sub-conjunetival, and the vessels do not therefore move when the conjunctiva is slid over the globe, nor can they be emptied or affected in any way by pressure. ]\Iarked as these differ- ences are between the injection of iritis and that of conjunctivitis, yet iritis itself must not be diagnosed on these grounds alone, as other conditions produce the same injection. Besides the congestion in iritis, there is the altered colour of the iris, and sluggish action of the pupil to light; there is slight narromng and irregularity of the pupil, and the iris loses its fibrous look and becomes smooth, dull, and muddy. There is deep-seated pain shooting up the side of the head, nose, and eyebrow, which is usually worst in the early morning; the pain is conveyed along the supra-orbital, the supra-trochlear, the infra-trochlear, and the nasal branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. There is further impairment of vision, and often great watering of the eye, and photophobia from irritation of the lachrymal nerve. In Conjunctivitis the pain is smarting and superficial (like sand in the eye), the secretion is rather sticky than watery, and gums the lids together during the nio'ht, and the vision is not impaired except for the moisture in front of the eye. It is very important to distinguish between conjunctivitis and iritis, as the treatment is so different, and the result of a mistaken diagnosis might be serious for the patient. ^ 3. The Veins corresponding to the anterior ciliary arteries (tlie epi-sderal venous plexu><) are sometimes found to be engorged, forming a scanty reticulated zone of dusky colour, with sometuues the lai^-er trunks standing out in a sharply defined manner on the surface of the sclerotic. When this is the case it usually points to the serious condition known as glaucoma—a condition characterised by increased intra-ocular tension, the increased pressure obstructing tiie venous return through the vorticose veins of the choroid. 4 In Sclerotitis (rhcumaUr oiMhalmia) there is usually some conjunctival and subconjunctival injection, but the characteristic feature is the peculiar bluish or violet tint of the sclerotic itselt, due to the injection of numerous minute vessels in its substance. This dusky pink injection is most marked at the edge of the cornea and shades off as we pass backwards, but there is no visible