274 Applied Anatomy: 1. By Long Anterior and Short Posterior Flap.—This is the method usually preferred. The patient is brought well down on the table, so that the knee projects beyond it, while his other leg is secured to a leg of the operating table. One assistant holds the leg in an extended position while the anterior flap is fashioned, another supports the thigh and pulls back the skin. The guides for the anterior flap are the lower and back part of each condyle, and a point an inch or more below the tubercle of the tibia. The flap should be broad and somewhat square-shaped, with its lower angles well rounded, and must be at least five inches long. It will be°convenient for the Surgeon to stand on the right side of the limb to be amputated, so that he may himself raise up the largo anterior flap with his left hand; he should be provided with a short, broad-bladed, amputating knife. The anterior flap is then marked out in the manner indicated, the hgamentum patellar divided, and the integument, with the pateUa and capsule, are dissected up in front of the joint; in this way the articulation is opened. One assistant now flexes the knee joint, and another supports the thigh, while the operator divides the lateral and crucial ligaments, and passes the laiife straight backwards between the bones, turns it down behind the tibia, and cuts a posterior flap fully one-half the length of the anterior. This flap may be made by cutting from behind forwards, instead of from before backwards. In both cases the knife must be made to enter or leave the tissues abruptly, so as to keep the end of the flap squarish and eUvide the popliteal artery transversely. The flap must not be made any slwrt<!r than the length given, as it shows a considerable tendency to retract. The treatment of the pateUa is a disputed point. On the whole, I think. Surgeons are inchned to leave it, as it fills up the hollow between the condyles, to which it may or may not become ankylosed; in any case, it protects the end of the stump, and the position of its bursa makes it useful in supporting the patient's weight. The only objection to this is that it is occasionally drawn up hi front of the thigh by the quadriceps extensor cruris; this may be prevented either by cutting the tendinous insertion of that muscle into the patella, or by " wiring " the pateUa to the condyles by silver wire or strong catgut. If the patella is to be removed it may either be done during the formation of the anterior flap, by