Snrgica/, Medical, and Operative. triceps directing it, in the first instance, forwards; the muscles, too, behind are much stronger than those in front, and therefore the forward dislocations are far more common than the backward. The diflerent dislocations are named according to the position of the head of the bone, in relation to the diflerent bony points around the joint; they will be given liere in the order of frer^uency. 1. The Subcoracoid.—This is generally admitted to be the most conunon form, although the subglenoid, for reasons already given, runs it very close; indeed, some writers give the subglenoid as the juost frequent form. Two forms of subcoracoid are sometimes recognised—(«) Subcoracoid proper, in which the arm is rotated outwards, and the greater part of the head of the bone is beneath the coracoid process; and {h) intra-coracoid, Avhere the arm is rotated inwards, so that the greater part of the head is placed internal to a line falling from the tip of the coracoid process, li. Subglenoid. 3. Sub-clavicular. 4. Subspinous. In all forms Ave liave—(1) Flattening and squareness of the shoulder; (2) a hollow under tlic acromion wliere tlie head of the bone should be; (3) an apparent pirojection of the acromion process; (4) the head of the bone is in an abnormal position; (o) rigidity; (6) pain; and (7) an alteration in the axis of the liumerus, the elbow being Hexed, and the fore - arm supinated. In all dislocations the arm is aAvay from the side: in fractures it is held close to the side, or rather hangs helpless by the side. (8) Another symptom, pointed out by ])r Dugas, is that the l)atient cannot place the fingers of the injured limb on the sound shoulder, nor aUow them to be placed there by the Surgeon, while at the same time the elbow touches the side. The trutl'i of this " pathognomonic tip " I am somewhat inclined to doubt, in reference, at any rate, to subcoracoid occurring in young' loose - jointed persons, witli slightly stooping shoulders, and,' indeed, in any case of dislocation not seen till some days after tlie accident. When the hand is on the o])posite shoulder the liumerus does not lie 1 nmsver>iely to the chest Avail, but very ubUquehj; and there is no reasoJi why, when the spasm of the muscles li.-is passed off, in the form mentioned (the common form), the lingers shouhl not lie on the opposite shoulder, and yet the elbow touch the side. 1 believe ti.ese special " lips " du a