Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 455 Fracture of both Bones—The bones of the fore-arm are more frequently broken together than either the radius or uhia alone. The usual cause is direct violence, as a severe blow, or the ^oassage of a wheel over them, and they, therefore, give way opposite each other. But it may also be caused by indirect violence, when the bones gave way at their weakest parts. One case is quoted, on the authority of IMalgaigne, where muscular action, during digging, was the cause of the fracture. The usual position of the fracture is about the middle or lower thirds. As regards the displacement this will necessarily depend a good deal on the cause of the fracture; m a general way, something like the following will happen .-—The Upper Ends.—The radius is tilted forwards by the biceps, and inwards by the pronator radii teres, and the ulna is tilted a'little forwards by the brachialis anticus. The Lower Fragments.—The radius is pronated, and the two bones are approximated by the pronator quadratus, and are drawn upwards and forwards, or upwards and backwards, according to the obliquity of the fracture by the flexors and extensors. The diagnosis depends on the pain' loss of power, unnatural bend of the fore-arm, crepitus, and the ease with which we can obtain mobility in the continuity of the bones, after fixing their upper ends. Treatment of Fracture of the Shafts of one or both Bones — The great objects are-(l) To keep up the fuU breadth of the in- terosseous space throughout, as this is essential to the movements of pronation and supination; (2) to command the elbow wrist and finger joints, in order to prevent non-union ; and (3) carefully avoid pressure in the flexure of the elbow joint, and on the ball of the thumb. The bones are to be set by extension and counter- extension, applied to the upper arm and wrist by two assistants while the Surgeon manipulates the bones into position. Two splmts are required, rigid, and hroader than the arm; Goooh or ordinary wooden splints may be used; but if Gooch be used' the splints must be padded on the wooden side, and not on the leather side, as in most cases of fracture-e.;;., of the humerus Ihey must be broader than the arm so as to prevent pressure by the bandages on the lateral aspects of the bones, as this would lorcc theiu togetlier and narrow the interosseous space 90) The posterior one must reach from the olecranon process to the