566 Applied Anatomy: notions of our equilibrium or relation to external objects. In all probability, therefore, it is this part of the nerve that is over- whelmed, and unable to grasp the situation, for the time being, when an individual is sea-sick. If this be so, it wiU be at once evident how useless every drug must be, and how effective any drug may be, and this may explain the curious circumstance that every new drug in turn is discovered at last to be tlie remedy for sea-sickness, and hailed with gladness by a suffering humanity. The cocltlear part is distributed to the scala media of the cochlea, being believed to end there in the " organ of Corti." This part of tlie nerve enables us to discriminate the quality of sounds, giving rise in the mind to a distinct musical impression; and the curious part is that one can distinguish a great many musical sounds at the same time. Sound waves can reach the auditory nerve in two ways—(1) through the external auditory meatus, membrana tympani, and ossicles, to the peri-lymph, and thence to the endo- lymph; or (2) through the bones of the head, and, possibly, also the bones of the trunk, and hence the origin and use of the Audiophone, whereby a deaf person (provided the nerve of hearing is not destroyed) is enabled to hear, to a certain extent, by placing it against the teeth. EXAMINATION OF THE EAR. The hearing power may be first tested by ordinary speech, whispering, or the ticking of a watch. Deafness may be due to faults in the sound-perceiving or the sound-conductmg parts of the ear. The internal ear, where the sound-perceiving part is placed, is beyond our reach, but the condition of the nerve can be tested by applying the tuning-fork to the middle of the forehead or to the teeth. In health, the fork should be heard in both ears with equal intensity. If, then, it is heard well in both ears, the fault cannot lie with the auditory nerve, and the cause of the deafness must be sought for in the sound-conducting part (the external and middle ear)! In cases where the fault lies in this part of the organ, then, curiously enough, the tuning-fork is heard best in the deafer ear. When the timing-fork is applied to the forehead or teeth, the vibrations of the bones of tlie head conduct the sound waves to a healthy cochlea, even when the aerial vibrations are prevented