51G Applied Anntoiny: avoid pressure on tlie end of tlie tu"be, lest the other end ulcerate into the vessel. The arm must be bound firmly to the side during the after treatment, pretty much in the same way as is done in fracture of the clavicle. The structures Divided.—(1) Skin, superficial fascia, platysma, sternal, clavicular, and acromial twigs of supra-clavicular nerve, twigs of acromio-thoracic artery, communication from cephalic vein to external jugular, and deep fascia. (2) Muscles—pectoralis major, deltoid, clavicular head of sterno-mastoid, part of the sterno-hyoid, trapezius, and subclavius. (3) Ligaments—of the sterno-clavicular articulation, including the rhomboid; of the acromio-clavicidar articulation, includuig the conoid and trapezoid. In this case also the supra-scapular artery, on account of the position and nature of the tumour. In injuries to the clavicle the veins behind it are very apt to suffer as they are most anterior, but the dense costo-coracoid membrane and the subclavius muscle in most eases protect them from all harm. The descending branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves passing over the bone are important, as they may be implicated in bruises or fractures of the clavicle, or be the seat of reflected pains in disease of the upper cervical vertebrie. THE SCAPULA. This may be removed by a crucial or H-shaped incision. By the H-incision, an incision is made from the acromial end of the clavicle downwards along the axillary border of the scapula to Its inferior angle; from the middle and upper third of this incision another is made at right angles, extending to the posterior border of the bone near the root of the spine. The patient is placed in a semi-prone position, and an assistant commands the subclavian artery by digital compression or a padded key. The flaps are then dissected up, and the acromio-clavicular joint opened. The supra-scapular artery is next found (by feeling for tlie notch m the upper border of the bone and the transverse ligament, over which the vessel passes) and secured; then the posterior scapular is looked for under the levator auguli scapulae, aud also secured. The attachments of the posterior border are then divided and the bone drawn backwards and outwards; then the muscles attached