Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 131 intestines. On its left side—Tho left gaiigliated cord of tlie sym- pathetic and left semi-lunar ganglion. On its right aide—(1) The inferior vena cava; (2) vena az3^gos major; (3) receptaculum chyli. Behind it we find—(1) The left lumbar veins; (2) the vertebral column and thoracic duct; (4) right crus of diaphragm; (5) right semi-lunar ganglion. INCISIONS.—First form, through the peritoneum (Sir Astley Cooper). Make a straight incision four or five inches long in the middle line, curving round the umbilicus, which should correspond to the centre of the incision. Divide the skin, superficial fascia, and aponeurosis forming the linea alba; then stop every bleeding vessel, and after this cut through the transversalis fascia, extra- peritoneal fat and peritoneum. Push the small intestines to the right side, and again divide the peritoneum as it covers the aorta ; carefully separate the aortic plexus from the vessel, isolate it also from the inferior vena cava, which lies to its right side, and pass the needle from the vein. Second form, without wounding the peritoneum (Murray). Make a semi-lunar incision five inches long on the left side of the abdomen, commencing a little below the anterior superior iliac spine, and fully an inch above Poupart's ligament, and carry it at first upwards and outwards, and then curving slightly forwards towards the umbilicus, end a little below the tenth rib. The Structures divided and the method of operating are similar to those described under ligatiu-e of the common iliac arteries (see page 136). The operator stands on the right side. Branches.—The most important branches, from a surgical point of view, arc:—(1) The cceliac axis, the origin of Avhich corresponds to a point four or five inches above the umbilicus ; it is a short trunk, and soon divides into the gastric, hepatic, and splenic ; (2) the superior mesenteric which arises about a quarter-of-au-iucli below the cceliac axis; (3) the renal arteries, which correspond to a point three and a half inches above the umbilicus ; and (4) the inferior mesenteric, about one inch above tlie umbilicus. Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 24)—1. The deep epigastric branch (9) of the external iliac anastomosing with the terminal branches of the internal mammary branch (5) of the first part of the siibclavian and the aortic iutcrcostals (2). 2. The deep circumfiox