49 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. to those wlio arc ever ready to j^in the struggling patient to the operating table—do not grasp the patient's wrists and legs as if you had a mad bull by the horns; do not fight with him, but let him grasp your hand, and all that will then be required will be simply to direct his movements and not to forcibly restrain them. A person under chloroform is like a drunk man—the more you try to resist him, the more he fights. In all cases, there should, as far as possible, be perfect quiet round about the patient until he is under. Alcoholics are specially bad subjects for chloroform, and require special watching and care. At first the struggling is great, and then, almost before one is aware of it, they pass suddenly and deeply under, and are in great danger of paralysis of the heart or respiration from over-dose; and yet, if the chloroform is withdraAvn, they rapidly regain consciousness. In all cases, watch the hreathing above everything else, and see that air is entering the chest. There are two danger signals, as a rule, before the case becomes very serious—(1) Snoring respirations —this is due to vibration, and probably paralysis of the velum palati; and is the signal, in most cases, to remove the chloroform for a time. (2) Laryngeal stertor or stridor, from paralysis of the vocal cords, and which then flap together like a reversed V, and make the entrance of air almost impossible. This is- the signal of real danger, and requires active treatment—stop the chloroform, pull forward the tongue, and, if necessary, put a finger down and separate the cords, and then artificial respiration. The chloroformist must be prepared to give all his attention to his own duty. One of the most annoying sights I know is to see the chloroformist staring inanely at Avhat the operator is doing, or else gazing up at the crowded benches of the operating theatre, just as if he meant to say to the other students, "Am not I a great manT' or "Wouldn't you like to be mcV—perhaps at the very moment when the life of the patient committed to liis care is wavering in the balance. The patient's mouth should, if possible, be turned away from the part being operated upon. I will now give a short rhume of the points tliat must be always kept in mind by the chloroformist under tlirne lieads, after tlie niuniicr of railway signals:— D