285 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 3. The Circular or Modified Circular may also Lc used, lu the luodilieAl circular two equal anterior and posterior semi-lunar llaps of skin are cut according to the method explained elseAvliere; they are tlieu retracted to a distance equal to half the diameter of • the limb, and the muscles divided obliquely down to the bone by a circular sweep of the knife. On account of the unequal retraction, tlic posterior muscles must be cut much lower than the anterior. All the tissues are then retracted, the bone cleared and sawn. ■I. By Lateral Flaps (Vjsrmale).—He introduced this method because the muscles in this part of the limb are chiefly lateral, the central parts in front and behind being tendinous, and, therefore, if anterior and posterior flaps were used they would be thin and tendinous in the middle. Lateral flaps are not so, but have the disadvantages—(1) Of leaving the cicatrix over the end of the bone; (2) they arc difficult to keep in position; (3) the hone tends to he tilted forwards by the psoas and iliacus, and projects at the anterior angle of the flaps; just as the deltoid tilts the humerus m amputation through the middle of that bone by anterior and posterior flaps. It lias one advantage, however, namely, that it provides a free exit for discharges during tlie process of healing. The limb is held as described under Spexce'.s amputation, and the .Surgeon in all cases stands on the outer side of the limb, and the outer flap is always to be made first, as it contains no vessels of consequence. The Surgeon grasps the soft parts on the outer side with Jiis left hand, and draws them outwards, enters the point of tlie knife perpendicularly in the middle of the thigh, about three inches above the upper border of the patella, thrusts It downwards, jxassing closely rouml the bone, and brings it out 111 the centre of the ham; the flap is then cut downwards ami outwards. Tlie knife is again entered at the upper angle of tlio incision, carried closely round the inner side of the bone, taking care not to transfix the femoral artery, and brought out through the lower angle of the first incision, and a flap cut equal in length 0 the external one. The limb is then elevated, tlio flaps retracted, Uio bone cleared, and tlic saw applied about four inclies above the condyles. In certain cases where the tissues arc damaged on one Hide only, it may be found advantageous to use the lateral flap JHcthud; m other cases, however, it ought to be avoided.