163 Siirgicil/, Medical, and Operative. branches of the poiDliteal (20), aud anastoniotica magua below (21). 2. The obturator artery above (4), anastomosing with the internal circumflex artery (11), muscular branches, and anastomotica magna below (21). 3. The chain of anastomoses already mentioned, formed by the perforating arteries, inosculating above with the gluteal (1), sciatic (34), and ascending (7) and transverse branches of the external circumflex (35), and below with the anastomotica magna (21) and articular arteries (23, 20, 22). 4. The terminal branches of the profunda and sciatic arteries above, anastomosing with the anasto- motica magna below (21). (/>) In ligature of the Deep Femoral— 1. The descending branches of the external circumflex above (17), anastomosing with the anastomotica magna (21) and the superior articular arteries below (20, 23). 2. Branches of the internal circumflex above (11), anastomosing with the perforating arteries below (15, 18, 19). POPLITEAL ARTERY. Origin.—It is the direct continuation of the femoral. Extent.— It extends from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibials. Its point of division corresponds to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia in front. Course.—It passes obliquely from the inner side of the femur to the middle of the popliteal space, exactly behind the knee jouit, and then passes straight downwards. The artery lies deeply in the space, and is covered and crossed by the internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein; both vein aud nerve crossing the artery from without inwards (Fig. 33). Behind the knee joint, the artery lies in the middle of tlic space, and is covered (as looked at from beliind) by the nerve and vein, so that if a person receive a stab in this region all the three structures may be injured, or perhaps divided, in the order of nerve, vein, artery. Relations.—In J'ruiif, tlie trigone of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and tlie popliteus muscle covered by its fascia. On the inner skh', semi-membrano.sus, internal condyle, and inner head of gastroc- nemius: to tlie outer side, biceps, outer condyle, outer head of gastrocnemius and plantaris. Behind, popliteal vein, the internal popliteal nerve, and the popliteal fascia, with fat, etc. Its branches