Applied A natoviy : 276 3. By Lateral Skin Flaps (Stkphen Smith, New Yoik).—Two convex lateral incisions are made from a point on the anterior edge of tlie tibia, one inch below the tubercle, and carried down- wards and backwards, round the two sides respectively, over the most prominent part of the side of the leg, and are then directed upwards, reaching the median line posteriorly at a point opposite their commencement. From this a single straight incision is carried directly upwards to the centre of the popliteal space. The flaps are then raised, the ligamentum patellae divided, disarticida- tion performed, and the limb removed. The patella is left, and the internal flap is rather larger than the external. It will be observed that this somewhat resembles the " oval" method of amputation, with the muscles divided obliquely towards the bones. The flaps here form two lateral hoods, one over each condyle; the covering thus provided is good, and the drainage is free behind. According to Mr Bryant, the advantages of this amputation over amputation through the thigh are—(1) Less shock; (2) less section of tissues, and the muscular interspaces of thigh are not opened up ; (3) femur is not cut, and, therefore, the risk is much less ; (4)'the stump is mobile, because the attachments of the muscles of the thigh are preserved; and (5) a very useful stump is left. This methocl may also be used for the leg and lower part of the thigh. I have ouiy seen amputation at the knee performed once, and that was by Professor Chiexe, in a case where the leg was nseless, being too small and partially luxated backwards from previous disease. Two straight lateral incisions were made from a point a little below the condyles of the femur, and then two rectangular flaps formed, the anterior being about twice the length of the posterior; the flaps were then carefully dissected up—the anterior especially requiring great care—to the level of the articulation, the joint opened, and the leg removed. The residt was excellent, a most useful and beautiful stump resulting. In amputation at the knee joint the Structures divided are— 1 The integumentary coverings. 2. Muscles—(a) The lower part of the quadriceps extensor cruris, {b) the adductor magnus, (c) the gracilis (d) the hamstrings, (c) the sartorius, (./•) the gastrocnemius In) thc'plantaris, (A) the solcus, and (i) the popliteus. 3. Vessels -{n) The popliteal artery (in the posterior flap) with its lower