Surgica/, Medical, and Operative. 171 Branches.—(1) J^utricut to tibia—this is tlic laryust iiiitrieuL branch in the body; (2) j^eroncal; (3) muscular; (4) coiuniuuicatiug to peroneal; (5) internal calcauean, several large branches Avhich are distributed to the jDarts about the heel; and (6) the plantar arteries. The Peroneal Branch requires special notice. It is often as large as, or even larger than, the posterior tibial artery, and arises from that vessel about an inch and a half from its origin. At first it passes obliquely outAvards towards the fibula, and then passes downwards behind, and lying close to that bone until about two inches above the ankle, where it divides into its terminal branches. It first lies on the tibialis posticus, and then passes into the substance of the flexor longus hallucis, in which it lies for the rest of its extent. The artery may be ligatured by the same incision as that recommended by Guthrie for ligature of the posterior tibial artery. The posterior tibial nerve forms a safe guide to either of these vessels; it lies almost exactly between, and in close relation to them both—the posterior tibial artery lying immediately to its inner side, while the peroneal branch occupies the same position on its outer .side. The structures divided, therefore, are the same in both cases. It may also be reached in the middle of the leg by an incision three inches long, parallel with and a finger's breadth behind the outer border of the fibula. After the superficial structures are divided, cut through the fibular origin of the soleus, and then separate the flexor longus hallucis from its origin, and towards its inner edge the vessel will usually be found. For this operation the leg must be flexed and laid on its inner side and the Surgeon stands on the outer side. Branches of the Peroneal Artery.—(1) ^kluscular; (2) nutrient to fibula; (.3) communicating to posterior tibial; (4) the anterior peroneal, which is given ofl" about two inches above the ankle, pierces the interosseous membrane, aud passes down in front of the fibula to the outer ankle, and there anastomoses with the external malleolar of the anterior tibial and tarsal branches of the dorsalis pedis; and (5) terminal branches, Avliich pass down to the external malleolus, and anastomose with the external malleolar, external plantar, and tarsal arteries. It will b(! noticed, therefore, that in Avounds ol' the [dantar arch, on account of the anastomoses