482 Applied Anatomy: 2. By Weight and Pulley—For this purpose we require two isosceles triangles of strong sticking-plaster with the selvage removed, each long enough to reach from the malleoli to below the seat of the fracture, or to the middle of the thigh in fractures of the upper part of the femur, or in hip joint disease. In cutting the plasters they should always be cut across the iveb—i.e., the way in which it tears most easUy—and not along it; otherwise the apices of the plasters will not be able to bear the strain. If in doubt as to the proper way, cut a short strip from both directions and try the effect of pulling on them. The difficulty in many cases wiU be to find a web broad enough for the purpose. The bases are split into three tails, and pieces of strong tape are stitched to the apices. The first thing to be done is to shave the leg, if necessary, and then to pad the heel and the maUeoli well and bandage the foot and ankle by figures-of-eight in the usual manner, covering the malleoli well; also place a layer of boracic Hnt over the sides of the knee under the plasters. Now apply the plasters, bandaging the leg and thigh over them, placing plenty of padding around the knee; this is to be continued tiU the base of the plasters is almost reached, when aU or one (the central) of the tails must be turned down over the bandage, and then the bandage continued upwards over the others, and downwards again as far as may be deemed necessary. In applying- this bandage avoid creases and reverses, and leave the plasters^for an hour or so to become firm before applying the weight. The tapes at the apices of the plasters are next passed through buckles attached to the sides of a square piece of wood, slightly broader than the sole of the foot. Through the hole in the centre of this piece pass the end of the cord that supports the weight and secure it there, either by simply knotting it, or by a little bar ot wood The pole bearing the pulley is then to be fastened to the end of the bed in some way so as to project from it at an acute an-le, and directly in a line with the broken limb. Kaise the lower end of the bed and place two blocks, about nine inches high, under its feet; this transforms it into an inclined plane, and a part ot the weight of the patient's body acts as the counter-extending force and obviates the necessity for the irksome perinea ba"d. i o weight is now attached to the cord, and the cord pl^«;^\«^7 pulley, and the extension is completed. A sand-bag is to be placed