Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 295 tlio right leg is to be removed, tlie point of the knife must be entered where it comes out on the left side; that is, it must be entered just cabove the tuberosity of the ischium, and brought out midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the great trochanter. The remaining steps of the operation are the same as on the left side. Everything being ready, the assistant who has charge of the leg, flexes it sUgldlij on the abdomen, and, at the same time, abdticts it a little and rotates it slightly imoards. The knife is then entered as already explained, and the anterior Hap cut downAvards and forwards for about six or eight inches, taking care to keep the flap broad at the point by carrying the knife close to the bone for a considerable distance, and then bringing it out abruptly at the last; the assistant must on no account extend the limb till the flap is completely cut, and, further, the assistant who has charge of the anterior flap with the femoral artery, must not raise the flap at all nor compress it laterally till the knife has cut its way out. Make the anterior flap as" broad as possible; to facilitate this, place the palm of the left hand below the limb and gently raise up the great muscular mass on the inner side and behind. The leg assistant now forcibly abducts, extends, and rotates the limb outwards, while the Surgeon opens the capsule of the joint with the poiiit of the knife, and allows the head to spring out of the cotyloid cavity, and then divides the ligamentum teres. The assistant next allows the leg to hang downwards, so as to bring the head of the femur away from the cavity and put the posterior part of the capsule on the stretch, which the Surgeon also divides with the point of liis knife. The assistant again places tlie limb in the extended jiositiort, in a line irith the body, and rotates it veil inwards, so that tlie great trochanter shall not arrest tlic knife. The operator tlien makes the posterior flap by carrying the knife downwards and backwards, forming a flap about four inches in length, or about half tlie lengtli of the anterior. Tlie arteries in the posterior flap (gluteal and sciatic) often bleed freely and should be at once compressed by a dry flat sponge and tied first, provided the assistant who has charge of the femoral artery has a good hold and is trustworthy. Mr Heath advises the operator to stand on the outer side of the limb in all cases. His ob.jcctiona