236 Applied Anatomy: be necessary from other causes, such as injury, necrosis, onychia maligna, etc., to remove the terminal phalanx, this is best accom- plished in a manner precisely similar to the analogous operations on the fingers—by the formation of a flap from the plantar surface, the neighbouring toes being pulled to one side and flexed by an assistant by means of strips of narrow bandage. THE GREAT TOE. Amputation of the Great Toe at the Metatarso-Phalangeal Articulation.—This may be rendered necessary by injury or joint disease, as suppurating bunion or perforating ulcer, and is best performed by the "oval" or "racket-shaped" forms of incision. It should be borne in mind that the metatarso-phalangeal articula- tions of all the toes are situated at least three-quarters of an inch above the web. On account of the large size of the head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe the operator must take care to leave plenty of flap to cover it well. An assistant shoiild hold the foot extended (toes iwinted) in the first instance, with the sole resting against, and the toes projecting over, the end of the table; the neighbouring toes are to be held aside and flexed, as already indicated, by narrow bits of bandage. The operator then enters the point of a stout bistoury over the middle line of the toe, half-an-inch above the joint, and carries it along the dorsum almost to the middle of the proximal phalanx, opposite which point the "oval" part of the incision is carried round the toe. In doing so, the manipulations of the Surgeon and his assistant resemble those in the "oval" amputation of a finger at the corresponding joint. By commencing the "oval" at the point indicated we do not injure the web, and provide ample covering for the large head of the metatarsal bone, and there is thus less likelihood of the wound having to heal by tedious granulation and cicatricial contraction. The tissues over the end of the phalanx and joint are then to be cleared by passing the bistoury round with a short sawing movement holding it parallel with the phalanx and well under control, and on no account to thrust its point too deeply in the sole, lest the trunk of the anteria mmjna haUucis be injured, or the tissues unnecessarily punctured. After tliis the toe is to be forcibly