Applied A natoiny: 38 the laryngoscope should be used: then, if it he due to pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the abductor will be paralysed, and the cord of that side will be found in the " cadaveric position,'^ but if due to direct pressure on the air tubes, the cords will be widely abducted during inspiration. Further, in laryngeal dyspnuia, the larynx itself moves energetically with respiration, AvhHe in tracheal dyspnma it is stationary. Note, that enlarged bronchial glands may cause spasm of the glottis, as from tubercular, cancerous, or lymphadenomatous affections. 6. Bones are eroded and absorbed, and during the absorption there is severe pain, which is sometimes mistaken for rheumatism. The pain in the earlier stage is usually lancinating, intei-mittent, and neuralgic in character, and is probably due to pressure on the sympathetic or spinal nerves; it radiates in various directions- left side of head and face, left arm, etc. Later, the pain is more of a burning or boring character, and seems to depend on the absorption of the bony tissue and other compact structures. In the case of the vertebras it may cause curvature of the spine, and lead to compression of the spinal cord, at first producing symptoms of motor and sensory irritation, gradually passing into paralysis of all the body below the level of the lesion. In attempting to distinguish between solid mediastinal tumours and aneurism, the following points should be kept in mind:—(1) In the case of aneurism the symptoms vary, being worse after excitement or exertion. (2) A solid tumour may have a communicated impulse, but this impulse is never expansile. (3) Solid tumours neither reproduce the heart-sounds, nor do they give rise to sounds of their own. (4) In solid tumours it is very rare to find any difference in the pulses on the two sides of the body. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS AS TO THE PART AFFECTED. Ascending Part.—On the anterior aspect it may appear as a pulsating tumour between the intercostal spaces on the right side of the sternum; there is increased dullness on percussion to the ricrht of the sternum, and, as the aneurism increases in size, it may compross any or all of the structures in relation to it. In tins