Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 105 in the middle line four inches long, carefully avoiding the external saphenous vein, which empties itself into tlie popliteal vein at the lower angle of the space. We cut through the skin, superficial fascia, cutaneous vessels and nerves; displace the external saphena vein as it lies in the suhcutaneous tissue, and then divide the deep, or popliteal, fascia. The limb must now be flexed, and the tendons, with the internal popliteal nerve, carefully held aside with copper spatulre. Then, by dissecting carefully down amongst the fatty tissue with the handle of the knife, the operator next exposes the popliteal artery and vein, firmly bound together; the vessels must then be separated and the vein displaced to the side most con- venient, and when the artery is cleared the needle must be passed from that side. The vein and the artery are very adherent, so that it is a very difficult proceeding to separate them and clear the artery for the ligature. The walls of the vein are said to be specially^thick, resembling very closely, in fact, the coats of an artery. Tliis may possibly account for the rarity with which this vein is ruptured. The Circulation will be re-established by the superior articular anastomosing with the inferior articular, and other branches around the knee joint. 2. To reach the vessel in its upper third by an incision from the inner side. The limb is to be placed in the same position as in ligature of the femoral. The guide is the posterior edge of the tendon of the adductor magnus, which is attached to the " adductor tubercle," or the outer border of the semi-membranosus Avhich overlaps the artery. An incision, three or four inches long, is made parallel with this tendon, beginning at the junction of the middle with the posterior third of the thigh, avoiding, if possible, the long saphenous vein. After dividing the superficial structures and deep fascia, the tendons of the sartorius and internal hamstrings come into view, and must be displaced backwards by a copper spatula. Then, with the left index finger, feel for the tendon of the adductor magnus, and after tliis dissect carefully tlirough the loose fatty ti.ssue witli the handle of the scalpel, or a director, till the artery is exposed. It is next to be cleared sulliciently, and the needle passed from the outer side to avoid the popliteal vein, ^iid the internal popliteal nerve, which lie on that side of the artery 111 tins position (sec Fig. 3:i).