99 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and ninth nerve. After this it passes through a groove in the posterior and upper border of the sub-maxillary gland, where it makes a sigmoid flexure, crosses the lower jaw, lying on the bone, in a little hollow just about the point where the body joins the ramus, and imme- diately in front of the masseter muscle, and only covered by the sldn, fascia, and platysma. Here its pulsations can be felt during life, and it may be readily compressed with the finger, or ligatured by an incision one inch in length parallel with the fibres of the masseter. The Surgeon stands on the same side as the vessel to be tied. At its origin in the neck it may be tied through an incision, similar to that used by Mr Annandale for the lingual, only a little higher up; displace the posterior belly of the digastric with the stylo-hyoid, and the sub-maxillary gland upwards and forwards, carefully work through the venous plexus, isolate and tie the vessel. After this, its general direction is towards the angle of the mouth, the angle of the nose, and the inner angle of the eye, but in a very tortuous manner. In its com-se through the face it is covered by the superficial structures and platysma, and that special jsart of the platysma known as the risorius muscle: it is also covered by the zygomatic muscles, and crossed by branches of the facial nerve. It rests on—(1) The lower jaw; (2) buccinator; (3) levator anguli oris; (4) levator labii superioris. The facial vein lies posterior to the artery on the face, and is more superficial in the neck, as the artery passes through the substance of the sub-maxillary gland, whereas the vein passes over its surface. It is further less flaccid than most superficial veins, and remains patent after it is cut across. PECULIARITIES.—The facial artery may arise by a common trunk Avith the lingual. Sometimes it terminates as the sub-mental, and in other cases may only supply the face as high as the angle of the mouth or nose. BRANCHES.— In neck.—(1) Inferior or ascending palatine, which passes upwards between the stylo-glossus, and the stylo- pharyngeus muscles supplying them, the tonsil, and the Eustachian tube, and sends a branch through the space of Morgagni to the soft palate. (2) Tonsillar, which perforate the superior constrictor to reach the tonsils. (3) Glandular to sxdj-niaxillary gland. (4) Sub- mental, given off immediately below the lower jaw to the chin.