429 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the shoulder being earned outwards Avlieii tliu elbow is pressed to llie side. Tliis also is objectionable, because of the compressioTi it exerts on the axillary vessels and nerves, causing great pain and a3denia at first, and probably paralysis afterwards. The dniimward displacement is best counteracted by I'aising the elbow. The arm is firndy fixed to tlio side by a broad domett bandage, so guided that it will also sup])oi't the elbow of tlie injured side. Or a special sling may be used. {^0 By Three Handkerchiefs.—1. One, folded diagonally, is rolled round a pad of wool, and the pad is placed in the axilla of the nijured side, the ends being crossed on the top of the opposite slioulder over a small pad, and thence under the axilla, Avhich IS also padded, and the ends tied in front over a small pad ot wool. 2. The second, also folded diagonally, is applied as a sling over the opposite sh.^uldei' to su])port the elhou; and the base of the triang]., is therefore applied to this point; the fore-arm is Hexed at nii acute angle and laid so that the fingers almost touch the shoulder of the opposite side. .3. Tiie third, is applied round tlie trunk an.l elbow, so as to fix tlie arm to the side. In order to get rid of the axillary pad we may adopt Veli-kau's plan—VIZ., to carry the elbow of the injured side Avell across the '■best, pushnig it upwards at the .same time, so that the hand rests on the opposite shoulder, and fixing it there by bandages, in the same way that the arm is fixed uj. in cases of excision ol tlie breast. By this means the point of the shoulder is pushed directly backwards, upwards, and outwards-the side of the chest being the fulci-um, and the humerus the lever. (/') Sayre's Method.-Two pieces of adhesive plaster spread upon strong calico or moleskin, al,out three and a half inches wide or less, according to the size of the patient, and for an adult, about two yanls in length. On one of the pieces a loop is made and ddd.ed sv\ndi is passed round the arm of the injured side about I S nnddle third; the loop must be quite loose, so as not to compress the ves.sel.s, and the non-adhesive side of the plaster next the skin so that the adhesive side of the rest of the plaster may be next the '•ody l!y means of this piece th<- arm is drawn well badaxar<h, an. hen the plastcn. is carried round the body one and a half times f nd the end stitclied to the first turn. The second piece passes from