Surgy'ar/, ]\[cdical, and Operative. 101 of the limb during the after treatment. In the fore-arm the long flap should Le taken from the dorsal surfaee—thougli, as a matter of fact, the dorsal surface of the fore-arm corresponds to the anterior surface of the leg. Elsewhere it must come from the anterior surface, provided there is no special reason to the con- trary—as in amputations of the foot, ankle, and wrist joiutj in these situations the opportunity of getting a pad so fitted by Zs'atui'c for the purpose intended, having been previously accus- tomed to bear weight, outweighs every other consideration. 5. Try to save as mucli of the sound limb as possible, for the nearer Ave apjjroach tlie trunk the greater is the danger to the piatient; and besides, the longer tlie stump tlie more power will he possess over any artificial limb. Tlie longest stumps can be obtained by the " modified circular" or equal anterior and posterior flaps. This, however, must not be obtained at the expense of other ecjually important principles, as good drainage, posterior position of scar, etc. Position of the Surgeon.—In regard to the position of the >Surgeon during tbe various amputations many things will have to be considered. Tor example, in performing flap am]_mtatioit:<, many Surgeons prefer to stand in sucli a Avay that tliey will be able to control the flaps with the left hand, and if necessary, the main artery, and afterwards the stump—i. c, always on the right side of tlie limb—trusting to the assistant to steady the limb during the application of tlie saw; while others prefer to stand on the other side, so that they tlicmselves may grasp the part to be removed in the left band, and steady it during tbe use of the saw, while tlie assistant raises the anterior flap. The latter method will have to be adopted in cases where assistants are few, or Avliere the Surgooji operates single-handed. During transjixion o[jeralions it will, on tlie whole, be more convenient to stand on the left side of tlie limb to be amputated. In operations on the hands and feet, wrist and ankle, the Hurgeon will stand in fi'ont of and facing the part operated upon. Further, tlie convenience of bystanders and students must to a certain extent be consulted, the fSurgeon standing in such a, way as not to obstruct the view any more than he (iiu help. In u general way, it may bo stated that in Hap amputations by dissection [lUre ami simple, (H wIhtc the anterioi'