Applied A natomy: 26G therefore, it is not necessary to provide so long an anterior flap in order that the line of the cicatrix he placed well behind. 1. Long Anterior and Short Posterior Flaps. —The flaps at first consist of skin and subcutaneous fat only, with muscular tissue taken up towards their bases; in the case of the posterior do not take too much muscle. The limb is held in a way simHar to that of the previous amputations, and rotated loell inwards, so as to throw the fibula well forwards. The operator takes his stand on the right side of the limb to be removed, so that he can grasp the limb above the point of amputation, and, in the case of the right leg, places his thumb on the fibula, and his forefinger at a corresponding point on the opposite side, which will, therefore, be considerably behind the inner edge of the tibia. On the left side the position of the thumb and finger will be reversed, as the operator then takes his stand inside the limb. He then marks out a broad skin flap, equal in length to two-thirds of the diameter of the limb, the heel of the knife commencing well behind the tibia, its blade sweeping across the front, and its point ending a little behind the thumb; next, without removing the laiife from the incision, he transfixes the limb behind the bones, taking care not to pass the knife between them, and making it enter and emerge through the angles of his former incision, so that the blade wiU pass close behind the fibula, but at some little distance from the tibia. A short posterior flap, about half the length of the anterior, is then cut from within outwards; while the posterior flap is being cut, the assistant holding the foot must keep the muscles tense by dorsiflexing the foot forcibly, while the operator or another assistant pulls up the skin as far as possible. This insures the skin being cut longer than the other tissues, and avoids redundancy of muscle. The operator must next raise the anterior flap, which at first should consist entirely of integumentary structures, but, as its base is approached, as much muscular tissue as possible should be taken up, to insure its mitrition; both flaps are then to be well retracted by the assistant standing opposite the Surgeon, while the Jcnife is swei)t circularly round the Hmb at the base of the flajjs. The interosseous structures are then to be divided by the usual figure-of-eight-like SAveep of the knife, taking care not to allow its edge to be directed upwards in the least, lest