Applied Anatomy: 174 beginning one incb below the head of the fibula. Another way is to carry the incision from near the edge of the tibia, downwards and outwards, obliquely across the line of the vessel towards the external malleolus; by this incision one more easily detects the inter-muscular space separating the tibialis anticus from the other muscles. In this operation the guide is the anterior tibial muscle. Divide the skin and fascia, and expose the muscular aponeurosis. The inter-muscular septum between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum (the long extensor of the great toe, not arising so high up on the fibula as this muscle) is next to be found and divided to the same extent as the superficial incision; great care is necessary lest the septum between the common extensor and the peroneus longus be opened instead of this one, and so the operator be led away from the artery, but the proper septum is first white line from the anterior edge of the tibia. To prevent such a mistake, it will be well to bear in mind that the septum between the tibialis anticus and the common extensor is very lomli, so that the two muscles are very readily separated; whUe the septum between the common extensor and the peroneus longus is very strong, so that these muscles are separated with difficulty (see Fig. 34). This is all the more important to remem- ber, because the common extensor is very narrow above, and the operator is very apt, therefore, to open the septum between it and the peroneus longus. The ankle being flexed the two muscles— the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum — are separated and held aside with copper spatulse, and the artery is then found lying on the interosseous membraue, with the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. It is separated from its venfe comites, and its sheath opened and the vessel cleared, and the lirrature passed from the outer side. It is rarely, if ever, tied at at°its upper part in the living body, except for a wound, which is then, of course, taken as the guide to the vessel. Were it, how- ever considered necessary to do so, make the patient throw the tibialis anticus into action by flexing the ankle or inverting the foot before he is put under an anajsthetic, and mark its outer border. It is better in making the skin incisions to make them slightly oblique, downwards and outwards, as it will then be easier to find the septum between the anticus and the extensor