Applied Anatomy: 428 coraco-clavicular ligament, and therefore cannot fall down. This fracture is usually caused by direct violence. Qommimded fracture of the clavicle is dangerous because of its close relation to important vessels and nerves. The structures most likely to be wounded in fracture are the veins and the cords going to form the brachial plexus. The late Sir Egbert Peel in this way got a diffused false venous aneurism from a fall from his horse in Hyde Park, which was ultimately fatal. Accidents of this kind are, however, fortun- ately rare, probably on account of the dense fascia which underKes the clavicle, and the subclavius muscle, protecting the vessels from injury. TREATMENT OF FRACTURED CLAVICLE. The most certain method to secure union without deformity, is to keep the patient fiat on his back in bed with a small pillow between the shoulders, for about three weeks, till the fracture unites; the head is placed on a thin pillow, and the arm bound to the side, with the fore-arm across the trunk. In this position the blade of the scapula is pressed close against the ribs, and in this way its outer angle, with the humerus and acromion process, is pulled outwards and backwards, and the recumbent posture removes the weight of the arm, which is the chief cause of the downward displacement. This plan may therefore be adopted in cases where it is specially desirable to avoid deformity, e.g., m the case of young ladies. This plan mud be adopted also in complicated and comminuted fractures, and in cases where both clavicles are broken at once. I For Fractures internal to the Coraco-Clavicular Ligament. —Whatever plan is adopted it must fulfil three conditions; as to the exact method there are no hard and fast rules, provided the deformity is remedied. The conditions are that the shoulder must be drawn—(1) outwards, (2) upwards, and (3) backwards. _ 1. The shoulder may be drawn hadarards by a figure-of-eight bandac^e round the shoulders and stitched behind. But this is objected to, because the front turns of the bandage may press on and displace the inner end of the outer fragment. ^' The inward displacement may be overcome by an axillary I,adrwhich acts as a fulcrum to the upper end of the humerus,