Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 39 part of the arcli tlic aneurism rarely reaches a large size before it bursts iuto the pericarJiuui, since this part has no fibrous sheath like other arteries (those of the brain excepted), causing sudden death by by filling it and stopping the heart. It may also open into the superior vena cava, giving rise to a continuous murmur of a peculiar character. Should the aneurism be situated on the posterior aspect, it may give rise to no symptoms except accentuation of the second sound in the aortic area, and delay of the radial pulse. Transverse Part.—When on the convex aspect it tends to pass to the right side of the sternuiu, or it may present at or above the manubrium sterni in the middle line; the cardiac plexus is frequently pressed on, causing angina-like pains; and the voice is altered from pressure on the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, simulating laryngitis, or, more serious, laryngeal disease. Dysjmoea is an urgent symptom from pressure upon the trachea, bronchi, pulmonary veins, or left recurrent laryngeal nerve; it may also produce cough and haemoptysis, and ultimately burst into the trachea, producing fatal hgemorrhage. It may further involve the thoracic duct or oesophagus, and cerebral disturbances are common from interruption of the circulation through the carotid arteries; and when the innominate or left subclavian are involved, there will be weakness and delay of the pulse at one or other wrists. It is very difficult to differentiate aneurism of this part from aneurism of one of the arteries at the root of the neck; but in the case of aortic aneurism the tumour is seen to have no defined lower boundary on percussion. There is usually well-marked oedema, from pressure on the neighbouring veins. Descending Part.—Tiie symptoms are obscure. There is dull- ness on percussion over the back or front, in both cases to the left of the median line, and later the appearance of a pulsating tumour. There is marked erosion or absorption of the vertebra), giving rise to severe pain, referred either to back or chest, and radiating round the interco.stal nerves of the left side; pressure on the left bronchus or trachea, and displacement of the left lung; pressure on the oesophagus causing dysphagia, probably the most distressing symptom of aneurism in tliis region. To these may be added the symptoms of pressure on the thoracic duct and veins of the chest- Avall together with delay of tlie femoral i)ulse.