Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 513 5. Divide it by saw aud boue forceps a little to one side of the symphysis. 6. Depress the divided ramus, and divide the attachment of the temporal muscle into the coronoid process— " the Imj of the operation." 7. Open the joint/?'ow the front, taking care of the internal maxillary artery aud vein and their junction with the temporal vessels ; also the auricido-temporal nerve and the middle meningeal artery. 8. Complete the disarticulation by depressing the jaw and at the same time carr^^ing it horizontaUy outwards : secure all bleeding vessels and stitch up the external wound, if possible suturing the edges of the mucous membrane together to shut out the saliva. THE OS CALCIS. In excising this bone avoid making any incision in the sole For this purpose the best form of incision to use is the following-— The patient is laid on his face, and a horse-shoe-shaped incision IS carried from a point a little in front of the calcaneo-cuboid articulation round the heel and along the side of the foot to a corresponding point on the opposite side. The flap thus outlined IS then dissected down over the prominence of the os calcis keeping the edge of the knife close to the bone, exposing the whole of Its under surface. Then a perpendicular incision is made, about two inches long, behind the heel and through the tendo aclullis, opening into the former incision; the tendon is then divided, and the flaps dissected up, and the knife passed between the os calcis and the astragalus, and the stron^r inter- osseous ligament divided; aud lastly, its attachment to the°cuboid IS divided and the bone removed. Great care is necessary in cleanng the inner side of the os calcis from the large number of vessels, nerves, and tendons at that side. Structures Divided.-(l) The skin, superficial and deep fascia and cutaneous vessels and nerves. (2) Muscles—the tendo achillis' extensor brevis digitorum, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis digitorum, plantaris, accessorius, abductor hallucis, and the pro- longation of tibialis posticus to the lesser process of the os calcis ; 2 ic