.322 Applied Anatomy: For tlie purpose of drainage a tube must be introduced well into the Avound, and its lower end brought out at the lower angle of the incision ; in cases -where there is a sinus on the inner side of the joint, it should be utilised for drainage, and the whole of the longitudinal incision stitched up closely. In sharp-spooning any sinuses on the inner aspect of the joint, be very cautious lest you scrape through the ulnar nerve, as it miglit be lying in the softened mass of tissue, and more especially in distortions of the joint, due to disease or injury. After Treatment.—In excision for Disease we must guard against ankylosis. After the operation the wound is encased in a thick wrapping of antiseptic dressing, slightly flexed, and laid on a pillow, no splints being required, except, say, a lead splint to steady it. ■ Sometimes it is found to be more grateful to the patient to place it in the extended position with a lirjld weight attached to the wrist, to prevent the bones coming into actual contact. This plan is to be strongly recommended as the best preventive against ankylosis, the Aveight being just sufticient to steady the parts, and not to separate them too Avidely; nor must it be used too long lest the opposite extreme be reached, and a " flail-lilce " joint residt. It is kept thus for ten days, and at the end of that time the Aveight is removed every morning, and the arm flexed as far as the patient can comfortably bear it, and left tlius till night, when the weight is again re-applied. By tlie end of three weeks the hand shoidd be able to touch the patient's nose, back of head, etc. If the Aveight is not employed, after the first inflammatory symptoms have passed off, and union by the first intention taken place—say, at the end of a week or ten days—passive movement should be commenced, at first merely altering its position from day to day: flexed one day, extended the next, and so on. Later, however, the movements must be more extensive, and pronation and supmation added. When the patient leaves his bed, Avhich he should be able to do in a few days, the arm must be carried in a sling mid- Avay betAveen pronation and supination, the thumb upperniost, but extended during the night and a light weight applied. The after treatment of excision for Injury, however, differs somewhat from the above, because the great danger in this case is the possibility of a useless " flail-like " joint, especially in cases where much bone