Applied A natoniy: 24G The third plan (see rhume) is probably the best. The dorsal flap is formed as in the first method; next the plantar is shaped and dissected np, as at the beginning of the second method; and finally the bones are disarticulated. The vessels requiring ligature are —(1) The dorsalis pedis at the apex of the dorsal flap, (2) internal plantar, (3) external plantar, and (4) numerous branches of the plantar arch and dorsal plexus of veins. By making tbe sliort dorsal flap the cicatrix is placed rather on tbe front of the stump, and is thus opposed to the soft padding J whereas, were it on tlie dorsum, it might be injured by tbe pressure of tbe boot. The objections to the tarso-metatarsal amputation (Hey, or LiSFBANc), as thus described, are—1. If practised in a diseased foot, probably tbe other bones and joints ^^all also be diseased and lead to a return of the mischief. 2. If for accident, it is far too elaborate and complicated, and more especially as the anterior parts of the foot are smashed, and therefore Ave have no advantage of leverage to assist in disarticulation; a simpler and better way being simply to dissect back a sufficient sole flap, and then saw the bones across at any convenient point, irrespective of articulations. This plan has further a special advantage, as it may leave the front of tbe foot a little longer, wbicb wUl thus form a more effective lever to oppose the tendo acbillis. MEDIAN TARSAL ARTICULATION. Chopart's Amputation (Fig. 45 C).—This operation consists in the amputation of the foot at its transverse articulation—z.e._, the articulations between the astragalus and the scaphoid on the nrner side, the cuboid and tbe os calcis on the outer side; m other words, tbe removal of tbat part of the foot that lies in front of the OS calcis and astragalus. The shape of the articulation is alternately concave and convex—on the inner side it is convex forwards (due to the rounded head of tbe astragalus), but concave forwards on the outer side. The manipulations of the Surgeon, the duties of the assistant, and the three methods of raising the flaps, resemble very closely the corresponding stages of the pre- vious operation, so that they need not be repeated m detail.