S/irg-Zar/, JMu-a/, and Operative. m THE FEMUR. Tliis boiiG is developed from five centres, that for the sliaft appearing soon after the centre for the clavicle. At the npper end there are three centres—one for the head, Avhich appears at the end of the first year; another for the great trochanter, which appears dnrmg the fourth year; and a third for the lesser trochanter, which appears between the thirteenth and fourteenth years. All the three join the shaft about eighteen (Fi^r 95) There IS only one centre for the lower end of the bone, and that appears in-o vecl-s before birth and joins the shaft at twenty years of age (Fig. 96). The presence or absence of this centre is an im- portant sign of the maturity or otlierwise of newly-born children lound dead, m medico-legal cases. For medico-legal purposes also,' compare the development of the femur with the humerus- the tower end of tlie humerus is complete at eighteen, the upper end at twenty; in the femur it is the reverse, the loiver end is complete at twenty, and the tipper end at eighteen. A knowledge of these tacts, together with the dentition-all the teeth being present except the wisdom, and the presence of an ossifying centre in the epiphysis of the clavicle, which appears about eighteen, - would enable one to speak with considerable assurance upon the a-e o a body say of eighteen years, though reduced to a skeleton. Obsei-ve the gi^eat number of epiphyses in the neighbourhood of he hip joint-three in the femur, and the Y-shaped one at the bottom of the acetabulum. This, no doubt, explains the very great fi-eauency of hip disease {dnmous a,ihrHis) in early life as probably in most cases the disease begins at the growing line of the bone as there the tissue is nearest the embryonic t^pe, and .the vascularity is great, so that any slight stimulus is enough to convert the phy.siological hypera^mia into pathological congestion It also explains why it is that the femur should be attacked more requently than the acetabulum: one would expect the femur to be attacked three times as often as the acetabulum. It will bo notu^ed, therefore, that, as usual, the order of union of the centres IS the reverse of their appearance. The femur grows in length cluelly from the lower epiphysis. The line of this epiphysis iust passes through the ^'adduHur l,d>nrU^^ i.u^ediately above