Applied Anatomy: 406 THE PATELLA. This bone may be dislocated :— 1. Outwards.—This is the most common form, from the slope of tlie femur and quadriceps extensor, which pass downwards and inwards, making an angle Avith the ligamentum patelte, which passes vertically downwards. When, therefore, the quadriceps is suddenly brought into play it tends to assume a straight line with the ligamentum patella?, and jerks the patella itself outwards. The causes, therefore, are sudden muscular contraction, especially in those who have a tendency to knock-knee, or a blow on the inner side of the patella during extension—similar blow dm-ing flexion would cause fracture. The patella rests on the outer surface of the external condyle Avith its inner margin directed forwards. The leg is usually slightly flexed; very frequently the dislocation is only partial. 2. Inwards.—This form is almost unknown. To reduce lateral dislocations—Place the patient on his back, flex the thigh on the abdomen, and extend the knee joint, so as to relax the quadriceps extensor, and then depress the edge of the patella which is further from the middle line, so as to raise the other edge and free the bone, when the quadriceps wUl at once pull it into position. 3. Vertically.—Usually the outer (Malgaigne), sometimes the inner edge, of the patella is twisted into the inter-condyloid notch, and there fixed. The jouit is completely extended. It is usually caused by sharp blows or severe falls on one side of the pateUa. To reduce is often a difficult matter, probably from the wedging of the bone in the notch, or else from its being held by a slit in the capsule. Chloroform will be necessary, so as to paralyse the muscles, when flexion, combined with sudden extension _ and rotation of the tibia, will probably replace the bone. Division of ligaments and tendons should be avoided, as the division does no good, and may do a great deal of harm. 4 U pwards —This can only occur when the hgamentum patelhv is ruptured, or torn from its attachment, when the quadriceps extemsor pulls the bone upwards. It may also be displaced downwards, from nipture of the quadriceps extensor. The Treatment is the same as that for fractured patella ((piod vide).