216 Applied Aval amy until tlie level of the upper border of the posterior annular ligament is reached, when the knife is carried through everything to the bones. This is to avoid the difficulty experienced in dissecting the tendons from their grooves on the back of the radius and ulna, without damaging them. In Mr Heath's plan there is also less difference between the length of the two flaps—his anterior being one-third the length of the dorsal, instead of one-fourth, as in Mr Teale's method. 4. As in other situations, the Circular "Triple Incision" may be used. The arm is held at right angles to the trunk, midway between pronation and supination, by an assistant, who also forcibly pulls up the integuments. The operator may conveniently stand behind the arm on the right side, and between the arm and the trunk on the left side; by so doing he is better able to retract the integumentary sheath, as he then can take hold of it with liis left hand. UPPER TWO THIRDS OF THE FORE-ARM. Amputation may be performed in this situation by—1. Equal Antero-posterior Flaps, made by Transfixion, or, better, the dorsal one made by dissection and the anterior by transfixion. 2. Long Posterior Flap, chiefly composed of integumentary structures with a little muscular tissue taken up at its base, and an Anterior Flap of half the length. 3. The IVIodified Circular method. In making the anterior flap by transfixion, the kuife should be brought out rather sharply at tlie end, in order to keep up the full breadth of the flap, and cut the vessels and nerves transversely. It will thus, be square-shaped rather than semi-lunar, and should be about three inches long. If the posterior flap is formed by transfixion, the arm is held between pronation and supination, the soft parts at the sides of the fore-arm are grasped, and as much of them as possible drawn towards the posterior aspect of the limb, so as to secure as broad a flap as possible. For the anterior flap, supinate the fore-arm and enter the kuife half-an-inch lower down tlian the previous transfixion point, to avoid cross-cutting the base of the dorsal flap. The bones are then cleared an inch above the point of transfixion, and divided.