198 Applied A natoviy : A very excellent method is to make anterior and posterior semi- lunar flaps of sufficient length by dissection. THE SECOND PHALANGES. The second phalanges may be amputated in exactly similar ways. An objection, however, to the amputation of a second phalanx is that we remove the entire attachments of the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus tendons—the sublimis being attached to the sides of the second phalanges, and the profundus to the base of the terminal phalanx. The broad expansion, how- ever, of the common extensor that covers the back of the first phalanx is left, and forms new attachments, and therefore the stump remains fixed, it is said, in the extended position, being neither ornamental nor useful, but positively in the way. One might, however, on purely anatomical grounds, suppose that it would not be quite so useless, for into this same expansion are inserted the lumbricales (the so-called "fiddler's mnsdes"), and the interossei muscles. Now, the lumbricales act as flexors of the first phalanges and extensors of the other two, while the interossei also act as flexors of the same phalanges, in addition to their more evident actions of abduction and adduction. This is theoretical, and experience alone is competent to decide the question. In the case of a single finger, therefore, it has usually been the custom, in circumstances requiring the amputation of a second phalanx, to remove the whole finger; in cases, however, requiring the removal of two or more fingers, it would manifestly be better to leave the first phalanges. Probably, also, in the case of the index finger it had better be left to act as an opponent to the thumb, but on this point Surgeons are not agreed. No doubt, the amputation of a single finger, as usually performed, weakens the grasp of the hand considerably; but there is no reason why the irhoh of the first phalanx should be removed, its base might be preserved, and this would leave the joint intact, and at the same time keep up the full breadth of the hand. Since writing the above, in 1887, I have had many opportunities, at the ]ulinburgh Koyal Infirmary and elsewhere, of testing the correctness of the old teaching on this subject, and I think there can be but little doubt that the old tcadiers were wrong-I mean, laboured under a misapprehension.