Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 535 anastomoses. There is also some thickening of the sclerotic from inflammatory eftusion. This condition is found in middle-aged patients of a rheumatic constitution and is usually limited to a small area close to the edge of the cornea; in young adults it is nsually gonorrhoeal in nature, and resembles, as regards its pathology, a similar condition attacking certain large joints, and other fibrous tissues, such as the tunica albuginea of the testicle. It is apt to involve the ciliary processes and iris; when this takes place there will be deep-seated pain and injection, and great sensitiveness of the eye to touch in the ciliary region, together with slight irregularity of the pupil. "When the condition passes oflp it leaves the sclerotic thinned and of a bluish tint from deep-seated pigmentation, and may even be a cause of anterior staphyloma. The Cornea itself is non-vascular, but in interstitial keratitis, where the cornea becomes like ground glass, a condition so frequently associated with congenital syphilis, blood-vessels from the periphery often penetrate into its substance at some little distance from the surface. This gives rise to a patch of peculiar colour—the " salmon patch" of Hutchinson; with a lens, the "patch" can be seen to consist of a fine, straight, and closely packed plexus of vessels. To confirm this, look for the signs of congenital syphilis, such as—(1) The notched, pegged, and widely separated upper central incisors; (2) sunk bridge of the nose; (3) hazy cornea from old interstitial keratitis; (4) radiating scars at the angles of the mouth; (5) prominent forehead; (6) the patient probably the eldest of the family; and (7) the presence of clwroiditis disseminata. Myopia is a not uncommon result of interstitial keratitis; this is caused by the projection forwards of the cornea, due to thinning of its layers as a result of the inflammation, but is also partly the result of increased intra-ocular tension. Further, in the condition known as "pannus," there is a new growth of very vascular tissue just beneath the corneal epithelium, over part of the surface (usually the upper part) of the cornea. The usual cause of pannus is granular lids ((jranular conjunctivitis or trachoma) where the conjunctiva of the lids is studded with minute elevations which constantly irritate the cornea. This con- dition of the lids is caused by exposure to heat and glare, and is much more common in Palestine than in this country.