112 Applied Anatomy: Collateral Circulation (sec Fig. 18).—If tied above the sub- scapular branch, it is the same as when the first part is ligatured. If tied below this branch, the collateral anastomoses are small, but usually sufficient—1. Anastomoses between branches of the posterior circumflex (9) and the superior profunda (16). 2. Anas- tomoses between branches of the subscapular (13) and the superior profunda (16). 3. Anastomoses through the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and the long head of the triceps—muscular branches. 4. Through the shaft of the humerus. An Axillary Aneurism presents as a pulsating tumour im- mediately below the clavicle, under the gi-eat pectoral or at the anterior fold of the axilla. There is pain and numbness in the arm and hand from pressure on the brachial plexus, and oedema from pressure on the axdlary vein; the symptoms have been often mistaken for rheumatism of the arm and shoulder, and rubbing and other remedies recommended, without a proper examination. At first it presses principally on the nerves of the axQla, but as it enlarges it tends to curve forwards, bulging the anterior wall before it In ligature, special care must be taken not to woimd ■ the axillary vein itself, nor any of its feeders close to their junction with it, as air is apt to be sucked in by the aspirating power of the thorax, and also because the fascia in this region is adherent to the vein and prevents its collapse; and for a like reason it bleeds very severely when wounded. The Axillary Vein is formed by the union of the basilic with the vense comites of the brachial, usually at the lower border of the subscapularis muscle. Aneurism m thi.s rec^ion is common on account of the movements of the hmb, and itriiability to share the effects of injuries, such as sudden wrenches and contusions. . BRANCHES.-Of the First Part-(l) The superior thoracic, (2) acromio-thoracic, or thoracic axis, situated at the nW^^^f^^ of the pectoralis minor. From the Second Part-(l) The long thoracic or external mammary, which runs along in the ani.rm- fold of the axilla at the loicer border of the pectorahs minor to the mammary region; and (2) alar thoracic. From the Third Part- (1) The subscapular artery, which runs along m the posteno^ fold y the axilla at the lower border of the .-^«7-l-- -"^f^ ^ (2) posterior circumflex; and (3) anterior circumflex. These two