292 Applied Anatomy: 2. Esmarch's Elastic Tourniquet, applied to the Aorta.— A pad of sufficient size is adapted over the aorta, a little above the highest points of the iliac crests, and pressed down by elastic bands. To avoid circular compression of the body, a narrow piece of board, or some such contrivance, is placed transversely beneath the back and made to project beyond the sides of the body; lateral notches are made in it, or hooks are attached to it, at a sufficient distance to protect the sides from com- pression, and at the same time to serve to fix the elastic bands. EsMARCH himself recommends, in absence of any other instru- ment, the following plan :—A common roller bandage, about two and a half inches wide and eight yards long, is to be rolled round a stick about the thickness of the thumb, and nine inches long. The pad tlius formed is held in proper position by the end's of the stick, while several turns of elastic bandage are passed round the body, so as to press it forcibly against the spine. An assistant keeps the pad in proper position by means of the stick. An objection to this plan (and all plans) of elastic compression is, that should the patient vomit, cough, or struggle, the forcible contraction of the abdominal muscles lifts the pad from the arota and relaxes the compression. 3 Esmarch's Elastic Tourniquet, applied to the Extreme Upper Part of the Thigh.—The limb is emptied of blood by vertical elevation for a few minutes, and then an elastic band, strong enough to require the whole strength of the Surgeon to stretch it twice its length, is applied. A piece of bandage is first laid upon the middle of the groin in the line of the limb, and a similar piece placed behind, well below the great trochanter, over which the tube is to be applied. These are to be held by an assistant, who thus prevents the band from slipping downwards over the flaps during disarticulation; the assistant must be warned not to pull too hard lest he stretch the elastic band and thus raise it off the vessel. The scrotum being held aside, the middle of the tube is then placed against the perineum, between the anus and the tuber ischii, and the ends pulled forcibly and crossed as high above the trochanter as possible, and afterwards carried round tlio body immediately below the iliac crests. If the elastic band is applied firmly enough, it is not necessary to have a pad over the