Applied Anatomy: 538 to the cicatrix. The secondary inflammation usually takes the form of an irido-cyclitis or irido-choroiditis; the injection is but slight, hut there is great sensibility of the eye to touch over the ciliary region. The exact cause is doubtful; it may be purely reflex, or spread through the optic nerve by continuity of tissue, or have a microbic origin; one thing is certain, that it most often follows wounds of the ciliary region, and that its first effects are observed in the same region of the other eye. A somewhat similar phenomenon is, I believe, observed in the case of dental caries; a tooth on one side is carious, and if it is not removed, stopped, or else kept well dressed with some antiseptic substance, the corresponding tooth on the other side will very often quickly become carious too. The change may possibly be trophic in its natm-e. NERVES OF THE EYEBALL. 1. The Optic Nerve.—The deep origin of this nerve is from the posterior part of the optic thalamus (pulvinar), the anterior pair of corpora quadrigemina, the corpora geniculata, and, according to some authors, from the angular gyrus, where, according to Eerrier, the visual centre is situated; but IMunk, on the other hand, places the centre on the outer convex surface of the occipital lobe. From the deejD origin each tract winds obliquely across the under surface of the corresponding cms, and afterwards join each other to form the optic commissure. The optic nerves take origin from the commissure, pass through the optic foramina, pierce the sclerotic and choroid a little to the nasal side of the centre, and expand into the retinse. The white sheath of Schwann should cease at the laniiua cribrosa, but in rare cases it does not do so, but is continued through the disc into the retina forming " opactue nerve fibres " as seen by the opthalmoscope; it usually affects tongue-like processes round the circumference of the disc. The processes are pure white, striated, and the free edge is feathered, or like carded wool. The rest of the fundus is normal, the vision is not at all affected, and the vessels crossing the white patch are not tortuous, as in patches of choroidal atrophy.