45 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the operation. At any rate, frequent vomiting is of very common occurrence in those who are "new hands" at rubber factories. Tliis objection could be got rid of by substituting a thin sheet of block tin for the gutta-percha. The Risks of Chloroform, unlike ether, are immediate and not remote, and principally concern the Heart, the Lungs, and the Stomach. The last is only dangerous as it affects the air passages, I mean from sickness and vomiting. One is often told that it is most important to examine the heart carefully before giving chloroform. This is best answered in the words of Sir Joseph Lister—"Preliminary examination of the chest, often considered indispensable, is quite unnecessary, and more likely to induce the dreaded syncope, by alarming the patient, than to avert it." Not only is it unnecessary but it may even do harm, as it directs the student's attention in tlie wrong direction. The Action of Chloroform is—(1) Stimulant; (2) depressant; and (3) if its administration be continued beyond this point, it will cause death by the complete loss of all reflex excitability of the cord and medulla, the last centres to be extinguished being those of organic life—the respiratory, cardiac, and vascular centres. The order in which the various parts of the nervous system are affected is very interesting. It first affects the convolutions of the cerebrum, beginning in front and passing backwards: thus the highest centres (psychological) are first affected, then comes the motor centres and those of special and common sensation. The lower cerebral and spinal centres are affected less and later; lastly, the lowest centres of all are affected, viz., those of organic life—first, the respiratory centre, and then those connected with the heart. Tiiese last are not affected to any great extent until after the functions of tlie higlier parts (and, therefore, all voluntary muscular efforts and ordinary sensation) are completely overpowered; it is this safe order of invasion tliat gives to cldoroform its great value as an anaesthetic. During the first stage, the pupils may dilate sHglitly : during tlie second stage, tlic pupil is contracted, dilating on stimulation of afFercnt nerves : during the third stage (tlio stage of danger), tlio pupils arc widely dilated and fixed. No solid food sliould bo given for at least four liours before tlie operation—(1) because the patient is more easily anajsthetiscd when