Applied Anatomy: 484 and his arms; this, of course, gives the fracture the very best possible chance to unite. The splints may be fastened to the limb by ordinary roller bandages, but the sheet is much better. The limb must be kept in this position for six or eight weeks, and after that encased in a starch, or plaster of Paris bandage. The patient may then be allowed to go about on crutches, either with the injured limb slung to the neck, or else the sole of the sound foot raised so that the injured limb may hang free. In out-of-the-way places it may not be always possible to procure at once the proper weight and pulley; but an ordinary cotton reel, with a strong steel knitting-needle for an axle, a pail containing water for the weight, will form very efficient substitutes. ^^ Eemem- ber that " a pint of water, weighs a pound and a qua'ter." 3 M'lntyre's Splint as Modified by Liston. —Although the crreat majority of fractures of the femur are best treated m the straic^ht position of the Hmb, in some rare cases it has been found that°the fragments could only be kept in position by flexing the le- and thigh, ejj., in fractures of the shaft just below the lesser trochanter, and again, just above the condyles. This niethod is advised in cases of transverse fracture immediately above the condyles, where the upper ?nd of the lower fragment is tilted directly backwards by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and pophteus muscles- hence, when the leg is fixed up in the extended position, the knee joint is really flexed, and the result is either non-union or union in a useless position. It is for cases such as these that Bryant recommends dMdon of the tendo aMUs before putting the limb up in the straight position, in cases where the doiible inclined plane fails to remove the deformity. The splint used for this purpose is M'Intvbe's splint as modified by Liston I subjoin a short description of the splint and its mode of apphcation It has also been used in cases where, in the straight position the sharp end of the bone threatens to come through the skin; and m cer am fractures of the leg, especially when compound or comminuted. iTthis splint the weight of the body acts as the counter-extending p^w r The splint, then, is a double inclined plane with a move- IZ joint at the knee, and a foot-piece; the foot-piece is fixed in a dot 0 that it may be drawn forwards if desired, and its aii to the axis of the splint can be shifted by means of a screw. The