Applied Anatomy: 188 posterior, half that lengtli; as compared witli Teale, there is less sacrifice of sound limb. The scar is situated behind, and there is a free exit for discharges. This method is best suited for amputation through the fleshy parts of the fore-arm, leg, and thigh. The flaps are made by dissection, and are chiefly composed of integumentary structures; if it be deemed necessary, however, some muscle may be taken up at the base of the anterior flap, to lessen tire risk of sloughing. The posterior flap is composed entirely of the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and fat. The flaps are then raised and the muscles divided by a circular sweep of the knife, and retracted for a distance equal to one-quarter of the diameter of the limb, and the bone divided at this point. Should the retraction of the flaps prove difficult, it may be necessary to carry an incision upwards from the angle of the flaps to the point at which the bone is sawn, either on one or both sides—somewhat after tlie manner of Teale, only he makes the lateral incisions at the beginning of the operation. In the thigh it is found necessary to retract the muscles for a distance equal to one-half the diameter of the limb. Further, in the lower thirds of the leg and fore-arm it is necessary to make the anterior flap equal in length to the diameter of the limb, in order to ensure a good covering for the bone, and at the same time make certain that the cicatrix shall be situated behind; the reason is, that the liones form a greater proportion of the thickness of the limb in these situations. IV. The Oval Method.—This plan is specially adapted for dis- articulation of the fingers and toes, shoulder and hip. It is really a circular amputation with a straight incision up one side of the limb, with the angles, where the straight and the circular incisions meet, rounded ofi". When the straight incision is longer than usual, it is often called the "racket-shaped" incision, which may be used, for example, in amputation of the metatarsal bone of the little toe or thumb. The best method of amputating the Lower Extremity (except where there are special methods adopted, such as Svme's at the ankle) is, in my opinion, by anterior and posterior flaps made by dis- section, with muscular tissue taken up towards their liases to prevent the skin sloughing—say, one diameter of skin and subcutaneous tissue only, and half a diameter with muscle as well. In the case