Surgical, Jl/cdical, and Operative. KJO ou a directoi', or by ^ iirobc-iDointed bistoury. The divided soleiis is next hooked aside, along with the gastrocnemius, and the sjDace where the artery lies then comes into view. At this point it is accomixauicd with its ventB comites, and at the uj^per part of the incision the posterior tibial nerve lies internal to it, tlien over it, and lastly, at the lower part of the wound, to its outer side. These structures rest on the fascia, covering the deep muscles (tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitoriim), and are covered by a thin layer of fascia. This fascia must be opened and the artery cleared and ligatured in tlic usual way, the needle being passed from the nerve. This operation is characterised by Mr Guthrie as being "difficult, tedious, bloody, and dangerous." It is important not to open the fascia covering the deep muscles, for then it is very easy to pass beneath the flexor longus digitorum and so miss the artery altogether. There is often a tendinous intersection in tlie soleus, Avhich must not be mistaken for its deep tendon. RESUME of the lateral operation:— 1. Make an incision, four inches long, half-an-inch beliind and parallel with the inner edge of the tibia. 2. Divide the superficial structures and deep fascia, expose and hook aside the edge of the gastrocnemius. 3. Divide the tibial origin of tlie soleus, first its muscular fibres and tlien the glistening tendinous structure covering its under surface, and which forms a sure guide to the vessel. 4. Flex the leg well and extend the ankle to its full extent, hold aside the muscles of the calf, and divide the fascia covering the vessels. 5. Clear tlie artery and tie in the most convenient way. {Ij) The second form was recommended by the late Mr Gutiirik, and is known as the mesial or Direct Incision (see Fig. 34,7(9). The patient is placed in the same position as in ligature of the popliteal artery in tlie centre of the popliteal space, and tlic Surgeon stands as before. After the superficial structures are divided, tlio knee should lie flexed and the foot extended, in order to relax tlie muscles tlirough whicli tlic operator lias to pass to reach