308 Applied Anatomy: wait, even tiongli slow, unless other indications point towards excision or amputation. When the soft structures only, round the joint, are aflfected, excision is very rarely required, as a useful limb will probably result without operation of any kind. 4. As regards the Gejieral Health and Social Position of the Patient— in reference to the comparative risk of a long or short after treat- ment; whether or not he is worn out by exhausting disease; and also, if free from constitutional taint such as struma, sypliiHs, etc. Consider also the facilities for after treatment, and the time and attention required—the knee joint, for example, will require great care and repose for many months; also the temperament, whether irritable or otherwise. VI. A Typical Case.—Where the Surgeon may reasonably hope for a successful result, may be regarded as something like the following:—!. The Disease should he Limited.—This is especially necessary in the lower extremity, as removal of a considerable portion of the bones here would render the limb less useful, or altogether useless, and would entaU a severe operation. Further, in young persons, unless the disease is limited, the epiphysis wiU be interfered with and result in arrest of develop- ment of the limb. In the upper extremity, however, length and strength are of less consequence. 2. The Patient slmdd be Constitidionalhj Healthy—not worn out by cachectic conditions of any kind, or waxy disease of internal organs.—Under these conditions amputation would be safer. 3. The Joint qiedion should he the residt of Accident, and not due to constitutional taint. 4. The Disease should he CV/ro?izc.—Disease should not be interfered with during the acute stage, because-(«) One cannot foretell the probable natural result as the disease subsides. It is possible that as useful a limb will be left by Nature as the Surgeon could hope to obtain by excision. Secure absolute res , .drain if necessary, keep in proper position for ankylosis, and wait. ih) Another objection to operation during the acute stage is tlie risk of setting up septic inflammation of the medullary cavity, or cancelli, with the usual results of osteo-phlebitis, thrombosis septic embolism, pya3mia, and death. 5. The Soft^ Parts around the Joint slmdd he Healthy.-T\.^l should not, for exanip e bo permeated by discharging sinuses. Should they be n.uch mhltrated