Surgical, Jlfcciical, and Operative. 335 It may be excised—(1) by a semi-lunar incision witli its concavity directed forwards, commencing midway between tlie great trochanter and tlie crest of the ilium, along the posterior aspect of the great trochanter, or (2) by a longitudinal incision, and then a cross one a little above the great trochanter—T- shaped incision. The vertical part of the incision runs somewhat behind the great trochanter, and either has a transverse incision across its upper end, making It T-shaped, or simply a hook-shaped curve, with the concavity upwards, and forwards towards the head of the bone. (3) A simple straight longitudinal incision, four or five inches long, along the posterior border of the great trochanter may also be used. ° The vessels are few at the posterior border, the bone is nearest the surface there, and the incision allows of more easy access to the powerful external rotators. In all cases of excision for disease it will be most convenient to begin with a straight incision, it may be through existing sinuses; the joint can then be examined tlioroughly, and, if found too far gone for excision, it can readily be transformed into Joudan's amputation. EXCISION FOR DISEASE. The patient is placed on the sound side, and then a longi- tudinal incision is made directly over or somewhat behind the great trochanter, the upper end of the incision being carried for- wards over the top of the great trochanter; if more convenient' the T-shaped incision may be used. The limb is carried across the other one somewhat, and the incision is carried down to the bone, the gluteal muscles and the remains of the capsule divided by a probe-pointed bistoury; then the assistant still further adducts the limb and rotates it outwards, and at the same time pushes It upwards till the upper end of the bone is exposed and divided, at a level determined by the extent and situation of tlie disease—e.^/., if the disease has begun in the head of the femur that bone is sawn below both trochanters; whereas, if it has bernui m the acetabulum it may be divided through tlie neck, leaving tlie trochanters. Carious cavities must be gouged out of the upper Olid of tlie section should any exist, and the acetabulum examined and treated in the same way. Tt is better to sum ike periosteum It tlie case admits of such a thing ; this is done l)y a J.-shaped