230 Applied Anatomy: Double Flap by Dissection.—In cases where the tissues are thin, it will he necessary, and, indeed, in nearly all cases it is advisahle, to form the deltoid flap hy dissection ; the line of the incision will correspond to that already given, extending from the posterior part of the axilla to an inch in front of the acromion process, so as to give a broad-hased flap. In operating on the right side, the Surgeon, provided with a broad bistoury, stands behind the patient. The assistant holds the arm well abducted, and the Surgeon commences his incision an inch in front of the acromion process and carries it downwards to the level of the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and then upwards and inwards to a point well behind the acromion, and about an inch below the spine of the scapula, near the posterior fold of the axilla. The flap thus marked out, and which should include the whole deltoid, is then raised, the arm adducted, the joint opened, and the knife passed along the inner side of the bone, the arm again abducted, and the inner flap cut in the usual way with a long narrow-bladed trans- fixion knife. Should he be amputating the left arm he must reverse the proceedings. He stands in front of the patient and commences the incision near the posterior part of the axilla, and ends an inch in front of the acromion process ; otherwise the operation is the same as on the right side. In both cases the axiUary vessels must be secured before division, either by an assistant, or the Surgeon himself can secure them between the finger and thumb of his left hand. RESUME.—The steps of this operation then are :— 1. For the right arm, stand behind; but for the left, staud in front of patient. 2. With the arm abducted, shape and raise the deltoid hap. 3 With the arm adducted, disarticulate by cutting on the anatomical neck of humerus, while the assistant rotates the bone to bring the various tendons within reach ot the knife. . , , , 4 Pass the knife beneath the head of the bone, again abduct the aim and cut an internal flap three or four inches long, securing the vessels before they are divided. .5. Tie the vessels.