15 Teviot Place, Edinburgh. 9 Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, with Illustrations and Tables, price 7s, 6d. THE STUDENT'S HAND-BOOK OF The Practice of Medicine DESIGNED FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS PREPARING FOR EXAMINATION, By H. AUBREY HUSBAND, M.B., CM., B.Sc, M.E.O.S., L.S.A., P.E.O.S.E., Author of the 'Student's Hand-book of Forensic Medicine and Public Health^ 'Sanitary Law,' etc. 'The book before us is an excellent example of its class; the whole of medicine is digested and tabulated, and, in fact served up ready prepared at infinite pains to render it easily assimilated.'—Zaracei. ' I'he distinguishing features of Dr Husband's hand-book are con- densation and clearness of diction—qualities which are certain to ensure for the book a favourable reception by those for whom it is intended. VVe have pleasure in recommending it to our readers as a most useful" work to peruse immediately before presenting one's-self for a Medical Examination.'—Students' Journal. ' The book is not put forth as a systematic treatise upon diseases and their treatment, but under each section will be found a brief statement of th<i mam points connected with all the diseases enumerated in the nomenclature of the Koyal College of Physicians, London. From the poiut of view of the uses to which this Manual is designed, we know of no work that can be put in comparison with iV—Provincial Medical Journal. _ ' All the Manuals written by Dr Husband are in constant and increasing demand among medical students. The one before us is now in its fourth and enlarged edition, and in this new form, with Its several valuable illustrations, it is sure to extend its usefulness and popularity.'—OZrf/jaTO Chronicle. ' A fourth edition of this hand-book needs but little notice. From the time wiien it was first offered as a help to students working for examination, it has with each edition increased in size and fulness. A special feature of this edition, and one which will commend it to students, is the addition of a sot of Tables for diagnostic and other purposes. The increased size of the book is due to those tables, and to additions made to the chapters on the nervous and circulatory systems. It would bo altogether undesirable if the excellence of this bodk wore to keep any man in his student days from rending the classical text-books; on the other hand, while the present examination system is in force, such a book as Dr Husband's is a necessity, and his wo can rooommead.'—Edinburffh Medical .lournal. *