11 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. rectus auticus major, and wliicli, when found, will lead to the parent trunk, {h) Transversalis Colli—Passes outwards in front of the scalenus anticus and plirenie nerve, and beneath the sterno mastoid, into the posterior triangle of the neck, where it passes in front of the cords going to form the brachial plexus, and ends there by dividing into superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. Aneurism of this branch may simidate subclavian aneurism, (c) Supra-scapular, or Transversalis Humeri—This vessel is on a lower level than the last, and runs outwards in front of the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, but behind the clavicle and the omo- hyoid to the upper border of the scapula. In some rare cases this branch is much enlarged, and has been mistaken for the subclavian artery itself III. Internal Mammary.—This vessel arises from the anterior and lower part of the subclavian, and passes downwards behind the inner end of the clavicle, and the beginning of the right innominate vein, and enters the chest between the first rib and the pleura; as it is about to enter the chest, it is crossed by the phrenic nerve, and covered by the internal jugular and subclavian veins. If this vessel were to be tied at its origin, it should be borne in mind that its anterior relations are precisely similiar to those of the first part of the subclavian (see above). For the rest of its course it lies fully half-an-inch external to the margin of the sternum, and in the interval between tlie sixth and seventh costal^ cartilages it ends by dividing into the musmlo-plirenic and superior epigastric arteries. Relations.—In front, the internal mammary is covered by (1) The skin, superficial and deep fascia; (2)' pectoralis major; (3) anterior intercostal membrane; (4) internal intercostal muscle; (5) costal cartilages. It lies on—(l) Triangularis sterni; (2) costal pleura; (3) the terminations of the intercostal nerves. Tlie left internal mammary is usually described as being one of the contents of the anterior mediastinal space, but such is not the case, as in no part of its course does it lie witiiin tliat space (Cunningham). For tho^ purpose of ligature the vessel may be reached by an oblique incision downwards and outwards from the side of the sternum, the centre of the incision being half-an-inch from that bone; then by dividing the various muscular and fascial layers already uidicated