563 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. regarded as a little box one iiicli square, and iu the centre of its onter side is placed tlie opening of the tube. Iramediately behind the orifice of the Eustachian tube is a depression known as the fossa of EosENMULi.ER, into Avhich the point of the catheter may bo inadvertently slipped. Obstruction of the tube gives rise, if not to deafness, at least to considerable impairment of hearing, from indrawing and rigidity of the membrana tympani, and it will be necessary to adopt some means to get rid of the obstruction. 1. This may be attempted by Valsalva's Method, dii-ecting the jiatient to hold his nose between the finger and thumb of one hand, close the mouth, and expire forcibly. If at the same time the patient is directed to swallow, the effect will be all the more evident. •1. Polltzer's Method.—This method for forcing air up the Eustachian tube takes advantage of the physiological fact, that during deglutition the opening from the mouth into the upper part of the pharynx and posterior nares is closed, and also at the same time the Eustachian tube is opened by the dilator tubtc or tensor palati, and by the Salpingo-pharyngeus. Every time one swallows it is possible to hear a "click" in the ear due to the air being forced up the Eustachian tube and impinging against the membrana tympani, and this is rendered much more evident if at the same time the nostrils are closed by grasping the nose between the finger and thumb. By these means we have really an air-tight chamb(5r, and if any of its walls are S(iueezed or forced inwards, or if more air be cUiven in, the air being practically incompressible is driven in the direction of the least resistance, e.y., up the Eustachian tube. I'he patient is directed to take a mouthful of fluid, and at a given signal from the operator, to swallow it. The operator intro- duces the end of a tube (the other end of which is in communication Avith a small reservoir of air) into one nostril, and closes the nostrils with the finger and thumb of one hand, Avhile Avith the other hand lie grasps the air-bag. He then directs the patient to swalloAV, and as he does so, the operator projects into tlie nostril a ipiautity of air, Avhich increases the pressure, and some of it passes up the Eustachian tube into the tympanum. It will be seen that this method resembles Yals.vlva's very closely, only by means of the air- bag greater pressure can be brought to bear upon any obstruction