143 Si(rgical, Medical, and Operative. The llio-lumbar Artery.—The lumbar branch of this vessel anastomoses Avith the last luinbav artery, and the iliuc with the gkiteal, deep circumflex iliac, external circumflex and epigastric arteries. THE EXTERNAL ILIAC. Origin.—From the bifurcation of the common iliac at the lumbo- sacral articulation. Extent.—From its point of origin to Poupart's ligament. Course.—It runs along the brim of the true pelvis, and its course is indicated by the lower two-thirds of a line drawn from a point three-fourths of an inch below, and a little to the left of the umbilicus, to a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis. The artery, with its accompanying vein, are bound down to the psoas muscle in a common sheath of fascia. Relations.—In front—(1) The intestines; (2) peritoneum; (3) a process of iliac fascia; (4) spermatic vessels; (5) vas deferens (■i and 5 are more especially at its loAver part); (6) genital branch of the genito-crural nerve; (7) the circumflex iliac vein. To its inner side—(1) The external iliac vein; (2) the vas deferens. To its outer side—the psoas magnus. Belaud it—(1) The external iliac vein (on the right side); (2) the psoas magnus. On the left side the vein is to the inner side of the artery in the whole of its course, but is beneath its upper part on the right side (see Fig. 25); on the right side the ureter very often crosses the upper part of the external iliac. The patient is to be placed in the recumbent position, with his shoulders raised by pillows, and his knees semi-flexed, to relax the abdominal iTmscles. The colon must be well emptied by an enema, the pubes shaved and the bladder emptied before beginning the operation. The Surgeon stands on the same side as the vessel about to be tied. Abernethy's Incision.—Make a curved incision,four or five inches long, witli the convexity downwards and outwards, commencing about an inch external to the middle of Poupart's ligament and an equal distance above it, and carry it upwards and outwards parallel with tlie ligament, ending an incli internal to, and a little above, tlio anterior sujjcrior iliac spine. This form of incision more easily reaches the artery at its upper part away from tlie seat of disease supposing it to be tied for femoral aneurism. Tliis incision,