559 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Structure of the Membrane.—It consists of three layers— (1) Tlie outer, or cuticular layer, a continuation of the skin of the meatus. (2) The internal, or mucous layer, which is continuous with the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity; in a fold of this layer the chorda tympani nerve lies concealed. (3) The middle, or fibrous layer, consisting of connective tissue fibres arranged both radially and circularly—the radial are the more numerous, and radiate from the point of attachment of the handle of the malleus; the circular form a dense ring near the chcum- ference, and are lodged in a bony groove which is deficient at the upper anterior part (notch of Rkinus). The layer itself is also defective above, and here, therefore, the membrane is only composed by the cuticular and mucous layers; this part is known as the menibrana flaccicla, or Shrapnell's membrane. Nerves of the meatus. The principal nerves are derived from the auriculo-temjwral, which is a branch of the third division of the fifth nerve, and supplies the outer layer of the membrana tympani; the ij7-eat auricular from the cervical plexus, and the auricular hranck of the vagus (Arnold's nerve). These nerves and their communications explain the occasional peculiar results of irritation of the external auditory meatus—such as coughing and sneezing from irritation of Arnold's nerve, and the auriculo-temporal nerve respectively, and yawning from irritation of the auriculo-temporal nerve, the impulse passing to the muscles tliat open the jaws. The vessels of the meatus are derived from tlie posterior auricular, internal maxillary, and temjooral arteries. Incisions through this membrane should be made at the lower and posterior part, as by so doing we escape the ossicles, the chorda tymj^ani, and other important structures. Just as in other serous membranes, the Qaxly signs of inflammation are congestion and loss of polish, and it also becomes less concave from the accompanying Eustachian obstruction. The Cysts of the Auricle.—AVe may find—(1) Simple serous cysts; (2) sebaceous cysts; (3) tlie traumatic hitniatoma of foot- ball i^layers; (4) the htumatoma of lunatics (lltemafuma awis, or Othtematoma)—the hsematoma consists of an efiusion of blood between the cartilage and the perichondrium. Erom its frequent occurrence in lunatic asylums, it has been termed " insane ear." (5) We may also find abscesses; and, lastly, (G) dermoid cysts.