29G Applied Anatomy: to traiistixiug tlie rUjld leg from tbe inner side are—(1) The danger of pushing the knife through the obturator foramen into the pelvis; (2) the operator is very much in the way of the assistant who manipulates the limb; and (3) the chances of being bespattered with blood, and the certainty of intercepting the view of bystanders. Single Anterior Flap.—A single anterior flap is cut as in the last operation, eight or ten inches long; the absence of a posterior flap favours drainage. The diiferent positions and manipulations are exactly the same as in the previous operation, only the knife is carried straight backwards Avithout making a posterior flap. Lateral Flaps. — The external flap is raised by dissection; the internal is cut by transfixion. The angles where the flaps meet are—In front, the centre of the groin, just external to the femoral vessels; heliind, just in front of the tuberosity of the ischium. Before making the flaps the skin should be pidled well upwards, and they should be about three inches in length or more, the external one reaching to a point about a hand's-b'readth below the great trochanter. The external one is then dissected upAvards to the level of the upper border of tlie great trochanter, when the bone is disarticulated and the knife inserted into the anterior angle, passed backwards close to the inner side of the neck of the femur, and brought out at the posterior angle, and a flap, equal iu length to the external, formed. The vertical incision favours drainage, but it also favours inoculation of the discharges and wound with germs from the genital and anal passages. Another advantage is that the vessels are cut last— the external flap being raised, and the head of the bone dis articulated before the inner flap is made. In disarticulating, forcibly adduct the limb. The position of the limb during the operation resembles the an tero-posterior flap method, the leg being held with the buttocks projecting beyond the edge of the table, and the slight differences in the manipulations wiU readily suggest themselves. For the inner flap a transfixion knife, Avith a blade a foot long, is employed; for the external, a shorter one may be used. Skin Flaps.—As in other cases of malignant disease of joints, this method may also be adopted at the hip. i\Iake the skin flap