Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 89 these aside, open the sheath, clear the vessel, and pass the ligature. Great care is necessary in clearing the vessel ou account of its close relation to the internal jugular vein ou its outer side, the vagus nerve behind and to its inner side, and the external carotid above and somewhat to its inner side. The needle is to be j^assed from the enter side, i.e., from the vein. This is an operation rarel}', if ever, performed on the living body. In cases of wound of the vessel in the neck by a stab or bullet, etc., it should, if possible, be tied at the bleeding point, but in this case, the wound is the guide. Sometimes it is very difficult to be quite sure of the position of the bleeding point, and in that case, the common carotid should be tied. In cases of intra-cranial and orbital aneurism, ligature of the common carotid is the more effectual oj^eration. Should it be injured from the fauces, as in operations on, or in ulceration of, the tonsils, ligature of the common trunk is the proper plan of treatment. XoTE.—The vessel lies, at this part of its course, external to the external carotid. The internal jugular vein is to its outer side, and, therefore, the aneurism needle should be passed from this side; further, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic and the vagus, with its superior laryngeal branch, are behind it. When one internal carotid trunk has been tied the circulation is very speedily re- established by the internal carotid, and vertebral of the opposite side, and vertebral of the same side, through the " Circle of Willis." PECULIARITIES—The length of the internal carotid varies according to the point of bifurcation of the common. Sometimes it springs directly from the arch of the aorta; occasionally, it is altogether absent. EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Origin.—At the same point as the internal. Extent.—From its point of origin upwards to a point opj^osite the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, Avhero it divides into temporal and internal maxillary arteries. In the child, it is smaller than the internal; but in the adult, the two vessels are almost of e(|ual size. It is called " rxJarnul" because it is distributed to the outer aspect of the craninm. At first it is placed on the inner .side of the internal carotid, but afterwards is superficial to that vessel. Course.—Runs