Applied A natomy: 288 and tliou brought nearly vertical, so as to divide the linea asjiera early. The assistant must at the same time support the leg evenly, so as neither to lock the saw nor snap and splinter the bone and to secure this the assistant should be directed to mal-e gentle fraction in the long axis of the bone being divided. After the bone is divided the assistant holding the thigh must avoid retracting the flaps any more lest the periosteum be stripped off the bone. The Anterior Flap may be raised by dissection, the first inch or so consisting only of the integuments, and its base an inch lower than the point where the bone is to be sawn. This flap is then retracted by the assistant and the Surgeon passes the knife beneath the bone, places his left hand under the muscular mass and cuts the posterior flap; the knife is carried down parallel to the bone for some distance and then brought sharply out. The bone is then cleared for an inch higher up, and sawn. As regards the vessels divided—(1) The femoral vessels at any point below the middle of the thigh will be found at the inner side of the posterior Hap ; above the middle of the thigh they will be at the inner side of the bone, and at the upper part they will be in front of the bone. (2) The termination of the deep femoral, towards the outer aspect of the posterior flap, close to the bone. Besides these (3) the perforating and (4) muscular branches may also require ligature. The position of the femoral artery matters but little, provided the operator takes care not to transfix it, which he is very liable to do about the middle of the thidi, but this can be avoided by not going too close to the femur on^the inner side, and leaving the vessels to be divided by the circular incision (Heath). .3 Lister's Method.—The limb is held as in previous ampu- tations of the thigh, and the Surgeon stands on the right side of the limb to be amputated, as by so doing he can better raise tlie flaps with his left hand. He then makes two straight incisions through the skin and fat, along the lateral aspects ot the limb parallel with its anterior surface, and each equal in len-th to two-thirds of the diameter of the limb. At the lower end°s they arc united by a transverse incision curved upwards at its extremities, where it joins the longitudinal ones. In tbi. way a sciuarc-shapcd flap is formed with well-rounded angles.