Applied Anatomy 470 the highest part of the articular surface, heing deeper, in vertical extent, on the inner side than it is on the outer (Fig. 96). It includes, therefore, part of the tendon of the adductor niagnus, practically all the inner head of the gastrocnemius, probably all the outer head too, as it is attached at a lower level and more external than the inner, and the tendon of the popliteus; the plantaris is attached to the shaft of the femur. In the adult the neck of the femur forms an angle ol 125 decrees with the shaft; in cliildren the angle is even more oblique"; and in old age the neck drops nearly to a right angle with the shaft, and not only so, but its cancellous tissue undergoes fatty defeneration and interstitial absorption (" osteoporosis"), and its compact shell is also thinned. The femur is thickly covered by muscle throughout its entire extent; it is perhaps least thickly covered on the anterior aspect of its lower third. Fractures of the Neck.—These may be-(a) Intra-capsular, and Ih) extra-capsular. The following table will assist the diagnosis between intra-capsular and extra-capsular fractures of the neck ot the femui-—(From Erichsen) :— Intra-Capsular. 1. Cause—generally sliglit and iu- direct, such as catching the foot in the carpet or slipping off the kerb-stone. 2. Force—usually applied longitudi- nally or obliquely. 3_ Age—rarely below fifty, most com- monly in feeble, aged persons. L Pain and constitutional disturb- ance slight. 5. Ko apparent injury to soft parts about the hip. 6. Ci'epitus often obscure. 7. Shortening usually at first not more than one inch. Extra-Capsular. 1. Cause—usually severe and direct violence, such as falling from a height or blow on the hip. 2. Force — usually applied trans- versely. 3. Age—usually r'elo^y fifty, chiefly in vigorous adults. 4. Pain and constitutional disturb- ance usually considerable. 5. Considerable extravasation, ecchy- mosis, and signs of direct injury to hip. 6. Crepitus (when not impacted) very readily felt. 7. Shortening (when not impacted) at least two inches or more.