118 Applied Anatomy: sometimes followed by gangrene, on account of tlie anastomoses between the axillary and brachial being so scanty. Lower down we have the superior (16) and inferior (20) profunda^ above, anas- tomosing with various branches in the general anastomoses round the elbow joint, e.g., the superior profunda with the radial recurrent (92) posterior interosseous recurrent (21), and anastomotic (32); the inferior profunda (20) with the anterior (33) and posterior (34) ulnar recurrents and anastomotic (32). Besides these there is the circulation through the shaft of the humerus and muscles m the neighbourhood. It will evidently vary, therefore, accordmg as the°vessel is tied between the profunda arteries, below both, or at the bend of the elbow where it is below all the branches. It will be well, at this point, to give a brief description of the Anastomoses round the Elbow Joint (see Fig. 18) There are seven vessels that take part in this anastomoses :-lhree branches comin- down-superior and inferior profunda, and the anastomotic; and four branches passing upwards-radial recurrent, anterior and posterior ulnar recurrents, and the posterior interosseous recurrent. For convenience they may be divided into four gi-oups In front of external condyle, anastomoses between-(a) superior " funda, and (5) radial recun-ent (22). 2. In front of internal condyle, anastomoses between-(.,) the anastomotic branch (3.) ^) anterior ulnar recurrent (33); and (c) inferior profiuula (20 . 3 Behind external condyle, anastomoses between-(«) the ana,s- tomotic branch; (6) interosseous recurrent; and (c) the superior pro- funda (21) 4. Behind internal condyle, anastomoses l^etween- («) the anastomotic branch (32); (&) posterior ulnar recurrent (34); and (c) the inferior profunda (20). RADIAL ARTERY. This vessel, like the brachial, of which it . P^'^l^^; tinuation is quite superficial. Origin.-From the bifurcation_o rbirhial a\ the bLd of the elbow. Extent.-Frc,m i^ poin of origin till it ends in the deep palmar arch. Cou se. A m e d Jnl om the centre of the hollow in front of the elbow joint Jh Inner side of the anterior aspect of the styloid process of t^ie r « will rouc^hlv indicate its course. Relations.-In/<m/-Skin Ztt, fascia, cutaneous nerves (especially the external