Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 527 The optic disc is of a lighter piuk than the rest of the fundus, and is cii-cular or shghtly oval, and very markedly so, should the patient be astigmatic; the centre of the disc is still paler, and into this the greater number of the blood-vessels dip. This central Avhite spot represents a hollow cup—the phyMjcjical cup—Mt by the optic nerve fibres as they radiate from the centre of the disc towards the periphery. Compare this with the large, deep pathological cup seen in glaucoma; in health the cup does not extend to the edge of the disc, whereas in glaucoma it does, and is also very deep. In atrophy of the optic nerve, the cup though wide is very shallow. In health the edge of the optic disc is sharply defined, and it is often sim-ounded by a white ring—the scleral ring—which corresponds to the edge of the sclerotic. In cases of myopia a greyish white crescentic patch is often seen on the apparent inner side of the optic disc, in indirect examination (i.e., next the yellow spot). This is known as the ''myopic crescent," and is due to atrophy of the choroid; it is also known as a ''posterior sta^liyloma." In some cases the lamina cribrosa may be distinguished like a number of dots at the bottom of the physiological cup. The veins of the retina are easHy distinguished from the arteries by their larger size, deeper colour, and° single outline; the arteries have a double outline and pursue a straighter course. The visible retinal vessels are few in number, widely spread, and are what are known as terminal vessels, as the arteries do not anastomose with each other, while the choroidal vessels, if seen, branch and anastomose freely, forming a closely set network • in embolism, therefore, of the retinal vessels, an infarct is produced' In cases of glaucoma and aortic regurgitation one may sometimes be able to see the vessels pulsating. As the optic disc lies to the nasal side of the posterior pole of the eye, in the indirect method of ophthalmoscopic examination, the cornea must be turned a little inwards, towards the patient's nose, to bring the disc opposite the pupil; in this movement, of course, the back of the eye is carried outwards, and the patient must be directed to turn his eye, not his head. Advantage is taken of the red reflection of the fundus, but especially of the pale disc, in examining for floating opacities in the vitreous. The Surgeon sits about twelve to eighteen inches in