120 Applied Anatomy: The vessel may he ligatured-1. In the upper third of its course, where it lies between the supinator longus and the pronator radu teres, resting on the tendon of the biceps, supinator brevis, and part of the insertion of the pronator radii teres. In a muscu- lar arm the supinator longus will overlap the vessel considerably. The radial nerve has no direct relation to this part of the vessel. Guide —The line that indicates the course of the vessel, or the inner'edge of the supinator longus muscle; find the tendon of this muscle at the wrist, and trace it up towards the bend of the arm The arm should be moderately abducted, and the fore-arm fully supinated, and either resting on the table or supported by an assistant; when the muscles are exposed, then the assistant may Hex the elbow to allow of them being held aside by blunt hooks m the charge of another assistant. The operator stands on the outer side of the arm on both sides of the body. I ncision.-lhis should be two or three inches in length, and parallel with the inner edge of the muscle. Divide the skin and superficial fascia, define the inner edge of the supinator longus, and divide the layer of deep fascia under the muscle, draw it a little outwards, and the pronator radii teres inwards, and the artery will be seen immediately below this Separate the vena^ comites, clear the artery, and ligature. As the radial nerve has no close relation to this part of the vessel, it matters but little how the needle is passed. RESUME:— 1 :\rak6 an incision two inches long in the course ot the vessel, avoiding as far as possible the large subcutaneous veins. . 2. Divide the deep fascia and define the edge of the supinator longus. . 3. ¥lex the fore-arm and wrist, separate the supmator longus and pronator radii teres. 4. Clear the artery and ligature. In the middle third, where it lies between the supinator loncms and the fleshy belly of the flexor carpi radiahs resting on the°lower part of the insertion of tlie pronator radu teres, flexor sublimis, and flexor longus pollicis. The radial nerve lies on the it r si do of, and close to, the vessel. The guide to the artery