264 Applied A natoiny: must be long enougii to fall clown over the face of the hones, at the point of section, and the stump of tissue behind them. The posterior tissues are divided by a transverse incision at the base of the anterior flap. This method may be applied to any part of the leg. 3. Lister's Method (see page 187).—Take the diameter of the limb at the point where the bones are to be divided, and then make a straight longitudinal incision of that length on the inner aspect of the leg, about half-an-inch behind the inner edge of the tibia, and another similar incision on the outer aspect directly over the fibula, but extending one inch higher up than the inner one. The lower ends of these incisions are then united hy a nearly transverse incision, with the angles well rounded, where it joins the lateral ones. The knife is next carried behind the bones, and critting somewhat obliquely, from without inwards, fashions a short posterior flap, about one-half or one-third the length of the anterior, convex downwards, extending from the upper end of the interned lateral incision to a point exactly opposite on the other side, and will be therefore about one inch below the up^Jer end of the external incision. The anterior flap is raised as in Teale's method, and the bones cleared and sawn at the upper end of the outer incision. The fibula and anterior edge of the tibia must be treated in the way already indicated. The flaps are then to be stitched up closely, excej)t at the nj^per end of the external incision, which is left open for drainage, the limb being placed on its outer aspect. The reason why the lateral incision is carried further up on the outer side, is on account of the difficulty of retracting the soft parts from the fibula, as the bone is sawn an inch higher uj) than the proper base of the flaps. They can be retracted without any difiiculty from the tibia, and therefore the incision is not carried further up than the typical operation demands. RESUME of Lister through Calf :— 1. Measure Avith the eye the diameter of the limb. 2. Make a longitudinal incision equal to half this diameter along the inner side of the leg, half-an-inch behind the inner edge, of the tibia, from a point one inch below the intended division of the bone.