Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 229 coraeoid processes, to canother point within tlie posterior border of the axilla, well behind the root of the acromion and about an inch below the spine of the scapula. On the right side the operator enters the knife midway between the acromion and coraeoid processes, passes it in front of the capsule of the joint, and makes it emerge at the posterior border of the axilla; on the left side he must enter the knife at the posterior border of the axilla, carry it across the front of the joint, and bring it out between the acromion and coraeoid processes. In either case before entering the knife it is well to make a small incision about an inch in extent at the point where the knife is to be entered, to avoid cross-cutting the tissues with its heel. Supposing the right arm is to be removed, and the patient is placed and the limb held as above indicated, the Surgeon enters the point of a long narrow-bladed transfixion knife midway between the acromion and the coraeoid processes, passes it close in front of the capsule of the joint, and brings it out within the posterior fold of the axiUa, and cuts a large flap, three or four inches in length, and consisting chiefly of the deltoid muscle ; the flap IS then to be raised by an assistant standing above the shoulder. The assistant who has charge of the arm then draws it downwards and forwards across the chest, while the Surgeon with the heel of the^ knife divides the capsular muscles and capsule, close to and against the anatomical neck of the humerus, the assistant mean- while rotating the bone so as to bring tlie various muscles within reach of the knife. The head of the bone being turned out of the glenoid cavity, the knife is carried round it and down the inner side of the shaft, for about three inches, with its edge kept close to the bone all the time, and is closely followed by the fingers of another assistant, who grasps the inner flap with the large vessels ; when the artery is surely grasped, but not before, the operator cuts obliquely downwards and inwards, forming the internal flap. While this flap is being made the arm is sliglitly raised and abducted The objections to this method are—(1) To perform the operation satisfactorily we require the leverage of the hujiierus, but this is often smashed in cases requiring amputation. (2) It is often impossible to find sufficient healthy tissue to form the large external flap. (.3) In cases requiring amputation for malignant disease transfixion is out of the question.