70 Applied Anatomy: give rise to unpleasant symptoms if it Le lacerated, from the reflex irritation and the summation of the stimuli, starting from tlie lacerated point. Deep Guide to the Vessel.—Either the tubercle on the first rib at the insertion of the scalenus anticus, and the outer edge of the same muscle, when the artery will be found immediately above and a little behind it, but covered and bound down to the first rib by a sheath of dense cervical fascia. When the tip of the finger touches the tubercle, the pulp of the finger will rest on the artery (Spence); or, the three white cords going to form the brachial plexus, seen at the outer end of the wound, and which are placed above and a little behind the artery—the artery being between them and the first rib. To distinguish the artery from a large nerve trunk on the uniujected dead body, press the structure firmly with the finger against the first rib, when, if it is a nerve, it will retain its rounded form, while the artery will flatten out and become slightly concave. (7) Open the sheath, and with the forceps and director clear the vessel, and pass the aneurism needle from above, in order to avoid the nerves going to form the brachial plexus—one of which is far more liable to be included in the ligature than the vein is to be injured, which is to the front of and considerably below the artery. Still, it is but right to state that many Surgeons recommend that the ligature should be passed from below upwards. The needle most suitable for passing the ligature is " a common aneurism needle with a considerable curve " (Bell). Some prefer the doubly-curved rectangular or helix needles, introduced by Dupuytren, of which two are required- one for each side. It should be passed as low as possible, as the vessel lies on the first rib. It is advised, in cases Avhere it is impossible to ligature the artery for want of space, to cut through the clavicle, provided it does not form part of the wall of the aneurism. One of the principal causes of death after ligature of the subclavian is septic inflammation, starting in the areolar tissue, and spreading to the anterior mediastinum, pericardium, and pleura. This is due to the opening up of the layers of fascia prolonged from the neck into the thorax, and more or less fixed to the inner side of the first rib, and partly forming a roof to the pleural cavity. The openin'^ up of this roof is the more likely to happen if the artery be tied anywhere else than on the first rib. In dressing the