142- Applied Anatomy: the middle third marks the point of emergence of the gluteal artery from the great sciatic notch. For the sciatic and pudic draw a line (iUo-iscldatic) from the same point to the tuberosity of the ischium. The junction of the lower with the middle thu-d marks the point of emergence of the sciatic and pudic arteries from the great sciatic notch (Fig. 26). The thi-ee vessels are simply covered by the integumentary structures and the gluteus maximus, and may be reached for the purpose of ligature by incisions, three or four inches long, m the direction of the fibres of the gluteus maximus, over the pomts indicating their respective positions; but in by far the greater number of cases the guide to the artery affected will be the pulsating aneurismal tumour. Of the three, the gluteal is the one most frequently affected. It is the vessel most frequently wounded m this rec^ion, from sitting down on something sharp, or, for example, from the accidental coUapse of the chamber utensil. Any of the three may be wounded by a punctured wound in this region.^ In cases of traumatic aneurism, the best treatment to adopt is to perform the " old operation;" failing this, the internal or even the common iliac may be ligatured. _ The Collateral Circulation (see Fig. 24) is earned on by anas- tomoses between the gluteal (12) and sciatic (19) arteries with the ascending branch of the external (21) and internal cKcumflex (26), branches of the profunda femoris; and in the case of the pudic by the anastomoses of its branches with the corresponding branches from the other side. , , . n • The Obturator Artery runs along the lateral pelvic AvaU in the extra-peritoneal fat, between the peritoneum and the pelvic fascia to the upper part of the thyi'oid foramen, and leaves the pelvis by passing cLe the upper edge of the pelvic fascia; the nerve of th same ^ame lies above it, and its vein is below it. It gives off an "c, a vesical, and a prd.ic branch. Outside the pelvis it divides n o an externk and an internal branch that sldrt t^^e sides of th thyroid foramen and anastomose with each other, and with b anch s of the internal circumflex. The external branch ^^nds a twig to the hip joint through the cotyloid notch, which ramifies on the Jomid ligament as f^' as the head of the femur; it is accompanied by a branch of the obturator nerve.