73 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the aortic intercostals (30), anastomosing with the long and short thoracics of axillary artery (26, 21), and the deep epigastric (28). lEEEGULARITIES.—The right subclavian may spring as a separate trunk from the arcli of the aorta, and when it does so, the first part is much deeper than usual. It may pass in front of or through the fibres of the scalenus anticus; and its point of origin varies according to the point of bifurcation of the innominate. When it springs directly from the arch it may be the first, second, third, or even the fourth branch. When it is the first it occupies the position of the innominate; when it is the second or third, it usually passes behind the right carotid to gain its usual position; and when it is the last branch it may pass behind the oesophagus, or between it and the trachea, to reach its ordinary position. When it passes in front of or behind the oesophagus, there is a great risk of sharp foreign bodies caught in the oesophagus, e.g., fish bones, ulcerating through into the subclavian and causing fatal hajmorrhage. The left subclavian is sometimes joined with tlie left common carotid at its origin. An instructive case is related by ]\[r Holmes, where, in a case of aneurism of the arch of the aorta, the pulsation in the right carotid was normal, but the pulse at the right wrist was obliterated. The explanation was that, in this case, the subclavian arose as the last branch from the arch, and in order to reach its usual position it passed between the arch and the spine, against which the aneurism compressed and obliterated it. Treatment of Subclavian Aneurism.—1. Medical and dietetic, combined with rest, etc. 2. Surgical measures; as a rule all opera- tive measures are more or less dangerous or uncertain—(a) In aneurism oi first or second parts, pressure on the vessel at the distal side of the tumour against the first rib may be tried; {b) in the same condition, ligature of the third part above or below the clavicle may be tried—Brasdou's plan, or distal ligature; (c) ligature of the innominate, if the aneurism be limited; and {d) or amputation at the shoulder joint and tying the artery on the face of the stump (Feuousson). In aneurism of the third part wc may—(«) Ligature the first part, using ox aorta or kangaroo tail tendons, so as rather to compress the vessel than to divide its coats; {h) direct pressure on the tumour with refrigeration; and (o) amputation at shoulder joint. Otlicr means, equally uncertain and dangerous, such as