279 Surgical, IlTcdical, aiid Operative. a xis of the bono, and to avoid injurious pressure on the anterior flap, the sharp anterior edge of the condyles may be rounded off by a narrow-bladed and fme-toothed Eutcher's saw. It is not necessary to adhere strictly to the order of the operation as above described ; the anterior flap may be cut and raised, the knee joint examined if the Surgeon is undecided between excision and amputation, the bone sawn as in excision, and then, should amputation be deemed necessary, the posterior flap of skin is marked out, allowed to retract, and then the muscles and vessels divided last of all. By this plan the patella is raised with the anterior flap, and will require to be dissected out before completing the operation. In performing this amputation, INIr Heath at once flexes the knee to a right angle, makes the first incision and reflects the anterior flap, then transfixes the limb behind the condyles, and forms the posterior flap. As compared with amputation through the lower third of the thigh. Garden's amputation has the following advantages:— 1. It is less serious because further from the trunk, and there is therefore less shock, etc. 2. The parts divided are not vascular, and there is, therefore, less risk of heemorrhage. 3. The tendency to protrusion of the bone is less, because of the ample coverings, and less tendency to necrosis, osteo-myelitis, osteo-phlebitis, and pysemia, as the medullary canal is not opened. 4. A longer stump, and therefore greater command over the artificial limb. 5. The end of the stump is well adapted for bearing pressure, being of great breadth; and, further, because the skin forming it is accustomed to hear pressure, and the cicatrix is situated behind. G. In cases of doubt as to whether amputation or excision is the proper mode of procedure, the anterior llap can be raised, the joint examined, and tlic further proceedings decided; for, just as at the shoulder, it is very (iasily transformed into an amputation. RESUME of Caudrn's amputation:— 1. A.ssistant to hold the liml) sliglitly Jlexed—probably already so l)y disease. 2. Operator stands on tlic right side and defines bony guides—tuberosities of tlie femur, at their upper anil j.osterior part, and tlie tu1)ercle of the tibia.