Applied Anatomy: 258 less liability to slougliing of tlie heel flap, as the vascular supply is less disturbed. 4. It is said to bear pressure better. Its disadvantages are—1. Keturn of the disease in the fragment of bone left in the heel flap, and therefore this method should never be chosen in the case of disease of the bones of the ankle joint. 2. Greater liability to osteo-phlebitis and pyemia, owing to the section of the two spongy bones. 3. The process of union and consolidation of the bony surfaces is more tedious. Lastly, as compared with Syme's amputation it is not better fitted to support the Aveight of the body, nor so well adapted for pro- gression (Spence). Subastragaloid Amputation (Lignoeelles).—Eemoval of the foot below the astragalus through the joint between it and the OS calcis. The guides for this operation are :—A point three- quarters of an inch below the external malleolus, and opposite the outer tubercle of the os calcis, on the outer side, and the tuberosity of the scaphoid on the inner side. A heel flap is made somewhat after the manner of Syme's amputation, but extending rather further forwards, and a dorsal flap as in Chopart's amputation, the anterior bones removed as in that operation and the os calcis dissected out afterwards, first opening the joint between the scaphoid and astragalus, and then that between the astragalus and the os calcis. Com- mencing on the outer side (right foot) the incision is carried forwards for a little way, and then downwards to the sole of the foot, passing just behind the prominence of the fifth metatarsal bone, across the sole and brought up to the tubercle of the scaphoid on the inner side. The ends of this incision are connected by another curved incision across the dorsum of the foot. The soft parts are next raised on the outer side sufficiently to reach the tendo achillis, which is to be cautiously divided. The finger is now introduced into the wound, to feel for the articulation between the os calcis and the astragalus; the point of the knife is then pushed in between the bones, and the strong interosseous ligament divided, while the foot is wrenched forcibly inwards. The astragalo-scaphoid articulation is next opened, and then the parts on the inner side and the rest of the heel flap are put on the stretch by