Applied Anatomy: 50 I._WHITE ( = right). 1. When the chloroformist gives all his attention to his duty. Before beginning he ought to see that the patient has nothing movahle in his mouth, as false teeth, sweets, etc. 2. When he lias a toothed artery forceps handy—usually attached to the left lapel of his coat. 3. When muscular relaxation is complete, and the reflexes of the conjunctiva and the part to he operated upion are abolished: this is determined by gently pricking the part. 4. When the heart is beating regularly. 5. When air enters the chest easily. 6. When there is neither snoring nor stertor. 7. When there is an absence of extreme pallor or marked blueness of the face. 8. Have ether, and brandy, and capsules of nitrite of arayl, always at hand; and a hypodermic syringe full of ether and ready to inject subcutaneously at a moment's notice. Above everything, watch the patient's breathing. For this purpose, the tips of the fingers of one hand may be laid on the symphysis menti, with the palm a little distance above the mouth and nostrils, so that you may be able to feel whether the patient breathes or not, as the mere heaving of the chest is not a trust- worthy guide. Use especial care and precaution in the case of alcohoHcs. See that the patient is deeply under, during incisions through the skin and in cutting large nerves. II.—GREEN ( = proceed cautiously). 1. When snoring (= vibration of the velum palati) accompanies the respirations. Remove the chloroform for a little, and be ready to pull forward the tongue by the toothed forceps. In these cases it is often advised that the chin be tilted upward, but tliis is of no use at all as it does not puU forward tlie tongue—the lower jaw is simply jammed against the upper. The proper plan is to place tlie thumbs half-an-inch or so above the angles of the lower jaw andj^nsh; in this way the chin is pushed forward, and with it the •renio-hyoid, and it in turn pulls forward the base of the tongue. Dr Howard denies that traction of the tongue can raise the .-pi-lottis, but states that "the nc.r and only way" to ensure a