Applied Anatomy: 552 2. The Direct, or Continental Method.—A verticcal incision is made right over the tendon close to the cornea. By this method the tendon can he men, so that the Snrgeon can see what he is doing, and can make certain of dividing all the fihres. In dividing the capsule of Tenon, pass the scissors towards the inner canthus and free it well there, so as to lessen the rislc of unsightly retrac- tion at that part. A horse-hair suture requires to he introduced into the conjunctiva to hring its edges together, and the wound probably does not heal so readily as in the other method. Little after treatment is required. The eye is tied up for a few hours, say, till bedtime, when everything is removed; for a day or so longer the patient may wear a shade and remain in a darkened room, but the sooner the eye is brought into use the better, so that the tendon may be moulded wliUe it is yet plastic. READJUSTMENT OR ADVANCEMENT. This operation consists in bringing forwards to a new attach- ment the tendon of a rectus — usually the internal, sometimes the external—which has become attached too far back after a jDrevious tenotomy, or has become weakened, as in myopia. The instruments required are—a stop speculum, straight scissors with blunted points, a toothed fixation forceps, a strabismus hook, and two or three double-needled sutures. Critchett's Operation— 1. Make a vertical incision, exposing the internal rectus, about one-sixth of an inch from the edge of the cornea. 2. Divide the tendon in the usual way. 3. Pass the two or three needles, from within out-\vards, througli the flap formed by the tendon, fascia, and conjunctiva, at some distance from its free edge. 4. Shorten this flap by cutting off its free edge. 5. Pass the other ends of the sutures, from within outwards, through the fascia and conjunctiva, close to the edge of the cornea, taking as broad a hold as possible. 6. Divide the external rectus in^hc usual Avay, and intro- duce a stout traction suture at the outer side of the eye, by Avdiich it can be drawn in-\vards.