569 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. is usuallj^ bi-lateral. Tlie acute stage of tliis condition forms the acute earache of childhood in a large proportion of cases; it should be watched for during the course of an attack of measles or scarlet fever as well as afterwards. Besides perforation, other and more serious complications are apt to follow suppuration of the middle ear—such, for example, as inflammation of the mastoid cells, caries of the bone, facial paralysis, inflammation of the membranes of the brain, local or diffuse, and simple or supijurative, especially difluse purulent arachnitis, pyemia, granulations and polypi blocking up the meatus, inflammation of the brain, cerebral abscess, perforation of the internal carotid artery, thrombosis of the lateral sinus or internal jugular vein, and, lastly, destruction of the chorda tym- pani nerve. To explain these phenomena one has only to keep in mind the relations of the tympanic cavity. On the inner wall lies the facial nerve, covered only by a thin crust of bone; and immediately beyond this wall lies the internal ear, hence inflammation and suppuration may be readily set up in the labyrinth, and may possibly reach the cerebellum, or medulla oblongata, through tlie internal auditory meatus. On the outer wall the chorda tympani nerve lies in a fold of mucous membrane. The roof is very thin, and inflammation can readily pass through the bone to the dura mater and then to the brain itself, especially in young persons where the petro-squamous suture has not as yet solidified. This fact has probably given rise to the impression that cerebral abscess is much more common in children than in adults, as compared with cerebellar. Only a thin layer of bone separates the floor from the internal jugular vem; the mastoid cells communicate with the cavity, and are also in close relation with the lateral sinus; and, lastly, the internal carotid artery is only separated from the anterior wall by a thin plate of bone. The orifice of tlie Eustachian tube and the lower edge of the tympanic membrane, it should be remembered, arc not on a level with the floor of the tympanic cavity, but some little distance above it; a well is thus formed in which pus may collect and ferment, even though the membrane be perforated. Hence the importance of frequently washing out the cavity with a solution of warm boracic lotion, and the "daily use of Politzee's bag for a weelc or ten days.