Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 457 fragment being fully supinated Avliile tlie lower is fully prouated, it was first recommended by Edward Lonsdale, in 1832, and more recently by Malgaigne, that the arm should be put up in com- plete supination. It is impossible to bring the upper fragment of the radius into good position with the lower, and therefore, the next best thing to be done is to put the lower fragment into as good position as possible with the upper, otherwise the use of the supinator brevis and biceps, as supinators, is entirely lost, as they have already fully supinated the bone and are fixed in that position. The difficulty is best overcome by putting up the fractured arm in the position of full supination. The limb must be kept perfectly rigid for at least two or tliree weeks, when the fingers and wrist may be allowed some freedom of movement. But as the fracture is not near a joint, there is less danger of adhesions forming in the sheaths of the tendons • indeed, absolute and long continued rigidity rather is indicated,' as the fracture is through the compact tissue of the shaft, to avoid non-union. The bones unite in about five Aveeks. COLLES'S FRACTURE. Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius. —The fracture in this case IS for the most part below the origin of the pronator qiiadratus, and is usually about three-quarters of an inch, or rather more, above the articular surface, as seen from the front, but extends higher up on the posterior aspect, as it is usually oblique from before backwards. The cause is usually imlirect violence, as a fall on the palm of the outstretched hand, the whole weLdit of the fall being transmitted through the ulnar side of the hand to the lower end of the radius, as it is three-quarters pronated, so that the ulnar border first touches the ground, and the hand IS thus driven to the radial side ; when caused by a blow on the palm, there is no lateral displacement. The fracture may be non-impacted, but is usually impacted. Varieties - 1 Where It IS very near the lower end of the radius, ..omminuted, and iion- mipacted, and therefore easily reduced. 2. Higher up (the usual site) and not comminuted. This may be-(«) Impacted, or non- inipacted. Any fracture of the lower end of the radius, within