160 Applied Anatomy: —the vein Toeing at first behind, and then to the outer side of the artery, while the nerve is above it, and crosses from its outer to its inner side (see Fig. 29). The position of the patient and of tlie Surgeon is the same as in the previous operation. Incision.—An incision, three or four inches long, should be made, a tinger's-breadth internal to, and parallel with, the line that indicates the course of the artery, so as to cut down on the outer border of the sartorius, and at the same time avoiding the internal saphenous vein (Beck), as, it is said, we may miss the sartorius altogether, and strike the vastus internus instead, if the incision be made too far to the outer side. The vastus will be recognised by its fibres passing downwards and outwards. I am not so sure of this. I think it will be found, as a rule, more convenient and sure to cut in the line that indicates the course of the vessel, as in the previous operation, exposing the sartorius and turning it to the inner side (Fig. 31). Structures cut through—(1) Skin; (2) superficial fascia and fatty tissue; (3) through the fascia forming the sheath of the sartorius, and expose the outer edge of that muscle, and draw it well to the inner side. Next divide (4) the roof of'Hunter's canal with the point of the knife, and then enlarge the opening with a probe-pointed bistoury; the saphenous nerve is then to be drawn aside, and the proper sheath of the vessel opened, and the artery cleared to the requisite extent, and the hgature passed from the outer to the inner side, and, if possible, about an inch above the origin of the anastomotica magna. PECULIARITIES.—1. In four cases a double superficial femoral has been found, the two divisions reuniting again near the opening in the adductor maguus to form a single popliteal. 2. The femoral has been found situated at the back of the thigh, passing through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. 3. Sometimes the common femoral is very short, or altogether absent. Branches of the Femoral. —(1) The superhcial epigastric; (2) the superficial circumflex iliac; (3) the superior external pudic; (4) the inferior external pudic; (5) the profunda branch— and (6) the anastomotica magna, which is given off in the lower part of Hunter's canal: it arises just before the femoral passes through the openin". It divides into a mperficial and deep branch—the superficial "accompanies the long saphenous nerve, while the deep