36 Applied Anatomy: Inspection may discover a biilging which may or may not pulsate, or heave. Paljoatio^i may show that the pulsation is expansile and not a mere upheaval, and may also detect thrills. Percussion indicates an increased area of dulness, and also the shape of that area, and its probable relation to the heart and great vessels. By Auscultation we may hear the normal cardiac sounds very clearly in the sac, though they may be less clear between the sac and the heart; and valvular murmurs may also be well heard, being transmitted by the blood current. At times also local murmurs, produced in the sac, usually systolic in time, are heard. A very common effect of aneurism of the arch is to produce accentuation of the second sound in the aortic area. The indirect evidences are derived from the pressure effects on surrounding structures. 1. The (Esophagus, causing difficulty in swallowing, especially of solids; on auscultating over the course of the esophagus behind, delay in the transmission of the bolus may be detected. It may also be displaced to one side. 2. Thoracic Duct, producing rapid emaciation, anaemia, and sometimes ascites, the fluid poured out resembhng chyle. On account of the pressure on the duct, the lymph and chyle that it normally conveys from the intestines to the blood is lost to the body, so far as niitrition is concerned, and hence the emaciation, on account of this great loss of fat, which may be discovered in the stools, causing fatty diarrhoea. 3. Heart and Blood Vessels.—The heart may be displaced and its movements impeded, causing palpitation and other signs of heart disease; the arteries are usually imperfectly filled, and therefore show diminished tension, and there is also delay in the transmission of the pulse Avave. This accounts for the difference in strength between the two radials, and the want of synchronism usually observed in these cases; these changes are best shown by the sphygmograph. The veins are over-filled, hence the oedema. 4. Respiratory Organs.—When the trachea is pressed on, the patient has a feeling as if he were being throttled, the respiration is noisy, and on auscultation a loopard-like growl may be heard; this feeUng is increased by exertion and excitement—this is an important aid in the diagnosis of aneurism from ordinary tumours.