1S7 Surgical, Medico/, and Operative. Its breadth should be fully one-half the circumference of the liiiili, and its free end gently rounded. A flap four inches in length will be sufficient for a limb twelve inches in circumference. On the posterior aspect the soft parts are divided obliquely towards the bone, beginning; three inches lower than the level of the base of the anterior flap. The whole of the soft parts are then retracted, and the bone is sawn two inches higher up than the base of the flaps. This method is almost restricted to the lower third of the thigh, and is specially valuable in muscular limbs. It is interesting to observe the gradual and silent lengthening of the posterior flap in "Slv Spexce's amputation. As introduced, there Avas no posterior flap; in his later years he cut the tissues behind obliquely, so as to form a short posterior flap; and in the present day operators make a square posterior flap at least half the length of the anterior. This gradual lengthening is probably due to the fact that, in amputations through the lower third of the thigh, a flap length, at least equal to twice the diameter of the limb at the point where the bone is sawn, must be provided, instead of the usual one and a half. The advantages of this plan over Teale's method, so far as regards the length of the stump, are more apparent than real. If SPENCE's/aj? be two inches shorter than Teale's, he saws the hone two inches higher up than the base of the flap, whereas Teale saws the bone on a level with the base of the flaps. But Spexce's is more easily pei-formed, provides as good a covering to the bone, the cicatrix is in a good position, the wounded surface is less, and should it fail to lieal by the first intention it is more manageable. 4. Garden's Method.—A rounded anterior flap composed of skin and subcutaneous tissue only. Its form and position resembles very closely Spenge's anterior flap. Before sawing the bone the soft parts are retracted a little ; tliere is no posterior flap. This method is used principally at the knee joint in amputation through the bases of tlic condyles. In Garden's amputation, as in Spexce's, the same gradual development of a posterior flap is observed. ;"). Lister's Method resembles That/r's somewhat, only Lister takes the Haps more equally from the anterior and posterior surfaces. If is method has all the advantages of Teale's plan, without its dis- advantages. The anterior flap is about two-thirds of the diameter of the limb at tlie point whore the bone is to be sawn, and tlic