Applied Anatomy: 338 process of the ilium downwards and slightly inwards for three or four inches; this incision passes between the tensor fascia femoris and the glutei muscles on the outer side, and the sartorius and rectus on the inner side. The capsule is opened at the upper part of the incision, but the Y-ligament should be left as far as possible imdisturbed; the bone is removed as in the last method, the aceta- bulum and the rest of the joint examined and treated according to circumstances. The patient rests in bed Avith his leg extended and steadied by a light weight and pulley. The only apparent objection to this method is the absence of free drainage; but if the Avound be kept aseptic, little drainage is required, and in any case it is very easy to make a posterior opening for this purpose. The special advantages are—(1) No muscles are divided; (2) no vessels or nerves of any size are divided; and (3) the anterior wound allows of the early application of a double Thomas's liip splint, so that the patient can be taken out of doors and get the benefit of fresh air almost from the very first (Barker). EXCISION FOR INJURY. Excision for injury, or in the dead subject, is a much more difficult operation. The patient is placed on the sound side, and an assistant holds the thigh, slightly flexed, while tlie operator is making the first incision. Either the semi-lunar or the sunple straight incision may be used; the other incisions described above may°also be tried, for the sake of practice. The incision must be carried right down to the bone, so as to clear the posterior aspect of the great trochanter, passing through the skin, superficial fascia, with its vessels and nerves, the deep fascia, and dividing the three glutei muscles, pyriformis, obturator internus and gemeUi, obtui-ator externus, quadratus femoris, and part of adductor magnus. The operator may next remove the overlianging upper part of the great trochanter, as this will enable him to divide the capsule and bone much more easily; further, its removal wUl aUow of better drainage of the acetabulum. Tlie assistant now everts the foot, while tlie Surgeon divides tlie remaining structures on the outer side of the grea°t trochanter, as well as the muscles attached to its anterior aspect, chiefly the gluteus medius and minimus, and part of the vastus externus and crureus; the foot is then inverted, and tlie