Applied Anatomy: 138 the tliigb. The operation is in itself a serious one, and in addition to the dangers dependent on the magnitude of the operation and the vessel tied, there is a further risk of inducing fatal peritonitis. The form of the incision will vary according to the point at which M^e wish to apply the ligature, and also upon the size of the aneurism. In every case the centre of the incision should be opposite to the point at which we wish to secure the artery. Collateral Circulation (see Kg. 24). —1. The deep epigastric branch (9) of the external iliac anastomosing with the internal mammary branch (5) of the subclavian and the aortic intercostals (2). 2. The deep circumflex iliac branch (20) of the external iliac and the ilio-lumbar (11) of the internal iliac anastomosing with the lower intercostals (2) and lumbar branches (6) of the aorta. 3. The lateral sacral (14) from the internal iliac anastomosing with the middle sacral (10) of the aorta and the superior hsemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric. 4. The pubic branch of the deep epigastric (15) with the pubic branch of the obturator (25). 5. The visceral branches of the internal iliac of the side tied anastomosing with the corresponding branches of the opposite side (16). THE INTERNAL ILIAC. Origin.—From the bifurcation of the common iliac at the lumbo-sacral articulation. Extent and Course.—From its point of origin it passes down almost immediately into the pelvis, and at the level of the great sacro-sciatic notch it divides into anterior and posterior trunks, which supply the pelvic walls and viscera. It is a short, thick vessel, about an inch and a half in length (but may vary from half-an-inch to three inches), and is much smaller than the external iliac. In the foetus the internal iliac is called the hypocrastric artery, and is twice as large as the external. It carries the blood from the foetus to the placenta to be purified, and might, therefore, be looked upon in the same light as the pulmonary artery in the adult. Outside the belly of the child in utero the two vessels twine round the umbilical vein, and are known as the umbilical arteries. After birth the greater part of the vessel is obliterated, and only remains as a fibrous cord; a small part ot its root, however, remains pervious, and is known as the superior vesi al artery. Relations.-In front are-(l) The peritoneum;