Surgical, Medical, and Opcr-ative, 537 lid, direct the patient to look down, and then gently take hold of the ciliary margin of the lid; press the probe downwards and draw the lid forwards and then upwards, when the cartilage will tilt over. In doubtful cases we must use oblique illumination by the aid of a lamp in a dark room, and a lens of about three inches focal length, such as is used with the ophthalmoscope; by this means we concentrate the light on the cornea, and any abrasion or opacity will be readily seen. This may also be supplemented by examining the illuminated cornea by the aid of a pocket lens. An abrasion may be the starting point of spreading septic ulcer of the cornea and of pus in the anterior chamber {liypopyon her otitis). The treatment is to destroy the septic condition by antiseptic appli- cations or the thermo-cautery, when the pus readily disappeai-s from the anterior chamber, and the ulcer stops spreading. Treatment.—In many cases the foreign body can be easily removed, but when it is embedded in the cornea, drop a solution of cocaine into the eye, and then use a small spud, and passing it behind the foreign body, jerk it out; and afterwards, if there be much irritation, use a solution of cocaine or atropia. In the case of quicklime, wash the eye with a weak solution of vinegar (a teaspoonful to a cupful of water) and afterwards, to lessen the friction, use a drop of castor oil every half-hour, or else a solution of atropia or cocaine. In penetrating wounds of the cornea, the aqueous humour escapes with a gush, and carries the iris Anth it (prolapse); the iris sticks between the lips of the wound and delays healing, and also, because the iris is a very sensitive structure, gives rise to great pain and irritation. The first thing to be done is to reduce the prolapsed iris if possible; for this purpose close the eye and rub the lid gently against the globe, and afterwards use a strong solution of atropia or eserine, accord- ing to the position of the wound. If it is not yet reduced, then the prolapsed part must be snipped off. Penetrating Avounds of the "dangerous zone" of the eye {rHiary rogion) are .specially dangerous, not only to the wounded eye, but to the other eye as well; in the wounded eye it is apt to give rise to iritis, cyclitis, and irido-choroiditis, and in the other eye, sympathetic ophthalmitis in three to six weeks after the injury, especially if the injured eye contains a foreign body, or if the iris bo attached