Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 15 round it without excessive danger, and with a sufficient space between the part tied and the tumour, e.g., the iliac and carotid arteries. These vessels might be compressed, but the patient very often cannot bear it. (2) Where tlie patient from some peculi- arity, constitutional or acquired, is intolerant of the more gradual methods of cure. (3) Where these methods have been tried and failed. (4) Where an aneurism has burst into one of the internal cavities of the body, e.g., a popliteal aneurism into the knee joint. (5) Sometimes when the rupture has taken place subcutaneously. In some cases compression may be tried for a short time, but if it is not successful amputation or the ligature is indicated. According to the same authority it is contra-ind icated :— (1) In aortic and innominate aneurisms, as ligature here has always been fatal. Try medical treatment first, and only have recourse to ligature as a last resort, wlien medical treatment fails, or if the sac is about to burst or has burst. (2) In an artery so situated as to admit of compression, unless it has been tried and failed, or is contra-indicated. (3) In recent traumatic aneurisms, especially when caused by fracture, without a previous trial of the resources of Nature aided by rest, position, and pressure, direct or indirect. (4) In extensive disease of the heart and arterial system : in such a case digital compression is the best and safest. ^(^0 Another method of ligature was suggested by Brasdor (1721-1799), although to Wardrop (1822) belongs the credit of having first performed the operation, viz., that of tying the artery on the distal side of the aneurism. It is chiefly applicable in cases of aneurism at the root of the neck, and was originally intended for aneurism at the lower part of the common carotid, or aneurisms that hold an intermediate position (as regards treat- ment) betwcen^ the Physician and the Surgeon. It has also been used ni innominate aneurisms, where a cure was attempted either by tying both its branches simultaneously, or by tying the riglit common carotid first, and tlicn, if necessary, the subclavian some weeks or months later. In cases where it is judged expedient to adopt this method in innominate aneurism, the common carotid should be first secured, as it is found that in cases of natural cure this vessel is the first to be obhterated. It has further been tried in mixed innominate and aortic aneurisms, and in pure aortic.