106 Applied Anatomy: "We cut through—(1) Skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) platysma; (4) deep fascia; (5) clavicular head of the pectoralis major, which must be divided across its fibres, taking care to avoid the cephalic vein, which is seen at the outer angle of the incision, in the groove between it and the deltoid. After this we meet with a quantity of fatty tissue, in which ramify the structures that pierce the costo- coracoid membrane, viz.—(a) The cephalic vein; {h) external anterior thoracic nerve; (c) thoracic axis, or acromio-thoracic artery; {d) superior thoracic artery; and (e) corresponding veins. The arm having been brought to the side, and the upper edge of the pectorahs minor muscle exposed and displaced downwards by a broad copper spatula, and any large arterial branch pulled inwards by a blunt hook, pass carefully tluough the fatty tissue, cutting as little as possible, lest the above structures be injured, till the axillary sheath is exposed. (6) Displace the vein inwards, and then open the sheath, taking special care not to wound the vein, which is superficial and internal to, and also overlaps, the artery. The cords formed by the union of the spinal nerves entering into the formation of the brachial plexus, lie to its outer side, or may partially overlap it. Clear the artery with a director, and pass the needle from the vein, and above the origin of the thoracic axis. At this part of the axilla, the artery, vein, and nei-ves, aU lie obliquely to each other—the vein overlapping the artery, and the artery overlapping the nerves. This is the position of the various structures when the arm is hanging by the side; but when it is abducted to any extent, the vein is almost right in front of the artery. Take care not to include the anterior thoracic nerve. Behind this part of the vessel is the first digitation of the serratus magnus and the posterior thoracic nerve (Nerve of Bell). Denature of this part of the axillary artery is a dangerous operation, because of-(l) Its great depth; (2) its relation to other blood vessels, e.g., the axillary and cephalic veins, and branches of the thoracic axis; (3) its relation to nerves, e.g., the external anterior thoracic in front, and the posterior thoracic behind—for these reasons, it is much better to tie the third part of the subclavian. RESUME of the chief steps of the foregoing operation :— 1. Make the curved incision, taking care of the cephalic vein at the outer angle of incision.