Surgical, Medical, and Operative. H.Sl of the humerus—it being impossible to flex the joint beyond an obtuse angle—and this is present whether the dislocation is complete or incomplete; (d) any forcible attempts at supination or extension of the arm cause severe pain; and (e) the whole fore-arm is twisted, with the outer side somewhat upwards. The orbicular ligament is torn. The other two dislocations are rare, and may be diagnosed by feeling the liead of the radius in its new position, and, as in all dislocations of the radius, tlie outer side of the fore-arm is shortened, and the movements of the joint restricted. They are often accom- panied with fracture of the external condyle into the joint. Treatment.—Extension and counter-extension by assistants, while the Surgeon presses the head of tlie bone into position. As the strength of this joint is due to ligaments, it is necessary to keep it at rest for a lengthened period to allow the ligaments to re-unite, otherwise the action of the biceps will reproduce the displacement. It should be kept perfectly quiet for four or five weeks. In dislo- cation forward, the joint must be flexed and a pad applied over the head of the bone, and kept in position by a divergent figure-of-eight bandage, which not only keeps the pad in position, but keeps the elbow joint fiexed at the same time. Some Surgeons advise that the arm should be extended and the head of the bone kept in position by a pad and straight anterior splint. If preferred, as in other injuries about the elbow joint, two lateral well-padded angular splints may be used. ° The treatment of the other dislocations, not specially mentioned, will readily suggest itself from a study of the two common forms. ' THE WRIST. The Wrist Joint.—a/c<ss, Diarthrosis; Suh-Ckm, An oblong form of hinge, with two axes of movement—a lomi (as in bending the hand backwards and forwards), and a uluiH (as in moving the hand towards the ulnar or radial sides); by some it is calLl a condyloid articulation. The hones entering into its formation are —tlie under surfiice of the radius above, and the scaphoid, semi- hinar, and cuneiform bones below; the ulna is .shut out from the joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage.