Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 321 iJuTuiiEu'.s saw J as buforc, tlie outer is cleared firsL and tlieu tliu inner, keeping iu luind the presence of the ulnar nerve. In sawing tlic humerus, grasp the part to be removed with a liou forceps to ■steady it, and make tlie line of section parallel with tlie lie of the articular suriUces; the section should pass through the upper part of the olecranon and coronoid fossie and the widest part of the condyles. The assistant then forces the bones of the fore-arm out tJie wound, the orbicular ligament is completely divided, and Uie ends of the bones cleared by the knife or elevator till the articular surflices arc thoroughly exposed; the head of the radius may now be divided by the hone forceps, and the rest of the ulna removed by the saw—or the ulna may be gi'asped by tlie lion iurceps and both bones sawn together, the section including the greater and lesser sigmoid cavities of the ulna, and beim- a httle below the latter. The order, therefore, of bone divis°ion m this excision is—(1) The olecranon process; (2) the lower end of the humerus; (3) the head of the radius; and (4) the rest of tlie ulna. It is by no means essential to divide the bones in this nrder : the lateral ligaments being divided, the radius and ulna iiay be projected back, cleared, and divided without previously Uvidmg the olecranon process, and then the lower part of the luraerus cleared and sawn. The position of the ulnar nerve at the nner side must never be let out of mind, although the nerve itself =Uuuld always be out of sight, especially during clearing of the nner condyle and final division of the ulna; the brachial artery s not m great danger, tlie brachialis anticus muscle lying between it and the wound. In clearing the bones of the fore-arm it may I.e necessary to partially separate the insertion of the brachiali.s anticus into the base of the coronoid process of the ulna, but its insertion .should not to any great extent be interfered with; the I'lceps tendon, inserted into tlie tubercle of the radius, is not, of "Mirse, touched at all. In this operation the following parts are divided—(1) The integumentary structures; (2) the separation of 'lie muscles mentioned from the bones; (3) the ligaments of the l">nt; (I) humerus, radius, and ulna; and {b) the following vessels winch require to be ligatured-(a) Branches of the superior pro- "Hla, (/;) branches of the inferior profunda, (r) the anastomotic lanch, and {,!) the railial recurrent. X ni IS I inu. i.r