Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 525 apparent for a few days after birth, such being said, in popular parlance, to be born blind, but to compensate for this few days' blindness, it is said they see in the dark ever afterwards. Its remains iu the human eye are apt to be mistaken for old iritic adhesions; they form thin shreds of the same colour as the iris, and are attached to its anterior surface close to its pupillary border. They are longer and more slender than posterior synechiaj, and are not attached to the lens capsule. The entire membrane is the anterior portion of the capsulo-imijillanj membrane, which at one time forms a complete fibro - vascular covering of the lens; the capsulo-pupillary membrane is developed from the enclosed meso- blast, and is sujDplied by a branch of the central artery of the retina, which passes forward in the axis of the globe in a canal in the vitreous humour (Canal of Stilling), and breaks up at the back of the lens into a brush of capillaries. At its circumference the iris is connected to the cornea by the Jiijamentum pedinatam iridis, which is derived from the posterior elastic lamina of that tunic. Passing through this ligament are a number of cavernous spaces, known as the spaces of Fontana ; these communicate with the canal of Schlemm, a sinus tunnelling the choroid near its corneal junction. This sinus is either a vein or a lymph canal, having a very intimate relation with the veins of the globe, and in this way, therefore, the aqueous humour is brought into very direct relation with the venous system. The pupillary margin of the iris is free, and floats in the aqueous humour; in cases, therefore, of penetrating wounds of the cornea, the iris is apt to prolapse, being carried out with the gush of the aqueous fluid. This is an exceedingly troublesome and serious complication, and unless reduced, may give rise later to recurrent attacks of iritis, or even to sympathetic ophthalmia, from the irritation caused by the adhesion of the iris to the corneal cicatrLx. Sometimes prolapse occurs in the case of Avounds, made by the Surgeon, in the ciliary region for the purpose of removing an opaque lens (cataract); to avoid this as far as possible, a small bit of the iris is removed opposite the wound, but, even with this, one must be careful to see that no part of the iris is included in the wound, as this will delay healing very much. The iris is a muscular structure, and, therefore, may be made to contract or dilate