Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 213 G. Somotiiues it may be neeessary to make use of a Single Long Dorsal Flap, should the parts iu front be hopelessly damaged, or a lateral skiu llap, as in Dubrueil's method. In amputation through the ^yrist joint, tlie following are the chief Structures divided:—1. Integumentary structures. 2. Muscles — («) Those towards the anterior aspect—tendons of the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris lougns, flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum, flexor longus poUicis, flexor carpi ulnaris ; (i) those on the posterior or lateral aspect—supinator longus, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensores carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor com- munis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor iudicis, and extensor carpi ulnaris. 3. Vessels—(«) Eadial vessels, with the superficialis volje branch; (i) ulnar vessels. 4. Nerves—(a) Ulnar, (i) radial, and (c) median. 5. Ligaments of the wrist joint. LOWER THIRD OF THE FORE-ARM. In amputating in this situation the objects are—(1) To secure a long stump, and (2) to save the insertion of the pronator radii teres, and thus give the patient more power over any artificial substitute. The assistant had better stand iu front of the liml), grasping the hand, and hold it either pronated or midway between pronation and supination, as most convenient for the operator The patient is brought to the edge of the table, the arm held at right angles to the trunk, and the elbow joint extended. The instruments necessary are —A short amputating knife, artery forceps and ligatures, a saw, bone pliers, scissors, and dissecting forceps. 1. Equal Antero-posterior Flaps.—The Surgeon should stand on the patient's right side of the limb to be removed, i.e., on the outer side of the right limb, but on the inner side of the left. The dorsal flap should be made first by dissection. The fore-arm being pronated, or else held with its dorsal surface towards the operator, he enters the knife a little to tlio palmar side of the idna (supposing he is amputating the left arm; on the right arm he would begin by entering the knife a little to the palmar side of the radius) and marks out a broad dorsal flap, almost square, with the angles rounded oil', consisting only of the integumentary