Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 409 The position of the Malleoli and tlie Scaphoid Tubercle.— The internal malleolus is more prominent and more anterior than the external; but tlie external extends lower down, and its tip is about half-an-inch behind, and half-an-inch below the tip of the internal. The tubercle of the scaphoid is nearly two inches in front of the internal maUeolus, and the sustentaculum tali is an inch below it; between these two points is the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligauient and a band from the tibialis posticus—the position of the early pain in flat foot. In effusion into tlie joint, as in Acute Synovitis, the swelling first shows itself in front beneath the anterior tendons, and at each side in the interval between the anterior edges of the lateral ligaments and the tendon of the peroneus tertius on the outer side, and that of the tibialis anticus on the inner; further, when looked at from behind the joint has an appearance of increased width, from filling up of the hoUows on each side of the tendo achiUis. In severe cases it may be possible to detect bulging of the thin posterior ligament, and obtain fluctuation on the two sides of the tendo achiUis. The foot usually assumes a position of slight extension (pointing of the toes), and some amount of inversion. In effusion into the lurm hmeath the tendo acMllis there is a swelling about an inch above the point of the heel, the tendon is more prominent and fluctuation may be obtained from side to side. DISLOCATIONS. By dislocation of the ankle is meant displacement of the trochlea of the astragalus, from the tibio-fibiUar mortise, the astragalus still retaining its natural relations with the rest of the foot. It may be dislocated in five directions—outwards, inwards backwards, forwards, and upwards (iu the order of frequency).' They are usually caused by some violent and sudden twist of the foot, as treading on the edge of the kerb-stone, or alighting from a height upon a lower level than expected, with some part of the foot, but not flatly on the sole. The antero-posterior are produced by the sudden arrest of the foot during some violent impulse of the body, as in leaping from a carriage in motion, or by some great force applied to tlic foot when the leg is fixed.