402 Applied Anatomy: The different movements of the joint are limited in something like the following manner:—Flexion is checked by tlie contact of the soft parts of the leg and thigh; hut during this movement the posterior crucial ligament and the ligamentum patellse are also tightened, but all the other ligaments are relaxed. Extension is limited by the lateral, the posterior ligament, and the anterior crucial; during this movement the posterior crucial and ligamentum patellte are relaxed. When the lunb has been brought into a straight line, over-extension is mainly checked by the tension of the posterior crucial and posterior hgaments. Forcible over-extension of the joint may rupture the posterior crucial, e.g., when the leg is supported horizontally on a chair and some heavy weight falls forcibly upon the anterior aspect of the knee. Internal rotation, or pronation (in the semi-ilexed position of the knee), is checked by the anterior crucial ligament. External rotation, or supination, is checked by the posterior crucial. The crucial ligaments are also important agents (probably the chief) in the prevention of lateral movements of the joint; hence, in cases where the bones move laterally in the extended position of the limb, there is good reason to believe that the crucial ligaments are destroyed. In cfPiision into the joint, as m Acute Synovitis, the swelling assumes a horse-shoe shape, and fii-st shows itself at the sides of the ligamentum pateUte, because at these points the synovial membrane is least supported and nearest the surface. The sweUing gradually extends upwards under the quadriceps extensor, to the extent of two or three inches above the upper border of the pateUa,^ the sweUing being higher on the inner than on the outer side of the limb. Fluctuation is readily detected by placing the fingers and thumb of one hand over the pouches at each side of the ligamentum patelliij and pressing on the large supra-patellar pouch witb the other; and if there is much fluid the patella is floated up off the surface of the femur, and by firm, sudden pressure it may be made to tap aganist it provided the fluid is not in too small quantity, or if m large quantity, not too tense, and that the quadriceps extensor is relaxed. This floating of the patella is a very valuable sign of eflusion into the joint, and may be detected before either fluctuation or swelling is very evident. To obtain this test the knee must be extended and the hii- flexed to relax the quadriceps extensor and allow the