Surgiia/, Jlfaiior/, and Operative. 4.73 Extra-Capsular Fracture is usually impacted, but may also be nou-impacted. lu the impacted variety the upper fragment is driven into the great trochanter, splitting it up and increasing its breadth, and the trochanter itself is carried nearer the middle line. It is equally common in both sexes, and most often met with during vigorous adult life from a severe direct blow to the outer side of the hip, but in older persons may result from a simple fall on the great trochanter. In the non-impacted form there IS distinct crepitus, severe pain on attempts at movement, and great shortening; on rotating the foot the trochanter rolls round a smaller circle than on the sound side. In the impacted form there is great pain, but the patient may possess a considerable amount of power over the limb; there will also be eversion shght shortening, usually about three-quarters of an inch only' and another very characteristic sign, viz., broadening of the great trochanter in the antero-posterior direction (Chiene) together with free passive motion in all directions. Hence, given a case, where the patient has had a fall on the hip, with slight eversion, three- quarters of an inch of shortening and broadening of the oreat trochanter, there can be no doubt as to what has taken place- impacted extra-capsular fracture. These simple tests further avoid all disturbance of the limb save the patient from needless pain, and one escapes the risk of nn- nnpacting an impacted fracture. If further confinnatory evidence IS wanted then we can use the previous simple test for the position ot the great trochanter. From the fact that the anterior part of the capsule is attached to the anterior inter-trochanteric line, and as this point also marks the junction of the neck of the bone with great trochanter, it is therefore anatomically impossible to have an extra-capsular fracture of the neck, at least on the anterior aspect; but, at the lower and posterior part, the capsule is attached about three-quarters of an inch internal to the iuter-trochantcric lino. In addition, of course, to these tests others may be used, as Bryantb Nelaton's, and Morris's: Bryant's line will bo shortened from half to an inch, and the trochanter is nearer the middle ine, as shown by Morris's test. In fractures of the neck Uic iho-tibial band is also relaxed (Alms).