351 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 3. Make tlie internal incision as directed, and separate the structures behind and below it very carefully, for the sake of the vessels there; if a knife be used, keep its edge directed to the bones. 4. Eemove the lower end of the tibia with the osteotome, cutting from the inner side. 5. Examine the astragalus, and dress or remove it in whole or part. 6. Clip off or pare away all diseased synovial structure as far as possible. JS'oTE. —Division of bones to be effected with Macewen's oste- otome, and without previous dislocation of the parts, if possible. After Treatment.—The method adopted is of little conse- quence, provided the following conditions are fulfilled:—(1) To keep the foot at rigU angles to the leg; (2) on no account to allow it to become everted, a little inversion is of less consequence; and (3) it must be maintained in this position during the period necessary to secure firm fibrous or osseous ankylosis—probably not less than three months—of the ends of the tibia and fibula with the astragalus. For this purpose some means must be adopted to dress the wound without disturbing the splint or moving the bony surfaces, e.g., some method like that adopted by Watson for knee joint excisions. When the parts are fairly consolidated the leg must be fixed up in some kind of immovable dressing, and gradually brought into use. °' THE MICKULICZ-WLADIMIROFF OPERATION, Osteoplastic Resection of the Foot.—In this operation the ends of the tibia and fibula, the whole of the astragalus and OS calcis, and the articular surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid bones are removed. It lias been performed in this country by Sir William MacCormac, in a case where the disease was limited', in the first instance, to the os calcis and astragalus, only involving the adjacent joints secondarily, but where the soft parts covering the heel were much infiltrated and riddled with sinuses; the patient further wished the foot preserved at all costs. The patient IS placed in tlie prone position, and the inrmon must go duwn to the horn lit anri'; tli(! Surgeon stands facing the patient's foot.