Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 417 hmjthening of the bone. In young bones the periosteum is always tirraly adherent to the epiphyseal cartilages. The mode in which bones grow in length was first proved by Hales, Hunter, and others, who introduced shot, or ivory pegs, at definite distances into the shaft of the growing bone of a common fowl, and examined them a fortnight or three weeks later; it was then found that the distance between the two pegs was only half as much increased as the distance between a given peg and the end of the bone. The Nutrition of a Bone.—A long bone has three sources of blood supply :— 1. The articular ends are supplied by the articular arteries, being cut off from the shaft proper in early Hfe by the epiphyseal cartilage. Hence it is, therefore, that the articular ends of the bones seldom perish in the disease known as diffuse iwfedice stmmratwe periostitis (-the so-called ''acute necrosis," which probably also includes the circumscribed and less extensive form as well as the diffuse), whUe the whole shaft may perish, from epiphyseal line to epiphyseal line. This is very fortunate, for were It otherwise the joints would be speedily involved, and amputation would be required almost in every case; whereas, as a matter of tact, amputation is seldom required, because the pus rarely finds Its way into the articulation. When this unfortunate accident occurs. It IS because the pressure of the septic pus separates the strong attachment between the periosteum and the epiphyseal cartilage, and thus finds its way into the joint; the importance, therefore of a free and early incision down to the hone will be at once evident. The veins, in the spongy tissue of bone especially, are peculiar-.^., in the diploc, vertebrae, ends of long bones, etc. In the first place they run in canals by themselves; and, in the second, their walls are very thin, and do not collapse ^vhen the bone IS broken across, since they are attached-to the bony tissue around them, and they often contain pouch-like dilatations, lurther, they are exceedingly numerous. Now, these facts explain two interesting pathological points-(l) How these open mouths m fracture of the bone readily take up floating oil globules, givin. me to fat embolism. This is most apt to occur in cases tvher^ the bone is broken into a numloer of fragments {commimded) and usually from two„ty.fo„v bours to three days after the accident; 2d