100 Applied Anatomy: This is the largest branch, and must he kept in mind in operations about the lower jaw, such as excision, etc.; it runs forwards on the mylo-hyoid muscle. On the face.—(1) Inferior labial, which passes beneath the depressor anguli oris to supply the lower lip and chin. (2) The two coronary arteries which pass along the free margin of each lip. They pass beneath the depressor anguli oris, and then perforate the orbicularis oris to run in a tortuous course between this muscle and the mucous membrane. AVhen the lip is struck against the teeth, the coronary artery may be divided and bleed into the mouth without any sign of external Avound, more especially in tlie case of drunk persons. The blood then trickles down the throat and is swallowed, and some time after may be vomited up, givuig rise to a suspicion of iuternal injury; in all such cases, therefore, always examine the inside of the lips. The superior is the larger, and gives off the artery to the septum of the nose. In operations about the lips, such as tlie removal of an epithelioma, these branches must be kept in mind; in this operation, performed on the lower lip by the V-shaped incision, the inferior coronary and the inferior labial are both divided. (3) Lateral nasal to side of nose. (4) Angular, its terminal branch, anastomosing at the inner angle of the orbit with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic; and this is one reason why leeches at the inner angle of the eye relieve congestion of the eye or brain. It also anastomoses Avith the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxillary in the same region. OCCIPITAL ARTERY. This vessel arises from the posterior surface of the external carotid, just as that vessel is about to pass beneath the posterior belly of the digastric. It may be divided into three parts—(1) A part that passes upwards and backwards, almost parallel witli and partially overlapped by the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid, to a point between the transverse process of the alias and mastoid process of the temporal bone. This part is usually quite superficial at first, being simply covered by the integument; afterwards it is overlapped by the muscles already mentioned, and by part of the parotid gland. It, however, crosses the following important structures—(rt) Internal carotid artery; (i) vagus; (c) m- tcrnal jugular vein; {d) spinal accessory nerve; (e) ninth nerve