222 Applied A natomy : level; it is better to divide the biceps first and allow it to retract, and then cut the brachialis anticus by another sweep, as it does not retract so much. In order to retract the tissues more easily and protect tliem from the saw, a two-tailed calico retractor may be used. As explained elsewhere, the circular method is not to be recommended when amputating through cone-shaped limbs. In this case a far better method is— 3. The Modified Circular.—This has already been fully described elsewhere (see page 185). In making the skin flaps, the best ride is to cut just according to your cloth—anywhere and anyway, pro- vided it gives you sufficient healthy tissue to cover the end of the bone. This plan should always be adopted in large muscular arms. 4. Teale's Method.—This may be used in certain very excep- tional cases. The long flap must be cut from the outer side of the arm, the short one from the inner side, and, as usual, containing the large vessels and nerves. ^Ir Spbnce used this form of amputation in cases of disease where the muscles of the arm were much atrophied, or the tissues condensed by inflammatory exudation. 5. By Equal Lateral Flaps.—The late Professor Spence strongly advocated this method when amputating at or near the middle of the arm, on account of the attachment of the deltoid muscle. When external and internal flaps are used, the external one folds over the end of the humerus, when "it is raised by the deltoid muscle; but if the flaps are antero-posterior in this situation, when the deltoid raises the arm, the bone is liable to be projected at the external an"le of the incision. Observe, in passing, that it is just the reverse in "the thi-^h; there the flaps should be antero-posterior, not lateral, else the bone projects at the anterior angle of the incisions. In a general way the Structures divided in amputations througli the upper arm are-1. Integumentary coverings. 2. Muscles-- (fl) Biceps, (h) brachialis anticus, {c) triceps, and, above the middle of the humerus, the deltoid and coraco-brachialis. 3. Vessels^ (a) Brachial vessels, (b) superior profunda vessels, (c) basilic vein, (d) cephalic vein, and (e) inferior profunda vessels. 4. Nerves- (n) Musculo-cutaneous (between the biceps and the brachialis anticus); {L) median (in close relation to and towards the inner side of the brachial vessels); (.) ulnar (accompanymg he mfexioi profunda vessels); ('0 museulo-spiral (accompanying the superiui