22101734076Med K10580HOW TO COOK EGGS AND OMELETS IN 250 DIFFERENT WAYS. BY C HERMAN SENN, Author of “The New Century Cookery Book,” “Practical Gastronomy,” “The Practical Cookery Manual,” “ Ices and How to Make them,” “ Senn’s Culinary Encyclopaedia,” “Recherche Side Dishes,” “ Breakfast, Lunch and Supper Dishes,’ “ French Menus,” etc. etc.f ^ WfcLLUUMt //foil jUtfc Call No. UBFmy V ITIS THE MOST UP-TO-DATE ROOK ON CULINARY MATTERS. THE NEW * IT IS THE MOST I ■' (COMPLETE WORK L^^-<praCTICAL cookery EVER PUBLISHED By C. HERMAN SENN. Dedicated to H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF WALES. This extensive work (nearly 1,100 pages) is brimful of useful information. It is the result of a lifetime’s experience of a practical chef, and has thus become “the Standard Authority” on the duties of the cook. Besides practical chapters on the Science of Cookery, Kitchen Management, etc., it embodies Recipes of the most recherche as well as Simple Dishes of the modern culinary art. There are some 5,000 Recipes, Cooking Methods, and Menus, and over 400 Illustrations. Price ONE GUINEA, post free 21/9. Edition de Luxe 33/- €(S% The pood & Cookery Publishing Agency, 329, VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD, LONDON, S.W. qlt W0rrvEGGS AS FOOD. * I 'HERE is perhaps no other article of -*■ diet which is more important as a food than eggs, and few articles are served in a greater variety of ways or more largely consumed. Besides those of the domestic fowl, the eggs of the duck, the goose, the guinea fowl, the plover, the ostrich and several other birds, and the turtle, are also used for cooking purposes. Hens’ eggs are, of course, the most popular, and for ordinary use are therefore most common. Dr. Langworthy, in his article, “ Eggs and their Uses,” gives the following inter- esting information :— “ Other eggs besides those of birds are sometimes eaten. Turtle eggs are highly prized in most countries where they are abundant. They were once more com- monly eaten in America than now, possibly owing to the more abundant supply in former times. The eggs of the terrapin are usually served with the flesh in some of the ways of preparing it for the table. Fish eggs, especially those of the sturgeon,4 are eaten in large quantities, preserved with salt, under the name of caviare. Shad roe is also a familiar example of the use of fish eggs as food. Mention may also be made of the use of the eggs of alligators lizards, serpents, and some insects, by races who lack the prejudices of Western nations. However, in general, the term ‘ eggs,’ when used in connection with food topics, refers to the eggs of birds, usually domestic poultry, and is so used in this article. “ The appearance of an egg—the shell with its lining of membrane, enclosing the white and yolk—is too familiar to need any discussion. The physiological structure of the egg is perhaps less familiar. A fer- tile egg contains an embryo, and is at the same time a storehouse of material for the development and growth of the young individual from the embryo, until it has reached such a stage that life is possible outside the narrow limits of the shell. The embryo is situated quite close to the yolk, which furnishes the nutritive mate- rial for its early development, the white being used later.” April, 1905. C. H. S.5 CONTENTS AND INDEX. A FACE Almond Eggs (moulded) 26 Anchovy Eggs (cold) ... 51 Anchovy Eggs (another way) ... ... 36 Aspic or Savoury Jelly ... 109 B Baked Eggs a la Princesse ... ,,. 37 Bechamel Sauce ... ... ... 108 Brown Sauce ... ... ... 108 Buttered Eggs ... ... ... 23 Buttered Eggs with Anchovies ... ... 23 Buttered Eggs with Truffles 24 C Caviare Eggs ... ... 70 Chaudfroid of Eggs (cold) 72 Cheese Eggs 62 Coddled Eggs ... ... ... 105 Creamed Eggs with Mushrooms... 29 Curried Eggs ... ... 45 Curried Eggs (another way) 45 Curry Sauce ... 109 D Devilled Eggs 65 Devilled Egg Toast # ... 46 Digestibility of Eggs, The ... 12 Dropped Eggs ... 44 E Egg Bouillon ,, Coffee ,, Croquettes ,, Croustades ,, Crofites with Game ... ,, Cutlets ,, Cutlets with Spinach ,, Darioles ,, Fillip Flip ,, Fritters a la Milanaise ,, Fritters a la Royale „ Jelly (sweet) ,, Jumbles ,, Kromeskis ,, Nog (cold) ,» Nog (hot) Nouilles ,, Patties ,, Pie ,, Ragoflt a la Frangaise ,, Ragout a la Princesse ,, Rarebit ,, Salad 103 104 38 26 54 31 32 67 105 106 33 59 103 69 33 105 105 106 5i 49 68 49 67 766 Egg Savoury Cream on Toast 39 ,, Souffl6 39 „ Tartlets 7» ,, Tea ,, Water *o6 ,, Wine *04 Eggs Anchovy (another way) .. 36 ,, Baked a la Princesse 37 ,, en Banquettes 77 ,, a la Belloy 77 „ au Beurre Noir 66 ,, a la Boston 69 ,, Buttered 23 ,, Buttered, with Anchovies 33 ,, Buttered, with Truffles 34 ,, a la Creme 38 ,, a la Carnot 53 ,, in Cases ... ... 43 ,, Chaudfroid of (cold) ... 72 ,, Cheese 62 ,, with Cheese 88 ,, a la Chiffonade 58 ,, a la Chipolata ... 6t ,, en Cocottes 68 „ Coddled 105 ,, a la Colbert 34 ,, a la Coque en Surprise 30 ,, a la Coquette 35 ,, a la Cosmopolite 76 ,, a la Courtet 74. ,, Creamed, with Mushrooms 39 ,, with Cucumber ... 38 ,, Curried 45 ,, Curried (another way) 45 ,, Devilled 65 ,, a la Dreux 40 „ Dropped 44 „ a l’Eue:6nie 76 ,, a la Florentine 76 ,, Freshness of Eggs to test 13 ,, Fricassee of 27 ,, Fried, a la Creole 47 ,, Fried Croutes of (sweet) 102 ,, Fried, Curried 46 „ Fried a la Fermiere 36 ,, a la Fermiere 36 ,, on Rice Crofites 59 ,, Frosted 104 ,, a la Gagnor 74 ,, a la Garfield 56 ,, a la Gourmet 77 ,, k la Grand Due 77 ,, a la Granville 78 ,, au Gratin 62 „ Gruyere 63 „ a la Hussard 78 ,, Ham (cold) 47 ,, Hard-boiled ... ... ... ... 14 ,, k l'lndienne 36 ,, a l'ltalienne 57 ,, a la St. Jacques 4* ,, Lobster 50 ,, a la Loubet (cold) ik ,, a la Lucullus 58 ,, a la Lyonnaise 64 „ a la Madame 687 Eggs a la Maintenon ,, a la Maire ,, a la Marie ,, a la Marie Louise ,, en Matelote ,, Mayonnaise of ,, a la Medicis ,, with Melted Cheese ,, a la Messina ,, a la Mode de Caen ,, a la Montpensier ,, a la Mornay ,, a la Neige ,, a la Norfolk ... ,, with Nouilles a la Carola ,, with Nut Brown Butter ,, a l’Orientale ,, a la Pacha „ la Parmentier ,, in Parsley Sauce ... ,, a la Pasqual ,, Patties ,, a la Piemontaise ,, sur Plat ,, Poached ,, Poached a la Garibaldi „ Poached a la Carigen ,, Poached a l’Espagnole ,, Poached, Imperial Style ,, Poached in Potatoes ,, Poached a la Provengale ,, Poached a la Reine ,, Poached with Spinach ,, Poached with Tongue ,, Poached in White Wine ,, Poached a la Remoulade ,, a la Polonaise ,, a la Princesse ,, in Puff Pastry ,, Pyramids a la Reforme „ a la Reine ,, a la Rialto ,, a la Richelieu „ a la Rossini ,, a la Royal ,, a la Russe ,, a la St. Germain ,, a la Salamandre ,, Salmon ... ,, Salpicon of ,, Sandwiches ,, Sardine „ Sauce ,, Savoury, and Tomatoes ,, Scalloped with Spinach ,, Scotch Scrambled „ Scrambled (another way) ,, Scrambled with Asparagus Tips ,, Scrambled, in Cases ,, Scrambled with Cepes ,, Scrambled with Ham ,, Scrambled with Herbs ,, Scrambled with Mushrooms ,» Scrambled with Peas ,, Scrambled with Rice Scrambled with Tomatoes 89 78 58 S3 60 4» 63 5<5 28 78 ss 78 78 16 66 44 28 33 48 SS 3i 5<5 i i 14 15 15 15 18 18 17 15 17 19 16 ss 57 65 60 5<5 59 72 29 53 59 7i 77 34 ao 30 75 Si 106 67 29 53 20 20 22 33 21 22 21 21 22 20 228 Eggs Scrambled with Tongue 23 ,, in Shells 63 ,, Snow, Vanilla Flavour 102 ,, Snow, Lemon Flavour 102 ,, Soft-boiled 14 ,, a la Soubise 65 ,, Spanish 50 ,, Shirred 44 ,, Steamed ... 104 ,, Steamed a la Bechamel 68 ,, Stuffed a l’Aurore (cold) 71 ,, Stuffed with Anchovies ... 35 ,, Stuffed on Crohtes .... 41 ,, Stuffed on Crofites a la Madras ... ... 37 ,, Stuffed with Prawns ... ... 52 ,, Stuffed Swiss style 42 ,, Stuffed a la Volga (cold) 73 ,, a la Tomate ... ... 55 ,, Tomato 51 ,, and Tomatoes Brouilles 48 ,, and Tomato Custard 46 ,, a la Tripe 62 ,, a la Turque 25 ,, a la Villeroi 26 ,, a la Waldimir ... ... ... 61 F Food Value of Eggs 11 Freshness of Eggs, To test 13 Fricassee of Eggs 27 Fricassee of Eggs (another way) 27 Frosted Eggs ... 104 G Gruyere Eggs 63 H Ham Eggs 47 Hard-boiled Eggs 14 Hollandaise Sauce ... 107 How to Turn out Omelets ... 81 How to Preserve Eggs 13 How to Shape an Omelet 81 L Lobster Eggs 50 M Mayonnaise of Eggs 71 Mayonnaise Sauce 107 N Notes on Sweet Omelets 06 R Rules for Making Omelets 79 S Salmon Eggs 49 Scotch Eggs 52 Snow Eggs 102 Soft-boiled Eggs 14 Spanish Eggs 50 Steamed Eggs 104 Steamed Eggs a la Bechamel 68 Shirred Eggs 44 Supreme Sauce 109 T Tomato Eggs 51 Tomato Sauce 1089 OMELETS American Omelets Anchovy ,, Asparagus ,, Bayonne ,, Bearnaise ,, Bernoise ,, Bonne Femme ,, Brain ,, Charentiere ,, Cheese ,, Cucumber ,, Curry „ English ,, Fish Puff Friar’s ,, Frosted ,, Ginger Ham ,, How to Shape ,, Italienne ,, Jam Jardiniere ,, With jelly ,, Kidney ,, Kirsch ,, Leek ,, Lentil ,, Lobster ,, Madras ,, Marechale ,, Marmalade ,, Mousseline ,, Mushroom ,, Maintenon ,, Notes on Sweet ,, Onion ,, Orange Puff ,, Oyster ,, Parisienne ,, Parmentier ,, Parmesan ,, Peach ,, Paysanne ,, Perigord ,, Plain ,, Portugaise ,, Princesse ,, Puffed or Soufflee ,, Raphael ,, Reforme ,, Reine (Queen) ,, Rules for Making ,, Rum ,, Salmon ,, Sardine ,, Savoury ,, Shallot Flavour ,, Soufflee ,, Spinach ,, Surprise ,, vSweet ,, Tomato ,, To turn out an ,, Truffle ,, Vienna ,, 93 91 88 90 90 84 83 90 84 88 90 90 82 96 101 100 97 92 81 94 98 94 98 87 97 85 86 91 03 85 98 99 87 89 96 91 101 92 94 94 86 98 94 94 82 95 95 99 84 95 95 80 96 92 9i 82 82 99 90 100 97 89 81 8g 0*Lemco for nourishing Soups Lemco for delicious Sauces Lemco for Entrees and Curries Lemco for fine Gravies Lemco for Sick-room Cookery Beef in most concentrated form. The original and only genuine Liebig Company’s Extract.II Food Value of Eggs. The average weight of a hen’s egg is about two ounces avoirdupois. The composition of the white of an ordinary hen’s egg is :— Nitrogenous matter 20.4 Fatty matter 10.o Mineral matter 1.6 Water 68.0 Composition of the yolk :— Nitrogenous mdtter 16.0 Fatty matter 30.7 Mineral matter 1.3 Water 52.0 It will thus be seen that eggs are almost a complete food, being particularly rich in nitrogenous elements. Dr. Parrott, in writing on the chemistry and dietetic value of eggs, states that, as compared with other articles of food, eggs contain on an average 4 per cent, less pro- tein and 6 per cent, less fat than sirloin steak, half as much protein and one-third as much fat as cream cheese, and twice as much protein, with ten times as much fat, as oysters. Their fuel value is about two- thirds that of beef, and but one-third that of good cheese. Compared with wheat flour, eggs contain an equal amount of pro- tein, ten times as much fat, but less than half as much fuel value. Eggs contain practically no carbohydrates, while wheat flour contains 75 per cent. Chemically speaking, therefore, eggs are rich in building and repair material, but do not furnish a proportionate percentage of energy. This is why it is now admitted that eggs do not furnish perfect nutrition12 for the adult body. It must, however, be remembered that Nature endows the diges- tive organs with a considerable degree of vital discretion, or power of transforma- tion ; so that both proteids and carbohy- drates are to a certain extent commuted into energy, and vice versa. The white of egg is comparatively free from fat; fat, however, is found in the yolk. The egg is a concentrated economic form of wholesome human food, which supplies at times a desirable substitute for flesh food. The cost of eggs compares most favourably with other food products, being about 25 per cent, per pound cheaper than rump steak ; whilst their food value ranks as high, if not higher than meat. The Digestibility of Eggs. The digestibility of eggs is about the same whether raw, lightly cooked, or thoroughly cooked. The time required to digest a cooked egg varies from 3-4 hours. This will seem incredible to those who have always been accustomed to insisting upon their eggs being “ soft-boiled,” or lightly cooked. Digestibility, says Dr. Parrott, however, does not imply so much the rapidity with which food leaves the stomach as the completeness of its ab- sorbability and appropriation by the sys- tem. Experiments in this have demon- strated that a healthy stomach digests a hard-boiled egg quite as thoroughly as a soft-boiled one ; but this does not prove that the process is as quickly accomplished or that the hard-boiled egg does not com- pel a somewhat greater effort on the part of the digestive organs. With healthy persons the degree of cooking may there-*3 fore be made wholly a matter of taste. Any process of cooking will harden the albumen of the egg. To Test the Freshness of Eggs. There is but one opinion as to this, eggs should be perfectly fresh, else they are not worth using at all. The easiest way to ascertain the fresh- ness of eggs is to hold the egg between the thumb and forefinger, before a strong light. If fresh it will be transparent at the centre, and the outline of the yolk should be plainly seen ; when stale, it will appear cloudy and dark. Another way to test eggs is to make a solution of one part of salt and two of water. Good eggs will sink to the bottom, whilst stale ones will float. How to Preserve Eggs. There are several methods of preserving eggs, and of these salt and lime has proved the most reliable. Put into a pan Jib. of salt and lime the size of an egg ; boil a gallon of water and pour over hot. When cold strain it over the eggs to be preserved. The best time to preserve eggs is in April and August. Eggs thus preserved will keep good for several months.14 HOW TO COOK EGGS. CD Soft-boiled Eggs. Place the eggs, which should be new laid, into water, which should be just below boiling point (about 165 deg. Fahrenheit). Keep the water at this temperature and allow the eggs to remain in it for 10 min- utes. If so treated, eggs will be of a soft and jelly-like consistency. When re- quired rather more cooked, allow 20 minutes, but do not let the water get to the boiling point, or if required in a hurry boil the eggs for three minutes and serve. (2) Hard-boiled Eggs. Put the eggs in cold water and bring to the boil, allow to cook fast for 10 minutes, and place them into cold water to cool, and remove the shells carefully. C 3 ) Poached Eggs. (CEufs poches.) Use a shallow pan, and half fill it with water, add salt to taste, and the juice of half a lemon or a table-spoonful of vinegar; when boiling, break each egg carefully into a cup and slip gently into the boiling water. Allow to simmer till the white of the egg and the yolk are set; then take up each carefully with a skimmer or slice, drain and trim the edges and serve on plain or buttered toast, cut to the desired shape. Dish up and garnish with crisp parsley.i5 <*) Poached Eggs a 1’Espagnole. Cook four ounces of washed and drained rice in half a pint of stock, add to it one ounce of fresh butter, and season to taste. Arrange a neatly shaped bed of the rice (which should be almost dry when cooked) on a hot dish, and upon it place five or six neatly trimmed poached eggs. Pour a little hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish and serve. (5) Poached Eggs a la Garibaldi. Poach carefully six to eight new-laid eggs; drain them well, and stamp out each with a round cutter. Reduce half a pint of rich bechamel, into which in- corporate a table-spoonful of grated Par- mesan cheese and three yolks of eggs. Mask each egg with this sauce. When set and cold., egg and crumb them twice. Fry them in deep fat, drain, and dish up on a hot dish covered with a lace paper or napkin. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce. (6) Poached Eggs a la Reine. Mince rather finely half a pound or more of cold cooked chicken or turkey, freed from skin, bone., and gristle. Fry this in a little butter, and moisten with sufficient bechamel sauce to form a light salpicon. Keep hot. Poach in slightly salted water six new-laid eggs ; trim them neatly. Put the mince in a round dish, and place the eggs neatly upon top. Glaze them with liquefied meat glaze, or Lemco, and surround the dish withi6 eight small halfmoon-shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. (7) Poached Eggs in White Wine. (CEufs poches au vin blanc.) Poach carefully six to eight eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with white wine (Chablis or Sauterne) and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready as many fried bread croutons as there are poached eggs. Take up the eggs, trim them neatly, and place them on the croutons, then dish up. Have ready a sauce prepared with one gill of re- duced white wine, an ounce and a half of meat glaze, and one ounce of butter; the latter must be whisked in in very small quantities,, and must not boil. Season with a good pinch of cayenne or Krona pepper. Mask the eggs with the sauce, which must be thick enough to coat them nicely, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over each egg, and serve. <8) Eggs with Nouilles a la Carola. Prepare some nouille paste (page 106), cut it into very thin strips, and blanch in salted water for three minutes ; drain and toss in butter. Season with nutmeg and pepper, and put some on a buttered fire- proof dish. Upon this range a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of nouilles, and lastly a layer of fresh mush- rooms, seasoned and tossed in butter. Dredge well with grated cheese. Cover with a well-reduced bechamel sauce. Sprinkle over some grated cheese and a little oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes.C9) Poached Eggs with Spinach. (CEnfs fioches aux Epinards.) Get ready the following' ingredients: — Six fresh eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon juice or white vinegar, one and a-half pounds of spinach, one and a-half ounces of butter, one table-spoonful of rich brown sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg, two slices of toasted bread. Pick and wash the spinach, put it in a copper stew-pan with very little water and cook for half an hour. Put it in a colander and drain well, squeezing out all the water. Rub the spinach through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the spinach puree, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; moisten with the sauce and cook gently for twenty- five minutes or so. Have ready a shallow stew-pan with boiling water, slightly salted; add the vinegar or lemon juice. Break each egg carefully into a cup and gently slide into the boiling water (great care must be taken so that they do not scatter). Allow the eggs to cook until perfectly set, but without allowing the yolks to get hard. Have the spinach dressed neatly on a hot dish; take up each egg by means of a slice or small skimmer ; trim each a little and place on the spinach. Pour a little demi-glace sauce or gravy round the dish; garnish with sippets of toasted bread and serve immediately. CIO) Poached Eggs a la Provencale. (CEufs poches a la Trovcn^ale.) Peel and slice three small onions, fry them to a nice light brown colour in an ounce of butter, drain off the butter and Bi8 add a sliced and peeled ripe tomato, six chopped mushrooms, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; moisten with a little brown sauce, and keep simmering for a few minutes. Season with salt and pepper and keep hot. Poach carefully six to eight fresh eggs, as directed in No. 3. Prepare six to eight rounds of toasted or fried bread, about the size of the eggs; butter them and spread them thickly with the onion puree; place a poached egg on each round of bread. Dish up, pour a little hot brown sauce over the eggs, and serve hot. <11 > Poached Eggs, Imperial style. (CEufs poches a Vlmperiale.) Poach six to eight fresh eggs and trim them neatly. Drain them on a sieve and let cool. Fill as many preserved artichoke bottoms, slightly hollowed out, with some seasoned macedoine of tomatoes. Upon this place slices of ripe vegetables. Coat the eggs with prepared remoulade sauce and dress them upon the tomato slices. Sprin- kle over some finely cut strips of tongue and chopped parsley. Dish up, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. (12) Poached Eggs in Potatoes. (CEufs a la Suzette.) Get ready the following ingredients:—- Four large oval even-sized potatoes, half a gill of well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 251), one ounce grated Parmesan cheese, half an ounce of Gorgona cheese (grated), eight small poached eggs,, a table-spoonful of “ Panurette ” seasoning. Wash and scrub the potatoes, and bake them in a fairly sharp oven till tender.i9 Cut them in halves lengthways with a sharp knife, and scoop out the soft part by means of a dessert-spoon. Incorporate the grated Parmesan cheese into the bechamel sauce. Rub half of the potato puree obtained through a sieve and mix with a little bechamel sauce, etc., season with salt and pepper, and line the shells of potatoes with this; then put in a layer of sauce, and upon this place a neatly trimmed poached egg. Sauce over carefully with more bechamel, sprinkle freely with grated Gruyere cheese, a pinch or two of Krona pepper and some Panurette. Place them on a buttered baking tin or saute-pan and brown in a hot oven or under the salamander. Dish up on a hot dish, covered with a folded napkin, and serve at once. (13) Poached Eggs with Tongue. (CEnfs poclies a VEcarlate.) Take six new-laid eggs., six slices of cooked ox-tongue, one gill gravy or rich brown stick, one small glass of sherry or Marsala, salt, pepper, lemon juice,, one and a-half gills of rich bechamel sauce (No. 251). Poach the eggs in boiling water, slightly salted and flavoured with lemon juice. Cut the slices of tongue into neat shapes, about the size of the egg, when poached. Chop the trimmings of tongue very finely. Put the slices of tongue in a saute-pan with the gravy and wine, and heat up thoroughly. Take up the eggs, drain and trim them; place each upon a slice of tongue and arrange on a hot dish; season with salt and pepper,, sauce over carefully with hot white or brown sauce. Put a little chopped tongue in the centre of each egg, and serve hot. B 220 (14) Scrambled Eggs. (CEnfs brouilles.) Beat up four or five fresh eggs, add a table-spoonful of milk or cream and a table-spoonful of rich gravy, pour this into a saucepan, add an ounce of fresh butter, and stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set. Have ready two slices of toasted and buttered bread, place them in a hot dish, and pour the egg mixture upon them. Serve hot. (is) Scrambled Eggs (another way). (CEufs brouilles.) Beat up four fresh eggs and add to them two table-spoonfuls of cream and two table-spoonfuls of stock, season to taste with salt, pepper and a grate of nut- meg. Pour this into an enamelled sauce- pan or fireproof earthenware pan, add half an ounce of fresh butter and stir over a moderate fire till the eggs just begin to set and are of a cream-like appearance. Have ready some squares of toasted and buttered bread, pour over the eggs, and serve hot. (16) Scrambled Eggs with Rice. (CEufs brouilles au riz.) Fry three table-spoonfuls of cooked rice in an ounce of butter, add to it four well- beaten eggs and a table-spoonful of cream, season to taste, and stir in a stew- pan over the fire till the eggs thicken. Dish up on rounds of buttered toast, pour a little brown or tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve.21 (17) Scrambled Eggs with Herbs. (CEnfs brouilles aux fines herbes.) Add to four beaten eggs and one table- spoonful of cream one dessert-spoonful of finely chopped parsley, chervil, and chives, also three to four chopped preserved mushrooms^ season with salt and pepper, cook and serve as directed for scrambled eggs. (18) Scrambled Eggs with Mush- rooms. (CEnfs brouilles aux champignons.) Get ready the following ingredients: Five eggs, two ounces fresh butter, six to eight preserved mushrooms., a table- spoonful of cream, salt and pepper, two rounds of toasted bread. Break the eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt, beat up well and add the cream, and the mushrooms (chopped finely), melt the butter in a stew- pan, pour in the mixture of eggs., cream, etc., and stir over the fire till the eggs begin to set. Have ready the toasted bread, well buttered, on a hot dish, pour the prepared eggs over the toast and serve hot. Great care must be exercised not to over-cook nor under-cook the mixture, otherwise the dish will be spoilt. A few thin slices of streaky bacon, nicely fried, served round this dish will be found a great improvement. (19) Scrambled Eggs with Cepes. (CEufs brouilles aux cepes.) Proceed the same as directed for scrambled eggs., adding six to eight pre-22 served cepes (a species of mushrooms), finely chopped, before scrambling the eggs. (20) Scrambled Eggs with Tomato. (CEufs brouilles aux tomates.) Toss in butter two small, ripe, peeled and sliced tomatoes, then pour in the seasoned egg mixture and proceed the same as directed for scrambled eggs. (21) Scrambled Eggs with Peas. (CEufs brouilles aux petits p'ois.) Adopt one of the formulas for scrambled eggs, and when the eggs begin to set add half a gill of cooked green peas, well drained and tossed in a little fresh butter., and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Mix well and serve on rounds of buttered toast. (22) Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus Tips. (CEufs brouilles aux pointes d' asperges.) Proceed the same as explained in the foregoing recipe, but use cooked aspara- gus tips in place of green peas. (23) Scrambled Eggs with Ham. (CEufs brouilles au jambon.) Fry in an ounce of butter two ounces of chopped lean ham (cooked or raw), pour in the egg mixture (same as for scrambled eggs), stir over the fire till just setting, then dish up on croutons of bread, fried or toasted, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve.23 <24) Scrambled Eggs with Tongue. (CEufs broutlies a VEcarlatc.) Proceed the same as directed in the pre- ceding recipe, but substitute for the ham cooked ox-tongue, which must be fried very lightly. (25) Scrambled Eggs in Cases. (CEufs brouilles en caisses.) Scramble four eggs the same as directed for scrambled eggs with herbs, No. 17. Fill the cooked mixture into small china or paper ramakin cases (buttered), insert a tiny sprig of parsley on top of each, dish up and serve. <2 ft) Buttered Eggs. Break four fresh eggs into a basin, add sufficient salt and pepper to taste, beat up with a fork, so as to thoroughly mix the whites with the yolks, put one and a-half ounces of butter into a small stew-pan, add the eggs and a tablespoon- ful of milk, stir over the fire until the mix- ture begins to thicken and is hot through (it must not on any account be allowed to boil). Have ready a slice of hot buttered toast, put this on a hot dish or plate. Put the egg mixture on to this., garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, or sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and serve quickly. C 2 7y) Buttered Eggs with Anchovies. (CEufs brouilles aux anchois.) Take six eggs, one teaspoonful anchovy essence, one and a-half ounces butter, two table-spoonfuls cream., six Gorgona24 anchovies, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt, toasted slices of bread. Wipe the anchovies with a damp cloth, remove the fillets, and cut into strips. Cut the toast in oblong slices about three inches long and two inches broad, and butter them. Beat up the eggs ; put them, together with the anchovy essence, an ounce of butter., and the cream, in a small stewpan; add a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; put an equal quantity on the buttered side of each piece of toast, and lay the strips of anchovies across each in the shape of lattice-work. Place a caper in each cavity, dish up, put the dish in the oven for a few minutes, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. (28) Buttered Eggs with Truffles. (CEufs brouilles aux Truffes.) Get ready the following:—Six eggs, one and a-half ounces butter, one large truffle, half a glass Marsala, salt, pepper, nutmeg, one slice toasted bread. Cut the truffle into fine shreds; put in a stewpan with the wine and a tiny piece of butter; cover and reduce the liquid to about half its quantity. Break the eggs into a basin; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; mix thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stewpan, pour in the eggs, stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; then add the truffle, etc., quickly. Mix well together ; stir over the fire for another minute; then turn on a hot dish on a slice of buttered toast; dress in a heap, garnish with a few sippets of toast, and serve.25 (29) Eggs a la Turque. Break six to eight eggs into a basin,, season with pepper and salt and a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley. Whisk them well and stir into a stewpan containing an ounce of melted butter; stir over the fire till the eggs are set enough to be turned out, then dress them in the form of a border on a hot round dish. Have ready a saute of chicken livers (finely sliced and tossed in butter, flavoured with shallot and parsley, and suitably sea- soned) ; put these in the centre of the dish, pour some hot tomato sauce (No. 252) round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. (30) Eggs a la Coquette. Take six to eight new-laid eggs, one ounce butter, about half a gill cream, three ounces lean ham or tongue, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Procure six to eight small china souffle cases; butter them well; put a small piece of butter in each of them,, also a table-spoonful of cream, a pinch of salt, and a little grated nutmeg ; place them on a baking-sheet in a hot oven or on the top of the stove. When the contents com- mence to simmer break carefully into each one egg; put a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper in the centre of each yolk ; put back on the stove or in the oven, and allow the eggs to set lightly. Have ready the ham or tongue finely chopped, sprinkle over the white part, so as to leave the yolks free ; serve hot.26 ( 31 ) Egg Croustades. Prepare a salpicon of egg's as described in No. 45, and fill with it some small croustade cases made of rice, potato, semolina or bread; when filled place them in a hot oven for a few minutes,^then dish up and garnish with fried parsley. (32) Almond Eggs, Moulded. Butter six to eight small bouche cups and scatter the bottom with shreds of almonds, previously baked to a fawn colour. Break a fresh egg into each, season with salt, pepper, and a tiny grate of nutmeg, and sprinkle over each some chopped baked almonds. Bake in the oven till just set, then turn out on small round croutons of fried bread, and dish up. Pour a nicely seasoned tomato or demi- glace or Madere sauce round the base of the dish and serve. (33) Eggs a la Villcroi. Poach six to eight small eggs in sea- soned stock or milk; take up, drain, and trim neatly, then put them on a wire tray and coat them well with thick Hollandaise sauce; dip in bread-crumbs and let set. Next egg and crumb them and fry in hot fat. Dish up and serve with tomato sauce. (34) Eggs a I’lndienne. Prepare an onion puree, same as directed for Eggs a la Soubise (seeNo. 122). Add to it a level dessert-spoonful of curry powder mixed with a little cream, and let the sauce simmer gently for another ten27 minutes. Poach in seasoned milk six fresh eggs, drain and trim them neatly; put the onion puree in a dish and range the eggs on top; garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread, and serve with a small dish of plainly cooked rice. C 35 ) Fricassee of Eggs. This dish can be made in three ways— by steaming the yolks and whites of eggs separately and cutting them out into cubes, dice, or other shapes; by slicing three or four hard-boiled eggs; or by poaching small eggs in stock or seasoned milk. In each case the eggs must be heated up in a rich white sauce and allowed to simmer for a short time. Season with salt, pepper, and very little nutmeg. Use bechamel, supreme., or veloute sauce for this purpose. (36) Fricassee of Eggs (another way). (Fricassee d’ceufs.) Boil six eggs for twelve minutes, lay them in cold water, take off the shells, cut them in halves crosswise, take out the yolks for garnish. Peel a shallot and chop finely. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew- pan,, add the shallot, and fry a golden colour. Add half a gill of bechamel sauce, let it come to a boil, mix in one gill of cream ; when hot put in the whites of eggs, and season to taste. Stir gently, or better, shake the pan so as not to break the slices, and keep on the fire until hot. Warm up the yolks in a little thin white sauce, dress them in the centre of a dish, put the whites neatly round the yolks, sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and garnish with a few croutons of fried bread.28 (37) lfV Eggs a la mode de Caen. Slice four hard-boiled eggs, cook them in a rich white cream sauce, with slices of Spanish onion (previously cooked in milk and stock); dish up and serve. (38) Eggs a la Careme. Shell four hard-boiled eggs, cut them in halves, remove the yolks, and stuff with a mixture composed of fried chopped shallots., parsley, sorrel, and yolks of eggs. Bake them for five minutes, dish up, and serve. (39) Eggs a la Pacha. Slice four to five hard-boiled eggs, mix with mushroom heads,, and heat up care- fully in tomato sauce (No. 252); arrange a rice border on a hot dish and put the egg mixture in the centre; serve hot. (40) Eggs with Cucumber. ((Enfs aux concornbres.) Peel thinly a large-sized cucumber., cut off the ends, and divide the rest into i|in. to 2in. pieces. Take a column cutter and stamp out carefully the centre portion of each piece of cucumber. Place them in a buttered saute-ipan with a little stock; cover with a buttered paper and cook in the oven till just tender. Great care must be taken so as not to break the shapes. Beat up three eggs, add to this a table- spoonful of tomato pulp and half an ounce of butter; season nicely and stir over the fire till creamy and just set. Place the cucumber shapes on a hot dish and fill the cavities with the prepared eggs. Sauce over with tomato sauce, and serve hot.29 <41) Creamed Eggs with Mushrooms. (CEufs aux champignons.) Beat together five eggs., season them with salt and pepper, add two table-spoon- fuls of cream, and half an ounce of butter. Stir over the fire in a fireproof casserole till nearly set, then add twelve finely chopped or sliced mushrooms (previously tossed in butter), and a little chopped parsley. Continue to stir the mixture over the fire for another minute or two, then dish up on buttered pieces of toast and serve. (42) Eggs a la Richelieu. Select four even-sized (but not too large) ripe tomatoes, remove the stems and cut each in halves crossways; remove the core and pips,, and fry them lightly in an ounce of butter in a saute or frying pan. Cut out some rounds of buttered toast to a little larger than the tomatoes. Beat up three eggs in a stew-pan„ add to it a table-spoonful of cream, some chopped pimientos (about a table-spoonful) and half an ounce of butter; season to taste, and stir over the fire till creamy and just setting. Place each half tomato on a round of toast, fill the tomato with the egg mixture, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. (43) Scalloped Eggs with Spinach. (Cotelettes d* ceufs aux epinards.) Pick and wash a pound of spinach, and cook it with very little salted water till tender,, then drain, press well, and chop3® finely, or pass it through a sieve; season nicely and reheat with a little cream or butter. Poach six or seven eggs as directed in No. 3. Butter the same num- ber of scallop shells and put a table-spoon- ful of spinach in each; upon this place a poached egg and spread over with more spinach. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese and bread-crumbs; place here and there a tiny piece of butter, and bake in a hot oven or brown under a sala- mander for a few minutes. Dish up, gar- nish with parsley, and serve. (44) Eggs a la Coque en Surprise (Cold). For this dish fresh eggs are carefully emptied, and refilled with scrambled egg mixture, blended, when cold, with mayon- naise (No. 249). Dish them neatly on a bed of crisp cress, and serve. (45) Salpicon of Eggs. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat up the former with a little cream, and poach each separately in buttered moulds or cups. When firm and cooled, turn out and cut into cube shapes, dice or julienne strips. Put these into a small stewpan and add six sliced pre- served mushrooms, one large truffle cut in small dice or strips, and a slice of tongue or ham cut similarly. Heat up in a little well-seasoned bechamel sauce. Dish up, when quite hot, on a round or oval dish, garnish the salpicon with triangular slices of toasted or fried bread, and serve.31 (46) Egg Patties. (Bouchees aux ceufs.) For this a salpicon as described in the preceding recipe may be prepared, or plain hard-boiled eggs can be cut into dice or strips, in place of the custard; the truffle, ham, or tongue may, if liked, be added, in which case use rather less mushrooms. Have ready some small puff- paste patty cases, fill them with the salpicon,, place the lid on each, dish up, reheat, then garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. (47) Egg Cutlets. (Cotelettes aux ceufs.) Boil four eggs till hard (allow io min- utes), cool them and remove the shell, then chop them, not too finely. Chop likewise, but rather finer, two ounces of cooked bacon or ham, and about a dessert- spoonful of parsley. Prepare a white sauce with i oz. butter, | oz. of flour, stirred in and kneaded, and a gill of milk, full measure. Cook it for a few minutes and stirring all the time to prevent lumps forming. Now add the above-named ingredients, mix well and season with salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Spread on to a dish and let cool. Divide the mixture into eight or nine portions and shape each into a cutlet. Egg and crumb them carefully, and fry them in deep hot fat. Drain well, insert a small piece of macaroni at the end of each cutlet, to represent the bones. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.32 <48) Egg Cutlets with Spinach. (Cotelettes d'cenfs aux epinards.) Take four hard-boiled eggs, two raw eggs, half a pint of bechamel sauce, three ounces lean ham, six mushrooms, one tea- spoonful chopped parsley, one pound cooked spinach, one ounce butter, one table-spoonful cream, salt, pepper, nut- meg, two shallots, mashed potatoes for border, bread-crumbs, frying fat to fry. Reduce the sauce to about i| gills, chop coarsely the hard-boiled eggs, ham, and mushrooms. Stir two raw yolks of eggs in- to the sauce, let it bind without boiling ; then add the chopped eggs, ham, mush- rooms, and parsley ; season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Spread on a dish or plate and let cool. Pass the spinach through a sieve, peel and chop the shallot, and fry in the butter to a golden colour, put in the spinach, then season to taste. Mix the cream with a little flour and stir into the spinach and cook for ten minutes. Shape the egg-mixture into neat cutlets, then egg and crumb them. Fry in hot fat, drain, dish up on a border of potatoes on a hot dish, fill the centre with the prepared spinach, and serve. (49) * Egg Fritters a la Milanaise. (Beignets d'ceufs a la Milanaise.) Cut four hard-boiled eggs into halves lengthwise, and carefully remove the yolks. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, and add half-ounce of flour ; moisten with half a gill white stock or milk, stir till it thickens ; then add one raw egg-yolk and allow to bind. Incorporate one ounce of33 chopped lean ham or tongue and four ounces chopped cooked chicken or veal, one teaspoonful finely chopped parsley, one small shallot, chopped and fried in butter, lemon juice, pepper, salt, and the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs. Fill up each white with this, egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in hot clarified butter. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a rich tomato sauce. <50) Egg Kromeskis. (Cromesquis (Tceufs.) Take three hard-boiled eggs, half a gill of bechamel sauce, half an ounce of chopped ox tongue, frying batter, two raw yolks of eggs, half a teaspoonful finely chopped truffle, five thin pancakes (un- sweetened), frying fat, seasoning. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices and chop rather coarsely, put them in a stew- pan, moisten with the sauce and the egg- yolks, season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg, stir over the fire till hot, and add the truffles and tongue ; mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into even- sized corks, wrap each in a square piece of pancake, dip into frying batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with crisp parsley. (51) * Eggs a la Parmentier. Take three large potatoes, one gill of rich cream, one ounce of grated cheese, six small eggs, sauce (bechamel or supreme)., half an ounce of butter, bread- crumbs. Wash and scrub the potatoes, dry them, and bake them in the oven, cut them into c34 halves and scoop out the mealy parts. Poach the eggs in slightly salted water flavoured with lemon juice, trim them. Put a little sauce in each half of the pota- toes, place an egg in each. Mix the re- mainder of sauce with half the cheese. Cover with the sauce and cheese, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs,add grated cheese ; divide the butter in little bits and place on top, brown in a very hot oven, dish up, and serve quickly. <52> Eggs a la Colbert. This is a simple and delicious dish emi- nently suitable as an after-dinner savoury, but requires great care and careful atten- tion in order to make the eggs presentable and of good shape during the process of frying. Take four or six new-laid eggs, break each very carefully in a cup, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over about half a teaspoonful of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese, drop each very gently into a pan of hot fat or frying oil—the latter if of good quality is preferable for this purpose. Keep the eggs in shape, and turn frequently by means of a wooden spoon. Fry them to a pretty golden colour, then take up and drain them on a cloth or kitchen paper. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle over with grated cheese, and serve quickly. <63) Eggs a la Salamandre. Six to eight eggs, six to eight slices of toasted bread, two ounces of cooked ham or beef-tongue, one ounce of butter, one gill well reduced bechamel sauce, three35 ounces of grated cheese, salt, pepper, cayenne, one teaspoonful chilli vinegar, or one table-spoonful French wine vinegar. Have ready a saute-pan half filled with water ; add the vinegar and sufficient salt to taste. Pound the meat in a mortar till smooth, add half the butter, i oz. cheese, and sufficient sauce to forma smooth paste, season it with pepper, and rub through a sieve. Stamp out as many oval shapes of toasted bread as there are eggs, butter them well, and spread one side thickly with the puree above prepared ; place them on a dish when ready and keep hot at the mouth of the oven. Break the eggs carefully into the saute-pan containing the seasoned water (boiling), poach for three minutes, take up with a slice, trim and place on the prepared toasts, mask quickly with bechamel sauce, sprinkle well with cheese, brown them under a red-hot salamander, dish up, and serve. (64) Stuffed Eggs with Anchovies. (CEufs farcis aux anchois.) Take four hard-boiled eggs,, four Gor- gona anchovies,, one ounce of butter, a few sprigs of parsley,, tomato sauce, bread- crumbs, eight rounds of toasted bread, cut to the size of the eggs. Peel the eggs, cut them in halves long- ways, take out the yolk, remove skin and bones from the anchovies, put them in a mortar and pound; add the butter, a little blanched parsley, also a pinch of pepper; pound this until quite smooth, then take out and rub through a sieve. Fill the halves of whites of eggs with this preparation, and stand each on a round piece of toast. Sprinkle over with some C 236 fresh bread-crumbs, place on a buttered silver or china dish, and put in the oven for a few minutes., so as to get thoroughly hot; sauce over with tomato or Italienne sauce, and serve quickly. (55) Anchovy Eggs (another way). Shell four hard-boiled eggs and cut each in half crossways, using a sharp knife. Remove the yolks and pound them in a mortar with a table-spoonful of anchovy paste or six anchovy fillets, when smooth add a little anchovy essence and a table- spoonful of double cream. Season with a pinch of cayenne or paprika. Rub this puree through a fine sieve, and fill with it the eggs. Have ready eight rounds of toasted or fried bread croutes the size of the half egg, spread these over with the remainder of the puree, and place half an egg on each, cut side upwards (a little portion of the white of egg can be cut off so as to make them stand firm on the croutes). Place a star-shaped piece of tongue in the centre of each egg. Dish up, garnish with parsley., and send to table. (66) % X Fried Eggs a la Fermiere. Grill or broil eight thin slices of lean bacon or ham, fry the same number of eggs in a little butter or bacon fat, trim each neatly and place on a slice of bacon or ham. Range these in the form of a border round a dish^ fill the centre with a mixture of vegetables (macedoine de legumes) heated and mixed with a little white sauce. Garnish the centre with Parisian potatoes (marble-shaped potatoes,37 blanched, drained, and baked in the oven, or fried). The dish is then ready for serv- ing. (57) Baked Eggs a la Princesse. Have ready the following- materials: — Six eggs, six rounds of fried bread, one ounce of butter, two ounces of cooked ham or tongue, parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, asparagus-point ragofit, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; break the eggs one by one into a basin and slide them into the pan, and cook them in the oven until the whites are set; season lightly with white pepper and salt. Cut them out with a plain round cutter and place each on a crouton of fried bread. Ornament the eggs with alternate little groups of chopped ham or tongue, chopped parsley, and chopped yolk of egg (hard-boiled). iDress them neatly on a round dish; put them in the oven just a second or two; fill the centre with a ragout of asparagus points, and serve. (58) Stuffed Eggs oxy Croutes a la Madras. Take four hard-boiled eggs, two and a- half ounces butter, one ounce anchovy paste, one teaspoonful curry paste, one teaspoonful chutney, one table-spoonful cooked spinach, eight small round slices of bread, also two pickled red chillies or pimiento for garnish. Peel the eggs, cut them in halves cross- ways, scoop out the yolks and put in a mortar, add to this ounces butter, the anchovy paste, curry paste, and chutney ;38 pound until quite smooth, and rub through a sieve. Fill the hollows of the whites of eggs with this. Have ready eight rounds of bread a little larger than the cut sides of the eggs, fry them to a golden colour in but- ter or lard, when drained and'cold spread one side with the remainder of the mixture, cut the points off the eggs so as to make them stand firmly, and place each half in the centre of a croute. Cut out fanciful pieces of the chilli pod or pimiento, put one in the centre of the stuffing, mix the spinach with the butter, rub all through a fine sieve, put this into a forcing-bag or paper cornet, and ornament the sides and tops of croutes according to fancy. Keep in a cool place. Dish up when required for table. <59\) Egg Croquettes. (Croquettes d'CEufs.) Chop rather coarsely four hard-boiled eggs; chop likewise, but rather finer, two ounces of cooked tongue or ham, and about a dessert-spoonful of parsley. Pre- pare a white sauce with one ounce of butter,, three-quarters of an ounce of flour stirred in and blended, and a gill of milk. Cook it for a few minutes, stirring all the time to prevent lumps from forming. Now add the above-named ingredients; mix well, and season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Spread the mixture on to a dish and let it cool. Divide the mixture into eight or nine portions and make each into a ball or cork shape; egg and crumb them carefully, and fry them in deep hot fat. Drain them on a cloth. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.39 <60) Egg Souffle. (Souffle aux CEufs.) Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan,, fry, i.e., blend in it, a peeled and finely chopped shallot,and stir in three-quarters of an ounce of Brown and Poison s cornflour. Cook for a few minutes, but do not allow it to get brown. Next incorporate five yolks of eggs and place the pan in another containing boiling water, and whisk over the fire till the mixture thickens, then add eight chopped preserved mushrooms, and let it cool a little. Whisk to a very stiff froth the whites of four eggs, and stir carefully into the mixture of yolks, etc., previously seasoned with salt., pepper, and a good pinch of paprika. Pour this into a large buttered souffle case or several small ones (china ramakin cases will do nicely). Place in a saute-pan containing some boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes if small cases are used, or twenty-five minutes when a large case is used. Dish up and serve quickly. (61J Savoury Egg Cream on Toast. (Creme aux CEufs sur croutes.) Get ready the following ingredients: — One ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, one gill of cream, about half a gill of milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful chopped parsley and savoury herbs (tarragon and chervil)., salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, three or four slices of toasted bread. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour and let it cook a little over the fire and add the cream and milk. Stir con-4o stantly until it thickens, let it simmer very slowly, taking care that it does not burn or curdle. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix the yolks with the sauce, season with salt, pepper and cayenne; stir in carefully,, or rather fold in the whisked whites of eggs and add the parsley and savoury herbs at the same time. Have ready the toast cut into convenient slices; put the mixture on these heaped up; smooth over with the blade of a knife. Pass in a hot oven until of a golden colour, dish up, and serve quickly. (62) Eggs a la Dreux. Get ready the following ingredients : — Six eggs, quarter of a pound of lean ham (cooked), one dessert-spoonful chopped parsley, half an ounce of butter, half a gill of cream, six rounds of buttered toast. Butter thickly six deep patty-pans, chop the ham finely and mix with the parsley, sprinkle well the patty-pans with this, so as to completely cover the inside of each, break an egg carefully into each patty-pan, season with a pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne, and divide the cream equally on top of each egg; put also a tiny piece of butter in each. Put the tins in a saute- pan three-parts full of boiling water, place in the oven,, and poach until the whites are completely set. Have ready some rounds of buttered toast as nearly as possible the size of the patty-pans, turn out the egg-shapes, and place them carefully on the toast. Dish up and serve hot.4i C ®3 ) Eggs a la. St. Jacques (Cold). Line eight to nine small bouche moulds with puff paste or rough puff paste (roll out the paste rather thinly, and stamp out the rounds necessary for lining with a fluted cutter). Prick the bottom of the paste with a fork. Fill them with rice or dried peas, and bake them in a moderate oven to a golden colour. Unmould whilst hot. Brush over the outside and inside with beaten yolk of egg mixed with meat glaze, and return to the oven for a few minutes, then let cool. Poach, in smaller- sized bouche moulds than those first used, as many eggs as are necessary. Unmould them and let cool, then mask them with aspic, and set each in one of the prepared paste crusts. Decorate with chopped aspic tinted with a little spinach greening. Dish up tastefully, and serve. (64) Eggs a la Medicis. Drain a handful of slices of pickled beetroot on a cloth., and saute them in a saute-pan with fresh butter over a moder- ate fire. To this add four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, season with pepper and salt, add a good teaspoonful of chopped parsley and moisten with half a gill of cream, cover the pan and place it in the oven for about ten minutes. Dish up neatly, and serve hot. (66) Stuffed Eggs on Croutes. (CEufs far$is stir croutes.) Get ready the following ingredients : — Three hard-boiled eggs, two Gorgona42 anchovies (boned), one teaspoonful Eschelot vinegar, half a teaspoonful Worcester sauce,, one ounce butter, a few sprigs of finely chopped tarragon and chervil, six round slices of fried or toasted bread about ifin. in diameter, chopped parsley and some paprika pepper. Remove the shells from the eggs, cut them in halves, crossways, take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar with the anchovies, wh,en smooth add the butter, mix thoroughly and add by degrees the Eschelot vinegar and the Worcester sauce. Rub this through a sieve and fill the cavities of the whites of eggs with the puree,, cut the points off the eggs so as to make them stand. Put the remainder of the puree in a forcing bag with a plain tube. Put a little of it in the centre of each croute, place the eggs upon it, decorate round and on top of the eggs with the savoury puree, sprinkle some finely chopped parsley and paprika pepper over the surface; this must be done rather artistically so as to make the dish effective. Range them on a dish covered with a fancy paper. Garnish with sprigs of water- cresses or crisp parsley, and serve. (66) Stuffed Eggs, Swiss style. (CEfs farris a la Suisse.) Boil six small fresh eggs till hard, and when cold peel them. Cut each through the centre with a column cutter and so remove the yolk portion. Next make a mixture as follows: Chop an ounce of ham or tongue, or a similar quantity of cold chicken or veal, one small truffle or some truffle trimmings, three or four stoned olives, and six to eight preserved mush-43 rooms, all chopped up finely. Season with salt and pepper,, and moisten with a little bechamel or other good white sauce. Fill the cavities of the eggs with this, and replace at each end the small round of white of egg cut off to remove the yolk. Brush over the stuffed eggs with a beaten up raw egg, and roll in bread-crumbs. Have ready some hot fat, in which fry the eggs to a nice golden brown. Drain them on a cloth or paper. Dish up, gai- nish with fried parsley and serve. (67) Eggs in Cases. (CEufs en caisses.) Get ready the following ingredients: — Six small eggs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, one of grated Parmesan cheese, half a gill of cream,, one ounce of butter, pepper and salt, six paper cases, one shallot, sweet olive oil. Oil the inside of paper cases, and place them on a baking-tin in the oven for a few minutes. Peel the shallot and chop finely, fry a little in olive oil, then drain and put it, equally divided, into the cases. Mix the bread-crumbs,, half the parsley, and Par- mesan cheese, adding a little pepper. Put about a dessert-spoonful of this and a tiny piece of butter into each of the cases; carefully break an egg into each case ; sea- son with pepper and salt. Divide thecream equally and pour over each egg, sprinkle with a little Parmesan cheese, and bake in a moderate oven for about six minutes. Take out, and brown the surface under a salamander or hot shovel, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve quickly.44 (68) Shirred Eggs. Butter three or four small round gratin dishes holding- about three eggs each, and besprinkle with brown bread-crumbs. Break carefully two or three fresh eggs on each dish, and place them in the oven, with a tiny bit of butter on top of each yolk of egg, and allow to just set the eggs; season with salt and pepper and send to table. (69) (Eufs sur plat. Proceed the same as directed in the pre- ceding recipe, by merely omitting the bread-crumbs. In place of using gratin dishes, ordinary plates can be made do for this purpose. (70) Dropped Eggs. These are poached eggs cooked in sea- soned milk. Allow them to poach for barely five minutes,, then take up each with a skimmer, trim neatly or stamp out with a round cutter. Place the eggs on nicely-toasted and buttered slices of bread, dish up, and serve. (71) Eggs a rOrientale (Cold). Shell four hard-boiled eggs, fry half a small onion, minced finely, in half an ounce of butter, then add to it a dessert-spoonful of curry powder and a gill of stock, and let all simmer for fifteen minutes. Add a dessert-spoonful of Bengal Club or other good chutney, mix it well, and rub through a sieve. Cut the eggs in halves and take out the yolks; cut off a little of the bottom of each part of the whites to make them45 stand. Put the yolks into the mortar with the curry pur6e, pound and mix thoroughly. When mixed fill up the whites of the eggs with it, piled up high, and insert a tiny sprig of watercress in each. Dish them up on a bed of nicely seasoned small salad, and serve. (72) Curried Eggs. Boil four eggs till hard, remove the shells, cut two into eight parts., and chop up the others not too finely. Fry half a small onion in an ounce of butter to a golden brown, add one dessert-spoonful of curry powder, and moisten with half a pint of rich stock; add also half a minced apple (small), or a few chopped green goose- berries. Cook for twenty minutes, and strain, then put in the chopped eggs. Sea- son to taste, and heat up thoroughly. Place a border of cooked rice on a round dish, put the curry in the centre, and arrange the remaining two hard-boiled eggs,, cut in sections, round it. Serve hot. (73) Curried Eggs (another way). Peel, slice, and chop a small onion, and fry to a pale golden brown in half ounce of butter; then add one dessert-spoonful of curry powder and one of flour; fry both a little and moisten with a gill of gravy or rich stock; stir till it boils, then simmer for fifteen minutes and strain. Cut into rather thick slices four hard- bofled eggs, put them into a saute-pan and pour over the strained sauce. Season with salt and pepper., add a tablespoonful of cream and the juice of a quarter of a lemon. Heat up gently but thoroughly, taking care not to break up the egg slices. Serve with plainly boiled rice.46 (74) mwfc Of Fried Curried Eggs. Boil four or five eggs till hard, cut them in halves crossways., remove the yolks, pound them in a mortar, adding sufficient well-seasoned white sauce to form a smooth paste; add a dessert-spoonful curry or mulligatawny paste, and a dessert-spoonful of cream. Refill the whites of the eggs with the mixture, smooth it over with a knife, and cover each with a layer of cooked rice which has been boiled until quite soft, mixed with butter, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Put the curried eggs aside until the rice is cold and set, then dip each into beaten egg, roll in soft bread-crumbs, and fry them in deep, hot fat. Drain them well, dish up and garnish with fried parsley. This dish is also nice cold. (75) Egg and Tomato Custard. Break four eggs into a basin, beat up and add three table-spoonfuls of tomato pulp (that is,, fresh ripe tomatoes rubbed through a fine sieve), one table-spoonful of cream and one table-spoonful of grated cheese. Season with salt, pepper, and nut- meg. Butter six or seven small souffle cases, fill them with the prepared custard, and bake them slowly in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up and serve quickly. (76) Devilled Egg Toast. (Croutes cl’ceufs a la Diable.) Shell three hard-boiled eggs, cut some of the white part into fine strips to be used for garnish, and chop up the remainder47 rather finely. Mix with one table-spoonful of chutnev, one teaspoonful of mustard, and one table-spoonful of curry paste; mix well and season with cayenne and paprika pepper. Heat this up in a fire- proof casserole. Have ready eight to ten oblong slices of toasted and buttered bread; spread each with the prepared mixture; arrange the strips of white of egg in the form of lattice work on top of each slice of toast. Dish up, reheat, gar- nish with parsley, and serve. (77) Ham Eggs (Cold). (CEufs au Jambon.) Shell four hard-boiled eggs, cut them in halves crossways and scoop out the yolks. Chop finely two ounces of lean cooked ham, and pound it with the egg yolks. Season nicely with Krona or paprika pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Incorpor- ate one or two table-spoonfuls of rich cream and pass through a fine sieve. Fill the hollow part of the whites of eggs with the prepared puree, and place each cut side down on oval-shaped slices of ham or tongue, previously spread over with ham puree; then range them on slices of toasted bread a little larger than the egg- halves. Put the remainder of ham puree in a forcing bag and decorate the sides of the eggs with this, also fancifully cut slices of gherkins, and tomatoes, or beetroot. Dish up and surround with finely shredded seasoned salad. (78) Fried Eggs a la Creole. Cook enough rice (about three to four ounces) in rich white stock to fill a good-48 sized border mould. Before moulding, mix it with half an ounce of grated cheese and one ounce of chopped ham, and season to taste. With this fill a buttered border mould and place it in the oven to keep hot. Heat up half a pint of olive oil in a small shallow pan, drop in five or six eggs, frying only one at a time; great care must be taken that the yolk of egg is kept well coated with the white part, in fact each egg should be just like a poached egg, only that it is cooked in hot oil, instead of water. As the eggs are fried drain them carefully and trim nicely, then place them in the centre of the rice border, which must be turned out on a hot dish. Pour over the rice some nicely sea- soned hot tomato sauce, and serve. (79) t Eggs and Tomatoes Brouilles. Peel three small ripe tomatoes and slice them ; fry them in an ounce of butter, and pour in four well beaten and seasoned eggs; stir the whole over the fire till the eggs thicken or begin to set, then dish up and place six thinly cut slices of frizzled bacon on top. Serve hot. (80) Eggs in Parsley Sauce. (CEufs a la poulette.) Boil six new-laid eggs for just five minutes, and shell them carefully; cut off one end of each and range the eggs on a hot dish. Pour over a nicely seasoned parsley sauce—that is, bechamel or other good white sauce., with finely chopped parsley and a little lemon juice—and serve.49 (81) Egg Pic. (Fate aux ocufs.) Shell five hard-boiled eggs and cut them into slices not too thin. Mash a pound of cooked mealy potatoes and mix with an ounce of butter, and a little cream. Sea- son well with salt, pepper, and very little nutmeg. With this line the bottom of a buttered pie dish and place in a layer of sliced eggs. Scatter over some chopped parsley and cover with a little white sauce. Continue this till the eggs are used up. Let the last layer be a coating of sauce, and cover the top with mashed potatoes, smooth this over carefully with a wetted knife and mark a neat pattern on top with the point of a knife or a fork; brush over with beaten egg and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. (82) Salmon Eggs. ((Eitfs au Saumon.) Shell four hard-boiled eggs and place them in cold water. Flake half a pound of cooked salmon, freed from skin and bones, then chop it,, not too finely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, stir in half an ounce of flour, and let it cook for a few seconds ; moisten with half a gill of fish stock, and stir till it boils and thickens. Cook whilst stirring for a few minutes longer, then add the chopped salmon; mix thoroughly with half a beaten egg; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. When thoroughly hot put the mixture on to a cold plate and set to cool. Divide the mixture into four even-sized portions, flatten out each portion and wrap D5° it round each egg; this must be done very neatly. Brush over the eggs with beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs, then fry in hot fat to a golden brown. Take them up and drain; cut each egg in half crossways and dish up on croutons of fried bread. Put a tiny pinch of chopped parsley in the centre of each yolk and gar- nish the dish with fried parsley and thin slices of lemon. (83) Lobster Eggs. (CEufs a VHomard.) Proceed the same as directed in the fore- going recipe, but use lobster in place of salmon, or., if preferred, take half lobster and half salmon. (84) Spanish Eggs. (CEufs a I'Espagnole.) Get ready the following ingredients: — Four hard-boiled eggs, four ounces of tongue, a few capers and gherkins, lemon juice, parsley,, three Spanish olives, two anchovy fillets, a few drops of salad oil, toasted buttered bread. Cut the eggs in halves across, take out the yolks and rub through a sieve. Cut off a small piece of the tips of the whites to make them stand even. Chop half the tongue rather finely, and mix with half the yolks of eggs. Stamp out six nice rounds of buttered toast about the size of the cut side of the eggs. Sprinkle over thickly with tongue and yolks. Cut the remainder of tongue, and gherkins, olives, and anchovies into fine shreds ; mingle gently with a few drops of oil and lemon juice; add a little chopped parsley and the5i capers, also a pinch of white or red pepper, whichever is preferred. Fill up the cups of white of egg, fill up rather high but loosely. Stand each on a round piece of pre- pared toast, dish up, garnish, and serve as cold savoury or breakfast dish. (85) Anchovy Eggs (Cold). (CEnfs a VAnchois.) Get ready the following ingredients: — Four hard-boiled eggs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one table-spoonful anchovy essence or paste, two ounces of butter, pepper, small cress for garnish. Remove the shells from the eggs, cut them in halves and take out the yolks. Put the yolks in a mortar, add the butter and anchovy essence or paste, pound well, season with a little pepper, mix with the chopped parsley, and fill the eggs with this. Cut off the tips so as to make them stand, arrange them neatly on a dish, surround with small cress or other small salad, and serve. (86) Sardine Eggs. (CEufs a la Sardine.) Proceed in the same manner as de- scribed in the foregoing recipe, but use boneless sardines or sardine paste in place of anchovies or anchovy paste. (87) Tomato Eggs. (CEufs a la Tornate.) Boil four eggs till very hard, then place in cold water, and remove the shells. Cut each egg in half, and spread the cut side with anchovy paste. Butter a fireproof D 252 china dish,, range the eggs on the dish cut side down, on slices of tomato. Pour over enough tomato sauce to cover the eggs completely, and sprinkle over with well-seasoned bread-crumbs. Cook in a hot oven for eight minutes, and serve im- mediately. (88) Scotch Eggs. (CEufs a VEcossaise.) Boil four eggs for ten minutes, cool and shell them. Skin one pound of pork sausages, and mix with one yolk of egg. Dip each hard-boiled egg' in flour, then coat each over with a thin layer of the sausage meat. Beat up a raw egg on a plate, brush over the covered hard-boiled eggs, then roll them in bread-crumbs and fry them in hot fat to a golden brown. Drain them on paper or a cloth. Cut each neatly in half crossways. Dish up on rounds of fried or toasted bread, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Serve hot with tomato sauce, or cold with mayonnaise sauce. (89) Stuffed Eggs with Prawns. (CEufs farcis aux Crevettes.) Take four hard-boiled eggs, twelve large or eighteen small prawns, three Gor- gona anchovies, one and a-half ounces of butter, one tablespoonful bechamel sauce. Remove the shell from the eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, scoop out the yolks and put them in a mortar, add the boned anchovies and picked prawns, and pound very fine. Rub all through a wire sieve; return to the mortar, add the butter and bechamel sauce, mix thoroughly, and season to taste. Fill up53 the hard-boiled whites of egg-, place a prawn-head in the centre of each, sprinkle the surface with a little grated Parmesan cheese; put them on a buttered dish or saute-pan, and bake in a hot oven for about five minutes. Dish up neatly, sauce round with hot tomato sauce, and serve. (90) Eggs a la Carnot. Trim neatly some artichoke bottoms oi a nice white colour, cut the edges into a fancy border, and keep warm in some dis- solved meat glaze and stock. Have ready some rather rich chicken puree, blend it over the fire with a little fresh butter. Poach a new-laid egg for each fond, put a table-spoonful of chicken puree in the fond, trim the eggs nicely, place on top, dish up, sauce over with gravy, and serve. (91) Eggs a la Rossini. Butter a large fireproof gratin-dish, and break into it six fresh eggs, season with salt and pepper and put a tiny piece of butter on each egg. Place the dish in the oven and cook till the eggs are barely set. Toss some finely sliced chicken liver in a little butter, season with salt and pepper and add a piece of foie-gras pate., cut into small slices, moisten with a little truffle sauce and dish up. Cut out by means of a paste cutter the baked eggs, place them neatly on top of the liver., return to the oven for a few seconds and serve. (92) Eggs a la Marie-Louise. Poach six small fresh eggs as directed in No. 3. Range them in an entree dish54 serve. and sauce over with Madere sauce. Have ready some finely shredded ox-tongue, truffles and preserved mushrooms, heat them up first, and sprinkle over the eggs just before serving. (93) Egg Croutcs with Game. (Croutes aux ceufs Roches a la chasseur.) Get ready the following ingredients: — Six fresh eggs, a loaf of stale bread, six ounces cooked game, one shallot, half an ounce of butter, six preserved mushrooms, three table-spoonfuls brown sauce (Espag- nole or Madeira), pepper and salt, fry- ing fat, parsley. Prepare some oval croutes of bread, the size of an egg, 2in. by i|in., and about an inch in thickness. Fry these in hot fat a pale brown; drain and scoop out the centre of each croute so as to form cases (this must be done while the croutes are hot). Pound the game in a mortar, add the shallot, chopped finely and blended in a little butter, the mushrooms, previously chopped, when smooth add the brown sauce. Season to taste and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Keep the puree hot until required. Meanwhile poach the eggs very care- fully in slightly salted water containing a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. Fill the cavities of the croutes with the pre- pared puree, trim the eggs to an oval shape, and place one on each of the croutes. Dish up on a hot dish, with a folded napkin, put a tiny pinch of paprika pepper on the centre of each egg, garnish the dish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and55 (94) Eggs a la Mornay. Butter a fireproof or gratin dish., and place in it six hard-boiled eggs, cut into thick slices. Season with salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Mix a gill of bechamel sauce with an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, pour this over the eggs, and besprinkle the top with grated cheese. Place here and there small bits of fresh butter,, using about a pat for this. Put the dish in a very hot oven to brown the top, which should be of a pale brown colour when done. Send the dish to table, and serve very hot. (95) Eggs a la Tomatc. Proceed as directed in the preceding recipe, using slices of hard-boiled eggs and slices of peeled tomatoes. Season to taste and pour over half a gill of rich tomato sauce. Besprinkle with grated cheese and oiled butter, then bake in a sharp oven, to brown the top and serve. (96) Eggs a la Pasqual. Poach six small eggs in seasoned milk, trim, drain and mask them when cold with white chaud-froid sauce; dress them in a nest made of baked nouilles, and serve. (97) Poached Eggs a la Remoulade. Poach six or seven small eggs,, dress them on artichoke bottoms; garnish with vegetable macedoine and julienne strips of tongue and tomatoes; sauce over with cold remoulade sauce or mayonnaise mixed with chopped gherkins, capers, and tomato pulp.56 (99) Egg Pyramid a la Ref or me. These are stuffed halves of hard-boiled egg's, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled over with finely shredded ham and truffles. Sauce over with a rich brown sauce, and bake in a quick oven. (100) Eggs a la Garfield. These are very similar to Scotch eggs (No. 88). Take some hard-boiled eggs, re- move the shells, and cover them with a layer of chicken farce or sausage meat, egg and crumb them with crushed vermicelli, fry in deep fat or clarified butter, and serve with piquante sauce. (101) % Eggs a la Messina. Toss in fresh butter as many small arti- choke bottoms (preserved) as may be re- quired, and drain them. Poach carefully the same number of eggs, and trim them. Range the artichoke bottoms in the form of a border on a round dish, and place a poached egg in each. Mask the whole with a well-reduced Bordelaise sauce, put a thin slice of cooked beef marrow and a slice of truffle in the centre of each egg. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. (102) ^ / Eggs a la Piemontaise. Cook four ounces of Italian rice in rich stock, and add enough tomato sauce to colour the rice, then put in two table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese and two slices of fried bacon, cut into small strips. Season to taste and reduce to a57 puree firm enough to shape. Fry in clarified butter six or seven fresh eggs, trim each neatly or stamp out with a round paste cutter. Put the rice in a greased flat mould, and turn out on a hot dish. Place the fried eggs in a circle round the edge of the rice shape,, put a tiny pinch of black pepper in the centre of each yolk of egg, and serve. C1 03 ) Eggs a l’ltalienne. Cook some rice as directed in the pre- ceding recipe, when ready add to it three or four chicken livers, previously sim- mered and tossed in butter. Make a bor- der of this and turn it out on a hot dish. Fill the centre with scrambled eggs, as directed in recipe No. 15, pour a little tomato sauce over and round the rice border, and serve. (104) Eggs a la Polonaise. Fry a teacupful of small dice of bread in clarified butter, when of a pale brown colour take up and drain them. Beat up six eggs in a basin,, add to it a teaspoon- ful of finely chopped parsley and chives, a table-spoonful of cream, and season with salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly and pour into a small stew-pan containing two table-spoonfuls of clarified butter; add, also, the fried bread croutons. Stir over the fire till the mixture is thick enough to spread. Drop it by means of a spoon into hot clarified butter, and fry nicely. Take up, drain, and dish up. Serve hot.serve. 5» (105,) Eggs a la Marie. Prepare six poached eggs, drained and cut out with an oval cutter; place them on oval croutes of fried bread, dish up, and besprinkle the eggs with finely shredded ox-tongue, mixed with fine shreds of black truffle. Pour a little Madere sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. (106) Eggs a la Lucullus. Cut three hard-boiled eggs into quarter- inch slices, crossways., and spread them over with a thin layer of “ Lucullus ” puree. Upon the paste place a round of cooked ham or bacon, cut thinly and of the same size as the eggs; next dip the prepared slices (sand- wiched together as directed) into a light frying batter; drop them into hot fat or clarified butter, and fry to a nice golden brown. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (107J Eggs a la Chiffonade. Boil up a quart of seasoned water, con- taining a little lemon juice, in a stew- pan, and poach in it six fresh eggs; pour off the water, then take a whisk and beat up the eggs to a loose mixture; next pour in about half a pint of nicely sea- soned tomato sauce and half an ounce of fresh butter. Stir this over the fire till thoroughly heated. Have ready on a hot dish a border of cooked and seasoned rice, put the egg mixture in the centre and59 (108) ^s. _ Eggs a la Reine. Prepare and fry six rounds of croutons of bread about 2jin. in diameter and Jin. thick. Spread one side rather thickly with a light chicken farce., previously poached and cut to the required size. Upon these place six nicely trimmed poached eggs. Dish up, pour some rich cream sauce round the base of the dish, and besprinkle the eggs with a little chopped truffle, then serve. For cream sauce use either supreme, veloute, or bechamel enriched with cream. (109) Fried Eggs on Rice Croutes. (CEufs frits sur croutes de riz.) Wash four ounces of Patna rice and cook it in seasoned stock till tender. It must be reduced to a fairly firm texture and seasoned rather liberally with paprika. Spread it on a greased dish and set to cool. Stamp out six rounds by means of a paste cutter, then egg and crumb them and fry the rounds of rice in clarified butter. Melt half an ounce of butter in a fry- ing or large omelet pan, break in six fresh eggs, season with salt and pepper, and fry till just set, then cut out the eggs with a paste cutter and place each on the pre- pared croutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. The rice croutes can be baked crisp in the oven if liked. (110) Egg Fritters a la Roy ale. Break six fresh eggs into a basin, sea- son with salt and pepper, and stir in two6o table-spoonfuls of cream. Beat up to mix yolks and whites of eggs thoroughly, then strain into a well-buttered flat tin mould. Put this in a saute-pan containing a little water and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes or till the custard is set. When done and cooled, unmould the shape and cut it into Jin. thick strips 2jin. long. Have ready a light frying batter; dip the egg strips in this and fry in hot fat to a delicate brown colour. Drain, dish up, and serve with spinach or other suit- able vegetables as garnish, or separately. (in) Eggs cn Matelote. Peel and slice thinly two small onions and fry a delicate brown in one ounce of butter, then drain and add a glass of claret and a gill of brown herb sauce; re- duce the whole and keep hot. Poach six eggs as directed in No. 3. Dish up the eggs on croutes of fried bread or rounds of toast, previously spread with anchovy paste. Pour over the prepared sauce, and garnish the dish with curled up anchovy fillets and turned olives, previously heated in a little stock. Serve hot. (112) Eggs in Puff Pastry. (CEufs en feuilletage.) Get ready the following materials: — Five hard-boiled eggs, half a pound of puff-paste, one raw egg, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, clarified butter or lard for frying. Remove the shells from the eggs, mix a little white pepper with some fine dry salt, roll four eggs in this. Roll out the puff-paste about one-eighth of an6i inch thick, wrap up each egg in the paste, brush the edges of the paste so as to close the ends securely, egg and bread-crumo over twice, place them in a wire basket, and fry in hot butter or lard a nice light brown (this must be done very carefully to ensure the paste getting done through). Cut some rings about a quarter of an inch thick of the remaining hard-boiled egg. Take out the yolk, put each fried egg on a ring so that they may stand up- right ; dish up in a circle on a folded napkin; fry a handful of picked, washed, and dried parsley, put this in the centre of the dish, and serve. (113) Eggs a la Chipolata. Prepare and fry six oval croutes of bread, hollowed out in the form of an egg. Boil for five or six minutes six fresh eggs, then plunge them in cold water for a second and remove the shell very carefully. Brush over the croute of bread with liquid meat glaze or Lemco, and place on each a boiled egg. Dish up, surround the egg with groups of bread and glazed button onions, slice-shaped pieces of fried bacon, small fried potato balls (pommes parisienne), glazed young carrots and small glazed chestnuts. These must be heated up in Madere sauce. Pour over enough of the said sauce to coat the eggs, and serve. (114) Eggs a la Waldimir. Break four new-laid eggs in a well- buttered fireproof dish, sprinkle over with chopped truffles and asparagus points, seasoned, strewn with grated Parmesan cheese, slightly browned in the oven, then send to table.62 (115) Eggs a la Tripe. Make a rich onion sauce as directed in No. 9, and add a gill of cream. Boil four to six eggs hard, shell them and cut up in slices, heat these up in the sauce. Dish up,, and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. (116) Eggs au gratin. Butter a fireproof baking or gratin dish and spread over a table-spoonful of cold bechamel sauce. Cut into fairly thick slices six hard-boiled eggs, and range them on the dish, spreading bechamel sauce and grated cheese between the layers of egg. Season each layer w ith salt and pepper, and coat the top completely with white sauce. Sprinkle over soft bread-crumbs, grated cheese,, ginger or Parmesan, and place a few' tiny bits of butter here and there. Bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes, then serve. (117) Cheese Eggs. (QLufs an frontage.) Beat up four eggs in a basin, and add to it two ounces of grated Cheddar cheese. Season with salt and pepper, pour this into a saucepan containing half an ounce of butter,, and stir continually over the fire till the mixture begins to set, and looks like scrambled eggs. Have ready some slices of buttered toast, placed on a hot dish, pour or spread the egg mixture over, and send to table.63 (118) Gruyere Eggs. (CEufs a la Gruyere.) Cut half a pound of Gruyere cheese into thin slices and line with it a buttered shallow dish. Break over it carefully five or six eggs ; season with salt, and pepper. Add two or three table-spoonfuls of cream, and cover with the remainder of slices of cheese, grated or finely chopped. Strew over some bread-crumbs, and place a few tiny pieces of butter here and there on top. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes and serve hot. (1191 Eggs with Melted Cheese. (CEufs au beurre fondu.) Cut two ounces of Gruyere cheese into small pieces or slices, put these in a sauce- pan with half an ounce of butter and half a glass of chablis or sauterne wine; sea- son with salt, pepper,, and a pinch of krona seasoning. Stir over the fire till melted, then pour into a buttered fireproof dish. Break in carefully five or six fresh eggs (new laid if possible), season to taste, and put a tiny bit of butter on each. Put the dish carefully into a hot oven and bake till the eggs are set, then serve. (120) Egg in Shells. (CEufs en coquilles.) Butter eight small scallop shells, and besprinkle with finely chopped ham or bread-crumbs; put a table-spoonful of white sauce in each and place in slices of hard-boiled eggs; season with salt and pepper, and cover with finely chopped64 ham. Mask the top with white sauce, and sprinkle over bread-crumbs and grated cheese; also a few drops of oiled butter, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. / <121i) Eggs a la Lyonnaise. Get ready the following ingredients: — Five hard-boiled eggs, six preserved mushrooms,, one small onion, one tea- spoonful of flour, half an ounce anchovy paste, one ounce butter, half a gill of brown stock, one dessert-spoonful of Worcester sauce, toasted bread, pepper, and salt. Peel the eggs., take out the yolks whole, cut the white part into strips julienne fashion, cut the mushrooms in the same way, peel and slice the onion finely, melt half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, fry the onion a nice light brown, add the white of egg and mushroom, toss (shake) them for a few seconds over the fire, sprinkle them with flour,, and add the stock and Worcester sauce; season with pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer for about two minutes; place the yolks carefully on top, so as to get warm. Have ready some nice sippets of toast, spread them on one side with the anchovy paste, mixed with the remainder of the butter, put the white of egg, mushrooms, and onion upon them., arrange the yolks in the centre, pour the rest of the ragout round the yolks, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve.65 (122) K*. Eggs a la Soubise. Peel and slice three medium-sized onions, blanch and drain them, then cook in milk till tender, and pass through a fine sieve. Reduce this with sufficient white sauce (bechamel) to produce a puree of moderate consistency ; add lastly a tablespoonful of cream, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Poach carefully six new-laid eggs, drain and trim them., and place them on rounds of toast, previously spread thickly with the soubise or onion puree. Dish up and serve hot. (123) Devilled Eggs. (CEufs a la Diable.) Put half a gill of rich brown sauce into a stew-pan, or saute-pan, and add two table-spoonfuls of Holbrook’s Worcester sauce, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, half a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, a teaspoonful of curry or mulligatawny paste, a table-spoonful of sharp chutney, and a dessert-spoonful of chilli vinegar. Reduce this to about half its original quantity; season liberally with pepper., cayenne, or paprika, strain and return to the pan. Place in it six poached eggs, or the same quantity of hard-boiled eggs cut into thick slices, heat up carefully, then dish up, pour the sauce over the eggs, garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread,, and serve. (124) Eggs a la Princesse. Remove the shells from five hard-boiled eggs, and keep them hot in seasoned milk or white stock. Cut into dice half a cold E66 boiled or roast fowl, freed from skin and bones. Heat this up in half a gill of bechamel or other good white sauce, then add five or six table-spoonfuls of cooked asparagus points, previously drained ; sea- son to taste with salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg, and keep hot. Cut some slices of cooked ox-tongue into rounds the size of an egg, heat these up in a little stock or gravy. Now put the prepared puree (salpicon) on a round dish, range the rounds of tongue neatly on top, cut the eggs in halves and place one on each round of tongue. Chop the trimmings of the tongue finely and sprinkle this neatly over the eggs or around them. Serve hot. (125) Eggs au beurrc noir. Poach carefully six fresh eggs as direc- ted in No. 3. Drain and trim them neatly and place on a hot dish. Melt an ounce of butter in a frying-pan ; when hot and of a nut-brown colour add a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a heaped- up teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Pour this over the eggs, and serve. (126) Eggs with Nut-brown Butter. (CEufs au beurre noisette.) Melt half an ounce of butter in a fire- proof dish, break four to five eggs into it, place in a hot oven for about five minutes. Then pour over half an ounce of butter cooked to a nut-brown colour with a dash of tarragon or chilli vinegar. Sprinkle with a few fried bread-crumbs and send to table.67 (127) Egg Darioles. (Darioles d’ceufs.) Butter six to eight small dariole moulds, chop finely two small truffles, a slice of cooked ham, and a slice of cooked tongue. Mix these on a plate and besprinkle with it the inside of the moulds so as to com- pletely coat them. Break an egg into each and add the necessary seasoning of salt, pepper, and paprika; on top of each egg put a very small piece of butter. Next place the moulds in a saute or braising pan half filled with boiling water; cover the pan with its lid and poach in the oven for about six minutes, by which time the eggs should be set. Turn out the moulds on little rounds of toast; dish up and pour over sufficient brown sauce, demi- glace, or Madere to well coat the egg shapes. Serve hot. (128) Savoury Eggs and Tomatoes. Peel and slice six small ripe tomatoes; fry in a saute or stew-pan one minced shallot in one ounce of butter,, and add the tomatoes. Season with pepper and salt and cook for twenty minutes, then strain. Reheat it, and when boiling stir in three beaten eggs, add also one ounce of shredded ham or tongue; cook whilst stir- ring over the fire till the eggs begin to set. Then serve on a hot dish. (129) Egg Rarebit. Shell four hard-boiled eggs and slice them lengthways. Range them in a buttered gratin dish in layers with grated cheese and seasoning between the layers. E 268 Cover the top well with grated cheese, and place a few tiny bits of butter over the cheese. Brown in a hot oven and serve at once. (130|) Eggs civ cocottcs. Butter six or eight fireproof china cases or cocotte cups, put a table-spoonful of cream in each, then break in carefully a new-laid egg. Season with salt and pepper, and a tiny pinch of paprika or Krona pepper. Place the cups in a saute- pan containing a little water, cover with a buttered paper and cook the eggs in the oven till they are just set. Dish up and serve quickly. (131) V / Steamed Eggs a la Bechamel. (CEufs mollets a la Bechamel.) Boil six new-laid eggs in water for five minutes. Shell them and place them on fried croutons of bread or triscult; pour some rich bechamel sauce (No. 251) over them. Dish up carefully and serve. (13 2,) Egg Ragout a la Francaise. Slices of hard-boiled eggs, with sliced truffles and morels or mushrooms, stewed in brown sauce flavoured with red wine. (133) Eggs a la Madame. Take six to eight eggs, a little butter, one table-spoonful finely chopped parsley, six to eight dessert-spoonfuls of cream. Butter six to eight small fireproof pip- kin pans or ramakin cases, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Break an egg care- fully into each, and add a dessert-spoonful69 of cream. Bake slowly till set. Send to table in the pans or cases, or turn them out and dish up. (134) Eggs a la Boston. Take six eggs, one and a-half ounces of butter, half a large onion,, one teaspoon- ful of flour, one gill of milk or cream, two ounces chopped cooked ham, half a gill of Madere or other rich brown sauce. Peel and slice the onion and fry it in an ounce of butter to a golden colour, sprinkle in the flour., and stir long enough to cook the flour. Moisten with the milk or cream, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch each of pepper and nutmeg. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs and put the yolks with the onion,, etc., stir well and add one ounce of chopped ham. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the .above. Butter a round baking-tin or gratin-dish, dress the mixture neatly on it, sprinkle the top with chopped ham, bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes; when done, place it on a hot dish, and serve with Madere or other good brown sauce. (135) Egg Jumbles. Break four fresh eggs into a basin and whisk them lightly,, then add an ounce of finely chopped cooked ham or tongue and a good pinch of mixed savoury herbs, also a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley; then beat up the mixture and season with very little salt and pepper. Have ready three or four slices of toasted bread, cut them to size and butter them. Melt three- quarters of an ounce of butter in a sauce-70 pan, put in the egg mixture and stir it over the fire till just setting; then spread it on the prepared toast and serve hot. (136) Egg Tartlets. (Tartlettes aux ocufs.) Line eight to ten tartlet moulds with trimmings of puff-paste. Prick the paste with a fork, fill with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake in a moderate oven. Remove contents of tartlets and place crusts on sieve to cool. Next poach as many eggs as there are tartlet crusts, trim each egg very neatly as near as possible to the shape of the tartlets. Have ready some Hollandaise sauce, into this incorpor- ate a table-spoonful of spinach puree, some finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Place each egg into a tart- let crust, and sauce over carefully with the above sauce. Reheat in a sharp oven just a few moments. Dish up quickly and serve hot. A tiny pinch of paprika or Krona pepper seasoning put in the centre of the tartlets will improve the dish. (137) Caviare Eggs (Cold). (CEufs au caviar.) Cut three or four hard-boiled eggs into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Remove the yolk and place each ring of white of egg on a round of buttered toast about the size of the egg. Fill the cavity with Russian., Hygienic or Astrachan caviare forced through a bag with a plain tube. Dish up, and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley.71 (138) Mayonnaise of Eggs. Boil five fresh eggs till hard, shell them and cut each in half lengthways; remove the yolks and mix with a little mayonnaise sauce; season and refill the halves of eggs. Place them on a wire tray and coat them with mayonnaise sauce,, previously mixed with a little liquid aspic. When the eggs are well coated and set range them on a bed of seasoned salad (shredded lettuce or endive) on a dish. Decorate the top of each with tarragon leaves, small slices of chilli, and truffle, and serve. (139) Eggs a la Russe (Cold). Shell four hard-boiled eggs, and cut each in half lengthways: remove the yolk carefully and cut off a small portion of the whites to make them stand. Fill the cavities of the whites of egg with sea- soned caviare (Hygienic or Astrachan); rub some of the yolks through a coarse sieve and cover the filled eggs with it. Place each on a slice of ripe tomato,, pre- viously seasoned with salad oil, salt, pepper and vinegar. Dish up on a bed of small cress or other suitable green salad. (140) Stuffed Eggs a 1’ Aurore (Cold). Cut four hard-boiled eggs in halves crossways and remove the yolks carefully. Mix the latter with a teaspoonful of tarra- gon vinegar, a little mustard, a table- spoonful of fresh butter and a similar quantity of cream. When well mixed and seasoned rub this through a fine sieve. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a72 rose tube and fill with it the prepared halves and whites of eggs. Surmount each with a star-shaped slice of pimiento. Dish up and garnish the dish with sea- soned salad, lettuce, endive, cress., etc. 041) Eggs a la Rialto (Cold). Remove the shells from four hard-boiled eggs, half them and remove the yolks; put these in a mortar and pound with a quarter of a gill of picked shrimps, one teaspoonful of curry paste, and a table- spoonful of mayonnaise sauce. When quite fine rub the puree through a coarse sieve and make up into balls about the size of egg yolks. Cut some rings about half an inch high from the whites of eggs; place these on a wire tray and put one of the prepared balls in the centre of each. Have ready a mayonnaise sauce (No. 249) mixed with a little aspic, coloured with tomato and flavoured with curry paste and mustard. Coat the egg shapes with this twice or three times, until they are com- pletely covered, and keep the tray on the ice till required. Dress them neatly on a round dish on a bed of small cress (sea- soned), surrounded with very small lettuce hearts. Put a star-shaped slice of pimiento on the centre of each egg shape, and serve. < 14 21) Chaud^froid of Eggs (Cold). (CEufs en chaud-froid.) Take six or more new-laid eggs, one and a-half gills bechamel sauce (No. 251) half a gill of tomato sauce (No. 252), one gill of aspic jelly (No. 256), quarter of an73 ounce of leaf gelatine, one large truffle, slices of cooked ox-tongue or ham, salad and dressing. Poach the eggs carefully in slightly salted water, containing a little lemon juice; when set take up and trim and set them on a sieve to cool. Heat up the white sauce; add to it the gelatine, pre- viously dissolved and strained. Season to taste and mix with a couple of table- spoonfuls of aspic. When nearly cold mask half the number of poached eggs. This must be done twice, allowing the first coating to set before the second one is added. Now heat up the tomato sauce,, and mix in an equal quantity of white sauce and some aspic jelly; when nearly cold mask the remainder of eggs in the same manner. Cut out as many rounds of tongue or ham as there are eggs ; the slices should be as near as possible the size of the eggs. Place one egg on each slice, mask them over with a thin coating of aspic; decorate tastefully with fancifully cut slices of truffle. Dish up on a cold dish in the form of a border, fill the centre of the dish with a nicely prepared salad, and serve. (143) Stuffed Eggs a la Volga (Cold)- Boil sixsmall eggs till hard ; when cooled shell them, cut them in halves and carefully remove the yolks. Rub the latter through a sieve, and mix with a gill of remouladeor tartare sauce. Prepare a salpicon of a quarter jar of Russian caviare, three or four anchovy fillets cut into small dice, twelve prawn-tails cut into small dice. Add sufficient remoulade sauce to bind this mix- ture, and fill the cavities of eggs with74 this. Place each on oval-shaped croutons of bread fried in butter. Sauce over each carefully with remoulade sauce* dish up, and garnish neatly with prawns and cresses or parsley. Serve as hors-d’oeuvre or side dish. When a large quantity of eggs dressed in this style is needed it is advisable to incorporate a sheet of dis- solved gelatine into each gill of remou- lade or tartare sauce. (144) Eggs a la Gagnor (Cold). Shell five hard-boiled eggs, cut them in halves crossways, cut a small piece off the end of each to make them stand, re- move the yolks and fill the cavities with Russian caviare. Pound the yolks and mix with an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper, rub it through a sieve, and put it in a forcing bag with a fancy tube. Decorate each half of egg tastefully with the butter, etc.* place them on small croutons of fried bread, fixed on with a little of the puree. Dish up, and garnish with fancifully cut slices of lemon and parsley. (145) Eggs a la Courtet (Cold). Cut some even-sized ripe tomatoes in halves, scoop out the interior carefully, and fill with scrambled egg, nicely sea- soned. When cold, mask carefully with a stiff mayonnaise and a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish up in a circle and garnish with slices of gherkins and pickled beetroot cut into fanciful shapes; fill the centre of the dish with lettuce and tomatoes cut into julienne strips, suitably seasoned with an oil and vinegar or mayonnaise dressing. Serve cold.75 (146) Eggs a la Loubet (Cold). Cut the edges of a number of preserved artichoke bottoms as for fancy border, mask them over with some dissolved meat glaze into which a little aspic jelly has been introduced. Put a little cooked chicken cream at the bottom of each fond, cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, cut off the points evenly, place one half on each artichoke, and put a small slice of truffle on top. Mask the whole with aspic jelly, set to cool, and serve. 047) Egg Sandwiches. Chop finely two hard-boiled eggs, pre- viously shelled; mix with it half a tea- spoonful of mustard, half an ounce of fresh butter,, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Have ready some thin slices of brown or white bread, thinly buttered, spread the mixture on the buttered side of half the slices. Scatter over some chopped watercress or small cress, and cover with the other slices of bread, and so sandwdeh them together. Press them lightly, trim off the crusts and cut into desired shapes. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress, and serve. (148) Egg Sandwiches (another way). Cut some thin slices of brown bread, and butter them lightlyj cover half with thinly cut slices of hard-boiled egg; sea- son with salt and pepper and lay over a little mustard and cress, shredded lettuce, or slices of cucumber. Make up into sand- wiches,, trim them and cut them to the re- quired size. Dish up and garnish with parsley or watercress.76 (149) Egg Salad. (Salade aux ceufs.) Shell four or five hard-boiled eggs and cut them into slices. Range them in layers in a salad bowl or glass dish, sea- son each layer with salad dressing or mayonnaise (No. 249) and chopped parsley. Cover with a thin layer of mayonnaise, and garnish with stoned olives, anchovy fillets, tiny bunches of watercress or lettuce hearts and serve. ABBREVI3TED RECIPES FOR OTHER EGG DISHES. (150) Eggs a 1’ Eugenic. These are composed of small peeled cup mushrooms, scooped out, tossed in butter, and filled with a mixture of smoked finely shredded salmon, truffles, and foie-gras heated up in Hollandaise sauce. Place a poached egg on top of each, decorate with lobster coral and truffle; reheat and serve. (151 ) Eggs a la Florentine. These arepoached eggs placed into small baked paste croustades lined with spinach puree, sauced over with Mornay sauce, and browned in a sharp oven or under the salamander. (152) V. Eggs a la Cosmopolite. Poach six small fresh eggs and trim and drain them carefully. Egg and crumb and fry them in olive oil or clarified butter. Insert a slice of truffle in centre of each; and serve with demi-glace sauce.77 (153) Eggs a la St. Germain (Cold). Shell four hard-boiled eggs; cut in halves and remove the yolks ; rub through a sieve and mix with mayonnaise and chopped shrimps ; refill the eggs and dress them on a bed of chopped aspic, with a bearded oyster on top of each egg. (154) Eggs en banquettes. Line some little oval tartlet moulds with nouille paste crust (No. 248), bake them and fill with chopped hard-boiled egg, mushrooms, parsley, grated cheese, mixed with white sauce. Bake for ten minutes in a sharp oven, and serve. <155 ) Eggs a la Belloy (Cold). These are hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, yolks removed, and whites filled with a salpicon composed of chopped truffle and lobster, and stiff mayonnaise. Dish up on croutons of fried bread, and garnish with creamed anchovy butter. (156) Eggs a la Gourmet. These are halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with crayfish tails, chopped truffles, and smoked salmon, mixed with rich anchovy sauce, and baked for a few minutes. (157) Eggs a la Grand Due. Scramble four fresh eggs., range neatly on small croutons of fried bread, sauce over with rich bechamel mixed with re- duced tomato pulp, garnish with asparagus tips and shredded truffles, and serve hot.78 058) Eggs a la Granville. Shred coarsely four hard-boiled eggs; heat up in a little brown onion sauce, flavoured with finely chopped gherkins and lemon rind ; serve hot. (159) Eggs a la Hussard. This consists of rounds of fried bread spread over on one side with pounded ham and mushrooms, with a slice of tomato on top. Place a poached egg on top of each, sauce over with hollandaise, and serve hot. (160) Eggs a la Mairc. These are poached eggs trimmed and dressed on rounds of toast, garnished with finely shredded ox-tongue, ham, and truffles ; sauced over with Madere sauce. (161) Eggs a la Montpcnsier. Poach five or six new-laid eggs, trim and dress them on fried bread croutons previously spead with foie-gras puree, gar- nish the centre of dish with green peas and truffles. (162) Eggs a la Neige. Whisk four whites of eggs to a stiff froth, season with salt and pepper, and steam in small buttered moulds. Serve with hot cream sauce. (163) Eggs a la Norfolk. These are halves of hard-boiled eggs, egged, crumbed, fried in butter, and served with piquant sauce.79 OMELETS. To be able to make an omelet to per- fection is said to be an art, and which many admit is better mastered on the Con- tinent than in England. Considering that omelets are classed as highly nourishing, appetising, and quickly made dishes, few things should appeal more strongly to the cook and housewife to master thoroughly than omelets. That essential care and delicacy of manipulation so important to produce a perfect omelet can be mastered by anyone, if he or she will take sufficient pains to read up carefully the directions given and then set to work and practise the art of omelet making until the desired success is attained. “ Practice makes the master ” can be very forcibly applied here. After two or three trials anyone should be able to produce an excellent omelet. There are, of course, many kinds and varieties of omelets—the plain, souffle, stuffed or fouree, savoury vegetable, and the sweet omelets ; but any omelet should as soon as it is cooked be immediately served, for if allowed to stand about before serving, it will inevitably eat tough, instead of crisp and yet moist. The addition of a very small quantity of milk or cream, that is, about a table-spoon- ful of either to four or five eggs, will ensure the omelet keeping moist longer than is the case when neither is added. The added cream certainly increases the richness of an omelet. Some connoisseurs, however, claim that this addition rather destroys the character of a true French omelet; this had therefore better be left an open or disputed question. The actual process of making a French omelet, plain,, savoury or sweet, as one8o reads the directions seems difficult to some, but it is infinitely easier than it reads, and if one knows how to make one “omelette,” it is an easy matter to intro- duce varieties ad infinitum, because by the addition of certain suitable materials stirred in with the egg mixture before frying, or filling them with either savoury or sweet mixtures,, purees, ragouts, salpi- cons, etc., the name and character of an omelet is at once altered,, whereby a great many varieties can be introduced. The actual cooking of an omelet has, as the following rules will show, a great deal, if not all, to do with its success. The pan used and the fire required are likewise important factors. (164) Rules for Omelet Making. There are five rules which must be strictly observed in order to produce a successful omelet. ls^.—Eggs and Butter. The eggs and butter, being the chief ingredients for an omelet, must be as fresh as possible. 2nd.—The Omelet Pan. The omelet pan must be kept clean and not used for any other purpose. It must never be washed, but is best cleaned by heating it and rubbing it with paper or a coarse towel and salt, and then wiping it with a clean cloth. 3rd.—Mixing and Seasoning. Beat up the eggs thoroughly with a fork, not a whisk. The eggs need not be frothy, but mixed so as to amalgamate the yolks with the whites. It is well to add a little milk or cream at the time of beating up the eggs ; this makes the omelet8i moister and lighter. Season moderately. Do not use pungent spices. 4th.—Heating the Butter. See that the butter used is hot but not oily before the egg mixture is poured into the omelet pan. One ounce of butter is usually ample to make an omelet of six eggs. 5th.—Cooking the Omelet. An omelet must be cooked over a bright, brisk fire because it needs to be made quickly ; the process of stirring and shaking the pan whilst the omelet is made must also be quickly performed. Use a spoon in preference to a fork for stirring. (165) How to shape an Omelet. Once the egg mixture begins to set, that is when the eggs appear sufficiently cooked, which means light and yet moist or soft, shape it by folding in the ends, so as to give it the form of an oval cushion. This must be done nearest the side of the handle. Shake or knock the pan gently, so as to loosen the omelet. Let it take colour, viz.: a golden brown. (166) How to turn out an Omelet. To do this correctly and successfully, hold the pan by its handle with the right hand, the palm of the hand being under- neath the handle. Hold an oblong warm dish in the left hand, bring the outer edge of the pan close to the centre of the dish, turn out the omelet by turning the pan upside down, and then quickly remove the pan. The process of making a plain omelet should not take more than five minutes. F82 (167) Plain Omelet. {Omelette naturelle.) Take four or five eggs, one ounce of but- ter, one table-spoonful of milk or cream, pepper and salt. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well with a fork, add if liked, a table-spoonful of milk, or cream, and season with salt and a tiny pinch of pepper. Dissolve the butter in an omelet pan ; when quite hot pour in the mixture, stir slowly with a fork over a quick fire, shake the pan, when set shape the omelet on one side of the pan, allow it to take colour, then turn quickly on a hot dish, and serve. (168) Omelet with Shallot Flavour. {Omelette d l’Echalotte.) Fry two or three finely chopped shaUots in a little butter, when of a pale brown colour {not dark) pour in the beaten and seasoned eggs and proceed the same as for plain omelet. (169) English Omelet. {Omelette a VAnglaise.) Prepare an omelet as above adding two thin slices of streaky bacon cut in strips and fried in butter to the egg mixture, or else garnishing the omelet when made with thin slices of fried or grilled bacon. (170) Savoury Omelet. {Omelette aux fines herbes.) Take four or five eggs, one table-spoon- ful cream, two dessert-spoonfuls chopped parsley, including a leaf or two of green tarragon, and a sprig of chervil, a pinch of sweet herbs, one ounce of butter, a small clove of garlic, pepper and salt.83 Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, and beat up well; add the chopped herbs and seasoning. Cut the clove of garlic and wipe the inside of the omelet pan with the cut side. Melt the butter in this pan, and when hot pour in the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire with a fork until the eggs begin to set, then roll towards the side of the pan opposite the handle, and give it the shape of an oval cushion. iVllow it to take colour (a golden brown). Turn out on an oval dish (hot), and serve. Tarragon and sweet herbs, or the flavour of garlic, may be omitted. A small chopped shallot may be added to the butter and fried a little, if liked. Omelette a XL- Femme. Take six eggs, one ounce bacon, a boiled potato, a breakfast roll, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, half teaspoonful chopped chives, salt and pepper. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up for five minutes ; add the parsley and chives, also a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Cut the bacon into small squares, likewise the thin crust of the roll; melt the butter in a frying or omelet pan, fry the bacon slightly brown, then add the bread-crust and the potato cut into dice, toss over the fire for a few minutes, pour in the egg mixture, stir with a fork gently over a bright fire for two minutes. Then fold up in the shape of a cushion, towards the side opposite to the handle of the pan, hold it in a slanting position for a minute also over the fire to colour it lightly ; take a hot dish in your left hand, holding up the pan with your right, bring the centre of the dish F 284 towards the edge of the pan with the omelet, and then turn the pan over quickly so that the omelet will come right in the centre of the dish. Serve hot with two or three table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce poured round the dish. (172) Omelette a la Charentiere. Beat up six eggs in a basin, add the necessary seasoning (pepper, salt and nut- meg), a table-spoonful of milk or cream, and a heaped-up teaspoonful of French mustard. Cut two or three ounces of lean bacon into small dice, and fry in an omelet pan with an ounce of butter for a few minutes. Add two finely minced shallots and fry likewise, but do not allow them to get quite brown. Pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a brisk fire til] it commences to set, then shape quickly into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to take colour, and turn out on a hot dish. (173 ) Omelette a la Bernoise. Proceed as above, omitting the bacon and adding about two ounces of Gruyere cheese, cut into small dice. Fry the shal- lots in an ounce and a half of butter, pour in the mixture with the cheese, and finish cooking in the usual manner. (174) Omelette a la Raphael. Make a savoury omelet with six eggs, and place in the centre a fine stew of fillet of beef (goulash de boeuf) and truffles ; then fold the omelet. When browned slightly, turn on to a hot dish, and pour some demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish. Serve quickly.35 <175) Leek Omelet. {Omelette aux Poireaux.) Take six eggs, one and a half ounces of butter, one table-spoonful grated cheese, salt and cayenne, one table-spoonful of milk or cream, two leeks, well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream ; beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stewpan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet pan ; when thoroughly warm (not too hot) pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly. <178) Omelettes a la Marechale. Take eight eggs, eight slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, quarter gill of cream, one and a half ounce of butter, salt, pepper, Colbert sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add parsley, pepper, salt, and beat up well, add the cream and mix thoroughly. Divide into eight equal portions ; melt a little of the butter, and prepare a very small omelet with each portion of the mixture ; place it on the slice of tongue, trimmed to re- quired size, and proceed thus until the86 eight omelets are made. Dish up on a hot dish in the shape of a border (en couronne), pour Colbert sauce round the dish, and serve. (179) Parmesan Omelets. (Omelettes gratinees au Parmesan.) Take six eggs, one large table-spoonful cream, two table-spoonfuls grated Par- mesan, one and a half ounce of butter, white pepper, a few brown crumbs, tomato sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add rather more than half of the grated cheese and a pinch of pepper (no salt), mix well with a fork, add the cream, and beat well. Melt half the butter in an omelet pan, pour in half the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire until the eggs begin to set (it requires generally three minutes to stir), then fold into a cushion shape, let it cook for one minute to take colour ; turn on to a hot dish. With the other half of the mixture and butter prepare a second omelet, and put it along with the first. Trim the omelets neatly, sprinkle over with a few bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan, also a few drops of oiled butter, put the dish in a sharp oven or under a hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve with nicely- seasoned hot tomato sauce poured round the omelets. (180) Lentil Omelet. [Omelette aux Lentilles.) Cook half a gill of lentils in stock or salted water till tender and drain them. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, fry in it a peeled, minced shallot, put in the87 lentils, and fry for a few minutes. Moisten with two or three table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, season with pepper and salt, and keep hot. Break six eggs into a basin, beat up well with two table-spoonfuls of milk or cream, season with salt and pepper, and pour into an omelet pan containing about an ounce of butter (hot). Stir over the fire with a fork till the mixture begins to set. Spread the cooked lentils over the omelet and fold in the sides. Let it take colour, a nice golden brown, and turn out carefully into a hot dish. A little tomato sauce may be poured round the base of the dish if liked. (181) Kidney Omelet. {Omelette aux Rognons.) Skin two sheep’s or half a small veal kidney, cut it into thin slices, season, and fry with one ounce of butter blended with a very small chopped shallot ; add a little brown sauce, and keep hot. Beat five eggs together with two table-spoonfuls of milk ; season with salt and pepper. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan, pour in the omelet mixture, and stir it over the fire until it begins to set ; then put in the stewed kidneys and fold in the ends of the omelet over. When nicely browned, slip the omelet on to a hot dish, pour a little hot tomato or brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve at once. (182) Mushroom Omelet. {Omelette aux Champignons.) Wash and peel three or four freshfeup mushrooms, chop them and fry in half an ounce of butter, blended with a small88 chopped shallot. Season with salt and pepper to taste, and keep hot. Prepare a plain omelet, when ready to fold put the mushroom puree in the centre, then fold in the ends and allow the omelet to take colour. Turn it out on to a hot dish and serve. (183) Asparagus Omelet. {Omelette aux Asperges.) Cut into inch or half-inch lengths the soft portion of twenty-five to thirty heads of cleaned asparagus ; blanch them and cook in salted water till tender. When done, drain them on a sieve, then toss them in a little butter, add a little stock or white sauce, season with pepper and keep hot. Beat up five or six eggs, add a table- spoonful of milk or cream, salt and pepper to taste and pour into an omelet pan containing about an ounce of butter (melted). Stir over the fire till the eggs begin to set; shape to an oval cushion, placing the prepared asparagus in the centre, fold in the ends of the omelet, let it take colour, and turn out carefully on to a hot dish. (184) Cheese Omelet. {Omelette au Fromage.) Beat up six eggs, with one ounce of grated Gruyere cheese and two table- spoonfuls of milk. Melt one ounce of but- ter in an omelet pan and cook the omelet as directed for plain omelet. Sprinkle over the surface of the omelet with a little grated cheese.89 (185) Tomato Omelet. {Omelette aux Tomates.) Steep two or three small ripe tomatoes in hot water and skin them,] cut them into slices and toss them in a little butter over a quick fire, season well and fill with it a plain or savoury omelet. Pour a little tomato sauce round the base of the dish. (186) Truffle Omelet. (Omelette aux Truffes.) Proceed the same as for mushroom omelet, using six truffles in place of the mushrooms. (187) Omelets a la Maintenon. Get ready the following ingredients: — Six eggs, three table-spoonfuls grated Parmesan cheese,, toasted bread, one table- spoonful of cream, pepper., one and a-half ounces of butter, about half a gill of tomato sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up well with a table-spoonful of grated Par- mesan cheese, and the cream, add a pinch of pepper j divide this into four equal parts; melt a little butter in an omelet pan; pour in one part and make into a small omelet, taking care that the omelet is of a nice cushion shape. Proceed thus until four omelets are made; roll each in Parmesan cheese, put them on an oval shape of buttered toast. Sprinkle the sur- face with more Parmesan, put them on a baking sheet and place in a hot oven for five minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, pour over the hot tomato sauce, and serve.9o (188) x r Omelette a la Bearnaise. Prepare a plain omelet, fill it before folding in the sides with a mixture of artichoke bottoms and mushrooms, cut into dice and heated up in tomato and Bearnaise sauce. Pour a little sauce round the base of the dish. (189) Omelette a la Bayonne. Prepare a plain omelet, fill it before folding in the sides with cooked ham and Spanish pimientos cut in strips and heated up in tomato sauce. Pour a little of the latter round the omelet. (190) Brain Omelet. {Omelette a la Cervelle.) Prepare and cook a plain omelet filled with cooked calf’s brains, cut in small pieces and previously stewed in seasoned white sauce. (191) Cucumber Omelet. [Omelette aux Concombres.) Peel half a cucumber, cut it in halves lengthways, scoop out the seedy part, cut up into slices, stew in cream sauce. Fill with it a plain omelet. (192 ) Spinach Omelet. [Omelette aux Epinards.) Rub half a pound of cooked spinach through a fine sieve, heat it up with a little bechamel or brown sauce, season to taste, and fill into the centre of a plain omelet. Pour a little gravy or thin brown sauce round the omelet.91 (193) Anchovy Omelet. (Omelette aux Anchois.) Prepare a plain omelet by adding one teaspoonful of anchovy essence and three filleted Gorgona anchovies, cut into small strips or dice, to the egg mixture and cook as directed. (19 4) Sardine Omelet. (Omelette aux Sardines.) Proceed the same as for anchovy omelet using four boned and skinned sardines in place of the anchovies, but allowing the anchovy essence to be incorporated. (195) Curry Omelet. (Omelette a V Indienne.) Peel and mince finely half a small Span- ish onion, fry it a light brown colour in one ounce of butter, add a dessert-spoonful of curry powder and one table-spoonful of bechamel sauce. Cook for ten minutes, remove the fat, if any, fill this into a plain omelet. Turn the omelet on a bed of boiled rice dressed on a hot dish and sur- round with curry sauce. (196) Lobster Omelet. (Omelette de Homard.) Prepare a plain omelet, fill it, before fold- ing in the sides with creamed lobster, or with minced lobster warmed up in becha- JL mel sauce. (197) Onion Omelet. (Omelette aux Oignons.) Proceed the same as for curry omelet, omitting the curry and rice, the onion can be cooked in white or brown sauce.92 (198) Oyster Omelet. (Omelette anx Huitres.) Blanch one dozen oysters in their own liquor, drain them and remove the beards (preserve the liquor), and cut into small dice, beat up six eggs with one table-spoon- ful of milk and a table-spoonful of oyster liquor, season to taste with salt and pepper; add the oysters. Melt an ounce of butter in a chafing dish, pour in the egg mixture and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set. Fold over and shape neatly (oval cushion shape), allow the omelet to take colour and serve. (199) Salmon Omelet. (Omelette de Saumon.) Free four ounces of cooked salmon from skin and bones and flake it finely, heat it up in a little butter and white sauce, just enough to moisten. Season with salt and pepper and keep hot. Make an omelet as above directed, omitting the oysters and the oyster liquor. When ready to fold, put in the hot salmon mixture, fold in the ends and shape neatly. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. (200) Ham Omelet. (Omelette au Jambon.) Beat up four fresh eggs and season to taste with pepper and paprika or Krona seasoning, but no salt. Chop or cut into small dice two ounces of cooked ham and fry a little in an ounce of butter in an omelet pan, then pour in the eggs and finish cooking as before directed for a plain or savoury omelet.93 (201) Vienna Tomato Omelet. {Omelette a la Viennoise.) Whisk up four to six fresh eggs in a basin, season with salt and pepper and pour the eggs into a well buttered fire-proof souffle dish. Bake in a fairly hot oven till the omelet is set and of a nice golden brown. Make an incision in the centre of the omelet and fill the cavity with a tomato stew which is made as follows :— Peel three or four small ripe tomatoes, this is best done by dipping each into hot water for a few seconds, then cut them into quarters and toss in a little butter over a quick fire. Season with salt and pepper and use as directed. This omelet should be served in the dish or pan in which it is baked. ( 202 ) American Omelet. (Omelette a VAmericaine.) Beat up five eggs, add a table-spoonful of cream, half a teacupful of grated bread- crumbs, a few drops of onion juice, a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and season with salt and pepper. Stir this over the fire, in an omelet pan containing an ounce of heated butter. When sufficiently cooked shape it, allow it to set, and colour, then turn out on a hot dish and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR COMPOUND OMELETS. ( 203 ) Omelette a la Madras. Prepare a plain omelet, flavoured with chutney or curry ; when ready for folding- fill with cooked rice, seasoned with a little94 finely chopped mint and chives. Pour a little curry sauce round the omelet and serve hot. * Omelette a l’ltalienne. This is a plain omelet, stuffed with a salpicon of chicken liver., ham, and mush- rooms previously tossed in butter; serve with tomato sauce. ( 204 ) Omelette a la Jardiniere. Prepare a plain or savoury omelet, fill it with mixed cooked vegetables (macedoine or jardiniere), previously heated up in a little white sauce or butter, and seasoned. Turn out and serve hot. (205) Omelette Parisienne. Plain souffle omelet, filled with hot duxelle puree (chopped mushrooms, shallots, parsley, etc.)., and folded. ( 206 ) Omelette a la Parmentier. This is a plain or savoury omelet, stuffed with dice-shaped potatoes, previously blanched, and fried in butter. (207) Omelette a la Paysanne. This is a savoury omelet, containing chopped and blanched sorrel; before fold- ing- it is stuffed with braised lettuce and is served with demi-glace sauce. (208) Omelette a la Perigord. This is a plain omelet, mixed with chopped truffles and served with truffle or Perigueux sauce.95 ( 209 ) Omelette a la Portugaise. This is a savoury omelet, mixed with chopped anchovy fillets. Serve with tomato sauce round the base of the dish. (210) Omelette a la Princesse. This is a plain omelet mixed with cooked asparagus points, or filled with asparagus puree just before folding the omelet. (211 ) Omelette a la Reine. This is a savoury souffle omelet, filled with chicken puree or salpicon of chicken. Allemande or supreme sauce is poured round the omelet. (212 ) Omelette a la Reforme. This is a plain omelet filled with shredded truffle., hard-boiled white of egg, gherkins and mushrooms ; heated in rich brown sauce. (213) Savoury Puff Omelet. [Omelette soufflee aux fines herbes.) Beat very lightly the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three ; stir into this one table-spoonful of Brown and Poison’s cornflour, mixed with half a gill of cream or milk, season with salt and pepper, and stir in one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small soufflee or omelet pan, pour in the mixture, and set the pan into a hot oven. When it thickens pour over the remaining whites of eggs, well beaten, with a pinch of salt, and return to oven until a delicate brown. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve at once.96 (214) Fish Puff Omelet. {Omelette soufflee au poisson.) Shred finely one small cooked whiting or a slice of cooked cod, heat it up in a little butter and season to taste. Stir this into a mixture made as directed in the preceding recipe, and bake ’"in a well buttered pan in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes, and turn out on to a hot dish and serve with tomato sauce. (215) SWEET OMELETS. Of these there are several kinds, the plain, sucree, those filled with a fruit com- pote or puree, preserved, or conserve fruit, and the puff or soufflee omelettes. It is usual to call these omelets accord- ing to the kind of garniture used in their preparation. (216) Rum Omelet. {Omelette au Rhum.) Beat up four eggs with a table-spoonful of cream, a tiny pinch of salt and a tea- spoonful of castor sugar. Melt about three- quarters of an ounce of butter in an omelet pan, when hot pour in the mixture and cook whilst stirring, until it will not run in the pan or till it begins to set, then roll carefully and turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle freely with powdered sugar, pour round the sides half a glass of rum, set it on fire and with a spoon pour the burning liquid over the omelet as long as it will blaze, then serve.97 <217) Kirsch Omelet. {Omelette au Kirsch.) Proceed the same as for rum omelet, but use Kirschwasser in place of the rum. <218) Ginger Omelet. {Omelette au gingembre.) Beat up four eggs, add half ounce of castor sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a grating of nutmeg. Turn into an omelet pan, containing three-quarters of an ounce of butter. Stir over a quick fire till it sets, then shape and let the omelet take colour. Have ready a table- spoonful of chopped preserved ginger mixed with two table-spoonfuls of syrup and a table-spoonful of cream; put in the centre of the omelet, roll, turn out on a heated dish, then pour a little ginger syrup round the base of the omelet and serve hot. <219) Sweet Omelet. {Omelette sucree.) Beat up five fresh eggs, add a tiny pinch of salt and a table-spoonful of castor sugar. Melt in an omelet pan three- quarters of an ounce of fresh butter, when hot pour in the beaten eggs and stir over a quick fire till they commence to thicken and set; then shape quickly into an oval cushion-like form by folding in the ends. Allow the omelet to acquire a golden brown colour, turn out on to a hot dish, dredge over with castor or icing sugar and brown under a salamander or mark with a red- hot, skewer. G98 ( 220 ) Jam Omelet. {Omelette au confiture.) Proceed the same as for sweet omelet as directed in the foregoing recipe ; just before folding in the sides of the omelet, put in two table-spoonfuls of fruit jam, pre- viously heated ; then roll it into shape and turn out on a hot dish. Dredge with sugar and brown under a salamander. (221) Omelet with Jelly. {Omelette a la gelee.) Prepare a sweet omelet and have ready some red currant jelly just heated up. Before beginning to roll the omelet into shape, spread it with the jelly, then shape as directed. Dish up, sprinkle over with castor sugar, and mark the top with a red- hot skewer like lattice work. Pour a little jelly at the base of the omelet and serve. ( 222 ) Marmalade Omelet. Proceed the same as directed in the preceding recipe, using apricot or orange marmalade in place of red currant jelly. ( 223 ) Peach Omelet. {Omelette aux peches.) Cut six preserved peaches into quarters or dice shape, and heat up in a little syrup, flavoured with a dessert-spoonful of mara- schino or Kirsch. Meanwhile make a sweet omelet, as directed in No. 219, adding a table-spoonful of cream before beating the eggs. Prior to folding or rolling the omelet, put in the prepared peaches, then shape and turn on to a hot dish. Dredge with sugar, glaze, and serve.99 ( 224 ) Omelette Mousseline. Separate the yolks from four fresh eggs, stir them in a basin adding a good pinch of salt and incorporate by degrees half a gill of rich cream. Season with white pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and add this carefully with the above. Melt an ounce of fresh butter in an omelet pan, when hot pour in the egg mix- ture and stir with a small whisk over a bright fire till the butter is absorbed and the eggs begin to set. Shape it nicely by folding in the ends, and let the omelet acquire a golden colour. Turn it out on a hot dish, and send to table. (225) Puffed or Souffle Omelet. {Omelette soufflee.) Separate the yolks from six eggs and cream them with three ounces of castor sugar ; then add a dessert-spoonful of Brown and Poison’s cornflour, half a tea- spoonful of Vanilla essence. Whisk till quite firm the whites of four eggs, adding a pinch of salt before beginning to whisk, and incorporate the froth to the above mixture. The object of whisking the whites, as well as the creaming of the yolks of eggs, is of vital importance, for when properly done the mixture will rise to perfection whilst it is cooked. Have ready a buttered gratin or souffle dish, either in fireproof china or silver- plated. Pour in half the mixture and spread a little strawberry, apricot or raspberry jam in the centre. Spread the remainder of the mixture on top, smooth G 2IOO over with the blade of a knife, dredge with castor or icing sugar and make a few incisions with the point of a knife, so as to form a pretty design. Bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Place the dish on a folded nap- kin or lace paper, and send to table im- mediately. < 226 ) Omelette en Surprise. Prepare a pint of rich vanilla cream ice, and get ready an omelet souffle mixture as directed in the preceding recipe. Cut out a border shape of Genoese pastry, be- sprinkle it with a little fruit syrup, and place it on a round or oval dish (fixed with white of egg or batter). Put the ice in the cen- tre of the dish and spread over the omelet mixture as quickly as possible so as to cover the ice completely, shape neatly with the blade of a pallet knife, dredge with castor sugar and bake in a quick oven just long enough to brown the top, then send to table quickly. The success of this omelet depends on the speed of manipulation, baking and serving. If liked, a little brandy, rum or Kirsch may be poured round the base of the dish, which must be lighted just before serving, the effect, if properly carried out, is quite a surprise. (227) Frosted Omelet. (Omelette meringuee.) Whisk the white of an egg to a stiff froth and sweeten with half an ounce of vanilla sugar. Prepare a jam omelet as directed in No. 220. As soon as it is dished up, cover the top with the whiskedIOI whites of egg, spread it over smoothly and dredge with sugar, then bake in a quick oven or brown under a salamander, and serve. ( 228 ) Friar’s Omelet. Peel, core and slice four sour cooking apples, cook them with a little sugar to a pulp, flavour with half a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and stir in half an ounce of fresh butter. Beat up five fresh eggs,whisk the whites, add to it respectively the apple puree and two table-spoonfuls of brown bread-crumbs. Butter a fireproof baking or souffle dish, pour in the mixture. Dredge the top with castor sugar and bake in moderately heated oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve in the dish in which the omelet is cooked. ( 229 ) Orange Puff Omelet. (Omelette soufflee a Vorange.) Separate the yolks from three eggs and cream them with an ounce of castor sugar, add the juice of an orange and the stiffly whisked whites of three eggs, to which a pinch of salt should be added. Melt three- quarters of an ounce of butter in an omelet pan, when hot pour in the egg mixture, and allow to cook whilst stirring for two or three minutes, then let it take colour and by means of a pallet knife carefully turn it over so as to brown the other side. Slit the omelet in the centre and insert two tablespoonfuls of orange compote, that is slices of orange stewed in syrup, or failing this use orange marmalade. Fold over carefully, dredge with sugar and serve.102 < 230) Fried Egg Croutes (Sweet). (Pain perdu.) Cut some milk rolls into neat slices, dip each in sweetened milk, and then in beaten egg. Drop the slices into hot clarified butter, and fry a golden brown. Take up, drain the slices or croutes, dredge with castor sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon, then dish up and serve hot. (231) Snow Eggs a la Vanille. Put a pint of milk, a gill of cream, and two ounces of loaf sugar and vanilla pod in a saute-pan and boil up. Whisk the whites of four fresh eggs to a stiff froth and sweeten slightly. When the milk, cream, etc., is boiling drop into it the whites of egg, previously shaped with a tablespoon (the shape of quenelles); dip the spoon into boiling water each time it is used, and poach only a few at a time. Turn the shapes as they are being poached. Each quenelle will take from three to four minutes to cook. When done take up and drain, range them nicely in a hot dish. Pour a little custard over and round the quenelles, and serve. Use vanilla pod if possible, as it gives a better flavour than the essence. ( 232 ) Snow Eggs au Citron. Proceed the same as directed in the fore- going recipe, omit the vanilla and add a thin strip of lemon rind to the milk. Chop or grate the rind of half a lemon and mix with the whisked whites of eggs. Shape and poach in sweetened milk as directed.103 FOR INVALIDS AND CON- VALESCENTS. < 233 > Egg Bouillon. Put two yolks of eggs into a small basin, beat up a little,, add a tiny grate of nutmeg and pour in slowly £ pint of boil- ing hot seasoned beef stock or broth. Serve it in cups and scatter a little chopped parsley or chopped chives on top. <234) Savoury Egg Custard. Mix two table-spoonfuls of Lemco with half a gill of hot water, beat up four yolks of eggs and add to the above. Boil up a gill of milk and stir it with the eggs, etc. Season with pepper and salt, and strain into a buttered mould or basin. Place this in a stew-pan containing a little hot water, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. When done turn out on a hot dish or plate and serve. <235) Egg Jelly (Sweet). Put an ounce of gelatine in a stew- pan with the juice of two lemons and about half a pint of water (to make one pint of liquid) ; to this add the finely cut rind of half a lemon and four ounces of loaf sugar. Stir over a slow fire and when the gelatine is dissolved add two eggs, well beaten,, allow it to get hot whilst stir- ring, but not boiling, then strain into a pint mould and place in the cool to set. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a few moments and turn out on a cold dish.104 ( 236 ) Frosted Egg. Beat up on a plate the white of a new- laid egg- till stiff; add to it a tiny pinch of salt before or after beating it, and flavour with a few drops of lemon juice. Pile it on a clean plate or saucer, dredge over with castor sugar, and serve. (237) Egg CoJfee. Beat up the yolk of an egg in a cup and pour in slowly two parts of boiling milk and one part of freshly-made coffee. Sweeten to taste or serve without sugar as desired. ( 238) Egg Tea. Cream the yolk of an egg with a dessert- spoonful of castor sugar and add to it the stiffly whisked white of an egg; pour on half a breakfast cupful of boiling milk and a little freshly made tea, just enough to flavour. Strain into a smaller cup, put a suspicion of grated nutmeg on top, and serve. (239 ) Egg Wine. Beat up a new-laid egg, add to it a dessert-spoonful of castor sugar and a small glass of sherry or marsala; then pour over slowly half a pint of boiling water. Stir over the fire to bind the egg but do not let it boil. Strain into a cup, and serve. ( 240 ) Steamed Eggs. This is considered the most digestible way of cooking eggs. Place the required number of new-laid eggs in a warm basin, large enough to hold the eggs and waterio5 to well cover them. Pour over boiling water (the usual proportion being one gill to each egg). Allow the basin to stand on the side of the stove or in the oven for six or eight minutes. They are then ready for serving. (241 ) Coddled Eggs. Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, eggs cooked in this way being frequently known as “ coddled.” ( 242 ) Egg Fillip. Beat up with a fork a new-laid egg, add to it a tablespoonful of brandy or rum, sweeten with one dessert-spoonful of castor sugar. Stir and serve in a small cup or glass. This makes an excellent stimulant and restorative drink. (243) Egg Nog (Cold). Whisk the white of a new-laid egg, when stiff add a table-spoonful of castor sugar. Mix the yolk with a table-spoonful of iced water and three of milk, flavour with a small glass of sherry or marsala. Pour this into a tumbler or cup, then add the whisked white of egg. Stir gently and serve. ( 244) Egg Nog (Hot). Boil up half a pint of milk,, and pour it, whilst stirring, into a beaten yolk of egg, and add a table-spoonful of castor sugar. Reheat, but do not let it boil; put in a table-spoonful of old brandy, rum, or whisky, and serve very hot.io6 (246) Egg Water. Stir lightly with a fork the whites of two new-laid eggs into half a pint of iced water. Sweeten to taste with castor sugar,, then serve. This is said to be an excellent remedy for diarrhoea, and is also good for children teething. (246) Egg Flip. Stir the yolk of a new-laid egg with a dessert-spoonful of castor sugar till creamy, add a table-spoonful of brandy or two of sherry. To this add two table- spoonfuls of boiling water, and lastly the whisked-up white of the egg. Serve in a cup or tumbler. SUNDRY RECIPES. (247) Egg SaUCC. aawtOr (Sauce aux oeufs.) Shell and chop not too finely one hard- boiled egg. Make a sauce by melting one and a-half ounces of butter in a sauce- pan, blend in it one ounce of flour and stir in half a pint of white stock and half a pint of hot milk; allow it to boil whilst stirring, and cook for about ten minutes. Strain the sauce, put in the chopped egg, and keep hot till required for serving. ( 248) Egg Nouilles. Sift half a pound of flour and add two yolks of eggs,, a pinch of salt, and a table- spoonful of oiled butter, and work into a stiff but smooth dough. After being well kneaded roll out the paste and cut it into six portions. Fold the rolled out pieces107 longways and cut crossways into narrow strips, loosen the strips and boil in salted water, dress and place in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, one ounce of grated Gruyere cheese, and two table-spoonfuls of 'bechamel sauce (No. 251), and season with pepper and grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, dish up, sprinkle the top with freshly fried bread-crumbs, and serve. (249) Mayonnaise Sauce. Put two yolks of eggs into a clean and dry basin,, add a heaped up saltspoonful of salt, and stir with a wooden spoon, adding little by little (drop by drop) one and a-half gills of best salad oil, and at inter- vals a tablespoonful of French vinegar (Orleans). Continue to stir vigorously till the mixture acquires a creamy substance, then add another table-spoonful of vine- gar, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, and lastly a few drops of chilli vinegar, and use as directed. (250) Hollandaise Sauce. Take two yolks of eggs,, half a gill of bechamel sauce, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of French wine vinegar, salt and pepper. Heat up the sauce in a small saucepan, stir in the yolks of eggs, stand the sauce- pan in a pan of boiling water over the fire and whisk until nearly boiling; add the butter in small quantities, also the vinegar. Season to taste, and whisk until the sauce has the consistency of a light cream. This sauce is excellent with boiled fish,, asparagus, cauliflower, artichokes, etc.io8 <261) Bechamel Sauce. Melt one ounce of butter in a small stew-pan, stir in one ounce of flour (bare weight), and cook for a few minutes with- out browning, then add half a sliced carrot, half a small onion stuck with a clove, half a bay leaf, and a small blade of mace, and dilute with one gill of good white stock and half a pint of milk. Stir till it boils and let simmer gently for about twenty minutes to half an hour. Strain the sauce and season to taste. <252) Tomato Sauce. Slice three or four small ripe tomatoes and fry them in a small stew-pan with two ounces of raw ham or bacon cut into dice and one ounce of butter. Next add a few slices of carrot, onion, and very little celery, a small bay-leaf and a blade of mace. Then add half a pint of brown sauce or bechamel., also a few mushroom trimmings if handy, and cook gently for twenty minutes or longer, adding a little stock, if found too thick. Reheat it, re- move the scum, strain the sauce, and sea- son to taste. <253) Brown Sauce. Take half a pint of brown stock, one small onion, one carrot,, one ripe tomato, one ounce of butter or dripping, one ounce of flour, one dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, one teaspoonful of vine- gar, salt and pepper. Peel and chop the onion, scrape and slice the carrot,, and slice the tomato. Melt the butter or dripping in a sauce- pan ; when hot add the flour and fry aiog little, then add the vegetables. Stir over the fire until nicely browned, then add the tomato, the vinegar, ketchup, and stock, stir until it boils,, skim well, and allow to simmer for about half an hour. Strain and season to taste. (254) Curry Sauce. Peel and slice a small onion, scrape and slice a small carrot, fry both together in half an ounce of butter; when the onion has acquired a light brown colour, add one table-spoonful of “ Empress ” curry powder and stir for a few seconds. Next add a small peeled and chopped apple, moisten with half a gill of tomato pulp and a gill of brown sauce. Allow to boil for a few minutes. Season to taste, and pass it through a fine strainer. Reheat and stir in last of all a finely chopped gherkin. (255) r Supreme Sauce. Melt an ounce and a-half of butter in a stew-pan ; stir in an ounce of flour and allow it to fry a little without browning. Add gradually a pint of chicken stock, stir until it boils, and allow to simmer for fifteen minutes. Add one gill of cream, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and cook gently. Pass through a tammy cloth, re- turn to a clean stew-pan, and whisk in half an ounce of fresh butter. (256) Aspic or Savoury Jelly. Get ready the following ingredients: — Two ounces of gelatine, one bay-leaf, half a leek, half a carrot sliced, a pint ofIIO white stock or water, ten peppercorns, one table-spoonful of French wine vinegar,, one table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, the thin rind and juice of half a lemon, and the white and shell of one egg. Put all the ingredients in a stew-pan, add a good pinch of salt and the white and shell, previously beaten, and whisk into the stew-pan; bring the contents slowly to the boil, whisking all the time, and boil slowly for five minutes; allow to stand for ten minutes and strain twice or three times through a cloth or jelly bag.Everything is Well Hade that is made with Brown * Poison's "Patent" Corn Flour. Soups and Gravies are more inviting, fish and vegetable Sauces are im- proved in flavour, Jellies, Custards, and Blancmanges are more tasty Had? with Brown % Poison’s “Patent” Com PIOUT Brown # Poison have been making good Corn Flour for nearly fifty years, that's why you can trust them on the point of quality. To Save Time When Baling use Brown $ Poison’s Powder “Paisley Flour” I (Trade /Aark)- Cakes, pastries, scones, bread, etc., can be quickly prepared by simple methods and with little trouble. The cakes come out of the oven beauti- fully light, the pastry is crisp and short. 1Popular Books on Cookery, &c. r By C. HERMAN SENN. _ ThP New Century Cockery Book. The New, Re- pToSuly ’'KsSted strongly bound in leather back. Ed,.ion de LUprac?ical Cookery Manual. Price i/-; post free, 1/2. A book of simple but practical recipes and instructions, Plain and Middle-class Cookery. 178 pages. Chafmc-dish and Uasserole Cookery. By C. Her- . r _/o a neatlv grot up little book pared IseW ieSpes ol U%, and distinct directions for econonr,- CaCookervaVorb0InvalidseSand the Convalescent. Price, rs. • post free rs. * ?°“eiSs°and ddnL'fo^in- Sid"1 Sd'MSST tSVSSS. and other useful i.forma- tl0Qirvtnlp Pookerv for the People. Price 2d., post i^connectimi'wl&^he^lFopula^^oMcery'jp^onsf^orgaiiised^by thVheni M»n CC°ookyear"yd Book ."table book, which covers all depar.men.s of= Middle-das^ ‘SMS i^arrfcuiar'ly pracrica, for family COOABook'of SaiadP°s1 on'The Art of Salad Dressing By Alfred Suranne This little book uViable ^daFmF« lalSadsad Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully “Tcet and How to MakF f hem. Price ./6; post free 'akss&s. sr fiss-s-MS CCurVTedsDanndkHow t'o Prepare Them. Compiled by T idmundt; t?,h recipes by C. Franca,elli, C. Herman Senn and 0thPracS'GasiroPnSomye& French Menus; or The Complete Menu Compiler and R^egister^of AD^tsical fusely illustrated by means of 130 diagrams and a o p traits. — Any of the above-mentioned Works may be obtained from the— Food& Cookery Publishing Agency 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, ’ LONDON, S.W.