9 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. i1 tecting case to keep in its nourisliing juices, and this is formed by the hardening of its external portions. But this hardening process must not be carried to excess; cold water should be added, therefore, to reduce the temperature considerably below boiling point, and the meat be allowed to simmer gently until it is ready to serve. The practice of putting meat into cold water and gradually raising it to boiling point, must be severely condemned, (unless, of course', you are making soup1, and wish to extract all goodness from the meat. Meat loses about twenty-five per cent, of its weight in boiling. I may add, that when choosing meat for boiling, the following parts are best: briskets and rounds of beef, legs and neck of lamb and mutton. Turkey is more digestible boiled, and chops are often boiled for invalids, as they are lighter so cooked. The above rules are equally applicable to all vegetables, with the exception of old potatoes, which are put into cold or tepid water. Stewing.—A mode of preparing food more popular with our-neighbours on the other side of the Channel than ourselves, intermediate between flying and boiling, and perhaps the most wholesome of all ways. Care must be taken not to confound stewing with boiling, by adding too much liquor, or to burn the food by adding too little, so making your dish uneatable. The regulation quantity of water is one quart to the pound of meat, but this is obviously impracticable in cooking, say, five 01 six pounds, and in that case, sufficient water should be added to about half cover the meat. The stew can be thinned afterwards to the consistency desired. Frying is cooking in hot fat. There are two methods, saute?- (diy frying) and friter (wet frying).., In the former a small quantity of fat is used, just enough to cover the bottom of the frying pan, and it should be allowed to get thoroughly hot before the meat is put into it. The meat should5 be frequently turned, to prevent hardening before it is cooked through. Such things as cutlets, steak, omelets, bacon, etc., should be cooked in this way. For wet frying, put into a stewpan enough fat or oil to cover the article to be cooked B