8 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY ROOK. Certain joints, such as lamb, veal, pork, etc., if young and tender, should be cooked before a moderate fire, as they take longer to do. Fowls after the first ten minutes should be rubbed over with butter or sweet dripping. An old practice was to dredge all roasts with flour. This, however, is not necessary. The basting must be regularly attended to. For time, much depends on your fire, but as a rule red meats should have a quarter of an hour to the pound, and a quarter of an hour over; white meats, twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minute® over. Never sprinkle salt over the meat before serving—a practice much in vogue among ordinary cooks. It draws the juices from the meat and deteriorates the flavour. Baking is of all others the cheapest and best way of dressing dinners for small families possessed of a good oven, and though generally the flavour is not considered as good as that of roasted meat, there are some dishes preferable when baked, such as pig, hare, legs and loins of pork, shoulders of mutton, fillets of veal, etc.; and a baked ham is said to eat better than a boiled one. Practically the same general rules hold good regarding heat and time—i.e., high tempera- ture for the first few minutes, followed by a reduction of heat. It is almost needless to say, that for bread, cakes, buns, tarts, etc., the oven is your best means of cooking. Boiling.—Dressing food at the point of ebullition of water, or, to be technical, boiling, though a simple and convenient method of cooking, is inmost cases unthrifty, unless the object is to use the liquor in which the meat is boiled for soup,^the most nourishing properties being dissolved out of the meat by the process. Still, for many reasons boiling is sometimes preferred; and in such cases there are certain rules which must be -Observed. The meat should not be put into the pot until the water has boiled for five or six minutes, in order to reduce as much as possible its deteriorating action. After the meat has been put in, it should be allowed to boil briskly for anotkei five minutes, for here, as in roasting, the meat requires a pro-