ADVERTISEMENTS. 22 MAGGI’S GREAT SPECIALITIES. As supplied to Members of the Royal Family. Alls CONSOMME This differs in important essentials from any preparation that is being offered to the public. Meat extracts merely supply a oasis for making soups and gravies- Maggi’s Consomme is itself a perfectly made clear soup of the best quality, instantly prepared by the simple addition of boiling water, and re- quiring no other addition or seasoning whatever. In Continental families Jllaggi is a household word,” because it represents results equal to the best achievements of the skilled cook. The Consomme is put up in gelatine tubes, which protect it from the air and ensure its keeping in any climate. This portability and keeping property, combined with the ease and qu ckness of prep irat on, make it invaluable for travellers, and its super ority to any th ng else of the k nd has been vouched for by the head of the Jeaffreson-Farnham Arctic Expedition, by Officers of the Egypt an Army, and by many other travellers In the s ck-room Magg’s Con- somme is not only more palatable and more qu ckly prepared than beef tea, but ts food value is of high Order. The Lancet testifies to its ‘‘real nutrient as j well as simulating properties,” and equally favourable opinions have been expressed by other medical and hospital papers. In cost Maggi’s Consomme i compares favourably w th any other food preparation of the k nd. It is put up in baxes contamng ten tubes or capsules, each of which will make 3 P ut of strong soup, at the price of 1/8 per box (post free, l/9£). i! IS Dicsolvz <?vj I 'isut' wal<n The French soups, or Patages a la Minute are, with a few except'on pure vegetable preparat ons, desicated and compressed nto tablets, each of which provides sufficient soup for two persons, wh 1st. by using two packets, five persons can be served, and. so on n proport on. Like the Consomme, the Soups are perfectly seasoned, and require no addition but water, the mode of preparation being simpl c ty itself, The tablets are broken up and made into a paste w th a 1 ttle water, and are then boiled n the prescr bed proportion of boiling water for fifteen m nutes. These Soups are made up in packets of six tablets, the cost of each packet be ng 1/4, by post, 1/7- There are 84 Variet es. ESSENCE. Th sis a strong and highly concentrated liquid, the addition of a few drops of which wonderfully improves every k nd of soup, stock, or gravy. It s to be used spar ngly and never n larger quantities than those ndicated. Mugg ’s Essence can be hud either as a pla n concentrated mixture, or si ghtly flavoured with fine herbs. It also acts as un livaluable substitute n d shes for wh ch stock is employed, a few drops of the Essence and an adequate quantity of water be ng the only re qus tes. Mugg’s Essence, diluted w th water, also produces a good seasoning for vegetables, and where the more tasteless and watery ones are concerned it is naturally of the greatest ut lity. Magg’s Essence is sold n bottles. Prjccs : No. 1, 1/8; No 2,1/1); No. 3,5/• No.4, 10/- (VIAGGI’S SP CIA LITIES can be obtained fi om all Grocers and Italian Warehouse men, or direct from the Sole Agents for Great Britain and the Colonies— COSEKZA & Co., 95, 1IGM0RE STREET, LONDON, W.