96 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. more Street. The former is invaluable to inexperienced cooks, as it is a beautifully-prepared clear soup, and only wants the addition of Julienne, strips of vegetable or macaroni, or, indeed, any garnish, to give a particular name to it. The latter are a perfect boon, where a cook-general rules over the culinary department, These sauces are made in three kinds, dark, brown, and. pale, and from these any of the many French sauces can be prepared simply by adding the flavour or gar- nish required. Of course all skilled cooks and chefs can and do make these sauces, but where the cook is inexperienced and ignorant of the art of cooking it is impossible to have them made at home, and these preparations, which contain all the qualities necessary for the most recherche style of cooking, are most valuable and useful; they are easily and quickly pre- pared, and with their help any remains of cold fish or meat can be speedily transformed into a dainty and palatable little entree or breakfast dish. Every good housewife should keep a little store of things, so that if unexpected guests should come in to lunch or dinner she can, without sending out to the shops, produce a dainty and respectable meal, instead of having to rely upon the in- evitable cold meat and salad. I may here give a list of what should always be found in the store cupboard : — Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat, Cosenza’s foundation sauces, J lb. of each; Maggi’s Consomme; chili, tarragon, and Date vinegars; anchovy sauce and. salad oil; tomato relish; Nelson’s table jjellies; Bird’s custard powders and blanc- manges, etc.; Brown and Poison’s cornflour; Cadbury’s cocoa essence; curry powder; pickled chillies and gherkins; sardines and anchovies; tinned tomatoes. With the aid of these stores there should be no difficulty in producing quite a reoherchd little meal, with the addition of any meat or fish which may be in the house. The list may seem rather long at first sight, but none of the articles named are expensive, and they need not be bought all at once, but