110 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. move the skin. Line a basin with suet paste, and put in the sausages. Fry in a small stewpan, with an ounce of butter, 1 chopped onion and 2 sage leaves; mix in a dessertspoonful of flour, and a gill of Oude sauce, pepper and salt. Stir this over the fire until it boils, pour it over the sausages, cover the pudding with paste, and steam for an hour and a half. Meat Patties. Half lb. cold meat, 2 oz. cold ham, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls good gravy, salt and pepper to taste, some puff or short crust. Mince the meat and ham finely, and mix into them the parsley, salt, and pepper. Pour over the gravy. Roll out your pastry \ inch thick, and cut out rounds a little larger than the patty pans. Cut all the tops first, as the pastry rolled a second time is never so fight, and should be used for the bottoms. Butter the patty-pans, fine them with paste, put a spoonful of the meat mixture in the centre, wet the edges of the paste, put on the covers, press the edges together, brush over with egg, and bake for half an hour. Luncheon Pie. Two lb. fillet of veal, forcemeat, 1 lb. fat bacon, ^ lb. ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, \ lb. butter, seasoning. Make J lb. short paste, not rich. Line the bottom and sides of a rather shallow round tin, well buttered. Fry the veal and let it cool. Cut it up into small pieces, put a layer of it in the bottom, then a layer of the bacon cut up, another of the veal, then the ham, and the eggs cut in slices. Season each layer with pepper, salt, and mace or nutmeg. Forcemeat or boiled macaroni may be put, a little on each layer. Cover the pie, and brush it over with an egg. Make a hole in the middle sufficient to pour in a little gravy. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Turn out of the tin very carefully, and pom* in half a teacupful of good gravy, and leave to cool. This is to be eaten cold, cut in quarters from the middle. The paste must not be too rich, or it will not hold the meat.