16 MISS CAMERON’S COOKERY BOOK. business without a proper breakfast, because the kettle has not boiled in time, or damp wood and coal refused to do their work, whilst even the most unsophisticated man can boil a kettle, an egg, and perhaps even fry a rasher of bacon, in an emergency, with the aid of a gas range. In the hands of an experienced cook, a dinner of several courses can be cooked within a couple of hours. Last, but by no means least. There is no doubt that gas is the most economical fuel, if properly managed, the expense only going on when necessary; and while it is impossible to put a coal-fire out and in at will, it is not so with a gas range, which can be raised to the required heat in a few minutes, and the gas extinguished. directly the cooking is done. I have heal’d objections, some of them rather amusing, to the use of gas for cooking, one of them being that it is not so cheerful • as a fire. Without denying this, I cannot see in it an argument against the method: cheerfulness in this case is an expensive luxury. Another is, that gas gives the food a taste. This is a pure fallacy, as with the hygienic burners now used in all good stoves it is impossible that any taste can be imparted to the food. This idea has arisen entirely from want of cleanli- ness. All stoves require cleaning. I have dined in houses where gas was unknown, and yet wheie all the dinner from first to last tasted more of burnt dripping and soot than anything else, and this because the ovens were dirty. Ovens, whether heated by gas or coal, should be washed thoroughly at least once a week with hot water and soda, a precaution which, to my surprise, I find seldom taken, and which is absolutely essential. Of course there are many places where gas is not obtainable, and many admirable ranges by which cooking is, and can be, admirably and economically conducted. Yet. I would like it to be clearly understood that I have no bias what- ever in the matter, though, personally speaking, I have an ob- jection to getting my face and hands scorched before a large coal-fire, an objection which I fancy is largely shared by many ladies anxious to cook, and often deters them from doing so.