The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: h Me 3 0 06 01121 2668f ';4 ll.% MCOOKERY, s AND P A S T R Y. A^^AUGHT AND PRACTISED BY Mrs ^ a C I V E R, TEACHER OF THOSE ARTS IN EDINBURG|H. A NEW EDITION, WITH ADDITIONS. TO WHICH ARE ADDED, FIGURES OF DINNER AND SUPPER' COURSES, FROM FIVE TO FIFTEEN DISHES. ALSO, A CORRECT LIST OF EVERY THING IN SEASON FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR. LONDON: Printed for C. ELLIOT and T. KAY, oppofite Somerfet-Place, Strand ; and C. ELLIOT, Edinburgh. M,DCC,LXXXIX. ■f r j s 1 i . i t t ( i ^ ■ f f ' mtmr U£IS t: I*ADVERTISEMENT. TO THE FORMER EDITIONS. HE Author’s fituation in life hath led her to be much converfant in Cookery, Paftry, &c. and afforded her ample opportunity of knowing the moft approved methods pra^fifed b y others, and alfo of making experiments of her own. Some year^ ago fhe opened a fchool in this city for inflrucling young Ladies in this neceffary branch of female edu" cation; and fhe hath the fatisfaction to find that fuc- cefs hath accompanied her labours. And many of ' her fcholars, and others, having repeatedly folicited' her to make her receipts public; thefe folicitations^ joined to an hearty defire of doing every thing that it was thought could be ufeful in the way of her bu« fiiiefs, have at length determined her to this publi- cation. She is far from thinking this little Book perfe£f; but as all the receipts contained in it have been frequently pradlifed by her, fhe is hopeful it will be found a good pradlical treatife. Edinkurghy November^ 1783. A 2 /ADVERTISEMENT. TO this edition. TT was fiiggefted by fome friends, tliat the addi- tion of fome Figures of Courfes for Dinners and Suppers fhould be fubjoined ; accordingly, I have made out feveral Courfes from five to fifteen dilhes. As for Supper courfes, a lift of things for that pur- pofe is given, from which any Lady of the fmalleft experience may form Suppers of any extent accord- ing to the articles that are in feafon- All the difnes o for both Dinners and Suppers are to be found in this little Book j and it is prefumed it is calculated for the genteel and miiidling ranks of life, and not filled with diflies that will never be ufed by one out of an hundred families that may purchafe them. There is likewife added a correct lift of ever thing in Sea, foil in every month of the year, which will be found particularly ufeful to young houfe-keepers. SUSANNA MACl VER. Edinburghy Dec. 1788, CONTENTS.CONTENTS. CHAP. I. - * SOUPS. A ftock for foups or fauces, - - I3 Spices proper to be mixed with any kind of feafonlng’, 14 Imperial white foup, - - - 14 Pigeon foup, - - - 15 Hare foup, - - - 16 Green fummer foup, - - - 17 Plumb pottage, - • - - - 17 l.eek foup, - - - - 18 Onion foup, - - - - T9 Peafe foup, - - - - aa To make the fame foup pafs in fummer as green peafe foup, a I Green meagre foup, - - ~ CHAP. FISH. To drefs a cod’s head. To roaft a cod’s head. To broil cod, To drefs fmall cod with ale*fauce. To crimp cod after the Dutch manner. To ftew foies, To fry foies, - - To roaft falmon. To crimp Ikate, To pot any fort of fifli. To pickle oyfters, To pickle mufcles or cockles, 1 o fricafee oyfters, cockles, or mufcles. To fcallop oyllers, T o brown oyften< in their own juice, ’I o drefs haddocks with a brown faucc, 'I'o ftuff large haddocks, T o drefs whitens with a white fauce, To make pa'-ton or crab pies, A f' icafee of lohllcrs. To ftew trouts with brown fauce, T o p(.t eels, The beft way of potting frefli herrings, To fry turbot, 1 o drefs a fea-cat, 10 drefs a fea-cat with a white fauce, A 3 II. iz 23 24 24 25 25 z6 27 27 2? 28 29 30 3^ 31 32 33 34 35 3^> - ■ 37 3ii - - 38 39 C H A l\CONTENTS. V2 To CHAP. III. FLESH. To red a mmp of beef, - - Page 40 I’o make a mutton bam, - - - 40 a liacoii ham, - - - 4I To cure neats tongues, - - - - 4a Ti) make forced-meat balls, - - - 43 To flew a rump of beef, - - * 43 a rump of beef with roots, - - 45 Beef a-la-mode, _ - - 46 To jjot beef, - - - - 47 To makejrinced collops, - - - , 48 'jI'o jiot a cow’s head, - - - 49 To broil beef fteaks, - - - - 30 To make Scots (or flowed) beef collops, - *50 To make beef collops, - - 51 To collar beef, - - - 5a .Scarlet beef, - - - 53 To flew a fillet of veal, - “ “ 53 To make Scotch collops, (veal) - - 54 To I'aflt cold veal, - - “55 '‘i'o mince cold veal, - - “55 To make veal cutlets, - - 56 Broiled veal cutlets, - - - - 56 To fricafee a breafl of veal, * - 57 To make veal fricandoes, - - 58 veal olives, - - “59 To drefs a call’s head, - ““ 59 T'o make brain cakes, - - - 61 To turtle a calf’s head, - - - 61 'Fo jiot a calf’s head, - ' - - 6i To make mutton cutlets, - - 64 To halh cold mutton, - - - 64 To make a haricot of mutton, - * 65 To drefs a difn of mutton with paper In place of coals, 66 To boil a leg of lamb with cabbage or cauliflower, - 67 I.amb covered wdth rice, - - - 67 To drefs a lamb’s head, - - - 68 chickens wdth peafe and lettuce, - - 70 'I'o make veal or lamb toafts, - - 71 A jugged hare, - - - 71 A good Scotch haggles, - - 72 A iamb’s baggies, - - 73 A pudding of lamb’s blood, - *74 'I'o make puddings either of flieep or cow’s blood, - 73 liver puddings, - - - 7^ apple puddings, - - _ 76I CONTENTS. • « Vll To make rice puddings, ^ ' almond puddings in fklns, To mail a calf’s ur lamb’s liver,. To ragco a liver, To make cake-jelly of calve’s feet, portable foup, To ragoo pallets and kernels, - - ' Hare coilops, To roaft a hare, To fmother rabbits, - - - To make a caparata, - - General rules for boiling fowls, A 1 ai fley fauce, - - - - An ■ ‘yiler fauce, - - A celery fai ce, A cream fauce, _ - _ To boil beef or mutton in the juice. To roaft any piece of venifon, To dew venifon, - - - Venifon in the blood, To ftevv venifon that has been roafted. To broil venifon, _ - - To boil a haunch of venifi n. To r©^ and ftuff a turkey. The beft fauce for a roafted hen. To roaft a goofe or duck. To di efs a wild duck, To ra?oo a pair of ducks, I’o make a tame duck pafs for a wild one. To pot geefe the French way, - , A general r ile for roaftiug wild-fowl. To pot any kind of wild-fowl, pigeons, - To ftove pigeons, - - . To ragoo pigeons, To broil pigeons whole, Difguifed pige('ns, A pigeon dumpling, To ftew cold roafted wild-fowl or hare, To ragoo rabbits, - - To ftew a neat’s tongue whole, To halh a cold neat’s tongue, A fauce for a roafted tougue, I'o potch eggs With foirel, An aumulctte, Egg and cnions, commonly called the onion-difh.. Page 76 77 77 77 78 79 8r 82 82 83 83 84 85 85 85 86 86 ' 87 87 88 88 - 89 89 89 90 91 92 93 93 94 95 95 - 96 97 - 98 99 99 100 101 101 102 103 103 104 105 CHAP. /CONTENTS, Vlil CHAP. IV. P I E S, P A S T I E S, &c. To make a bcef-fteak pie, a mutton-ileak pie, a venifon pafty, A mock venifon i-al'y, To make a veal Sorentine, a pigeon pic, a chicken pie, fuperfine' .meed pies, a common minced pie, a gibblet pie, a hare or mo Tfowl pic, a kernel pic, a calf’s-foot pie, A marrow pafty. An egg pie. An eel pie, A curd ftorentine. An app’e pie, An apple pie with potatoes, A chefnur pie, A goofeberry pie, - - - To make pufled pafte, A comrwon pie pafte. To make pafte for th'e cafes of preferved tarts, A pafte for raifed pies. To make apple tarts, Goofeberry tarts. Cherry tart^, - . To make rafberry or currant tarts, prune tarts, Peach or apricot tarts, To make a glazing for'tat ts, A light boil’d pudding, , A boil’d cuftard pudding, A plumb pudding, A plain fuet pudding, A boiled bread pudding, A boiled rice pudding, A pcafe pudding, A whole rice pudding. Another rice pudding, i A lair pudding, A marrow pudding, A lanfy pudding, Page 105 106 106 IC7 108 10^ 109 110 111 iia 113 113 114 iij 115 116 116 117 117 n8 118 119 119 lao 121 ' 1 21 122 riz 12i 1^3 123 124 124 I2J 125 126 126 127 128 128 129 129 130 131 AnIX CONTENTS An orange pudding, - - - - A lemon pudding, - " . “ * A citron pudding, - . - A green goofebei ry pudding, An apple pudding, - - - An almond pudding, . - - A fago or millet pudding, A potato pudding, A common potato pudding to be fired below roafted meat, A bread pudding to be fir^ below meat, A hafty pudding, - - - ’ A carrot pudding, - - ^ - An apple^umplir.g. Sir Robert Walpole’s dumplings, I'o make curd cheefe-cakes, lemon cheefe-cakes, ' - - , almond cheefe-cakes, cuilards, - • - rice cuhards, - - almond cuftards, > - - clear lemon cream, - , - ' an orange cream, ratafia ci earn, > . . fvveet almond cream, clouted cream, velvet cream, fteeple cream, » . ~ - bandllring curd, Rulh curd, - - Tender curd, , . To make fairy butter, . S^lla''ubs, ' - , , An ther kind of fyllabubs, Blauc-mange, Goofcberry cream, - , To make ftrav/bcrry, rafbcrry, cr currant cream, r0 make rice cieam, . « A rich ea-^ing polfet, A Common eating polfet, - , „ To make hartHicrn iellv, Calve’s-feet jelly, Jelly for a coiilumption, A hen’s nell, Jelly in cream, 1 u diih up cold chicken in jelly, A fl latiiig iilaiul, A trllle, Page,! 3 » 133 133 >34 >35 135 I3<^ - 136 137 *38 138 >39 140 141 M3 >43 144 >44 >45 146 I4« 147 148 148 >49 149 ijo JiO 15 > I5.i *5i 153 154 155 >55 156 >37 137 158 139 160 260 161 161 iCfZCONTENTS. to An egjy cheefe, - - Page *64 To make a cheefe loaf, - - 164 fine pancakes, - - 165 a very good baked pudding with the fame batter, 166 To turn the fame batter into a dilfcrent form, - 167 To make pan-puddings, - - 167 apj)le fritters, - - 168 currant fritters, - - 169 oyl^er fritters, - - 169 potato fritters, / - - 170 a tanfy cake, - - 170 The poor knights of Windfor, - - 171 To make fniall curd puddings, - - 172 , a curd florentine, - - 173 To flew parfnips, - - - - 173. red cabbage, - ' 174 ciicumbei-s, - - - 174 To dref? parfnips to eat like Iklrrets, - ' - 175 Celery with c earn, - - 176 To ftew celery' in gravy, - - 176 To have adiih of kidney-beans in the winter, - 177 To keep artichc.ke bottoms the whole year, - 178 The heft wa\ of keeping green goofeben ivS for tarts, - 179 To make white culfards, - - 1^0 German puffs, - - l8s apple puffs, - - ’ j8f fl ;or t-bread, - - iSZ’ a ridi bun, - - - 183 a fourtlipai t plumb-cake, - l8y a fexrd-cake, - - 186 a diet-loaf, - - 187 a ci.rraiic-cake, - 187 To make fine gii ger-bread, - 188 Cy mnion bifcuit, - - 189 the fame bifcuit proper for beating to put in fine puddings, - - 189 To make Savoy bifcuit, - - jgp fpiipl'c bifcuit, - - * common almcnd bifcuit, - - xpo ratafia drops, - - lyi fquirt, fiuit, and fliaving bifcuit, - lyj ' C H A P. V. PRESERVES, P I C K L E S, &c. To clarify fugar, - - - iq^ U’u^makc fmooth marmalade, - - jp^CONTENTS XI To To^make chip marmalaile. To preferve <vhoIe oranges, orange fkins, ^referved fliced oranges, xo preferve orange grate, Orange chips, - ' - To make orange-peel, - . ' - To candy angelica, - _ ‘ flowers, To make red-errant jelly. White-currant jelly, - -r Black-currant-jelly, To preferve whJe currants, . An excellent way of doing currants for prefent ufe. To preferve rafberries whole, To make rafberry jam. To preferve green goofeberries,* red goofeberries. To make goofeberry jam, goofeberry jelly. To preferve cherries, cherries with ftalks and leaves, apricots, To make apricot jam. To preferve green gauge plums, magnum plums. To keep common plums for tarts, To preferve peaches, pears, pears red, - * To make apple jelly, Chip and jelly of apples, To preferve apples green, Apples in fyrup, To preferve cucumbers, melons green almonds, barberries. To make lemon fyrup, Syrup of cU.ve julyflower, of violets, of pale rofes, . - ' - . of maidenhair, of turnip, of nettles, • Conferve of rofes, To make tablets, Page 195 196 - 198 199 201 20% 20% ^03 204 20s 206 206 208 209 210 211 2II 213 214 214 215 216 217 218 218 220 ‘ 221 221 222 222 223 224 225 227 227 .230 230 231 43a 433 ^34 434 435 435 43^ 436 437To make barley-fugar, ' glazing for feed or plum-cake, To mango cucumbers. To pickle walnuts, mufhrooms, cauliflowers, - ^ oiiioii<i, red cabbago, beet-root, barberries. To make pickle-lillo, or Indian pickle, , fugar vinegar, goofeberry vinegar, ketchup, walnut ketchup, ' a twenty pint barrel of double-rum fbrub, the tuie French white ratafia. Family dinners of five diflies, feven diflies, eight difhes, rinedifhes, ten difhes, twelve difhes, fifteen difhes, Things for fupper diflies, Lill of things in feafun inj every month of the year, Page ^39 ^39 241 242 5^43 244 244 245 246 246 248 248 249 249 251 253 254 255 255 256 256 256 257 258 N. B. The liquid meafure is given in Scotch ; but it can in a Hiinute be reduced into Englifh by the following. Englifli and Scotch gallon (wine and fpirit meafure the fame*, I Scotch pint is equal to 4 Englifh pints; I Scotch chopin to 2.Englifh pints ; I Scotch mutchkin to one Engliih pint; I Scotch half»mutchkin to a half-pint Englifh; and fo on. COOKERYCOOKERY AND PASTRY. CHAP. L SOUPS.. A Stock for Soups or Sauces. T^AKE a round of beef and put it i into a pot of cold water. If it is a large piece, let it boil three quarters of an hour. Take it out, and fcore it well on all fdes with a knife', to draw^ the juice from it j then put the beef and juice into the pot again; put in fome whole black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, a faggot of fweet herbs, two or three onions, and a large carrot. Lret all boil together, until the whole fub- ftance is out of the meat; then drain it off, and let it Hand all night; take off all the fat, then pour it off from the B grounds.14 CooKERv'and Pastry. grounds. This Is an excellent foup, or a fine flock for any rich fauces. If you want the foup brown, put in a little black cruft of a fine loaf, and a few onion-fkins, along with the reft of the feafonings ; difh k up ontoafted bread ; and, if you pleafe, put in about two ounces of vermicellk Spices^ Proper to he mixed nvith any kind of feafoning. Take an ounce of black and an ounce of Jamaica pepper, two drop of cloves, 'and two or three nutmegs; beat them into a powder, and mix them all to- gether, and put them in a box or bottle, ib as they catch no air; and then you have them ready for feafoning any kind of fauce. Ixnperial White Soup, Take three or four pound of a round of beef, blanch it all night in cold wa- ter ; put it on the fire in a pot of cold water alongft with a gigot of lamb ; putCh.I. 15 Soups. put in feme whole white pepper,’ a few cloves, and a blade of mace; tie up a faggot of parfley and chives*, or young onions. Let all boil till the fubftance is entirely out of the meat; then drain it off, and put in as much fweet cream as will make it w^hite, and fait to your tade; put it on the fire to warm, and didi it up on toaded breads Pigeon Soup, Take eight good pigeons, take the pinions, necks, gizzards, and livers ; cut down two of the word of the pi- geons, and put them on with as much water as will make a large dilh of foup; boil them until all the fubdance is out of them; then drain them off; feafon the whole pigeons within with your mixed fpices and dvlt; trufs them with their legs into their belly; take a large handful of pardey, chives or young onions, and a good deal of fpiriage; pick and wadi the herbs very dean; B 2 fhred * Chives are what the country people call Scythes^ fi6 Cookery and Pastry. fhred them, but not too fmall; take about a handful of grated bread, put a good piece of butter in a frying-pan, let it come to boil, and then throw in the bread amongft the boiling butter, clofe ftirring the bread from the bottom of the pan with a knife, until it becomes of a fine brown colour. Then put on your ftock to boil, and then put in the ■whole pigeons alongfl: with the herbs and fried bread ; and let them boil to- gether till the pigeons are enough done, and then difh them up with the foup. If you do not find the foup enough fea- foned, put in a little more of the mixed Ipices and fait. Hare Soup. Take a hare, cut it down, wafh it through two or three waters very well, fave all the blood, and break the clots in the wafhings; then run it through a fearce; put on all the wafhings and blood with a good piece of lean beef. Let thefe boil together a good time be- fore you put in the hare; feafon it with faitCh, I. Sows. *7 fait and mixed fpices, a faggot of fweet herbs, and two or three onions; thicken it with a little browned butter and flour. Some like it with a few? cur- rants in it; but this is as you choofe. Then difh it up (after taking out the herbs and onions) altogether. Green Summer Soup. Take as much of the flock of beef as will make a good difh of foup ; take the fame herbs and fried crumb of bread, and order them all in the fame manner as in the pigeon foup ; parboil a carrot or two, and cut them very fmall; take fome young green peafe, then puu in the carrots and peafe along with the reft of the herbs. If you have not the flock of beef, cut down the back-ribs o£ mutton, and put it in as you do in com- mon hotchpotch, and difh it up in the fame way. Plumb Pottage. Take a hough of beef and a knuckle of veal; put them on the fire in a clofe B 3 pot^i 18 Cookery and Pastry. pot, with fix or feven Scots pints (three and a half gallons) of water; take out the veal before it is overboiled, and let the beef boil till the whale fubfiance is out of it; ftrain off the flock, and then put in the crumb of a twopenny loaf, two pounds of currants well cleaned, two pounds of rat- fins ftoned, and one pound of prunes. Let all boil together till they fwell; then warm the veal, and put it in the middle of the diih. Leek Soup, Take large leeks, according to the dlfii you intend ; cut them about an inch long, with as much of the tender green as you can ; throw them into water as’ you cut them ; then cut fome flices of bread, neither too thick nor too thin put in fome butter into a frying-pan; when it boils, cut the bread into fquare pieces, lay them in, and brown them on both fides; have fome prunes ready wafhed ; if they are dry, take the leeks out of the firll water, and waih them through another; have as much water ' boilingch. I. *9 Soups. boiling in a pan as will cover your ma- terials; throw them all into it, and fea- fon it with fait and mixed fpices. When the leeks are enough done,, your foup is' ready.- Onion Soup. Take half a pound of fplit peafe, which put into two pints of water (one gallon); let them boil' till the peafe are dilTolvedj ftrain them off; take half a pound of butter, put it in a flew-pan, and boil it until it have done with making a node; take ten onions, cut them fmall, and throw them into the butter ; fry them a little, then drudge fome flour on them, ftirring them all the time; let - them fry a little after ; then pour your flock boiling hot on them-, and let them boil a little time; then flrain it off again, put in a few whole fmall onions, paired or fkinned, into your foup, and :boil them until they are enough done ; fea- • fon it with mixed fpices and fait to your tafle; difh it up on fried bread, and the 'whole onions. B 4 PeafiCookery and Pastry. 20 Peafe Soup, Take a pound of fplit peafe; put them in cold water, with a piece of butter, a large leek or an onion or two, and a large parfnip or carrot; let all boil until the peafe are diffolved ; turn them into a drainer, and bruife the peafe with the back of a fpoon ; then put in fome of the thin, till the peafe are quite waflied through the drainer ; then turn it back into the pot, and let it boil; then feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. If you want it to look green, beat fome fpinage, and fqueeze out the juice, which put into the foup^ with a handful of fpinage-leaves. When this is boiled enough, the foup is ready. Difh it on fried bread. If you choofe fweet herbs, you may throw in a fprig of thyme, winter-favory, and mint, in- to the dock; likewife a red herring, if you choofe it. Some choofe a piece of pork, hung bacon, or a piece of beef^ in either of thefe cafes, put no butter in yourSoups. 2X Ch.L B 5 fon your ftock. Dlfli up the meat in your ibup. T0 make the fame Soup pafs in Summer as Green Peafe Soup, Take the foregoing foup; and as the green peafe are a great deal fweeter than the dried peafe, put in a little fugar, and a good deal of the fpinage-juice; to make it of a fine green, pur in fome green peafe; and when they are enough, the fbup is ready. Green meagre Soup, Take fome celery, two or three cat^ rots, a turnip or two, and half a pound of fplit peafe ; put them all on in boil- ing water, with a good piece of butter, and a fprig of wimer-favory; let them all boil together about an hour and a half; then drain it off the roots ; take fome parfley, fpinage, chivevS or young onions, and chervil; fhred them grofs- ly, and boil them in the dock; thicken it with fried crumb of bread, and fea-5 time 3 / 'll Cookery and Pastry. fon it with your mixed fpices and fait; then difli it up. UT the head and a piece of the fhoulders into a pan of boiling wa- ter; beTure the fifh is covered with the ■water, throw in a good deal of fait and vinegar to make the fauce ; take Hock, made either of beef or fifli; work a good piece of butter and flour together; ftir it in your fauce till the butter is melted ; then put in fome pickled oyfters with fome of their liquor, a lobfter cut in pieces, a whole onion, the fqueeze of a le- mon, and a little of the peel, a little white-wine ketchup, and mixed fpices ^ and fait. Let all boil together a little CHAP. II. d . F I S H. To drefs a Cod's Head,B 6 fame I Ch. II. FI s H. 2j time; then throw in a few pickles Into the fauce juft when you are going to dilli it It ought to be put in a very- deep difh, as it requires a great deal of fauce If your difli does not hold it all, put the remainder in a bowl, and fend it to the table with the dilh. Garnifli it with fried flounders, fpirlings, or whitings; put a little fried parfley be- tween every fifh. If you have no fifties, fupply their place with horfe-radiihe$ fc raped. To roajl a Cod's Head, Take the head and flioulders, and lay it. in a flat tin pan ; flew a little fait over it; put it into a quick hot ovea about half an hour; then take it our. and pour off all the watery fluff frora it; bafte it well with butter, and ftrew fome mixed fpices over it; put it into the oven again for fome time, drawing it often to the mouth of the oven, and bafting it with the butter. When you fee it is enough fired, difli it in the fame way you do the boiled head, and the24 CookePY and Pastry. famefauce; adding thereto two or three anchovies, if you have them. 7c? broil Cod, Cut in pieces about an Inch thick ; dull it with flour, and lay it upon the gridiron over a flow fire. Take a little gravy, a glafs of white-wine, fait and ipices, a few pickled oyfters, and a lit- tle ketchup, thickening them with a little butter rolled in flour. Send the lauce in a dilh to table. To drefs fmall Cod njoith Ale^fauce, Put on fome twopenny, or fmall beer j have fome browned butter ready, thick- ened with flour ; pour it on the ale boil- ing, keeping ftirring all the while; then divide the codlings into two or three pieces, according to their fize; put in the heads along with them into the fauce, two or three cut onions, fait and mixed Ipices, fome lemon-peel, and a little ketchup Put it "in a Ibup-dilh, ■with fome cut pickles. ToFish. Ch. IL 25 To crimp Cod after the Dutch manner. Boil two pints (one gallon) of water and a pound of fait; Ikim it very clean; cut the cod in thin flices; put it into boiling water for three minutes; drain it well from the water; garniili your dilh with parfley. It (hould be eat with oil, muftard, and vinegar. To few Soles, Skin the foies; flour them ; then put them in a panful of brown butter boil- ing hot; fry them a light brown; then drain all the fat from them; brown a good piece of batter in flour, to which put a little gravy, a few oyfters and their liquor, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome onions, a little claret, the fqueeze of a lemon, and an anchovy; mix them all together, then put in the foies ; let them Hew over a very flow fire half an hour. When you are going to dilh the foies (take out the fweet herbs and onions), feafonthem with fait and mix- ed26 Cookery and Pastry. ed fpices; garnifli your difh with fllced lemons. To fry Soles, Skin and fcore them crofs-ways ; drudge them with flour; then fry them in a panful of brown butter boiling hot, till they are of a fine brown. Diih and garnifli them with parfley and di- ced orange. Beef drippings, when fweet, will anfwer better than butter to fry them with. To roajl Salmon, Wafli and fcrape the fcales from it very clean ; dry it with a cloth ; cut it crofs-ways; ftrew it over with fait, mix- ed fpices, and grated crumbs of bread ; then lay it in a tin pan, putting a little butter in the bottom of the pan, and plenty above the falmon ; put it in the oven till it is enough. It may be eat with oyfler-fauce, or beat butter and parfley. A grilfe done in the oven is a very fine dilh. Turn the tail into the mouth, and be fure you do not fcore it asCh. II. Fish. 27 as you do the falmon; ftrew fait and mixed fpices over it, with plenty of but- ter above and below it. Eat it with the fame fauce as the falmon. Garnifti both with parfley. To crimp Skate, Cut It about an inch broad; turn each piece round, and tie it with a thread y have as much fait and water ready boil- ing as will cover it; put it in, and boil it on a very quick fire; cut off the threads, and put it on a dry difh. If you are to eat it hot, fend beat butter and parfley along with it. Garnifh with parfley. To pot any fort of Fifh, Scrape and clean them well; cut them in middling pieces ; feafon them with fait and fpices; pack them clofe up in a potting-can, with plenty of butter above and below ; tie fome. folds of coarfe pa- per on the pot; then put them in a flow oven, and when they are enough fired, take them out of the can, and drain them well2& Cookery and Pastry. well from their liquor; let both cool; put the fi{h into fmall white pots; (kirn all the butter off the liquor ; then take fome more butter along with that you take from the liquor ; melt it down, and pour it on the filli. Send them in the pots to table. To pickle Oyji crs. Open the oyfters and throw them in- to a bafon; waih them in their own li- quor, and take them out one by one; then ftrain the liquor, and let it (land to fettle; you may add a little water to it; fet it on the fire to boil; put a good deal of whole pepper, fome blades of mace and nutmeg; let your oyfiers have aboil and keep them fiirring; when you think them enough done, take them oflT, put them into an earthen pet and cover them very clofe; be fure you have li- quor enough to cover them ; you may eat them next day if you pleafe. To pickle Mufcles or Cockles, Take your mufcles, beard and wafii themCh. II. 129 Fish. them very clean ; put them In a pot to open over the fire ; take them out of their fhells and lay them to cool; put their liquor into a clean bafon, and let it (land till any fand or grit fall to the bottom; then pour off the clear; take ginger, mace, and black pepper, and put to your liquor; make it fcalding hot; put in your cockles or mufcles and let them flew a while, and pour them into a cullender; let them lie till quite cold and the liquor cold llkerwife; fo put them together in a can or jug, and tie them clofe up, and keep them for ufe. \ To frtcafee Oyjlers^ Cockles^ or Mufcles* Wafh them thoroughly clean in their own liquor, then drain the clean liquor on them; put them on the fire, and give them a fcald ; lift them out of the liquor ; take fome of the liquor, and chicken it with a little butter and flour kned together. When it comes to boil, put in the filh, and let them juft get a boil or two. Have fome yolks of’eggs; caft30 Cookery and Pastry. |( cafl two, three, or more, according ta |: the fize of the difli you make ; take a |i little of the liquor out of the pan, and li mix it with the yolks of eggs; then put ,1 them in the pan, and give them a tofs I or two, but don’t let them boil y then I difh them. I To fcallop Oyjiers. I Clean and fcald them ; put a littlcr I butter into your fcallops; fill them with: J the cyders ; feafon them with a little fait and fpices. As you fill the fcallops, put in a little of the liquor, with half a fpoonful of white-wine. When the fcallops are filled with the oyflers, cover them with crumbs of bread, and lay fmall pieces of butter above all. You may do them in an oven, or brown them before the fire. To bro'wn O^Jiers In their own juice. Take the larged you can get; wafh them clean through their own juice; lay them clofe together in a frying-pan, but don’t put one above another; make them I3^ F I s II. Ch. II. them of a fine brown on both fides; if one panful is not fufficient, do olT more; when they are all done, pour in fome of their juice into the pan; let it boil a little, and mix any of the thick- nefs of the oyfters that may remain in the pan, and then pour it over them. Of all the ways of -drefling them, this is the moft delicious. To drefs Haddocks uuith a BrOwnlSauce. Take the largeft you can get; clean them well, and cut off the heads, tails, belly (or what is commonly called the lugs), and fins; lay the fifh in as much fmall ale and vinegar as will co- ver them; let them lie in it as long as you can ; take the heads, tails, &c. and cut down one of the fifh; put them all together in a pan, with as much water as will be fauce ; put in an onion or two, a fprig of winter-favory, thyme, and a little lemon-peel ; let all boil till the whole fubftance is out of the fifh ; then drain off the dock. Brown lome butter, and thicken it with flour ; mix in32 Cookery and Pastry. i in the ftock with fome ketchup, mixed : fpices, and fair. You may put in a. fpoonful of walnut-pickle, if you have , any. When the fauce comes a-boil, put in your fifh ; have fome oyhers or mufcles ready, and put either of them in with a little of their juice; put in fome cut pickles juft when you are a- i bout to difh them; or if you want your [• fauce to be richer, make your dock of F beef in place of fifh. It is much the j; better of a little wine: you may put in li fome claret. To Jhiff large Haddocks. 1 Open them at the gills, and take out the guts, but don’t flic up the belly; be fare to clean them well. Boil fome of them in fait and water ; \ then fldn and take the bones from | them, and chop them on your min- ! cing board very fmall. If your win- ' ter-favory and thyme is dried, beat i and fearce them; feafon the chopped filb with fait and mixed fpices. You muft work them up with a good deal ofCh. II. 33 Fish. of fweet butter, and as much beat eggs as will make them ftick; then {lu(F the bellies of your haddocks with the forc’d meat; keep fome of it to roll up in balls ; be fure to fry them in brown butter; make the fauce the fame as the former, and boil the fifli in ic; be fure that the fauce cover them: put in the balls, and give them a boil along with the filh. If the fifh have roes, boil them alone in fait and water ; garniih the difli with them and parfley. You i mu ft lay them in ale and vinegar, as in the former receipt. 2*0 drefs Whitings with a White Sauce. Clean them well, and lay them in fait and water. You may make ycur ftock of haddocks, or, if you pleafe, the broth of a young cock, and feafon it with fair, whole white pepper, mace, lemon-peel, and two or three cloves. When this is / enough, drain ic off, and turn it back into the pan, and thicken it with but- » ter wrought in flour. When it boils, have fome parfley, chives, or young onions,Cookery and P^^stry. 34 onions, minced fmall, and put them In the fauce ; let them boil a little before you put in whitings, for a very little will do them ; cafl fome yolks of eggs, according to the fize of the difh; fcrape* a little nutmeg amongd; the eggs, a glafs of white-wine, and a little of the juice of a lemon ; then take out a little: of the boiling fauce, and mix with the: eggs; pour ail into the pan amongft the fauce, keeping it fliaking over the fire., Be fure you never let any i'auce boil af- ter the eggs go in. Small haddocks drefled the fame way are very good. 1^0 make Pai'ton (Crab) Pies. After your partons (crabs) are boiled, pick the meat clean out of the body and: toes (claws); be fure that you leave none of the fhells amongft the meat; feafon it; with fait and fpices; put in fome crumbs of bread ; put them in a pan wdth a good deal of red or white wine, but; red is preferable; put in alfo a good quantity of butter ; then put them on f tlie fire, and let them be thoroughly (j boiled \Ch. II. Fish. boiled; wafli the (liells of tht body ^ery clean, and fill them up with the meat, fo far as it will go; fire them in an o- ven, or, if you have not an oven at hand, put them on a gridiron over 'a x:lear fire j then brown them before the fire. Fricafee af Loiters, After boiling your Lobfters, pick the meat out of the toes (claws) and tail; iLit it into fquare or long pieces, not too nail; pick aUo all the good meat out f the body. If it be a coral lobfter, be are you take all the red. Take as much ood (lock of any kind of meat as will over them; in which you may boil blade of mace and fome lemon-peel; hicken it with a piece of butter wrought n flour; when it boils, put in your lob- lers; ca(l the eggs and other materials n the fame manner as in the fauce for he whitings: do not have too much liuce, as it muft be pretty thick. All Fricafee fauces are the better of a little hick fweet cream. Take fome of the •under3^ Cookery and Pi\sTRY. 5 tail,f under ends of the fmall toes, (claws) and fllced lemon for garnifliing your diih. ToJleuu T7^outs Broixm Sauce, After they are cleaned, dry them very well; duft them with flour, and brown them a little in the frying pan ; take as much flock of either beef or filh ; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and an onion ' or two; flrain off your flock; thicken it with browned butter and flour; fea- fon it with fpices, fait, ketchup, a little- walnut'pickle, and fome claret. When, the fauce comes a-boil, put in the trouts,, and flew them until they be enough. If- you choofe them with a white fauce,,! do them in the fame manner as the I whitings. You may drefs pike or eel.l in the fame way as the trouts with aJ browm fauce, taking care to cut the.*! eels in pieces about three or four inches I Jong. |! To pot Eels, r lie After taking the flvin off your eels,,L fplit them from the ihoulders to theA,tall, and bone them; feafon them very highly with fait, fplces, and fweec herbs; then put every two together, the infide of the fhoulders of the one to the infide of the-tall of the other; roll every pair up as you do a collar, and take as many of them as will fill your potting-can, putting fome butter above and below them: cover them with courfe p^per; put them in the oven, which muff not be too hot; it will be a good while before they be enough. When you difli them, put one of the collars in the middle of the afiTec (difli), and cut another into thin dices, and put round the one in the middle. You, may garnifh them with any green thing you choofe. Bejl way of potting frejlj Herrings. Scale them, and make them very clean; feafon them well with fait and (pices; pack them neatly in your pot- :ing-can, laying the fhoulders of the s,bne to the tail of the other. When you icliave as many in as you intend, pour ill C on\ 38 Cookery and Pastry. on as much vinegar as will cover them; bind them clofe up, and put them in a flow oven. They will take about four hours of doing. To Fry Turbot, Slice the turbot as thin as you can; flour them, and ffy them on both fldes of a fine brown; beat fome butter; put a little walnut pickle, fome pickled oyfters, and a little ketchup in it for a fauce, which you may pour over the turbot: garnifli them with fliced lemon or pickles. The tail-cut is the bell: for frying. To drejs a Sea-cat, Wafh it very clean, and fkin it; turn, the tail into the mouth ; cake fome* good flock, thicken it with brownedl butter and flour ; put in fome claret,, ketchup, fait, and fpices, two or three, anchovies, fome pickled oyellers withi fome of their liquor, fome cut pickled: ■walnuts with a little of their pickle be fure to have as much fauce as will coverF I s H. 39 Ch. II. cover the fifh ; boll the fifli amongft the fauce; then difti it, and put the fauce about it. To drefs a Sea^cat njuith amjhlte Sauce, Order the filh as in the former re- ceipt ; boil it in fait and water ; and for fauce take fome good (lock; thick- en it with butter; work in flour a little white-wine, a blade of mace, a little piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy, fomc pickled oyfters, and a little of their li- quor- When the fauce is ready, beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with it; difli it, and pour the fauce over it. Anchovies, oyfters, pickled walnuts, and lemon-peel, are fine ingredients for all kinds of drefled flfti. If you have no ftock made of meat, you may make a very good one of filh. The proper, fifh for it are haddocks, whitings, and flounders. C 2 CHAP.Cookery and Pastry. CHAP. III. FLESH. 7o 7'ed a Rump of Beef For one rump, take two ounces of faltpetre, a quarter of a pound brown fugar, half a pound bay fait, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two drops of cloves, a nutmeg or two; beat and mix them altogether, and rub it into the beef as well as you can \ then rub it over with common fait; bed and cover it with the fame; let it lie three weeks, turning it every other day, and then hang it up. To make Mutton Hams. Half a pound of bay fait, a quarter of a pound of fugar, will do three or four mutton hams. Jf they are very large, allow half an ounce of faltpetre to each ham, and the fame fpices as in the aboveCh. III. 41 Flesh. above receipt* Thrufl your finger down the hole of the fliaiik, and fluff it well with the falts and fpices; rub them well ’ over with the fame; then rub them over with common fait, and pack them in the trough, turning them every other day for a fortnight, and then hang them up. To make a Bacon Ham. Take a pound of common and a pound of bay fait, two ounces of faltpetre, an ounce of falprunella, a quarter of a pound of coarfe fugar, and fpices as in the former receipts ; mix all well toge- ther: open it a little at the fhank; ftuff it well with the fait and fpices; then tie it hard up with pack-thread round the fhank-bone to keep the air out of it;, rub it all over v/ith the mixture as well as poffible; lay it in a trough, and drew a little fait above and below it; take two of three folds of an old blanket, and cover the trough to keep out the air. After it has lain that way two or three days, pour off all that brine; then. C 3 takeCookery and Pastry. 42 take what was left of the mixed falts, and mix in fome more common fait with them: rub the ham every day with it, turning it, and throwing away the old brine every day. Continue fo doing for three weeks; be fure to co- ver the trough always with the cloth ; lay the ham upon a table, with boards and weights above it; then hang it up. All hung-meat is beft fmoked with Wood ; juniper is the bed, if you have it, 7q cure Neats Tongues» Rub them well with common fait, a»d let them lie three or four days ; then lay them in a heap on a table to' let the brine run from them; then mix as much common fait, bay fait, falt- petre, and coarfe fugar, as will do the quantity of tongues; drew fome com- mon fait in the bottom of a barrel; pack in the tongues neatly, and on every row of them drew the mixed falts ; if you have not enough, make it up with common fait; put on the linking board andCh. III. F L E S H. 43 and weights above it to bring up the brine to cover them ; then clofe up the barrel. 7?iake Forced-meat Balls, Take the lean part of beef, pork, veal, or mutton, as much beef-fuet as meat; mince them fo fmall as they will fpread on your fingers like pafle ; fpread and feafon it with mixed fpices and fait ; work it up with a beat egg to faden it; have a little dry flour in the • palm of you hand, and roll them up in balls, or long-like faufages; fry them with browned butter. You may put fweet herbs,in forced meat if you choofe it. You will get the fKh-forced meat in the receipt for fluffing haddocks. To Jleuu a Rump of Beef, Take the big bone out of it; make fome holes in it with a knife ; put in fome mixed fpices and fait in every hole, and turn your finger round it. If you choofe to Iluft'it, fill up the holes with lorced meat. In that cafe, you need not C 4 put44 Cookery and Pastry. y put In thg fait and fpices in the holes ; rub the beef over with the fait and fpi- ces ; let it lie a day or two in that fea- foning; take it up the morning it is to be dreffed; dry it well with a cloth,, and rub it over with beat eggs, and duft it with flour ; have fome browned but- ter ready in, a frying-pan; lay in the beef, and turn it round in the frying- pan browned over; have water boiling in the pot, and put in the beef; you muft not have too much about it; keep the pot very clofe covered after it is once come a-boil; you mufl keep it flewing over a flow fire, only fimmer- ing all the while ; turn the beef fre- quently, as it muft not have too much liquor about it. If it is a very large rump, it will take three hours doing; take up fome of the broth, feum all the fat clean off it; take forced meat, fome of it rolled in balls, and fome long like iaufages ; browm them in butter in the frying-pan : drain all the greafe clean from them; have a couple of pallets ready and fome kernels; parboil and brownCh. III. Flesh; C 5 boiling.. +5^ brown them a little; have fome truffles and morels; be fure to fcald them a little; cut the pallets in fquare pieces,- If the kernels be large, cut them in two or three pieces; take the dock that you took out of the pot, and thicken it with browned butter and flour ; put it on to > come a-boil ; then put in the balls and all the other things^ and let them boil • a while in the fauce ; put in fome ket- chup and cut pickles-; neverMet* the ' pickles boil; lay the rump in the mid- dle of a foup-dilh, and the^ fauce about it. It is very good, although you keep • out the truffles, morels, pallets, and ker-^ - nels. You need not put the forced meat in the rump, ^except you pleafe; but order it as in the beginning of the re*?- ceipt. To Jlew a Rump of Beef with Root?, . \_lt is vefy. goody and not very ,expenjive.~\ ' Seafon the beef in the fame way as la - the former receipt; brown it off in the fame manner, and put it into a pot of46 Cookery and Pastry. boiling water; let it ftew on a (low fire with a good deal more water about it than in the rich way of dreffing it: it makes a very good foiip. Take fome carrot and turnip; parboil the carrots with the beef: they give the foup a good relifh: turn out the carrots and turnip into a turner, or cut them in dices ; brown a little butter, and thicken it with flour ; lift up fome of the foup, and fcum all the fat off.it ; thicken it with browned butter and flour; then put the carrots and turnip into the fauce, and let them boil until they are enough. If you find the fauce not high enough feafoned from the foup, put in more fait and fpices and fome ketchup; throw an onion or two into the pot, and flrain off the foup ; fcum the fat off it, and put in toafled bread. Difli the beef* with the fauce and roots around it. ^ Beef a-la-mode. Take a rump of beef, and lard it with bacon; cut the pieces of bacon long;. roll them in fait and mixed fpices be- , foreF L E’S H. Ch.lll. 47 fore you put them Into the larding pins ; lay fome timber fkewers acrofs the bottom of the pot; lay the beef oa them, with two or three onions, a fag- got of fweet herbs, and a gill of vine- gar. You may cover the beef with the fkin of the bacon. Put a wet cloth round the mouth of the pot to keep in the fleam; put the pot on a very flow fire to flew, till it is very tender; when it has been two hours on the fire, turn the beef in the pot, and clofe it up again with the wet clothe If it is a very large piece, it will take five or fix hours in doing; but whatever fize the beef is of^ it is enough when it is tender: take up the meat, and flrain off the foup; fcunx off all the fat very clean, and pour the foup on the beef. To pot Beef^ Take fome flices of a rump or a hook- bone of beef; ftrew a little faltpetre on it; let it lie two days ; then put it in the potting-can with a good deal of but- ter or fuet; tie it clofe up with paper, C 6 and48 Cookery and Pastry. and put it in a quick oven ; let it bake two or three hours; then take it out and pour all the fat and gravy clean from it. When it is cold, pull it all into threads, and beat it very fine in a mortar ; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. Whatever weight of beef you have, take the fame weight of fweet butter; oil and fcum it; pour it on the meat, and keep back the grounds. You mud work the butter and meat very well together ; then prefs it into fmall white pots, and oil fbme more butter ; pour it on the top, and tie them clofe up with paper. You may fend it in the- pots to the table. You may pot hare in^ the fame manner. To viake iiiinced CoIlopSM Take a tender piece of beef, keep out all the fkin and fat, mince it frnall, feafon it with fait and mixed fpices you may flired an onion fmall, and put in with it; fpread the collops, and* drudge flour- on them ; brown fome- butter in a frying-pan; put the collops.49 eh. nr. Flesh. rn the pan, and continue beating witlv tlie beater till they fuck up all the but- ter, and be a little brown. You may draw as much dock from the flkins and tough pieces as will ferve for the fauce; drain off the dock; fetit on to boil, and> put the collops in, and let them dew until they are enough. You may put in fome pickles if you choofe them. 15 you fee any of the butter on the top,‘ fcum it. To pot a CdvD s Head, Wadi it well with fait and water; it- is the better of blanching a night, gi- ving it more clean water; break it, that it may go into the pot ; boil it until tlie fledi comes off eafily ; take out the' eyes and the'pallet: take the black d^iii off the pallet; cut the black out of the eyes;-cut the eyes in rings, and the pallet in dices^ the fat parts about aiv inch long, and mince the black part& fmall;^ then mix the pieces all together; take the fat off die broth ; put the meat linto a pan, and all the fat, with a good- I deal50 Cookery and Pastry. deal of the broth ; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices; put it on, and let it boil, flirting it frequently ; let it boil until you find the meat tender, and fuck up moft of the juice until it is like a thick jelly about it, and then pot it up. A calf’s foot or two, cut in the breadth of a draw, and about two in- ches long, mixed in the pan among the refl fome time before it comes off, looks very well. 'To broil Beef Steaks* Take the bed bit of the beef for fteaks off the rib-end of a fparerib; cut the deaks pretty thick; brade them with the flat fide of the chopen knife ; the gridiron mull be very clean and very hot, the fire very clear, before you lay them on ; keep turning them often. When enough fait them in the dilh ; ftrow pickles over them. Send them hoc with a cover over them. Scots (or Jleuued) Beef Collops* Cut your beef in fmall pieces; beat themFlesh. 51 ch.m. them well; take a flewpan, brown a lit- tle butter with flour, put in a row of beef,with pepper, fait, and diced onions; repeat the fame till your ftewpan is near full; add two fpoonfuls of water to a middle-fized diflh. Cover the pan clofe- ly on a clear fire; fhaking the pan ne- ver take off the cover. Ten minutes wilt do them. To make Beef Collops, Cut chin dices of a tender piece of beef pretty long, and about three indies- broad ; cut the fat pieces feparate from i the lean ; beat them with the rolling pin ; put a bit of fat on every piece of lean; feafon them with fait and mixed fpices; roll every one up like a collar pack them clofe to one another in a pot- ting can ; put butter above and below them; then tie them clofe up with coarfe paper; put them into the oven, and bake them until they are enough, if you eat them hot, pour off all their I own juice, and fcum oflF all the fat ;• I thicken it with a little butter wrought I in52 CooKERv and Pastry. in flour, a little ketchup, and fome c-ur pickles in the fauce; pour it over the collops; it makes a very pretty cold affec. when you cut the roll in flices. To collar Beef, Take the nineholis of beef; bone it; rub it well with fait and falpetre ; let it lie three or four days, or more, ac- cording to the thicknefs of the beef; take it up and dry it well with a cloth; then feafon it very well with mixed fpi- ces and fweet herbs, if you choofe it \ roll it up very hard, and roll a cloth a- bout it; tie the cloth very tight at both ends: bind the whole collar very firm with broad tape ; put it into a pot of boiling water; be fure to keep it always covered with water. If it is-very thick^' it will take near four hours boiling. When it is boiled hang it up by one of the ends of'the cloth, to drop the wa- ter from' it; when it is cold, loofe it out of the bindings. You may make a collar of pork the very fame way; it takes al- ways a'little more boiling than beef. Scarlet i k53 Flesh. Ch.IlI. Scarlet Beef. Take a piece of a breaft of very fat beef; blanch it twenty-four hours in cold water: then drop the water very well from it, and dry it very well with a cloth; rub it well with brown fu- gar, fait, and faltpetre; turn it ever day for a fortnight, and then boil it. It eats very well hot with greens, and when fliced down, makes a very pretty cold aflet. To Jlew a Fillet of VeaL Cut off the fliank-bone, and make holes in the veal; after ftufEng it with forc’d meat, rub it over with an egg, and duft it with flour, then brown it. When the veal boils, put in as much flock as will cover it; cover the pot very clofe, and let it flew on a flow fire; urn it often as the liquor wafles. When it is enough, take up fome of the li- quor ; fcum off the fat, and thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour; put in fome pickled oyfters, and a lit- tle54 Cookery and Pastry, tie of their liquor, a large glafs of white wine, and the fqueeze of a lemon. You may boil a piece of lemon-peel and a blade of mace in it; bur be fure to take them out before difhing; give it a fcrape of nutmeg; then diih the veal, and pour the fauce over it. The fliank, or any piece of frefli meat, will make a, very good dock for It. Tb make Scotch CoUoPs, j. Cut thin flices out of the thick of the: thigh-; beat them with a rolling pin», and brown them with frefli butter; boil! with ther dock a piece of lemon-peel,, fome mace, and a glafs of wine; drain it; offj and thicken it with a little butter- wrought in flour ; put in fome pickledl oyders; then put in the collops, andl don’t let them get above three or four' boils; beat the yolk of an egg, and mixj in two or three fpoonfuls of fweet creaim and a fcrape of nutmeg; mix it wuth the: collops, and give them two or three tof- fes above the fire; but do not let therm boil; fait them properly, Garnifh all veal-difhes with diced le- mon;Ch.lII. Flesh. mon; you may put in forc’d-meat balls if you pleafe. Cold Veal, Cut it down in thin dices : take the bones and ikinny pieces to make the flock of; boil a piece of lemon-peel and a blade of mace. If there has been any ' of the gravy left of the road, put ic into the flock; then drain off the dock, and thicken it with butter and flour as a- bove; put in a little ketchup and the fqueeze of a lemon, if you pleafe; it is- much better of a little wdne ; then put in the veal, and give it a boil or two, and then difli it on fippets of toaded bread. ‘To mince Cold Veal, Cut off all the brown’d pieces and fat; mince the white part of the meat Tmall with a knife; boil fome fweat cream (taking care to dir it until it boils, to keep it from bratting); thick- en it with a very little fweet butter knead in flour; put in the veal, and fea- fon56 Cookery and Pastry. fon it with the grate of lemon, a little fait, and the fcrape of a nutmeg ; keep it toffing on the fire until the fauce is a little thick ; juft before it comes ofF» give it a little fqueeze of a lemon : fo ferve it up. 7^0 make Veal Cutlets, { After cutting the back ribs of veal into fteaks, brod them with the chop- pin-knife; flour them before you put: them into the frying-pan; make them of a fine light brown ; make a ragoo fauce of fome flock ; thicken it with, brown’d butter and flour, as in the other receipts for brown fauce, and the fame* kind of feafonlng ; then put in the fteaks into the fauce; let them flew un- til they are enough : fo ferve them up. Broird Veal Cutlets, Cut and beat them as in the former receipt; rub them all over with a beat, egg ; feafon them with fait and the: grate of a lemon ; flrew fbme crumbs of bread over them on both fides; pourCh.III. 57 Flesh. a little oiled fweec butter over them ; lay every cutlet in clean white paper; broil them on a clear fire, turning them often until they are enough ; take off the paper, and difli them : for fauce, fend up fome beat butter, ketchup, and the fqueeze of a lemon, in a fauce-boat. T"o fricafee a Breajl of Veal, Cut down the ribs of the breaft; break them into fhort pieces, and wafli them very clean; let them lie fome time in water to blanch. You may put in a ilittle milk or flour, to help to whiten the meat; then put it into a clofe goblet with boiling water; put in a tied bunch of parfley, a blade of mace, and fome Iemon-peel with it; let the meat boil ender; caft fome yolks of eggs, and nix a little cream, white wine, fome fait, he ferape of a nutmeg, and the fqueeze 3f a lemon with them ; thicken fome 3f the broth the meat is boiled in with a very little fweet butter knead in fluur; and when it boils, flir it in gradually among the eggs; take the meat quite away58 Cookery and Pastry. away from the brolh, and put ic Into the fauce-pan; pour the fauce on it un-- til it thicken ; but be fure never to let:! any thing come a-boll that eggs are in„| elfe it will curdle the fauce. You may fricafee any white meat in.l the fame way; fuch as lamb, chickens,.] rabbits, tripe, pallets, and kernels, &c. To make Veal Fricandos, Cut the back-ribs, keeping two of I them together ; make a Itock of the.l fliank, neck, and any courfe pieces make up a faggot of fweet herbs, winter|| favory, thyme, and parfley; put it inco^ the dock, with a few onions, fome le- mon-peel, whole pepper, a little white: wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, a fewJcj cloves, and a blade of mace. If youJl), choofe, you may put in an anchovy.lcr When the dock is enough, drain it ofF,|ij] and thicken it with butter knead in flour; Jo., when it comes a-boil, put in the dakes,||jj and dew them on a flow fire. When|(f, you difh it, put in any kind of pickles|ru' or:Flesh. Ch. III. I or not as you pleafe; be fare to brown the ribs in the frying-pan before you put them into the fauce. To make Veal Olives. Take ten or twelve veal collops, cut them thin, and a good deal longer than broad; rub them all over with an egg; then cover them all over with forc’d meat; roll them up, and pack them clofe to one another, in any thing that will hold them, and fire them in the oven; when they are enough, lay them neatly in the difh, putting a ragoo of pallets and kernels over them. To drefs a Calf s Head. After fcalding and wafhing it very clean, lay it in cold water to blanch; boil it, but not too much; when it is cold, cleave it quite exadly through the middle; take one half of the head; take out the tongue and pallet; cut off the upfbanding part of the ear; flrike off the end of the nofe; fcore it in fquares; rub it over witn a beat egg; then flrew 3 it 5Co Cookery and Pastry. II it over" with fait, mixed fpices, and crumbs of bread ; lay pieces of butter upon it, and put it before the fire to brown, bafting it frequently with the butter. Remember, when cleaning the head, not to open the jaws. Cut down the other half into dices, neither too long nor too fhort; dice off the ear-part round ways, and take out the eye; cut the black out of it, and dice it down ; dtin the tongue and pallet, and dice them down; thicken fome dock of beef with butter knead in dour; feafbn it with fait, mixed fpices, a little ketchup, fbme white-wine, the fqueeze of a le- mon, and fome pickled oyders; put in the hadi, and let it dew a little; throw in a piece of lemon-peel, but take it out when you didi it. If you want it done in the liighed way, it fhould have forc’d meat balls, truffles, morels, and pickled mudirooms ; but it is a good dilh without thefe four ar- ticles. When you difh it, lay the hadi in the dilh, and the other half in the middle; a fi ft ICh.III. 6i Flesh. middle; garnlfli with the brain, cakes, and fliced lemon. make Brain Cakes, When the head is cloven, take out the brains ; take out any firings that may be amongfl them, and caft them well with a knife ; then put'^in a little raw egg, a fcrape of nutmeg, and a little fait, and mix them with flour to make them flick together; cafl them fmooth; then drop them like bifeuits into a pan of boiling butter, and fry them on both fides a fine brown. Lambs brains are done in the fame manner. To Turtle a Calfs Head. Put the head in a pot to boil for half an hour; cut it into fmall pieces ; you mufl have a very ftrong flock of beef; make a faggot of parfley, onions, and fweet herbs; it mufl be very high fea- foned with fpices; put in a little Cayenne pepper; drain the flock from the herbs, and put the minced meat into the flock, D withCookery and Pastry. 62 •with a mutchkln (pint) of Madeira, the yolks of four hard eggs chopt, and a good piece of the lean of bacon-ham ; let all boil together until the head is tender, and the gravy well-foked in; then take out the ham ; have a fricafee- fauce ready to pour on it; give it a tofs on the fire to mix it: the garnifhing is a palle round the difli. 'To pot a Calf^s Head, Eoil it about half an hour ; flice as many round pieces off the ear as you can ; cut out the black of the eyes, and flice them into rings ; cut the fkinny ]fieces about an inch long, and (bme a little longer ; fome about the breadth of a firaw, and fome of them broader; cut the flefhy parts of the head [pretty fmall; have fome beef-Hock; boil a blade of mace, a little lemon-peel, and a iprig of winter favory in it; llrain it oif; clarify ic with the white of eggs, and run it through a jelly-bag; cut the pallet into I'mall fquarcs ; put all the meat in the Hock, and fcafon it with a little63 Ch.III. Flesh. little white pepper and fait; let it boil until the flock is well-focked in; put a little of the thinnefl of it into the bot- tom of a flone bowl, and let it cool; take fome pickled bitroot and pickled cucumber; cut them in fuch fhapes as that you can lay them in the form of a flower on the jelly, that is, in the bot- tom of the bowlj lay a tire of the flew- meat over it: as you lift the meat, pick out the rounds of the ears and eyes, and lay them aflde on a plate; lay on fome more of th^ meat, until there is about the half of it'in; then take the rounds of the ears and the eyes chat you kept out, and flip them down edge-ways as near to the fide of the bowl as you can; let there be a little diftance between every round; put in the reft of the meat round the edge of the bowl; put fliced bitroot and kidney-beans, or any thing that is green at the time, about with the bitroot, or any thing that is Ihowy ; it muft be thoroughly cold before it is turned cut of the bowl. If it does not come eal.ly out, put the bowl into warm D 2 water,C4 Cookery and Pastry. water, but let it (land very fliort time in the water; then turn it out on your difli. To make Mutton Cutlets. _ Cut the back-ribs or loin of mutton into flakes, and beat them with the chopping-knife; brown them in a fry- ■ ing-pan; then drew crumbs of bread over them; feafon them with fait and fpices; have as much good dock as will cover the dakes; put a little ketchup in the fauce; it is much better of a little red wine; when the fauce comes a-boil, put the dakes into a clofe pan ; let them dew until they are enough. In cafe the fauce be not thick enough with the* bread, put in a little butter wrought in flour; drew fome cut pickles on the* flakes when you-difli them. To haJJd Cold Mutton, Cut the mutton down in thin dices break the bones, and take any pieces of' the mutton that does not go into the; hafli; it makes the dock the better.. YouiFlesh. Ch. III. 65 You may boil an onion or two in it. When the flock is ready, thicken it with brown’d butter and flour; put in a little ketchup and fome fait and fpices; when the faiice is boiled, throw in the halh, and let it get two or three quick boils. If there was any of the cold gra- vy left, put it into the fauce, taking care not to put in any of the fat along wdth it. All haflies are much the better of cut pickles in them. Difli it on fippits of toafted bread. Cold roaft beef or lamb may be haflied in the fame man- ner. To make a Haricot of Mutton^ After cutting off the flap of a loin of mutton, cut the reft into flakes, and beat them with the chopping-knife; brown them in a frying-pan ; lay them on a difli, and feafon them with fait and fpices on both fides; have fome carrots and turnips turned; if you have not a turner, cut them into fquares; be fure that the carrots are parboiled before you cut them ; have as much flock as will D 3 cover66 Cookery and Pastry. cover the meat and roots; thicken it with brown’d butter and flour ; then put in the flakes, carrot, and turnip, and all the gravy that runs from the flakes, into a clofe pan, and let them flew until they are enough ; lay the flakes in a foup-dilh, and the roots and fauce over them. 'To drefs a DiJ!d of Mutton %vith Paper in place of Coals, uuhicJo is thought to eatfweeter than ^juhen done on the com^ mon Fire» Cut down the back-ribs in flakes, and flat them with a chopping-knife; pare fome turnip, and flice them very thin ; flice alfo fome bread and an onion or two very thin; mix the turnip, bread, |i and onion together; feafon the flakes 1^ with a little laic and fpices; lay a row jl of the flakes in the bottom of a ne- cromancer*, then a row of the bread lu and roots, and fo continue until it is liri full; tie the necromancer by the handles I be- I * A necromancer is a Sat white-iron pan, with two I handler, and a lid that checks in very ciofe. ^ IH 4 iu between two chairs ; have a tca-kettle of boiling water; fill up the pan with it, and put on the lid very clofe ; have ready feme wahe-paper dripped through your hand; light one piece after ano- ther, and hold it below the bottom of the pan, moving the lighted paper back- wards and forwards, and it will be rea- dy in lefs than a quarter of an hour. Send it to the table in the necromancer, with a plate below it. boil a Leg of Lamb nvith Cabbage or Cauliflo%!oer. Cut off the loin, and boil the gigot; cut the loin into flakes, and fry them of a fin^ browm ; put the boiled lamb in the middle of the dilh ; put a fried flake, and a little young cabbage or cau- liflower for each flake, round the boil- ed lamb; pour fome beat-butter over it; take care not to boil the lamb too much. Lamb covered with Rice, Half roaft a fore-leg of lamb \ cut itCookery and Pastry. 68 in pieces as for a pie ; feafon it with fair, and lay it in a difli, according to the fize of the lamb, if the lamb is not very fat, put in a piece of butter in the bottom of the difli and a little wa- ter. If the difli be any thing large, it* will take a pound of rice; wafli the rice very clean, and put it on with as much w^ateras will boil it foft, and don’t take it off the fire until all the water is fuck’d up ; put in fome blades of mace with it. When the rice is thus prepa- red, ftir in a good piece of frefh bu a little fait, and the fcrape of a nutr amongft the warm rice; caft four e and mix them up with the rice, keej out a little of the eggs ; then lay all rice over the difli ; rub the top of difh with the egg you kept out; pi in the oven, and let it bake until rice is firm, and of a fine light brovi Wafli it very clean ; let it bland long as you can in cold water; pari it; cut off the neck, and cleave the 1: To drefs a LamVs Head.F L E S II. 69 Ch.IIT. jufl: as you do a calf’s head; Cake out the brains ; rub the head over with aa egg; liave fome parfley and chieves, or young onions, finely fhred, mixed witli crumbs of bread ; flrew it all over the head, and put it down before the fire to crifp, bading it well with butter ; take out the tongue when you cleave the head; mince all the flefli you can get off the neck very fmall, with the tongue and pluck; take up fome of the water that boiled the head and pluck; put in the bones of the neck, and about half of the liver, and boil them until all the flrength is out of them ; put in a piece of lemon-peel, if you have it. When the dock is enough, drain it off; thicken it with a little butter kned in flour; put the minced meat into the fauce, with fhred pardey and chieves, a little ketch- up, a proper quantity of fait and fpices, and the fqueeze of a lemon. If you choofe it, order the brains as in the re- ceipt for the brain-cakes; cut the other half of the liver into dripes, and fry it; put the hadi in the didi, and the head D 5 in 170 Cookery and Pastry, in the middle of it, and 'garnifli with the liver and brains. T’o drefs Chickens 'with Peafe and Lettuce. \ Take as many good peafe andkhickens as v^ill fill the difh you intend; trufs the chickens as for boiling; feafon them with ibices and fait; put a piece of frefli but- ter in every one of them ; tie up a fag- got of parfley, a fprig of young onions, and a fprig of thyme or winter favory; put the peafe in the pan, with a piece of frefli butter; ftrew in a little fait and fpices ; put in the faggot of fweet herbs ; lay the chickens above the peafe, with the breads undermoft ; fplir the hearts of two or three lettuces, and walh them very clean ; put them above the chickens with about half a mutchkin of water, to keep the peafe from burning ; clofe up the goblet, and put it on a flow fire to dove; it does not take long time to do; lay the chickens with their breads uppermod in a foup-dilh, with the peafe and lettuce over them, and as much of the broth as the difli will hold; take outCh.III. Flesh, F) 6 large out the faggot of fweet herbs; fo ferve them up. To make Veal or Lamb Toojls. Take the kidney, with all the fat be- longing to it, and a little piece lean out of the thick of the thigh; mince it fo fine that it will fpread on-your fingers ; feafon it with fair, grate of lemon, and nutmeg. You may take fome fmall * fhred parfley, if you choofe ; mix all together, and work it up with a raw egg ; cut fome dices not too thin ; cut the bread into any fhape you pleafe, ei- ther long or round; cover them with the minced meat pretty thick, and raife it a little higher in the middle; put them in a pan of boiling butter, with the 'bread fide undermoft. You mufl: fry it gradually, elfe the bread will burn and the meat will be cold in the heart; turn it to the other fide, and fry it a fine brown. A Jugged Hare. Cut the hare in pieces ; put a pretty72 Cookery and Pastry. large piece of butter in the bottom of a long jug; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices ; then pack in as many of the bed; pieces of the hare as the jug will hold; put in a faggot of fweec herbs, and two or three onions amongfl: them; take fome of the water you wafhed the hare in, and ftrain it through a fearce; fill up the jug with it, and tie the mouth of it very clofe with feveral folds of paper ; put it into a pot of cold water; the wa- ter muft not come up farther than die neck of the jug, elfe it will boil into it; as the water boils in, you mufl put in more to keep it of an equal quantity. If it is an old hare, it will take three hours of doing; the butter will rife to the top; pour it clean off; take out the herbs and onions when you difh it, and pour the fauce over it; be fure to tie the jug to the handles of the pot. A Good Scotch Haggles, Make the haggies-bag perfectly clean; parboil the draught; boil the liver very ■well, fo as it will grate; dry the meal beforeFlesh. 73 Ch. III. before the fire; mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very fmall ; grate about half of the liver; mince plenty of the fuet and fome onions fmall; ‘ mix all thefe materials very well toge- ther, with a, handful or two of the dried meal: fpread them on the table, and feafon them properly with fait and mix- ed fpices; take any of the fcraps of beef that is left from mincing, and fome of the water that boiled the draught, and make about a choppen of good dock- of it; then put all the haggies-meat into the bag, and thatbroath in it: then few up the bag; but be fure to put out all the wind before you few it quite clofe. If you think the bag is' thin, you may put it in a cloth. If it is a large hag- gles, it will take at leafl two hours boiling. A LamUs Haggles. Glean the bag very well; flit up all the little fat tripes and the rodikin with a pair of fciflTars, and walli them very clean; parboil them, and what kernels youCookery and Pastry, 74 you can get about the lamb; then cut them in little pieces, but not too fmall; fhred the web very fmall, and mix it with the other cut meat, and feafon it properly with a little fait and fpices ; caft three eggs with three fpoonfuls of flour, as for pancake-batter; mix them up with a mutchkin of fweec milk; have a handful of young parfley, and fome chieves or young onions, flired very fmall; then mix all the materials very we’ll into the batter; put all into the bag, and few it up: it will take about an hour’s boiling. A Pudding of LaniVs blood. Take as much blood as with half a mutchkin of cream will fill an affet; mix the blood and cream together, and run it through a fearce; feafon it with fait and fpices, a Iprig of mint and chieves,.or young onions, minced fmall; mince the fat of the near or kidneys fmall; mix all together, and fire it in the oven, or in a frying-pan. Lamb’s blood is the fvveeteft of all blood. roCh.III. - Flesh. 75 T0 make Puddings either of Sheep or Co\v^s Blood, Break all the clots of the blood very well; run it through a fearce; mix fome new milk with it, according to the quantity of blood ; feafon it properly with fait and pepper; fhred fome onions and a little mint; cut the fuet, but in very fmall pieces; do not be fparing of the fuet; mix in a little oat-meal ; fill the fluff into the fkins; cut them aW of one fize, and tie the two ends together; be fure that the water is boiling, either to haggles or puddings. Juft when you are going to put them in, pour in a little cold water to put it off the boil, elfe they will be ready to burft. When they are in a while, prick them with a pin to let out the wind. Po make Liver Puddings, Boil the liver very well, and grate it down; take an equal quantity of grated bread and liver; cut fome onions and plenty of fuet; feafon properly with fait76 Cookery and Pastry. S fait and fpices, and fill them in the i white end of the padding. To make j4pple Puddings, | Cut the apples pretty fmaljj have*^ ibme bread grated, clean’d currants and I fnrgar ; mix them all together ; feafon I them with cinnamon and nutmeg; ' moifien them with a little white wine; cut the fuet, and mix all together ; put them in the fl^ins, and cut them all of’ an equal length, not too long, and tie then> at both ends. To make Rice Puddings, Wafli the rice very clean through two or three waters; put it on in a pan with a little milk to burft; keep it Itirring while it is on the fire, for fear of burn- ing ; when it has fucked up all the milk, take it off, and let it cool; mix it wdth fome currants ; feafon it properly with nutmeg, cinnamon, and fugar. You may put in fome grate of lemon, if you have it; mix the (uet with the refi; of the meat, and fill them into the Ikins; beFlesh. Ch. III. S 77 be fure not to cut the fuet too fmall for any puddings in the flcin, for it boils away, and makes the puddings eat dry. make Almond Puddings in Skins, Beat half a pound of fweet almonds with brandy, half a pound of fugar- bifcuit, and a pound of beef-fuet; mix all together, and feafon it with cinna- mon, nutmeg, and fugar, and fome grate of lemon, if you have it; then fill up the fkins. To roajl a CalJ^s or LamPs Liver, Lard it, and fallen it on the fpit; bade it with butter. The beft fauce for a roafted liver is beat butter with ketchup, and a little vinegar mixed with it. To ragoo a Liver, Cut it in thin dices ; brown fbme butter, and fry the liver in it; take the liver out from the butter, and dull a little flour amongll the butter, and pour in fome boiling water ; have fome par- fley78 Cookery and Pastry. fley and young onions fmall flired ; let them boil a little in the fauce; feafon it with ketchup, a little vinegar, and fait; put in the liver, and let it get two or three boils; garnifli it with fried par- fley. You may do cow’s nears or kid- neys in the fame manner. 7o make Cake^jelly of Calves Feet, Take nine or a dozen gang of calves feet; fcald them very well ^ flit them up, and lay them amongfl: lukewarm water for feveral hours; put them on in a large pot. When they are fo well boiled that the bones will come out, take all the bones from them; put all the meat back into the pot, and let it boil until the whole fubftance is out of it; flrain it through a hair-fcarce into an earthen vefTel that will hold it; while It is warm, fcum all the fat you can off it; let it (land all night; and if there is any fat remaining on it, take it clean off; when you take it out of the veffel, *cut all the Pediment from the bottom of it; then put the (lock into a clean brafs pan ; fet \Ch. III. 79 Flesh. fee it on a fire neither too ftrong nor too flow; it nuifl boil until it is very thick and appears almoft black in the pan ; then turn it out as thin as you can on ftone plates ; when it is cool, take it from the plates, and lay it at a diflance from ' the fire to dry gradually ; when it is quite dry, and looks clear and hard like horn, you may lay it by; and when you intend to ufe it in jelly, to one ounce of it put a mutchkin and a gill of cold water, and put it on the fire; when it is diflTolved, it is ready to make jelly of. You order it in the fame way as if you were making jelly of frefh calves feet. This is a molt ufeful thing in a family, if it is wanted for the table or a fick perfon in a hurry; for it is as good, and looks‘as pretty. You may put in a lit- tle heartfhorn alongfl with it. To make Portable Soup, Take a very large hough of beef, a a large knuckle of veal, and a good old cock; take off all the fldn and fat from them; cut them clean from the bones; putCookery and Pastry, ft 8o put them on with five or fix pints of water; let it boil on a flow fire till it become a very ftrong jelly, which youl* will know by taking out a little of it ro ll cool; when very flrong, run it throughJl a hair fearce, and let it feule. If there*r is any fat on the top, be fare to fcum it:| off; then put it into ftone tea-cups ; take care that you let none of the fedi-- rnent into the cups; fet them into a pan of cold water; put them on a flow* fire, and let the water boil gently, until the jelly is as thick as glue; take care the water does not boil into the jelly ; when you fee it come to the thicknefs of jelly, take out the cups, and let them cool; then turn out the glue on a piece of clean flannel; keep it turning every fix or feven hours on a dry place of the flannel till they are quite dry; put every one of them into white paper, and hang them up in a dry place; when you intend to ufe it, pour as njuch boiling water on the glue as will fill the difh you want; keep it ftirring all the time until it diflTolves. You may make it I8i Flesh. Ch.lIL it of what degree of ftrength you pleafe, by putting in lefs or more of the glue. You may feafon it properly with mixed fpices and lalt; let it fettle a little before you pour it into the difh ; the fpices will fall to the bottom. If you have this, you can never be at a lofs for a ifauce, by diflolving a piece of it. To rajToo Pallets and Kernels, Boll the pallets until the fldn come oft'them that they are very tender; par- boil the kernels until you can get the flefhy pieces to come off them; fry them a light brown ; make the ftock of the flefli that comes off the kernels ; put in a blade of mace, about half a dozen of I cloves, and fome whole pepper, and a I piece of lemon-peel; when the ftock is I ftrong enough, ftrain it oflP; thicken it I with a little butter wrought in flour, I and a little white wine in it; cut the I pallets in fquares, and put them and I the kernels into the fauce, and let them I ftew until they are enough ; when you I are about to difli them, put in them a I few ' mCookery and Pastry. 82 few cut pickles, and garnifli the difli with diced lemon; fait them properly. Hare Collops, Hare collops are dreffed in the fame manner as beef minced collops; only add a little claret in the fauce. To roajl a Hare, Work fome crumbs of bread and currants with a good deal of frefh but- ter, and feafon it with fugar, lalt, andl nutmeg; work them up with a beat egg;; then put it into the hare, and few up the belly ; draw up the thighs to the* body, to make it as fliort as pofllble; fl^ewer the head even, or as it were* looking over its (lioulder ; fpit it, and lay it to a clear fire, having firft bafed it with butter; beat the yolk of an egg-, and mix it with cream. When the but- ter is w^ell dropped from it, pour it clean out of the pan ; then keep it clofe bafl:- inet with the cream till it is almofl: taken up. When the hare is ready, have feme more cream warm; then take all that is dropped from the hare 6 * ■ andN Ch. III. Flesh. 83 and mix it with the cream ; difli the hare, pour on the cream-fauce over it. Or take the following fauce: Take half claret and half water; cut fome very thin dices of bread, and a little piece of frefh butter; let it all boil till it is pretty fmooth ; fweeten it proper- ly, and put in a fcrape of nutmeg. * • To fmother Rabbits, Trufs them as you do a roded hare ; put them into as much boiling water as.will cover them ; peel a good many onions, and boil them in water whole; take fome of the liquor the rabbits are boiled in, and put in a good piece of butter knead in flour ; then put in the onions amongfl: it, keeping them break- ing until the fauce be pretty chick; difli the rabbits, and pour the fauce over them all except the heads. The fame fauce ferves for a boiled goofe and boil- ed ducks. To make a Caparata, Cut down a cold fowl, and take all the fliin and fat of it except the rump ; mince84 Cookery and Pastry. I mince all the meat very fmall with a knife; break the bones of it, and put them on with fome water, lemon-peel,, and a blade of mace; let them boil un-- til all the fubflance is out of them ;. ftrain it off, and thicken it with a little* butter knead in flour; chop fome yolks, of hard eggs ; put the minced fowl and ' eggs into the fauce ; let it get two or three boils; juft before difliing, put in. the fqueeze of a lemon, a fcrape of nut-- meg, and a proper quantity of fait; broil the back of the fowl, and lay it. on the top of the caparata. A cold. ; roafted turkey may be done in the fame* i manner. i ] Gcnc?‘al Rules for boiling Fonvls, i A young middling turkey will take three qu<arters of an hour; if it is large,, t you muft give allowance accordingly; ii a hen will take half an hour, and a. chicken a quarter of an hour. They are the better of being blanched a while • in pi A 5Flesh, Ch. 111. in milk and water, and are much better of having their breafts rubbed with a piece of butter; boil them in a clean cloth. All boiled meat, whether poultry -or butcher-meat, Ihould have plenty of water, and be boiled on a quick fire; for there is a great difference betwixt boiling, atid flewing any thing. The proper fauces for all boiled poultry is a parfley, oyfter, fellery, or cream fauce^ A Parjley Sauce, Pick and wafh the parfley very well; put it. into boiling water, and boil it tender; drain the water from it; chop it very finall, and mix beat butter a- xnongft it. Au Oyjier Sauce, Clean the oyfters well, and fcald them; then boil them up in beat butter, and a little of their own liquor. A Seilery Sauc'C, Cut the white ends of the fellery in [pieces of about an inch long; boil it in E waterS6 Cookery and Pastry. water till it is tender ; thicken a little flock with butter knead in flour; put in the fellery and a blade of mace, and let it boil a little. A Cream Sauce, _ / Take fome fweet cream; let it come a-boil, ftirring it clofe to keep *it from ' bratting; call: the yolks of three or four eggs, and mix a little cold cream alongft with them; then mix the boil- ing cream gradually amongfl; the eggs ; turn it backwards and forwards to make it fmooth ; put it on the fire to warm, but do not let it boil; llir it all the time: fweeten it a little with fugar, and give it a fcrape of nutmeg, borne choole it 5 without fugar; in that cal’e, put in a : little fait. ^0 boil Beef or Mutton in the juice. To every pound of beef allow a quar- ter of an'hour; two hours will boil a large gigot of mutton. You mufl take care, when taking it out of the pot, not to run a fork into it, elfe the whole juice i ii liF l e s h. €h.lll. 07 I E 2 Veni^ juice will run from it. You may put carrots and turnip, or cauliflower, about it, and pour a little beat butter over the mutton. In place of roots, you may give it a'Caper fauce, if you choofe it. To roafl any piece ofVenifon. Lard it, and feafon it with mixed fpices and fait; let it lie four or five hours in fome claret or lemon-juice, turning it every hour; then fpit and roall it at a gentle fire; bafle it with I the wine chat it lay in; take that which rdrops from it, and add fome gravy to I it; thicken it with butter knead in flour, land a little ketchup; boil it up, and I pour it on the venifon. I To Jlew Venifon, I Cut it in thin flices, and put it into la (lew-pan with fome claret, fugar, a llittle vinegar, and fried crumbs of ibread; feafon it properly with fait and Jfpices; let it (lew until it is enough.Cookery and Pastry. S8 Venifon in the Blood, 1 Bone a (houlder or a bread of veni- fon ; let it lie in its own blood for a night; take it up, and feafon it with fait and fplces : take fome winter fa- vory, fwcet marjoram, and thyme; flired them very fmall with fome beef- ' fuet chopped fmall; put it in a pan ■with the herbs, and dir it on the fire until it is thick ; then fpread it all over the venifon with fome of the blood ; roll it up in a collar, and bind it. You may, if you choofe, road it on the fpit,, or dove it in gravy with fome claret and. fliallots. Serve it up hot. Send up to the table with all roaded venifon a fau- jj cer of currant-jelly. |; ST(9 Jlcnjo Venifon that has been roaJUd, Take fome gravy, claret, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a little ketchup; brown; fome butter; thicken it with flour, and! put it into the fauce with fait and fpi— ces ; let all boll until it is fmooth ; cut the venifon in thin dices, put it into the faucej tF L E S H. Ch.IlL 89 fance, and give it one boil; take out the herbs, give it the fqueeze of a le- mon, and then dlfli it. T'o broil Venifon, Cut the venifon ^into dices of about half an inch thick j feafon them with fak and fpices and crumbs of bread ; broil them on a clear fire, and give them a gravy-fauee. To boll a Haunch of Venifon, Salt it for a week; put it into boiling water \ if it rs large it will take two hours and a half to boil. You may fend it up with cauliflower, or any kind of garden-fluff you choofe,. with melted butter.. Venifon makes the fineft of minced ! collops. You order them in the fame I way as you do the beef or hare collops. To roaf and fluff a Turkey, Slit it up at the back of the neck; ; take out the crop ; make the fluffing E 3 ofCookery and Pastry, 90 of crumbs of bread and currants, a lit- tie fugar, and a fcrape of nutmeg; work it up with a piece of frefh butter and a beat egg ; fill up the breafi; with it, and fkewer it with the head looking over the wing ; it muft be well floured and bafted with butter, and roafled with a clear quick fire ; put a gravy- > fauce under it; make a fauce of fome thin fliced bread, fome water, a little white wine, a blade of mace, fome fu- gar, and a piece of frefh butter ; let all boil until it is very fmooth, and do not let it be too thick. Send it up in a fauce-boat. ^ The heji Sauce for a roafled Hen, Take a gravy or an egg fauce. When you roaft fmall chickens, they look the better to be fluffed with crumbs of i bread, fmall flired parfley, and a little i fait wrought up with a good piece of i frefh butter ; fill up the bellies with it. t Young chickens require a little beat but- ter poured over them,.Ch. III. ’ F L E S H. 91 Ti? roafl a Goofe or Duck, A goofe or duck is the better of be- ing rubbed with pepper and fait with- in : fome- choofe a fprig of fage in them. A.goofe is the better of being rubbed with fait on its outfide two or three days before it is roaRed^ You fait the ducks on the fpit. Difh up the goofe with gravy- fauce, and garnilh it wicli raw onions; fend up a plateful of apple- fauce along with it. \Vhen you draw the ducks off the fpit, pour a glafs of red wine through them, and mix theru well with the gravy. Green geefe and young ducklings, the newer they are killed the better before you put them, to the fire; difh- them with gravy-fauce ferve up fome goofeberry-fauce made thus: Put fome green goofeberries on with fome water, a piece of frefli but- ter and fugar. Some choofe this fauce- to roafled chickens. "To drefs a Wild Duck, Half roaft it, and fcore it on the E 4 bread ;Q2 Cookery and Pastry. breaft; put pepper and fait, and the juice of a lemon, on every fcore ; lay the bread undermoft'in a dew-pan with a little gravy ; let it dew a little ; then difh it, and put a glals of claret in the gravy, and two or three fhallots Ihred fmall; pour it over the ducks. To ragoo a pair of Ducks^. Draw them; and take the gizzards and the necks, and put them on to boil for a dock for the fauce ; finge the ducks, and feafon them within with fait and fpices ; dud them with flour, and brown them on all fides in a frying-pan ; then take them out, and drew fome fait and fpices on them; drain off the dock, and thicken it with browned butter and flour ; put in fome red wine, ketchup, and walnut-pickle, or the fqueeze of a lemon ; put the ducks into the fauce with fome whole onions ; clofe up the pan, and let them dew until they are tender ; fcum all the fat off the fauce, and pour it on the ducks,, and the whole onions with it. Ta9i Ch. III. Flesh. E 5 when To make a Tame Duck pafs for a Wild one\ Knock it on the head with a ftick^ that the blood may go through the body of it ; drefs it in the fame way you do the wild ducks, and you will not know the difference. To pot Geefe the French ^ay\ Put in what number of geefe you choofe to pot; feed them on corn and water; clean out their place every day^ and give them clean draw to lie on ; they muft be fed very fat, or they are not worth doin^. Cut off the legs and wings, with as much of the bread to them* as you can j rub the legs and wings very well with faltpetre, and lay them thirty-fix hours in it, but no long- er ; take all the feam, and drip all the fat off the guts \ put the fat into a pot to boil, and when it is all melted, put in the legs and wings, and let them Iwil in the greafe until they are enoughthen take them up^ and put them into a done jar^ and pour in all the fat on them:94 Cookery and Pastry.. when they are cold, have fome mutton*- fuet rhinded, and fill up the jar, and tie np the pot with leather; they keep a long time. If you eat them cold, wafli off the fat with a little warm water; but they eat much better when hot; they are warmed thus: Put a leg and a- wing in a pan, with as much of the fat as will cover them, and let them boil in it until they are warm at the heart. Let: none of the fat go to the table. general Rule for r oaf mg Wild FouoL To all wild fowl the fpit fhould be very hot before you put them on it ikewer them with their legs-acrofs ; cut off only the feet; and for the rough- footed wild fowl, fuch as black cock and muir-fowl, you keep all their feet on them, clofe bailing with butter ; dilh them on toalled bread, and pour plenty of beat frefh butter over them. When you roaf wood-cock orfnipe^ do not cut the heads off them nor gut them; fkewer them with their own bill; bade them, w^ell with butter; put toafled bread be- lowFlesh. eh. III. 95 low them, to keep what drops from the gut; dilh them on the toad, and pour beat butter over them. T’o pot any kind of Wild FowL Draw the fowls, and trufs them ;■ feafon them with fait and mixed fpi- ces, and pack them in the potting-can> with a good deal of frefh-butter; clofe up the pot, and bake them in the oven; when enough, pour off the butter and gravy from them; fcum all the butter off the gravy, and add more to it. You may put them in fmall pots, and cover them with the melted butter. You may pot partridges or muir-fowl in the fame* way as you do hare and beef; but re- member the partridges, muir-fowl, and hare, mud; be either baked or roafted before you thread them, and order them as you do the beef. Venifon is potted in the fame manner. - To pot' Pigeons, Draw and trufs them; feafon them well within with mixed fpices and fait; E 6 put96 CooKERT and Pastrt. put a piece of butter within every one of them; put them in the potting-can with their breads undermod, and fome butter about them^ and throw fome of the mixed fpices and fait over them put in a little water with them, and elofe them up. You may do them either in the oven or in a pot on the fire; but ' they are much the bed in an oven. To jlove Pigeons* Stuff them with forced meat; have fome good broth ready, and when it boils, put in the pigeons; take the hearts of fome cabbage-lettuce, and quarter them; put them in with the pigeons, and two* or three green onions; feafon them with mixed fpices and fait, and thicken it with butter knead in flour; elofe them up in the goblet, and let them dew till they are ready; then lay the pigeons in the middle of the difh with the lettuce over them, and pour fome of their own broth into the dilh* Tio97 F L E S Ff. Ch. IIL To rag00 Pigeons.. Trufs the pigeons as for boiling, and feafori them within with fpices and fait brown fome butter in a frying-pan; dufl; the pigeons with flour ;• put them in the frying-pan, and make them of a fine brown; turn them often in the pan until they are alike browned; take them out, and lay them on a difli. You may make a very rich flock of the gizzards, pinions, livers, and hearts; wafli them very clean, and put them on with fome water, an onion, a faggot of parfley, and winter favory; let all boil until the ftrength is out of them; flrain it ofF, and turn it into a clean pan, keeping back the grounds; thicken it with browned butter and flour, and put in fome red wine ; feafon it with fait and fpices, a little ketchup, and truffles and morels, if you choofe : Put the pigeons in a flew-pan, and let them flew on a flow fire; difli them neatly with their fhoulders outmoft, putting one in the- middlei cut fome pickles, and mix them93 Cookery and Pastry\ in the faiice, and pour it on them. If it is the feafon for afparagus, it looks very pretty to put a few between every pigeon, with the tops outmoft. To broil Pigeons whole, > Seafon them* within with fplces and fait; tie the llcin about the neck very elofe with a thread; put a piece of butter within them, and about half a fpoonful of water; tie their feet and vent clofe up, fo that the liquor will not get out; let the gridiron be quite hot, and on a very clear fire; turn them often, to keep them from burning, until you find them throughly done; be fure never to bafte any thing with butter upon the gridiron, becaufe it both fmokes and burns it ; do not cut the threads from the neck and feet till they aredilh- ed ; lay them neatly in the diih, and pour beat-butter over them ; they are very juicy done in this way. When you broil the pigeons open, fplit them down the back; make the breail; as flat ascii. nr.. 99^ F L E S H‘. as you can, and turn in the legs ; be* fure to fet the gridiron at a good dillaiice* from the fire. Difgulfed Pigeons.. Seafon them with fpices and fait;, make puffed pafte; roll it out pretty thick; cut it in as many pieces as you^ have pigeons; roll the pafie about every pigeon; tie each of them in a cloth by itfelf, and put them into a pot of boil^ ing water; they will take more than an hour’s boiling; take them out of tha cloths, and difh them.. ud Pigeon Dumpling^. Seafon the pigeons as high as for por- ting; make puffed pafte, and roll it out round, and about an inch chick.; lay a. clean cloth, in a bowel, and the pafie above it; put in the pigeons with their breads to the bottom of the bowel; put a piece of butter within every pigeon fold the pafte round the pigeons, and tiec N loo CoOKERyand PASTRYr tie the cloth tight about them ; they will take at leaft two hours to boil. For all boiled puddings and dumplings, be fure the pot is boiling before you put them in, and turn them frequently in the pot while boiling. For a change,, you may drefs pigeons in the fame way as you do fried chicken. When yon cut them, blanch them a little in warm water. Jlenju cold roajled Wild Fowl or Hare\ Cut down the - wild fowl or hare in joints; brown fome crumbs of bread in butter; put them into fome boiling ftock with fome red wine; feafon it with fait and fpiees ; then put in the cold fowl or hare; let it get two or three boils, fo as to warm it thoroughly. If it is partridges, give it white wine in place of red. If you have no ftock made of beef by you, break the bones of the meat you are cutting down, and put it on with fome water, and an onion or two, and draw all the ftrength out of it> This makes a good ftock for any haftiCh.IIL lOI Flesh. hafli of meat of any kind. You may put in cut pickles into any hafli when a- bout to difli them. To rag00 Rabbits, » Cut them down in joints, and divide the back in little pieces ; wafh them very clean, and dry them with a cloth ; dufl; them with flour, and brown them; thicken fome flock with a little browned / butter and flour; feafon it with fait and fpices, a little wine if you choofe, the fqueeze of a lemon, and a little ketchup*. Serve them up hot. To Jiew a Neat*'s Tongue whole, Wafh it very clean with fait and wa- ter ; put it in a very clofe goblet with as much water as will cover it; let ic flew for two hours; then cake it up, and fkin it. You may add to the broth that it boiled in a mutchkin of flrong flock and a little white wine; thicken it with a piece of frelh butter knead in flour jCookery and Pastry. 102 put in a faRgot of fweet herbs, and fea-- fon it with fait and mixed fpices. Whenii the fauce boils^ put in the tongue, and:| clofe up the pan. If it is a large tongue, it will take two hours to ftew ; cut feme fellery in pieces of about an inch long; parboil it, and put in the fauce, and let it boil till it is tender. Some choofe % carrot and turnip in it in place of fel- lery. When you difli it, drew ir^forne cut pickles; put the tongue in the middle of the difh, pour the fauce over it, and take out the fweet herbs. To hajh a cold Neat's Tongue^ Slice it very thin ; take as much dock as will cover it, and put fome crumbs of bread browned in butter into the dock. When it boils, feafon it with fait and fpices, a little ketchup, and a. little ofeicher red or white wine. If you choofe it, put in a few cut pickles when you are about to difli it. Difli it on fippets of toaded bread cut in triangular forms, and let a little of them appear ax die fide of the halh. Let no hallied meatCh.Iil. Flesh. meat get more boiling than warm it thoroughly. A Sauce for a roajled Tongue. Slice fome bread very thin; put it on> with a little water, a piece of frelli but- ter, fome red wine, a fcrape of nutmeg,, and a proper quantity of fugar; let it boil until it is very fmooth; put it in a fauce-difli, and fend it to the table,. Some choofe currant-jelly in place of wine; others choofe nothing but beat- butter and vinegar in their lauce, or capers, if you have them. To potch Eggs with Sorrel. Tie up fome’fbrrel in fmall faggots % boil it; cut the firings, and lay the fag- gots round the difh neatly; fpread them a little, leaving a fpace between every faggot ; cut fome toafted bread long- ways, and put a piece between every bunch of the forrelpotch fome eggs ver]5104 Cookery and Pastry. C very nicely; take them carefully out, and drain the water from them ; lay them above the forrel and the bread, allowing a little of the bread and green tops to be feen; beat fome frefh butter, and pour it over them. An Anmuhtte. Take ten eggs, or a dozen If fmall % break and caft them, but not too much; put in a little fweet cream, and feafon it with fait and a ferape of nutmeg ; fliredfome parfley andonions very fmall, and mix them with the eggs; take a good piece of butter, let it boil a little in a frying-pan ; pour in the eggs a- mongft it, and fire it, but not too hafti- ly. When it begins to faften, raife it frequently with a knife from the bot- tom of the pan in different parts, to let the butter in below it. It muft be fried on both fides. If the ribs are clear, hold it before the fire j it muft not be too hard done. E■Cli.lV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 105 nnd Onions^ comtnonly called the Onion - bini. Boil fome eggs hard ; cut fome onions in flices acrofs, and fry them with brown’d butter; take them carefully out of the butter, and drain it from them; cut the eggs in round flices; beat fome frefh butter; mix in fome muflard and vinegar; then put in the eggs and onions, and tofs it upon the fire, and difli it. CHAP. IV. PIES, PASTIES, &c. A Beef-Jleak Pk, Take a tender fat piece of beef; cut it in thin flices, and beat it well with a rolling-pin; feafon them with fait and fpices; divide the fat pie- ces from the lean, and lay a fat and a lean piece together fo far as they will go; then roll them up as you do beef 5 collopsio6 Cookery and Pastry. ollops and pack them neatly in the dilh, but don’t prefs them hard ; cover it with pufF’d pafte, firft; putting in a little water ; be fare to lay a cover of the pafte on the lip of the difli. Before youi lay on the whole cover, dip your fingers» in water, and draw them alongh the* edge of the plate, before putting on the firft row of the pafte ; then wet this pafte In the fame manner before you lay on the cover, otherwife it would not join together. To make a Muttori'Jieak Pie. Cut the back ribs of mutton in fingle Tibs ; feafon them as in the above re- ceipt; lay them in the dilh with a little gravy or water, as you choofe. You may put in fome potatoes and chopt fhallot. You may put ftiallot into the beef-pie; cover it in the fame way as above with Huff’d pafte. To make a Vcnlfon P(]fly* Bone the piece of venifon, and feafon it with black pepper and fait; let it lie ^11€h. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 107 all night in the feafonlng ; break the bones.; put them on, and draw a good gravy from them. You may boil foine whole pepper in it; cover the pafty-pan with puff’d pade; be fure to roll out the pade very thick; lay in the meat in :the pan, and put fome of the gravy in with it; if the venifon is lean, take a flap of fat mutton ; let. it lie all night in fome red wine and vinegar; lay it on the top of the venifon; then clofe it up^ and fend it to the oven: it takes a long time of baking. When you draw it out of the oven, fhake it. If you think it has not enough of gravy about it, •pour in more at the top. A mock Veriifon Pajly, Bone a fore-leg of mutton ; take a tnutchkin of its own blood, and as much claret; lay the mutton to foak in it for twenty-four hours, and feafon it in the fame way as the venifon pally ; lay it' into the pan, and fill it with as much of the blood and claret it was foak’d in I ? ^io8 Cookery and Pastry* ,1 as it will hold: it will not take fo long \ time of baking as the venifon one. I To n/a^e a Veal Florentine, Cut the veal in pieces ; if it is a rib; piece, divide the ribs, and beat thenii with the chopping-knife ; feafon them I with fait and fpices ; put a little pieces of butter in the bottom of the difh, and lay in a row of the (leaks; then (Irow in.| fome currants and raifins above the j|, fleaks; lay on another row of meat and.;: fruit, until the dilh is full, and put in a. , , little water. If the veal is not very fat,,i lay on fome more butter on the top of j it, and cover it with puff’d pafte. You i may do a lamb-pie the fame way. Some ^ people do not love fweet (eafoning in !, meat* pies; in that cafe, you may put in oyfters, the yolks of hard eggs, and arti- choke bottoms. Thefe three articles may go into all pies that have not fweet feafoning in them ; but.they are very good without them.109 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc, To make a Pigeon Pie. * Trufs the pigeons as for boiling; fea- fon them within with fpices and fait'; put a piece of butter into every pigeon ; put fome butter in the bottom of the difh, and pack them in neatly- You may fill up the vacancies between them v/ich the gizzards, livers, and pinions ; drew a little more of the feafoning over them. In all meat-pies, remember to put a little water or gravy in them ; co- ver it with puff’d pafle. To make a Chicken Pie. Trufs and feafon the chickens as yoii do pigeons; put a piece of butter in them, and a piece in the bottom of the difh ; pack the chickens neatly in it, and ifrow currants and raifins over them, and lay pieces of butter above them (frefh but- ter is the beft;) cover it with puff’d pade. When it comes out of the oven, have a caudle ready, made thus : Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them a gill of white wine, the fame quantity P ofno Cookery and Pastry. of cream, fome fugar, and a fcrape of nutmeg ; make it very fmooth ; pour it in at the top of the pie, and fhake it well. It the chickens are very large, you may cut them in quarters. If you don’t like them with fweet feafoning, you may put in the yolks of hard eggs and arti- choke bottoms. To make fuperfne minced Pies, Take the largeft neat’s tongue you can get; let it lie forty-eight hours in fait; then boil it ; blanch and fldn it; take the fined part of the tongue, and mince it, and four pounds of the beft beef-fuet you can get, very fmall; take a pound and a half of raifins fion’d, and Cut fmall, ^he fame weight of currants clean’d, half a dozen of apples pair’d, a pound of citron, and a pound of orange- t peel cut fmall; put them into a broad ( veflel, and mix all thefe materials well [ together; beat half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, about two drops of cloves, two nutmegs or three according to their fize, I the grate of two large lemons, and two or I ’Pies, Pawties. &c. Ch. IV. 111 or three tea-fpoonfals of fak; mix the fait, fpices, aifd lemon-grate, very well together; then feafon the minced meat with them; be fare to mix them until the feafoning be all equally through them ; then fqueeze the juice of the le- mon int^o a mutchkin of ftrong wine, and pour it on the minced meat; mix all well together; then prefs them hard into a can ; put a piece of white paper clofe upon the meat, and tie paper on the mouth of the can ; then lay them up for ufe. If you are careful, when you take out any of it, to prefs the re- mainder hard down, and paper them well up, they will keep twelve months. When you want to ufe them, cover the petty-pans with puff’d pafle, and fill them up with the minced meat; nick the upper cruft with a knife ; cover them, and make them neatly up, and fire them in the oven. To make a common Minced Pie, Take a tender piece of beef, according to the fize you want the pie; mix in ' F 2 fome172 Cookery and Pastry. I round S fome fuet with the beef; and mince both very fine ; feafbn with mixed fpices and a little lalt; ftone and cut a large hand- ful of raifins, and clean well as many currants ; cover it with puff’d pafte as above. It is much the better if the meat is moiftened with a glafs or two of wine, having a little citron and orange-peel « cut fmall put in it. To make a Gibblet Pie, Scald and clean thegibblets very well, and chop the wings in two ; pull the neck out of the flcin, and chop it in four pieces, and cut the gizzards in pieces ; j leafon them with fait and fpices ; keep ' the bipod of the goofe, and ftrain it Ij through a fearce ; boil a few groats a || while in fweetmilk; mince fome fuet i fmall ; mix the groats and fuet wich |j] the blood ; leafon them with fait and L fpices, and a little mint Hired finall, if If, you choofe it; fill it into the fkin of the jf neck, and few up the ends ot it; turn f[‘ it round, and lay the pudding in the | middle of the difii with the gibblets iCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 113^ round it ; pour in a little gravy with them; cover with puff’d pafte, and fire it in the oven. 1^0 make a Hare or Muh'fozvl Pie, Cut the hare in pieces; feafon it with fait and fpices very well. If it is muir- ^ fowl, keep them whole, and feafon theni well within and without ; lay a good piece of butter in the bottom of the dilh, and put a piece in each of the muirfowl % lay them in the dilh with flices of but- ter above them ; put in a little gravy or water with them; cover them with puff’d pafle, and fire it in the oven. Warm a fittle gravy and claret; thicken k^ith the yolk of an egg or two, and pour it in at the top when th^ pie comes out of the oven, and (hake it well. Thefe pies fhould always be eat hoc. What- ever pies you fill up, always ufe a filler; for the fauce is apt to run over and fpoil the pafle. To make a Kernel Pie, I Scald the kernels in boiling water ; F 3 make.114 Cookery and Pastry. make forc’d^meat balls of veal, if you have it; it is more correfpondent to make them of veal than beef; fry them ofFin the frying pan ; beat a little white pepper and mace, the grate of a lemon, and fome fait, and feafon the kernels with them ; lay fome frdh butter in the bottom of the difli ; put in the kernels and balls, and cover them with puff’d pafte ; warm a little white gravy, with fome white wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, and the grate of a nutmeg, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs ; pour it into the pie when it comes out of the oven, and fhake it; put in a little gravy alongft with the kernels. If you have plenty of artichoke bottoms, you may put them into any meat-pies. To make a Calfs-foot Fie, Boil the feet tender; mince them and fome beef-fuet, and fome apples cue linall; feafon them with beat cinnamon and nutmeg ; clean and pick fome cur- rants well, and mix them all together with a little fugar, and a glafs or two ofCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 115 white wine; pour on the wine, and cover all with a good puff’d pafte. The pafte ought to be nicely carved out. When the pafte is enough, the pie is ready. A Alar row Pajly, Blanch fix ounces of fw^eet almonds; cut^ them very fmall; pare half a dozen of large apples, and cut them very fmall; cut alfo a quarter of a pound of citron and orange peel very fmall; take three quarters of a pound of marrow cut in pieces. If you are fcrimped of marrow, make it up with beef-fuet flired very fmall; mix all w’-ell together, and feafon them wuth fugar and beat cinnamon ; cover it with puff’d pafte nicely carved out, and fire it in the oven. An Egg Fie^ Boll a dozen of eggs hard, and cut them very fmall; clean about a pound of currants ; take a gill of fweet cream, a little white wine, and a little rofe wa- ter; feafon it with beat cinnamon, fu- gar, and the grate of a lemon. It will P 4 takeii6 Cookery and Pastry. take three quarters of a pound of frefli butter mix all together, and cover it with a carved pafle as above, and fire it in the oven. An Eel Pie, Skin the eels, and cut off the heads and fins ; cut them about two inches long; feafon them with fait and fpices; put them into the difli with a little but- ter and white wine, and the juice of a lemon ; put in half a mutchkin of wa- ter, and cover it with pufiM pafle. You may make pike or trout pies in the fame way; only put more butter in the difli with them than with eels. A Curd Florentine, i Prefs the whey well from two pounds of curds, and break them with a fpoon ; beat a pound of fweet almonds with fome rofe or orange-flower water; clean half a pound of currants; cur foine boil’d fpinnage fmall with a knife; fweeten it properly ; oil eiglit ounces of butter, and mix ail well together; makeCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 117 a fine puff’d pafle, and lay a thin cover- ing of it on the difli; then put in the fauce, and cover it with a carved pafle or bard over it; put it in a flow oven; and when the pafle is enough baked, the florentine is ready. An Apple Pie, Pair and quarter the apples, and core them; feafon them with fugar, beat cinnamon, and the grate of a lemon. If you would have a very rich apple pie, put in fome flon’d raifins, blanch’d al- mons,citron, and orange-peel cut down; cover them with puff’d pafle. Don’t be fparing of fugar to any fruit pie. An Apple Fie 'ivith Potatoes, Boll fome potatoes; pair and cut fome apples; lay a row of apples in the diih, and a row of potatoes above them ; then put fome pieces of freflh butter above the potatoes; put apples, potatoes,.and but- ter alternately, until the pie is filled up; fweeten it to your tafle; take rather more apples, than potatoes; it is much F 5 betterI ii8 Cookery and Pastry. better of having a little citron and o- range-peel in it; put a little water in all apple pies ; cover it with puff’d pafte. A Chefnut Pie, Scald the chefnuts, and take off the fkins ; blanch fbme almonds; pare and quarter fome apples; put fome^ frefli > butter in the bottom of the difh ; lay in a row of chefnuts, a row of apples, and a row of almonds, with cut citron and orange-peel, and flrew in fugar between the rows; put fome more frelh butter on the top of it, and cover it with puft’d pafle. A Goof cherry Pie, Cover the difh with pafle ; pick the goofeberries, and lay them in the difh with plenty of fugar (you can fcarcely i make a goofeberry pie too fweec)^ and i put in a little water. If you want it rich, j put in citron and orange-peel; cover it : with puff’d pafle. If you eat any of I thefe fruit pies cold, cut oflf the cover, | and pour cream over them* To 1 jCh. IV. PrEs, Pasties, &c. rif make Puffed Pajle. For one pound of flower allow three quarters of a pound of butter ; mix in about the fourth part of the butter a- mongfl the floury wet it with cold wa- ter,; then work it until it is very fmooth ; cut the pafte through with a knife. If it is fmooth in the heart, it is enough knead ; roll it out long ways, and put the butter on it in fmall pieces ; then fliake fome dry flour on it; fold the two ends of it together ; then roll it out a little again, and \mi on butter and flo\ir as above, and continue fo do- ing till all the butter is taken up; the ofcener it is folded, the more divifions will there be Jn the pafte. Moft people put eggs in their puff’d pafte. It does very well when it is to be eat hot; but when eat cold, it makes it very tough and hard. A common Pie Pajie, With a pound of flour mix half a pound of butter; wet it with cold w^a- F b ter^120 Cookery and Pastry. ter, and work it very fmooth ; roll it out for any ufe you intend it. To make Fojle for the Cafes of prefrvcd Tarts, Take a pound of flower; grate in a little fugar, and mix it with fix ounces of freili butter ; wet itvvith cold water; work it very fmooth, and roll it out equal, but not too thick; divide the pafle; take the one half, and cut tops ibr the.tarts; and cut them into figures with a pen*knife; line the petty-pans with the other half; prick them with a pin, to keep them from bliflering in the oven; put the carved tops on cro- cants to fire. If you have none, you mufl put each of them feparately on a piece of paper ; they mull be fired in a flow oven, elfe they will difcolour. K- very family fliould ha've fome by them, for they keep a long time, and make a ready diih, as yon have nothing more to do but fill ihem up with your pre- ierved fruit, and lay the tops on them. You will get crocants and cutters for the topsCh. IV. %PiEs, Pasties, &c. J21 tops out of any white-iron fnniths : they are much neater and quicker than cut- ting with a knife. ^ Pajle for raifed Pies, For two pounds of flour take a pound of butter, and boil it in a mutchkin of water; pour the butter and water into the flour, keeping back the fediment ; then w^ork it up to a pafle, and before it is cold, raife it up to any lliape you pleafe. if the pafle is not wet enough, boil a little more water, and put it in. To make Apple Tarts, Pare fome apples; cut them pretty fmall, and put them in as much cold water as will cover them. If you have a piece of lemon-peel, flured it fmall, and put it in amongft them ; let them boil until they are quite to a mafh ; turn I them often in the pan ; Iweeten them, I and give them a boil after the fugar is I in ; mix in fome beat cinnamon when ■ they come off the fire ; and when they I are cold, put them in your petty-pans, I. andCookery and Pastry. 122 and cover them with open paftc, or bar- red over : when the parte is rtred, they are enough. Goojeberry Tarts, Scald the goofeberrles, but don’t let them boil; then cover the petty-pans with parte i when the berries are cold, , put them in the pans with a good deal of fugar below and above them, and cover them in the fame way as the apple ones. Cherry Tarts, Stone the cherries; and for each pound of them cake three quarters of a pound of fugar ; wet it with a gill of water; boil and fcum it; then put in the cherries, and let them boil fome time j when they are cold, fill up the petty-pans, and cover them as the for- mer. To make Rajherry or Currant Tarts, Pick the currants from the rtalks; put L a good deal of fugar above and below Iji them pi iCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 123 them ; be Pure to give them loaf-fugar,, for coarfe fugar fpoils both the tafte and colour; cover them, and fire them iu the oven. To make Prune Tarts. Strew the prunes with water, claret, and a proper quantity of fugar ; ftone fome of them, and keep Tome of them vinfton’d ; put them wdth the liquor they were ftewed in into the pans ; co- ver them, and fire them in the oven. You may keep out the wine, if you choofe; but they are much the better of it. Peach or Apricot Tarts. Take the peaches or apricots before , they are quite ripe; ftone and pare them;, you may cut them in quarters or halves j put a good deal of beat loaf-fugar in the bottom of the pan ; lay in the fruit amongft it; ftir them often on the fire ^ let them boil a little while, and when cold, put them into the petty-pans, and I the Ijrup alongft with them ; cover I themCoo KFRY and Pastry; them with puff’d paffe, but not open \n the top as the other tarts are, becaufe they take more firing. To make a Glazing for Tarts, Take the white of an egg and fome grated double-refined fugar ; caff them very well together till it is light and < white. All fine tarts Ihould be glazed with it. Lay it gently on the palte with a feather before you put them in the oven. To make a Lis[ht BoiPd PudJuiQ’, Take a dozen of eggs; keep out four of the whites, and call them wdth fix fpoonfuls of flour quite fniooth ; mix in half a pint of fweet milk ; fweeten it to your tafle, and put in a little fait ; feafon it with beat cinnamon and a glafs of fpirits ; butter a bowel very well, and fill it full with the pudding ; take a clean cloth, and butter the part that goes on the bowel very well, and drudge f'ome flour on it; tie the cloth very tight about the bow'd j turn the mouth of the bowel undermoftCh, IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. ' imdermofi; into a pot of boiling water ; be fure the pot never goes oif the boil, and it will be enough in three quarters of an hour. A boiled Cujlard Puddbig. Take ten eggs ; keep out fix of the whites ; caft them very well with ibme fugar ; take a mucchkin and a half of Iweet cream; feafon it with beat cinna- mon and the grate of a lemon; butter a cloth or bowel; tie it very clofe up, and put it into a boiling pot: a quarter of an hour will boll it. A Plumb Pudding. Stone and fhred a pound of raifins ; pick and clean a pound of currants ; mince a pound of fuet; beat eight eggs with four fpoonfuls of flour till it is very fmooth; put in a little fait ; fea- fon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and a gill of brandy ; mix all well together, and tie them up very hard; put it in a pot of boiling water ; it will take four hours boiling. ACookery and Pastry. 126 A plain Suet Rudduig, Mince a pound of fuet very fmall ; cafl; lix or (even eggs and a pound of flour; feafon it with fait, ginger, nut- meg, and a dram. If you find it very ftiff CO caft, you may put a little milk in it; mix all well together; butter a cloth, , and tie it up; it will take three hours boiling. Al Boiled Bread Puddings Cut the heart of a twopenny loaf in very thin llices; boll a chopin of milk; pour it over the bread, and cover it up for half an hour; beat ten eggs; fea- fon it with beat cinnamon, the grate of a lemon, if you have it, a ferape of nutmeg, a little fait, and fugar to your tafte. You may put in fome currants and minced fuet; butter a cloth, and tie it clofe up. It will take two hours boiling, if it has fuet and currants in it; if without them, only an hour and an half. If you intend it for a fide aflet.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 127 half the quantity will do it, and it wnll take lefs boiling. A boiled Rice Pudding, Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and put it on with a chopin of cold milk and a good piece of frefh butter; keep it clofe ftirring on the fire till it boils : if you find it not very thick, fiir In fome more rice till it is like thick pottage; cafl: fix eggs; mix them very well with the rice and milk, and fweeten it to your tafie; put in a very little fait; feafon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, the grate of a lemon, and a dram; but- ter a cloth, and tie it up clofe; it will take an hour to boil. The proper fauce for all boiled pud- dings is frefli butter beat with wine and fugar. When you butter a cloth to boil a pudding in, drudge a little flour over the butter. You will obferve, in the boiling of all puddings, that the pot mufl be kept full of water, and ne- ver allow it to go oflpthe boil; turn the pudding frequently in the pot, efpeci- allyI zS Cookery and Pastry. ally at the beginning, till the pudding is well faflened. ^ Peafc Puddings Take a pound of fplit peafe or more as you have occafion ; tie them up in a cloth not too clofe, that they may have ✓ V room to fvveil ; let them boil an hour ; then take them up, and mix a good piece of butter in them, and tie them up hard; they will take near another iiour’s boiling; divide the pudding in two, and lay the pork in the middle. Send beat-butter along with them to the table. Jl whole Rice Pudding, Take half a pound of rice; wafli It ■wefT in water, and boil it in a chopiri* of fv/eet milk till it is almoil; dry, ibr- ring it on the hre to keep it from burn- ing ; dir in dx ounces of frcfh butter ; let it cool a little; cad five or fix eggs; mix with them about a gill of ivvect cream ; then mix all together ; feafoii with cinnamon, nutmeg, fugar, and a dram \Ch.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 129 dram; ftone and clean half a pound of currants and raifins, and put them in. In all baked puddings, be fure to rub a little butter on the dilTi before you put it in. Garnilh all baked puddings with putfed pafte in any figure you choofe. Another Rice Pudding. Take the flour of rice, and boil it in the fame way as you do the boiled rice pudding ; beat five eggs and mix them with the rice and milk; fweeten it to your tafle; feafon it pretty high with the-grate of oranges. If you have not this, feafon it with any fpice you pleafe, and give it a dram; but when it is high flavoured with the oranges, it needs, no dram; put it in the oven. A l.air Pudding. Beat eight eggs; keep out four of the hites ; mix in a mutchkin of fweet ilk, a'nd fweeten it to your tafle ; fea- fon it with cinnamon, nutmeg, and a ram; cut fome very chin flices of a loaf130 CooKER.y and Pastry. loaf of fine bread ; dry it before the fire,-or in an oven; it mufl not be brown; have feme fuet finely flired, roine currants and ra’ifins floned and cleaned; lay a row of fuet in the bottom of the difh; then break the dried bread in pieces, and put a row of it above the' fuet, then a row of fruit; take the milk and eggs, and put it over the bread in fpoonfuls till the bread is moiftened with it; then begin again with a row of fuet, bread, and fruit, until the dilh is full, and put in as much of the eggs and milk as the difh will admit of; it. fliould foak an hour before you put it in the oven; and as the bread fucks up the cudard, add more until the plate is quite full; it takes very little firing, fori when the cuflard is curdled it is not good; when the milk and eggs are well, faflened, it is enough. - i ' ' I A MarrQUO Pudding. , ' Grate the crumbs of a twopenny loaf; boil three mutchkins of fweet cream, and pour it boiling hoc on the. 3 grated iCh. IV. * Pies, Pasties, See. 131 grated bread; beat fix eggs ; cut a pound of marrow in pieces, not too fmall; (lone and clean fome currants and ralfins ; fweeten it to your tafte, and feafon it with cinnamon and nut- meg; mix all thefe materials well toge- ther, and put them in a difh. If you have not marrow, good beef-fuet does very well; but it muft be minced very fine. If you want this or any of the boiled puddings to appear yellow, fteep fome faffron in a little milk, or dram, or rofe water, and mix it in the pudding; put it in the oven and fire it. A Tanfy Pudding, Cut thin dices of fine bread ; boil fome cream, and pour it boiling on the bread ; cover it up till the bread has fucked up all the cream; beat ten eggs, and keep out four of the whites ; mix them in with the bread, and fweeten it to your tafte; beat fome tanfy, and Iqueeze out the juice through a clean jcloth; put in as much of it as make it fbitter to your tafte; put in fome of the I ^ juice« 132 Cookery and Pastyr. Nfi“ . juice of fpinage with it to make it of a fine green; put in a dram, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and four ounces of frefh but- ter; put all into a pan, and give it a heat on the fire till it is pretty thick ; then put it into a pudding-pan, and fire it ofF in the oven. When you are to fend it to the table, firew fugar on the top, and fliced orange. If you make it with milk inftead of cream, you muft put a great deal more butter in it. Jn Orange Pudding, Take the yolks of a dozen of eggs ; beat and lift half a pound of fugar ; put it in by degrees, and call: it amongfl the eggs with a knife ; it muft be caft un- til they are thick and white. If you have the conferve of oranges, put in as much of it as give it a fine tafte, and: caft it along with the eggs. If you have not this, put feme beat marmalade in' place*of it. Beat,two ounces of fugar- bifcuit; thix all well together, and you muft caft it copftantly until it goes into the oven, or it won’t be light; jiift when it.ft Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 133 It is ready to go into the oven, pour in five or fix ounces of frefh butter oiled, but do not let it be tooiioc when you put it in; mix all well together, and put it in the oven. A Lemon Pudding. Grate the rhihd of three or four le- mons, and lay it to fteep in a gill of brandy; beat the yolk of ten or twelve eggs, as in the above receipt, with the fame quantity of fugar, bifeuit, and butter. You muft order it every way as in the orange pudding; all the diffe- rence is in the feafoning, the one lemon* and the other orange; and wherever orange grate is, it needs no'fpirits to raife it. A Citron Pudding. Slice ha^lf a pound of citron thin, and fhred it very finall with a knife ; ieat and fift half a pound of fugar; boiif^the citron and fugar very well together ip a marble mortar; have the yolks of ten or a dozen of eggs call, until they are G , like 1134 Cookery and Pastry. like a cream ; then mix them by de- grees into the beat fugar and citron, and cad them very well with a fpoon or a knife. You may mix in a very little iugar-bifcuit. Put in as much of the juice of fpinage as make it of a fine green; mix all well together. When you are juft about putting it into the oven, put in a dram and oiled butter, and mix it very well In all fine baked puddings, let the oiled butter be the lalt thing you put in, and let it not be too hot. You may make a lemon pudding little inferior to a citron one, by putting in a good piece of citron cut very Imall an onglt it, and green it with the juice of Ipinage. A Grem Goof cherry Fuddhig, Put on a pint of goofeberries with a very little water; let them boil to a maih,and rhrufl them through a I'earce with the back of a I'poon ; heat ten egirs, keeping out fix of the whites; then take all tiie fine pulp of the gooleberries that comeb through the learce, and beat upCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 135 up with the eggs, and half a pound of fugar. If it is not fvveet enough^ put in. more. You may mix in it foine citron and orange-peel cut fmall, with a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifcult. Juft when you are about to put it in the oven, pour in the oiled butter, and mrx all well together. Ati Apple Flidding. Roaft feven or eight large apples; take the Ikins off, and ferape out all the pulp; beat the fame quantity of eggs, and all the other materials, as in the foregoing, receipt. Thefe two puddings you may green with fpinage-juice, as they look the better of it. An Almond Pudding. Blanch half a pound of fweet almonds and a few bitter ones ; beat them very fine, fo that they will fpread on your fingers like a pade; be fure as you beat to wet them with fome brandy ; beat the yolks of ten or a dozen of eggs, with, half a pound of fugar beat and lifted ; G 2 ' calt136 Cookery and Pastry. call: them till they are light and white. You may put in about an ounce of beat bifcuit, and fealbn it with the grate of orange or lemon, if you have it, and fome oiled butter. A Sago or Millet Pudding. 1 Put on the fago with a chopin of wa- ter, a dick of cinnamon, and the rhind of a lemon ; let it boil till it is pretty thick; put in half a mutchkin of white wine, and fugar to your tafte ; beat fix eggs well, keeping out half of the whites; mix all well together. You may make a millet pudding the fame wav ; only boil the millet in milk, and give it two or three eggs more, and give it a dram in place of wine; let them be pretty cold before you mix in the eggs and oiled butter. A Potato Pudding, When the potatoes are boiled and fkinned, take half a pound of the belt of them, and beat them very well in a mortar; beat nine eggs, and keep out ! three iM7 Ch.IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. three of the whites ; cad them thick with half a pound of fugar ; mix ia with the potatoes half a mutchkin of cream ; then cafl; them up well together with the fugar and eggs ;. feafon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and give it a good dram ; it will >ake half a pound of oil’d butter at leafi:. A common Potato Pudding to be Jired below roajUd meat. Boil and flcin as many potatoes as will fill the di(h; beat them, and mix in fome fweet milk ; put them on the fire ^itha good piece of butter; feafonthem properly with fait and fpices. Some choofe an onion fhred fmall, and put in it.' Put it in the dilh, and fire it below the meat, until itds of a fine brown on the top; cad three eggs well, and mix in with the potatoes before you put them in the difh ; it makes it rife, ,and eat light; pour off all the fat that drops from the meat before you fend it to the table: it eats very well with roaded beef or mutton. G 3 A138 Cookery and Pastry. Bread Pudding to be fired helo%v meat. Take achopln of milk, and flicedown as much of the heart of a fine loaf as make it very thick; put it on the fire and boil it. If you fee it too thin of bread, put in a little more; let it boil ' until it is pretty thick, ftirring it from the bottom of the pan to keep it from burning ; put in a handful of fuet; if you have none, put in a piece of frefh butter ; take it off the fire, and fweeten it toyour tafte; feafon it with what fpices you choofe ; beat fix eggs, and let; the pudding be a little cold before you put them in; mix all well together, and put it into a difh, and fire it below the meat; turn the difh often, to make it of an equal brown; pour off all the fat before you fend it to the table. A Hnjly Pudding, Order as much bread and milk, and in the fame way as in the above receipt, as will fill a fmall bowel to fit an affet; putCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. 139 put in a piece of frefli butter ; pick and clean a handful of currants, and boil them aloiigft with the bread and milk ; cad four eggs, and put in it; feafon ic with cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar: after the eggs are in, flir it a while on the fire to fallen it, but don’t let it come a-boil; then butter a bowel very well, and put the pudding in it; fet it before the fire, or in a white-iron oven, turn- ing the bowel often. If the fire is pretty hot, ic will very foon fallen ; turn it out of the bowel into an alTet, and fend up to the table the fame fauce as for the former boil’d puddings. A Carrot Pudding. Boil fome good carrots; and when they are well clean’d, weigh half a pound of them ; beat them very fine in a mor- tar ; mix two or three fpoonfuls of fweec cream along with them; beat ten eggs (keep out half of the whites), with half a pound of fugar; mix all well to- gether, and feafoii it with beat cinna- mon, or orange grate, if you have it, as G 4 it340 Cookery and Pastry, a it makes it eat like an orange pudding; mix eight ounces of oil’d butter in it, juft when you are about putting it into the oven. j4n Apple Make 9 good puff’d pafle 5 roll it out about hnlf such thick ; pair b e ap- ples, and cut rhiem do^ti very foall; then butter a cloth, ^'nd put it into s bowd; lay the pa^ftc in it, and put in the apples, wrap the pafte about the appks, and tie the cloth hard up. If it a large one, it will take three hours boiling ; if a little one, lefs time will do it. You nniay make any fruit dumpling in the fame way ; currants, cherries, rafberries, apricots, or any fruit you plcafe. | Moft people don’t fweeten them until after they come out of the pot; but I always found it better to fweeten them before I put them in ; for the fugar al- ways incorporates better with the fruit. If it is an apple dumpling, cut out a piece of the pafte at the top, and put inCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, Sec. a piece of frefli butter, and lay on the piece again. Sir Robert Walpole s Dumplings, Take a pound of fuet ; flared it fmallf grate fome dale bread, till you have a-^ bout three quarters of a pound ; pick and clean about a pound of currants ; cut a quarter of a pound of orange-peel and citron fmall; mix all together, and feafon it with cinnamon and fugar ; cafl: fix or eight eggs, and keep out half of the whites; mix in the eggs with the other ingredients, and a dram ; it muft be no more than w^et with the eggs, to make it dick like a pade. You fhould have fmall nets, wrought of fmall pack- thread ; put in every one into a netj» until they are about the dze of a good large apple ; tie them clofe in the net 5 make them all of one fize, except one for the middle, make it a little larger ; put them into a pot of boiling water ; they will take about an hour’s boiling, if you have not nets, you may tie them up in pieces of clean rags; diih them, and G 5 pour4^ CocKERY and Pastry. potir beat butter, wine, and fugar over them. ^0 make Curd-cheefe Cakes, Earn two pints of milk ; put it on th e back of a fearce, and let the whey drain from it : when it is well drain’d, be at the curd in a mortar ; beat a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifcuit; mix it with the curd, and fweeten it to your tafte; beat four eggs ; have half a pound of currants pick’d and clean’d ; caft them all well up together ; feafon them with cinnamon and orange-grate, and a dram in fix ounces of oil’d frefit butter; beat them all well together; hav^ fome petcy-pans covered with pulp’d pafte; put in the cheefe-cake meat, but don’t fill the pans too full; glaze them over with a beat egg and fugar ; cut the pafle with a runner like ftraws, and ornament the tops with them in any figure you pleafe; put them in the oven, and fire them. Ts143 Ch.lV, Pies, Pasties, &c. Tf’o make Lemon Cheefe-cakes, Boll the fkins of three lemons until they are as tender as they will be; but take off the grate before you boil them: beat them very fine with half a pound of fine fugar ; beat fix eggs, but keep out the half of the whites ; call them until they are light and white; mix them very well; feafon them with” le- mon-grate and cinnamon; put in a little brandy, and fix ounces of oil’d butter. After mixing all well together, put them in the petty-pans, but don’t fill them near full, and fire them in the oven. L’o make Almond Cheefe’-cakes. Blanch and beat half a pound of al- monds ; wet them with a little brandy while you are beating them ; call fix eggs (keeping out four of the whites) with fine fiigar, and cafl: all togetlier with the almonds; feafon them with the grate of lemons or oranges; put in fix ounces of oil’d frefla butter; mix all G 6144 Cookery and Pastry. well together; put them in the petty- pans, and fire them in the oven. Tb make Ctijlards. Take amutchkin of good fweet cream; put it on the fire with a fiick of cinna- mon and lemon-peel; let them boil un- til the firength is out of the cinnamon, ' ftirring it always one way to keep it from bratcing; cafl the yolks of eight eggs till they are very light and fmooch; mix them with a gill of cold cream; then mix them by degrees v/ith the boil’d cream ; take out the cinnamon and lemon-peel, and fweeten the cream to your tafte; put them into cups, and fire them. You may put a little wine in them, if you choofe it. To make Rice Cujlards. Boil a mutchkin of fweet milk with two ounces of frcfli butter ; put in two ounces of the flour of rice with the cold milk, and let them boil for a little time together; beat two eggs, and mix them •with the boil’d milk and rice ; ftir themCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 145 on the fire until they thicken, but don’t let them boil; feafon them with the grate of an orange and fugar ; then put them into cups. To make Almond Cuftards. Put on a mutchkin of cream with cinnamon and lemon-peel, as in the former cuftards, the fame quantity of eggs, mixed in the fame way with the cold cream; blanch and beat a quarter of a pound of almonds, wet them with a little rofe-water as you beat them \ then mix them with the eggs ; mix the warm cream and them altogether by degrees, and fweeten them to your tafle ; put them on the fire again, keeping them ftirring one way ; but don’t let milk or eggs ever come to a-boil; put them into cups, and fire them. You may fire all cuftards in a flow oven, or you may put the cups into a panful of cold water ; put the pan on the fire, and cover it; take care the water is not lo high as to boil into the cups. When you fee them faftened, they are enough. To146 Cookery and Pastry. make dear Lemon Cream, Pare four large lemons very thin ; lay the parings into half a inutchkin of water; fqueeze the juice of the lemons into it, and let it Hand one night; hrain it ofF, and boil -it up with a pound of double refined fugar and a gill of rofe- water ; fcum it very well, and take the whites of nine eggs. You inidl noc whip them too much, elfe they will frothe ; drain the whites through a I'earce, and mix them with the liquor by degrees, for fear of curdling ; put it on a very clear fire, dirring it one vvay; let it be fcalding hot, and put it into glades. There is no difference between this and the yellow lemon cream ; only beat in two of the yolks alongd with the whites, and put it into a china difh. make a?i Orange Cream, Pare the rhind off three bitter oran-* ges ; lay it in half a mutchkin of wa- ter ; let it lie until it has a fine flavour of the rhind ; fiiueeze the juice of the orangesCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. H7 To oranges into it; firaln it off, and boil it up with half a pound of double re- fined fugar ; caO; the yolks of fix eggs with the fugar, and mix in the liquor by degrees; fet it on the fire, and llir it one way until it is fcalding hot. You may put .it into cups, glaffes, or a china affet. To make Ratafia Cream, Boil four laural bay leaves in a cho- pin of cream ; beat the yolks of fix eggs ; keep out a little of the cream when cold, and mix it with the beat eggs ; then mix in the warm cream a- mongft the eggs by degrees ; put it on the fire, and keep it Itirring one way ; let it be fcalding hot, but not boiling : take out the leaves, and fwecten it to your tafie. If you have not laural bay leaves, blanch and beat a few bitter almonds ; wet them with a little cream as you beat them, to keep them from oiling ; mix the cold cream with the al- monds ; thrulf them through a fearce, and mix them in with the eggs.148 Cookery and Pastry. To make Street Almond Cream, Boll a chopln of cream with cinna- mon and lemon peel ; blanch and beat half a pound of fweet almonds ; wet them* with a little rofe water as you beat them ; beat the whites of eight eggs very well ; mix them with the al- monds, and' thruft them through a fearce ; mix in the boil’d cream gra- dually amongll: them, and put them on the fire, Birring it one way ; make it fcalding hot, but don’t let it boil; fweet- en it to your talle, taking out the (lick of cinnamon and the lemon peel. You may put thefe two creams either into clips or china dilbcs. To make Clouted Cream, Take four pints of new milk ; fet it on a clear fire, and fiir it now and then : ivhenever it comes a boil take it offi, and put it into broad diflies to cool ; flir it about in the diflies for fome time after it is turned out of the pan \ fet it in a cool place, and let it Hand twenty- four149 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. four hours; then fcum ofF the clouts ■with a Ikimmer, and lay it on the difli 3 put fweet cream about it, and ftrew cinnamon and fugar over it. Spanifh cream is made of the brats thus: Take the brats, and beat them welTin a bo.wel with a fpoon, with fome fine fugar and a little rofe-water : it muft be beat un- til it is very thick. You may difh ic with fome fweet cream about it. If you have plenty of brats, you may lay a row of them and a row of the Spanifh cream time about. To make Velvet Cream, Take a little fyrup, of either lemons or oranges, or any kind of fyrup you have; put two or three fpoonfuls of it in the bottom of a difh ; warm fome new milk lukewarm; pour the milk on the fyrup, and put in as much run- net as will fallen ic, and cover it up with a place. To make Steeple Cream. Take a chopin of fweet cream and two150 Cookery and Pastry. two, pints of new milk; fet it on the- fire to come a-boi), and ftir it to keep it from brating ; turn it into difhes to cool ; then fcuin off the top, and put it on to boil again, and fo continue to boil, cool, and fcum, until you have a good quantity of the cream. Jaft when you are going to whifk it, put in half a mutchkin of Liibon or Zerry, the juice of a lemon, and as much fine fu- gar beat and fifte^ as will fweeten it to your tafte ; whilk it up until it is very thick ; raife it up as high as you can in the affet, in the fhape of a fugar- loaf. To make Bandjlnng Curd, Earn feme new milk ; prefs the whey very well out of it; put it into a fquirt that has fmall holes in it, and fquirt it into the affet; it looks jufi like band- firings ; put fine fugar and fweet cream over it. R u/fj Curd, Wafli fome green rufiies very clean ; cut/ I Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c, 15i cue them about a quarter long, and lay them round ways on the back of a hair-fearce ; earn about five chopins of new milk; take up the curd in flices with a fl^imming-difli, and lay it on the rufhes to drain the whey from it, and as the whey is drain’d, lay on more of the curds, until it is all on ; let it ftand for an hour or two, and by that time the whey will be well drain’d from it; lay the difli you intend to ferve it up in on the top of the curd, and turn the fearce upfide down, and take the rufhes off the curd. It is eat with fugar and cream ; but fend the creana in a bowel to the table. Tender Curd, Earn the milk and prefs the whey well from it; beat it very well in a mortar with a little fine fugar ; then prefs it hard into tea* cups, or into any lhape you pleafe; when it is well faften- ed in the fliapes, turn it out on an af- fet, and pour fweet cream over it. All thefe curds muft be made of milk new- ly1^2 Cookery and Pastry. - / ly taken from the cow, elfe they will not eat well. You may garnifli all milk difhes with any kind of fweet-meats you have. t To make Fairy Butter, Take the yolks of three hard eggs, four ounces of loaf-fugar, fix ounces of freili butter, as new from the churn as you can, and two fpoonfuls of orange flower or rofe-water; beat them all very well until they are like pafte ; then put it into a fquirt, and fquirt it on an aifec in little heaps. Take half a mutchkin of fweet cream, half a mmchkin of white wine, and the juice of a lemon ; fweecen it to your tafie with fine Ibgar ; put in a bit of the paring of a lemon, and a piece of cinnamon, if you choofe ; whilk it very well, and as it rifcs take it up with a fpoon, and lay it on the back of a learce \ to drain tlie whey from ic; then fill the glaflcs half full of wine, and fweecen hiCli.lV. Pies, Pasties, See. 153 It; then fill up the glafles with the whiflved cream ; lay as much on the glafles as will (land on it. Another kind of Syllabubs. Take a chopin of thick cream; put in it three gills of white wine, the juice of a lemon, the juice of two bitter o- ranges, and fugar ; beat them very well till you fee it thick; then feum it with a fpoon, and fill up the glafles. You put in a piece of cinnamon and lemon- peel as in the former ; but be fure you take them out before you put it into the glafles. Blanmange. ♦ Break down half an ounce of ifin- 1 glafs ; put it on with a gill of water; put it on and oflf the fire until it is dif- folved ; acid to it a chopin of very fweet cream that will bear boiling; for if it break, it is fpoiled ; put in a piece of the rhind of a lemon and a flick of cinnamon ; let all boil together for fome lime. If you like it with the ratafia 1 tafle,ij4 Cookery and Pastry. tafte, blanch and beat a very few bitter almonds, and boil along with it; fweeten it to your tafte, ^and drain it through a fearce ; b« fure to flir it on the fire, o- therwife it will brat after it is ftralned. You mud dir it until it is quite cold be- fore you put it into any lhape, or elfe , the cream will fiy to the top and the ifinglafs to the bottom. When it is thoroughly fadened, put the diape into hot water to loofe the blanmange from it, and turn it out on an adet as quick as you can. Turn out every ocher jelly in the fame way. Goojebei'ry Cream. Boil fome goofeberries until they are fo foft that a f[>oon can thrud them through the back of a fearce; take the | pulp that comes through the fearce ; le- I parate it from the feeds, and fweeten it I to your tade ; mix it up with thick fweet I cream, and put it on allet. You may I make apple cream in the fame way. | i ( Toli Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 155 'To make Strawberry^ Rafberry^ or Currant Cream, If the fruit is new pulled, take equal weight of fugar and fruit ; clarify the fugar, and put in the fruit; let them boil until the fugar has penetrated into the heart of the fruit: and when cold, take two or three fpoonfuls of it; whifk it up with a mutchkin of thick cream ; then take the wholell of the berries, and mix in two or three fpoonfuls more amongfl the whific’d cream. You may either put it into an afiet or glafles. If you have any of thofe fruits preferved, you may do them in the fame way. To make Rice Cream, Take three fpoonfuls of the flour of rice, and put it on with a mutchkin of fweet cream, and flir it until it comes a* boil ; then let it cool; caft the yolks of three eggs with fugar, and mix a lit- tle cold milk or cream with them ; then mix it with the rice, and keep it flirring oFiC way \ but take care it does not boil. You 1156 Cookery and Pastry. You may flavour it either with orange* flower water or-rofe wacer^ If you have none of thefe, boil a piece of cinnamon along with the rice; dilh it, and fend it cold to the table. s. A rich Eating-pojjet. Take a chopin of fweet cream, half a pound of common bifcuit beat and fearced ; blanch fix ounces of fweet al- monds ; beat them up with a little fweet milk to keep them from oiling; mix the cream, almonds, and bifcuit together ; put them into a pan, and let them boil a while; take a mutchkin of white wine, and call nine eggs, keeping out fix of the whites, and add them to the wine, and fweeten it to your tafle ; feafon it with beat cinnamon ; put the wine and eggs on the fire, and let them come a- boil; then put them into a bowel; pour the cream on the wine, and fiir it about; put fugar and cinnamon on the top. It looks very pretty (luck with diced al- monds on the top; it goes to the table1' Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. n a bowel ; it is a proper middle dilli for fupper. common Eallng-poJJet, Take a bottle of good ale and a mutcH- kin of wine; put it in, and warm it; with a little beat cinnamon; fweeten it; toaft fome thin flices of bread ; cut it in dices, and put it amongfl: the wine ; boil three mutchkins of new milk^ and pour it boiling hot on the bread and wine ; ftir it all about with a fpoon, and cover it up ; fend it hot to the table, either in a bowel of a foup-difli. It is a very good fupper-dlfli. To make Hartjloofn Jelly\ s Put on two pints of water in a clofe goblet with a pound of hartfhorn ; let it boil on a flow fire until half of the wa- ter is wafted ; you put in half an ounce of ifiriglafs alongft with the hartfliorn ; lift a little of it in a fpoon, and let it cool, that you may fee the ftiffnefs of it. If it is ftiff enough, drain it off; if not, let it boil a little longer. With re- H gard 1X ij8 Cookery and Pastry. gard to feafonlng, I. can give no rule, | but to fweeten it; put in wine and the juice of lemons to your tafle, a little of ’ the rhind of lemon, a good piece of cin-' namon broke in bits ; caft the whites of | four or fix eggs, according to the quari-- tity; break fome of the egg-flaells a- mongfl the whites ; mix all together;! put it on the fire, and keep it fiirring and fldnking, not to let the eggs turn to a hat; let it boil until the ftrength is out of the cinnamon ; then turn it into the jelly-bag ; have two bowels ready to receive it; turn it backwards and for--| wards into the bag, unci! you fee it clear, fit for glafles. Calves-feet Jelly, Put four calves feet into a pot with;! water; fcald them, and take the hair very clean off them ; flit them, and lay them. into warm water; let them blanch tw'o hours ; fet them on in a very clofe pan with tw^o pints of water on a flow fire ; let them boil to rags ; then flrain them off, and feum all the fat off the flock. WhenCh.lV. Pies, Pastifs, &c. 159 V/hen it is quite cold, cut ofF all the fe- dimenc from the bottom. It is feafoli- ed every way as the hartfhorn jelly is. If you are careful of turning it often into the bag, it will be as clear as the hartf- horn jelly. If the flock is very flifF^ put in fome water in it: it is not pretty to be ft iff in glaffes 3 but if it is for a fhape, it mufl be a great deal fliffer, or elfe it will not Hand when you turn it out. Jelly for a Confuniption* Take a pound of hartlhorn fhavings, [nine ounces of eringo root, three ounces [of ifinglafs, a chopin of bruifed fnails, I the fliells taken off and clean’d; take [two vipers, or four ounces of the powder [of them ; put all thefe ingredients in Itwo Scotch pints of water, and let them ■boil into one pint ; ftrain it through a Ifearce : when it is cold, put it into a ■pan with a mutchkin of ilhenifli wine, ■half a pound of brown fugar-candy, the ■juice of two Seville oranges, and the ■whites of three or four eggs well beat; I H 2 . ^ boilCookery and Pastry. x6o boll them altogether for three or four minutes; then run it through a jelly- bag, and put it into fmall pots. The patient may take two tea-cupfuls of it in a day. A Hell's Nc/l, Make a ftrong jelly of calves feet or hartlhorn; take a bowel, the mouth of which will gO' within the alTet you in- tend to difh it on ; fill about a third part of the bowel with the jelly when it is cold and firm ; lay in the eggs; melt down the reft of the jelly, and let it be quite cold, but not faftened, and pour it; on the eggs ; take the thin pairings of lemons, and boil them a little in water;; cut them like ftraws, and ftrew them on the top of the jelly before it is quite firm. You make the eggs of blan- mange. Jelly in Cream, . Fill fmall cups full of the jelly; wheri it is firm, turn the cups out upon a china aflet, and put fome thick fweet cream 4iCh.lV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i6i 4 cream round the jelly in the bottom of the affec. This way of making up jelly looks very well, efpecially when it is on a pretty difh, as the painting is very beautiful through the jelly. To dipo up cold Chicken in Jelly. Lay the jelly in the bottom of a bowel as you do in the hen’s neft; take a cold roafted chicken or two, if the bowel will hold them; turn their breads down to the bottom of the bowel, and drop the yolks of fome hard eggs in amongd the jelly round the chickens; then fill up the bowel with the jelly; let it dand until it is firm ; then turn it out. It mud not be feafoned as the other jellies are. Boil in the dock, a little white pepper, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, and tlie fcpieeze of a lemon, and a very little fait; clarify it as the former jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag in the fame manner. You may garnifli with any thing that is green.i62 Cookery and Pastry. Floating IJland, Roaft fome apples ; toafl: off the flvin.% and take out the pulp, and caft it very well with a knife with the white of an egg and fugar, until it is very light and white; cake half a pound of currant jelly and four whites of eggs ; whifk it up with the whifk all one way, till it is fo thick, than when you drop ic from the Ipoon it will ftand ; it takes a long time whifl^ing until it is of a proper difFnefs ; put fome fweet cream in the bottom of a difli; cover the cream with the roalfed apples, and drop on the jelly in what figure you pleafe ; raife the apples and jelly as high in the middle as you can. You may do it without apples ; but it takes a great deal more jelly to cover the'I tream. A Frijle, Take fome white wine and fugar ; dip forne fugar-bifcuit in it; lay tiie bifcuit in the bottom of a dilli, and bring it by degrees to be high in the middle \ rCli. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 1G3 middle; when the bifcuit is a little fofcened with the wine, pour fome thick i'weec cream over it ; let it (land until the bread has fuck’d up the wine and the cream : if there Is any of the liquor left, pour it off. If you have apples, load fome of them, and order them in the fame way as in the lad receipt; lay a covering of apples on the bifcuit; then cover it all over with whipt cream, and drop fome currant-jelly on it. In cafe you have not fweet cream, put on fome fweet milk with a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel; let it boil; take the yolks of four eggs to a mutchkin of milk; cad them until they are very fmooch, and mix them up with a little cold milk ; then mix the boiling milk by degrees amongd the eggs, and turn it backwards and forwards until it is very finooih ; then put it on the fire a little ; keep it dirring, but don’t let it boil. This fupplies the place of real cream when you have none; fweeten it to your tade. H 5 Jn164 Cookery and Pastry. An Egg Cheefe. Take three mutchklns of fweet cream not too thick; put it on with a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, fugar, and half a mucchkin of white wine; caft a dozen of eggs ; keep out fix of the whites ; mix the eggs very well with the cold milk ; put it on the fire, and keep it flirring all the time until it comes a- boih When you fee it is broke, turn it into any fliape you have with holes, to let it fiand until the whey runs from it, and turn it out of the fliape. You^ may flavour it either with orange^' flower or rofe-water before you put it into the lhape. If you choofe, you may pour fweet cream over it when you difli it, or it may be eat with wine and fugar. Eo make a Cheefe Loaf c l Take three chopins of new milk; put i; in as much runnet as will make it cur- j die; prefs the wdiey gently from the n curd; break the curd, and take equal - quantityCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. 165 quandty'of grated bread and curd ; beat the yolks of a dozen of eggs ar*d fix of the whites; feafon with beat cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar ; mix inhalf a mutch- kin of fweec cream and a glafs of brandy ; mix the bread and curd all together, and put a very little fait in it work it all up to a pafte, and dull in two- or three fpoonfuls of flour as you work it up ; takeout a piece of it, and roll it out thin to fry; then make the reft up in the fliape of a {oaf, and fire it in the oven ; cut the fried pafte in little bits to put round the loaf; cut a hole in the top of the loaf, and pour in fome beat- butter, cream, and fugar ; fend it hot to the table. make fne Pan-cakes, For every two eggs take a fpoonful of flour ; beat the flour and eggs until they are quite fmooth ; fweeten it; put in beat cinnamon, a very little fait, and a dram; for every fix eggs mix in a mutchkin of fweet cream; oil fix ounces of frefli butter; mix it in with the ba X-I 5 'i66 Cookery and Pastry. To ter ; put butter in the frying-pan at fir ft ; let the pan be very hot, and put in a tea-cupful of the batter at a time in the pan, and turn the pan round to make it of an equal thicknefs. If you think it too thin, put a little more bat- ter in the pan ; when it is fired on that ' fide, you muft hold the other fide be- fore the fire ; for thefe light pan-cakes will not turn ; double it in the pan ; then fold it again ; life it with a knife, and lay it on a warm plate before the fire to keep it hot; be fure that the pan is quite hot every cake you put in; ftir al- ways the batter before you put it into the pan. To make a very good baked Pudding vallb the fame Batter. Butter a pudding-pan ; put in the batter, and fire it in the oven ; it will rife very light in the oven. When you fee the butter all fuck’d up, and the* pudding begins to grow brown, it is enough.167 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. ^0 turn the fame Batter into a different form. Batter foaie tea-cups, and fill them, more than half full ; fire them in the oven ; when enough, turn them out of the cups on a plate. Send beat-butter, wine, and fugar, to eat with thefe pud- dings. To make Pan-puddings. Beat four or five eggs with four fpoonfuls of flour; cafl; it until the flour is free of knots ; put in a little fait and fugar to your tafle, beat cinna- mon and nutmeg, near a mutchkin of fweet milk, a dram, a handful of cur- rants, and as much fweet fuet flired fmall ; mix all well together; put a piece of butter in the frying-pan, or beef-dripings: when it boils, lay as many petty-pans in the frying-pan as ic will hold, with their bottoms upmoft; put in the pudding-ftufF at -the bottom of the petty-pans. You mufl. fry them on a flow fire, otherwife you will burn ii 6 them,i68 Cookery aiicl P*\sTRY. them, and they will be raw in the heart* When the petty-pans come eafily off] they are ready for turning to the other fide. They eat well, and are a very pretty difli. Tb make Apple Fritters, Beat four or five eggs; mix in as much flower as they will caft with till they are very fmooth; put in a little fait, fugar, and fome beat ginger; you may put in cinnamon, if you choofe ; mix in about a gill of fweet cream or new milk, two or three fpoonfuls of fweet yeft; cafi: them all well together; put down the batter at a difiance before | the fire to make it rife. If you have I not yeft, you mufi give it a good dram. I Pare the apples, and cut them in thin I dices ; take out the cores, but keep the I dices whole ; have a good deal of beef- I dripings boiling in the pan; then put || in every dice of the apples by itfelf a- P mongft the batter, and drop them into || the pan one by one until it is full; fry' r them a light brown^ take them carful- ICb. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c./ 169 I7 from the fat,* and keep them warm before the fire till they are all fried oft'; then difh them neatly one above ano- ther ; raife them pretty higli in the mid- dle, and ftrew fagar over them. Send them hot to the table. 1^0 make Curra?it Fritters, Make the batter in the fame way as in the former; put in a quarter of a ' pound of currants well waih’d and dried. If you have any beef-fuet, flired a little of it llnall, and put amongft it; mix all well together, and drop them from a fpoon into the frying-pan into what fize you pleafe., Dilh them in the fame way as the above. To make Oyjler Fritters, Make the batter in the fame way as in the above receipts; only keep out the fugar and cinnamon; pickle the oyfters; take as many of them as yon want, and lay them between the folds of a cloth, and dry them ; then dip every oyfter in the batter, and fry them ‘ ill170 Cookery and Pastry. 9 * ^ y in the fame way as the other fricer difh them hot, but put no lugar 011 them. To moke Potato Fritters» Boll and beat half a dozen of pota- toes I mix them with four beat eggs, about a gill of good thick cream, ibme fugar and nutmeg, a little fait, a bit of frefli butter oiled, and a dram ; beat them all well together, and drop them in the boiling dri[)ings ; fry them a light brown ; difli them hot, and drew fugar over them. ^ . Yon may put any p?''eferved fruit in the heart of fritters, fuch as, preferved cherries or goofeberrics, or the half of an apricot; be fure to have a great deal of fat to fry all fritters in, elfe they will not be good. Some choofe their apples chopt fmall, and mixed in the batter in place of dices. To make a Tavfy Cake, Beat fix eggs with four or five fpoon- 5 . '•171 Ch IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. fuls of flour; mix with them a mutch- kin of fweet cream or new milk; fweet- en it to your tafle; feafon it with fome nutmeg and a little fait; put in as much of the juice of tanfy as bitter it to your tafle, and make it green with the juice of fpinage; mix fome oiled butter in it, and caft them all well together ; you may fire it in a frj ing-pan on the top of the fire, but take* care not to burn it. You may fire it below meat that is roafl- ing, or in an oven ; but be fure to but- ter the plate very well that it goes in. In cafe it is fired below meat, pour off all the fat from it before you fend it to the table; flrew fugar over it. Poor Ktilghts of Windfor, Cut fome flices of bread about half an inch thick; lay them to foak a while in white wine and fugar; caft two or three yolks of eggs; take the bread out of the wine, and dip it amongft the eggs; have fome frefli butter boiling in the frying-pan ; put in the bread, and fry them a fine brown; then difh them, and172 Cookery and Pastry. and drew fugar and beat cinnamon over them: you may eat them with wine if you choofe. make'fynall Curd Puddings, Earn two pints of new milk ; lay It on the back of a fearce until all the whey is run from it; beat it very well in a mortar with eight ounces of frelh butter, till they are all well mixed toge- ther ; caft fix eggs, and keep out three of the whites; beat two ounces of bif- cuit; mix the eggs and bifcuit well with the curd; feafon it with fugar and beat cinnamon to your cade, and the grate of a lemon; butter fome tea-cups, and let one of them be larger than the red for the middle; put the dud into the tea-cups, and fire them in a flow oven ; when they are enough, turn them out on the difh, the large one in the middle, and the fmall ones round it; cut fome blanched almonds in fmall drips, and dick them in the tops of the puddings ; pour beat-butter, wine, and fugar, over them. ToCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 173 make a Curd Florentine, Take two pounds of curds, and break |liem very well with your hands; blanch and beat a pound of almonds, with a little rofe or orange-flower water; pick and wafh half a pound of currants ; boll fome fpinage ; cut ic fmall with a knife, and fweecen it to your tafte ; oil eight ounces of frefh butter; mix all well to- gether; make a fine puffed pafte; lay a thin covering over all the difli; then put in the fluff; cover it on the top with a thin pafte neatly cut out or barred over; put it in a flow oven to bake : when the pafte is enough, the florentine is ready. Jlew Parfnlps. Boil them tender, and fcrape them clean ; cut them in flices; take as much fweet cream as be fauce, and thicken it with butter wrought in flour : when the cream and butter is warm enough, put in the parfnips, and keep it tolfmg on the174 Cookery and Pastry. the fire: when the cream boils they are enongli; firew a little fait on them. Boil Ibme bitroot, and fcrape ofl’the ficins; llice it down in thin llices ; beat fome frefii butter ; put a little vinegar in it; throw in the bitroot ; tofs them until they are warm, and diili them. <ToJl t-w Red Cabbage, Cut it down as for pickling ; put it in a fiew-pan with fome red wine and a piece of butter knead in flour; feafon it with a little fait and fpices ; keep it ftirring until the butter is melted; then cover the pan, and let them flew a little, but not too foft; for they are better to eat a little crifp; put in a little vinegar before you take them oif; difh them, and fend them up hot. To Jleua Cucumbers, Pare fome large cucumbers, and flice them about the thicknefs of halt a crown ; fpread them on a clean coarle cloth to drain the water from them ; pare and flice fome large onions round- ways ;Ch.lV. Pies, Pasties. &c. 175 vi^iys; flour the cucumbers, and fiy them and the onions in browned butter; when you fee them brown, • take them 'Up carefully from that butter ; take a clean pan, and put three or four fpoon- fuls of warm water in it; put in a quar- ter of a pound of frefli butter rolled in flour; dir it on the fire until it is melt- ed ; mix in a tea-fpoonful of the flour of muflard ; put in the cucumbers, and feafon it with fait and fpices ; cover up the pan, and let them flew about a quar- ter of an hour, foftly {baking the pan, and fo diih them. To drefs Farfmps to eat like Skirrets* Boil foitie large parfnips tender, and fcrape otT the Ikins ; cut them by the length, and cut every piece round, a- bout the fize of a ikirret, and fry them in butter a fine light brown ; take them out of the butter, and lay them neatly in a difli; drew beat cinnamon and fu- gar over them before you fend them to the table. Celery^176 Cookery and Pastry. Celery with Cream, Wafli and clean the celery ; cut It in pieces about two or three inches long ; boil them in water until they are ten- der; put them through a drainer, and keep them warm ; take about half a mutchkin of fweet cream ; roll a bit of frefli butter about the bulk of a nutmeg in flour; keep it ftirring on the fire un- til it comes a-boil ; have the yolks of four eggs ready cafl ; mix them with a little cold cream; then mix in the boil- ing cream by degrees amongfl the eggs, and put it on the fire again ; keep it clofe ftirring, but don’t let it boil; throw in the celery, and give it a tofs up; fea- fon it with fait and nutmeg to your tafte, and difli it. To Jlew Celery in Gravy, Boil and order the celery as in the a- bove receipt; brown a piece of butter, and thicken it with flour ; mix in as much good gravy amongft it as will cover the celery, and a little red wine,Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. and fait and fplces to your tafte; when the fauce comes a-boil, throw in the celery, and let it ftew a little, and then diih it. Zb have a Dtfb of Kidney Beans in the Winter-, Gather the kidney-beans while they are young ; drew a good deal of fait ill the bottom of a can 5 then lay in fome of the beans, and drew in fome more dry fait, and fo continue until the can is full} between every row of beans lay a row of fait; as you lay them in, prefs them pretty hard with your hand, but not fo as to bruife them : when the pot is full, tie them elofe up with a bladder and a piece of leather above it: when you are going to ufe them in the win- ter, take up what quantity you want, and lay them in fredi water fome hours before you boil them ; change the wa- te-r two or three times to draw the fait out of them ; cut them about an inch long; let the water be boiling before you put them in ; when they are enough, 4 draiil178 Cookery and Pastry. drain the v/ater from them, and tofs them up with fome beat butter. When you put in the beans, throw in a tea- fpoonful of pearl-afhes ; it makes them boil both green and tender ; it makes young peafe of a fine green, or any kind of greens, and does hurt to nothing. All thefe garden things are very proper ' for fupper diflies. keep Artichoke Bottoms the whole Tear, Cut the ftalks very clofe to the arti- chokes ; boil them no longer than the leaves will come out of them ; then take the choke clean from them, and the Prlngs from the outiide of the bottoms, and lay them on tin-plates when the oven is near cold ; let them hand a day or two in it: they won’t be dry enough with this ; but you may fet them at a didance from the fire, or in the fun to dry. When the oven is hot at any other time, you may put them in again, and fo continue drying them with either fire, oven, or the fun, until they are as dry179 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. dry as a board : then piu them in paper bags, and hang them up in a dry place; when you are going to ufe them, lay them in warm water, and let them lie about four hours, changing the water often; you muO: pour the laft water boiling hot on them ; cut them in dices after they are foak’d, and boil them ten- der. If you have plenty of them, they make a very fine difli, and they are very good in either fricafee or ragoo fauces, or any fine fbups. T'he bejl uoay of keeping green Goofeberries f or Tarts. Gather them before they are come to their full fize ; cut off the tops and tails with fcilTars ; take wide-mouth’d bot- tles ; be fure they are very clean and dry ; fill them up with the berries, and cork them; put them into an oven not fo hot as to break the bottles ; let them (land until they turn white, and pretty well fallen : when they are enough, tabe them out of the oven ; take out the corks, and tie a muffin rag on the top ofi8o Cookery arid Pastry. of the bottles; then turn the bottles In- to deep jugs that will hold them ; let them ftand that way until the whole juice is run from them, (it is the juice that fpoils them). When they are very well drained frorh their juice, turn back the bottles ; ta:ke one of the bottles and fill up the reft with; leave as much room as to cover them with flieep’s tallow ; melt it, and let it be as cold as it will pour on the berries • let them be about an inch covered with the tallow; therl cork them hard up ; dip the corks and the rings of the bottles amongfl melted bees wax, and tie leather above them,_ You may fend them to the Indies, if yoti pleaffe. To hiake %vhi'te Cujlards, Take a mutchkln of new milk; put it on the fire ; when it comes a-boil, ftir in as much ground rice as will make it like thick pottage ; have ready the whites ofthree eggs ; caft and mix them with the milk and rice olF the fire ; put it on the fire again for a little, ftirringCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, 8cc. i8i it all the time ; but take care that It does not boil ; fweeteii it to your talle with finefugar; wet fome tea-cups with water, and fill them with the cuflards : when they are cold they will turn out on the dilh. Gaft the yolks; mix them with Ibine boiling milk ; feafon it with cinnamon, iiigar, and a little wine; when cold, pour it on the cuftards. To make German Faffs* Take five eggs ; keep out one of th yolks ; take five fpoonfuls of flour; beat them well together with fugar to your tafle, tlie fcrape of a nutmeg, and a very little beat ginger; mix in a mutchkia of fw^eet cream and two ounces of oil’d butter; cafl; them all together ; butter the pans, and put them in a quick loven to fire. The pan mull be only half full. To make Apple Puffs* Stove the apples, and mafh them very I well; fweeten them to your tafle ; mix in a little marmalade or cinnamon with • I them I382 Cookery and Pastry. them ; make pufF’d pafte; lay a faucer of a middling fize on the pafte, and cut quite round by it; let the apples be quite cold ; lay a fpoonful of them in the middle of the pafte; then double the pafte together; wet it a little in the inlide to make it ftick together; mark it neatly with a knife, or plait it with your fingers round the edges. You may fire them in the oven, or fry them in a frying-pan:-they are beft done in the oven. You may make puffs of any preferved fruit or green goofeberries ftov’d and mafh’d like the apples ; you may make puffs of any good thing you pleale, fiich as an almond pudding: if you have any left over filling your difti, make one quite round, or in the fliape of a ftar, for the middle, and lay the femicircles round it. If they are rightly made up, they are a very pretty difh. To make Short Bread. I Tate a neck of flour, and four pounds of183 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. of butter Englifli, or three pounds Scots weight; put the butter on to come a- boil; make a hole in the flour, and pour the boiling butter in it; work the flour and butter a little while together ; pour in a mutchkin of good yeft amongfl the, pafte ; work it together, but not too much divide the pafle, and roll it out oval; then cut it through the middle, and plait it at the ends ; keep out a little of the flour to work out the bread ; flour gray paper, and fire the bread on it: if you make it fweet, allow a pound of fu- gar to the peck of flour at leafl;; if you want it very rich, put in citron, orange- peel, and almonds, and ftrew white carvy on the top ; be fare to mix the fugar and fruit with the flour before you wet it; remember to prick it well on the top. j To make a rich Bun, To half a peck of flour ftone and |cut two pounds of raifins, clean two [pounds of currants, take fix ounces of lorange-peel, the fame weight of citron, I “ 1 2 and184 Cookery and Pastry. and as many almonds blanch’d and cut; mix all thefe together; take a drachm of cloves, a large nutmeg, half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, and half an ounce of ginger; beat them all well to- gether ; drew them on the fruit, and mix them very well; make a hole in the flour ; break in a pound of butter Scots ' ■weight in it; pour warm water on tli2> butter to foften it a little ; then work the flour and it together ; fpread the pafte, and pour on half a mutchkin of good yefl, and work it up very well, ■until the pafle is very light and finooch ; cut off about the third part of the pafle for the flieet; fpread out the refl of the pafte on the table ; put the fruit on it; pour about a gill of yefl over the fruit, | and work the fruit and pafte very well 1 together, and make it up round; roll out the fheet round ; lay the bun on the middle, and gather the flieet round it; roll it out to the thicknefs you would have it; 'run a fork through it in diffe- rent parts down to the bottom, and prick it on the top ; flour double gray paper, and ICh. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 185 and lay the bun on it, and give It a cut round the fide ; put a binder of double paper round it to keep it from running too thin in the oven. The oven inuft neither be too hot nor too cold. iT0 make a Fgu rthwart Plumb- ca ke. Clean and pick two pounds and a half of currants, three quarters of a pound of citron, as much orange-peel, half a pound of almonds ; blanch and cut them all into pieces, not too fmall ; take a fourthpart of flour, and break an Eng- lifh pound of frefli butter in it, the fame way as you do the pafte for the bun ; give it half a mutchkin of good yefl: ; the pafte muft be very light and fmooth wrought; cut off a piece for the flieet ; take half an ounce of ginger, half an ounce of corriander feed, a few cloves, and about a quarter of an ounce of Ja- maica pepper ; all thefe muft be finely beat, and about a quarter of an ounce of caraway feeds; mix all thefe together, and fcafon the fruit with them, and pour a dram over the fruit. The fruit 1 3 andi86 Cookery and Pastry. and pafle is wrought entirely in the fame way as in the bun, and made up in the fame manner. 51? make a Seed-cake, Dry a pound of flour before the fire, or in the oven ; beat and fearce a pound of fugar; weigh a pound of eggs; whiflv the eggs and fugar together until it is very thick and white; have half a pound of frefli butter ready; caft it to a cream with your hand ; when the eggs and fugar are cafi, feafon them with beat gin- ger, cinnamon, and a few caraway feeds ; put in the butter, and cafl: it with a timber fpatalla ; have ready cut half a pound of citron, and as much orange- peel, and fix ounces of almonds blanch’d; cut the orange-peel in narrow ftrips a- bout an inch long ; cut the citron in broad pieces ; cut the almonds in two long ways; break the knots of the flour, and fbr it in the fugar and eggs; when it is well mixed, put in the fruit, and mix all well together, but do not caft it much after the flour goes in ; butter187 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. the frame or hoop, and fire it In the oven. You may drew white caraways on the top, if yovi choofe. A Dict‘loaf, Take a pound of fugar beat and fift- ed ; cad a pound of eggs with it until it is very thick and white ; then put in the feafoning, beat cinnamon, ginger, fome caraway feeds, and a pound of dried flour : fome choofe it with a little butter, as you have in the feed-cake ; but it is rather lighter without it; butter the frame, and fire it. You may drew cara- way on the top of it, if you choofe. A Currant-cake, \ Take a pound of frefh butter ; cad it with your hand to a cream ; cad a pound of eggs and a pound of fugar in the fame way as in the above receipt; when the butter, eggs, and fugar, are’ well cad, mix them all together, and give them a cad ; then mix in a pound of dried flour; cad them all very well until the flour is quite fmooth ; then mix in 1 4 ai88 Cookery and Pastry. a pound of currants pick’d and clean’d, and fome caraway feeds; butter a frame, and put it in the oven. To make fine Gingerbread, Take two pounds and a half of flour; mix an ounce of beat ginger with it, and half a pound of bro>vn fugar ; cue three quarters of a pound of orange- ped and citron not too fmall ; mix all thefe together ; fake a mutchkin and a half of good treacle, and melt it on the fire ; beat five eggs ; wet the flour with the treacle and eggs; weigh half a pound of frefh butter, Scots weight 3 melt it and pour it in amongfi your other ma- terials 5 caft them all well together; but- ter a frame,^ and put it in the oven. This gingerbread won’t fire without frames. If it riles in bliflers when it is in the oven, run a fork through it. It makes very fine plain bread without the fruit, with a few caraway feeds. All thefe cakes muft be fired in an oven nei- ther too hot nor too cold. The way to know when the cakes are fired enough,Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 189 is to run a clean knife down the middle of them ; if the knife comes out dry, they are enough; if the lead of it flicks to the knife, put it into the oven again. To make common Bifcult, Caft a pound of eggs with a pound of fugar pounded and fifted ; dry a pound of flour : when the eggs and fugar are very thick and well caft, ftir in the pound of dried flour and fome caraway feeds ; drop them on paper, and gla^e them on the top with fugar. To make the fame Blfcuit proper for beating to put in fine Puddings, Keep out a little of the flour and all the feeds ; and after they are fired fit for eating, put them in a cold oven to dry. To make Sa^oy Bifeuit. Caft fix eggs, and a pound of fugar pounded and fifted, until they are very thick and white ; mix in three quarters of a pound of fine flour; drop them I 5 ^ ovaligo Cookery and Pastry. oval on papers ; glaze them on the top with fugar, and fend them to the oven. To make Spungc Bifcuit. Caft nine eggs until they frothe; pound and fift a pound of fine fugar ; then beat it up with the eggs till it is quite finooth ; mix in three quarters of a pound of Hour and the grate of a le- mon or two ^ have the bifcuit frames well buttered with frefh buttery fill them a little more than half full, and put them in the oven. , To make comynon Almond Bifcuit, Blanch a pound of fweet almonds ; beat them up by degrees with the white of an egg, until they fpread fmooth be- tween your finger and thumb 3 have ready pounded and fifted two pounds of fine fugar; pound and fift two hard bakes; cad the whites of thirteen eggs; beat the almonds and eggs together un- til they are very light; mix in the fu- gar by degrees, dill continuing beating; mix the bakes with half a pound of flour;Ch.lV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 191 flour; then mix all together; drop them oval on paper, and glaze theid on the top with iugar, and put them in the oven. To make Ratafia Drops, Blanch'and beat a pound of almonds, the one half bitter and the other fweet; beat them with' the white of an egg as in the former receipt; have ready three more whites of eggs; cafl and mix them very well with the pounded almonds ; then mix in by degrees a pound of fine fugar pounded and fifted ; mix all well together ; then drop them off the point of a knife on common white paper, a- bout the bignefs of a fmall coat-button; put them into a cool oven, and fire them. To make Squirt^ Fruity and Shading Bifcuit, Blanch and beat two pounds of fweet almonds, with two whites of eggs, till they are very fmooth ; pound and fift two pounds of fine lugar ; have the whites of five eggs cafl ; mix the eggs 1 6 and192 Cookery and Pastry. and almonds very well together in the mortar with the end of the peflle till they are quite white; then put in the fugar by degrees, flirring them con- flantly until they are thoroughly mixed; then put the fluff into a clean pan, and fet it on a flow fire, keeping it flirring conflantly until it becomes white and thin. Before you fet it on the fire, have fome white wafers ready; whenever the fluff comes off the fire, take about the third part of it, and fpread it on the wa- fers ; make it very fmooth, and about the thicknefs of a common bifcuit; fcore it with a knife about an inch broad, and the length of the wafer; but take care not to cut the wafer until after they are fired; then cut the wafer through with a pen- knife. After the fliaving bifcuit is dropt, the pan mufl be put on again until it be- comes tlfin ; then take the half of what is left in the pan and put it in a bowel; mix four ounces of orange-peel and ci- tron in it cut fmall; drop them oval on the papers, and fquirt the remaining part through a mould. You may turn themCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 193 them round, or into any lhape you pieafe. All bifcuic, except ratafia drops, do bell: to be dropt on gray paper. Thefe fine bifcuits cake very little firing. CHAP. V. PRESEPvVES, PICKLES, &c. To clarify Sugar, To every pound of fugar allow half a mutchkin of water, the white of an egg to every two pounds; call the eggs very well, and put them amongft the water; break the fugar, and pour the water and the whites of the eggs upon it; let it ftand to foften a little before you put it on the fire ; ftir it on the fire until the fugar is quite diffolved : when the fugar comes a-boil, and the fcum rifes very well, pour in a little cold water, and let it boil a little longer ; it makes the fcum rife the better ; take the pan off the fire, and let it fettle a little ; then fcum it, and lay the fcum on a hair-fearce. All the194 Cookery and Pastry. the fyrnp will run from it, fo that you will lofe nothing but the drofs; put the fyrup again on the fire ; pour a little water on it when it comes a-boil ; this brings up a fecond fcum ; let it boil a little : then fet off the pan again ; let it fettle a little, and take off the fcum, and then the fyrup is for ufe. To make Smooth Marmalade, Weigh the oranges; take the fame weight of fugar as of oranges ; wipe all the oranges with a wet cloth, and grate them ; cut the oranges long ways in quarters ; drip off the Ikins ; fcrape all the pulp off*the inner fkins with a knife, and pick all the feeds clean from them; then put on the flcins to boil, until they are fo tender that they will beat to a mafh. When you take thefl^ins off the fire, fqueeze the water out of them; and fcrape all the firings out of them ; cla-** rify the fugav ; then take the pounded fkins, and mix by degrees with the fy- rup with a fpoon, jud as if you were breaking darch: when it is all well mix’d.Ch. V, Preserves, Pickles, &c. 195 mix’d, put it into the pan, and let It boil until the fugar is incorporated with it; then put in the pulp; let it boil until it is all of an equal chicknefs. You will know when it is enough, by its turning heavier in ftirring, and of a finer colour; whenever it begins to fpark it is enough ; pound the grate in a mortar; take off the marmalade, and ftir in the grate carefully; when it is all in, put on the pan again, and let it boil until it is all thoroughly mixed. You may keep out fome of the grate, unlefs you choofe it very bitter. If you fave any of the grate, dry it, and keep it for feafonings. To make Chip Marmalade, Weigh the oranges, and take equal weight of fugar ; clean and grate the oranges as in the former receipt ; cut •^hein crofs, and fqueeze them through a fearce ; boil the {kins tender, fo that the head of a pin will pierce them : when you take them off the fire, Iqueeze the water out of them, and fcrape all the firings196 Cookery and Pastry. firings from them ; cut them into very thin chips, and let them boil until they are tranfparent. As foon as the oranges are grated, pour fome boiling water on them, and cover them up until you are ready to ufe them : when the chips are quite tranfparent, put in the juice, and llrain the water through a fearce from the gratings in amongll the marmalade, and let all boil together until the juice jellies, which you will know by letting a little of it cool in a faucer. It may be expelled, that I might have given many more different receipts for making marmalade; but I may venture to* fay, that there is not many ways of making it; and I have tried, and found by experience, that thefe two receipts are the beft. I To preferve ’whole Oranges, I Lay the oranges into fait and water I for two days,; take them out of that, I and wafli them clean with frefli water; I lay frefli water on them, and let them I lie a day in it, to take the fait out of I 3 them; ICh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 197 them ; then grate or ridge them; put them on in a clofe copper-pot with plenty of water about them ; let them boil until they are fo tender that the head of a pin will eal^ly pierce them ; take them out df the v^^ater while they are warm ; cut a round piece out of the top, and take out the pulp and the feeds with the fliank of a tea-fpoon ; clarify as much fugar as will cover and boil the oranges ; be fure not to fcrimp them of fyrup, nor put them into too fmall a pan. In this fyrup, you mu ft. allow half a gill more water to the pound of fugar than the common fyrup, otherwife the fugar would candy before it could penetrate into the orange, as they take a long time to boil; keep them gently down amongft the fyrup as they are boiling ; let them boil about three quarters of an hour; then take off the pan, and let them hand until they are almoft cold ; put them on the fire again, and let them boil until they are of a fine colour, and quite tranfparent; put every orange into a fmall pot; fill up198 Cookery and Pastry. up the orange with fyrup, and put on the tops; put as much fyrup into each pot as will cover the orange. If you have not enough of fyrup left, you muft make more, as the oranges fpoil when they are not well covered with it. preferve Oraiige-fkins, Lay them in fait and water as you do the whole oranges ; grate them, and cut them through the middle ; fqueeze out the juice, and pick out all the in- ner fliins ; boil them until they are fo tender that the head of a pin will eafily pierce them ; be fure you fcrape all the firings from them; cafe the flcins in one another, and put them into a pot that will hold them eafily ; clarify as much fugar as will cover them, and pour the fyrup on the /kins when it is quite cold. It muft be a wide-mouth’d pot that will let in a faucer; put a little weight on the faucer to hold down the Ikins amongfl the fyrup ; let them (land for four or five days ; by that time the fyrup will become as thin as water. You mull take itCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 199 ic off, and boil It np with more fugar, until the fyrup is of a proper thicknefs ; let it cool, and pour it on the fkins a- gain ; let them (land for eight or ten days, and the fyrup will be thin again, though not fo thin as before; take it off, and add more fugar to it; when it boils, fcum it very clean ; put in the Ikins a- inongfl it, and let them boil until they are quite tranfparent; then cafe them one within another, and lay them in the pot, and pour the fyrup over them ; be fure to have as much as will cover them, and lay them by for ufe. Three or four of the fkins. turned down, with a flice of preferved oranges between each of them, make a,^ery pretty affet. Preferred Jliced Oranges, Grate the oranges; cut them crofs in thin flices ; pick the feeds carefully out with a bodkin, but take care not to break the pulp ; lay them in a flat bot- tom’d jar, one flice above another ; cla- rify as much fugar as will cover them ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over200 Cookery and Pastry. over them ; put a weight on them to keep them down amongft the fyrup; let them ftand two or three days ; by that time the fyrup will be very thin ; then turn out the llices on a hair-fearce to drain all the liquor from them ; add as much fugar to the liquor as make it in- to a good fyrup; be fure to fcum it al- ways when it boils ; put back the llices into the pot, and when the fyrup is cold,, pour it on them ; let them Hand eight or ten days. You mufl repeat this a. third time in the fame manner : it is a. long time before the fyrup penetrates into the heart of the raw oranges ; let. them ftand for eight days longer; theni pour off the fyrup, and boil it up with, fome more fugar; take off the fcum ; then put in the llices, and give them a hearty boil. When you put the llices in the pan, cover them wuth clean white paper. When the oranges have got two or three hearty boils, take them olF the fire, and let them ftand until they are* almoft cold, and don’t take the* paper off them; then pot the llices neatly up, andCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 201 and pour the fyrup over them; be Pure you have always fyrup to cover them. This is a very good and a very pretty prel'erve. To preftr^e Orange Grate. Boil the graced flcins tender ; pound them as for fmooth marmalade; take one pound of i’ugar to a pound of the pounded fkins ; clarify the fugar; and boil the fkins amongO; the fyrup, juft as you do the fmooth marmalade; when they are thoroughly boiled, llir in as much of the grate as will make them like thick pottage; let it get a boil or two to mix it well; then pot it up for ufe. This is better for orange puddings, or any thing that is to be feafoned with 0- ranges, than eyen frefh oranges or mar- malade. You fhould dry the orange- grate as you gather it; for although it is dry, it will make this conferve very well: likewife keep all the pairings of your lemons; pare them thin, and lay them by for ufe. When they are well driedCookery and Pastry, 202 dried, they will ferve for feafoning any thing that lemon-peel Qiould go into. Orange Chips* Take the thin pairings of oranges, and boil them in water until they are ten- der; clarify as much fugar as will cover them, and pour it on them when cold. ' You may let them lie for two or three days; then pour it off, and’boil it up again: and when cold pour it over the fkins. Do this three or four times, un- til the chips are tranfparent; then take them out of the fyrup, and cut them into pieces of what lengths you choofe; fpread them on plates with the white fides upmoft, until the fyrup is dried from them; then candy them as you do the orange-peel. To make Oravge-peeL Lay the orange fkins in fait and wa- ter three or four days ; then put them on wdth cold water, and let them boil until they are tender; fcrape out all the pulp and firings ; make and clarify as 6 muchCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 203 much good rich fyriip as will cover them ; cafe the Ikiris one within ano- ther, and putthe m into a ftone jar ; when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them, and let them fland until the fy- rup is thin about them ; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it; boil it up to a good fyrup, and when it is cold, pour it on the (kins again, and let it lie on them until they are quite tranfparent; take the flcins out of that fyrup ; boil up fome fugar to a candy height; then put in the fkins, keeping them flirring from the pan until they begin to candy; take them up and fpread them on fieves until they are cold. To candy Angelica, Take the angelica in the month of May, while it is tender ; cut away the leaves ; cut the flalks in pieces about a quarter long; lay them in cold water as you cut them ; fet them on the fire |in a panful of water ; let them boil [tender and green; then take them out and204 ' Cookery and Pastry. To and peel them ; and as they are peeled, throw them into a panful of warm wa- ter. For every pound of angelica take a pound and a quarter of double-refin’d fugar; take the half of the fugar, and make it into a firong fyrup ; lay the an- gelica in the fyrup for eight or ten days; then take it out of that fyrup, and put ‘ the other half of the fugar into the fy- rup ; clarify, fcum, and boil it candy height; t-ie up the angelica to what lliape you choofe; then put it into the fugar; I let it boil dry amongft the fugar, keep- I ing the pan always fliaking. When it is I enough lay it on fieves to dry. I To candy Flow err, I Take any kind of flowers you think I pretty ; if the flalks are very long, cut I off fome of them ; clarify and boil a | pound of fine fugar till near candy I height; when the fugar begins to grow I ftiff, and fomething cool, dip the flowers 11 into it; take them out immediately, and 11 lay them one by one on a fieve; dry |i them in a ftovc. ' 11Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 205 To 7nnke Red-currant Jelly, • Take the largefl: berries you can get; ftrip them off the Halks; do not put in green ones, nor the red hard berries that are at the end of the ftalks, for they have neither juice nor tade. After the berries are dript, weigh them, and take the fame weight of fingle-refined fugar; clarify the fugar, and let it boil to candy- height, which you will know by the fu- gar boiling thick like pottage ; take up Ibme of the fyrup with a fpoon, and if it hangs in broad flakes when you pour it out, it is enough; then throw in the whole berries into the fyrup, and let them boil very fad for ten or eleven mi- nutes at the longed; then lay a hair- fearce on a deep can; pour it into the fearce, and all the jelly will run through dir the berries gently up with a fpoon; but take care you do not bruife any of them, for by fo doing the whole will run through; there will be nothing left in the fearce but the fliins and feeds. While the jelly is running through, caufe K cleanfio6 Cookery and Pastry. clean the pan it was boiled in, and turn back the jelly into it: warni it on the fire, but rake care it do not boil ; fo pot ^t up 1 his manner of making jelly referves more of the pure juice of the fruit than by draining: them through a cloth, which fpoils tne flavour and co- lour; and it neither candies nor runs, which in the common way of making it is apt to do. ■ White-currant Jelly. Bruife the berries with the back of a fpoon, and run the juice through a jelly- bag. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of double-refined fugar; clarify and boil it to a candy-height'; then put in the juice, and let it boil about ten minutes; take ofF all the feum that .comes from the juice; put it through a fearce, and then put it up in pots. Black-currant jelly. To three pints of black currants take one pint of red; ftrip them from the fbalks; put them with half a mutchkin ofCh. V. Preserves, P;ckles, &c. 207 K2 To of water into a can, and tie them clofe up v»rith fome folds of paper ; then put the can into a pot of water, and let it boil about twelve hours ; but take care none of the water goes into the can ; and as the water boils dov\m, you may add fome more to it; turn the berries into a fearce; bruife them with the back of a fpoon on the fide of it; then gather all the bruifed berries together, and put them into a clean bowel; pour on a mutchkin of water; bruife them well with a fpoon ; turn them into a fearce, and let them ftand all night; let the water that runs through be put amongft the juice; by fo doing, you get the whole lirength of the berries. This is much better than flraining through a cloth, which both fpoils the tafte and colour of the fruit. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar; clarify and boil it to candy-height; then put in the juice; let it boil a quarter of an hour, taking off the (cum as it rifes, and then pot it up.2o8 Cookery, and Pastry. To preferve %vhoIe Cilrra7its, Pick all the berries off the ftalks, or clip them off with a pair of fciffars, which is neater; likewife the black tops of the berries ; but take care you do not break the berries ; take equal weight of flngl e-refined fugar and currants; keep out a little of the fugar, which pound and fearce, and clarify the reft, and boil it candy-height; take the half of the ber- 2'ies, and throw them into the fyrup; let them boil eight minutes, as you do the jelly; run them through the fearce in the fame way. When it is all through the fearce, put it into the pan ; and whenever it comes to boil, put in the whole berries, after ftrewing them over with the pounded fugar, and let the wdiole boil together five minutes ; then take them off, and pot them up. White currants may be done in the fame way; only be fureyouufe double-refin’d fugar. This is a pretty preferve in glaftes or fine tarts. If you have a mind to do a few of them upon ftalks, you muft make a fmallCh.V. Preserves, Picles, &c. 209 fmall hole in the fide with the point of a pin, and pick out all the feeds; ftrew a little pounded fugar on the bottom of a plate, and lay every fialk feparate; drew fome of the pounded fugar over them ; put them in at the fame time with the whole berrries: when they are done, you can eafily feparate the berries on the (talks from the whole ones ; put them into glaffes, and fill them up with the jelly, and let the ends of the (lialks be uppermoft in the glafles. Aft excellent way of doing Currants for prefent ufe, Caft the whites of two or three eggs, until they drop from the fpoon like wa- ter ; take the largeft and bed red cur- rants you can get; keep them on the dalks; have fome double-refined fugar pounded and fified ; take every dalk of the berries by itfelf; dip them in the eggs as above; and while they are wet, roll them gently in the fugar ; lay them fo as not to touch each other on a fheec of clean white paper before the fire to K 3 dry;210 Cookery and Pastry. dry; but take care you don^t burn them; put them on a china plate, and fo (end them CO table, if there are any green berries at the end of the ftalk, be fure lo pick them off. To prefcrve Rnjberrles whole. Take the befl you can get; and to every pound oF them take a pound and a half of (ingle-refilled fugar; clarify and boil it candy-high; keep a little of the fugar out to pc und and fift; when the fugar is ready, put in the rafps, and let tiiem boil as quick as pofTible; drew the pounded fugar over them as they boll ; when the fugar boils over them,, take them ofi the liie, and ler uiem ftand until they are almod cold To every pound of rafps put half a mutch- kin of currant juice, which put in a- inongfl: them; then put the w!:o’e on to boil, till che fyrup ha.igs in liakes from the fpoon ; keep Icum iiing as tliey rde; then take it oif, and put it in pots or glaffes. Straw-Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc. 211 Strawberries are preferved in the fame manner. To make Rajherry Jam. Pick and dean the berries well! To every pound of berries take half a inutchkin of the juice of currants, and a pound and a half of lump fugar ; pound it, and put It into a pan, a row of fruit and a raw of fugar alternately ; let the whole lland in the pan fome time before you put them on the fire, to foften the fugar; boil them on a quick fire, and when they fall to the bottom they are enough. To preferve Green Goofeherries. Take the largeft and greenefi: gafken& you can get; cut off the black tops, and leave the tails ; flit them down the fide with a pin, but not too long ; put in a bowel as much water as will cover them ; beat a good piece of alum ; put it into the water to diflblve. As you cut and open the berries, throw them into the water until they are all done ; K. 4 then212 Cookery and Pastry. then put them on the fire to fcald, but take care they don’t boll ; take them out very carefully with a fldmmer, and fpread them on the back of a fearce to drain the water from them. You mud not lay one above another, for bruifing them. Weigh the berries before you do any thing to them ; and to every pound ' of berries take tv/o pounds of double- refin’d fugar; clarify the fugar. You may lay by near one half of the fyrup, and the other half put in a pan until it boil; then put in a few of the berries carefully; let them boil juft one minute ; take them up carefully, and put them into fmall pots ^ repeat boiling the reft in the fame manner and time until they are all done; put the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds ; pour it liot upon the berries, and lay fome light thing over them to keep them down a- mongft the fyrup; let them ftand five days ; then drain all the fyrup from them, which will be very thin ; add to it a part of that kept out; let it come to boil; throw in the berries, and give themCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 213 them another minute’s boiling as at firfl:, and lay them by in the fame manner as before; let them ftand ten days ; add new fyrup to the old, and give them the fame boiling as before ; put them up and let them hand other eight or ten days. If they are not green enough, give them another boil in the fime way; be fure every time you take off the fyrup to run it through a fearce, which takes out the feeds better than picking them out with a pin, and much eafier. When they are fo done, and quite cold, cover them up clofe with paper. To preferve Red Goof cherries. Take the beft Mogul berries ; take ofF the black tops, and leave the ftalks, as in the preceding receipt; take equal weight of berries and fingle-refin’d fu- gar ; clarify the fugar; make a very fmall flit in the berries with a pin on the fide, which lets the fugar go through them. When the fyrup is ready, put m the berries, and let them boil till the fugar is quite into, the heart of them, • K. 5 andC2I4 Cookery and PASTRYr and become tranfparent; then take them up wiih a Ikimmer ; put them into pots, and run the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds ; put the fyrup into a pan again, and let it boil until it ropes from the fpoon; then pour it on the berries; don’t let the ber- ries boil on too ftrong a fire. You may put them into glalTes, as they look very fine. make Gooftberry Jam, Take the fame eight of powder-fu- gar as of berries; put in the berries, ftrewing the fugar over them as you put them in; pour half a mutchkin of water over them ; put them on a flow lire ; let them boil flowly a little time; ikim them as clean as you can ; then put a quicker fire to them; let them boil till they are very clear, and will jelly. So pot them up. T(9 make Goofeherry Jelly, Fill a ftone jar with ripe goofeber- ries p cover it clofe up with paper; put itCh. V, Preserves, PicKLES, &G. 2tj it in a pot of water let them boil until they are quite tender, juft as you do buck currants; then put them through a fearce. To every mutchkin of juice take a Tpound of iingle-refin’d fugar clarify it, and boil it candy-high ; then put in the juice, and let it boil till it jellies, which you will eafiiy know by letting a little of it cool on a faucer take off any fcum that rifes from the fruit before you pot it up. To prfferve Cherries, Cut off part of each ftalk. To every pound of cherries take a pound of fingle refin’d fugar ; clarify and boil it candy-high ; put in the cherries, and let them boil as quick as you can, until the fyrup entirely covers them : when they have boiled a little time, fcum them, and let them ftand till next day. To every two pounds of cherries take a mutchkin of the juice of red currants, and allow a pound of fugar to the mutchkin of juice; pour off the fyrup from the cherries, and put it on the 6 fire2i6 Cookery and Pastry. fire with the currant-juice ; let it boil ; fcum it, and then put in the cherries ; let all boil together for two or three minutes ; and when they are almoft cold, place them in pots or glaffes, and pour the fyrup over them. Morelia cherries are better than the common ones ; but as the feafon of them is late, ' the currants are commonly over before they are ripe ; in that cafe, you muft take currant-jelly. preferve Cherries with Stalks a?id Leaves, Take the largefl May-duke cherries; gather them carefully with the ftalks, and fome of the leaves on them ; take fome ftrong vinegar, and beat a little alum in it; put it on the fire, and let it boil; then dip in the ftalks and leaves, and give them a little boil in the vine- gar, (but take care you don’t let the cherries touch the vinegar); then lay them on a fearce to dry ; clarify two pounds of double-refin’d fugar. While the fyrup is boiling hot, dip the cherries, ftalks,.Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles,&c. 217 ftalks, and leaves in it. When they are Ibalding hot, take them out again, and lay them on the fearce; then boil up the fyrup candy-high ; dip the cherries into it again ; then lay them again oil the fearce; dry them in the fun, or in a drying Hove ; turn them frequently whilll on the fearce. Ti? p7'eferve Apricots. Take the larged and bed you can get, jud ripe, and no more; open them at the crefs with a knife, and thrud out the done with a bodkin ; pare them as thin as you can. To every pound of apricots take a pound and a half of fine fugar. As you pare then, drew fome pounded fugar on them ; clarify the remainder of the fugar; put the a- pricots in the fyrup, and let them lie till the fyrup is almod cold ; then put them on a flow fire, and let them fim- mer on the fire a little; cover them with white paper ; fet them off the fire, and let them dand until they are almod cold; then put them on again, and bring them to2i8 Cookery and Pastry. to a fimmer ; repeat this three or four times, letcing them be almoft cold be- fore you put them on ; by this time the fugar will be well incorporate with them ; then put on, and bring them to the boil ; let them boil until they are quite tranfparent. If you choofe you may blanch the kernels, and put them in an ongfl them at the 1^11 boiling. So pot them up. 7o make Apricot Ja?n, Scone and pare the apricots •. take equal weight of fugar and fruit; clarify the fugar, and boil it candy-height; put in the apricots, and let them boil very thick, until they are well broke. You may bruife them with a fpoon as they boil: you may boil a little white cur- rant-jelly with them, for they are much the better of it; blanch the kernels, and mix with them jufl: before you take them off. This makes very fine tarts. To preferve Green Gauge Plumbs. Pluck the plumbs when full grown, withCh.V. Preserves^ Pickles, Scc^ 219 wit4i the (lack at each, and a leaf, if you can; let them lie in cold water ewenty- four hours ; take them out of that wa- ter ; put two or three green*kail blades in the bottom of a clean brafs-pan ; put in the fruit, with as much water as will wholly cover them; drew a little pound- ed alum amongfl them ; put them on a clear fire; and when they rife to the top,, take them out, and put them in a bowel with a little warm water about them ; clean the pan again ; put in a frefh green-kail blade in the pan ; put as much boiling water on them as will cover them, with a little more pounded alum ; cover them with a cloth ; let them (land a quarter of an hour ; take them out of ttie water; weigh them, and take equal weight of double-refin’d fugar; pound the fugar; clean the pau again ; put in the fruit, and drew the pounded, fugar alongd them, and a little water > fet it on a clear fire, and let it fimmer and boil dowly, until the fruit is green and tranfparent ^ put the fruit in pots 5 boil the fyrup a little longer;220 Cookery and Pastry. longer ; and when it is cold, pour ic on the fruit ; let them dand two or three days ; then pour off the fyrup ; boil it up with more fugar to a ftrong fmooth fyrup : w^hen it is cold, pour it on the fruit, and clofe them up ; and as the fkin will flirivel down, you muft take , it gently off. preferve Magfium Plumbs, Take the plumbs before they are too ripe, and give them a flit on the hollow fide with a pen-knife, and prick them with a pin ; take fcalding hot water, and put a little fugar in it; put in the plumbs ; cover them clofe up, and fet them on a flow fire to fimmer ; take them off, and let them Hand a little ; put them on the fire again to fimmer, but take care they do not break ; cla- rify as much fugar as will cover the plumbs, and boil it to candy-height; when the plumbs are pretty tender, take them out of that liquor, and put them amongff the fyrup when it is al- mofl; cold, till they are very tranfparent; ' fkimCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 221 fkim them, and take them ofF; let them ftand about two hours ; then let them on, and give them another boil; put them in pots or glaffes ; boil up the fyrup very thick ; and when it is cold pour it over the plumbs. To keep common Plumbs for Tarts, Put the plumbs into a narrow-mouth’d (lone-jar. To every twelve pounds of plumbs take feven pounds of raw fugar, and drew it in amongft the plumbs as you put them in the jar ; tie up the mouth of the pot very clofe with feveral folds of paper ; put them into a (low oven, and let them (land until the fugar has quite penetrated them, and then they are enough. To preferve Peaches, Put the peaches into bollM water, but don’t let them boil; take them out, and put them into cold water ; then lay them between two cloths to dry. To every dozen of peaches clarify a pound of fugar ; when you take the peaches outCookery and Pastry. 222 out the cloth, prick them with a pin ; put them into a clofe-mouth’d jar; and when the lyrup is cold, pour it over them, and fill up the jar with brandy ; put a wet bladder on the mouth of the jar, and tie leather above it. 7^0 preftrve Pears, Take the beft preferving pears new pluck’d ; make a fiiiall hole at the black end with a fmall ivory bodkin, and pick out the feeds ; pare them very thin ; weigh them, and rake equal weight of fine fugar; take half a murchkin of the water that boilM the pears to each pound of fugar ; clarify it, and put in the pears ; let them boil until they are foft. When you put the peai\s into pots, boil up the fyrup again, and pour it over them : when it is quite cold, put a clove into every pear where the eye was cut out ; cover them with the jelly of apple&, and fo pot them up. To preferve Pears red. Take the largefl: poimd-pears when fullCIi. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 223 full ripe ; pare them, and put them in- to as much water as will cover t:hem ; pound a drop or two of cochineal, and put it into the water ; let them boil till they are tender ; keep them dole co- vered while the fyrup is making; weigh them, and take equal weight of fugar j clardy it; then put in the pears ; fc^ueeze the juice of a lemon amongd the fyrup, and cut the chin paring of the lemon as fmall as you can, and put in it: let them boil until they are red and tranf* parent; then put them into pots > and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them ; cover them with the jelly of red gooleberries ; pick out the feeds, as in the preceding receipt, and put a clove into every pear. To make Apple Jelly. Pare a dozen of good tart apples; take a pint of water ; cut the apples in very fmall bits, and throw them into the water as you cut them, to prefcrve their colour; let them boil until the whole fubftance is .out of them, and the2 24 Cookery and Pastry. the water half wafted ; then put it into a hair-fearce ; let them Rand until all the water is drain’d from them. To every^ mutchkin of the liquor take a pound of fine fugar ; caft the white of an egg or two, and put in amongft the fu gar and liquor ; put them on the fire, and keep them ftirring until the fugar • is,melted : when it boils a while, take off the fcum, and put in the juice of a lemon or two, as you like it of tartnefs. You may boil in a piece of the rhind along with them; let it boil until it jellies, which you will know by putting a little of it on a faucer to cool ; take all the fcum clean off, and take out the le- mon. So pot it up. Chip and Jelly of Apples. Prepare the apples in the fame way as in the foregoing receipt for thejelly ; pare the apples, cut them in flices, and then cut the flices into long chips (as you do the chip marmalade); put them amongfi: cold water. You may weigh two pounds of apples before you pare them.'Ch. V. PRESERVES, Pickles, 8cc. 225 them. To each chopin of juice allow two pounds of fine lugar, and a pound and a half for the two pounds of chips; put on all the fugar and juice; clarify it with eggs as you do the jelly ; when the fyrup is well fcummed, fqueeze in the juice of three lemons, put in itfome of the parings of the lemons; drain the water trom the chips, and put them in- to the fyrup ; they mufl boil on a quick fire; let them boil until the chips are quite tranfparent. You mud: be lure that they are very firm apples. The true leadington anfwers very well, or the pippins. This is a very pretty preferve, either in glafles or fine tarts. To fircferve Apples grec?i. Take the large coddling, or any other hard green apple; they raufl be newly pulled ; cut them in quarters, and cut out the core ; put them into a brafs pan, with hard water and a little pounded alum ; turn the green fide downmofi; le them fimmer on a flow fire, but don’t let them boil; they are enough 5 when226 Cookery and Pastry. when you take ofF the fldn without any of the fruit adhering to it; and after they are all peeled, put them on again amongft the fame water, with two oun- ces of fugar ; keep down the green hde, and let them fimmer gently for a little while ; put them on and oiF the fire un- til they turn green; they muft not be long at a time on the fire, as they would become too foft; lake out the apples from the liquor, and lay them on a diih. To every pound of apples clarify a pound of fine fugar ; when the fyrup is ready put in the apples, and give them a quick boil, until they are tranfparent; take them out of the fyrup, and boil up the fyrup until it is pretty thick. When the apples and fyrup are cold, put them into pots ; let them Hand fome days, and if the fyrup is turned thin, pour it off the apples, and give them a boil in it; and when they are cold, put them into pots, and clofe them up You may look at them in a fortnight after; and if the fyrup is turned thin, boil them up again as before. JjypletCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 227 Apples in Syrup, Take firm round apples; takeout the cores; p^’re them, and'throw them into cold water as you pare them ; clarify as much fine fugar as will cover them ; pat them into the fyrup, and let them boil on a quick fire until the apples are rranfparent; turn them often in the pan, that the fugar may boil over them; place them nearly in a china difh, and pour the I'yrup about them ; put in the juice of a lemon when the fyrup is cla- rified. if you have any preferved bar- berries, you may put in two or three fprigs of them on the top of the apples. This is a very pretty dilTi for prefenc lufe. To prefer^e Cucumbers, Take the greened:, and not too large, :ucumbers you can get, and lay them ui a flrong pickle of fait and water 5 let :|:hem lie four days ; ,take them out of jjhat pickle, and put them in a frefli )ne as Itrong as the farmer, and let I theitt^228 Cookery and Pastry. them He as long in it as in the fird;; wafli them out of that in clean water, % and lay them in plenty of freih water for twenty-four hours ; lay a weight on them to hold them down ; make a Hit in one of the hollows with a pen-knife, and take out all the pulp; lay green blades in the bottom of a pan ; then put the cucumbers into the pan ; take equal quantity of vinegar and water, more than cover them; put in a good I piece of pounded alum and faltpetre ; I drew it in the pan ; cover up dole with I more green blades ; put them on the | fire, and let them be near the boil ; fet I tliem off the fire, and let them Hand I for an hour or more ; fet them on again, I and give them a good quick heat, but I not to boil ; fet them off, and let them I, Hand as long as before; tlien put them [| on the fire again, and give them a quick |t boil. When that is done, they will turn b green ; take them up and fpread them b between two cloths, with the cut fide jg: undermoH; take thin parings of lemons, ,b white pepper, fliced ginger, fome blades J(( ofCIi. V. Preserves, Pickles, 8cc, 229 I of mace; mix all thefe together, and fluff the cucumbers full of them ; then lay them in a flat-bottom’d potting-can with the cut fide up ; have as much double-refin’d fugar clarified as will co- ver them. When the fyrup is cold pour it over them; cover them with a plate and a weight above it, to hold them down amongft the fyrup. When the fyrup is quite thin about them, pour it off; add more fugar to it, and boil it up to a good fyrup, and when cold, pour it over the cucumbers ; let it fland on them for eight or ten days ; then pour it off, and boil it up again with more fugar. You muft continue fo do- ing for every eight or ten days, until the fugar be quite into the heart of them, and the cucumbers of a fine green, and that the fyrup remains thick about therr ; then you may pot them up for ufe : throw in amongft the fyrup, when you ‘ pot them up, fome whole white pepper and ginger; for they cannot be too much flavoured of the fpices. You may cut them into what fliape you pleafe when L you230 Cookery and Pastry. you fend them to the table alongft with other preferves. I To preferve Mdons. » Take the melons before che}^ are quite ripe; lay them in fait and water two days ; take them otic of thac pickle, and lay them in cold clean water another day; green them the fame way as the preferved cucumbers: when they are green’d, cut a fniall bit out at one of the ends, and fcoop out all the pulp. Do the fyrup the fame way as for the cu- cumbers ; let it be quite cold or you put it on the melons; throw in a good deal of lemon-peel and caffia-buds, and fome fllced ginger amongll the fyrup ; and theJafl; boiling you give the fyrup put in fome of the juice of lemon. ‘ To preferve green Almonds^ 'Pluck the almonds when not full grown, but fb tender thac a pin will pierce through t'hdni; rub them with a clean cloth, and put them into boiling water for three or four minutes, until 4 theCh. V, Preserves, Pickled, &c. 23I « the outer fkiii will rub ofFwith a cloth; the almonds in it, and let them boil two minutes; take them out of the fyrup, and boil the fyrup a little longer^ and pour it on them ; repeat the boiling the fyrup five or fix days, until the fyrup remains thick on them, and that it is penetrated into them. Boil fome rock alum aUb in the water. All green and white prefer ves mu ft be done with double-relin’d fugar, elfe they won’t be pretty. Another thing to be minded is, that there is no other pans fit for preferving or pickling but belkmetal or brafs ones, and thefe mufl always be clean fcour’d before you ufe them. have ready fome thick fyrup, and put Ij 'Take the larged and fined fprigs of ‘barberries you can get; lay^ them care- A fully in a done fiat-bottom’d pot; cla- l\ rify *as much fine fugar as will cover i\ them : when the fyrup is cold, pour it To preferve Barberries. L 2 over2^2 Cookery and Pastry. then I over them; let it ftand until the fyrup becomes thin ; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it, and boil it to a pretty flrong fyrup; when cold, pour it over them again, which you mud re- peat until the fyrup is incorporated with the berries, and that they are tranfpa- rent, and the fyrup remains thick about , them; then pot them up for ufe. When you ufe them, take them up in whole fprigs ; put them into glaffes with the fyrup about them; they look very pretty. They are a very pretty garnifhing to I milk-difties. I Be fure to put paper dipped in fpirits I clofe on all prelerves, or in fine oil, I which is rather better for keeping them I from candying than the fpirits ; take I care not to keep them in a damp place, I nor in a place too drying. 1 To make Lenion-fyrnp, I Cut the lemons, and fqueeze out the L juice ; put it into a done or china mug; I j a diver tankard is better, if you have L it; let the juice dand until it is clear ; KCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 233 then pour it off from the grounds ; let none of that go in. To every mutch- kin of juice beat and life two pounds of double-refin’d fugar, and llir it in a- mongrt the juice until it is diffolved 5 clean the tankard, and put the fyrup in- to it; put the tankard into a pot of cold water, and let the water boil about it for a quarter of an hour ; then take it out of the water, and let it Hand all night; take off the feum, and when the fyrup is cold, bottle it up. If it is in a mug, you mull tie feveral folds of pa- per about the mouth of it before you put into the water. I Syrup of Clove fulyfower. Cut all the white ends of them. To every pound of flowers put on a chopin of water, and about a dozen of cloves ; put them into a flone pot, and tie them clofe up with paper, and put it into a pot of cold water; let it boll about them for five or fix hours; take care the water does not boil into the pot; then take them out, and fqueeze them through a L 3 dean1^34 Cookery and Pastry. clean cloth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fine fugar; put in the ■whrte of an egg to clarify it; fcum it Ycry well as ic bolls up ; when cold, bottle it up. Syrup of Violets, Pick them olF the ftalks. To every pound of violets pour on a mutchkin of boiling water; cover them up clofe, and let them ftand for twenty-four hours ; then drain it. For every mutchkin of juice take two pounds of double-refin’d fugar, pounded and fiftcd, and put it in by degrees ; and when the fugar is quite dilTolved, bottle it up. Syrup of Pale Rofes, Fill an earthen pot with rofes ; pour boiling water over them ; cover them \ip, and let them ftand all next day; Itrain them through a clean cloth, and add as many frefti rofes to the liquor as you had before ; fet them on the fire, ^and let them boil until they are ftrong;^ then drain it. To every mutchkin ofCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c, 235 juice take a pound of fine fugar, and mix it in with the juice; put in the white of an egg or two to clarify it; then put it on the fire to boil ; it muft not boil too long ; fcum it very well^ and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Maidenhair. Take half a pound of maidenhair, and half a pound of liquorice-^ftick; peel off the flun, and flice it down ; take an ounce of tiffilago ; put them all into a pot that will hold a pint ; fill the pot with water ; tie it clofe up, and put it into a pot of cold water; fee it on the fire, and let it boil for feven or eight hours ; then firain it through a cloth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of white fugar-candy; clarify it with the white of an egg; let it boil well ; fcum it, and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Turnip, Wa(h the turnip very clean, and dry them with a clcth; grate them down and firain them through a clean cloth. To L 4 every236 ’Cookery and Pastry. every mutckin of.julce take a pound of fugar-candy; clarify it with the white of an egg; let it boil well; fcum it, and when cold bottle it tip. Syrup of Nettlesm Take the red nettles in the fpring of the year; pick and wafli them very clean through two or three waters ; beat them in a mortar, and fqueeze out the juice; let ic fland twenty-four hours to fettle; then pour all the clear juice from the grounds. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar-candy, and cla- rify it; boil and fcum ic, and when cold bottle it up. Coufej’ve of Rofes, Take the buds of the true fcarlet ro- fes ; clip off all the red part. To each pound of rofes beat and lift two pounds of fine fugar ; pound the rofes very well in a marble mortar ; then ftir in the fugar by degrees, and continue pound- ing until all the fugar is thoroughly in- corporated with the rofes. If you thinkCh,V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 237 it too thin, add more fugar, ’until they will receive no more. Ti? make ablets. Clarify fome fugar. To every pound of fugar take half an ounce of cinnamon finely pounded and fearced. The fugar mud boil until you can blow it like bladders through the holes of the fkim- mer; then mix in the cinnamon ; take the pan off the fire, and prefs the fugar againfi: the fide of the pan with the back of a fpoon, to make it grain ; butter a fmooth done very well, or a clean pewter difh, or a Iheet of clean white paper. You may pin it up at the corners ; pour the tablets on either of thefe; let it dand fome time; then fcore it with a knife in fquares, and when it is quite firm take it off. You may make ginger-tablet the fame way ; and to the pound of fugar take a quarter of an ounce of ginger finely beat and fifted. You.may put in more, if you love it drong-flavoured of L 5 the238 Cookery and Pastry, the ginger. Superfine cinnamon-tablet mufl be made'with che very finefi of fu- gar I and in place of the pounded cinna- mon, you muft put in two tea-fpoonfuls of the oil of cinnamon. Be fure to mix the feafoning well amongft the fugar before you turn it out of the pan. Ti? make Bar ley-fugar, Wafh a little barley, and put it on with boiling water; let it boil a little ; then turn out that water, and pour more boiling water on it; put on a penny- worth of liquorice-flick ; let it boil un- til all the ftrength is out of it; then pour off the liquor, and let it fland to fettle, and pour all the clear from the grounds; take half a mutchkin of it to the pound of fugar ; clarify it with whites of eggs. It muft be on a foft equal fire ; you muft not ftir it much on the fire; it muft be boiled until it crackles. 1’his is a higher degree of boiling the fugar than blowing. The way to know it, is to dip a fmail ftick into clean water; then put it into the boiling fugar, and try it with your teeth:Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 239^ teech ; if ic fticks to them like glue,, it is not enough. You mu ft boil it a little longer, and when you hear it crack be- tween your teeth take it off; have a done ready rubb’d with frelli butter or fine oil ; then pour the fugar on it; you muft double it together, and cut it as« faft as you can with big fciffars; give ic a little twin as you cut it. If you think . the fugar boils too furioufly, put a very little bit of frefh butter amongft it. To make Glafing for'Seed or Plumb Cake» Take two pounds of double-refin’d' fugar pounded and lifted ; beat fix; whites of eggs to a froth ; caft a little gum-water alongft with the eggs; then mix in the fugar, and beat it until it iii very thick ; it will take two hours beat- ing : put it on the cake wdien it is taken out of the oven then put it again into the oven a little, but take care it be not too hot. To ma?igo Cucumbers» Take the greened and larged cucum- JL 6 bers^240 Cookery and Pastry, bers you can get, before they begin to turn yellow ; make a pickle of fait and water fo ftrong as to carry an egg ; let them lie four days in it; make a flit in one of the creflTes; fcoop out all the pulp; mix fome black and Jamaica pep- per, according to the quantity of cucum- bers; cut down three or four nutmegs; flice fome ginger, cloves, and fome blades of mace; mix all thefe with a little muftard-feed; fill up every cucum- ber with thefe fpices, and put a fingle clove of garlick into every cucumber ; then tie them round with thread to keep in the fpices ; lay green-kail blades in the bottom of the pan; lay in the man- goes, and ftrew a good deal of pounded alum over them; then put in an equal quantity of water and vinegar, more than will cover them ; put in along with the alum a bit of faltpetre; cover them up with blades, and put them on the fire ; give them a good heat, but don’t let them boil ; take them off, and let them (land an hour; then put them on again, and repeat this for two or threeCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 241 three times: the lafl: time you put them on, let them boil until they are of a good green ; then take them out of that, and lay them between the folds of two cloths, with the cut fide undermoft to dry ; then clean the pan, and take as much ftrong vinegar as will cover them; put them into your pots, and pour the vine- gar boiling hot upon them; put amongfl: them any of the fpices that was left from filling them up; cover them with two or three folds of a clean cloth until they are cold. All green pickles are done in the fame way as the mangoes ; fuch as fmall cu- cumbers, kidney-beans, famphire, rad- difh pods, Indian creffes feed, &c. 1^0 pickle Walnuts, TaJce full-grown walnuts before the (hells turn hard, fo that you can run a pin eafily through them ; prick every nut with a big pin ; boil a pickle of fait and water fo ftrong as to bear an egg ; fcum it when it boils, and pour it hot on /242 Cookery and Pastry. on the nuts ; lay a weight on them to hold them down, and every four days make anew pickle as ilrong as the fird; continue fo doing for four or five times ; and when you take them out of the laft brine, rub each nut with a clean coarfe cloth; boil as much ftrong vinegar as will cover them ; take black and Ja- maica pepper, cloves, and mace ; cut two or three nutmegs ; dice a piece of ginger and a piece of horfe-radifli j put in three or four fpoonfuls of mu- Itard-feed, and a few cloves of garlicky drew in the fpices among ft the walnuts as you put them in; then pour the vi- negar boiling hot on them, and cover them up with two or three folds of a clean cloth. To pickle MuJJjrooms^ Take the fmall white buttons; throw them in milk and water ; take them out of that, and rub every mufhroom with a piece of clean flannel; and as you rub them, throw them into clean milk and* watery then put them into a pan ot cleanCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 243 clean cold water with a little bit of alum ; put them on the fire ; let them be near the boil, but not to boil ; take them off, and fpread them between two cloths to dry ; have ready bolTd as much of the llrongeft vinegar as will cover them; then put the mufhrooms into bottles with whole v/hlte pepper, cloves, mace, and ginger. The vinegar mufi; be quite cold before you put it on them ; put a little fweet oil on the tops of the bottles ; cork and tie them up very clofe with a piece of leather. To pickle Caul'Jloixers, Take the cauliflowers when they are no larger than a fmall turnip; take away all the green leaves from them ; put on fome milk and water ; and when it boils, put in the flowers, and fcald them in it; take them off, and lay them be- tween two cloths to dry ; and when they are dry, put them into ajar : put in whole white p>epper^ mace, cloves, and a bit of ginger, amongftthem; boil as much of the beft vinegar as will co- ver244 Cookery and Pastry. ■ver them; you muft let it be cold before you put it on them: you mufl: be fure that the cauliflowers be hard, white, and free of all blemiflies. You may pickle turnip in the fame way, but turn them out with a turner : if you have none, pare and cut them down very neatly in pieces about the fize of a walnut. To pickle Onions, Take fmall hard onions ; the filvei’ onions are the beft; put them into a pan with cold water; put them on the fire, and let them be very near boiling; then take oflp the (kins, and lay them between two cloths till they are cold ; put in white pepper, mace, cloves, and ginger, amongfl: them; boil feme vinegar, and when it is cold pour it on them. To pickle Red Cabbage, Cut down the cabbage in very thin llices, and flrew a good handful of fait in amongft them; prefs them down in a can, and let them ftaad twenty-four hours: then fqueeze all the juice very well< Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 245 well with your hand out of them ; mix . fome black and Jamaica pepper and cloves with the cabbage; pour vinegar boiling hot upon them; cover up the mouth of the can with two or three folds of a cloth, and when they are cold clofe them up. 1^0 pickle Bit root. Put the bitroot inte a pot full of boil- ing water ; take care not to cut nor break any of the fmall fibres nor the fiiaws: when they are boiled tender enough, let them cool a little, and take off the Ikins with a coarfe cloth; flice them down into a pot, and put in fome black and Jamaica pepper and cloves among them, and fill up the pot with cold vinegar. If you have a mind to dye any of the turnips or onions red, put them in amongft the bitroot. You may flice a few onions, and throw in a- mongfl: pickled cabbage; it gives them a good relifli. To IS46 Cookery andP.^sxRY. V pickle Barberries, Take equal quantity of vinegar and water; into a chopin of that put half a pound of kitchen-fugar and a little fait; then pick out the worfl of the berries ; bruife them in a mortar, and put them in amongft the liquor; boil it till it is of a fiae colour; let it fland to cool, and then drain it through a cloth ; put the bed of the barberries into a jar, and when the pickle is cold and fettled pour it on them. All pickle fhould be covered up with a wet bladder, and a piece of leatlier tied above j a wooden or horn Ipoon is the bed for lifting pickles. To make Pickle-Lillo^ or Indian Pickle, Take a pound of white ginger ; let it lie one night in fait and water; ferape and cut it into thin dices, and put it in a large done-jar with dry fait, and let it remain till the red of the ingredients are ready; take one pound of garlick;247 Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. peel off the fl^ins)^ fait it three days 5 then wafh it and fait it again, and let it lie three days longer; then wafh it, and put it in a fieve, and dry it in the fun; take two ounces of long pepper ; fait and dry it, but not too much ; take one ounce of white mudard feed, two ounces of turrnerick-root ; pound it well, and tie it in a muflin rag, and throw in all thefeingredients into a well-^glaz’d earth- en jar, putting a quart of drong white- wine vinegar to them, juR cold ; do not boil it; and if at any time the liquor dry up, add fome more vinegar; take the white kind of cabbages; cut them into quarters; fait them three days ; fqueeze the water from them, and dry them in the fun : do the fame to cauli- flowers and celery, only the white part of the celery : French beans, falad, and afparagiis, fliould only lie two days, and have a boil in fait and water, and be dried in the fun, and thrown into the pickle ; keep them very clofc. White cucumber, or plumbs and apples, may be done in like maoner with this pickle. To..248 Cookery and Pastry. To make Sugar Vinegar. To every pint of water take half a pound of raw fugar; let it boil, and fctim it as long as the fcum rifes; put it into a barrel that will hold it; and when it is as cold as when you put barm (yeft) to wort, foak a toad; of bread in barm, and put it to it \ let it fland un- til it give over hilling ; then bung it; let it ftand in an equal warm place. If you make it in April, it will be ready againft the feafon of making pickles. To make Goofeberry Vinegar. To every pint of goofeberries allow three pints of water; the berries muft be quite ripe ; bruife them with your hand; boil the water, and let it be cold> and then put it on the berries ; let it ftand twenty-four hours; then ftrain it through a clean cloth. To a pint of that juice put half a pound of raw fu- gar; mix it well, and when the fugar is diflhlved, barrel it up; it muft ftand nine or ten months at leaft. This is a very ftrong vinegar. ToCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 249 To make Ketchups Take the largeft muftirooms you can get, and cut ofF a bit of the end that the earth dicks on; break them in fmall pieces with your hands; as you break them, drew fait on them ; let them dand twenty*four hours ;* then turn them into a hair-fearce, and dir them often in the fearce to let the juice run from them. When you have gathered all the juice you can get, run it through a flannel bag. To every pint of juice allow an ounce of black and Jamaica pepper, two nutmegs bruifed, two drops of mace, two drops of cloves, and a piece of diced ginger; clarify it with the whites of eggs; and when it is very clean fcummed, put in the fpices, and let it boil until it tades very drong of the fpices; when cold, bottle it up, and ^put the fpices into the bottles; pour a little fweet oil into each bottle ; cork them, arid tie a piece of leather above the corks. To make Walnut Ketchups Take the walnuts when they are full grown,1 250 Cookery and Pastry. grown, before the fliell turn hard \ prick them with a pin; make a ftrong pickle of fait and water to bear an egg; pour it boiling hot on the walnuts, and let them (land for four days; take them up, and waih them with clean water, and dry them with a cloth; beat them very well in a mortar. To every hundred walnuts put on two bottles of ftrong ftale beer; the ftronger the beer is the better; let it ftand ten or twelve days on the walnuts ; then run it through a cloth, and ftrain it hard to get all the juice out; then run it through a flan- nel bag; put it on the fire; clarify it with whites of eggs ; when it is clean fcummedj put in black and Jamaica ^pepper, cloves, nutmegs, mace, fliced ginger, horfe-radifli fliced, and a quar- ter of a pound of anchovies; let them boil until they are ftrong of the fpices; then run it through a fearce; divide the fpices equally amongft the bottles, and put in a Angle clove of garlick into each bottle: when the ketchup is cold, cork it up as the other ketchup. ‘ * 'IV'Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 25 i T<? make a Tuaenty-plnt Barrel of Douhle Rum Shrub. Beat eighteen pounds of fingle refin’d fngar ; put it into the barrel, and pour* a pint of lemon and a pint of orange -juice upon the Ihgar ; fhake the barrel often, and llir it up with a clean (lick till thefugar is difTolved. Before you ft^ueeze the fruit, pare four dozen of the lemons and oranges very thin; put oii foine rum on the rhind, and let it (land until it is to go into the barrel: when the fugar is j all melted, fill up the barrel with the rum, ! and put in the rum that the rhind is a- monglt along with it. Before the barrel is quite full, ihake it heartily, that it may be all well mix’d; then fill up the barrel ■with the rum,and bung it up; let it (land fix-weeks before you pierce it. If you fee it is not fine enough, let it hand a week or two- longer. To make the U'ue French white Ratafia^ which IS one of the bef compounded Drams ^ 0 To two pints of brandy take four ounces of the kernels, of apricots and \ peaches;^^2 C(ydRERY and Pastry. BILLS 6 peaches; brulfe them in the mortar ; take the thin parings of a dozen of le- mons and fix oranges; bruife an ounce of coriander feed; break half an ounce of cinnamon in fmall bits, and take twenty whole cloves ; mix all thefe ma- terials wdth the brandy. You may let them ftand a month or fix weeks, flir- ring them often; put it through afearce, and take a pound and a half of fine fu- gar ; clarify it, and mix it with the fpirits ; then bottle it; put the corks loofe in, and let it ftand until it is quite fine; pour it from the grounds into o- ther bottles. You may filter the grounds through a paper or cotton in a filler. As we have not many of thefe fruits, bitter almonds will fupply their place ; but take only the half of the cfuantity, and don’t bruife them, but cut them fmall with a knife. You may put on a pint of good whilky on the materials, and put a good piece of fugar in it. It is a good ieafoning for puddings, or a common dram.BILLS OF FARE. 4fi- Family Dinners of Five Di/Jjes, Potatoes. Kidney Beans. Brocoli. Greens. Spinage. Peae. 4/i Soup. Plum-pudding. Roall Beef, Dreft Lamb’s head. Backed Pudding. Roaft Mutton. Pickles* Sliced Cucumber. Boiled Haddocks, or Fifh in feafon. Baked Pudding. Roaft Veal. Boiled Pork. Soup. Roaft Turkey, Stewed Tongue, Boiled Pudding. Roaft Rabbits. Pickles* Peafe Pudding* •2)^ Cauliflower, H?k-: Hancot of Mutton. Baked Pudding, Roaft Goofe. M Apple fauce* ABILLS OF FARE. J54 A Small Cod. Apple Beef Steak Pie. Sauce. Roafl Pork. . Fllk Sauce. ' Peafe. A Round of Beef and Carrots. Boiled Pudding, Roaft Lamb. Salad. Family Dinners of Semen DiJJjes, Tufle FiHi. Egg Sauce. Potatoes. Soup. Salad. Clieefe-cakes. Roaft Loin of Veal. Dreft Calf’s Head. Scolloped ( Afparagus. Oyfters. Apple Pie. Brocoli. V Fretters. ‘ Boiled Beef and Greens. Stewed Rump Almond of Beef., Lemon * Cheefe-cakes. Cream. . Floating Ifland. Ratafia Confedion v Cream. Parts, Roaft Turkey.BILL OF FARE. 25^ Stew’-cd Celery. Jugged Hare. Cuftard Pudding. Pickles. Tai'ts. Saddle of Mutton. Potatoes# Family Dinners of Eight DiJJjes, Goofeberry Sauce. Minched Pie Cod^s Head removed, with Roafted Duckling. Orange Pudding. Boiled Leg Lamb and Loin fried. Fricafee of Pallets. Cauliflower* Fricafee Whitens. Cold Tongue. Soup removed, Roaft Pig. Cuftard in Cups. Boiled Leg Mutton, Cauper Sauce. Lemon Pudding. Mafli’d Turnips* Family Dinner of Nine DiJJjes, Lemon Pudding. Bacon and Beans. Cauliflower. Fifh removed, Ragoo of Pigeons. Soup. Roafled Beef, M 2 Fricafee of Kernels, Boiled Chickens. Pickles*256 BILLS OF FARE. Family Dinner of Fen DiJ7?es. Stewed Cellery. I^Iarrovv pally. Veal Cutlets. Soup. Salmon removed, Roaft Turkey. Fried Fiih. Fine baked Pudding. Sliced Turnips and Carrot with melted Butter over them. Boiled Tongue and Udder with Roots. Fa?nily Dinner of Twelve Di/Jjcs, Soup removed, with Boiled Mutton and Cauper Sauce, Boiled Chickens with Cream Sauce. Stewed Mufin corns. Pigeon Pie. Lobfler. Confection Tarts. Roaft Hare. Cheefe-cakes. Road Tongue. Artichoke Bot- toms Fricafee. Veal Olives. Stewed Peafe and Lettuce. Ratafia Cream. Apricot Fart. Blanc-manrge. Fricafee. Family Dinner of Fifteen Dijhes» Soup removed, Boiled '’’urkey with Oyher Sauce. Hen’s Nell. Syllabubs. Jelly In a Cheap. Roaft Pig. Scotch Collops. Ralberry Cream. Orange P'ldding. Egg Cheefe. Wild Fowls.( 257 ) THINGS FOR SUPPER-DISHES, Minced veal—Beef fteaks—Roaft fowl, chicken, duck, hot or cold—Roaft hare—Cold fliced beef, cold ham, cold tongue—Scollop oyflers or pickled oyf- ters—Boiled tripe—Broiled fiih—Sau- fages, rafped beef—any fort of potted meat—Veal cutlets, Scotch eollops, cold veal or mutton hafhed—Frlcafee of chicken, veal, lamb kernels, or atiy white meat—Pigeons roafted or broiled —Giblets ftewed—Sliced coler—Lob- her, anchovies, and fliced butter—- Salmagundy—-Turkey pout roafted, or any kind of wild^fowl roafled—Cold wild-fowl or hare ftewed down— Pickles—Fine minced pies, tarts, cheefe- cakes, fine baked pudding, fritters, Ger- man puffs—Blanc-mange, trifle, or any fort of creams you choofe—Spinage, a£- paragus, peas, artichokes, falad—Botch- ed eggs and forrel—Celery ftewed or for a I’alad—Potatoes. Have always fome garden diflies according to the feafons at fupper. Buttered crabs in the fhell, com- monly called parton pies—Pan-cakes. M 4 ^A 4 LIST O F THINGS IN SEASON^ IN EVERY MONTH OF THE YEAR. ocoo f 000 0000 oeou oooo oooo eooo tooo cooo^ * JAN U A R y. Meat. Lobfters, Coleworts, Sorrel, TTOufe Lamb,Crabs, Sprouts, Burne*,. XX Pork, Cray-Filh, Borecole, Parfley, JBeef, Prawns, Erocoli, purple Sac e, Mutton, Oyfters, and white. Thyme, Veal. Sturgeon, Spillage, Rofemary, Fijb, Poultry, Cardoons, Lettuce, Haddocks, Hare, Parfnips, Creffe-, Cod-, Pheafant, Carrots,. Mu hard. Soles, Partridge, Turnips, Rape, Turbot, Woodcocks, Celery, Radifh, Thornback, Snipes, Endive, Tar agon, Skate, Turkeys, Leeks, IMint, Whitings, Capons, O.niwns, Chervil, Smelts, Pullets, Potatoes, Fruits Caip, Fowls, Beets, A]'ple«, Tench, Chickens, Garlick, Pears, Perch, Tame Pigeons, Efchalct, Nuts, Eels, Rabbits, Mulhrcoms, Almonds, l.anpreyp, - Vegetables. Salfafy, Services, Plaice, Cabbage, Scorzomra, Medlars, FJouiider?* Savoys. Skiaets, Gra] e?, F E B R U A RY,LIST OF THINGS In SEASON, 5 2jT9 F E B R U A R Y. iVfci?/. Lobflers, Coleworts, Sorre!, T T Oufe Lamb, Crabs, Sprouts, * Burnet, ' jn Pyj'k, Cray iilh. Borecole, Parlley, Beef, Prawns, Oylbers, Brocoli, li*urple Thyme, ^ Mutton, and White, Winter Savouryy Veal. Sturgcon_. Cardoons, Rofemary, Fouhty. Spinage, Sage, Fljh. Hare, Carrots, Marigolds, Haddocks, Pheafant, Parfnrj s, l.ettuce. Cod, Partridge, Turni[ s, Orefles, Soles, Woodcock, Celery, Muftard, Turbot, Snipes, Turkeys, Endive, Rape, I'hornback, Leeks, Radifh, Skate. Capons, Onioi’iS, Taragoii, Whitirgs, PuP.ets, Potatoes, N Mint, Smelts, Fowls, Beets, Cher vi), Carp, Chickens, Garlic, Jcrufalem Arti- Tench, Pigeons, Efchalot, chokes. Perch, I'ame Rabbits. Mullrrooms, Eels, Salfafy, FruxU 1 Lampreys, Vegetables, Scorzoriera, Apples, Plaice, Flounders, Cabbage, Savoys, Skirrets, Pears. M R H. F/Teat. Flounders, Vegetables, Potatoes, T TOufeLamb, Mullet?, CablragCy Beets, JTi. Pork, Lobfters, Savoys, Garlic, Beef, Crabs, Coleworts, Efchalot, Mutton, Cray Fifli, Sprouts, Muflirooms^ Veal. Prawns. Borecole, Burnet, Fijh. Brocoli, P>:rp!e Parlley, Turbot, Poultry. and White, I'll) me. Soles, Turkeys, Spillage, Savour)', Thornback. Capons, Gardoc-n*, Rofemary, Skate, Pu let?. Paifnrj'S, Sage, Whitings, Fowls, Cam ts, Sorrel, Carp, Cli.ckens, Turnips', Marigt'l'Js, Tench, Pigeons, Celery, Lettuce, EfLs, Duckhr gs. Endive, Ci efles, Flake, Taine Rabbits. Ouiohf, Muflai'd,LIST OF THINGS IN SEASON. 260 Rape, Radift, Taragon, Mint, Chervil, Tanfy, Jerufalem Aiti- Cucumbers, chokes, Afparagus, Clary, Purflane, Fruity Pears, Apples. APRIL. T\leat. Chubs, Vegetables, B^et, Rais Lamb, Mullets, Coleworts, Lettuce, VJ Beef, Cray Fifh, Sprouts, All forts of fmall Mutton, Crabs, You:ig Carrots, Salad, Veal. Lobfterg, E ocoli. All forts of Pot Fijh. Prawns. Spinage,. Herbs, Turbot, • Parfley, Young fhoots of Soles, Poultry, Chervil, Salfafy. Skate, I^cverets, Young Onions, Cucumbers, Carp, Rabbits, Celery, Tragopogon. T'ench, Duckling.s, Endive, Trout, Pigeons, Sorrel, Fruit. Herring, Pullets, Enrr.et, Pears, Salmon, F'jwls, Radifhes, Apples. Smelts, Chickens. Afparagus, M Y. Herrings, Eels, Vegetables. All fortsof falad, A11 forts of herb#, Iiieat. Chub, Lob h er, Cray Flfh, ^Cabl)ages, Potatoes, Peafe, Beans, T A mb, I i Beef, Carrots, Afparagus, Crabs, rurnips. Tragopogon, Mutton, Veal. Prawns. w CaulifTviwer, Cucumbers. 1 Artichokes, poultry Rodifhes, Fruit. Fijh. Spina.::e, Apple.s, Turbot, Green Geefe, Parlley, Pears, Carp, Ducklings, Soi •rel. Cherries, Tench, Leverets, Balm, Some Straw- ^’!■OUt, Rabbits, Mint, berries, Salmon, Pullets, Purflane, Gt'i feberries and Soles, Fowls, Fennel, Cur'^ants for Sxueits, Chickens. Lettuce, Tarts. JUNE% LIST OF THINGS IN SEASON. j5i 0 J U Herrings, Smelts, Eel^, Mullets, Lobflcri, Cray Filh, Prawns. Poultry. Green Geefe, Ducklings, Turkey Poults. Plovers, Wheat Ears, I..everets, Rabbits, J u Ekate, 1‘hornbaclc, Pike, Eels, l.obllers. Prawns, Cray Filh» Poultry. Green Geefe, Duckling*, Turkey Poults, Leverets, Ral bits-. White Ears, Plovers, Pige ms. Pullets, Fow Is, Chickens. , N E. Fowls, Pallets, Chickens. fvetahles. SJ Cucumbers, Peafe, Beans,-• Kidney Beans, Afparagus, Cabbages, Cauliflowers, ArtichoJee#, Carrots, Turnips, Potatoes, L Y. • Vegetahler, Peafe, Beans, Kidney Beans, Cabbage, Caullfl wer, Cuc;.mbers, Mufhrooms, Carrots, Turnips, Potatoes, RaJifhes, Finochia, Senrzonera, Salfafy, Artichokes, Celery, Endive, Chervil, j^Ieat. Lamb, Beef, Mutt( n, Veal, Buck Venifon, Fijb. Turbot, Mackerel, Trout, Carp, T'endi, Pike, Saimun, Soles, JiPeat. Lamb, Beef, Mutton, Veal, Buck Venifon. Fijh. Cod, Haddock, Mackerel, Soles, Herrings, Salmon, Carp, Tench, Plaice, Mullet, Flounders, Meat. Lamb, Beef, AUG Mutton, Veal, Buck Venifon, U S T. Fiji. Cod, Radiflies, , Onions, Lettuce, All fmall Sallad, All. Pot Herbs. - Parlley, Puillane. Fruit. Straw!',erries. Cherries, Currants, Gnofeberries, Apricots, Apples, Pears. Sorrel, Purflane, Parfley, Allforts of Salladj All forts of Pot Herbs. Fruit* Pears, Applies, Cherries, Strawberriei, Rafberries, Peaches, Neiflarines, Plums, Apricots, GoufebeiTies, Melons. Haddocks, Mackerel, Herring, SkateLIST OF THINGS IN SEASON. 26z Skate, Wild Ducks, Plaice, Pullet, Flounders, Fowls, Thornback, Chickens, Mullet, Leverets, Pike, Rabbits, Carp, Pigeons, Eels, Plovers, Oyfters, Pheafant, Lobfters, Wheat Ears. Cray Fifli, Prawns. Vegetables. Peafe, Poultry. Beans, Moor Game, Kidney BcanS; Turkey Poults, C'.’.bbage, Geefe, Cauliflower, Ducks, Cucumbers, s E P T JVTeat, Lobfters. T AMD, 4 ^ Beef, Poultry, Mutton, Geefe, Veal, Tu ikies. Buck Venifon, Pullets, Fowls, Fifi. Chickens, Cod, Ducks, Haddock, Pigeons, Salmon, Rabbits, Carp, Teal, Tench, Larks, Plaice, Hares, Flounders, Pheafant, Tbornback, Partridge, Skate, Moor Game. Soles, Smelts, Vegetables. Pike, Peafe, Oyfters, Beans, Mufh rooms, All forts of Salad, Sprouts, All fort> of Herbs, Carrots, Dill, Turnips, Potatoes, Spillage. Radiflies, FruH. Finochia, ^ Pears, Scorzonera, Apples, Salfafy, Peaches, Onions, Neiftariiies, Garlic, Plums, Efchalot, Grapes, Artichokes, Celery, Filberts, Endive, M.dben les, Soirel, Goofeberrics, Pai Iley, Currants, Purflane, Melons. E M B E R. Kidney Beans, Finochia, Cauliflower, I.ettuce, and all Cabbages, forts of Salad, Sprouts, All forts of Herb* Carrots, Rad fhes. Tuinij s, Fruit. Parfnips, Currants, Potatoes, Plums, Artichokes, Peaches, Cucumbers, Peais, Mufh rooms, Apj les. Efchalpts, Grapes, Oi.ions, Figs, • Leeks, Walnuts, Garlic,. Filberts, Scorzonera, Hazle Nuts, Salfafy, Mtdhrs Cardoons, Quinces, Endive, Lazarules, Celery, Chei ries. Parfley, Melons. O C T O BLIST OF THINGS IN SEASON, OCTOBER. Ffe.it, Cockles. Cauliflower, Chard Beets, I3ORK, Brocoli, Beets, X Lamb, Poultry. Savoys, Finochia, Mutton, Turkies, Sprouts, Ciiervil, Beef, (Jeefe, Colewort, Mullirooms, Veal, Pigeons, Carrots, Lctnice & fmall Doe Venifon. Pullets, T urnips, Salad, Fijh. Fowls, Potatoes, All Sorts of Salmon Trout, Chickens, Parfnips, , Herbs. Smelts, Wild Ducks, Skirret, Fruit. Carp, Teal, Salfafy, Pears, Tench, Widgeon, Scorzonera, Apples, Doree, Lark«, Turnip-rooted Peaches, Berber, W oodcocks, and Black Spa- Figs, Holobet, Snipes, nifh Radiflt, Medlars. Brills, Hares, SomcArtichokes Services, Gudgeons, Pkeafants, Onions, Quinces, Pike, Partridges, Leeks, Bullace, Perch, Dotterel., Efchalot, Grapes, Lobltere, Rabbits. Rocombole, Walnuts, Oyfters, Vegetailes. Celery, Filberts, Mufcles, Cabbage, Endive, Nuts. NOVEMBER. Meat. Gudgeons, HOufe Lamb Lubtlers, Porlc, Ojfter^, liccf, Mutton, Veal. ' Fife. Salmon, Salmon Trout, Carp, Tench, Pike. Gurnet, Doree, iHolobet, I Berber, Smelts, Cockles, Mufeies. Poultry. Turkies, Geefe, Fowls, Pullets, Chickens, Pigeons, Wild Ducks, Teal, Widgeon, Woodcocks, Snipes, Larks,. Dotterels, Hares, Pheafants, Partridges, Rabbits. Vegetables. Cabbages, Savo) s, Borecol, .Sprouts, Colewort, Cauliflower, Spinage, Jcrufalcm Arti- chokes, Carrots, Turnips, Parfnips, Potatoes, Sa.Tafy, Skirrets, Sc''rzonera, Onions, Leeks, Efchalot, Rocombolc, Beet, Chard Beet, Cardobns, Parfley, Celery, Crefles, Endive, Chervil, Lettuce and.Onall Salad,X 3«4 LIST OF THINGS IN SEASON. All forts of Herbs Apples, Fruit. Bulhice, Pears, . Chcfnut?, Hazle Nuts, W^aliiut-s, Medlar*, Services, Grapes. DECEMBER. t H Beef, Meat. Eeb Oufe Lamb, Oyilers, Pork, Mutton, Ve?.l, Doe Venifon. FJh. C<'cklcs, Mufdts. Poultry, Turkies, Gcefe, Widgeon, Dotterels, Larks, Wild Ducks. Vegetahlet. Efchalot, Rocombole, Celery, Endive, Spinage, Beets, Purple and whiteCrefles, Brocoli, Lettuce andfmali Haddocks, ' Pullets, Cabbages, ' Sallad, Cod, Capons, Savoys, Pot Herb®, Codlings, Soles, Fowls, Chickens, Borecole, Carrots, Cardcons., Carp, Pigeons, Par flips, Frvit, Smelts, Raljbits, Woodcocks, Turnips, Aj^ples, Gurnets, Pv)tatoes, Pears, Sturgeon, Snipes, Skirrets, ' Medlars, Dorees, Hares Scorzonera, Services, Elolobets, Partridges, Salfafy, Chefiuu®, Berbet, Gudgeons, Pheafant, Teal, Leeks, Gnions, Grapes. FINIS..dO.