v>(r>tF7 < v rl TTT^rj-A /1 S . <sQv- Ait it vrtti Ruttr trf itrfiDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b22021061MEMOIR OF THE LIEE OF JOHN GORDON, M. D.Of*? ? **/ J!,•*! %■ *•jraMW ©©IRBBF Uc Published- l».vA Countable &C?' Jaa^ 18li3 it*ft- b\MEMOIR OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS OF JOHN GORDON, M.D. F.R.S.E. LATE LECTURER ON ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY IN EDINBURGH. BY DANIEL ELLIS, F.R.S.E. Sfc. fyc. EDINBURGH: PRINTED FOR ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE AND CO. AND HURST, ROBINSON, AND CO. LONDON. 1823.Printed by J. Hutchison, for the Heirs of D. Willison.TO JOHN THOMSON, M.D.F.R.S.E. §c. fyc. fyc. DEAR SIR, Permit me to inscribe to you this Memoir, written chiefly on your sug- gestion, and indebted to you for much of the information it contains. As the ‘ guide, phi- 4 losopher and friend, ’ of the lamented indi- vidual whose brief history it records, no one possessed equal opportunities of observing his conduct, or watched his progress in life with greater pride and pleasure. To you he owed counsel and assistance in all his studies and pursuits; and by your example he was formed to those habits of patient industry, and that emulous zeal for knowledge, which led him on, with assured step, to the emi- nence he so early obtained. To no one, therefore, can this record of his life proveDEDICATION. more interesting, nor can any one better ap- preciate its general propriety and truth. It was not without much hesitation and diffidence that I undertook this melancholy duty: But if you, and those who hold in honoured remembrance the name of our \ friend, shall approve my humble endeavour, it will yield me the truest satisfaction. And while I feel proud in thus associating my name with his, I rejoice in the opportunity afforded me of declaring the very high re- spect and regard with which I have the honour to be, / DEAR SIR, Your very faithful, and obedient Servant, January 1st.? 1823. i D. E.MEMOIR, &c. J ohn Gordon, M.D. was the third son of John Gordon Esq. of Edintore, wine-mer- chant and banker in Forres, and was born in that town on the 19th of April 1786. His mo- ther was Elizabeth Arnot, daughter of James Arnot, Esq. of Dalwhatswood, in the parish of Loudon, Ayrshire; a gentleman who, to his other occupations, added that of factor to the Earl of Loudon, and enjoyed much of his confidence. After receiving the first rudi- ments of domestic education, Dr Gordon was placed under the tuition of Mr Shand, a teacher of considerable eminence, then re- siding at Forres, but, at present, Rector of AMEMOIR OF 2 the Academy at Tain. Under this gentle- man, he began the study of the Latin lan- guage, in the grammar school of Forres, in November 1793, where he continued, applying to the acquisition of the learned languages, and of writing and arithmetic, till the end of the year 1799, when he was removed to the University. On his arrival in Edinburgh, he resided with his eldest brother, the late Robert Gor- don, Esq. writer to the signet, who, in every thing that related to his welfare and improvement, manifested, on all occasions, the anxiety of a father. Having entered at the University, he prosecuted his classi- cal studies under the late Dr Hill and Mr Dalzel, who, at that period, filled respec- tively the Chairs of Humanity and Greek. At the same time, he began the study of Ma- thematics under the late Mr Laidlaw, well known as an able and successful teacher; and with him he continued about two years. Being destined to the profession of Medi-JOHN GORDON, M.D. 3 cine, he had the good fortune to commence his studies in that science, under the auspices of Dr Thomson, Professor of Military Sur- gery in this University, with whom he be- came an apprentice in the year 1801. ‘In ‘ that capacity, * says Dr Thomson, (in a communication with which he favoured me), ‘ he continued to prosecute, under my direc- ‘ tion, his general and medical studies for a ‘ period of four years. While serving with ‘ me, he had the good fortune to have for his ‘ fellow-apprentices, several young men, e- ‘ minently correct as himself in moral con- ‘ duct, equally anxious to distinguish them- ‘ selves by diligence in study, and to merit ‘ my approbation by a strict attention to ‘ their duties. In the discharge of the mul- ‘ tifarious little offices which young men, in ‘ the situation of apprentices, have to per- ‘ form, no one has ever appeared to me to ‘ possess, in an equal degree with Dr Gor- ‘ don, the power of executing what was in- ‘ trusted to his care. The performance of4 MEMOIR OF 6 his duties never seemed to give him any ‘ trouble; and nothing could exceed the ‘ punctuality with which they were dischar- ‘ ged. ’ Soon after this period, Dr Gordon began his attendance on the medical classes in the University; and he farther availed himself of the other opportunities of medical instruction which the school of Edinburgh affords, by attending, in succession, the lectures deliver- ed on Anatomy by Dr Barclay; on Surgery by Dr Thomson ; and on Chemistry by the late lamented Dr Murray; men who, by their labours and writings, have largely con- tributed to uphold the reputation which Edin- burgh, as a medical school, continues to en- joy. * During this period too, Dr Gordon * The name of Dr Murray recals so many recollections, that I cannot deny myself the gratification of paying a slight tribute of respect to the memory of one whose friend- ship I so highly valued. By the steady exertion of emi- nent talents, he had earned a distinguished reputation; and, to the sincere regret of all who knew him, closed a life of great activity and usefulness at an age when he was best qualified to enjoy and augment his fame.JOHN GORDON, M.D. 5 became a student of Natural and Moral Phi- losophy, the former taught, at that time, by the late Mr Robison, and the latter by Mr Dusyald Stewart. . For more than twenty years he delivered Lectures on Materia Medica and Chemistry, in this city, with the great- est applause; and, as well by the Works which he published, as by his Lectures, advanced greatly the sciences which he cultivated and taught. As a teacher of Chemistry, he pos- sessed very peculiar powers. Profoundly skilled in the science, he exhibited unrivalled facility in the communica- tion of it. The ease, clearness, and fluency with which he spoke were truly surprising. There seemed to exist within him a perennial spring of thought, which, with- out effort or parade, poured itself forth in one continued stream of perspicous expression. His mind, indeed, was so active, and he put so much of it into all he said or did, that he kept every other mind on the alert also. This rare and genuine talent was accompanied in him by a simplicity of character almost as rare, and not less truly genuine. He had nothing within or about him that repelled approach, or kept at a distance those who might desire information. On the contrary, he was all frankness, courtesy and ease—ever ready to advise or in- struct his pupils—to listen to their difficulties, clear up their doubts, and encourage and aid their private efforts at improvement. From these various causes, no teacher of his time possessed a higher reputation for talent with his pupils, was more sincerely respected by them, or will live longer in their grateful remembrance. ItMEMOIR OF 6 In the year 1S03, Dr Gordon was elected a member of the Medical Society—an Insti- tution highly favourable to the development of talent, and contributing, in no ordinary degree, to that inquiring disposition, and in- dependent mode of thinking on medical sub- It was only towards the latter years of his life, that he had leisure to devote much time to original investigation ; and then, unhappily, disease had made such inroads on a frame naturally delicate, that nothing less than a mind of unusual activity and vigour could have borne him through the labours which he actually accomplished. His beautiful experiments on the communication of heat through liquids ; and his new views on the composition of mineral waters, derived from an examination of the modes in which the ordinary results of analysis may be modified in the succes- sive stages of the process, are well known ■ to chemists, and afford ample evidence of the acuteness with which he contemplated the phenomena of the science, and the skill and ability which he exerted in removing its imperfections : While his discussions on the prevailing theories of Geo- logy ; on the nature and relations of Oxymuriatic Acid; on the theory of Acidity ; and, more especially, the philoso- phical views of chemical doctrine exhibited in his excellent 1 System of Chemistry, ’ do equal credit to the depth and extent of his knowledge, and to his talent for arrangement and generalization in the most difficult departments of the science.7 JOHN GORDON, M. D. jects, which have ever been leading character- istics of the Edinburgh school. This Society arose out of a private meeting of medical students, who, so far back as the autumn of the year 1734, assembled, at first once a fort- night, to read an Essay, written by one of its members, on some subject connected with their studies. Of these students Dr A. Rus- sel, the natural historian of Aleppo,' and Dr George Cleghorn, author of a well known work on the Diseases of Minorca, were a- mong the most distinguished. The follow- ing year, viz. 1735, Dr John Fothergill and Dr Cullen became members of it; and thus this private meeting laid the foundation of the Medical Society, which became more for- mally incorporated the year after, and has flourished ever since to the great advance- ment of medical science in this University. * In this Society, all subjects connected with medical science are submitted to the freest discussion, without any other reserve than • History of the Medical Society. Edinburgh, 1820.MEMOIR OF 8 that which the necessary rules of debate im- pose. The prevailing opinions in medicine are canvassed with the utmost freedom, and the students maybe said often to sit as ju- rors on the doctrines even of their teachers. If the confidence and inexperience of youth sometimes betray into error, it is likely, at least, to be less permanent than that which results from the timidity and prejudice of age. Hence it has happened, that opinions and theories in medicine have been gravely de- livered from professorial Chairs long after their fallacies had been detected, and their principles abandoned by those to whom they were addressed. ‘ At the establishment ‘ of the Medical Society, ’ says a venerable member * of that Body, ‘ the system of Boer- ‘ haave maintained in Europe a sway as uni- * versal as that of Galen had done before. ‘ But the founders of this Institution, while ‘ they were far from being the least sensible ‘ of the high merit of so great a master, did * Dr Duncan, senior.9 JOHN GORDON, M. D. 4 not hesitate to shake off a blind veneration ‘ for his errors. Reason, philosophy and ex- 4 periment were their constant, and their only 4 guides. By these means, by such men, 4 and in this place, were the foundations of 4 theBoerhaavian doctrine first shaken. ’ ' Of these men, the most distinguished was the il- lustrious Cullen, who embraced early the doc- trines of Hoffman, and, in the year 1755, when he succeeded to a Medical Chair, first publicly taught them in this University, at a time when the system of Boerhaave still subsisted in its full and entire force. At a still later period, Dr Cullen himself advan- ced a system which superseded that of his great predecessors ; and again, in this Society, this new system, even during the lifetime of its author, first encountered that opposition which made it 4 totter to its fall ’—a fate which shortly overtook the system cf Brown that had supplanted it, and for a time bore al- most undisputed sway. In the proceedings and discussions of this society, Dr GordonMEMOIR OF 10 distinguished himself as well by his know- ledge and ingenuity, as by the ease and grace- fulness of his elocution. He read before it, at different times, the allotted number of dis- sertations; all of which exhibited that patient research and discriminating judgment which marked his subsequent efforts. Dr Gordon’s studies were originally direc- ted with the view of his filling a medical sta- tion in the service of the East India Company. In prosecution of this plan, he went through the usual examinations, and obtained a di- ploma from the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh in the spring of 1805 ; and on the 24th of June of the same year, he pro- ceeded to the degree of Doctor in Medicine in the University. In conversations with Dr Gordon about this period, Dr Thomson found that he was by no means bent on going to India; and that, in his contemplation, the measure seem- ed to be a matter rather of necessity than of choice. From the opportunities he had pos-11 JOHN GORDON, M. D. -sessed of witnessing the talents of Dr Gor- don, his more favourite pursuits, and the diligence which he displayed in the prosecu- tion of them, it occurred to Dr Thomson to suggest to him the idea of his becoming a lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in Edin- burgh. This idea he readily embraced, and at once set about endeavouring to persuade his friends to abandon the plan of his going out to India. So entirely was he satisfied with this change of plan, and so eager to enter on the new career suggested to him, that he began immediately to study Anatomy, and practise Dissection, with the view of qualify- ing himself to teach that fundamental branch of medical science. The better to accom- plish this object, he determined to spend a winter in London, where the facilities of studying practical anatomy are much greater than can be commanded here. He accord- ingly set out for the British metropolis in the winter of 1805; and having, as appears from his letters to Professor Thomson, visited all12 MEMOIR OF the great hospitals, and made particular in- quiries respecting their establishments for dis- section, his choice for the study of anatomy, was fixed on the Theatre in Great Windmill Street, to which Dr Baillie and Mr Cruick- shank formerly gave celebrity; and which, at this time, was under the able direction of the late Mr Wilson. ‘ These dissecting rooms,’ says he, £ seem so well supplied with subjects, * are apparently so comfortable, and the pu- ‘ pils are so much to my mind, that I have ‘ resolved to become one of the party. ’ Of these pupils, many were his countrymen and acquaintance; and with them he prosecuted his anatomical studies with unwearied assi- duity. He always estimated highly the in- struction he had gained, and spoke even of the pleasure he had received, from attendance on Mr Wilson’s Lectures. In a letter dated February 1806, he says to Professor Thom- son,—‘ Mr Wilson has given an interest to osteology of which I could hardly have con- ceived it susceptible; and his lectures on13 JOHN GOKDON, M. D. muscles and their actions, with which he is now occupied, are very far superior to any thing on that subject I have ever heard or read. ’ No greater praise can be rendered to a public teacher than that of imparting in- terest to those parts of his lectures which are the least susceptible of it; and the student who can be thus pleased with the least at- tractive portion, is in the best disposition to derive the greatest improvement. In this school too, Dr Gordon became acquainted with Mr Brodie, then acting as demonstrator in Mr Wilson’s rooms, and with that dis- tinguished physiologist he continued ever af- ter to cultivate an intimate correspondence. At the same time, he attended lectures on Comparative Anatomy by Dr Macartney, whose subsequent removal to Dublin has con- tributed so much to the rising reputation of that University, as a medical school. But although chiefly devoted to anatomical pursuits, during his residence in London, Dr Gordon’s letters show that no subject con- B14 MEMOIR OF nected with medical literature, or the prac- tice of medicine or surgery, escaped his notice. He details information of every kind, and describes many important operations which he had witnessed by the eminent surgeons at- tached to the different hospitals of the metro- polis. He returned to Edinburgh in the summer of 180G, and, through that summer and the succeeding winter, prosecuted with great zeal his preparatory studies for the du- ties he was about to undertake. In November 1806, he was elected one of the Annual Presidents of the Medical So- ciety—a distinction that is commonly desir- ed with earnestness, and for the most part fairly bestowed, by a free election, on those best entitled to the honour. In this office, I had the c;ood fortune to be associated with him, and the increased intercourse which, in consequence, arose between us, soon ripened an occasional acquaintance into a sincere and permanent friendship. The circumstance too of my having cultivated a small portionJOHN GORDON, M.D. 15 of that field of science in which he exerted himself with so much ardour, served to in- crease the interest we took in each other’s pursuits, and to multiply the occasions of bringing us together. He who has himself been engaged in the doubts and perplexities of original inquiry, can best estimate the va- lue of a friend, ready, at all times,, to hear with patience, and discuss with candour, the yet immature views presented to him ;— to correct with delicacy w hat may be errone- ous—with honesty to suggest what may be deficient—and zealous to approve that which may be just and true. Such was the friend I had found in Dr Gordon, and such too, alas ! is the one I have lost by his death. In the year 1807, Dr Gordon became an inmate in Dr Thomson’s family, in which he continued to reside for several years. Look- ing forward to his future establishment, he had no reason to expect any material assis- tance from his father; and thrown thus, at his very outset in life, on the resources of his Ti 21(5 MEMOIR OF own talents and industry, he was animated to exertion, as well by the necessities of his situation, as by his zeal in the pursuit of know- ledge. During the summer of this year, on the suggestion of Dr Thomson, he gave, by way of trial, some demonstrations in Osteo- logy to a few of his particular friends. The easy style of delivery, the accuracy of state- ment, and methodical arrangement of these demonstrations, soon satisfied his friends that he possessed every qualification necessary in a teacher of anatomy. Encouraged by the approbation he received, he announced, in December of the same year, a course of pub- lic demonstrations in anatomy, which was attended by a small number of pupils. The following winter, to his lectures on Anatomy, he added a short view of Physiology; and he continued to teach those subjects in con- nexion for several years. Being now established in Edinburgh as a Lecturer on Anatomy, Dr Gordon who, as before mentioned, had already obtained a17 JOHN GORDON, M. D. diploma from the Royal College of Sur- geons, was desirous of becoming a member of that Body. With the usual forms he was accordingly admitted a Fellow in October 1808; and, in conformity with the regulati- ons respecting the admission of ordinary mem- bers, he, on this occasion, chose for the sub- ject of his “ Probationary Essay ” the <c Dis- locations of the Thigh-Bone.” Much differ- ence of opinion has prevailed among surgeons on many of the points connected with this se- rious accident, namely, on the several direc- tions in which the head of the bone may be dis- lodged from its socket;—on the position which it then occupies on the bones of the pelvis;— and on the condition of the ligaments, and especially of the muscles, of the part con- cerned. To ascertain these several points, Dr Gordon not only studied the cases re- corded by practical writers, but had recourse to experiments on the dead body, with the view both of verifying the accuracy of their descriptions, and rectifying the discordanceMEMOIR OF 18 that existed among them. Many surgeons have made artificial imitations of luxation on the dried bones of the pelvis and femur, or on the recent bones when deprived of their investing muscular substance. Such experi- ments, however, are fitted only to indicate the obstacles to reduction, from certain promi- nences, and depressions in the bones them- selves; but not to determine, amidst the vio- lent derangement that has been induced, the resistance opposed by muscular action. To discover, therefore, what muscles contributed to retain the head of the bone in its displac- ed situation, and what were most calculated either to oppose, or to favour its return, Dr Gordon produced artificially, on the dead body, the several varieties of luxated femur that occur in practice. Previously, however, to these operations, the soft parts surround- ing the articulation were exposed by dissefc- tion; so that he might be able to mark at once the efficiency of certain parts in resist- ing luxation, the position which the head ofJOHN GORDON, M. D. 19 the bone occupied when the luxation had ta- ken place, and the derangement induced a- mong the muscles. So correctly did this ar- tificial imitation on the dead body correspond with the dislocations that occur in the living subject, that it was found exceedingly diffi- cult, if not altogether impossible, to produce artificially, any other species of dislocation than those which actually present themselves in practice; and the external character of the real accident in the living body, and of its imitation on the dead one, always corres- ponded closely with each other. * Informa- tion thus sought, coupled with accurate ob- servation of the external appearances of the parts, could not fail to improve the means of discriminating the varieties of dislocation to which this joint is exposed; to impart correct notions of the actual position of the displac- * It appears, that Professor Bonn of Amsterdam, (re- ferred to by Professor Turner, in his * Probationary Es- ‘ say ’ on the dislocations of the Shoulder-joint, Edin- burgh, 1812), had previously employed a similar mode of inquiry, in relation to that joint.20 MEMOIR OF ed bone, and especially to exhibit the state and condition of the several muscles, whose relative situations and actions suffer, in these accidents, such great derangement;—all of them circumstances which lead at once to clear conceptions of the real nature of the ac- cident, and suggest the readiest and most ef- fectual modes of relief. This Essay was in- scribed to his friend, the late Mr Allan Burns, Lecturer on Anatomy and Surgery in Glas- gow, whose uncommon zeal and industry in his professional pursuits were well known to the public, and rendered his premature death a subject of deep regret to all who knew his talents and his worth. Dr Gordon continued his studies and his lectures for several years with increasing success, till his rising reputation pointed him out to its late illustrious secretary, as worthy to become a member of the Royal Society; and on the honoured recommendation of Mr Playfair, he was accordingly admitted in January 1812. Soon afterwards, he com-JOHN GORDON, M. D. 21 municated to Professor Dugald Stewart some very interesting observations on the case of James Mitchell, a boy born blind and deaf, which were subsequently read to the Society, and published in its Transactions. In the summer of this year, 1812, Dr Gor- don quitted the family of Dr Thomson, on his marriage with Miss Rutherfurd, which took place in the month of June; a connexion which, having been long founded in mutual esteem and affection, and cemented by simi- larity of tastes and dispositions, realized, through the remaining period of his life, his fondest anticipations, and satisfied his high- est hopes. By this lady he had four chil- dren, of whom one son and two daughters survive their father. In the year 1814, he was a candidate for the situation of one of the junior surgeons of the Royal Infirmary; and, aided by the reputation he had now acquired as a teacher of anatomy, he was in consequence elected. By the regulations of that Establishment atMEMOIR OF 22 that period, the senior surgeons executed the duties of attendance on the sick, and per- formed the capital operations; while to the ju- niors was assigned the duty of acting in the absence of the seniors, of assisting them in their operations, of visiting the patients who require surgical aid in the medical wards, and of preparing for exhibition such cases of morbid dissection as occurred in the hospi- tal, and might be deemed interesting for the illustration of disease. For this latter office, Dr Gordon’s previous acquirements eminent- ly fitted him, and it is often one of conside- rable difficulty and importance. The simple exhibition indeed of a morbid part is fre- quently a matter of no great difficulty; but to display it, when distorted by disease, in the manner that shall best exhibit its altered stateto be able accurately to compare this state with that of the same part in health;— to trace minutely the changes of structure it has undergone, and discriminate truly be- tween appearances merely casual, and thoseJOHN GORDON, M. D. Z3 which result from morbid causes—these re- quire not only an experienced eye, but a practised hand, and a mind ready and saga- cious in extracting, from the appearances observed, the true indications they afford. Physicians, for the most part, are so much occupied with general notions of disease, and have so slight an acquaintance with practical anatomy, that they are apt to undervalue, or unable fully to appreciate the information which morbid dissections supply; yet the suc- cess and reputation of Morgagni and Lieu- taud in former days, and of Baillie and Fan e in our own, may suggest, that not the pro- fession only, but the public also, know how to appreciate such labours. Too often in- deed, it must still be confessed, morbid dis- section fails in affording the information ex- pected from it; for, sufficient as our know- ledge of anatomy may have become for the purposes of the operative surgeon, the phy- siologist and pathologist must continue to la- ment its imperfections, considered in relation to the functions of the system in health andMEMOIR OF 24 disease. Nevertheless, a deep sense of the importance of morbid anatomy, to the im- pi’ovement not only of practical medicine, but of physiology, rendered Dr Gordon al- ways eager to embrace opportunities of mor- bid dissection. How much to the satisfac- tion of his Colleagues in the Infirmary, he performed this duty, may be learned from the honourable tribute rendered to his me- mory by Dr Duncan junior, in his late valu- able 4 Reports of the practice in the Clini- 4 cal Wards of the Royal Infirmary of E- * dinburgh.’—‘ The dissections contained in 4 the Appendix to these Reports, ’ says Dr Duncan, 4 I consider very valuable. To me 4 they are particularly interesting, as being 4 the last fruits of my professional intercourse 4 with the late Dr John Gordon, whose zeal 4 and science as a pathological anatomist, 4 qualified him so eminently for the situa- 4 tion he filled in the Hospital, and whose 4 private virtues made him most beloved by 4 those who knew him best. * * * Reports, &c. p. 51. Edinburgh, 1818.JOHN GORDON, M.D. 25 From the time that Dr Gordon began to lecture on Anatomy, he resolved to endeavour to supply a want, which he had himself felt as a student of that science. This was an t accurate and scientific elementary work on Anatomy, which should not only exhibit a full view of the science as taught in this country, but embrace also the latest discove- ries and improvements of the Continental A- natomists. To say nothing of the informa- tion to be found in the various detached Es- says published on the Continent, we have no elementary work, which, in point of extent and accuracy, can be compared with those of Mayer, Hildebrandt, Loder, Sommerring, Portal, or Bichat. To select, arrange, and combine the valuable materials contained in the writings of these, and other Continent- al anatomists, and, as far as possible, to ve- rify their accuracy and make them his own by the most minute and scrupulous investiga- tion, was the unceasing object of Dr Gor- don’s labours. All his dissections, with this c-MEMOIlt OF 25 view, were made with the works of the best systematic authors lying before him; and, in addition to these, he had constant recourse to the particular works of Albinus, Haller, Meckel, Wrisberg, Prochaska, the Wenzels, Reil, Mascagni, Scarpa, &c. authors whose discoveries and improvements have not yet been fully incorporated with British ana- tomy. In prosecution of this design, Dr'Gordon published, in the year 1815, the first volume of a work, entitled, ‘A System of Human Ana- tomy. * The descriptions and facts contained in this volume, he states to be, inmost in- stances, the result of (Observations and experi- ments made directly on the human body by himself; but as to those subjects which he had not hitherto enjoyed opportunities of in- vestigating to his own satisfaction, he has re- ferred to the observations of others, on whose accuracy he placed the most reliance. The work throughout, is purely anatomical, with- out any admixture of physiological matter;27 JOHN. GORDON,. M. D. and was intended,, by the author, as a manual for his Public Lectures. In a short introductory chapter, the author gives, what he considers, a just distinction be- tween bodies called Living and Dead. Those bodies he regards as Living, in which a cer- tain appropriation of foreign matter is going on ; and those as Dead, in which this process has either ceased, or never existed. Living Bodies, as every one knows, are divided in- to two great classes, Animal and Vegetable;— those being, in a general way, denominated animal, which appear, capable of sensation and ideas; and those vegetable, which do not seem susceptible of these phenomena. He next proposes to denominate the science which treats of Living Bodies, Vital Eco- nomy; which divides itself into two parts. Animal Economy, and Vegetable Economy; each of which comprehends two distinct ob- jects of investigation, Anatomy and Physi- ology. Animal Anatomy is further divided into Human and Comparative, or that which c 2MEMOIR OF 28 treats of man only, and that which compares the structure of animals with each other, and with man. The work before us was confin- ed to Human Anatomy alone. The arrangement adopted in this wrork differs, I believe, from any that has preceded it in this country. The human body, a9 is well known, consists of a vast variety of or- gans, which in form, size and structure, dif- fer essentially from each other. These di-? versities however arise, not from differences in the simple or elementary parts which com- pose them; but chiefly from the varied modes and proportions in which these parts are combined and arranged. The primary parts themselves are few in number, and common to almost all the compound organs; and hence the author proceeds to exhibit, in the first place, a general account of them. With this view, he divides the materials of this volume into two parts—the Jirst of which treats of the External Form, the Stature, and Weight of the body;—and the second delivers29 JOHN GORDON, M.D. the anatomy, in general, of the Common Sys- tems and Common Textures. By the common systems, are understood those three great elementary parts which enter into the construction of particular organs, and are usually denominated the Vascular, the Ab- sorbent, and Nervous systems. Under these heads, therefore, the author treats succes- sively of the heart and blood-vessels—of the absorbent vessels, and th£ glands attached to them—and of the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerves. Of these elementary systems, various tex- tures are composed, some of which are distri- buted very generally, and others almost uni- versally, through the body. They serve prin- cipally, either to connect together the ele- mentary organs, to cover and protect them, to give form and stability to the body, or to promote and facilitate its movements. In succession, therefore, they are treated of un- der the titles of the Anatomy of Cellular Sub- stance and Adipose Substance; of Muscle,30 MEMOIR OF of Skin, and of Hair; of Cartilage, of Bone, and of Tendon; and the volume concludes with the Anatomy of Serous and Synovial Membrane. * Such are the subjects of this first volume, which contained only two of the eight parts which the whole work was designed to em- brace. The remaining six parts would have treated successively of the anatomy of the Skeleton, and of the Muscles as attached to * The ancients, says M. Magendie, believed all the solids capable of being reduced, in the last analysis, to a simple fibre ; an idea admitted by Haller, who regarded this fibre, however, as invisible, and cognizable by the mind alone. By modifications of this simple fibre, secondary fibres, which received particular denominations, were held to be formed. M. Pinel is said first to have conceived the idea of dis- tinguishing the organic solids, not by fibres, but by tissues or systems. This idea was adopted by Bichat, who applied it to all the solid parts of the body. It has subsequently received correction and improvement from Dupuytren and Bicherand, who enumerate eleven primary tissues or sys- tems, which, by their association with one another, and with the fluids, compose the several organs or instruments of life.— Precis, Elem, de Fkysiologie, t. 1 >pp> 8,9, 10.31 JOHfr GORDON, M. D. it; of the several Viscera of the body ; of the Integuments which invest it; and of the Blood- vessels, Absorbents, and Nerves, as distributed to individual parts and organs. The methods of inspecting the body after natural or violent death, the process of Embalming, and the modes of preparing and preserving parts for anatomical uses, with directions for a course of Practical Anatomy, would have been sub- joined ; and the work was destined to termi- nate with an Historical View of the science it had previously detailed. For this comprehensive plan, the materials were in great part provided. Every writer within his reach, whether systematical or par- ticular, it was the author’s desire to consult; but it was also his wish to verify, as far as possible, the accuracy of their descriptions, and to make them his own by actual exa- mination. This conscientious desire to do the utmost justice to the subject, necessarily delayed the progress of the work. At the period, however, of Dr Gordon’s death, theMEMOIR OF 32 greater part of the difficulties had been over- come. The third part, comprehending the Anatomy of the Skeleton, was announced for publication, and exists among his MSS. in a state nearly ready for the press; and, had the author’s life been spared, the remaining parts, which were in great forwardness, would have followed at no distant intervals. In an elementary work of this kind, the chief merit must consist not in original dis- covery, but in the general plan and arrange- ment of the materials, and the perspicuity and precision with which the subject is treat- ed. To me it appears, that the arrangement adopted in the present instance is entitled to great praise. The reader is first made ac- quainted w’ith the simpler parts, and pro- ceeds gradually to more complex structures, which enables him to follow with greater fa- cility, and to appreciate more justly, not on- ly their general relations, but the particular combinations into which they enter, and the uses they serve in the construction of other33 JOHN GORDON, M.D. organs. Nothing can exceed the general perspicuity and conciseness of the descrip- tive language employed by Dr Gordon in this work. He uniformly addresses himself to the eye, avoids all discussion of questions of doubt and opinion, and enters into mi- nute details with a clearness and precision which those only who write from actual ob- servation can command. Some parts, as those of the brain and nervous system, are very elaborately treated. The author had not only consulted all the best writers, but submitted, to the test of actual examination, the accuracy of every description connected with the anatomy of that organ, His de- scriptions of it will, therefore, be found much more minute than those of any preceding British writer. Some, perhaps, may regard them as too refined and elaborate, especial- ly for an elementary work ; and we think the convenience of the reader would have been consulted, had the subject been broken into smaller sections, instead of forming, as it now does, one continuous demonstration.34 J.OHN GORDON, M.D. In his account of the Anatomy, of the Com- mon Textures, Dr Gordon dissents, in seve- ral particulars,, from his predecessors in re- gard to the structure of the skin. This or- gan, as is well known, consists of two parts —the cutis, or, true skin, which is a highly or- ganized substance; and the cuticle, or scarf- skin, which,, on the closest inspection, exhi- bits no appearance either of fibres, of ves- sels, or of nerves. In the true skin, the hairs are formed, and penetrate to the sur- face through the cuticle; and on certain parts also, small apertures, connected with the sebaceous follicles of the true skin, are visible in the cuticle: . but, with the late Mr Cruickshank, Dr Gordon denies that any, distinct pores are visible, either by . the naked eye or the microscope, in the cuticular mem- brane—an opinion also maintained by Pro- fessor Rudolph! of Berlin. Between the skin and cuticle, when sepa- rated from each other, delicate colourles fil- aments may be seen. These were regarded, by the late Dr Hunter as vessels through.35 JOHN GORDON, M.D. Which the sweat was exhaled'; and by Ml' Cruikshank as fine processes of cuticle which lined the pores of the true skin; but, ac- cording to ‘Dr Gordon, they are neither ves- sels, nor processes of the cuticle, but mere threads of mucous matter, which always form between the cuticle and true skin after death, in consequence of decomposition. It is now more than a century ago since the illustrious Malpighi described a layer of substance, as intervening between the cu- ticle and true skin, to which was given the name of corpus mucosum vel reticulare. In the Negro, this substance was affirmed to be black, and of various lighter hues in the o- ther varieties of the human race; and to its particular colour the varied complexions of the skin were generally ascribed. In the Ne- gro, the Caffre, and the Malay, Dr Gordon satisfied himself, by many dissections, that a black membrane exists, to which the colour of black men is, no doubt, owing; but he was not able to find any light coloured retsMEMOIR OF 36 mucosum, corresponding to this black one, in the inhabitants of Great Britain, nor in those of other nations resembling them in colour. Doubts respecting the existence of a specific colouring matter in the white races of man- kind, analogous to the black substance of the Negro, occurred also to Mr Lawrence; * and Professor Rudolphi f asserts, with Dr Gor- don, that no such part as a Rete mucosum ex- ists in white people. $ I have selected these few examples to show that Dr Gordon, in his anatomical pursuits, constantly examined for himself every sub- ject that came under his notice; and that, with a due feeling of respect and observance • Lectures on the Nat. LList. of Man, p. 276. j Edip. Phil. Journ. v. 1. p. 214. | From a number of experiments, Dr Gordon also be, came convinced, that the alleged continuation of synovial membrane over the surface of articulating cartilages, (more than hinted at by Drs Nesbit and Hunter, and confidently maintained by Bichat), was altogether an anatomical refine- ment ; ‘ and he believed the supposed ’ continuation of ‘ the ‘ tunica conjunctiva over the cornea of the eye, a fiction of ' the same kind. Syst. of Anat. vol. l. p. 261.37 JOHN GORDON, M. D. towards others, he combined always that sa- gacity of observation, and soundness of judg- ment, which enabled him to improve on the labours of those who had gone before him. This work, the most important in which he had been engaged, Dr Gordon inscribed to his first and best friend, Professor Thomson, by whose counsel and guidance he had been directed in all his scientific undertakings, and towards whom he always felt and expressed the sincerest respect and gratitude. The next work of an anatomical nature from the pen of Dr Gordon, was called forth by the claims of two German physicians, whose alleged discoveries in the anatomy of the Brain, coupled with certain opinions as to the nature of its functions, had excited much interest in different parts of Europe. These gentlemen, after having made known their doctrines in the various Universities of Ger- £>38 MEMOIR OF many, visited Paris, and exhibited to the A- natomists of that city their alleged disco- veries. These so far excited the attention of the National Institute, that, in the year 1808, a Committee of five members, with M. Cu- vier at their head, was appointed to exa- mine and report on them. Accordingly, 4 Drs Gall and Spurzheim,7 say the Report- ers, * dissected the brain in our presence, 4 and we dissected it before them; and we * afterwards re-examined, by ourselves, the 4 observations they communicated to us. 7 The results of these examinations are em- bodied in three conclusions, with which the Committee terminate their Report. * In these conclusions, the anatomical merit of Drs Gall and Spurzheim is made first to consist, 4 not in having discovered, but in having re- 4 called to the attention of Physiologists,5 opinions, long since entertained, of the fi- brous structure of the brain, and of the de- cussation of certain nervous filaments of the * See Appendix No. I.39 JOHN GORDON, M. D> pyramidal eminences :—secondly, in distin- guishing too orders of fibres, of which, we are told, the hemispheres of the brain c ap- ‘ pearJ to be composed :—and, thirdly, in making it probable * that the cerebral nerves ascend from the medulla oblongata* rather than descend from the brain ; and that* in general, the nerves do not come original- ly from the brain. This small measure of praise, in which nothing new is stated to be discovered, but only certain facts recalled to attention, and some questionable opinions declared to be more or less probable, disap- pointed the sanguine expectations of Messrs Spurzheim and Gall; and drew from them a quarto volume of 274> pages, wholly occu- pied with a criticism on the decision of the Committee. I am not, however, aware that this laborious effort changed, in any re- spect, the opinions of the French anatomists; and yet, by many in this country, the al- leged discoveries of Gall and Spurzheim have been held to receive general, support D. 2:40 MEMOIR OF from the investigations of the Anatomists of France. In 18 J 5, Dr Spurzheim introduced the doctrines of his colleague and himself to the notice of this country, by the publication of a work entitled, ‘ The Physiognomical Sys- ‘ tern of Drs Gall and Spurzheim, by F. G-. ‘ Spurzheim, M. D.,’ which was prefaced with a short outline of their views of the anatomy of the brain. Still farther to make known his doctrines, Dr Spurzheim delivered Lec- tures upon them, and exhibited demonstra- tions of the brain in London and Dublin ; and in 1817, he made his appearance in Edinburgh. Soon after his arrival, he ex- pressed to Dr Thomson a wish to exhibit a demonstration of the brain, and was soon fur- nished with the opportunity, and accommo- dated with the use of Dr Thomson’s theatre for the purpose, where he gave two demon- strations of that organ. Dr Gordon, with a great number of persons, both professional! and others, were present. The dissectionJOHN GORDON, M. D. 41 was made with considerable dexterity; and the order pursued in it was so different from that usually followed in this country, that it excited much interest, and impressed many with the belief of great discovery in the ana- tomy of that organ. It cannot be denied, that, even by profes- sional persons in this country, the anatomy of the brain has been studied only in a very general manner; nor is it difficult to assign a reason for it. It is justly observed by the Committee of the French Institute, that ‘ none of those, who have examined the brain, have succeeded in establishing a ra- tional and positive relation between the struc- ture of that organ and its functions, even those which are most evidently physical; and the discoveries hitherto made known with respect to it, are confined to some cir- cumstances regarding the form, connexions, and texture of its parts.* Hence the study of this organ has not commonly been carried farther than the acquisition of such a know-MEMOIR OF 42 ledge of the relative position and natural ap- pearances of its several parts, as might be useful in the consideration of their morbid changes ; and to professional men, therefore, in general, many parts of the demonstra- tions of Gall and Spurzheim appeared as new as to those without the pale of the profes- sion. Nor does this ignorance of the mi- nute structure of the brain appear to have been peculiar to this country ; for Dr Spurz- heim himself, after having visited most of the great cities on the Continent, in order to make known his opinions, has taken upon him unequivocally to assert, that, ‘ till our days, only the external forms of the brain were known, and the internal structure of its parts was quite overlooked. ’ * Without go- ing quite so far as Dr Spurzheim on this point, I am ready to admit, that but few were prepared, by previous knowledge, to estimate the real merits of his demonstrations; and consequently many were disposed to re- * Physiognomical System, Introduction, p.43 JOHN GORDON, M. D. gard as discovery, all that to them was pre- viously unknown, and to receive as demon- stration whatsoever was declared to exist. Without wishing, in the smallest degree, unduly to exalt Dr Gordon’s merit, and still less to depreciate that of his contemporaries, I may venture to express my opinion, that, from particular circumstances, no individual in this country was, at the period alluded to, so well prepared as himself to estimate the real merits of Dr Spurzheim’s demonstra- tions. It has been already stated, that while engaged in drawing up the article on the Anatomy of the Brain for his System, he had been long and laboriously occupied in the study of all the later writers on that or- gan, from Vieussens and Malpighi, down to Reil and Gall; and the representations given in their works, he had sought to verify by actual examination. * He was thus not on- * With the exception of the three last papers of Profes- sor Reil on the Structure of the Brain, which did not ap- pear till 1812, Dr Gordon had perused all his Memoirs onHEMOIR OF 44 ly informed of what had been done by o- thers, but of the methods they had severally employed. Parts therefore, and appearances* which seemed new to many, were quite fa- miliar to him • and methods of preparation and dissection, commenced by Vieussens, and carried so far by Reil, though, in general, unknown at that time in this country, and apparently to the anatomists of France, had been studied by him with the greatest care, that subject, and prepared different parts of the brain in the manner described by that author. He did not, how- ever, introduce an account of them into his work, as he was desirous of prosecuting still farther the experiments of Reil, and procuring the papers then only promised,. and which he afterwards obtained. While the part of the vo- lume, which relates to the Brain, was in the press, he ob- tained also the large work on the Brain, by M. M. Gall and Spurzheim. On comparing, however, the plates in that work with the appearances in nature, he found, (as he has expressed in a note, p. 129 of his work on Anatomy), ‘ that these authors had omitted several important parts al- * together; that others were represented indistinctly; and ‘ that there was scarcely a plate in the series, in which * there were not considerable inaccuracies. ’45 JOHN GORDON, M. D. and even successfully practised. Thus in- structed, he was able at once to distinguish what was announced as new, from what was truly original—to separate mere appearan- ces of structure from actual realities—tocheck any disposition to pass off assertion for fact'— and finally to detect and expose the art and fallacy of mixing, with avowed demonstra- tion, hypothetical notions of structure deriv- ed from the fancy alone, and which no dex- terity could display and render visible to the expei'ienced eye. The objections made at Dr Spurzheim’s Second Demonstration and Description of the Brain, Dr Gordon subse- quently extended and embodied in a work entitled 4 Observations on the Structure of 4 the Brain, comprising an estimate of the 4 claims of DrsGall and Spurzheim toDisco- 4 very in the Anatomy of that Organ.’ Edin. 1817. To this work is added, by way of Ap- pendix, the article 4 Sur l’Anatomie du Cer- 4 veau, ’ drawn up by M.M. Gall and Spurz- heiru for the Dictionnaire des Sciences Me-MEMOIR OF 16 dicales. It contained, at that time, their lat- est views on the structure of the brain ; and was referred to by Dr Gordon as an authen- tic record of their opinions. It would be quite out of place, to enter into any detailed view of all the disputed points in this controversy; a few only of the leading questions can here be briefly discuss- ed. Drs Gall and Spurzheim had set out with observing, that the knowledge of the a- natomy of the brain had advanced but slowly,, partly on account of the great delicacy of the organ, and the very defective methods of dissection hitherto employed : but, more es- pecially, from the total want of physiological principles proper to conduct to a knowledge of the nervous system in general, and of the brain in particular. They therefore claimed the merit of introducing new and more suc- cessful methods of dissection, and of being guided always by physiological views in the prosecution of their anatomical investigations. By the combined use of these means, they'JOHN GORDON, M.D. 47 professed to have corrected much that was erroneous in the descriptions of their pre- decessors, and to have added to them much that was new. It was Dr Gordon’s object to examine, whether the methods thus announ- ced as new, were truly original;—how far the physiological principles, thus ostentatiously proclaimed, were in themselves just;—and if any, and what were the errors which these anatomists had corrected—and what the new inventions or discoveries they had made. With respect to alleged novelty in the mode of demonstration, these anatomists pro- fess to deviate from their predecessors, by commencing their dissection at the base, and proceeding upward towards the vertex of the brain, contrary to the common practice ; but, so far from this method being original, Dr Gordon has shown, that, although of late dis- used, it was long since sketched by Varoli- us, detailed afterwards by Vieussens, des- cribed distinctly by Malpighi, and again first revived and followed out with the greatest mi-48 MEMOIR OF Ruteness by Reil, in 1795, and in his subse- quent researches. Farther, instead of cutting the parts with the scalpel, Drs Gall and Spurzheim sepa- rate the medullary matter of the brain by scraping, or tearing it with the fingers, or handle of the scalpel, the better, it is said, to display its fibrous structure. This operation was also assumed as new ; but Dr Gordon has shown it to have been practised more than a century ago by Vieussens, to have been adopted by Morgagni, and subsequent- ly employed both by Mayer and Reil. Hence, therefore, it is quite evident that, neither in the mode of demonstration, nor in the mani- pulations made use of, can these anatomists lay claim to priority of invention: and even the smaller merit of reviving these methods belongs not to them, but to their laborious, modest, and candid countryman Reil. The first results on the anatomy of the brain, in which the methods and manipulations above mentioned were extensively employed by49 JOHN GORDON, M. D. Reil, were published in Gren’s Journal for 1795, thirteen years, says Dr Gordon, be- fore Gall and Spurzheim presented their Me- moir (which is their first composition) to the French Institute. * I have next to notice the physiological prin- ciples, which are declared to afford such great aid in disclosing the anatomy of the brain. The leading principle of this physiology is, that the cortical or grey matter of the brain, though admitted to be very vascular, is in fact a part ‘ destitute of apparent organization,’ [sans organisation apparente). Though thus unorganized, however, it performs, according to this physiology, a very singular office— that of nourishing the organized white sub- stance. ‘ Nous la considerons, comme la ma- tiere nourriciere de la substance blanche, ’ say Drs Spurzheim and Gall; and they af- firm, that all the white fibres of the brain o- riginate from this grey matter, which is there- * Observations on the Structure of the Brain, p. 15-98. E50 MEMOIR OF fore denominated the matrix of the nervous fibres. The whole of this statement of the structure and functions of the grey matter, Dr Gordon declares to be not only destitute of the slightest evidence, but at variance with the first prin- ciples of physiological science. 4 Every vas- 4 cular part, ’ he contends, ‘ is formed by its 4 own vessels; and there is just as little rea- 4 son for imagining the ’whitefibres of the brain 4 to be produced by the grey matter, as there 4 would be in supposing that the skin forms 4 the cellular substance which it covers; or 4 that substance the muscles; or the mus- 4 cles the bones. ” * Nevertheless, this hy- * Of this physiological hypothesis, an opinion very simi- lar has been expressed by M. Magendie, in his ‘ Precis Elementaire de Physiologie,’ t. 1. p. 162. ‘ Dire que la *■ substance grise du cerveau produit la matiere blanche, * c’est avancer une supposition gratuite, attendu que la * matiere grise ne produit pas plus la blanche, qu’un mus- « cle ne produit le tendon qui le termine; que le cceur re- 1, produit l’aorte, etc. Sous ce point de vue, le systeme ana- ‘ tomique de MM. Gall et Spurzheim est essentiellement ‘ fautif.’51 JOHN GORDON, M.D. pothesis, under the abused title of physiolo- gical principles, pervades almost all the de- scriptions of these anatomists, and is the fruitful source of many of their alleged discoveries. On its authority, they assert the presence of grey matter in parts, in which not only none others have ever ob- served it, but have even declared it to be white; and they announce the production of some fibres, and what they call the ‘ rein- ‘ forcement ’ of others, which have no title to existence but what this hypothesis affords. He, therefore, who may desire to see and believe all that these anatomists profess to describe, must first quicken his eye at the shrine of his fancy; and, for the ordinary display of anatomical demonstration, must consent to receive the gratuitous assumptions of a most clumsy and absurd hypothesis. One of the leading discoveries which, by the help of these new methods and princi- ples, Drs Gall and Spurzheim profess to have made, is, that the white matter of the brain £ 2MEMOIR OF 52 has ajibrous structure. This fibrous struc- ture they elsewhere declare to be the first and • * most important of all their discoveries, with- out which all the others would be imperfect. In reply to the French anatomists, they were, however, obliged to admit, that many others had previously recognised the white substance to be in general fibrous. Driven thus from the ground of priority, they next maintained there was not one who had asserted that it is fibrous under all its forms, and in all its re- gions ; and that even those who, with Soem- merring and Cuvier, recognise a fibrous struc- ture in many parts of the brain, have not dared to say that it is everywhere fibrous. * e c La premiere et la plus importante des decouvertes, c meme sous un rapport purement mecanique, celle sans ‘ laquelle toutes les autres seroient imparfaites, e’est celle ‘ de la structure constamnlent fibreuse de la substance * blanche du cerveau partout ou elle se trouve. Depuis * Vieussens et Leuwenhoek, plusieurs anatomistes ont, il * est vrai, bien reconnu que cette substance est on general * fibreuse : cependant nous n’en trouvons pas un seul qui * soit convaincu qu’elle est fibreuse sous toutes ses formesJOHN GORDON, M. D. 53 But, by an overwhelming series of quotations from their several works, Dr Gordon has shown that Malpighi, Vieussens, Leuwen- hoek, Haller, Mayer, Reil, Cuvier, and Portal, had all described the general fibrous- ness of the brain; and that Vieussens, Hal- ler and Portal, in particular, speak of it as being everywhere fibrous. It is plain, there- fore, that what these anatomists declare to be the first and most important of their disco- veries, has long been familiarly known to others, both of earlier and more recent times ; and that thus the new facts which they claim to have discovered, like the new methods which they pretend to have invented, were known and employed long before they could * et dans toutes ses regions. ’—Recherckes sur le Syst. Ner- veux en general et sur celui du Cerveau en particulier, p. 113. In their larger work, entitled, ‘ Anatomie et * Physiologie du Syst. Nerv. * &c. Vol. i. p. 235, it is said, ‘ Les auteurs qui, avec Scemmerring, Cuvier, recon- ‘ noissent la structure fibreuse du cerveau dans plusieurs * de ses parties, n’ont cependant pas ose dire qu’elle est ‘ partout fibreuse. ’—See Dr Gordon's Obs. on the Brain, Appendix, p. 188.54. MEMOIR OF have lived to apply their new physiological principles to investigate the structure of the brain. It is a curious fact, however, that whilst the hypothesis of these anatomists is said to have afforded such powerful aid in the al- leged discovery of the universal fibrousness of the ’white substance of the brain, it should have failed altogether in disclosing another point of structure in this organ, not less visible in itself, nor less easily rendered obvious—namely, that of the fibrous structure of the grey matter of the brain ; which mat- ter both Scemmerring and Reil represent as exhibiting a fibrous appearance when lacerat- ed, either in its recent state, or after indura- tion in alcohol. So far, therefore, the evi- dence of fibrousness in one case is precisely the same as in the other: and if a fibrous appearance be deemed sufficient proof of the fibrous structure of the white matter, it can- not be deemed insufficient to establish that of the grey matter also.55 JOHN GORDON, M. D. Having thus established that the fibrous structure of the brain, or rather the appear- ance which gives rise to that opinion, was known to anatomists long before the days of Gall and Spurzheim, Dr Gordon proceeds next to examine some peculiar notions of these anatomists respecting the alleged origin, termination, and uses of these fibres in com- posing the great mass of the brain. He re- marks, that Malpighi long ago observed, that, if we proceed to describe the fibrous struc- ture of the brain by commencing at the base, in that part called medulla oblongata, the whole of the fibres might there be said to originate and ramify in all directions, till they terminate at the vertex in the cortical or grey matter. A similar mode of descrip- tion was afterwards employed by Reil, who states, that, if we set out from the medulla oblongata, all the fibres might be regarded as radiating or diverging from this point to the extremities of the nerves, on the one hand, and to the extremities of the fibres in the56 MEMOIR OF cerebrum and cerebellum, on the other : or, reversing the matter, all these fibres might be considered as converging from their ex- tremities towards the medulla oblongata. The fibres, thus described by Reil, are, in his view, one and the same system, and are named Diverging or Convergnig, according to the part from which the description begins, and consequently, according to the direction in which their course may be traced. With Gall and Spurzheim, these fibres form two distinct orders or systems, differing essentially from each other, not in direction only, but in origin, in termination, and in use. We distinguish, say they, in the cerebel- lum and cerebrum, two orders of fibres—the fibres diverging, and the fibres converging. Of these orders, the first, or diverging, is said to originate from the grey or brown mat- ter of the medulla oblongata; and, in refer- ence to the entire brain, may be regarded as consisting of three primitive sets of fibres— one destined to form the cerebellum, and the57 JOHN GORDON, M. D. two others the cerebrum. The former, or cerebellar set, is said to originate from grey matter in those portions of the medulla ob- longata called corpora restiformia; and, pass- ing respectively to the right and left hemi- spheres of the cerebellum, its fibres are con- tinued through the corpus dent alum, till they terminate in the laminae of the cerebellum, which they thus contribute to form. Of the two sets of cerebral fibres, the first is said to arise from the grey substance of the corpora pyramidalia, and, passing upward through the annular protuberance and crura cerebri, pro- ceeds to form the convolutions chiefly of the anterior and middle lobes : while the second set, commencing in the grey matter of the corpora olivaria, and passing upward, behind the annular protuberance, and through the crura cerebri, are continued through the thalami optici and corpora striata, to form the convolutions of the posterior lobes, and other parts in the direction of the median line. Such are he several sets of divergent fibres58 MEMOIR OF which are said to form the greater part of the brain; and, in conformity with this no- tion, they are named the 4 Apparatus of Formation. ’ The converging system of these anatomists, is, in almost all respects, opposed to that which has been just described. Like the for- mer, however, its fibres are said to originate from grey matter : but the place of their ori- gin, their course, termination, and use, are altogether different. Instead of springing from a circumscribed part of the medulla ob- longata, they arise, it is said, from the grey matter distributed over the entire surface of the brain ; that is, they originate in that por- tion of those very convolutions in which the divergent fibres were declared to terminate. Commencing thus, by an expanded origin over both hemispheres, their filaments are said to unite as they proceed inward, and, crossing the opposite fibres in their course, they at length reach the median plane, where the fibres of each hemisphere, uniting withJOHN GORDON, M. D. 59 those of its opposite, produce the different parts or commissures by which the two he- mispheres are joined. As the fibres of this system, from their alleged origin to their ter- mination, are said continually to converge, they have been denominated the converging system ; and from their supposed termination in the parts which connect the two hemi- spheres of the brain, they derive the appella- tion of the ‘ Apparatus of Junction or Re- union. * Of these two alleged fibrous systems, Dr Gordon declares the greater part to rest only on hypothetical assumptions, or on descrip- tions which have no prototype in nature; that the small portion of truth they contain has been long known to anatomists; and that the later investigations of Reil into the fi- brous structure of the brain, are not only more minute and elaborate, but their results at variance, in every prrticular, with these conjectural statements. He affirms general- ly, that the origin of any of the fibres of the60 MEMOIR OF brain from the grey matter of the medulla oblongata, is a mere assumption ; that, with regard to the Cerebellum, in particular, no fibres can be traced from the corpora restifor- mia into the corpora dentatei, as these ana- tomists assert; that the said corpora dentata are not masses of grey substance, but consist of a small quantity of white matter contained in a brown capsule; and that the alleged formation of the laminae of the cerebellum, by fibres emerging from the corpora dentata, is altogether destitute of proof. In his pub- lic dissections, Dr Spurzheim, it is said, did not attempt to demonstrate this last piece of structure; nor have he and his colleague ever ventured to delineate it in any one of the seven engravings of the cerebellum which ac- company their large work on the Brain. Next, with respect to the divergent fibres of the Cerebrum, it is maintained, that the al- leged origin of the first set from the grey matter of the pyramidal bodies, and their augmentation or * reinforcement ’ from simi-JOHN GORDON, M. D. 61 for matter in the annular protuberance, and crura cerebri, are quite hypothetical; for that very little of such grey matter exists in any of those parts: that the superficial emi- nences, called corpora pyramidalia, cannot be considered equal to the production of so much nervous matter as this description im- plies ; that, instead of augmenting in their passage through the annular protuberance, the fibres of the pyramidal bodies are consi- derably less at the upper part than in the middle of that protuberance; and that the final distribution of these fibres in the grey matter of the convolutions, is a statement wholly incapable of demonstration. Proceeding next to the second set of diver- gent fibres, it is maintained, that their alleg- ed origin from the grey matter of the corpora olivaria is altogether inaccurate; for, like the corpora dentata, those bodies consist of a firmly indented capsule of brown matter, containing a nucleus of pure white substance; that though Drs Gall and Spurzheim affirm, F62 MEMOIR OF that a strong fasciculus of fibres comes out of these bodies, yet they have nowhere shown at what part these fibres emerge, either in their plates or public demonstrations; that the alleged union of these fasciculi with o- thers of the medulla oblongata, and their as- cent behind the posterior boundary of the annular protuberance, is quite imaginary, and altogether inconsistent with the statement of their passing between the transverse fibres of that body; and that the subsequent progress of these fibres through the thalami optici and corpora striata, receiving reinforcements in their course, and finally terminating in the convolutions of the posterior lobe, is purely hypothetical, and wholly indemonstrable. Lastly, with reference to the history of this particular fibrous structure, it is observed, that the passage of the fibres of the pyrami- dal bodies through the annular protuber- ance into the peduncles or crura cerebri, w'as known to, and described by Vieussens, Morgagni, Petit, Vicq d’Azyr and Haller;JOHN GORDON, M. D. 63 and was again more minutely detailed by Reilin 1795; and further, that the connexion between the peduncles and the hemispheres was also known to several of the anatomists above mentioned, and, more lately, was sue- cessfully prosecuted by Reil, who, in 1809 and 1812, published the final results of his investigations in two Essays, illustrated by engravings, remarkable for their clearness and accuracy. ‘ I have compared both these 4 papers with nature, ’ says Dr Gordon, 4 and 4 am satisfied that Reil has left little for his 4 successors, either to correct or to discover, * in this department of the Anatomy of the 4 Brain. 4 To these valuable dissertations, however,’ continues Dr Gordon, * 4not the least allusion 4 is made, either by Dr Gall or his partner, ‘ in any of their writings. And yet the Essay 4 in Gren’s Journal for 1795, was published 4 thirteen years before these gentlemen pre- 4 sented their Memoir (which is their first * Observations on the Brain, p. 98. F 2MEMOIR OF 64 ‘ composition) to the the French Institute, ‘ and five years at least, I presume, before ‘ they were even heard of as anatomists in ‘ Europe. Again, Reil’s Essay in the Ar- ‘ chives of Physiology for 1809 (to say no- ‘ thing of the paper for 1812), which contains 4 the most complete description of the Brain- 4 Proper, wras published a year before the 4 the appearance of Drs Gall and Spurzheim’s 4 quarto work in Paris; four years before 4 the composition of their Essay for the Die- 4 tionnaire des Sciences Medicales; and six 4 years prior to the publication of Dr Spurz- 4 heim’s separate book on Physiognomy. I 4 will not do Reil the injustice to insinuate, 4 that Drs Gall and Spurzheim have borrowed 4 their views, without acknowledgment, from 4 him. Had they adopted the descriptions of 4 that accurate inquirer, the present pamphlet 4 would have been unnecessary. But it is 4 surely not unreasonable to have expected, 4 that some reference should have been made 4 to the writings of an Anatomist, who has the65 JOHN GORDON, M. D. 4 sole merit of having revived the investiga- 4 tion of the fibrous structure of the brain in 4 modern times; and who, by pursuing steadi- 4 ly the only method by which that inquiry 4 can be satisfactorily conducted, has obtain- 4 ed results, at variance, in every particular, 4 with those conjectural statements, which, 4 by writing and by travel, these gentlemen 4 have been labouring for years to esta- 4 blish.’ * * In his * Observations on the Brain, ’ Dr Gordofi in- timated liis intention of making the labours of Reil on that organ better known to British anatomists, through the medium of an English translation or abridgment; a de- sign which, it is hoped, some person competently skilled in anatomy, as well as in the German language, may yet be found to execute. In the winter of 1817, in addition to his ordinary demonstration, Dr Gordon gave to his class a full account of the labours of Reil in this department of ana- tomy, and exhibited the numerous preparations, which, during more than four years of continued attention to this subject, he had made to illustrate and verify the accuracy of Reil’s descriptions. At the close of these demonstra- tions, he delivered a brief summary of that author’s labours, which, being but little known to the anatomists of this*MEMOIR OF 66 But hypothetical and erroneous as the de- scription of the Divergent system of fibres has been shown to be, it is affirmed by Dr Gordon, that the account given of what has been denominated the Convergent system, far exceeds it in error, and is, in truth, altogether imaginary and false. He maintains that no fi- bres, answering to their alleged system, can be shown to come out from the grey substance of the convolutions of any pan of the brain, as these anatomists assert; that such a structure is purely hypothetical, and wholly at variance with the real structure of these parts, as un- folded by the investigations of Reil; that these anatomists themselves admit, that they can follow these two systems as ‘ distinct and vi- 1 sible fibres,’ only in the posterior convolu- tions of the middle lobes of the cerebrum, where, however, it is said to be just as im- possible to demonstrate them, as in any of country, may perhaps be acceptable to those who take an interest in such pursuits. I shall therefore append it to this Memoir. * * See Appendix, No. 2.JOHN GORDON, M.D. 67 the other convolutions; and, accordingly, says Dr Gordon, 4 when Dr Spurzheim was « called upon, in his public dissections here, ‘ to make good those affirmations which con- ‘ stitute the leading features of his system, « by tracing any of the divergent fibres into ‘ the grey substance of the convolutions, and ‘ distinguishing them from the converging fi- ‘ laments in the same part; he was under the * necessity of denying that he had ever affir- 4 med any such structure to be demonstrable.’ Equally imaginary, Dr Gordon affirms, is the alleged progress of these convergent fibres, from the convolutions towards the inner part of each hemisphere, there to form, by uniting with the fibres of the opposite hemisphere, the various connecting parts, denominated, in this system, Commissures of the brain. 4 It thus 4 appears, ’ continues Dr Gordon, 4 that, un- 4 der the denomination of Diverging and * Converging fibres, Drs Gall and Spurz- 4 heim have described, and described imper- 4 fectly or inaccurately, parts of the brainMEMOIR OF 68 ‘ long known to anatomists;—that they have ‘ represented as demonstrable, and even de- 4 lineated in their engravings, parts which 4 have no existence in this organ; and lastly, 4 that they have maintained connexions to 4 subsist betwixt all these parts, for which 4 there is no foundation in nature. ’ Besides giving origin to one set of the di- vergent fibres, the fibres themselves of the Pyramidal Bodies are represented, by these anatomists, as completely crossing each other immediately after their origin; and this de- cussation was at first claimed as a discovery. It appears, however, that this complete cros- sing does not extend to the whole of the py- ramidal bodies; but that, in reality, these anatomists have described only that decussa- tion, which, as the French Commissioners remark, was first discovered by Mistichelli in 1709; next by Francis Petit in 1710; and was plainly delineated by Santorini. To thisDrs Gall and Spurzheim replied, that al- though these writers had described this de-I JOHN GORDON, M.D. 69 cussation, they had done it with no precision —an assertion which Dr Gordon disproves by quotations from their respective works ; and as to the smaller merit, of having recal- led the attention of physiologists to this piece of structure, Dr Gordon shows that it never has been overlooked, but, on the contrary, has been regularly noticed by Winslow, Lieu- taud, Haller, Sabatier, Girardi, Vicq d’Azyr and Portal; all of whom mention, and some of them clearly describe it, though others doubt the reality of its existence. 4 These 4 decussating ridges, ’ adds Dr Gordon, ‘ are 4 found, by the method of Reil, to be a part 4 of a considerable set of fibres, which ac- 4 tually cross from one side of the medulla 4 oblongata to the other, and the whole of 4 which may be distinctly unfolded in the 4 coagulated brain, but in no other way. * There is one other point of structure pe- culiar, in several respects, to Drs Gall and Spurzheim, to which I shall briefly advert; it relates to the Convolutions of the brain.70 MEMOIR OF According to these anatomists, the convolu- tions of this organ are formed by the ex- panded terminations of the divergent fibres, which are covered with grey matter; they consist of two distinct plates or layers, which touch in the median line of each convolu- tion, and, according to them, are slightly ag- glutinated to each other by a mucous neurilc- ma, or very fine cellular tissue. Each con- volution, it is added, may be easily separat- ed into two layers; and if this separation ex- tend through the whole convolutions, all their duplicatures will be transformed, it is said, into a kind of membranous expansion, white, smooth, and fibrous beneath, and co- vered exteriorly with grey substance* Such an expansion is declared to happen in advanc- ed stages of hydrocephalus; and it was such a case, it seems, which first led Drs Gall and Spurzheim to examine the structure of the brain in general, and of the convolutions in particular. This separation of them into two layers, it is alleged, may also be accomplish**71 JOHN GORDON, M.D. ed very easily by artificial means; that is, by simple pressure with the fingers from below upwards, or by blowing air, or projecting a stream of water upon them in the same di- rection. By Dr Gordon this account of the struc- ture of the convolutions is declared to be quite erroneous, and at variance, in almost every particular, with the very accurate and elaborate investigations of Reil. So early as 1795, that anatomist, who was the first to investigate the fibrous structure of the convo- lutions, described their white substance to be laminated, the laminae to be fibrous, and the fibres all to radiate towards the surface. The cortex or grey substance which covers the white matter, he also described to be fibrous, and its fibres to lie in laminae. In 1807, a- long with a variety of figures illustrating the fibrous structure of the cerebellum, he ex- hibited an engraving of one of the convolu- tions of the cerebrum, and accompanied it with descriptions, stating it to be composed72 MEMOIR OF • Observations, p. 138. of medullary plates, and the plates of fibres, like the laminae of the cerebellum ; and that these laminae cohere the most weakly in the middle. In 1809 and 1812, he published farther investigations into the structure of this part of the brain, and described a stra- tum of white fibres, lying between the bot- toms of the convolutions and the central parts of the brain, and connecting the con- volutions to each other. 4 Nothing, ’ says Dr Gordon, 4 can be more correct than the 4 descriptions given by Reil of the laminat- 4 ed structure and fibrous appearance of the 4 convolutions. With regard to the interme- 4 diate substance, the dissections which I have 4 hitherto made, do not enable me to speak 4 with confidence; though I have no doubt, 4 from Reil’s general accuracy, both as to 4 its existence, and the correctness of the re- 4 presentations he has given of it. ’ * From what has just been stated, it appears, that the investigations of Reil, regarding theJOHN GORDON, M. D. 73 structure of the convolutions, not only pre- ceded in time, but greatly surpass in mi- nuteness and accuracy, those of Spurzheim and Gall. With respect, farther, to the o- pinion of these anatomists, that the fibres of each convolution do not unite into one fasciculus, like those of the optic or audi- tory nerves, but form two distinct layers which touch each other in the median line of each convolution, and are slightly agglu- tinated together by means of a mucous neuri- lema, Dr Gordon denies both the accuracy of the description, and the existence of any such mucous neurilema. With Red, he maintains, that the convolutions are compos- ed of many laminae, and with the French Commissioners he asserts, that the separa- tion of these laminae in each convolution can be effected as easily on either side of the me- dian line, as in that line itself; and that all the laminae, which may be so separated, ex- hibit precisely the same fibrous appearance. He farther contends, that the experiments Gmemoir OF 74- * Observations, p. 146. of blowing air on the convolutions, or project- ing water on them, in the manner proposed by Gall and Spurzheim, and which are said to produce a separation in the median line, and in that only, are quite incorrect; for that, under these operations, the laminae separate as easily on either side that line as in it,—as was practised, in Dr Spurzheim’s presence, both on the recent and prepared brain, dur- ing his second demonstration. It follows, therefore, ‘ that the hypothesis of Drs Gall 6 and Spurzheim, that the convolutions of 6 the cerebrum or ,brain-proper are compos- < posed, each of two layers of fibres and no ‘ more, joined together in the middle by a ‘ mucous neurilema, is not only illogically ‘ deduced from experiments and observations < imperfectly or inaccurately made, but is < directly at variance with facts which are of « easy demonstration. ’ * As the condition of the brain in hydroce- phalus is said to have first excited Drs Gall75 JOHN GORDON, M.D. and Spurzheim to a particular examination of the structure of the Convolutions; so, in its turn, the anatomical hypothesis thence derived is brought to explain the state of the brain in that disease, and the jnanner in which it has been accomplished. The di- sease called Hydrocephalus, or Dropsy of the Brain, consists, as is well known, in an effusion of fluid into the ventricles of that organ. In their natural state, these cavities contain little or no fluid of any kind; and as, in their healthy condition, they cannot be made to contain more than two or three ounces of liquor, it is obvious, that, when the quantity effused increases, as it some- times does, to several pounds, the ventricles must be morbidly enlarged to receive it. Sometimes this enlargement of the ventricles is not accompanied with any enlargement of the external dimensions of the brain, but frequently it is, and then the cavity of the cranium is proportionally increased. In the latter case, the convolutions of the cerebrum g 276 MEMOIR OF are observed to become broader, but less deep; they preserve, however, even when much thinned, their internal solidity. The fossae between them are as narrow as at first; nor is there any rupture of the vessels of \X~\cpia mater. The process of enlargement sometimes goes on, until, at lengthj the form of convolution disappears altogether, and there remains only as a wall to the en- larged ventricles, a stratum of white sub- stance, not thicker perhaps than the eighth part of an inch, with a layer of brown mat- ter superposed. In some instances, the pro- gress of the disease is arrested at this point, and the individual lives many years with the brain in this state: In other instances, the disease proceeds until the thin remaining expansion of white and brown matter, form- ing the vault and sides of the ventricles, va- nishes also. Previous to the knowledge at present pos- sessed of the functions of the absorbent sys- tem, Pathologists very generally considered77 JOHN GORDON, M. D. this condition of the brain in hydrocephalus to be produced by the distending force of the water progressively effused into the ventri- cles, of which Dr Gordon has afforded am- ple proof, by extracts from the Works of Vesalius, Tulpius, Petit, Hunauld, and Morgagni. This doctrine of mechanical distention is revived by Drs Gall and Spurz- heim, who profess farther to have discover- ed the mode in which it is made to act. They maintain, that the brain is in no case disorganized or destroyed, but that the fluid accumulated in the ventricles, by the exer- tion of a gentle, but constant and regular force, acts on the convolutions till their du- plicatures are unfolded and transformed in- to a kind of membranous expansion, white and smooth within, and covered externally by grey matter. This action on the convo- lutions is said to commence at the bottom, where each duplicature of them may be easi- ly separated into two layers; and their fibres, which at first were vertical, are then said to assume a horizontal position.MEMOIR OF 78 Against this doctrine of simple distention, it is contended by Dr Gordon, first, That the brain is unable to bear it without suffering extensive laceration, and yet that no such effect is perceptible either on the ventricles or elsewhere; nor is there any rupture of vessels, either in the substance of the brain or in the pia mater ; 2dip, That the ventri- cles are sometimes enlarged by fluid without any corresponding enlargement of the brain externally; and, in a case that occurred to Reil, where the brain was greatly enlarged from the presence of water in the ventricles, the convolutions were not at all split up or otherwise affected—conditions quite incom- patible with the foregoing hypothesis of sim- ple distension ; 3dip, That the blood-vessels cannot, by any conceivable calculation, be imagined capable of exerting a power equal to the effects produced, especially in advanc- ed stao-es of the disease. As to the assertion, that the two layers of the convolutions are unfolded in the progress of the disease, it is79 JOHN GORDON, M.D. sufficient to remark, that this is advancing one supposition on another equally ground- less, for such a structure has no foundation in fact; or, even granting that it had, there is no force operating from the ventricles, which could effect the separation of the two layers, without producing laceration of the thick stratum of cerebral substance every- where interposed between the surfaces of those cavities and the bottom of the convolu- tions; yet such laceration is never remarked in hydrocephalus. That there is no loss of substance in a hydrocephalic brain, in any stage or degree of the disorder, as Gall and Spurzheim assert, is maintained to be a po- sition not only without proof, but demonstra- bly incorrect. And as to the argument for that opinion, derived from the circumstance, that persons affected with hydrocephalus have often preserved their faculties for many years, Dr Gordon replies, with the Com- mittee of the French Institute, that as we ‘ do not know with what part of the brain.80 MEMOIR OF 4 nor with what circumstance of its organi- ‘ zation these faculties are connected, we can ‘ draw no conclusion from it relative to the 4 essential structure of the brain. ’ 4 The agents, ’ continues Dr Gordon, 4 by 4 which these singular changes are accom- 4 plished on the cranium and its contents in 4 this disease, are imperceptible to our sen- 4 ses; but there is only one theory with re- 4 spect to them which will explain the phe- 4 nomena. They can be no other than the 4 secreting and absorbing vessels of the parts 4 which are affected:—Those very powers, 4 the balanced and reciprocal actions of 4 which, in the growth and modelling of the 4 healthy machine, have been so well de- 4 monstrated by Mr Hunter, and of which, 4 the modified operations are more or less 4 disclosed in almost every instance of local 4 disease:—those agents, for example, which 4 preserve to the thigh-bone its peculiar form 4 and structure throughout the whole period 4 of its growth, while they are the very powersJOHN GORDON, M. D. 81 ‘ by which its growth is accomplished—which 4 occasion the disappearance of the alveolar 4 arch in old persons, and make way for the 4 rising teeth in young ones—which throw 4 off a slough from a sore, or an exfoliation 4 from a bone—which cause a lung to waste 4 without hemorrhage—which enlarge an o- 4 vary until it forms a bag as large as the 4 abdomen—or thin the substance of a kid- 4 ney until it is reduced to a mere mem- 4 brane. ’ Beside these more important features, there are some minor points in dispute which an actual reference to dissection can alone ulti- mately decide.—Such are the questions, whe- ther the medulla oblongata, the crura cere- bri, and the thalami optici really possess the large quantity of grey matter in their substance which these anatomists affirm— whether, also, as they assert, these thalami have no connexion, by means of fibres, with the optic nerves, or whether the fibrous con- * Observations, &c. p. 152.MEMOIR OF 82 nexion between these bodies and the optic nerves, described first by Vieussens, and subsequently confirmed and extended by Red, be just;—whether the body called For- nix be composed of fibres derived from the posterior convolutions of the middle lobes, as Gall and Spurzheim contend, or consist of fibres which begin at the extremity of the jies hippocampi in each lateral ventricle, and end in the thalami optici, as Red is said to have shown ;—whether, farther, the fibres of the opposite halves of the fornix remain quite distinct, without crossing over the me- dian line, as the same anatomist affirms, or intermingle with each other, so as to form a Commissure, as the system of Gall and Spurz- heim requires;—whether the bodies called corpora dentata, and corpora olivaria, con- sist entirely of grey matter, and have the size and figure represented by Spurzheim and Gall, or are much smaller in size, and composed of a nucleus of 'white matter, enclosed in a capsule of brown, as describedJOHN GORDON, M.D. 83 and delienated by Dr Gordon, and also by Vicq d’Azyr;—whether, again, as these anatomists affirm, the annular protuberance contain a very large quantity of grey matter, or only a very small portion of that sub- stance, as others maintain:—And, lastly, whether the fact, of grey matter being at all seen in this protuberance, do not depend on the mode in which its section is made: For as Dr Gordon was, we believe, the first to observe, and has delineated in fig. 5th and 6th of his Observations on the Structure of the Brain—4 Every particle of the substance 4 which appears grey when the protuberance 4 is divided vertically, may be shown to 4 consist of transverse or horizontal fibres, 4 coming from the peduncles of the cerebel- 4 lum, which uniformly present this dark ap- 4 pearance when they are divided directly a- 4 cross, although they are as white as the 4 whitest nervous substance, when cut in a 4 direction parallel to their length. It is on- 4 ly when divided in a direction exactly pa- 4 rallel to their course, that the fasciculi con-memoir OF 84- 4 tinuous with the pyramidal bodies them- 4 selves appear of a white colour: if they 4 are cut across, or horizontally, they exhibit c a grey hue; so that the colour of the dif- * ferent sets of fibres in the annular protube- 4 ranee, depends entirely on the section which 4 is made of them. In a vertical section of 4 this body, the fibres continuous with the 4 corpora pyramidalia are white, and those 4 connected with the peduncles of the cere- 4 bellum grey. In a horizontal section, it is 4 exactly the reverse; the former are grey, 4 and the latter white. ’ * The foregoing questions, and some others which relate to the minute anatomy of this organ, and respecting which different statements have been given, we willingly leave to the future determination of those who, to the best opportunities, and great- est skill in dissection, bring to the investi- gation minds free from prejudice, and un- shackled by preconceived notions. It is on- * Obs. on the Brain, p. 77, & Syst. of Hum. Anat.i. p. 140.85 JOHN GORDON, M. D. ly by means of a most refined and elaborate anatomy that some of them can be truly de- cided; and supported as the descriptions of Reil are by the actual experience of Dr Gor- don, we have little hesitation in anticipating their final triumph over the opinions of Spurz- heim and Gall. As to the hypotheses of these anatomists, respecting the nature and office of the grey matter of the brain, and the doc- trine of the origin and reinforcement of fibres thence arising—these are points which any one who chuses may believe, but which anatomy is incompetent to demonstrate; and which, there- fore, all sober inquirers will do well to disre- gard, when studying the facts and appearances which present themselves in investigating the minute structure of the brain. This very able and learned Essay procur- ed for its author the thanks of several philoso- phers and anatomists, of whose approbation any man might justly be proud. An eminent anatomist of London tells him, that 4 he 4 deserves the thanks of all British anato- ‘ mists, for having so completely settled the H86 MEMOIR OF 4 question about these vaunted anatomi- 4 cal discoveries; ’ and the opinion of the il- lustrious Cuvier, to whom Dr Gordon trans- mitted a copy of this work, I shall beg to subjoin entire, since it adds at once to the interest of my narrative, and to the honour of my friend’s memory. 4 Monsieur, 4 J’esperais vous remercier beau- 4 coup plutot du present interessant que vous 4 m’avez fait, mais je voulais vous lire aupar- 4 avant, et je n’en ai pu trouver le terns que 4 depuis peu de jours. 4 II est vrai que MM. Gall et Spurzheim * ne distinguent pas toujours assez nettement 4 dans leurs ouvrages et dans leurs le$ons 4 ce qui est hypothetique, et ce qui repose * sur des observations positives; et que leurs 4 observations, meme quand elles sont ex- 4 actes, ne sont pas toujours aussi neuves 4 qu’ils le pensaient quand ils les ont faites. 4 Leurs figures presentent quelquefois ce qu’ils 4 ont cru, plutot que ce qu’ils ont vu: maisJOHN GORDON, M. D. 87 lea critiques nombreuses que Ton a faites de leur travail, serviront a le rectifier en lui laissant le merite, qu’il a en effet, d’avoir appele l’attention sur des rapports des parties du cerveau, que Ton avait presque negliges avant eux dans l’enseignement. 4 Votre ouvrage, Monsieur, est le plus solide de ceux qui ont ete diriges contre eux: vous faites voir des erreurs materielles dans leurs planches, des negligences dans leurs descriptions, des oublis dans leurs cita- tions, qui sont incontestables. Je suis fort aise de trouver que vous pensez comme moi sur leur pretendu deplissement du cerveau, qui m’a toujours paru une pure illusion. 4 Veuillez done recevoir l’expression de ma reconnaissance, etcelle de la haute con- sideration avec laquelle je suis, 4 Monsieur, 4 Votre tres humble, et 4 tres obeissant Serviteur, 4 G. Cuvier.’ Au Jardin du Roi, a Paris, le 31 Aoust, 1817. h 2MEMOIR OF 88 This work drew from Dr Spurzheim a pamphlet designed as a reply, not to Dr Gordon only, but to his other Opponents in Britain. Of this pamphlet Dr Gordon did not think it necessary to take any public no- tice; but he communicated to his Class his opinion of it in the following terms, which I copy from notes found among his papers. * Dr Gall’s colleague, before his departure 4 from this place, published a pamphlet, 4 which he wished to be understood as con- 4 taining a reply to my Treatise; and if you 4 have read the one, I hope you will read 4 the other. As an answer to my Treatise, 4 I cannot regard it. It seems intended to ‘ be read only by those who have not perus- 4 ed my “ Observations. ” It attributes to * me opinions respecting both the functions 4 and the structure of the brain, which I * have nowhere expressed, either in my lec- 4 tures or books. My objections were di- 4 rectly and pointedly urged; and they 4 ought to have been as directly replied to;JOHN GORDON, M.D. 89 * but instead of this, the writer studiously evades them all. For these reasons, I do ‘ not regard this pamphlet as any reply to * my “ Observations. ” I must add, how- ‘ ever, ’ continues Dr Gordon, ‘ that this ‘ pamphlet contains a statement with respect ‘ to a recent dissection of an hydrocephal- ‘ ous patient in the Royal Infirmary of this ‘ place, which has been directly contradict- ‘ ed, publicly and privately, to the author ‘ himself; but which is so calumnious to the ‘ Institution, and to the Individuals concern- ‘ ed in that dissection, at the same time that ‘ it is so unfounded, that it does not increase ‘ the reliance I have been inclined to place on ‘ averments, as to matters of fact, coming from ‘ that quarter. ’ The statement here referred to occurs in pages 37, 38, and 39 of Dr Spurzheim’s pam- phlet, and relates to a dissection, made on the 28th December 1816, at which Dr Spurz- heim states himself to have been present a- mong the students as a spectator. He asserts, that, after the cranium was removed, theMEMOIR OF so diseased appearances of the parts within were not exhibited to the spectators. He insinu- ates, that the dissectors in the area purposely surrounded the body, so that no one could see what, was doing except themselves; and that when a gentleman moved sidewards to nive him (Dr S.) at least a distant view, Dr Gor- don intentionally placed himself in the open- ing just before him. He adds, 4 that he had 4 never seen a public dissection made with 4 less advantage, and less instruction to the 4 pupils: ’ And while he acquits all others of blame on this occasion, he points to Dr Gor- don as alone concerned 4 in preventing this 4 case from receiving its proper publicity. ’ This statement deviates so widely from what was either done or intended on the oc- ft casion referred to, that it required no com- mon skill in the art of misrepresentation to contrive it, and still more uncommon hardi- hood in assertion to set it down for truth. The mistakes—to give them not a harsher name—into which Dr Spurzheim had fal- len, were pointed out to him by Mr Joseph91 JOHN GORDON, M.D. Bell, the Colleague of Dr Gordon in the Infirmary, whose duty it had been to di- rect the dissection in question. Among Dr Gordon’s papers, I find also a * Statement’ of circumstances relative to this dissection, drawn up by himself, and submitted to the senior surgeons of the Royal Infirmary, in refuta- tion of the charges and calumnies against himself and his colleagues, contained in Dr Spurzheim’s pamphlet. After stating that the dissection was performed by Mr Joseph Bell with the greatest care, every part of the organ being minutely examined, the whole of it carefully weighed, and the contents of the ventricles exactly measured; that Mr Bell, to gratify the laudable curiosity of the gentlemen attending, actually handed round among them the scull-cap, and portions of the diseased cerebellum ; and that, on the following day, a very clear, accurate, and concise Report of the dissection, drawn up by Mr Bell and his clerk, was presented to Dr Duncan senior, the Clinical Professor— Dr Gordon thus proceeds,—‘ Such being the92 MEMOIR OF * facts relative to this dissection, it was with ‘ equal indignation and surprise that I read ‘ the account of it which was soon after in- ‘ troduced by Dr Spurzheim into a pamphlet ‘ published by him in this place. In that ‘ pamphlet, it was affirmed, that the indi- ( viduals performing and assisting in the o- ‘ peration, intentionally conducted them- * selves in such a manner as to conceal the ‘ morbid appearances which presented them- ‘ selves from the whole of the spectators, ‘ and, in particular, from the author of the ‘ pamphlet himself, who states that, on that ‘ occasion, he had placed himself among ‘ the students in the Theatre. I feel perfect- ‘ ly confident, that there is no one who knows ‘ either Mr Joseph Bell or myself, who will ‘ for a moment suppose that either of us is ‘ capable of such conduct as is here attribute ‘ ed to us. Nothing can be more false than ‘ Dr Spurzheim’s accusation. The very pre- ‘ sence of that person among the other spec- ‘ tators was wholly unknown both to Mr ‘ Bell and myself; but had it been otherwise,JOHN GOB DON, M. D. 93 ‘ I am very certain that no one would sus- ‘ pect that either of us would have been so * far regardless of our own dignity, as to ‘ permit such a circumstance to influence us N 4 in the discharge of our public duty. 4 Fully sensible how much the reputation of 4 the Royal Infirmary was involved in the state- 4 ment of this dissection, presented to the pub- 4 lie by Dr Spurzheim, Professor Russel took 4 the earliest opportunity of contradicting it in 4 his Clinical Lectures. Mr Bell also, did 4 not fail to remonstrate with the author of 4 the pamphlet himself on the subject; and 4 having occasion, a short time after, to treat 4 of hydrocephalus in my Lectures, I felt 4 myself called upon, from a regard to the 4 character of the Infirmary and of my col- 4 league, as well as with a view to repel the 4 insinuations thrown out against myself, to < pronounce the statement in question, in 4 the most positive manner, to be false. ’ To this statement of Dr Gordon, I shall add, with permission, that of Mr Bell him-memoir OF 4 of the students (in the theatre) from being 94- self, drawn up, like the former, for the in- formation of the senior surgeons, and ad- dressed to James Law Esq. 4 St Andrew's Square, 4 dear sir, Mth March, 1817. 4 In compliance with your request, 6 and with that of the other surgeons of the 4 Royal Infirmary, I subjoin the following 4 statement of what took place on the 28th 4 of December last, at the dissection of a 4 girl who died of hydrocephalus. 4 The dissection was conducted in the 4 usual manner. No observations were ad- 4 dressed to the students, except when, on 4 their showing some marks of dissatisfac- 4 tion, Dr Gordon requested them to be si- 4 lent, and said that they should be afterwards 4 informed of the particulars. The number 4 of individuals in the area amounted proba- 4 bly to twelve or fifteen, and perhaps I was 4 not sufficiently careful to prevent the view95 JOHN GORDON, M. D. c obstructed: but I consider it almost un- ‘ necessary to say, that no intentional ob- ‘ struction was interposed. « The scull-cap and a portion of the dis- ‘ eased cerebellum were handed round for ‘ the inspection of the students; and if a * minute examination of any other parts had ‘ appeared to me likely to afford information, * I should have directed them to be handed ‘ round likewise; yet I would not be un- ‘ derstood as admitting, that this is a prac- ‘ tice which ought invariably to be follow- ‘ ed. ‘ A detailed account of the appearances ‘ was delivered on the following day, to the ‘ Clinical Professor; and the Journal being ‘ open to the students, constitutes, in my o- ‘ pinion, the legitimate mode in which they ‘ may satisfy themselves, as to every particu- ‘ lar of the dissection. ' ^ * In a conversation with Dr Spurzheim, { which I brought on for the purpose of ob- taining an explanation, he instantly assuredMEMOIR OF 96 * me, that the remarkswhich he had published ‘ respecting this dissection, had no reference * to me: and on my informing him, that de- * monstrations were not usually given, but ‘ that regular accounts of the dissections ‘ were inserted in the Journals for the infor- ‘ mation of the students, he said, that, had ‘ he been aware of these circumstances, he ‘ would not have made the observation con- 4 tained in the 39th page of his pamphlet; ’— 44 that he (Dr Spurzheim) had never seen a 44 public dissection made with less advantage 44 and less instruction to the Pupils. ” 4 Joseph Bell. ’ With these statements, in themselves so completely satisfactory, I might at once take leave of this part of the subject; but it may be proper I should add, that the hostility displayed in Dr Spurzheim’s pamphlet, was probably excited by a critique on the works of Gall and Spurzheim, which appeared in the Edinburgh Review, and of which Dr Gordon was generally considered to be theJOHN GOUDON, M. D. 97 author. Certainly some expressions in that article might, with propriety, have been spar- ed. As it is not however probable, that the Reviewer had any personal knowledge of the authors, he could not have been actuated by any personal feeling; but must have formed his opinions from the study of their works alone. Now, it is quite evident, from the discussions into which he has entered, that he considered these anatomists to have com- mitted many palpable errors, and to have conducted themselves towards other anato- mists with the greatest injustice. It is not surprising therefore, that, in criticising their labours, he should have warmly vindicated preceding writers; and exposed, as far as he was able, the extravagant pretensions and manifold mistakes which he considered them to have made. The assumption of superior merit is always of itself sufficiently offensive; but when coupled with unfounded claims, and disregard or depreciation of the merits of others, it ought not to escape the severest animadversion. i98 MEMOIR OF With respect to the Craniological system of these writers, the Reviewer seems to have attached no sort of credit to it; but, on the contrary, to have regarded it, with many o- thers, as not less fanciful and delusive than the Animal Magnetism of Mesmer, or the Metallic Tractors of Perkins,—both of which, for a time, obtained some credit in the world, but have long since been rejected as par- taking of deceit and imposture. Whether the Craniology of Gall be destined to under- go a similar fate, or to sink merely like the Physiognomy of Lavater, or survive as a dis- tinct branch of science, experience will one day show. But those who viewed it as false and delusive in its principles, unsound and often puerile in its evidence, and in its mode of propagation not strictly scientific, might naturally be expected to treat it with severity and ridicule. When, too, the authors of such novel opinions thought fit to declare, that 4 they were far from thinking that igno- c ranee and knavery would not attack their * doctrines with abuse, ’ it does not appearJOHN GORDON, M.D. 99 to me, either that their good opinion of themselves, or their ill opinion of others, entitled them to extraordinary indulgence. And therefore, when a critic, in the exami- nation of their doctrines, saw sufficient cause to question their knowledge and sincerity, he was surely at full liberty to retaliate, by throwing back on themselves the imputations they would fix upon others. The last anatomical work which Dr Gor- don communicated to the public, was a Fas- ciculus of Plates in octavo, exhibiting a series of representations of those parts of the Human Skeleton, with which it is of most importance for the physiologist and the medical practitioner to be accurately acquaint- ed. On the publication of the first volume of his System of Anatomy, he had express- ed his regret in not having been then able to accompany it with a series of engravings, on account chiefly of the great delay and ex- pense necessarily attendant on such a plan. i 2MEMOIR OF 100 It was an object, however, which he bore constantly in mind; and the present work was the first step to its performance. It con- sists partly of designs selected from the works of the most esteemed anatomists, but chiefly of those taken from dissections and prepa- rations made by the author himself. There is not much room for novelty in a work of this kind, the chief merit of which must consist in selection of objects, in accu- racy of representation, and perspicuity of description. These properties it possesses in a high degree; and the delineations of the organ of Hearing in particular, may lay claim to superior correctness. From the great complexity and minuteness of its parts, this is the most difficult of all the organs clearly to apprehend; and the great hardness of the boney case in which it is contained, renders its dissection and preparation a work of great labour and skill. In general, views of the skeleton of the Ear have been taken from the foetus or child; in these plates they are taken from the adult; and all the partsJOHN GORDON, M. D. 101 are represented of their natural size, and in their just relative position. Outline views, with descriptive references, accompany the engravings in this work; and Messrs Liz- ars and Miller, the artists employed, have very ably executed their portion of the task. It was the intention of the author to have illustrated the other parts of the human body in a similar manner, and on the same principle of selection ; and there can be little doubt that the work would have been favourably received by the public. It must, however, be confessed, that, from anatomy being studied with us as an useful art, rather than cultivated as a liberal science, the en- couragement given by us to works of this nature is not great. One cannot help in- deed feeling astonishment, that, while the nations on the Continent, particularly Ger- many and Italy, are continually producing new systematic works of this kind, of the most elaborate and expensive description ; nothing is attempted in this country that will102 MEMOIR OF bear the smallest comparison with them ; and yet the persons interested in such works are not less numerous, and certainly far more opulent with us, than the same classes on the Continent. But we are so busied with the daily applications of the science, that we lose all relish for the abstract contemplation of it: and anatomy, therefore, is studied with us only for the profit it will yield, and not for the fame it may bring. Had Dr Gordon lived, he might have contributed to wipe away this reproach; and as our Systematic Writers in Chemistry have not only supplanted foreigners at home, but even spread their works through those countries from which the importations had been made, so, in Anatomy, might similar results be anticipated, were the genius of the country properly called forth to the enter- prise. It is an honourable testimony to this opinion, that the work now under consider- ation, shortly after its publication, was trans- lated into German by Professor Rosenmiil- ler of Halle, an anatomist of the first dis-103 JOHN GORDON, M. D. tinction in that country, himself the author of a splendid work on Surgical Anatomy. That a similar opinion of its merits was entertained at home, I am happy to witness, from a letter I find addressed to the author by a Physician, once enjoying the highest re- putation as a Teacher of Anatomy, and now, by the united suffrage of his brethren and the public, elevated to the head of that pro- fession which he dignifies and adorns. 4 I * return you my best thanks, ’ says Dr Bail- lie, 4 for your Engravings of the Human 4 Skeleton, which you have been so good as 4 to send me. The Engravings are extreme- 4 ly well executed, the various sections well 4 imagined, and the short descriptions pos- 4 sess all that precision for which you are dis- 4 tinguished. The work, when it is finished, 4 will be very useful to the public, and credit- 4 able to yourself. ’MEMOIR OP 104 It has been already stated that Dr Gor- don, from the time he began to lecture, taught Anatomy and Physiology in conjunc- tion ; and this he continued to do till the summer of 1813. By experience, however, he became convinced that this plan could not be pursued with advantage to either of the sciences which it professed to teach ;—that the simplicity and precision of anatomical demonstration, which is addressed directly to the eye, were embarrassed and overlaid by the introduction of physiological reason- ing, the principles of which must often be sought in other sciences, and addressed to o- ther senses. In the jejune and dogmatic way in which physiology is frequently taught, this method may continue to be followed; but he who can estimate fairly the importance of that science, who contemplates the vast ac-JOHN GORDON, M.D. 105 cumulation of materials that belong to it, the aid which it seeks from almost every other science, and the doubts and difficulties with which it is every where environed, must ad- mit that nothing worthy of the name of Physi- ology can be taught as a mere appendage to an anatomical course. Occasional remarks, indeed, on the healthy functions or morbid actions of parts, or on the operations to which they may be subjected, may some- times be advantageously blended with ana- tomical description ; but to suppose that, in this way, a competent knowledge of physi- ology, pathology, or surgery can be obtain- ed, would be altogether absurd. The accu- mulation of knowledge has rendered neces- sary the separation of many departments of science, as branches of instruction, which were once advantageously conjoined ; and this is especially true of physiology and sur- gery, both of which, however, continue fre- quently to be taught as parts of an anatomical course. To say that, because these sciencesMEMOIR OF 106 depend immediately on anatomy, they should therefore be taught together, is an assertion suited only to the state of their infancy, and which has neither reason nor analogy in its support. No one pretends that the several subjects of Natural Philosophy can be pro- fitably taught with the Elements of Mathe- matics: yet the movements of inert matter seek illustration and proof as directly from mathematical principles, as the functions of Living Bodies do from Organic Structure. Although, therefore, these dependent sciences can never be properly dissociated, yet, in the order of instruction, the simple demonstra- tions of the one ought to precede the facts and reasonings of the other. In most of the Universities of Europe, accordingly, in which Medicine is scientifi- cally taught, both Surgery and Physiology have been separated from Anatomy, and treated as distinct sciences. In this Univer- sity, no provision was originally made to teach Surgery as a science; and it was notJOHN GORDON, M. D. 107 till about the year 1777, that the Professor of Anatomy obtained an extension of his commision to teach surgery also; since which time the two sciences have been nominally taught together. With regard to Physiology, a different rule obtains: for the class in this University denominated 4 Institutions of 4 Medicine, ’ comprises, in its proper accep- tation, a full history of the animal functions in health and disease; and affords, therefore, an example of the propriety and advantage of teaching the functions distinct from de- monstrations of the structure of organs. In some of the Establishments for medical in- struction in London, a similar separation has long since been made; and the author re- members, with gratitude, the information he - formerly derived from the highly interest- ing and instructive physiological Lectures of Dr Haighton. The success also which, in Edinburgh, attended the efforts of Mr Al- len, whose admirable Lectures on Physio- logy excited greater interest among the me-108 MEMOIR OF dical students of this school, than any given at that period, either within or without the walls of the University, exemplifies the same truth. Influenced by such considerations, and encouraged by such examples, Dr Gor- don announced his intention of giving, dur- ing the summer of 1813, a separate course of Lectures on Physiology, which had now become his favourite study, and to which he devoted himself with great ardour. Com- bining, afterwards, pathological facts with his physiological views, he named these Lectures ‘ Institutions of Medicine; ’ and of the eight courses which he subsequently de- livered, generally in the winter season, and occasionally in summer, each surpassed that which preceded it in interest, and in the re- putation which it brought to its author. Perhaps there is no science in which so many absurd hypotheses have been framed, nor in which such vague terms and ambigu- ous reasonings have been employed, as in Physiology. This arises partly from diffi- culties inherent in the subject; partly from109 JOHN GORDON, M.D. the intimate connexion it has with so many other sciences; and more than all, peihaps, from false methods of study, and neglect 01 ignorance of the true mode ol inductive in- & vestigation. Among the inherent difficulties may be mentioned our total ignorance of the mi- nute anatomy of every texture and organ, when we approach the mechanism of its ulti- mate structure. Of the nature of the living properties of these textures and organs, and of the modes in which they exercise their pecu- liar functions, we are equally ignorant. We see, indeed, certain stages of these functions, and observe many of their products; but the progressive changes which fill up the interval between what we actually see, and the ulti- mate result, are very imperfectly known. We see, for example, that the body is moved by muscles, and also that the blood is propelled through the vessels by muscular agency; but the actual structure of the muscular fibre itself, the nature of the power or influence K110 MEMOIR OF which acts upon it, and the mode of ac- tion, are still subjects of doubt and dispute. To the healthy constitution of the blood, the continued access of fresh air is also known to be necessary, and some of the effects which ensue have been ascertained; but many others are still concealed from ourview, and the mode in which any of them are produced has not yet been fully disclosed. If we follow the same fluid to the different parts of the body, and contemplate the wonderful and diversifi- ed changes produced in it by the action of the secretory organs, the interval between what we know and what remains to be dis- covered is still farther augmented; and should we next proceed to connect, in the way of physiological explanation, the phenomena of sensation with those of perception and thought, we are soon compelled to retreat in absolute despair. That hypotheses have been framed to remove all these difficulties, is most cer- tain ; and the confidence expressed in them has been generally proportioned to the forceIll JOHN GORDON, M.D. of imagination, or degree of ignorance in those by whom they have been proposed;— of imagination, which fills up with its own creations the intervals yet unoccupied by the perceptions of sense,—or of ignorance, unin- formed of the facts essential to a right judge- ment, or perverting and misapplying those which are actually known. Nevertheless, in physiology, a great num- ber of curious and important facts have been ascertained, which, in some instances, have led to the establishment of certain general laws or theories, of great interest in their practical applications. To the accumulation of these facts and theories, the anatomist, the natural philosopher, and the chemist, have more especially contributed ; but each, in turn, by an undue and exclusive applica- tion of his peculiar science, has sometimes helped to retard the object which he aimed to pi'omote. Essential as a knowledge of Anatomy, both Human and Comparative, is to the advancement of Physiology, it is far K 2MEMOIR OF 112 from being all-sufficient; and great as have been the aids which it has rendered, it has also, on many occasions, by imperfect ob- servation and forced analogies, contributed to the spread of error. To the knowledge of vision, of muscular motion, and some o- ther functions, the science of Natural Philo- sophy has afforded important aid : but when it attempted to explain all the diversified movements of the living system on mechani- cal principles, and reduce them to actual calculation, it completely failed. In earlier and more recent times, Chemistry also has lent the greatest assistance to Physiology; and many functions of the system can receive il- lustration only by the aid of that science. This necessary aid which it renders, has however led, in many instances, to its hasty and extravagant application; and, as might be expected, the chemical processes, least un- derstood in themselves, have been those em- ployed with the greatest confidence in the ex- planation of the animal functions.113 JOHN 'GORDON, M.D. Beside these theorists who, at least, set out from something in the shape of fact, physi- ology has been incumbered with hypotheses resting scarcely on any facts at all, but spring- ing almost entirely from the loosest analogies, or the vainest and wildest conjectures. To conceal the weakness of such hypotheses, new terms and arbitrary definitions have been in- vented, imaginary principles assumed, and conclusions reached in words which have had little or no connexion with facts. Not con- tent with observing the phenomena which living bodies exhibit, with tracing out their connexions, and reducing them to general laws, these speculatists have imagined the ex- istence of certain properties, which, assuming gradually the appellation of principles, have at length been regarded as real entities, and designated by particular names. To these Entities, particular seats or habitations have been assigned, from whence they have been made to rule the Animal microcosm with as great authority, and as little regard to its na*-114 MEMOIR OF ture and its wants, as Rulers, in general, are accustomed to observe. It is sufficiently obvious from these few ex- amples, how loose have been the methods in which physiology has been commonly studied, and how necessary a severer mode is to its suc- cessful cultivation. It is equally obvious, that, to make any considerable progress in this science, a wide range of knowledge is requir- ed, together with an ardour for information which seeks aid and illustration on every side, and a force of judgment which shall so justly appreciate the acquisitions made as to keep e- very thing within its appropriate limits. In the present state of physiology, many of its alleged facts may be received as sufficiently certain; but many also must be regarded with great doubt and suspicion. These last have been derived partly from imperfect ob- servation or experiment, and partly from false analogies, and the propensity, to which many are prone, of mixing the notions they form of phenomena with what they actually115 JOHN GORDON, M.D. observe, and thus giving the semblance of fact to what, in reality, is mere matter of o- pinion. These and similar reflections on the pre- sent state of physiology, and on the difficul- ties which its study presents, frequently oc- cupied the thoughts of Dr Gordon, who, by the original constitution of his mind, not less than by his acquired knowledge, was well fitted to contend with them. He was endowed by nature with a strong and pene- trating judgment, and carried into allliis re- searches such a love of exactitude and order, as necessarily begat a severe scrutiny of facts, and led to a methodical arrangement of them. To unwearied industry of research, he join- ed an entire freedom from prejudice, and an ardour in the pursuit of truth, which sought information on every side, and but little dis- posed him to take, on the authority of others, whatsoever he could examine for himself. Well disciplined in the rules of evidence, and the mode of philosophic induction, he was qualified to examine the authority of reput-MEMOIR OF 116 ed facts, to detect their errors and deficien- cies, and finally to give judgment on the legiti- macy of the inferences deduced from them. Although Human Anatomy had neces- sarily occupied the greater part of the time he employed in actual dissection, he had al- so studied deeply the structure of other animals—convinced that the knowledge, which such extended comparisons afford, serves often to relieve physiology from many perplexing difficulties, and to open and clear the way to its most important truths. Of his skill in Morbid anatomy, I have al- ready spoken. No one pursued it with greater zeal, nor estimated more highly its importance in illustrating, not only the dis- eased actions, but the healthy functions, of the system. In truth, these actions and func- tions are but two extreme terms of one and the same series; and if a knowledge of the healthy function best qualify us to estimate the amount and predict the consequences of its deviations, so does correct observation ofJOHN GORDON, M. D. 117 those deviations, and of the changes in which they terminate, serve not only to verify the accuracy, but promote the extension, of our physiological knowledge. With these qualifications as an Anatomist, Dr Gordon combined a competent knowledge of the several branches of Natural and Physi- cal science that could in any way aid his pur- suits; and this he applied always with the greatest discrimination and success. He was well aware that Physiology is, at present, the most imperfect, because the most dependent, of all the sciences; that, holding relations, more or less intimate, with most of the phenomena of nature, and seeking aid and illustration from all other sciences, it must, in many instances, await their gradual progress and development, before it is itself enabled permanently to ad- vance : and therefore, that his success will ul- timately be the most complete, who, to exact observation of individual facts, joins extent and comprehension of view, and, not limiting his attention solely to his own more immedi-MEMOIR OF 118 ate province, ranges at large through the world of science, and collects, from every region, whatsoever can embellish and enrich his own. In discoursing on any function, Dr Gor- don was accustomed to state the facts which had been ascertained, in the simplest terms and the most natural order r and when the inferences which arose coalesced into a series of propositions, and assumed the form of a theory or general law, it was exhibited in the plainest language, and with such re- servations, doubts and exceptions, as the state of our knowledge, or his own reflections, might suggest. Though always desirous of proceeding by the method of induction, yet, where that was impracticable, he did not wish to banish all hypothetical views from physiolo- gical investigation. He knew well, that a col- lection of mere facts, howsoever'complete, pos- sesses, comparatively, little interest or value, unless an attempt be made to arrange and connect them by the exercise of our reason-119 JOHN GORDON, M. D. mg powers: that, in the present auspicious period, when the human mind is so little dis- posed to yield to any authority save the con- victions of its own reason, hypotheses pro- duce few of the evils which they formerly en- gendered: and that, professing to rest, as they must now do, on facts derived from ob- servation and experiment, they cannot main- tain their ground when better experiments and observations shall conduct to juster views. Till this shall happen, they facilitate the ap- prehension and remembrance of facts; give to them an interest which they could not o- therwise command; and, by exciting attempts either to verify or disprove them, suggest of- ten new researches, by which new truths are disclosed, and the boundaries of science en- larged. Hypotheses such as these Dr Gordon did not refuse to entertain ; but he discarded from his Lectures all those fanciful specula- tions, resting not upon facts, nor even on rational analogies, but on a set of undefined and indefinable terms, invented to concealMEMOIR OF 120 ignorance and protect error, and therefore ‘ contributing so much more to extend the £ surface, than to increase the solidity of * science. * In his * Outlines of Lectures on Human Physiology,’ published only a few months before his death, he has left us an ample sketch of the plan which he adopted, and the materials he employed in its execution. These Outlines present a full Tabular view of the science, and exhibit the arrangement which, for many years, he had been accus- tomed to follow. The merits of this view, and of the arrangement followed, will, per- haps, be best estimated by a very concise no- tice of the subjects discussed, and in the or- der pursued by the author. Dr Gordon commenced his Lectures with some general remarks on the proper pro- vince of Physiology, on its present state, the nature of the facts which it comprehends, and on the theories which prevail in it. He121 JOHN GORDON, M.D. then noticed its interest as a branch of ge- neral knowledge, and its particular import- ance to the Medical Practitioner: mentioned the previous knowledge required in a Stu- dent of Physiology, particularly with regard to Anatomy, Natural Philosophy, and Che- mistry; and stated the order in which its phenomena ought to be studied. He pro- ceeded afterwards to arrange the whole sub- ject under four principal divisions:—the first treating of the Functions, in general, of the Common Systems and Common Textures of the Body: the second of the Functions, in general, of the Skeleton, and of Attitude and Progression: the third of Vision, Hear- ing and Respiration, and of the Alimentary, Urinary, and Generative functions: and the fourth, of the signs of Life and Death, the Phenomena of Natural decay, and the rate of Mortality among Mankind. A distinc- tion was then made between Elementary and Full views of Physiology; the former being those which contemplate the functions in that L122 MEMOIR OF condition only, which regards a state of Health—the latter embracing also the causes, in general, which modify these functions, and produce deviations from the healthy state. To this latter view the terms ‘ Insti- * tutions, or Theory of Medicine, ’ have been applied; and such was the view exhibited by Dr Gordon in these Lectures. The four great divisions above mentioned, were then subdivided into Parts—the Parts into Sec- tions—and the Sections into Articles; under which term all the particulars of the science were successively and minutely detailed. These Outlines of Physiology will, I be- lieve, be found to exhibit a fuller and more philosophical view of the science than has ever before been published in this country. The arrangement corresponds, in several re- spects, with that adopted previously in the author’s Anatomical Lectures—commencing with descriptions of the nature and proper- ties of the Common Systems and Textures, and proceeding afterwards to the functionsJOHN GORDON, M.D. 123 of particular and more .complex Organs. In a course of physiology, there will always be much latitude of choice in the plan of considering the several functions. Some functions, indeed, are so closely associated, either in position or in nature, that they cannot be separated without disadvantage; but others have so many and such varied rela- tions, that the order of treating of them admits of considerable latitude. In whatever part we begin, we commence, as it were, in a cir- cle ; for such are the mutual connexion and dependence of the several parts, that a de- scription of the function of any one organ involves a previous knowledge of that of many others. Perhaps the Nervous System, both in structure and in its primary office as the in- strument of sensation, may be regarded as, in character, the most distinct; while its ne- cessary agency in the display of living action, and the universality of its influence, seem to point it out as a fit subject for the commence- ment of the Course. This preference it ac- L 2MEMOIR OF 124- cordingly occupied in Dr Gordon’s Lectures; and a similar precedence, I observe, is as- signed to it in the recent elementary work of M. Magendie. In entering on the first c Division ’ of his Course, Dr Gordon exhibited a general view of the Anatomy of the Nervous System and Muscular Texture, and of their arrangement in the several parts of the body. Proceeding next to treat of the Nervous System in par- ticular, he began with its more obvious phe- nomena, viz. the impressions we receive from the actual contact of the bodies around us; or those of which we become conscious with- out visible contact. These impressions are denominated sensations, and the parts which are susceptible of them are said to be sensible, or to possess the property of sensibility. All sensations were referred to two great classes —Simple sensations, as those of Light, Heat, See.—and sensations of Emotion, as those of Love and Joy. The varieties of each class were farther distributed into genera, andI JOHN GORDON, M.D. 125 these genera again into species. It was then observed that some sensations were experi- enced in one part of the body only, as those of Light and Sound: others in more than one, as those of Touch, and of Heat and Cold; and others again still more universally, as those of Pain. Certain qualities, as those of Intensity, Strength or Degree, are common, it was said, to all sensations: others, as those of Position, Magnitude and Dimen- sion, belong to many genera: but those of Tone, Colour, &c. are peculiar to a few. With respect to the causes of sensa- tion, they may be divided into Proximate and Remote—the former consisting in some unknown change in the immaterial mind— the latter being the series of changes which precede the affection of the mind, and are necessary to it. The nature, qualities, and causes of sensa- tion having thus been stated, and the pro- perty of sensibility considered, Dr Gordon proceeded to offer some remarks on the dif- ferences in this property dependent on sexMEMOIR OF 126 and age; described the effects resulting from the direct application of various substances in modifying the sensibility of parts; and de- tailed also, at great length, the modifications produced by habit, by change of tempera- ture, or by change of condition in the sen- sitive organs themselves. He next described the modifications in sensibility, arising from causes which operate directly on the Nerve itself, or on the Brain and Spinal Cord, in the various conditions of accident and disease to which they are exposed. To this, succeed- ed remarks on the modifications of sensibi- lity, produced in distant parts by the recep- tion of different substances into the Stomach, the Lungs, and Intestines; and on the effects which follow the direct application of such substances to the Skin, or to wounded sur- faces ; with inquiries whether they operate through the medium of the Nervous or Vas- cular systems ? Lastly, The operation of cer- tain trains of ideas, or of sensations and ideas, during emotion, in modifying sensibility, was illustrated by the effects of certain depress-JOHN GORDON, M. D. 127 ing passions, by the deceptions of Animal Magnetism, and by other causes which act on the sensitive organs through the medium of the Imagination. From the agency of sensations on the Cor- poreal part of our frame, Dr Gordon pro- ceeded to offer a few remarks on those which more immediately affect the Mind, exciting in us what we call an Idea or Thought. The phenomenon called an Idea was first illustrat- ed; and the questions, whether we are cap- able of experiencing a sensation and an idea at one and the same moment, or more than one idea at a time, were next discussed. He con- sidered afterwards the causes, proximate and remote, of our ideas; described their excita- tion and sequence; and illustrated the prin- ciple of the Association of ideas, and that of Resemblance and Analogy. He then stated reasons for believing that every idea is pre- ceded by some Corporeal change, and men- tioned the hypotheses that have been suggest- ed to explain the seat of this change, whichMEMOIR OF 128 some physiologists have placed in the ex- tremities of the nerves, and others in the brain. Dr Gordon proceeded next to notice the differences in ideas dependent on sex and age, and also those original differences which are exhibited in different individuals. These lat- ter were referred to two classes; those which arise from differences in the influence of the principle of Association on the train of thought, occasioning the several varieties of Memory; and those which result from the varying in- fluence of the principle of Resemblance or Analogy : After which, the causes of these original differences were inquired into. In the same individual also, at different times, the ideas, or trains of thought are variously modified and changed, as occurs in Mental derangement; and in various Morbid states of the brain under different circumstances of accident and disease. Lastly, The train of ideas is modified, by the action of various sub- stances received into the stomach or lungs,129 JOHN GORDON, M. D. or applied to the skinof all which, numer- ous illustrations were given. In a variety of diseases also, the train of thought experi- ences numerous modifications. The property of living animals most near- ly allied to sensibility, is that of irritability, possessed more especially by the organs term- ed Muscles: but whether by muscle only, is uncertain. Irritability is that property of shortening, which the muscular fibre exhibits when acted upon by an appropriate stimulus. As long as this tendency to shorten exists, the muscle is said to be in action, and as soon as it has ceased, it is said to be in a state of relaxation; but the state of action may exist without shortening of the fibre. In the contraction which so commonly ac- companies muscular action, it has been sup- posed, that the fibres of the muscle were thrown into rugce or plaits; but by observa- tions and experiments on the Human body, and on the Lower animals, Dr Gordon dis- proved this opinion; and he farther ascer-MEMOIR OF 130 tained, that, during action, the thickness of the muscular fibre was not increased. He then considered at large other phenome- na attending Muscular action, as the bulk and hardness of muscle, and the force and extent of its action. The proximate cause of action in a muscle, he held to consist in a temporary increased attraction between the particles of the fibre: and the remote causes were pro- nounced to be Stimuli of various, kinds. Some of these stimuli operate primarily on the nerves, the spinal cord, or the brain: others act by means of Volition, or the Will. A- gain, some are named Sympathetic Stimuli; others, Stimuli of Emotion. Next followed observations on various stimuli, both chemi- cal and mechanical, applied directly to mus- cle, with inquiries whether they act mediately by the nerves of the fibres, or immediately on the fibres themselves; including remarks on the vis insita and vis nervea of Haller, and on the opinions of Whytt. The Muscular actions naturally going on in the body, are divisible into Voluntary and131 JOHN GORDON, M. D. Involuntary. The Voluntary actions are im- mediately called forth by motives which deter- mine the Will: the Involuntary are divisi- ble into three orders, viz. Sympathetic Ac- tions—Actions of Emotion—and those which excite the motions of the Heart, Intestines, &c. The uses of muscular actions in the living body were then described, as fitted either to produce or prevent motion of the solid and fluid parts, according to circum- stances; and the various modes in which the muscles are exerted, for these purposes, in the several members and organs of the body, were enumerated:—comprehending a general view of Muscular Motion, and of the functions which fall more immediately under the dominion of Muscular agency. After thus stating the more general phe- nomena of Irritability and Muscular action, Dr Gordon proceeded to consider those dif- ferences which they present under the varying conditions of sex and age: and those also which occur in different individuals, or areMEMOIR OP 132 exhibited, in the same individual, at diffe- rent times. Under this latter head, the phenomena of Paralysis, Convulsion, &c. were noticed; and the effect of practice over voluntary actions, both as it affects the rapidity or force of movement, was discussed. The several caus- es which may modify voluntary actions, by operating directly on the muscle, or on the nerve leading to it, or on the brain or spinal cord, were next enumerated ; as were those also which produce similar effects, when ap- plied to various natural or wounded surfaces of the body. Lastly, The modification of voluntary action produced by trains of ideas, or of sensations and ideas occurring during emotion, and those also which arise in the different orders of involuntary actions, were exemplified. Some observations on the sen- sibility and nourishment of muscle were then made; and these were followed by a few re- marks on certain other alleged properties of muscle, as those of Elasticity, Tone, and Con-133 JOHN GORDON, M. D. tractility, which concluded the subject of Ir- ritability, as developed in the various actions and movements of the muscular texture. To the subject of Irritability succeeded a few general remarks on the Nature of Emo- tions, and the phenomena which constitute and characterize them ; on the differences in emotion among different individuals, and in the same individual at different times; and on those differences also which depend on age and sex. By the natural exertion of the voluntary muscular powers, fatigue sooner or later comes on, emotions cease to be excited, and the system sinks into that state of repose termed Sleep. The state of the system dur- ing sleep, the phenomena denoting its ap- proach, commencement,and termination; and its duration and causes, were next investigat- ed. The differences in sleep dependent on age, and the various states and conditions of imperfect or interrupted sleep, were de- tailed ; and an enumeration was made of the things or causes, whether natural or ar- MMEMOIR OF 134 trficial, which favour or prevent the ap- proach and continuance of sleep. Over all the functions hitherto described, the Brain and Spinal Cord exert a direct and immediate influence, and therefore a few ob- servations on the physiology of those organs formed an appropriate termination of this portion of the Course. These observations commenced with a description of the advan- tages resulting from the actual construction of the Cranium, as adapted to protect the brain; followed by observations on the ad- mirable combination of strength and mobili- ty displayed in the Vertebral Column, and on the protection which, at the same time, it affords to the spinal cord. The sensibility, nourishment, and uses ofthe Dura Mater, were next discussed; and then followed a de- scription of the functions of the Pia Mater and Arachnoid Membrane, with observations on the nourishment and secretions of all these parts, and of the brain itself, the spi- nal cord, and the nerves. Having thus delivered the functions ofJOHN GORDON, M. D. 135 the Nervous System and Muscular Texture, Dr Gordon next proceeded to describe the functions, in general, of the Circulating Sys- tem. With this view, he described the Cir- culation of the Blood as discovered by Harvey;—traced the course of that fluid through the heart in particular, detailing the peculiarities of structure, and the various actions of that organ ;—then followed it successively through the arteries and veins, both of the System in general and of the Lungs; and estimated the number of the heart’s actions in a given time, and the cir- cumstances and conditions which variously modify them, so as to create the several states or varieties of the pulse. He discoursed next of the differences in the circulation of the blood, dependent on sex and age; and on those also which de- pend either on varieties in the Irritability of the heart itself, or in its natural Stimulus, the blood. Among the causes affecting the irritability of the heart, the circulation of M 2136 MEMOIR OF morbid blood through its fibres; affections of the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerves ; the application of various substances to the surfaces of the alimentary canal, the lungs, or the skin; sensations of smell, of heat and of cold, of nausea and of pain: trains of ideas, or of sensations and ideas, during emotion : and certain actions, either natural or morbid, were enumerated. It was then stated, that variations in the stimulant power of the blood may arise, either from the quantity of that fluid present in the cavities of the heart, or from the force with which it is made to act, or from its composition, inde- pendently both of its quantity and force—of all which positions, various illustrations were afforded. Some causes still more doubtful were also mentioned: and lastly, differences in the circulation through the arteries and veins, and in the actions of those vessels, as they modify that of the heart, were briefly discussed. Passing, in the next place, to a conside- ration of the Composition and Properties of137 JOHN GORDON, M.D. the blood, Dr Gordon spoke of the attempts that have been made to estimate its total quantity; delivered the distinguishing cha- racters of arterial and venous blood; and detailed fully their natural and chemical pro- perties. He then described the Coagulation of the blood, and the phenomena which at- tend it, detailing the effects of various cir- cumstances and agents which influence that curious process. The differences in the Composition of the blood, occurring at different ages, in different individuals, and under different kinds and states of disease, were next enumerated ; and the effects produced on the living body, by varying the quantity of blood circulating in it, as in the ordinary operation of Blood-let- ting, were noticed. The phenomena which follow the Transfusion of blood from one ani- mal into another, and those also which arise from mingling different substances with the blood while circulating in the vessels, were afterwards detailed: And lastly, the alterations produced in the blood by the absorption ofMEMOIR OF 138 substances from natural or wounded surfaces, and by imperfect respiration, were described. During its circulation through the system, the blood suffers, in the various organs of the body, those changes termed Secretion, by which new substances are formed different alike from each other, and from their pri- mary source, the blood. The function of secretion is of two kinds;—one affording sub- stances destined to nourish and repair the body, and named therefore Nutritive secre- tion;—the other, yielding products, which, after serving their destined uses, are in great part expelled from the system, and is styled therefore, Excretive secretion. In all Secretions, it was said, the blood seems to pass off from the circulating mass through Capillary arteries, though doubts exist with respect to the Liver. The man- ner in which the fluid is separated in Nutritive secretion, that is, whether by nutrient vessels or lateral pores, was next considered. The varieties of Excretive se- cretion wer ethen arranged under three139 JOHN GORDON, M.D. classesthose in which the excreted fluid was poured out through a tube or tubes; those in which it escaped by pores; and those in which its escape, neither by pores nor tubes, could be perceived—under which heads, all the secretions of the body were enumerated and arranged.* The manner in which the blood is conveyed from the capil- lary arteries in each of these three classes of organs, and the nature and causes of the conversion which it undergoes, were next inquired into. In every instance, the con- version was attributed to Chemical change, but of the precise nature of this change, no- thing, it was said, is known. „ A brief view of the hypotheses suggested to explain Se- cretion, as those of Electricity, Nervous Influence, and a supposed Vital Principle, was exhibited—all of which were considered as unsatisfactory. The differences which arise in the exercise of the Secretory Functions from age, sex, and individual constitution: and the modifi- cations produced in them by a state of in- * See Appendix, No. 5.MEMOIR OF 140 flammation; by the action of Stimulant or Sedative Substances on the secreting part; by causes operating on the Nerve leading to the secreting part, or on the Brain and Spinal Cord; and by certain trains of ideas, or of sensations and ideas, were severally considered and illustrated. Next the viodi- ficat.ions in secretion arising from the appli- cation of substances to the Natural Surfaces of the Alimentary Canal, the Skin or the Lungs—comprehending a general inquiry into the action of Medicines, when received into the Stomach or applied to the Skin, and into the effects of vapours and effluvia, when inhaled into the Lungs, were describ- ed : and then followed inquiries into the o- peration of various Animal, Vegetable, and Mineral poisons, when applied to Wounded Surfaces, and which so modify and change the action of the Secretory Organs, as, in many instances, to create and propagate specific disease. Although a great part of the fluid, separa- ted in the several processes of Excretive se- cretion, is in various ways discharged from141 JOHN GORDON, M. D. the system, yet a considerable portion is again taken up, and reconveyed into the blood. The organs supposed to execute this function are small vessels named Ab- sorbents, which are distributed on every sur- face and through every texture of the body. Except those of the intestines, which take up the milky fluid called Chyle, these ves- sels commonly absorb a Colourless Lymph, the course of which in the vessels, and the powers by which they are supposed to act, Dr Gordon first considered: To this suc- ceeded observations on the composition and properties of the Lymph, both Lacteal and Colourless; and on the sources from which they are derived. These sources are either foreign matter, introduced by the alimen- tary canal and lungs, and perhaps by the skin; or matter which has already formed the solid parts of the body, or been separated from its fluids by excretive secretion. Since the time of the illustrious brothers, William and John Hunter, both the milky and colourless lymph have been consideredMEMOIR OP 112 to be absorbed by appropriate vessels, nam- ed respectively Lacteal and Lymphatic Ab- sorbents : but M. Magendie has lately reviv- ed the more ancient opinion, that the 4 Lac- 4 teal lymph alone is taken up by Absorbent ‘ vessels: that the Vessels, which contain the 4 Colourless lymph, possess no absorbent * power, but originate from the terminations 4 of Arteries; that the Colourless lymph is a 4 part of the Blood returning to the heart by 4 these vessels, instead of the veins: and 4 finally, that all the absorptions hitherto 4 ascribed to these vessels, are perform- 4 ed by Capillary Veins. ’* To these doc- trines Dr Gordon made various objections; and it did not appear to him that M. Magendie’s objections to Hunter’s experi- ments were valid, or that the new experi- ments, by which he attempted to reestablish the old doctrine, were satisfactory. The manner in which the lymph obtains admission into the Lacteal vessels (in which the process is best seen) was then noticed, * Outlines of Physiology, p. 76.143 JOHN GORDON, M.D. and it was presumed to be similar in the o- ther absorbent vessels: but whether the mouths of the absorbents have a power of selection over the particles of lymph, or these particles enter by Capillary Attraction, was considered as still doubtful. Respecting the changes which the lymph undergoes in its course, and the uses of the Absorbent Glands, little or nothing has been ascertained. This branch of the subject was terminated by a view of the functions of the Absorbent and Circulating systems reciprocally considered. It was shown that the waste of blood, by the various excretions, was continually repaired by the addition of new matter: and that, ac- cording to the proportion between the actions of deposition and absorption, there is growth or wasting, or permanency of bulk, in parts. After exhibiting these views of the Nervous Circulating and Absorbent Systems, which more or less contribute to the construction of the several Textures and Organs, Dr Gordon entered on the functions of some particular Textures, also of very general144- MEMOIR OF distribution. He described first the func- tions of that Cellular Substance, or tissue which connects together the elementary parts or systems: and those also of the Adi- pose tissue, in which the fat is contained. These, by an easy gradation, led to the varied and important functions of the Skin, still but imperfectly understood. The use of the Skin as an organ of Touch, and the different Sensations, whether plea- sureable or painful, which it receives and con- veys : the qualities of these sensations: their causes: and the judgment formed from them of the several properties of bodies, were first described. The differences in touch depend- ent on sex and age, or on individual consti- tution : the modifications it experiences from the effects of pressure and temperature; from a state of inflammation ; from the operation of certain drugs; from affections of the brain, the spinal cord or nerves; and from the ap- plication of substances to the alimentary ca- nal, or the lungs, were next treated of at great length. To these succeeded remarks145 JOHN GORDON, M.D. on the influence which certain sensations in the Skin exert on the other functions of the body, as those of Heat and Cold on the sen- sibility in genera], on the train of thought, on muscular motion, on sleep, and on the circulation of the blood. Certain insensible impressions on the skin were then said to be indicated only by the effects which they pro- duce on the functions of other parts; such are those which result from the application of Tobacco, Opium, Tartrite of Antimony, Mercury &c. Dr Gordon next proceeded to describe the Excretions from the surface of the skin, wheh er occurring in the form of Sweat, of a peculiar Oily matter, or of a Sebaceous sub- stance. The composition and properties of the sweat, the mode of its secretion, its quantity and uses; the differences in its ex- cretion depending on age, sex, and indivi- dual constitution: the various causes which modify its production; and its influence on the other functions of the body, were suc- N146 MEMOIR OF cessively detailed. The supposed excretion of Elastic fluids by the skin, was declared not to be established: and doubts were ex- pressed whether any excretion of Carbonace- ous matter takes place from this organ. The question, whether or not Absorption goes on from the surface of the skin, was discussed; and the experiments and arguments for and against that opinion reviewed. Immediately connected with the skin is the Hair which protrudes from it; the qualities, growth, and uses of which, in different parts, were considered and described. Of the re- maining Common Textures, Dr Gordon next described the functions of Cartilage, its nour- ishment and uses; and considered afterwards those of Osseous Substance, or Bone. The formation, nourishment, and uses of bone, the changes it experiences from age, and the modifications which it exhibits, were se- verally noted: and to this was added a de- scription of the functions and uses of Ten- dinous Substance. To conclude this account147 JOHN GORDON, M. D. of the Common Systems and Textures, and, with it, of the first Division of the Cour se, the functions of Serous and Synovial mem- brane, the properties of the fluids they se- crete, and their uses, were detailed. In entering on the second ‘ Division ’ of the Course—embracing a description of the Bones in their living state, and the Move- ments of which they are susceptible by means of the muscles—Dr Gordon first treated of the Substance of the bones, and of the advan- tages resulting from their Form in different parts of the Skeleton : next of their Growth, and the changes they undergo after maturity; and then of certain Diseases to which they are subject, and which have greatly contri- buted to illustrate their structure. He dis- coursed also of the Marrow of the bones, and its uses; of the substance called Periosteum, which invests the bones; of the Cartilages and Ligaments by which the connexions of the bones with each other are maintained; N 2MEMOIR OF 148 and of the motions of the several Joints or Articulations. Passing then to the various Motions of which the different parts of the skeleton are susceptible, he treated first of those of the Head, and of the muscles which produce them; then of the motions of the Trunk, incl uding remarks on Attitude; and also of of the Trunk as a Piilar of support; next of the motions of the Upper Extremities, with remarks on Prehension; and lastly, of the motions of the Lower Extremities, includ- ing Station and Progression—which termi- nated the subjects of the second division. All the Functions hitherto considered may be deemed general, as being respectively ap- plicable to many similar parts of the animal system; but there are several others which are limited to particular seats and organs, the complex nature of which will be more easily apprehended, now that the simpler parts and functions, which conspire to pro-149 JOHN GORDON, M. D. duce them, have been described. Of these functions, the principal are those of Vision, of Hearing, and of Respiration ; the several processes which constitute the Alimentary function; and the Urinary and Generative functions—together with a fewothers, which, from position and connexion, may be advan- tageously treated with them. ( Our sight, ’ says the incomparable Ad- dison, ‘ is the most perfect, and most de- ‘ lightful of all our senses. It fills the mind ‘ with the largest variety of ideas, converses ‘ with its objects at the greatest distance, and ( continues the longest in action without be- * ing tired or satiated with its proper enjoy- ‘ ments. ’ Although to accomplish its des- tined use, every part of the body is con- structed with the same exquisite skill, yet there is, perhaps, no organ, which, from the variety, the beauty, and delicacy of its parts, the admirable adjustments it displays, and the facility with which its functions can be studied, that has excited so much atten-150 MEMOIR OF tion as the Eye. The knowledge of the pro- perties of Light, disclosed by the Natural Philosopher, has greatly aided the Physiolo- gist in investigating both the structure and functions of this organ; and it may safely be affirmed, that, in few organs of the body, has the minute structure of the parts been so successfuly displayed, and their individual and combined actions so completely made known. To every thing connected with the subject of Vision, whether in Anatomy, Op- tics, or Metaphysics, Dr Gordon had paid particular attention, and had sought infor- mation from every available source. At the very period of his lamented death, he was engaged with his friend Dr Brewster, in in- quiries into the structure and refractive pow- ers of the coats and humours of the Human Eye : and in rendering an account of his la- bours, the terms in which that distinguished Philosopher has spoken of his late Associate, are such as high worth and talents could alone deserve. ‘ The anatomical structure of theJOHN GORDON, M. D. 151 4 crystalline lens,’ says Dr Brewster, in con- cluding his Esssay 4 presented many curi- 4 ous phenomena, which, with the aid and 4 encouragement of Dr Gordon, I was in- * duced to investigate. The premature loss * of that distinguished individual put a tem- 4 porary stop to pursuits, which owed their * origin and continuance to his wishes; but 4 though the inquiry was in some degree 4 foreign to my own studies, and by no means * inviting to one unaccustomed to anatomi- 4 cal operations, I have resumed and com- ‘ pleted it from the same motives which in- 4 duced me to undertake it. Whatever im- * portance may be attached to it by physio- 4 logists, it will always have to me the high- 4 er value, of being the only memorial I can * leave of a friendship I deeply valued, and * the best tribute I can pay to the memory 4 of distinguished talents and exalted worth.’* Dr Gordon arranged the subject of Vision under two heads, treating first of the func- Edin. Phil. Journal, vol. i. p. 45.MEMOIR OE 152 tions of the Eyeball; and next of the func- tions of the Appendages of the Eye. He discoursed first of the qualities of the sensa- tions of Light with relation to intensity, co- lour, direction, See.; and then inquired into the causes of those sensations, tracing them to the effects of Light acting on the Retina of the Eye, but the nature of which action is unknown. He next described the effects pro- duced on the rays of Light in their progress through the transparent parts of the Eye; showed how an inverted image of the Object seen was formed on the Retina; and that distinct vision was owing to a dictinct image of the object being so formed. Adverting then to the advantages resulting from the pe- culiar structure, form, and position of each individual part of the eye, he proceeded to treat of the Sphere of general and distinct vision, when the eyeball is Jixed; then of the motions of the eyeball, and of the muscles which produce them ; and afterwards, of the adaptation of the eye for the distinct visionJOHN GORDON, M. D. 153 of objects at different distances. To this succeeded remarks on the secretion, nourish- ment, 8cc. of the Humours of the eye, and on the nourishment and sensibility of the Re- tina. The functions of the Iris, including remarks on the varied colour and movements of the Pupil, together with the functions of the Choroid and Sclerotic coats, were next separately considered; and some observations were then made on the sensibility and nour- ishment of the Cornea. Proceeding next to inquire into the causes of the different qualities perceptible in sensa- tions of Light, Dr Gordon stated the circum- stances on which the intensity or brightness, and the colour or hue of these sensations de- pend ; as well as those circumstances also on which depend the position or direction, and the magnitude and figure of sensations of Light. He treated afterwards of Vision with both eyes, in which it was advanced, that, when an Image of any object is formed on correspond- ing points of the two Retinae, that object isMEMOIR OF 154- seen single; but that, when the image is not so formed, the object is seen double. The judgments which, from sight, we form of the direction, magnitude, figure, distance, and motion of bodies, were next discussed : and proofs adduced that, except perhaps in re- gard to figure, our judgments of the other qualities are not formed from the visible ap- pearance alone, but on that, combined with a knowledge of other circumstances. The differences that occur in the functions of the Eyeball dependent on age, or on original differences among different individuals, or in the same individual at different times, and the several modifications in vision pro- duced thereby, were next enumerated; and the subject was terminated by descriptions of the functions of the Eyelids, the Eye- brows, and the Lachrymal organs. The next function considered was that of Hearing. The anatomy of the Ear Dr Gor- don had studied with peculiar care, as e- vinced by the beautiful and correct delinea-JOHN GORDON, M.D. 155 tions of it, given in his engravings of the Skeleton, already noticed. Nor had he been less attentive to its physiology, his lec- tures on this function exhibiting the results of many ingenious and original experiments. He. first enumerated the several qualities of sensations of sound, and inquired next into the causes of those-sensations;—then showed that sonorous vibrations were communicated to the internal ear, either by the ordinary external passage, or by the solid parts of the head;—and afterwards followed the progress of these vibrations across the tympanum to the Labyrinth, and their propagation from thence to the Auditory Nerve. He next stated experiments, made by himself and o- thers, to prove the communication of simi- lar vibrations to the labyrinth by the solid parts of the head, and showed their appli- cation in deciding on the nature of deaf- ness, and in teaching deaf mutes to speak. In discussing the causes of the different qua- lities perceptible in sensations of sound, DrMEMOIR OF 156 Gordon treated of the Tone or Pitch of Sound; of the Connexion subsisting between the tone of the sensations, and the Number of vibrations performed by a sounding body in a given time;—and next of the Sensation experienced when two or more bodies are made to emit sounds of different tones at the same moment. The circumstances on which the Loudness or Strength of the sensations depends; and the Connexion between the loudness of the sensations, and the Extent described by the vibrations that produce them, in a given time, with many other phenomena regarding the combinations, di- rections, and properties of sounds, were duly noticed. He proceeded afterwards to the subject of Hearing with two Ears, con- sidered with reference to the number of sounding bodies heard, and to the Loudness and Tones of the sounds: and next inquired into the Judgments formed by the sense of Hearing of the nature of the sounding body, its distance, direction, magnitude and form,JOHN GORDON, M.D. .157 and the conditions by which these are re- spectively determined, with observations on the nature of that deceptive art known by the name of Ventriloquism. The differences in the functions of the Ear dependent on age; or on original conforma- tion in the nice perception of tone, of loud- ness, and of other qualities of sound :—the susceptibility of pleasureable emotion from certain successions and combinations of sounds, giving origin to the Musical ear : and the circumstances which affect the strength of sensations of sound, as illustrated in vari- ous examples of deafness, concluded the his- tory of this interesting function. The question next submitted to discus- sion, was the important subject of Respira- tion, which comprehended three principal Articles; 1st, the Inspiration and Expiration of -Air; 2dly, the Changes produced in the air during its respiration; and, Sdly, the Changes produced by the air on the blood. Under the head of Inspiration, Dr Gor- don first treated of the natural capacity of oMEMOTR OF 158 the Chest and Lungs ; of the causes of their enlargement, and the powers by which it is produced; and of the bulk of air inhaled in an ordinary inspiration, which, by ex- periments on himself, he estimated at 37 cubic inches, and, by the utmost possible in- spiring effort, at 130 cubic inches. Passing then to Expiration, he described the dimi- nution of the cavity of the Chest, the effects of this diminution on the lungs, and the powers by which it is produced. He next stated, that the bulk of air ordinarily ex- pired, equalled exactly that of the air or- dinarily inspired: but that, by an extreme expiration after an extreme inspiration, he could expel from his lungs about 260 cubic inches of air. He reckoned about 20 re- spirations to be made in a minute; and then inquired into the nature of the Sti- mulus which excites the respiratory mus- cles to act, both in Inspiration and Expi- ration. Having thus described the function of Re- spiration in its ordinary and more perfect159 JOHN GORDON, M. D. state, Dr Gordon next treated of the dif- ferences in its exercise, dependent on sex and age: of those original differences observ- ed among different individuals: and also of those differences, which occur in the same individual at different times. Under this latter head, he described the modifications in the exercise of this function produced by sleep; by the operation of various emotions: by variations in the quantity or quality of the blood in the lungs: by the effects of strong voluntary actions: by causes operat- ing primarily on the Brain or Spinal Cord: by various agents applied to the Natural or Wounded Surfaces of the body: and by numerous states and conditions of Disease. The bulk of air inspired may also be modi- fied by causes independent of the actions of the respiratory muscles, as by circumstances which affect the Capacity of the lungs them- selves, or of the Cavities in which they are Proceeding next to consider the changes produced in the qualities of the inspired air, o 2MEMOIR OF 160 Dr Gordon stated its temperature to be in- creased, and that it loses a part of its Oxygen gas, and gains an exactly equal bulk of Car- bonic acid gas, while its Azotic portion is ex- pelled unaltered. With respect to the man- ner in which this change in the chemical composition of the respired air is brought about, he considered the view, which, seve- ral years ago, the writer of this Memoir ventured to propose, # as the most probable: viz. (that Carbonaceous matter is excreted ‘ into the air cells of the Lungs, by the ‘ blood-vessels of those organs;—that, in ‘ these cells, this matter combines directly ‘ with part of the oxygen of the air respired, ‘ and forms carbonic acid gas;—that all the ‘ oxygen which the inspired air loses is em- ‘ ployed in the formation of this acid;—and ‘ that all the oxygen contained in this acid, ‘ has been derived from the inspired air.’ f * Inquiries into the Changes induced on Atmospheric Air by the Germinations of Seeds, the Vegetation of Plants, and the Respiration of Animals. Edinburgh, 1807 and 1811. f Outlines of Physiology, p. 146.JOHN GORDON, M. D. 161 Beside this change in temperature and che- mical composition, the air expired is charged with watery vapour, the source, quantity and composition of which were described. By vari- ous experiments, Dr Gordon ascertained this vapour to be water nearly pure, without any apparent admixture either of Animal or Sa- line matter. He then noticed the change in its electrical state which the air, during its respiration, suffers; and also the facts which suggested the opinion that a part of the air respired suffers, for a time, condensation in the Lungs. A description of the variations in the amount of the changes induced on the air, dependent on sex and age, or on differ- ences in individuals, at different times and in different circumstances, was then deliver- ed : and an enumeration of the changes pro- duced, by respiration, on gases differing in composition from atmospheric air, concluded this second branch of the respiratory func- tion. Treating, in the next place, of the chan-162 MEMOIR OF ges of colour produced in the blood, dur- ing its transmission through the Lungs, Dr Gordon first noticed the change from Mo- dena to Scarlet, which depends, says he, in the first instance, on the disappearance of oxygen from the air inspired, and the simul- taneous formation of an equal bulk of car- bonic acid gas: but how this chemical pro- cess operates, it is not, he adds, easy to con- jecture. To the suppositions that this change of colour in the blood, is to be attributed either to the effect of the Carbonic Acid form- ed: or to the excretion of Carbonaceous matter; or to any combination of Oxygen with the blood; or to the Caloric set free in the lungs, he stated various objections. Nei- ther do we know more how the opposite change of colour from Scarlet to Modena is brought about, during the circulation through the other parts of the system. Connected with the Chemical changes that take place between the air and blood in the lungs, is the subject of Animal Tempera- ture, or the means by which, at all times and163 JOHN GORDON) M. D. in all seasons, the animal body is enabled to preserve nearly an uniform degree of heat. The opinion of Dr Black that Caloric is ex- tricated in the lungs, during the conversion of oxygen gas into carbonic acid, and that the blood thence derives the heat which it afterwards communicates to the system, was first noticed: next the experiments of Craw- ford on the different capacities of Arterial and Venous blood for heat, and also on those of Oxygen and Carbonic acid gases, were re- ferred to; and the objections lately brought against them detailed. It was then stated, that the experiments of the same philoso- pher, and those of MM. Lavoisier and Laplace, made to ascertain the comparative quantities of caloric, extricated in the forma- tion of equal quantities of Carbonic acid, by the consumption of oxygen in respiration and combustion, placed this theory of a- nimal heat on grounds quite independent of Crawford’s doctrine of capacities; and proved that respiration might be a source of animal temperature, by evidence whichmemoir OF 164- some experiments recently performed, and which seem to affect rather the evolution than source of caloric, were considered not sufficient to invalidate. Along with the change of Colour which the blood exhibits in the lungs, it seems to undergo, likewise, a change of Composition of the utmost importance to the animal e- conomy, which, for the sake of brevity, and until its nature be better known, may be called its{ Essential change.’ Thermo^cause of this change, says Dr Gordon, is the same as that which alters the colour of the blood: the more immediate cause is quite unknown. After this description of the natural and healthy actions that go on in the lungs, Dr Gordon proceeded to state the variations that occur in different individuals, and un- der different circumstances, with regard to the degree of change effected in the colour, temperature, and other properties of the blood. He detailed next the effects produc- ed on the blood by the respiration of various gases differing, in chemical composition,165 JOHN GORDON, M. D. from atmospheric air; and then made some observations on the sensibility, nourishment, excretions, and absorptions of the lungs. With the air inhaled, other substances often find admission into the lungs, which, though they produce no sensible impression, are yet more or less noxious to Life. Under this head were considered the effects which arise from breathing the air of confined and crowd- ed apartments, or of those in which the com- bustion of charcoal is going on: also the re- spiration of certain gases, differing more or less in composition from the air of the at- mosphere. The effects likewise, which ensue from impregnations of the air by Vegetable miasmata and Contagious effluvia, formed a large part of these discussions : and to these succeeded observations on the impregnations of the inspired air by Alcohol, Opium, To- bacco, Lead, Mercury &c. Lastly, an ac- count of the functions of the Pleura, or membrane that lines the Thoracic cavity and of the Trachea, as a part of the Respiratory166 MEMOIR OF organs, was made to terminate the descrip- tion of the several parts of the respiratory function. The air, after performing its important office within the lungs, is expelled from those organs through the Trachea or Wind- pipe, the general structure and functions of which, Dr Gordon briefly described. He next considered the Windpipe as a regulator of the quantity of air inspired and expired. This it accomplishes by changes in the po- sition of the parts forming the Larynx, by which means enlargement or diminution of the Glottis is produced. The occasions on which these changes take place were then noticed ; and the muscles which produce them, toge- ther with the stimuli that excite them to act, were described. It was added, that various causes, by exciting spasmodic ac- tions in the muscles, vary the diameter of the Glottis; and that certain other causes diminish its diameter, independent of the action of these muscles.167 JOHN GORDON, M. D. In its escape through the Windpipe, the air contributes to the formation of the Voice, and consequently of Speech, one of the most distinguishing attributes of man. In prose- cuting this subject, Dr Gordon first deliver- ed some observations relative to the Number of organs concerned in the production ol Voice: and then descanted on the Qualities perceptible in the sounds of the voice, and on their Causes. The causes were said to de- pend on the Glottis, the action of which, ac- cording to M. Magendie, is similar to that of a Reed-Instrument. The circumstances on which the qualities of the sounds of the voice, as their Tone, Intensity, and Tym- bre depend; the various nature of the Sti- muli which excite the muscles of the voice to act: and the modifications of voice aris- ing from age, sex, and other circumstances, were delivered. Dr Gordon proceeded next to treat of Speech. Language was considered as a system of sounds, produced by the Vocal Organs and other parts,MEMOIR OF 16S and connected, by the principle of previous Association, with certain ideas; and Speech, as the pi’oduction of these sounds, by these organs. An analysis of the Sounds of which the English Language is composed, was then instituted, and the manner in which they are produced, described. They were divided into two classes, viz. Laryngeal and Oral. Of each individual sound an illustration was given, together with a description of the Configura- tion of the parts by which it was produced. Next, the combination of these Simple Sounds to form Words, the rules observed in Speech with respect to Tones and Loudness, and Words considered with relation to their mean- ing, were all separately treated. The sub- ject was terminated, by remarks on the pro- gress of the child, in acquiring the pronun- ciation of words, and the sort of induction by which it learns to attach meaning to them. # * The subject of Speech, physiologically considered, was treated at considerable length by Dr Gordon in a very interesting Article, entitled ‘ Dumb and Deaf, ’ written169 JOHN GORDON, M. D. There is yet another function of these parts different altogether in its nature from those just considered, yet in position closely connected for the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia. In this Article, the education of Deaf-mutes is referred to the four following heads, viz. Writing, Manual Speech, Vocal Speech, and the Explanation of the meaning of words. It is under the head Vocal Speech, by means of which, these unfortunate persons may be taught ‘ both to emit sounds and to articu- ‘ late them, merely by observing, with the organs of touch ‘ and sight, those minute vibrations of the throat, and 1 those rapid and delicate motions of the parts belonging to , the mouth, which accompany the speech of others, ’ that Dr Gordon enters into an enumeration of the various sounds which compose speech, and the different modes in which these sounds are begun and ended. These sounds he distinguishes into Laryngeal and Oral-, or those which are produced entirely by the Larynx, and those which are only produced by some parts belonging to the Mouth. In the English language, there are twenty-one Laryngeal sounds, all differing in ex- pression from each other. Of all these, a distinct analysis is made, in which examples of the varieties of sounds, their expression, and the actions of the parts concerned in pro- ducing them, are detailed. The Oral sounds are onlyyti;e in number. Like the former, they are distinguished from each other by their expression ; but are said to differ from them in not being susceptible of the slightest variety of PMEMOIR OF 170 with them; and with respiration, at least, si- multaneously performed. It is the sense of Smelling, as exercised by the inspiration of air through the nose. In the usual order, Dr Gordon treated first of the qualities of sensations of smell, as their Intensity, O- dour, Direction, Magnitude, and Form ; and then of their causes. These sensations are always preceded by the passage through the nose of air of a particular quality, which quality is derived from the addition of certain \ effluvia, emanated from particular bodies, and tone. Of these also, a similar analysis i3 given. 4 On a 4 comparison of the elementary sounds of our language, 4 and the modes of beginning and ending them, with the 4 written characters by which they are represented, it will 4 be seen,’ says Dr Gordon, ‘ that our alphabet is extremely 4 imperfect; since there is not a distinct letter for each 4 simple sound, and for each mode of beginning and end- ‘ ing; but some sounds and modes are represented by one 4 letter, and others by a combination of letters.’—-‘|It is this, he adds, 4 among other circumstances, that renders a pro- * nouncing dictionary so necessary even to natives, and which 4 occasions so much difficulty to the foreigner, and to per- 4 sons in the situation of the deaf and dumb. ’JOHN GORDON, M. D. 171 hence denominated Odoui's. Reasons wei*e then assigned for believing that the air pro- duces the sensations of smell, by acting oil the parts comprehended within the upper meatus alone of the nose;—and circumstances were stated by which the qualities of the sensa- tions, with regard to intensity, odour, &c. are vai’ied. An inquiry, how far we are capable of judging of the nature, distance, direction, &c. of odorous bodies by sensations of smell, was then made. The causes which contribute to modify sensations of smell, under the different circumstances of sex, age, and individual con- stitution, and the influence which they some- times exert on other functions of the body, were next detailed;—and lastly, it was in- quired, how far the nose may be considered as an organ of sensations of touch; of heat and of cold; of taste and of pain; and the nourishment, excretions, and absolutions of the Nose were then described. To support the waste occasioned by the various excretive secretions already describ- p 2172 MEMOIR OF ed, and maintain the due growth and stabi- lity of the system, new supplies of foreign matter are continually needed. These un- dergo various successive changes, compre- hended under the general denomination of the Alimentary Function. In discoursing on this function, Dr Gordon treated, first of the introduction of solid and fluid substances, as Food, into the mouth ; of the sensations of Taste they produce, and of the qualities of these sensations, as to intensity, savour, po- sition, &c. He discoursed next of the Ex- tent of Surface over which these sensations are felt, and of their causes. These consist in the application of certain bodies called Sapid to the sensible part, andwhich act ge- nerally in a state of partial solution. The various circumstances of age, sex, and indi- vidual constitution, which may modify sensa- tions of taste, were then enumerated; and the influence of these sensations on the other functions of the body described. The favour of food wras stated to depend not on the Taste173 JOHN GORDON, M.D. of it, but on the Sensation of Smell it occa- sions. And notice was taken of the sensa- tions of Touch, of Heat and Cold, and of Pain, produced by food in the mouth. Then followed an account of the substances ming- led with the food in the mouth, as the Sali- va, with a description of its quantity, its che- mical composition and properties, of the or- gans by which it is formed, and the circum- stances which modify its excretion. The food thus mingled with the saliva is submitted to the process of mastication, which introduced an account of the Structure and Functions of the Teeth ; the uses of each class of teeth; and their successive formation and disappearance at certain periods of life. Connected with the teeth, in this operation, are the Motions of the Lower Jaw, which were next described, as well as certain motions of the Tongue which assist in the process. When duly prepared in the mouth, the food is pass- ed into the Pharynx, by the action of Deglu- tition, performed by certain powers, which174. MEMOIR OF were then described; and from thence, by the (Esophagus, it is conveyed into the Stomach. The form and structure of this last organ, its capacity, the sensations of which it is susceptible, its secretions, and the chemical changes which they produce on the food, constituting the function of Digestion, were severally discussed; to which succeed- ed an account of the propulsion of the food into the small intestines; of the powers by which that operation is accomplished; of the stimulus exciting the action of these powers, and the circumstances which modify their actions. Arrived thus in a digested state in the In- testine, the food there undergoes farther chemical changes, which lead to the forma- tion of the Chyle. The agents employed in effecting these changes are, first, the Bile, the chemical composition and properties of which were detailed, together with an ac- count of its secretion by the Liver, and an inquiry whether it be secreted by the VenaJOHN G015D0N, M.D. 175 Portarum or Hepatic artery. Its passage from the liver either into the Intestine, or Gall-bladder, and the causes which modify its quantity or quality, or more or less com- pletely obstruct its flow, were then described; and some remarks made on the derangements of the biliary system thence arising. Besides the Liver, the Spleen has been supposed to assist in this part of the alimen- tary function. Its structure was therefore de- scribed, and a brief notice taken of the hypotheses advanced in relation to it;—but of its real function, nothing satisfactory was declared to be known. Concerning the Pan- creas, we have better information; and the chemical history and properties of its se- creted fluid, the mode of its formation, and the quantity and manner in which it flows into the intestine, were described. With these fluids are mixed those furnished by the intestine itself; and an inquiry was then insti- tuted into the manner in which all these a- gents operate on the food, and the circum- stances which modify their action.MEMOIR OF 176 In the state of chyle to which the digested aliment is now brought, its nutritive part is taken up by the Lacteal absorbents, and, by the route of the Thoracic duct, is conveyed into the blood. With that fluid it is inti- mately mixed, and, in its transmission through the lungs, becomes assimilated with it; so that, in its subsequent circulation through the body, it is rendered fit for the purposes of nutrition and repair. The portion of ali- mentary matter, not convertible into chyle, is passed onward by a peculiar action called j'peristaltic, into the larger intestines—where it undergoes still farther chemical changes, and is finally expelled from the body by the agency of powers, which were next enume- rated and described. Such is the successive series of actions to which the food is subjected in its progress through the alimentary canal. To the con- tinued exercise of these actions, we are ex* cited by the regularly returning sensations of Hunger and Thirst, the nature, causes,177 JOHN GORDON, M D. and modifications of which formed the next subjects of consideration. Observations on the various substances that have been, or may be used as food, and their comparative nutrient powers; on the quantity of food necessary to be taken daily, and the periods at which it ought to be taken : on the influ- ence of the Alimentary function on the o- ther functions of the body, when the food is not properly altered in the stomach and intestines, or is not duly expelled from them, were delivered in great detail, accompanied with many practical remarks on the disorders of the digestive function, and on the mode and degree in which they influence the other functions of the system. By the alimentary function, as we have just seen, the materials destined to nourish the body are converted into chyle, and be- come mixed with the circulating fluids. Of these fluids, a considerable portion, as we have also seen, is continually employed in forming the various excretive secretions, andMEMOIR OF 178 in different ways is rejected from the system; but a part also loses its fluid characters, and, in its office of contributing to the growth and repair of the several organs, acquires gradually the solid state. This state, how- ever, it retains only for a limited period; for, in the same gradual manner, the solids which have been thus formed, are brought to a fluid condition, and, being reassumed into the circulation, are expelled, in turn, from the system. The organs which contribute most large- ly to carry off this reabsorbed matter are the Kidneys, the functions of which Dr Gordon proceeded next to consider. He exhibited first a full detail of the chemi- cal composition and properties of the U- rine, and described the mode of its secre- tion, its quantity, and the manner in which it is conveyed from the secreting organ into the receptacle provided for it. The differ- ences which occur in its composition from substances received into the body, either by179 JOHN GORDON, M. D. the stomach or the lungs; from the influence of certain emotions of the mind, or certain morbid conditions of the body, were next enu- merated. After which, the different species of Urinary Calculi were described, the causes of their formation were investigated; and the means of prevention and cure severally dis- cussed. The mode in which the urine is accumulated in the bladder, and its subse- quent expulsion, were next delivered; and many modifications connected with sex, with age, and with other circumstances, detail- ed. From the urinary function Dr Gordon next passed to the consideration of that des- tined to ensure the continuance of the race. With this view, he first described the Struc- ture and Functions of the Organs of Repro- duction in each sex respectively; next the Con- dition of the Uterus and its appendages, both before and after Impregnation; then the Deve- lopment and growth ofthenewlyformedBeing, while yet retained in the womb; and lastly,MEMOIR OF 180 the phenomena which precede, accompany, and follow its Birth, particularly the Secre- tion of Milk. He considered afterwards the proportion of still-born to living births;— of males to females; and of twins and tri- plets to single births,—which concluded the third Division of the Course. Having thus exhibited the physiology of the Human System, and described the seve- ral functions as far as the present state of our knowledge will permit: detailing alike those functions common to both sexes, or peculiar to each, Dr Gordon allotted the fourth and last division of his Course to the consideration of those Signs of Decay in the organs by which the several functions gradu- ally and successively fail, and the whole of them are at length terminated by death. For a certain period, the powers of secre- tion and deposition exceed those of excre- tion and removal; and so long as this occurs, the several organs continue to increase orJOHN GORDON, M.D. 1S1 grow. When this period is reached, ano- ther succeeds, in which these opposite pro- cesses seem nearly balanced, and the System, for a time, remains comparatively stationary. But soon the Excretive process begins to pre- dominate, and its effects are manifested by the gradual and successive failure of different functions, not however as yet arresting those essential to vital existence. At length, these also fail, and the system may be said to sink, not so much from the over-action of the ex- cretive process, as from the diminished ope- ration of that, by which growth and repair were sustained. In prosecution of this subject, Dr Gor- don treated first of the signs of Life and Death—stating the circulation of the blood as a sign of Life, and the indications of its continuance or cessation in any part of the body:—He then delivered the distinction between Temporary and Permanent Death ; and described the decomposition of the body £MEMOIR OF 182 as a sign of permanent death. The symp- toms and progress of natural decay; the period at which it commences and termi- nates in death ; with instances in which it prematurely begins, or is unusually prolong- ed, were next given. An inquiry into the Causes of decay was then instituted : the ne- cessity of distinguishing decay from the ef- fects of disease was pointed out; and the ques- tion, whether or not the progress of decay be susceptible of modification after its com- mencement, was next discussed. The Course concluded with a view of the rate of Mortality among mankind, as ascer- tained by the investigations of Political E- conomists, and those interested in calcu- lating the contingencies of Human Life:— stating more particularly the rate of general mortality in Great Britain for the whole year, and at different seasons:—the compa- rative mortality of the two sexes;—and its rate at different periods of life, in Great Britain and other countries.183 JOHN GORDON, M.D. Such is a rapid sketch of the plan and leading features of the Course of Physiology, which Dr Gordon was accustomed to deliver. In these Lectures, each particular head or position was illustrated and supported by a detail of facts, more or less copious; from which the inferences were made with the utmost caution, and the general truths de- duced from an induction as extensive and complete as the state of our knowledge would permit. The facts themselves, were drawn from a most laborious research into writers of all times and countries;—and in the MSS. Notes of Dr Gordon, a distinct reference is made to the author, from whom each in- dividual fact was taken; so that, if brought together, these references would form a Ca- talogue Baisonne of the principal authors who have treated of all the more important points in physiological science. With these select- ed facts, the results of many original obser- vations and experiments were blended;—and the whole thus formed a body of science on q 2184. MEMOIR OF the subjects discoursed of, which has rarely been equalled either for its extent or pre- cision. In the Preface to his 4 Outlines, ’ Dr Gordon announced his intention of laying before the Public a 4 Systematic Work on Physiology, ’ in which a similar order would have been observed. And certainly, a work that should present, in a moderate compass, what is chiefly valuable in that science, arranged in aluminous order;—com- bining recent investigation with historical re- search;—distinguishing everywhere between fact and opinion, and separating that which may be deemed certain from what is merely probable;—which should give accurate refer- ence to sources of former knowledge, and supply and suggest much that was new;— should yield, on all occasions, due deference to truth, but none to mere name and autho- rity ;—unite the greatest freedom of discus- sion with the utmost respect to persons;— examine alleged facts with the severest scru-JOHN GORDON, M. D. 185 tiny, and judge opinions with the strictest impartiality;—which, in its plan, should be logical and inductive—in its composition, simple and concise;—free alike from trifling details, antiquated hypotheses and idle spe- culations, but seeking always the generaliza- tion of facts and the establishment of legiti- mate theories;—which, in a word, should ex- hibit all that was really known, and pretend not to farther knowledge—Such a work in any of the sciences, and most of all in phy- siology, could not fail to be well received by the public. How far Dr Gordon was quali- fied to execute the task may be gathered from the works he has left behind him, and the acquirements he has been shown to have possessed. That he did not live to make the attempt is matter of the sincerest regret. His published * Outlines, ’ however, of which I have thus briefly sketched the substance, bear ample testimony to the extent of his research, the comprehensiveness of his views, the soli- dity of his judgment, and the correctness of his taste.MEMOIR OF 186 I have now exhibited an account of the Literary labours of Dr Gordon, on which his reputation, as a man of science, must chief- ly rest; but it would be unjust to estimate his merits solely by the works which he ac- tually gave to the public. Of these works, only the first volume of the 4 System of Ana- tomy’ was published, although the materials for completing the whole were in great part collected, and a considerable portion actual- ly ready for the press. His 4 Outlines of 4 Physiology,’ expanded as they are in his Manuscript Lectures, show also that the ma- terials for the Systematic Work which he me- ditated on that science were already collect- ed and arranged; so that had his life been prolonged, even for a few years, both these important works would have been finished, and have added largely to the stock of use- ful science. In the same manner, his 4 En- 4 gravings of the Bones, ’ were but the first specimen of a great design which contemplat- ed the accurate delineation of all the parts and organs of the human body. The entireJOHN GORDON, M. D. 187 work, like the portion already published, would have presented many original Views ; and, in conformity with his usual practice, all the representations of parts, taken from others, would have been submitted to a strict comparison with nature. The execution of such a plan would necessarily have delayed the progress of the work; but its completion would have been hailed as a great acquisition to Natural and Medical science. If, therefore, we call to mind the extent • of research manifested in the preparation of these elaborate Works, and duly reflect on the time and labour employed, in dissection and experiment, to ascertain and verify their accuracy; and if from what, in each in- stance, has been performed, we appreciate justly the talent and skill which would have been displayed in their final execution, we cannot but estimate more highly the learning and industry of their author, and more deep- ly lament the fate which has deprived him of their full reward. Yet brief as was188 MEMOIR OF his course, his life holds forth an anima- ting example to those about to enter on the same career. They may learn from it, how great are the acquisitions which well-di- rected industry, even in a short life, is able to achieve; what public estimation and en- couragement wait upon it; and what pros- pects of honour and reward open to its view. And should they happily reach the autumn of their days, and reap the full har- vest of their toils, they will not withhold a sigh o’er the lot of him, who did not attain to the same maturity of fame, only because he untimely fell ere the summer of his life had passed.JOHN GORDON, M.D. 189 So entirely did Dr Gordon devote him- self to the studies and duties with which he was occupied, that, during the first years of his establishment in life, he declined all thought of engaging in medical practice. Such a knowledge of anatomy and physiolo- gy, as he was ambitious to possess, demand- ed an exclusive application of time and ta- lent ; and the laborious operations of practi- calanatomy and experimental research, which, at this period, claimed his attention, com- bined with the preparation and delivery of his Lectures, furnished abundant occupation, and were quite incompatible with the calls and distractions of medical practice. At his outset in life, therefore, he looked to his duties, as a public teacher, as the means both of reputation and independence, trustingMEMOIR OF 190 that success in these would furnish a suitable introduction to medical practice, when either his wishes or his interests might render it de- sirable. Accordingly, at a later period, his reputation as a man of science, joined to that worth of character and amenity of manners by which he was so peculiarly distinguished,, introduced him, during the few last years of his life, without effort or solicitation, to a considerable share of the most respectable practice. By this time, he had mastered most of the difficulties which the earlier stages of his life presented, and his duties, as a public teacher, had become comparatively easy. The prospect too of a numerous fa- mily, which depended on his personal ex- ertions, disposed him to embrace more readi- ly the opportunities of practice that now o- pened to him ; and there is little doubt but that a few years would have raised him to a higher station among his medical brethren than is usual at so early a period of life. The same cruel destiny, which arrestedJOHN GORDON, M.D. 191 him in his medical career, closed against him those honours and dignities, to which, al- most by general consent, he must at no very distant day have attained. It is pretty well understood, that many persons of great weight and authority in the patronage of the Uni- versity, looked towards him as one qualified to uphold and advance its reputation; and some of the most distinguished members of that learned Body hailed his admission among them with the most flattering anticipations. Of these, two of the most illustrious ornaments have since followed him to the tomb;—one, * full indeed of age and of honours, but regretted yet less for his varied and profound accom- plishments as a philosopher, than for his most amiable qualities as a man ;—the other, f cut off, like the friend he mourned, in the prime of his days, and the full exercise of his talents—talents which, by their force and originality, seemed fitted to accomplish great * Mr Playfair. f Dr T. Brown.192 MEMOIR OF improvements in the sciences to which they were dedicated. It was thus at the early age of Thirty-two years, after having acquired a reputation de- servedly great, and cleared the way to the highest honours and dignities of his profes- sion, that Dr Gordon was attacked by that disease, which, in the brief space of a few days, terminated his earthly career. Through his whole life he had enjoyed excellent health, subject only to those occasional de- rangements of the alimentary function, which severe literary pursuits, with their accom- panying habits, are known often to produce: but these had latterly disappeared. For two or three days previous to the 3d of June 1818, he had complained of lassitude, head- ach and general uneasiness, for which he was bled on the evening of that day. The two following days he was so much better as to make a short excursion into the coun- try: but on the 6th, the headach, with the febrile symptoms, recurred, and continuedJOHN GORDON, M. D. 193 notwithstanding the remedies employed. During the night of the 12th, he became delirious, and on the following morning was attacked with a spasmodic affection of the throat. This affection gradually ex- tended over the whole body, and returned in frequent and violent paroxysms. In ad- dition to the depleting remedies hitherto em- ployed, opiates were now administered un- der the direction of the late Dr Gregory and Dr Thomson. These abated the spasms and procured some sleep, after which he a- woke somewhat refreshed, and perfectly seri' sible. But the convulsive symptoms again recurred, and continued at intervals, until, at last, his strength was quite exhausted, and he died, without a struggle, on the eve- ning of the 14th of June. The sensation produced by this sad and unexpected event was such as rarely attends the death of persons the most dignified by character and station: and was altogether D unprecedented in that of a private indivi- RMEMOIR OF m dual, whose merit alone had raised him to the rank which he held in public estimation. His rising character in his profession, and the high reputation he enjoyed as a public teacher, had drawn towards him a consi- derable share of attention : whilst his moral worth, the sweetness of his disposition, and the attractive graces of his person and man- ners, excited a warmth of attachment in his friends, which few, in any station of life, have the happiness to enjoy. It was this combination of talent and of worth—this union of all that is amiable with all that is estimable in character, which conspired to render the death of Dr Gordon a subject of such deep and general sorrow. Doubtless too, the period of life at which it occurred, and even the suddenness of the event itself, contributed to aggravate this feeling: for the greater the exaltation of our hopes may have been, the more severely do we feel their disappointment; and misfortunes which come upon us after a long season of expec-195 JOHN GORDON, M. D. tation do not move our sensibilities with the violence of those which more suddenly over- take us. The last testimonies of respect and regard, which living worth could bestow on depart- ed excellence, were rendered to Dr Gordon in a manner the most honourable to his me- mory, and most gratifying to his surviving friends. A large portion of the genius and learning of this enlightened Metropolis, as well of the other learned professions as of that to which he belonged, honoured his obsequies by their presence—drawn thither, not to exhibit the outward formalities of sor- row, nor the cold and heartless respect which mere rank and station obtain ; but to in- dulge the finer sympathies of their nature, and ‘ pay the mournful tribute of their tears * to talents which had excited their admira- tion, and to virtues which had warmed their hearts. Among the persons who atttended this so- lemn ceremony, none bestowed on it greater R 2196 MEMOIR OF interest than the Members of the Royal Medi- cal and Physical Societies, to which belong the greater number of senior students who fre- quent this University. Of these gentlemen, some had been the friends and fellow-students of Dr Gordon; many were his pupils; and all may be ranked as associates in the sciences which he so successfully cultivated and taught. On the mournful occas^n of his death, they assembled in their respective Halls, and pass- ed ‘Resolutions’ expressive of their admi- ration of his talents, their sorrow for his loss, and their desire of testifying respect for his character by accompanying his re- mains to the grave. * Such spontaneous testimonies of regard, offered in the free and generous spirit of youthful feeling, by men just entering on the career of science and usefulness which their friend and instructor had so prematurely closed, attest, in the pu- rest and strongest manner, the estimation in which he was held as a Teacher, and the affection that was borne him as a Man. The * Appendix No. 4.JOHN GORDON, M. D. 197 Members of the Medical Society, still far- ther to perpetuate their respect, set on foot a subscription, (confined to those of their own body) to procure a Bust of their la- mented Associate to be placed in their Hall; which that excellent artist Mr Jo- seph is engaged to furnish. * The senior members of the Profession were not less alive to the merits of Dr Gor- don, and to the services which he had ren- dered to science. At a meeting of the Pcoyal College of Surgeons, ‘ Resolutions’ were passed, expressing the ‘ strong sense enter- ‘ tained by its members of the zealous and * successful exertions of their fellow mem- * Very highly to his own credit, and greatly to the sa- tisfaction of Dr Gordon’s friends, Mr Joseph has executed the Model for the Bust: And when it is considered that he had never seen Dr Gordon, nor had any subject to work from, but the excellent Miniature, of which the Engraving prefixed to this volume presents an accurate Copy, one cannot but admire the talent which has enabled him thus happily to transfer to Marble the minute proportions and delicate touches of the Pencil.198 MEMOIR OF * her, the late Dr John Gordon, in pro- ‘ moting the advancement of the science of * medicine; and deeply deploring his death, ‘ at a period when he was about to reap 4 the reward of his labours. * Nor were these sentiments of respect and regard, confined to those of his Profession who were in habits of familiar intercourse with him, and constant witnesses of his meritorious exertions. They were felt as sincerely, and expressed as warmly, by those at a distance to whom his merits were known, and who had the happiness to enjoy his friendship—by men devoted to the same sci- ences with himself, and highly distinguished in the world by their successful cultivation of them. These gentlemen will, I hope, pardon the liberty now taken in making known their sentiments respecting Dr Gor- don, and will attribute solely to my zeal for the honour of his memory, this unauthoriz- ed publication of them. In a letter addressed to Professor Thom-JOHN GORDON, M. D. 199 j son by Mr Brodie, he says, ‘ I do not know * that I was ever more shocked than by Mr ‘ Ogilvie’s Letter, in which he announced to * me poor Gordon’s death ! Had he died ‘ earlier in life, before his high character ‘ had fully developed itself: had he lived ‘ some years longer so as to have been able ‘ to complete the principal things which he ‘ himself wished, and which his friends ex- ( pected him to complete in life, we should ‘ all have sincerely lamented his loss; yet it * would have affected us in a very different * manner from that in which it has affected 4 us under present circumstances. * Mr Travers also, in a letter addressed to Professor Thomson on the same mournful occasion, observes—£ I cannot withhold from ‘ you, as the esteemed and beloved precep- 4 tor and friend of poor Gordon, my sin- * cere tribute of condolence on the loss, to ‘ his associates, if not to the world, irrepara- 4 ble, of so excellent a man, and so intelli- ‘ gent and indefatigable a cultivator of sci-200 MEMOIR OF ‘ ence. Having understood from time to ‘ time that his health was firm, as it was * when I had the privilege of his society, and ‘ having very recently heard from him, I ‘ was truly shocked at the news of his de- ‘ cease. I shall receive, with the profession £ at large, the particulars of this painful e- ‘ vent, and beg you to accept from me the ‘ assurance that his loss is considered, by all ‘ his fellow-labourers in London, as a great ‘ public calamity. For myself, I tender the ‘ unequivocal and heartfelt expression of ‘ high esteem and admiration for his charac- o ‘ ter, and real grief for the event which has ‘ deprived us of him. ’ Neither must I omit the tribute rendered to Dr Gordon’s memory by another distin- guished physiologist, in a late interesting work. In alluding to an opinion of Dr Gor- don, respecting the structure of the skin, Mr Lawrence takes occasion thus to speak : $ I < cannot omit this opportunity of paying to < my deceased friend the small but sincereJOHN GORDON, M. D. 201 4 tribute of my higli respect, and deep re- 4 gret for the loss which our science has sus- * tained in his premature death. His abi- 4 lities, acquirements, and zealous devotion 4 to science were well known. At an early age ‘ he had distinguished himself as a Teacher ‘ and a Writer, and he set the useful ex- 4 ample of appealing, in all cases, to nature, 4 and admitting no statements which he had 4 not personally verified. A brilliant and 4 useful career was just opening before him. 4 In the present state of Anatomy in this 4 kingdom, his labours and example would 4 have been singularly useful. ’ There is yet another tribute to the memory of Dr Gordon, written with so much truth and feeling, and under circumstances so im- pressive, that I persuade myself its insertion will not be unacceptable to the Reader. It is contained in a Report of the 4 Institution 4 for the Education of Deaf and Dumb Chil- 4 dren, ’ of which Dr Gordon was a zealous supporter. A general meeting of the MemMEMOIR OF 202 bers of this Institution was held in the As- sembly Rooms about the 25th of May 1818r at which the Report, exhibiting the progress of the Institution for the past year, was read. Towards its close, the Reporter took occa- sion to quote the following passages from the Article, 4 Dumb and Deaf, ’ written by Dr Gordon for the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia, to which reference has already been made. ‘ The task of education is never, perhaps, 4 more truly delightful, than when this un- * fortunate, though interesting, class of per- 4 sons are the subjects of it. They unite, in 4 general, to singular steadiness of applica- * tion, the greatest gentleness and docility; 4 and expressions of countenance, as cheer- 4 ing as they are unequivocal, continually de- 4 dare the emotions of gratitude with which 4 they receive instruction. ’—4 We see their 4 happiness increasing with their knowledge; 4 and when the sublimity of nature is first un- 4 folded to their opening minds, and we mark 4 the tear starting into their eyes, we cannotJOHN GORDON, M.D. 203 •* but participate in their noble pleasure, and 4 rejoice that such emotions can be theirs. ’ It was but a few days after this Meeting had been held, viz. the very first days of June, that Dr Gordon felt the first symptoms of that disease, which proceeded so rapidly to its fatal termination. Very soon thereafter, the Report, in a printed form, was given to the public; and in alluding to the passages quoted above—4 It is, ’ says the writer, 4 an 4 affecting recollection to those who so lately 4 listened to this 44 Report, ” that the accom- 4 plished and amiable author of these beauti- 4 ful sentences was present, and witnessed 4 the emotions of pleasure with which they 4 were heard, by a very numerous audience. 4 He was then in the vigour of health 4 and youth; rich in the affections of his 4 friends; advancing rapidly to the highest 4 eminence in his profession; and looking 4 forward, probably, to many years of virtu - 4 ous exertion, of usefulness, and of enjoy- 4 ment. He is now no more! This is notMEMOIR OF 204- ‘ the place to enlarge on those qualities, which ‘ endeared Dr Gordon to his friends in a de- ‘ gree to which it has seldom been the lot of * mortality to attain. Yet it may be permit- ‘ ted to those, who have so long been asso- ‘ dated with him in the management of this ‘ interesting Institution, to avail themselves 4 of this opportunity of offering a humble, 4 but sincere tribute to the memory of those 4 talents and virtues which had already rais- 4 ed their possessor to so high a rank among 4 his fellow-citizens ; and which, had itpleas- 4 ed Providence to prolong his useful life, 4 would have numbered him among the 4 brightest ornaments of his country. ’ * * This Report, which was put into my hands by my friend Dr Maclagan, only while these sheets were passing through the press, was drawn up, I have since learned, by the late Mr Hay Donaldson, Writer to the Signet, who, but a few weeks ago, was prematurely snatched from his friends and society by the hand of death. He was a gentle- man not more distinguished for his eminent professional ta- lents, than for the active benevolence of his nature; and was greatly endeared to a large circle of friends by the suavity of his manners, the warmth of his affections, and the purity and integrity of his life.JOHN GORDON, M. D. 205 It now only remains for me to attempt the delineation of a few of the more prominent features in the person and character of Dr Gordon which attracted such general admi- ration, and endeared him so much to his friends. In stature he was of the middle size, and of a frame slender, but elegantly form- ed. His person was very handsome and at- tractive, displaying a countenance at once a- nimated and expressive, a complexion fair and sanguine, with a nose slightly aquiline, light hair, and fine blue eyes beaming with intelligence, and full of gentleness and be- nignity. No one could look upon him with- out pleasure, nor without the desire of seek- ing his farther acquaintance. There was a pensive softness, blended with a kindly ex- pression of feeling in his features, which ex- cited peculiar interest; and a look of intelli- gence which always commanded respect. To adopt the beautiful language of an accomplished writer, whose intimate know- edge of Dr Gordon might be received as a s206 MEMOIR OF pledge for the accuracy at least of his de- lineation—‘ The distinguishing trait in his Manners,—or rather in his Character, of which his manners were at all times but the index and exponent—was to be found, perhaps, in a certain graceful frankness and gay sincerity of spirit, which at once ba- nished all idea either of pretension or dis- guise—and, having its root in the manly can- dour and firmness of his nature, was so tem- pered by the social sweetness of his disposi- tions, as to win at once on the confidence of the intelligent, and never to wound, for a moment, the self-esteem even of the most ir- ritable. There never was a man from whom his friends were so sure to hear the truth— and to hear it, even when unpleasant, with the least possible pain, and without the small- est admixture of offence or provocation. His whole character, indeed, bore upon it the distinct impression of singular simplicity and purity; and was felt, by all who approached him, to be altogether without artifice, with- out littleness, without irritability—and even ithout the pride which might well have w207 JOHN GORDON, M.D. been excited by the consciousness of so many excellences: For there was about him, il we may so express ourselves, so much of a cheerful facility, and native ease ana anima- tion, as at once to invite to familiarity, and make familiarity a delight—a certain bright transparency of soul that disclosed all its vir- tues, not only without ostentation, but with- out consciousness of their value—and a fresh buoyancy of spirits which dispelled all the elements of distrust, and kept his heart con- stantly open to a kind and ready sympathy with all sorts of innocent enjoyment. ‘ Though constitutionally an enthusiast in the pursuit and admiration of every kind of excellence, the gaiety of his temper and the clearness of his judgment saved him at all times from the hazard of forming exaggerat- ed opinions, either as to the importance of his own pursuits, or the merit of his exertions. His habitual course of thought, indeed, point- ed strongly in an opposite direction; and, while no topic was more familiar to him than the s 2MEMOIR OP 208 ignorance and indifference of one half of the world as to what occupies and agitates the other, his intimate friends can never forget the pleasant and natural playfulness with which he used to illustrate this position, from the history of his own, and their habits and occupations: And, ardent and indefatigable as he was in the cultivation of the sciences to which his life was devoted, it was easy to see that he valued still more highly the mo- ral gifts or discipline by which life is made lovely; and never forgot how poor a thing is learning, or fame itself, in comparison of kind affections and social happiness. Of that hap- piness no man ever contributed or enjoyed a larger share. The cheerfulness of his na- ture—the equal and happy balance of all the powers of his understanding—the large range and variety of his accomplishments, and the sweet pliability of his spirits, fitted him, in an eminent degree, for all the pleasures of society ; and, while he reserved his love and confidence for the generous and intelligent, who formed the inner circle of his friends.209 JOHN GORDON, M. D. he had the utmost indulgence for all ordi- nary defects and infirmities, and lived easily and kindly with the whole range of his ac- quaintances.’ Hence it was, that in general so- ciety, he met always with a gracious and cor- dial acceptance; and in the more private in- tercourse of life was honoured with the friend- ship, not only of our most eminent men of science, but of many of the most accomplish- ed individuals, who shed such a living lustre on the reputation of the Scottish Bar. And hence too it is, that no man has left behind him a name which more often recurs to the remembrance, or is more tenderly cherished by his friends. Closely allied to that social and benevolent frame of mind, which so eminently distin- guished Dr Gordon in his intercourse with his fellow-men, was the sympathy he felt with whatever, in Nature, was beautiful, grand, or sublime. In the eloquent and expres- sive language of one who has often wit- nessed and shared his raptures—c If ever there was a being who had a sympathy withMEMOIR 0E 210 nature, it was he. It was an honest, simple, genuine perception and enjoyment of all her beauties, and of all her grandeur; and of all human occupations connected with her. How have I heard him sing amidst the primroses and bursting larches on Tweed- side ! How he lingered, on our walk to Dal- whinnie, to gaze on the solitude of Loch Garry ! And how he seemed to expand on the noble banks of his native Findhorn ! If this were a mere little personal peculiarity, it would not be worth noticing. But there is a great alliance between genius and a taste for nature; and there is a satisfaction in associating the recollection of departed worth with those material objects which either never decay, or are every year pre- sented to us in fresher renovation. ’ With feelings thus alive to all the finer emotions of our nature, it was the great feli- city of this excellent person to combine the highest principles of honour, and the most manly firmness of character. To a proper deference for the sentiments of others, he211 JOHN GORDON, M. D. joined always a becoming respect for his own : and, in every action of his life, he held the advancement of his fortune in just sub- ordination to the purest dictates of conscience and truth. The reputation which he so early acquired, was gained by no unworthy arts or pretensions—no mean or selfish compliances —no compromises of principle or of honour. It was the homage spontaneously rendered to eminent talents, steadily and successfully directed to useful and honourable ends, and recommended and adorned by the most en- gaging vmanners, and an undeviating pro- priety of conduct. In the more private and retired scenes of life, he constantly exhibited those qualities of heart and of temper, which gain irresis- tibly on the affections, and hold them in willing bondage. His dispositions were frank, generous, and gentle; his sentiments liber- al and candid; his affections warm and sin- cere. His temper was always cheerful, and he often delighted his friends by the ease and playfulness of his humour, and by a happyMEMOIR OF 212 turn for imitation, in which he now and then sportively indulged. Possessing, too, a voice rich and harmonious, a fine ear, and great sensibility, he was enabled to chaunt, occa- sionally, the melodies of his native mountains with sweet and expressive power. Of his character in all the relations of domestic life, it is enough to say, that the virtues and graces, which procured him such general estimation abroad, were still farther softened and refined by the endearments and delights of home: and that, as the cords of wedded love were never more closely drawn than in his union, so were they never sundered with greater pain than by his untimely death. As a Teacher of Anatomy, the reputation of Dr Gordon stood deservedly high. He possessed a neatness and dexterity of hand, which peculiarly qualified him for anatomi- cal investigations, and a patience and perse- verance in pursuit not easily to be tired out, or subdued by difficulties. During the win- ter Session, he laboured incessantly in pre- paring the objects to be demonstrated in his213 JOHN GORDON, M. D. Lectures ; and, by his manner of exhibiting and describing them, removed much of the disgust liable to be excited by attendance on an anatomical Course. Without the smallest approach to unnecessary refinement, or af- fectation of seeming delicacy, he contrived to exhibit parts with such attention to neat- ness and propriety, and delivered his demon- strations in a manner so clear and interest- ing, as to render his Lectures not only in- structive, but amusing. Of the many great anatomists we have had, few have possessed, in any very eminent degree, the talent for anatomical demonstration. This talent, so greatly admired in Dr Monro primus, and in Dr William Hunter, was possessed by Dr Gordon in a distinguishing degree, as will be acknowledged by all who have enjoyed the advantage of attending his Lectures. As a Lecturer on Physiology, a wider field was opened for the display of his quali- fications ; and the reputation he acquired af- fords the best evidence of his success. With clear conceptions of his subject, and just andMEMOIR OF 214 comprehensive views, he expressed himself in language so simple and precise, and with so much ease and grace, as to secure always the fixed attention of his audience, and not unfrequently suspend them in silent admira- tion. His elocution was uncommonly dis- tinct and pleasing, possessing even a degree of musical harmony; and the elegance of manner, which he uniformly displayed, was not the result of study or of art, but the happy effort of good taste improving on the free gifts of nature. Deeply impressed with the importance of the science he had under- taken to teach, and ardent in the study and improvement of it, he was anxious to com- municate to his hearers, not the knowledge only which he possessed, but a portion of that real love for the science with which he was himself animated. His pupils came therefore to his class, not with the desire simply of being taught, but the expectation of being gratified—not merely to perform certain stated duties, and pass an hour in listless indifference, or perhaps settled dis-JOHN GORDON, M. D. 215 gust, but to acquire knowledge in a manner the most inviting, and bear away with them a love for the studies in which they had been so agreeably occupied. These high accomplishments as a teacher were aided and enforced by that principle of method and order, which pervaded all his pursuits, and regulated all the habits of his life. His duties were always so well con- sidered, and the times and modes of execut- ing them so correctly arranged, and so punc- tually adhered to, that he was enabled to get through his various occupations without any appearance of hurry or difficulty; or without encroaching on the time allotted to the enjoy- ment of society with his friends. He never needed the aid of any adventitious arts to se- cure the attention of his audience; nor was he ever seduced, by his capacity for animated eloquence, to depart from the chaste and di- dactic style which his good taste prescribed. His Anatomical Lectures were delivered from short notes, indicating merely the leading heads of the subject, and the order to be ob-216 MEMOIR OF served in treating it. His physiological Course was given from more copious notes. These, however, were written in so free a style, and delivered in a manner so easy and agreeable, as to impart to them nearly all the freshness and interest of extemporary com- position. His delivery, on all occasions, was removed, as far as possible, from that dull, mechanical method, into which many teach- ers are so apt to fall—in whom, the organs of speech seem to act more from habit than from thought, and the tones of the voice in- vite less to attention than repose. With Dr Gordon, on the contrary, the constant infusion of thought and feeling bestowed on his facts a lively interest, and impressed on his reasonings a new and original glow. Even the information obtained from foreign sources, seemed often with him to pass through a process of assimilation, and ac- quire the charm of novelty, either from the different aspect under which it was surveyed, or the new views it was employed to suggest. He was much in the practice of referring to217 JOHN GORDON, M.D. the sources whence he had drawn his infor- formation, as well to give authority to his statements, as from an honest desire to do justice to his predecessors and contemporaries, and assist to the utmost the future studies of his pupils. These endeavours and exertions were duly appreciated by them, and repaid in the way most gratifying to him—by their punctual attendance, and uniformly respect- ful and decorous conduct. Young as he was in reality, and younger still as he seemed in appearance, there was an interest excited by his presence, which, from his first effort as a public Teacher, arrested and held fast the attention of his pupils; whilst an uniform display of talent, a conscientious solicitude to instruct, a manner dignified yet simple, and conduct unaffectedly friendly and kind, won their admiration and esteem. Of this, many testimonies exist among his papers, some ti ansmitted to him during his life, and others sent to his friends since his lamented death. I shall venture to introduce one or two of T218 MEMOIR OF these testimonies, as illustrative of the re- marks I have made. They display the o- pinion entertained of Dr Gordon, as a Teach- er, by those not certainly the most learned in the subjects discoursed of, but whose minds were the least preoccupied, whose interests were the most concerned, and whose judg- ments, therefore, may, at least, be deemed sincere. The first I shall give, is a letter addressed to Dr Gordon in April 1813, af- ter the conclusion of his Winter course. It wTas written by a gentlenan who chose to con- ceal his name, and is still unknown; but whose knowledge and: discrimination evi- dently qualified him to appreciate the merits of his instructor. ‘ Sir—I must indulge myself in thanking ( you for the excellent course of Lectures 1 lately concluded. Had any occasion of- ‘ fered of doing so personally, I should have i failed in an attempt to express my senti- ‘ ments, and therefore am better satisfied with the method I now take, though I am219 JOHN GORDON, M.D. aware you will be apt to smile at it as a specimen of self-conceit. It would indeed be a sort of impertinence in the Learner to compliment the Teacher on his extensive reading, industrious research, or correct opinions; for these he cannot be supposed to estimate. If he is inclined to infer, from the ready and unostentatious reference to authors and experiments, that a large ac- quaintance has been formed with both; and from a manner of reasoning, which appear- ed sound and candid, that no error has been advanced, he may more properly ex- patiate on this to those who are seeking the same sort of knowledge. * But there are points on which the pupil is more competent to judge. One cannot mistake or fail to perceive the intention and wish of teachingand, in order to that end, the economy of time by selection of topics; the successful aim at distinctness; and the uniformity of these exertions. All who have paid even as imperfect attention t 2220 MEMOIR OF e as myself, must understand and value 4 them. £ And perhaps none of the characteristics, which I have glanced at, would have induc- ed mg to address you, had it not been for ‘ others which, I believe, are still more rare. 1 I confess I have been more gratified by the ‘ correct, appropriate, and simple style which ‘ you have formed,—to which you do justice ‘ besides in the utterance; but most of all, 4 by that real dignity which you never com- 4 promise, either by affectation or by levity. 4 It is pleasing to observe, how entirely this * commands the respect of your audience. * You will also have to calculate, with last- 4 ing satisfaction, on the moral influence of 4 lectures, which are lessons of genuine and 4 manly refinement, and contribute support 4 to those religious principles which exalt us. 4 Such an influence, applied, as it is by you, 4 in the most judicious manner and measure, 4 and when weighed, not only by itself, but 4 against its pernicious contrary, will be 4 found of high value.221 JOHN GORDON, M.D. 4 I have ventured quite far enough with these remarks. Allow me to conclude with the hope, that, whatever alteration of materials and arrangement may be found expedient, you will not alter the spirit and manner of your lectures. I can offer no better wish, than that these may be quite unchanged, if, at some distant period of your useful labours, I should again have the pleasure to be a hearer. 4 I think you will perceive that I do not write insincerely, but I should have writ- ten, probably, with less freedom, and the motive would be more dubious, were I to add my name to this letter. I therefore remain, Sir, with a full share of that re- spect and regard, which, I believe, are felt more or less by all— 4 One of your Class. 4 Edinburgh, 4 April, 1813.’ That the respect and regard, thus render-222 MEMOIR OF eel by an individual, were shared in common by his fellow-pupils, we have a pleasing testi- mony in the fact, that a short time before the close of the Course, a meeting of the Class was called to consider of some appro- priate means of testifying their approbation of Dr Gordon’s zeal and ability as a teacher. A knowledge of the intended object of this meeting reached Dr Gordon, and, though highly flattered by such a spontaneous mark of regard from those whose approbation he was most anxious to obtain, he yet felt, that, in the relative situation of the parties, it was a subject of considerable delicacy, and might be exposed to much misconstruction. Dis- daining, as he did, all unworthy means of advancing his fortune, and fearful lest even a suspicion of such conduct might attach a- gainst him, he conveyed to one of the gentle- men concerned, his wish that the proposed object of the meeting should, for the present, be relinquished. As the time and place of the meeting had, however, been previouslyJOHN GORDON, M, D. 223 fixed, it was held accordingly, and the * Re- solutions ’ adopted were transmitted to Dr Gordon by the gentleman* who presided on the occasion. These Resolutions expressed in substance the high respect of the class for Dr Gordon’s talents, and the desire of its members to have testified their approbation of his labours, by presenting him with a piece of plate; which design they relinquished only in deference to his private sentiments. On the following day, Dr Gordon, in reference to these Reso- lutions, addressed his class from a written paper, in the following terms :— ‘ Gentlemen, £ My feelings will not permit me to ‘ enter on the proper business of this meet- ‘ ing, until I have returned you my very ‘ sincerest thanks for the communication ‘ which I last night received from you, * through a highly respectable member of ‘ your body. * Mr P. Sandberg.224 MEMOTR OE ‘ How gratifying this communication has 1 been to me, I will not attempt to express; 4 nor can you conceive the pleasure it has 4 given me, unless you had already been ‘ placed in circumstances like mine. When 4 you have entered on the active duties of 4 your profession:—when your all depends 4 on your own exertions:—when the first 4 and dearest object of your ambition is the 4 approbation of good men :—and when you 4 shall at last have actually enjoyed a share 4 of that approbation—then, and then only, 4 will you have experienced in yourselves 4 those feelings of satisfaction which you now 4 so kindly bestow upon me. I know not 4 that I can wish you any greater blessing 4 under Heaven, than that such should soon 4 be your objects, and such your early re- 4 ward. 4 While I express my gratitude, Gentle- 4 men, for the flattering opinion you have 4 been pleased to entertain of my humble la- 4 bours, I must, at the same time, returnJOHN GORDON, M. D. 225 4 you thanks for the very agreeable manner 4 in which that opinion has been conveyed, 4 and for the very delicate regard you have 4 shown to my private sentiments, in relin- 4 quishing your original intentions, with re- 4 spect to me, on this occasion. I am aware 4 that you cannot, perhaps, perceive those 4 views which have prevailed with me on this 4 subject; but it would not become me to 4 state them publicly. As it is, you have 4 presented me with a gift, the most accept- 4 able, in a manner the most delicate and 4 agreeable. I am proud to possess it; and, 4 be assured, it shall be most sacredly pre- 4 served. * On this simple and touching communica- tion, I shall not venture to remark; but there is one letter more, addressed to Dr Thomson, soon after Dr Gordon’s death, from which I cannot deny myself the satis- faction of making a short extract. It was written by Dr George Barclay, a young226 MEMOIR OF physician of Aberdeen, in which city he had settled with the fairest hopes and the most flattering prospects of success. It derives a melancholy interest from the fact, that its amiable and accomplished author, like the friend and preceptor whom he so patheti- cally mourns, has himself since fallen a vic- tim to Typhus fever, acquired in the anxious exercise of his professional duties. ‘ My Dear Sir, ‘ It is with unfeigned sorrow that I * sympathize with you upon the loss of our * excellent friend Dr Gordon. I did not 1 hear of his illness until I received an ac- ‘ count of its fatal termination; and I need £ not say how I was shocked by the melan- ‘ choly intelligence. Genius and applica- ‘ tion were so well mingled in the constitu- ‘ tion of his mind, that, with regard to the * provinces of science to which he attached ‘ himself, expectation was almost unlimited; * and his milder virtues can never be thoughtJOHN GORDON, M. D. 227 < of by those who had the pleasure of his ac- ‘ quaintance, but with a melancholy admi- ‘ ration. For my own part, I always placed * him before my eyes as a spotless example ‘ for my imitation, and really felt as if I had ‘ been deprived of a father, when I heard of * his death. I know, my dear Sir, how your ‘ heart must ache in speaking or thinking up- * on this melancholy subject: but I hope ‘ you will excuse a grateful pupil for thus c expressing his sorrow at the loss of so ex- * cellent a preceptor. ’ If such sincere attachment to Dr Gordon, and such deep sorrow for his loss, were felt and expressed by those whose acquaintance with him was casual and of short duration,— what must have been the feelings of others, connected with him by friendships of longer continuance, or by still nearer and more en- dearing ties ! These I shall not attempt to describe; for language does but poorly ex- press our sorrowful emotions, and throbs ofMEMOIR, &C. 228 sadness find but an imperfect utterance in words. There is, however, a redeeming grace in virtuous sorrow, which lightens the gloom of affliction, and disposes the mind to accept, with thankfulness, the hopes and con- solations which religion and reason supply. And as time removes, to a greater distance, the events which troubled the soul, we look back upon them with less and less emotion, ’till at length they become so softened to our view as no longer to agitate our feelings, but awaken only that hallowed remembrance, which sweetly stirs the affections, and puri- fies and exalts the heart. APPENDIX.appendix. APPENDIX NO. I. The Committee of the French Institute, ap- pointed to report on the Anatomical labours of MM. Gall and Spurzheim, consisted of MM. Tenon, Portal, Sabatier, Pinel, and Cuvier. Their Report was presented to the Institute, A- pril 15th, 1808, and adopted by the Class. It was translated and published in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for January 1809. Its Conclusions are expressed in the following terms. “ 1. Finally, it appears to us,”say the Commit- tee, “ thatDrs Gall and Spurzheim have the merit, not of having discovered, but of having recalled to the attention of Physiologists, the continuity of the fibres which extend from the Medulla Ob- longata into the hemispheres and into the cere-2 APPENDIX. bellura, which Vieussens first detailed ; and also the decussation of the filaments of the pyramidal eminences described by Mistichelli, by Francis Petit, and by Santorini, but with regard to which some doubt had been entertained. “ 2. That they are the first who have distin- guished two orders of fibres, of which the me- dullary matter of the hemispheres appears to be composed:—the one of which diverges from the peduncle, while the other converges towards the commissures. “ 3. That, by uniting their observations with those of their predecessors, they have made it very probable, that the nerves called Cerebral ascend from the Medulla Oblongata, and do not descend from the brain; and that, in general, they have very much weakened, not to say over- turned, the system which makes all the nerves come originally from the brain. ”APPENDIX. 3 APPENDIX, NO. II. Brief Summary of Professor Reil’s Labours on the Structure of the Brain and Nerves. The first results of Reil’s labours were pub- lished in Gren’s new Journal of Physics for 1795 (Neues Journal der Physik, Erst. Band. 8vo, Leipsig, 1795), and his subsequent disco- veries, says Dr Gordon, form the subjects of no fewer than ten separate Dissertations, which will be found in the volumes, from 1807 to 1812 in- clusive, of the periodical work entitled Archives of Physiology (Archiv fur die Physiologie) edited by himself and Authenrieth at Halle. In 1795, appeared, in Gren’s Journal, Reil’s first Memoir on the Structure of the Brain and Nerves, exhibiting a general view of the singular arrangement of parts he had discovered in those organs, and which his subsequent investigations enabled him to trace more minutely, and ahiply to confirm. In 1796, appeared his well known work on the Nerves, entitled Exercitatio Anatomicade Struc- tura Nervorum, fol. Halte 1796. In this work,appendix. 4 by his ingenious application of Chemical Men- strua, he succeeded in disclosing circumstances respecting the nervous fibrils themselves, as well as the sheaths containing them, which had elud- ed the observation of all former anatomists. After the publication of this work, he re- sumed his investigations into the structure of the brain; and in 1807, published, in his Archives of Physiology, an Essay on the. Cerebellum, exhibiting very minute descriptions of that por- tion of the brain viewed externally, and illus- trated by engravings. This Essay was followed by another in the same volume, describing the manner in which the strata come off from the different parts of the Cerebellum, and the general fibrous Struc- ture of that organ. Also, in the same volume is a very interesting paper, in which the minute fibrous structure of the lobes, lobules, and dif- ferent orders of strata are described and illus- trated by excellent engravings. In 1809 he finished his description of the Cere- bellum, by a few observations contained in a short essay in the volume of Archives for that year. In the same volume (1809) he published aAPPENDIX. 5 long essay on the minute structure of the Cere- brum or Brain-Proper. This essay commences with some observations on the method of prepar- ing and dissecting the parts, which he had fol- lowed with success; and he here pronounces the method of investigation, adopted by Gall, to be inadequate. Then follows a complete descrip- tion of the apparent fibres of the Cerebrum, which does not at all correspond with that given by Gall. In the same year, appeared an additional paper on the Structure of the Medulla Oblongata, and the parts situated behind the Pons Varolii. Lastly, in 1812 appeared three additional papers—theJirst on the Anterior Commissure of the Brain-proper—the second on the Septum Lu- cidum and its Ventricle, on the Fornix, and on the Lateral Ventricles—and the third contained some additional observations on the Structure of parti- cular parts both of the Cerebrum and Cerebel- lum.6 appendix. appendix, no. hi. A Classification of Excretive Secretions—founded on Anatomical Characters, from Dr Gordons Outlines of Physiology, page 67. 1* Those Secretions in which the Excreted Sub- stances are poured out through a Tube or Tubes, formed like a Vein by the union of lesser tubes within the substance of the Organ. Ex. The Lachrymal Gland; the Parotid, Submaxillary, and Sublingual Glands ; the Liver ; the Pancreas ; the Kidneys ; the Testes; 'the Prostate Gland ; Cowper’s Glands ; and the Mamma. 2. Those in which the Excreted Substances escape by Pores of various sizes, the communi- cations ‘of which, within the Organ, are not known. Ex. The Skin ; the Meibomian Glands, and Caruncula Lachrymalis; the Ceruminous Glands; the Labial, Buccal, Lingual, Palatine, Laryngeal, and Pharyngeal Glands ; the Tonsils ; and the Glands of the Alimentary Canal. 3. Those in which the Excreted substances cannot be perceived to escape either through Tubes or Pores. Ex. Serous Membranes;7 APPENDIX. Synovial Membranes; Membranes of Internal Canals and Passages ; Arachnoid Membrane; Surface of the Ventricles of the Brain ; Parts secreting the Humours of the Eye ; Parts se- creting the Fluids of the Labyrinth ; the Air- cells of the Lungs; the Thymus Gland ; the Renal Capsules; and the Ovarian Vesicles. APPENDIX, NO. IV. Proceedings of the Royal Medical and Physical Societies of Edinburgh, on the occasion of Dr Gordons death. Ax an Extraordinary Meeting of the Medical Society, held Tuesday the 16th June 1818, it was moved— “ That the Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh, contemplating the heavy loss which the Medical world in general, and the School of Edinburgh in particular, have sustained in the death of Dr Gordon, their late distinguished As- sociate, and anxious to demonstrate its highAPPENDIX. 8 sense of his zeal and success in the prosecution of those important branches of Medical Science to which his talents were especially directed, do record, in its Minutes, this memorial of the deep and sincere regret in which its Members unanimously sympathize. “ That the Society, participating in the general gloom, which this mournful event has occasioned, do request permission, as a testimony of re- spect to the exalted character of the late Dr Gordon, to attend his remains to the grave. “ That a letter to this effect be addressed to the Relatives of Dr Gordon, in the name of the Society, equally expressive of its condolence, and of its gratitude for the many and substanti- al benefits, which it has received from him dur- ing his short but brilliant career. “ That Dr Beilby be appointed to transmit, in a letter to the Relatives of Dr Gordon, the Re- solutions of this evening. ”APPENDIX. 9 At an Extraordinary Meeting of the Royal Physical Society held on the 17th June ISIS, it was moved— “ That the Royal Physical Society deep- ly lament the great public and private loss, sus- tained by the death of Dr John Gordon, Lec- turer on Anatomy and Physiology, and Honor- ary Member of the Society, in the prime of life and fulness of utility. “ That the services, which, at so early a period of life, Dr Gordon had already rendered to the science of medicine; the vigorous talent and un- wearied zeal which, as a public teacher, mark- ed every step of his short but brilliant career ; joined with the urbanity of his mannners and the kindness of his disposition, must ever cause his memory to be most highly and justly re- spected. “ That, impressed by these considerations, the Royal Physical Society offer their sincere tribute of sympathy to the family and friends of Dr Gordon; and, as a mark of their respect, re-APPENDIX. 10 quest permission to attend the funeral of so dis- tinguished and lamented a member of the So- ciety. “ That Dr Maclagan be deputed to arrange, with the Relatives of Dr Gordon, in what manner the Society shall attend the funeral, most agree- able to the feelings of the family. ” APPENDIX, NO. V, List of Works Published by Dr Gordon. 1. A System of Human Anatomy. 8vo.. vol. I. Edin. 1815. 2. Observations on the Structure of the Brain, comprising an Estimate of the Claims of Drs Gall and Spurzheim, to Discovery in the Ana- tomy of that Organ. 8vo. Edin. 1817. 3. Outlines of Lectures on Human Physio- logy. 8vo. Edin. 1817. 4. Engravings of the Skeleton of the Hu- man Body. 8vo. Edin. 1818.II