INTRODUCTORY LECTURES TO A COURSE OF ANATOMY, DELIVERED BY THE LATE JOHN BARCLAY, M.D. F.RS.E. FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, AND HONORARY FELLOW OF THE RO\ AL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH, FELLOW OF THE LINNEAN SOCIETY, AND OF THE WERNERIAN NATURAL HISTORY SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH, &C. &C. WITH A MEMOIR OF THE LIFE OF THE AUTHOR, By GEORGE BALLINGALL, M.D. REGIUS PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. EDINBURGH : MACLACHLAN AND STEWART, EDINBURGH ; AND BALDWIN, CRADOCK, AND JOY, LONDON. M.DCCC.XXVII.• . l i M k or t . ( • ? - -:.V . ,V I " . ' • « .V >? -s . v. . i :r ' r • ? y ' 'r - - * r V4‘ i'' • lv * ' • ’• - • C* v ■ • 1J lil T PRINTED liY JAMES CLARKE AND CO. OLD STAMP OFFICE. fl14.g,0'2.TO JOHN DICKSON, ESQ. SURGEON IN THE ROYAL NAVY, &c. TO ROBERT NASMYTH, ESQ. FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH J AND TO THOSE GENTLEMEN WHO SUCCEEDED HIM AS ASSISTANTS TO DR. BARCLAY. Gentlemen, The duty of editing the Introductory Lectures of our lamented Master having devolved upon me, I can think of no Body of Men to whom these Lectures can he inscribed with greater propriety than to you, who preceded, and who followed me, as assistants to Dr. Barclay in the labours of his Class,—to you, whose professional prosperity was to him a source of constant and anxious solicitude,—to you, whose eminence in different branches of the profession was to him a* 3 1' • • > V. IV source of honest exultation. “ When you wish me”' said he, “ that kind of reward arising from the number, the respectability, and the usefulness of my pupils, you wish me, indeed, a kind of reward of which I feel that my heart would be proud” To you, then, Gentlemen, I beg leave to dedicate this • volume, with every sentiment of respect and esteem. i I have the honour to be, GENTLEMEN, Your most obedient servant, GEO. BALLINGALL. College of Edinburgh, 1th November, 1827.ADVERTISEMENT. The greater part of the following Lectures was printed previous to Dr. Barclay’s death, and his executors having, in fulfilment of the i Doctor’s obvious intention, determined to complete the Work, it is now offered to the Public as containing a valuable abridgment of the History of Anatomy, and as likely to prove acceptable to numerous Members of the Medical Profession, who feel a pride in being ranked amongst Dr. Barclay’s pupils. Dr. Ballingall having been requested to superintend the Publication, and to furnish a Memoir of the Life of his distinguished Friend, has had great pleasure in complying with the wishes of the Executors. He begs I to offer his acknowledgments to several of Dr. Barclay’s friends, and particularly to the Ivi Reverend Mr. Burgh of Trinity Gask, from whom much of the information embodied in the following Memoir has been obtained. This Memoir Dr. Ballingall commits to the press, in the fullest confidence that he will expeiience the indulgence of his Profession and of the Public, when engaged in a species of writing so foreign to his usual pursuits. Queek Street, Edinburgh, 1th November, 1827-CONTENTS LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY . 1CTURE I. . II. Ill 1 IV V.I Page I 1 29 61 99 V. Introductory to a Course of Comparative Anatomy 137ERRATUM. Page xviii. line 8—for “ his speech became much read, “ his speech latterly became much impaired.”THE LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. The subject of the following Biographical Sketch, affords one of those numerous instances so credit- able to our country, in which an individual, inherit- ing nothing from his parents except a sound con- stitution, a vigorous mind, and a virtuous educa- tion, has subsequently risen, by his own exertions, to such a degree of eminence in science, as to render the particulars of his life interesting to his surviving friends, and useful as an example to posterity. Dr. Barclay was born in the year 1759 or I76O, at the farm of Cairn near Drummaquhance in Perth- shire, and at a very early age was removed to Strageath, a farm on the property of Lord Gwydir, in the same county, which is still occupied by his sister and her husband, Mr. M‘Crosty. While residing here, he received the rudiments of his bLIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. II education at the parish school of Muthil, under Mr. Thomson, who had the reputation of being an ex- cellent Latin scholar, and to whom we have accidentally seen a copy of the Doctor’s Thesis ad- dressed in grateful and affectionate terms. In November 1776, Dr. Barclay was entered as a student at the Old College of St. Andrew’s, having gained by competition what is termed a Founda- tion Bursary, and having been placed at the head of the list of four successful candidates. Here he gave early proofs of an acute and inquiring mind, was greatly distinguished in the Greek class un- der Professor Hill, and made himself speedily master of Euclid’s Elements and of the Conic Sections. At St. Andrew’s he passed altogether five sessions, and, while prosecuting his theologi- cal studies at the New or St. Mary’s College, he acquired, without the aid of any teacher, such a knowledge of the Hebrew language as enabled him to read and understand the whole of the He- brew Bible, which he did before he became a preacher. About this period he wrote for his own instruction, or perhaps with some view to publi- cation, what he termed a History of all Religions j and this is said, by a very competent judge, to have been full of interesting information; but as no trace of such a work was found amongst his pa- pers, it is probable that he had abandoned any idea of giving it to the world, and had destroyed the manuscript.LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. Ill At College the Doctor was already distinguish- ed by that peculiar ardour which he subsequent- ly displayed in the pursuit of every literary ob- ject which engaged his attention. Here also he was distinguished by that habitual good hu- mour and love of anecdote, which, to his latest hours, never forsook him ; and here he was re- markable for that warm attachment to his early acquaintances, which was for the most part mutual, and which laid the foundation of many of those enduring friendships from which he enjoyed so much comfort and happiness in after life. The writer of this memoir was a witness to, and is tempted to record, an instance of the Doctor’s warmth of heart and grateful recollection of past services, which originated in an act of humanity and kindness shown to him while a student at St. Andrew’s. Having set out upon a visit to his re- lations in Perthshire, during the Christmas holi- days, he was benighted and overtaken by a storm at the small village of Lindores, near Newburgh, in Fife. Here he sought shelter in the house of a poor man of the name of Wilson, who, with his wife, received our traveller at first with some de- gree of suspicion ; but being overcome with his frankness and affability, soon became more kindly disposed, and treated him with all the hospitality which their little cottage afforded. The writer had the pleasure, at the distance of nearly thirty 62IV LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. years afterwards, of accompanying the Doctor in search of his benefactors, and of witnessing the very gratifying recognition on both sides; the Doc- tor giving them substantial proofs of his recollec- tion of their kindness. Having finished his course of study at the Uni- versity, Dr. Barclay was licensed as a preacher of the Gospel, by the Presbytery of Dunkeld, and was for some time employed as tutor in the fa- mily of Charles Campbell, Esq. of Loch Dochart. Here he prosecuted, at his leisure hours, the study of natural history, and made some interesting ob- servations upon insects. He afterwards entered into the family of the late Sir James Campbell of Aberuchill; and, at the commencement of the win- ter session 1789, he proceeded with his pupils, Mr. William, and Mr. Frederick Campbell, to Edinburgh. Soon after this he began to give his attention to the study of Medicine, and particularly to Anatomy, both human and comparative, continuing, at the same time, to give assistance, in the way of his ori- ginal profession, to some of his friends amongst the clergy of Edinburgh and its neighbourhood. He preached occasionally for the late Dr. Hardy, and for Mr. Grant of Libberton, who had been his class-fellow at St. Andrew’s, and with whom he continued in habits of intimacy up to the pe- riod of his death. The study of physic, however, and particularly the many interesting subjects of anatomical research, so well suited to Dr. Bar-V LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. clay’s inquiring and indefatigable mind, began gradually to absorb his whole attention, and he now became assistant to the late Mr. John Bell, with whom, and with his brother Mr. Charles Bell, he continued for some time to prosecute his studies. In 1796 Dr. Barclay obtained his degree from the University of Edinburgh, after having defend- ed an inaugural dissertation De Anima, sen Prin- ciple) F'itali. This Essay was dedicated to the late Dr. Gregory, and to Mr. John Bell, the former of whom expressed himself, regarding its execution and latinity, in terms highly gratifying to the Author. The subject was one which seems very early to have engaged his attention; and his last work on Life and Organization, in which his views are more fully developed, affords a proof of ni the continued assiduity with which Dr. Barclay ^ prosecuted his inquiries into this interesting field of research. Immediately after his graduation, having deter- L! mined (we believe somewhat suddenly,) to come * forward as a teacher of Anatomy, he repaired to i London, and studied for some time under the late I Dr* Marshall of Theaves Inn, at that time a very distinguished teacher of Anatomy in the metropo- lis, and of whom we have often heard the Doctor speak in terms of great respect and affection. Here Dr. Barclay furnished himself with some l>3VI LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. good anatomical preparations, partly purchased,. partly dissected with his own hand, and partly presented to him by his friend and fellow student Mr. George Bell, the present eminent surgeon in Edinburgh. These, limited as they were in num- ber, formed the nucleus of that interesting and i valuable collection which he left at his death. Upon his return from London, Dr. Barclay commenced his Lectures on Anatomy in November 1797» in a small class-room in the High School Yards, which, by the kindness of his friend and patron, Sir James Campbell, he was enabled to fit up. The number of his pupils, we have heard him say, was at first exceedingly scanty, which is not to be wondered at, considering the compara- tively limited number of young men then prose- cuting their medical studies in Edinburgh, and the distinguished eminence of his competitors; the second Monro, and his former master, Mr. John Bell, being then in the blaze of their fame. Notwithstanding this formidable opposition, Dr. Barclay’s punctual attention to his engagements, and assiduous devotion to the instruction of his pu- pils, soon gained him an accession of numbers, and, confident in his own strength, he felt encouraged to extend the scale of his establishment; and, with that view, purchased from Dr. Ramsay the house adjoining the Royal Medical Society in Surgeons’ Square, originally built for a lecture-room by Dr.LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. VTI Duncan, sen. Here he laid the foundation of his Museum, which rapidly increased under his foster- ing care ; and the lecture-room, which was on the upper floor of this house, he was repeatedly ob- liged to alter and enlarge in consequence of the increasing number of his pupils. There were two circumstances to which, in ad- dition to his own merits, we think that Dr. Bar- clay’s early success, as a teacher, may be mainly attributed,—his extensive acquaintance amongst the clergy throughout the country, who are very generally consulted in planning the education of young men coming from their respective parishes to prosecute their education in Edinburgh; and the distinguished patronage which, at an early period, he received from the Royal College of Surgeons. That learned body being satisfied of the soundness of Dr. Barclay’s views as a teacher, with a judgment and liberality which did them infinite credit, in the year 1804, upon the motion of Mr. Law, seconded by Dr. Kellie, resolved unani- mously, “ That the attendance of candidates for “ Diplomas and Certificates on Doctor Barclay’s “ Lectures on Anatomy and Surgery, shall be “ held as equivalent to the attendance on the “ Lectures of Members of the Colleges of Phy- “ sicians or Surgeons of London, Dublin, and “ Edinburgh, or of any other respectable Col- “ lege, on the same subjects.” This importantLIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. VIII step in Dr. Barclay’s favour, taken by the Col- lege as a body, and backed as it was by the individual patronage of some of the oldest and most influential members of that society, par- ticularly the late Mr. Benjamin Bell, and the present Professor Russell, whom he had the happi- ness to rank amongst his private friends, could not fail to have the most decided influence on the prosperity of his class. The value of such a step to a rising teacher, will be readily understood by the profession, and was ever afterwards most fully appreciated by the Doctor himself, who, in the bequest which he made to the College at his death, and in the terms which he used in making that bequest, shewed, that he retained a very grateful sense of his obligations to the powerful patronage of this body, many years after his establishment as a member of the College of Physicians had ren- dered his pupils independent of any special favour. With this last-mentioned body, the Royal College of Physicians, Dr. Barclay became associated as a licentiate in November, 1805 ; and, after a year’s probation, which, we believe, is enjoined by the laws of the College, he was admitted as a resident Fellow in November 1806. His reputation as an assiduous and successful teacher of Anatomy was now fully established. He had become known to all the most distinguish- ed Anatomists of the day, both at home andIX LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. abroad, and was in the habit of occasional corres- pondence with several of them; many of his earlier pupils had become established in practice through- out the country, and were in the habit of recom- mending their successors to his paternal care. From this time forward he was so much in the public eye, as a lecturer and as an author, that it becomes unnecessary to trace the remainder of his progress with the same minuteness which we have hitherto done. In 1811, Dr. Barclay found himself in circum- stances to realize what we have reason to be- lieve he had long anxiously desired. In this year he was married to Miss Eleanora Campbell, the daughter of Sir James, in whose house he had hitherto continued to reside ; and, in the society of this amiable and accomplished lady, he ever afterwards enjoyed that domestic happiness to which his affectionate disposition so well entitled him. In this year also he was presented by his Pupils with a very spirited and well written address, which had been reluctantly substituted for a more substantial proof of their regard. A piece of plate had been intended for him, and subscriptions en- tered into for that purpose ; but their design hav- ing been prematurely made known to the Doctor, he strongly and decidedly objected to the measure, from the reluctance he had always felt to imposeX LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. any avoidable expense on his pupils. His liberality indeed, to young- men struggling with adverse for- tune and straitened circumstances, was one of the most conspicuous traits in his character, and was thought by some to have been carried even to a fault. He gave many young men gratuitous ad- mission to his own lectures; and has even been known to furnish them with the means of feeing other teachers. We would now proceed briefly to notice some of Dr. Barclay’s principal writings, and of these, we think, the bare enumeration is nearly all that is requisite, as they have been successively noticed in the periodical publications of the day, and are well known to the better informed members of the profession. His first contribution to the liter- ature of medicine was, we believe, the article Physiology, which he furnished for the Encyclo- paedia Britannica, and which was calculated to raise his character as a man of science. In 1803, soon after he commenced his career as a teacher. Dr. Barclay attempted a reform in the language of Anatomy, with a view to render it more accurate and precise ; a task for which his ac- quirements, as a classical scholar, rendered him pe- culiarly fit. Although the “ Nomenclature,” which he published upon that occasion, has not yet been universally adopted, we believe that the Profession, with one voice, acknowledges the importance ofLIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. XI the object which he had in view, and the talent and learning with which it was executed. Some of his illustrations of the defects in the existing language of Anatomy, particularly in the terms expressive of position and aspect, were pe- culiarly striking, and highly characteristic of his overflowing humour : “ The terms above, below, “ behind, and before” he used to observe, “ would “ be sufficiently definite, if the body was uniformly “ to preserve the same position ; and so,” said he, “ would be the expression in Hudibras, where the “ author makes Crowdero apply a squeaking engine “ to the north-east side of his neck: this would be “ sufficiently definite, if one could ascertain, by “ compass, in what particular position the fiddler “ stood.” His next work, published in 1808, was a Treatise on “ The Muscular Motions of the Human Body,” calculated to encourage a more attentive study of the simple and combined actions of the muscles, with a view to a more scientific and successful treatment of fractures and luxations ; a depart- ment of surgery, which, even now, although illus- trated by his distinguished friend Sir Astley Cooper, can scarcely yet be said to be rescued from those popular prejudices under which it has so long laboured. In 1812, Dr. Barclay published the first edition of his “ Description of the Arteries of the HumanLIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. XII Body,” a work displaying muck acute observation and laborious research, and which may, perhaps, he considered as the most practically useful of all his writings. The labour which this work must have cost him, may be judged of by the fact, that he wrote no description of any artery imtil he had studied its delineation, as given by Haller, and every other standard authority, and until he had actually examined its course and distribution in every preparation to which he had access; in some instances repairing to Glasgow, to examine the excellent collection of vascular preparations then in the possession of his friend Mr. Allan Burns. His last publication, completed only a short time before his death, was “ An Inquiry into the Opinions, Ancient and Modern, concerning Life and Organization,” a work replete with learning, and with original criticism, and well, calculated to check the progress of those idle and dangerous spe- culations by which some of our modern Philoso- phers have been distinguished. This, like all his former publications, is dedicated to Dr. Thom- son, the present Professor of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow, one of the earliest and most distinguished of his numerous friends. These several works, which afford such remark- able proofs of the inexhaustible energies of Dr. Barclay’s mind, were undertaken and completed amidst the incessant and laborious toils which hisLIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. XIII ■ I \ I i f k d courses of Anatomical Lectures necessarily impos- ed upon him : of these, he gave two very full courses every winter, commencing each of them early in November, and terminating at the end of April. For several years previous to his death, he had also given a course of Compara- tive Anatomy during the summer months. To this branch of study Dr. Barclay had always shewn a marked partiality, not only as an object of scien- tific research, but of great practical utility. He pressed upon the Highland Society of Scotland, of which he was a distinguished member, the pro- priety of giving encouragement to the study of Veterinary Medicine; and to him the public is chiefly indebted for the establishment of the Vete- rinary School, so successfully conducted by his pupil Mr. Dick, under the auspices of the liberal and patriotic body above mentioned. During the last three years of his life, some of his more intimate friends, from a conviction that his health had begun to suffer from these conti- nued exertions, had urged upon him the propriety of either relinquishing one of his winter courses, which was delivered in the evening, or of avail- ing himself of the assistance of some one or other of those gentlemen who had already distinguished themselves as Anatomical Students, or Teachers in Edinburgh. The latter proposal he was at length induced to adopt; and, about the begin-LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. XIV ning of 1825, entered into terms of copartnership with Dr. Knox, the Conservator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, already well known to his profession as an assiduous and successful cultivator of anatomical science, and who has shewn himself, by his lectures both on Human and Comparative Anatomy, so well qualified to support the character of the establishment to which he has succeeded. The estimation in which Dr. Barclay’s instruc- tions were held, is best attested by the numerous audiences which he early attracted, and which con- tinued to attend him to the last, notwithstanding the eminence of his early competitors, and the num- ber and activity of those who were latterly in the field. His distinguishing merits as a lecturer, were his rigid adherence to that order of demonstration which he had adopted as the most useful; his equal and unwearied attention to every department of the course; his copious and happy illustrations of every subject on which he had occasion to touch, and his anxiety to lay a solid and substantial founda- tion, by impressing upon his auditors a knowledge of all that is important,—all that is certain,—all that is useful in the science of anatomy ; while, at the same time, he discouraged a taste for frivolous, vague, or useless speculations. His faults, if they were observed, were readily overlooked : his pu- pils well knew that there never was a teacherXV LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. more sincerely desirous of imparting to them the. valuable information which he possessed, and that there never was a friend more eager to promote their success in life. Upon his retirement from the more arduous du- ties of his lectureship, about eighteen months previ- ous to his death, a meeting of his pupils was held, and subscriptions entered into for the purpose of procuring a bust of their respected teacher. This measure, equally creditable to themselves and to their instructor, originated with some of the younger students of anatomy: it was eagerly em- braced by the seniors, and many applications were received from distinguished members of the pro- fession, who, although they had not been pupils of the Doctor’s, begged permission to participate in the object of the meeting. Although Dr. Barclay had hitherto resisted every proposal of this kind on the part of his pu- pils, yet, when the connexion between him and these pupils had in a great measure ceased, and when, as he was pleased to remark, he found the Author of this Memoir at the head of it, and the meeting countenanced by the presence of his old friend Dr. Duncan, the venerable Professor of the Theory of Physic, he no longer opposed its ob- ject. That object has now been happily attained, and an admirable bust of this distinguished indi- vidual has been executed by Joseph, which is in-LIFE OF DR BARCLAY. XVI tended to be presented to the Royal College of Surgeons, to which learned body Dr. Barclay be- queathed his Museum. This Museum, to which the Doctor devoted much of his time and attention, was collected at a very considerable expense, and was enriched by contributions from his numerous pupils, now dis- persed over the various quarters of the globe. It contains a very valuable collection of specimens in Comparative Anatomy, and some of the finest vascular preparations which are anywhere to be seen. It was made over to the College with the avowed purpose of preventing it from being broken up and scattered after his death; upon condition that it should be allowed to retain his name ; and that it should be devoted to purposes of profes- sional utility. We have reason to expect that it will soon be placed by its new proprietors, in a si- tuation calculated to arrest the public attention, to benefit the medical profession, and to evince the unwearied zeal and activity which enabled Dr. Barclay to bring it together without the aid of public patronage, of private fortune, or official in- fluence. Dr. Barclay’s entire devotion to the teach- ing of Anatomy did not permit his engaging, to any extent, in the practice of his profession, although he was frequently consulted by some of our best surgeons in cases of difficulty, whereLIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. XVII i—i accurate and discriminating anatomical knowledge was required. He was a member of most of the learned societies in this country, sat for many successive years as a Member of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, was a Fel- low of the Royal College of Physicians, and an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. It now only remains for us to advert, with me- lancholy feelings, to the concluding scene of Dr. Barclay’s life. We have already observed, that, for some years previous to his death, his health had begun to suffer perceptibly, and his habitual activity and vigour were sensibly impaired. In Sthe year 1824, while on one of those excur- sions to the country, which he was in the habit of making every autumn, along with his old and at- tached friend, Mr. Oliphant, Writer to the Sig- i net, it was whispered, and generally believed, ! that he had sustained something like a paralytic r attack; but this, if it occurred, must have been I of a slight and transient nature, as it was never mentioned by himself, nor did it fall under the I observation of any of his medical friends. His last i appearance in the Lecture Room was at the com- s mencement of the winter session 1825-26, when 1 he delivered, as usual, his Introductory Address. He continued to visit his friends occasionally during the ensuing winter, and occupied himself at cXVIII LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY. liome in superintending the printing of the first part of these Lectures, and in writing the Lives of Aris- totle and of Harvey, two of his favourite authors : these, however, were not left sufficiently complete to be given to the world. In the course of the following spring and summer, Dr. Barclay fell off rapidly, without any very marked disease ; his speech became much impaired, evidently from a paralytic affection. He was subject to occasional attacks of dyspnoea, and these recurred in pa- roxysms, so as to lead him to consider his com- plaints as asthmatic. For several weeks previous to his death, he was so much debilitated as to be constantly confined to bed, was able to take very little sustenance, and sunk exhausted on the 21st of August, 1826. During his illness, the Doctor was constantly watched and assiduously nursed by Mrs. Barclay, who lives to lament his loss. He was attend- ed professionally by his eminent and esteemed friend Dr. Hamilton, Sen. by his brother-in-law Dr. John Campbell, and by the author of the present brief and imperfect sketch of his life, who, while employed for several years as his assistant, had I frequent opportunities of witnessing his many estimable private virtues ; but from any attempt I to delineate these, he is deterred by the conviction that he owes too much to his deceased friend an master, to consider himself, or to be looked upon i by others, as an impartial judge.LIFE OF DR. BARCLAY'. XIX Dr. Barclay’s remains were interred at Restal- rig-, near Edinburgh, the family burying-ground of his father-in-law, Sir James Campbell. His funeral was attended by a large circle of private friends, and by the Royal College of Surgeons as a body ; anxious to testify their respect for his cha- : racter, and their gratitude for the splendid bequest by which he has enriched their anatomical trea-it ,:J, > t i l ‘ ;• : .i / LECTURE FIRST. Anatomy is a word which, in strict etymology, signifies Dissection, but is now used, in a general sense, for that art, in which, not only by means of the knife, but any species of instrument or contri- vance, we demonstrate the structure of organized bodies. It is also used for a knowledge of the ob- jects about which that art is employed. With a refer- ence to man, it is called Human Anatomy ; with a reference to the lower animals, Comparative ; and when used to discover either the cause or effects of disease, is generally distinguished by the epithet of Morbid. B 01 :LECTURE FIRST. 21 As art or science, it is not only interesting in it- self, but various and extensive in its application. Its great importance to the surgeon and physician, who wish to be either useful to society, or acquire eminence in their profession, was early and univer- sally acknowledged. Without its aid, we can neither . trace the causes of symptoms, operate skilfully on the living body, or investigate morbid appearances in the dead. In the pursuits of the naturalist, it was soon found by the ingenious and illustrious Aristotle to be equally indispensable ; as, by it, we discover, in the form and structure, many of the causes of the temper, genius, manners, and habits of the animal kingdom. To the painter and statuary, who propose to imi- tate animated nature, its advantages are so obvious, that anatomical plates have again and again been published for their use; and, it has been alleged, that many have owed no small share of professional eminence to their previous acquaintance with this art. The courses of Lectures on Medical Jurisprudence, sufficiently shew, of what importance it is to the lawyer. Without a knowledge of the animal struc- ture, the judge, in a number of criminal trials, isLECTURE FIRST. 3 incompetent to decide on the nature of the facts; and it sometimes has happened, that the counsel for the pannel, or what in England is called the defend- ant, from not knowing the nature of the questions which he proposed, has inadvertently become evi- dence against his client. At any rate, when the case is such, that the pannel must stand acquitted or condemned, not upon the simple evidence of facts, but upon the opinion that is formed of their conse- quences, the decision must be regulated by some person acquainted with the nature of the animal eco- nomy ; and, for this reason, not only have the deci- sions of a court, but the laws of a nation, been some- times founded on medical opinion. We are told by Le Clerc, that a law to determine, whether children, in certain cases, be legitimate or spurious, has been enacted in some countries merely upon the opinion of Hippocrates, and in a case where Hippocrates himself was evidently misled by the Samian philo- sopher’s doctrine of numbers. To the Physico-Theologist I need scarcely men- tion the numerous advantages that his studies may ) derive from a knowledge of the animal structure. Many of the ancients, and “ particularly Cicero, have, from this source, derived more arguments in b 2 "t4 LECTURE FIRST. proof of the existence, wisdom, and providence of a Deity, than from all the productions of nature be- sides.” And, it will be found, that these proofs not only exceed the others in number, but surpass them far in the clearness and force by which they impress conviction on the mind, confirm the sentiments of rational piety, and induce the habits of religion and virtue. My intention, however, is not to enume- rate all the advantages which ingenious men of dif- ferent professions may derive from anatomy ;—many more than what I have suggested will present them- selves on a more close inspection of the subject: for the animal structure, to say the least of it, is sin- gularly curious; it affords an almost exhaustless fund of useful instruction, and has, besides, fre- quently conferred an immortal honour on those ac- curate observers who have examined it with patience and success. As I mean to give a short account of the princi- pal discoveries that have been made in this branch of science, the present Lecture will be confined to a general description of those organs of which the hu- man fabric is composed. We shall thus be much better prepared for the History of Anatomy,—shall trace its progress with more advantage and be better,LECTURE FIRST. 5 i enabled to estimate justly the respective merits of those, who, by industry, genius, or accident, have advanced its improvement. Some general view of this kind being usually / given before entering on particular description, many authors have contented themselves with de- fining the principal technical terms that occur in the art: but the late Dr. Hunter, disliking this method, as tedious and dry, and as not admitting his display of talents, has, in order to give an idea of the system, explained the manner in which he thinks that a man might be made. “ Let us,” says he, in the confidence of his heart, “ let us make a man.” This man is accordingly made in one of his Lectures. But though this man, like that of De Cartes, does much credit to his genius and fancy, he turns out to have no more an intrinsic resem- blance to the original, than a statue or picture has to real life. In making this man, he has neither re- Igarded the processes of nature, nor followed the usual order of demonstration; and, on that account, although he has succeeded in amusing his reader, he has not communicated that important instruction which a faithful narration of facts would have fur- > nished. I would fain hope, that the account which I am b 36 LECTURE FIRST. now to give, will be more entertaining than a num- j ber of dry unconnected definitions, not easily remem- I bered, and more instructive than any anatomical fiction whatever. The difficulty is how to begin. As all the parts of the human body are mutually dependent on one another, and as we must return to the same point from which we set out in the descrip- tion, on a cursory view, it may seem indifferentt where we begin. Experience, however, and observa- tion have shown, that we commence at one point: with much more advantage than at another; and,. therefore, the general and most approved order of i demonstration shall, in this instance, determine the I choice; for there is certainly some advantage in ad- • hering to the same method of arrangement: it does • much to prevent confusion, to assist the memory,. and facilitate afterwards a clear and accurate com- • prehension of the subject. Now the first parts to which the attention is usu- • ally directed in a Course of Anatomy, is the Bones, and that branch which treats of these organs is styled Osteology,—a branch of Anatomy of much more importance in Surgery, Physic, and Natural History, than is generally supposed. According to Winslow, Albinus, Monro, and indeed every dis- tinguished anatomist, it is the foundation of the7 LECTURE FIRST. jj whole science, without which no lasting structure can be raised. In the adult or grown-up subject, the bones are the hardest and most solid parts of the whole sys- tem, and, though not the only, are the principal parts that give it form, stability, and posture. At birth, many are soft, flexible, transparent, with scarcely any osseous matter ; others contain several portions of this matter to be afterwards extended; and others their full and ultimate proportions which they have at the advanced periods of life. One set of them, called the Temporary Teeth, twenty in number, are shed in the latter periods of infancy; reckoning the thirty-two which succeed, with the other bones belonging to the skeleton, the whole amount, in the human subject, to about 245. As they give form, stability, and posture, we must suppose them to be somehow connected. Upon examination, we find them connected by unequal 1 surfaces, whose cavities and eminences mutually correspond ; these connections are called Articula- tions, and are naturally divided into three kinds. The first, admitting of a free, easy, and conspicuous motion; the second, of a motion that is rather ob- scure ; and the third, of a motion that is next to imperceptible : these three kinds, with their species8 LECTURE FIRST. or branches, to be afterwards described, are about nine. As the rough surfaces, however, of bones, will not allow them to move on one another without great friction, in all cases where motion is either frequent or extensive, there ought to be some inter- vening substance. We accordingly observe, in the recent subject, that all those articulating surfaces, where any extensive motion takes place, are covered with a smooth and elastic substance, of a pearl colour, known in our language by the name of Gristle, but in Anatomy, by that of Cartilage,— a substance which, independent of its smoothness, is lubricated by a fluid that is called Synovia, and which performs, to the different joints, the same office that oil does to a piece of machinery. As the bones, however, must be restricted in their range of motion, we must also suppose, that there are means by which that end is to be accom- plished. Upon inspection, we perceive that some are prevented from changing their relative situa- tion by certain modes of articulation; while others, where a slight motion is permitted, are united by cartilage; and others, where extensive motion is allowed, connected by ligaments, membranes, or flesh.LECTURE FIRST. 9 The organs called Ligaments, are flexible sub- stances, of a fibrous texture, of a whitish colour, glistening appearance, and of little elasticity : they occur in a great variety of forms, situations, and uses; they are generally on the outside of the joints, and preserve the connection of the bones which are in motion, by their great strength and vigorous adhesions. In the Greek language, from which we have borrowed many of our terms, their name is Syndesmoi,* and as their functions, with the numerous diseases, and the many accidents to which they are exposed, have often attracted the attention of both the surgeon and physician, they have given rise to that branch of anatomy which is styled Syndesmology. In our descriptions, the particular ligaments are seldom enumerated; but reckoning classes sometimes as pairs, those which are described, and have gotten names, are about 100. The connecting substances called Membranes, are in general thin webs, of a whitish colour, more flexible and elastic than ligaments. Besides assist- ing in the security and motion of the joints, they answer a variety of other purposes. They line all * Si/kSswoj.10 LECTURE FIRST the internal cavities, with a few exceptions; sur- round every organ of the body; and, while they contribute to unite the whole, they interpose and preserve a distinction, making separate parts either to co-operate, or to act as independent. They vary in strength, texture, and appearance, and have differ- ent names in different situations : Two, within the cranium, or head, are called Matres ; some, which inclose bundles of flesh, are named Aponeuroses; that which lines the cavity of the chest, and sur- rounds its viscera, is named Pleura ; that which surrounds the cavity of the belly or the abdomen, and furnishes a covering to its viscera, is Peritone- um ; those which inclose articular surfaces, where motion is extensive, are termed Capsules; those which surround bones, are Periostea; and those which surround cartilages, Perichondria ; when they surround any other organ, they are generally term- ed Tunicas, or Coats. The remaining substance which contributes to connect the bones, is flesh. The fore legs, or, as we speak in the language of anatomy, the superior extremities of many quadrupeds, adhere chiefly by this connection to the rest of the system. The flesh indeed adds to the security of all the joints, '»11 LECTURE FIRST. r although we shall find that its principal function is widely different, and that it performs a still more important office in the body. As yet, we have only seen how the bones are joined by articulating surfaces, and how they are preserved in their situation by connecting substan- ces. We have now to inquire by what causes they are put in motion. On a slight examination, we soon perceive, that the causes of all the motions of the body are bundles of flesh, which bundles, or fasciculi, anatomists, borrowing a term from the Greek, have denominated Muscles. Many of the muscles, besides flesh, contain a substance some- what like ligament; and many, through the me- dium of this substance, adhere to the bones : this is the substance, that, in common language, is called Smew, but in Anatomy is better known by the name of Tendon. Both are constituent parts of a c muscle, the flesh and the tendon : both are equally composed of fibres obvious to the sight, and these fibres composed of others that are still smaller, and the smaller fibres composed of others smaller and smaller, so far as they can be traced by the microscope. But even the fibres, obvious to the sight, are never enumerated, nor indeed all the fasciculi or bundles which they compose. Of the fas-LECTURE FIRST. 12 ciculi which are regularly described, and have gotten names, reckoning classes sometimes as pairs, the number amounts to nearly 400. The branch of Anatomy which treats of these organs, is styled Myology; and to those who are anxious to found their treatment of luxation and fracture on the principles of science, and not on the precedents of ignorant empiricism, it holds out the most flattering prospects of distinction and eminence, by removing one of the greatest oppro- briums in the art of surgery ; while to those who are struck with the singular phenomena of ani- mal motion, and inspired with the true spirit of philosophy, are desirous to know by what kind of powers animals breathe, circulate their blood, and digest their aliment, or by what kind of mecha- nism, superior to human, they swim, walk, leap, and fly, in such an astonishing variety of ways, it is, without exception, the most instructive, and the most interesting part of the science. As the muscles, however, are only the imme- diate organs of motion, we must still proceed in our inquiries, and try to discover from what source they derive their energy. On minute examina- tion, we soon learn, that certain white filaments, or ropes, not only enter the different muscles, but13 LECTURE FIRST. all the various organs of the body, and when traced to their origin, are regularly found to ter- minate in the brain, or in what is by some reckon- ed its production, the spinal marrow,—a substance contained in the cavity of the spine, and which, whether a production of the brain or not, is con- nected with the brain, continued from the brain, conjoined with it in function, and similar in ap- pearance, substance, and texture. The filaments, or ropes, issuing from these, are called Nerves, and are proved, by experiment and ob- servation, to be the primary organs of sense, mo- tion, and feeling. The nerves employed in all those functions that are absolutely necessary to the growth and preservation of the individual, perform their of- fices without our consciousness, while those distri- buted to the different organs by which we procure conveniencies and comforts, are subject to the will: at the same time both classes derive their energy from the vital power, but whether directly, or through the medium of some other substance, is a secret in Anatomy which neither the past nor pre- r.i sent times have been able to disclose. All nerves, of whatever description, are branched or ramified; but the numerous branches into which they separate, have never been counted, and inLECTURE FIRST. 14 many instances cannot be traced; the number de- scribed depends much on the taste and dexterity of the anatomist. The trunks themselves, issuing from the brain and the spinal marrow, reckoning them in pairs, are about 40, and in tracing both them and their branches, we observe them, in cer- tain definite places, swelling into knots, which are called Ganglia, or forming networks, which are nam- ed Plexuses. The 40 pairs of trunks, with their pairs of branches, ganglia and plexuses, dignified with names, are above 100. The branch of ana- tomy which treats of these organs, is styled Neu- rology. Having thus seen how the bones are articulated,— by what kind of substances they are connected,—by what organs they are put in motion,—and from what source their motion is derived, we have next to in- quire, how they and the other organs enumerated, increase in bulk, advancing gradually from the pe- riod of conception, when the whole make scarcely a visible speck, to that size which they afterwards ex- hibit in maturer years. That a vital power, totally distinct from any that is known in chemistry or me- chanics, constructs and arranges the different or- gans, and regulates, from the very dawn of our existence, all the processes of growth and nutrition.LECTURE FIRST. 15 must be obvious to every candid observer who takes but a transient view of the subject. Yet growth and nutrition necessarily pre-suppose a supply of nourishment: Whence then is this nourishment derived, and by what means is it conveyed to the i several organs ? Upon examining the animal structure, we find, that the only possible and immediate source of this nourishment, must be the blood, which flows by a thousand various channels into all the different parts of the system. This blood, by rest, spontaneously separates into two parts, a solid and a fluid; the solid again, by a slight pressure, likewise into two; while chemical analysis has shown, that each con- tains a considerable variety of ingredients. All have remarked the singular colour of this 1 fluid. An English anatomist of the name of Lower, observed that it got a shade of this colour in the lungs, or in those organs by which we breathe ; while Mayow, another English anatomist, endeavoured to prove that it is the air regularly inspired into these organs that give it this shade.* At any rate, experi- ence has shown, that, without this regular supply * In the incubated egg, the blood is red, before the heart or the lungs become visible.LECTURE FIRST. 16 of air, the blood could neither nourish the parts nor support life. Such then being the fact, and the heart the great fountain of the blood, we must ne- cessarily suppose that it will send some to the lungs, in order to receive that supply of air which had been long and vaguely conjectured, but by Mayow demonstrated, if not to be the only, at least to be the principal support, and regulating cause of ani- mal temperature. In man accordingly, and in eve- ry other animal with warm blood, we perceive no less than a double heart, or at least two cavities that are named ventricles, one for transmitting blood to the lungs to receive air, and the other for distri- buting it afterwards through the system, and even to the heart and the lungs themselves, for the pur- pose of nourishment. The young anatomist will very naturally be anxi- ous to know, what is the cause of the constant and impetuous flow of the blood. To meet his inquiries, it must be remembered that the heart is a muscle; that through the influence of its nervous energy, it is made to contract and relax, alternately, more than 60 times in a minute, and, at that rate, most singu- lar to tell, without either pain or fatigue during the whole period of existence, be that protracted to 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 years. When it relaxes, its two17 LECTURE FIRST. il l 1 ' a ii cavities or ventricles are enlarged, and the blood flows in ; when it contracts, the ventricles are dimi- nished, and their blood propelled into two large pipes, the one leading directly to the lungs, and the other to all the rest of the system. These two pipes are named Arteries, and as they likewise have a muscular power, and at the same time are very elastic, by contractions similar to those of the heart, they propel the blood towards their ex- tremities, while a valvular apparatus, at their com- mencement, prevents it from returning by the same channels back to the heart. For the more minute distribution of their blood, these two arteries are branched or ramified, while the branches proceeding from the same trunk are frequently observed to unite in their course, and ob- viously with this intention of nature, that when some are obstructed, the parts may be duly supplied by the others with which they communicate, or, as we speak in the language of Anatomy, with which they inosculate or anastomose, the number of branches into which the two arteries divide, is de- i cidedly beyond all computation. It is only the lar- ger and the least numerous that are traced by the ' eye, even when assisted by a powerful microscope, and of these, only the more regular are dignified cLECTURE FIRST. 18 with names, amounting in pairs to more than a hundred. As the blood, however, on account of the valves, cannot return by these arteries back to the heart, we must necessarily look for some other channels by which it is again conveyed to the fountain. Now, by numerous experiments and observations, Harvey, an Englishman whose name should be dear to every anatomist, discovered that those branches of arteries which were large enough to convey red blood, trans- mitted it to branches that conveyed it back in an opposite direction, and that these last branches, by reiterated unions, formed large trunks, which re- turned the whole from all the parts to which the branches of the arteries had sent it. He also observed, that the whole of the blood was sent through the left ventricle of the heart to the system at large ; that the whole was returned by the retrograde vessels back to the right; that the right transmitted the whole to the lungs through the pulmonary artery ; that there it was received by retrograde vessels that conveyed it again to the left ventricle; and that the left conveyed it again to the aorta, or the pipe that distributes it through all the various parts of the system. This is the re- gular course of the blood, which is called circula-LECTURE FIRST. 19 c 2 tion, and which has conferred so immortal an ho- nour upon the discoverer—a man as much distin- guished by his modesty, as by the superior excel- lency of his genius. While the blood in the arteries regularly flows from trunks to branches, in the retrograde vessels, with only one exception,, it as regularly flows from branches to trunks. These retrograde vessels are distinguished in anatomy by the name of Veins ; they are still more numerous than the arteries; are i usually found lying by their sides ; are described by nearly similar names ; have a much less muscular power; and as they are not assisted by the heart in - propelling the blood, as happens to be the case with • the arteries, they open to it larger and larger chan- nels as it advances* and have valves at different parts of their course to prevent its reflux. But here the young anatomist will say, that this < is no explanation at all of what we pronosed ; for, if ! the arteries transmit the whole of their blood to the veins, and the veins return it back to the heart, how are the different organs to be nourished ? The observation is certainly just; and, in order to ac- l count for the nourishment of the system, we must > necessarily suppose, that certainly some branches of j arteries wander fr°m the course of this circulation, and terminate otherwise than in venous branches.20 LECTURE FIRST. The truth is, we find that various series of branches belong to the arteries ; that those composing the ultimate series are so minute as not to admit the red and grosser parts of the blood ; that many are destined to convey only the thinner portion of this circulating fluid ; and that many of these, wander- ing from the circle, empty themselves into bones, muscles, ligaments, and nerves, and the other parts of which the animal fabric is composed; when there, each part, by a vital process that is called Assimila- tion, converts this fluid into a substance of its own specific character and properties. We observe farther, that some of this last series of arteries open on the surface, where they exhale perspirable matter; others on the central aspect of the lungs, exhaling that vapour which appears in the breath ; that others again, for various purposes, pour out their fluids into the different cavities of the system, and many into bodies of various shapes, sizes, and structures, which anatomists have chosen to call Glands, and in which the fluids of these ves- sels are, by certain processes, changed into fluids of a different quality ; some of these, to lubricate the joints and the parts in motion ; some to assist in preparing the aliment and promoting digestion; some to protect the skin and the surface; some a fluid, employed as a means to generate the species ; andBut though we have thus nourished the system, by circulation, it may naturally be asked, What have birth. we gained by the explanation ? The difficulty is allowing the fluids to escape from the course of the I LECTURE FIRST. 21 some a fluid to nourish the offspring after its rather increased than diminished ; for, having al- lowed the fluids to escape, to be lodged in bones, ligaments, muscles, and shut cavities, how are we to return them ? How dispose of them ? And by what means, when the body is wasting, shall we carry off* the decayed parts ? As these fluids do not accumulate in the healthy state, there must be ne- cessarily some way by which they get out, or some other system of vessels besides veins by which they return to the mass of blood. For the solution of these difficulties, we are chiefly indebted to Rudbeck, a Swede, Bartholine, a Dane, and Jolyffe, an Englishman, who discovered, nearly at the same time, a system of vessels that convey- ed all the decayed parts, and all the thin and pellu- cid fluids that were carried by the smaller series of arteries from the course of circulation, back to the blood. From the clear and watery appearance of the fluid which they contained, they were named Lym- c 3LECTURE FIRST. 22 phatics: they arise from all the internal cavities, commence towards every part of the surface, and have origins in every organ of the body. In short, they accompany the smaller arteries in the same way as the red veins accompany the larger. They are therefore a subordinate system of veins, destined to return the thin and pellucid portion of the blood which flowed in the smaller series of arteries; which arteries might be named the Lymphatic Arteries, and these with propriety the Lymphatic Veins. As the smaller arteries are more numerous than those which carry red-coloured blood, the lymphatics arp more numerous than the red veins,—are, like these veins, furnished with valves, and, like these veins, carrying their fluids from branches to trunks, they at last terminate in two trunks, which dis- charge their fluids into the trunks of the red veins a little before they enter the right auricle of the heart. Having thus brought the lymphatic fluid, and all the decayed parts of the system, back to the blood, we must now consider in what way we are to dispose of them. It is very evident that these fluids are sent back for one or other of the following pur- poses, either to undergo new preparations to fit them again for those situations which they formerly occu-LECTURE FIRST. 23 | or to be thrown by some emunctories out of :/ the system. If they return to undergo new prepa- I rations, and remain in the system, for what purpose are the regular and constant supplies of nourish- I: ment ? For, if the supplies of aliment be necessa- j ry, it will be difficult to assign a reason why the decayed parts of the system should be retained. But the supplies of aliment are necessary, and there- fore it follows that the decayed parts of the system should be thrown out. The conclusion, however, necessarily involves us in new embarrassments : For by what channels are we to discharge them ? To do this, we must have recourse to those small arterial vessels that wander from the course of the circulation, that was known to Harvey. Many of these, as mentioned already, open externally upon the skin, and upon the internal surface of the lungs ; others terminate in two large glands, which are call- ed Kidneys, and in which the urinary fluid is se- creted ; many also discharge their contents into that long, winding canal, which begins at the mouth, and terminates at the opposite extremity of the body. By these outlets we are able to demonstrate how, along with the vapour from the lungs, the perspir- able matter from the skin, the fecal discharge, and the urine, all the decayed parts arc evacuated.24 LECTURE FIRST, Having thus seen how these decayed parts are re- moved, and how the system is nourished by the blood, we have next to inquire, how the blood can sustain this loss, and by what channels its supplies are conveyed into the course of circulation. We see the food taken into the mouth, we see it masticated by the teeth, and plentifully mixed with that juice which is called Saliva, and which flows into the mouth from a number of glands in the vicinity. As it moves along, it receives more juice from vessels and other glands in the passage; it arrives soon at a large dilatation of this canal, which is called Stomach; here it meets with ano- ther juice that is named the Gastric: the canal again becomes narrow, and is named Intestine, with many convolutions, and nearly six times the length of the body. Into this portion of the canal glands and vessels likewise continue to pour in their fluids, to lubricate the tube, or assist in the preparation of aliment. Two of these fluids are distinguished by their quantity, by the size of the glands in which they are prepared, and the largeness of the ducts by which they are conveyed. The first of the two— of a greenish colour and a bitter taste, is named Bile, and secreted in the liver; the second is called the Pancreatic Juice, secreted in a gland that is named the Pancreas.25 lecture first. By the assistance of all these juices, by the heat of the body, and by the action of the canal, which possesses a degree of muscular power, all the nutri- tious part of the aliment is converted into a white and thin fluid,in colour similar to milk, which is term- ed Chyme. If we could shew how this chyme gets in- to the blood, we should solve the problem, how the blood receives its regular supplies, and from what source the system is nourished. The ancients thought that the chyme entered by the red veins that spread upon the intestinal tube. Their opinion, however, was hasty and erroneous. The truth, here, was a secret in Anatomy for many ages, until Asellius, an Italian anatomist,* chancing to open a live dog, discovered, by accident, a number of ves- sels, different from the veins, opening into the tube, and absorbing the chyme, which, on entering these vessels, assumed the name of Chyle. These vessels, from their milky-coloured fluid, were called Lacteals, and were afterwards traced uniting together, enter- ing the trunk of the lymphatics, and sending their fluid into those veins which open through the me- dium of its auricle, into the right ventricle of the i heart. Erasistratus also had seen these vessels, but knew not their functions.26 LECTURE FIRST. Having thus taken a general view of all the va- rious classes of organs in the human body, and their different functions ; having seen, in general, how the bones are united by articulations ; how connect- ed by ligaments, membranes, and flesh ; how put in motion by the action of muscles, and how these derive their energy from the nerves : having likewise seen how every organ is nourished by the blood ; having seen how this fluid is sent from the heart, by means of the arteries, and conveyed back through the veins and lymphatics ; having seen how the useless or decayed parts are evacuated, and how the nutritious part of the food gets into the course of the circulation,—we have now to inquire, by what means can this complex and delicate machine be preserved in existence for such a great number of years ? To meet this inquiry, the system is guarded from external injuries by its integuments; the first of which, a thin covering, without any feeling, called Epidermis ; the next a glairy mucous substance^ known by the name of the rate mucosum, beneath which are two thin cuticles, and beneath these the cutis vera, or the true skin ; beneath all is the Tela cellulosa, or cellular membrane, which proceeds in- wards, penetrates most of the organs of the body,27 LECTURE FIRST. and seemingly contains the whole in its cells. But though the animal owes much of its general security to these coverings, it owes more to these senses, in- stincts, and appetites, which the wise Author of Nature has bestowed. By these, it is led to pursue what is useful, and to guard against danger, inconve- nience, and want. Nor is this all: he has likewise conferred, to a certain extent, on all living bodies, the power of reproduction, by which they are fre- quently able to repair the slighter injuries to which the different organs are exposed ; and if this power be exceedingly languid in the latter periods of old age, it is because the Author of Nature never intend- ed that the animal structure should be immortal. He has fixed its bounds, which it cannot pass, and has measured out the time when the fairest fabric must crumble into dust, and its animating spirit return unto Him, the great Almighty Incompre- hensible Being, who at first bestowed it.. - • ■:> ■ 1 * it •: ’ u! • ' 17 . • ' / »V : ’ a : 3'J a; ■v r: /rj >:i : •, t ji >{h A.Iri.i l a ;• ■4 • / ' . . r -I v; :v;’ :r :• ■ > : -" •- ; > ■ . ■ . ‘: ■ 3 1 ’ r r » ' ' ‘ iV ‘ ■ ■ it. tfV-:.; ■ 4 i'-rAz.i ‘>4 ' - >’• ”" • ' ' • ‘ ' : . ’ £j 'LECTURE SECOND. !' n ii > Having taken a distant view of the system, I shall now make a nearer approach, and point out the mode by which we may attain a more accurate inspection. In the Anatomical part of the Course, I intend to demonstrate the several organs, as near- ly in the order in which they have been mention- ed, as the nature of the subject will conveniently permit; at the same time I shall study to explain their different functions, so far as they are known to modern physiologists ; and any observations of that kind that cannot with propriety be introduced with the demonstration, shall be reserved for sepa- rate lectures. When the parts are before us,—to arrest the at- tention, and to make a more lasting impression on the mind, I shall sometimes mention the time of their discovery, their successive improvements, with the accidents and other circumstances that led to them.LECTURE SECOND. 30 For the sake of illustration, and of those gentle- men who may wish to acquire more extensive ideas of the animal economy, or even of living bodies in general, 1 shall occasionally introduce Comparative Anatomy, and, where the analogy seems to be strik- ing, point out the structure and functions of plants. But, in order to prevent confusion and error, I shall at all times keep in my view the human body, as the standard or scale by which the size, form, si- tuation, and proportions are to be estimated. By a steady adherence to this plan, it is to be hoped that our principal object will be better illustrated and understood, our ideas accumulate without con- fusion, and become general without being vague. In many respects this comparison is necessary. All living bodies with which we are acquainted, are constructed on one general plan, possess similar, at least analogous, organs and functions ; and being mo- dified only as to class, order, genus, and species, con- tribute much to illustrate one another. In one animal, for instance, the organ is small, its structure complicated, or its use obscure; while, in another, this organ is large, its structure simple, and its use obvious. So that many discoveries which are now made in human anatomy, would have still been un- known, had they not been previously made in the comparative.LECTURE SECOND. 31 Another reason for appealing to the structure of various animals, is, that by confining our researches to one species, we might be apt to ascribe too much to the form, size, structure, and situation of organs but, by examining different animals, we soon learn that similar functions may be performed by or- gans of various forms, magnitudes, proportions, si- tuations, and structures, or should the functions happen to be varied according to the organs, we are led to a very useful inquiry, not only how far the variety of function, but of genius, habits, instincts, and manners, is connected with each variation of the organs. Thirdly, Without the aid of Comparative Anato- my, we might often be induced to entertain false con- ceptions of the relative importance of the different organs ; but when we see them imperfect in one ani- mal, wanting in another, diseased, obliterated, or ex- tracted, m a third, with or without any essential in- jury to life, we have then criteria by which we may be able to form some judgment of that rank which they hold even in the human species. Fourthly, Comparative Anatomy becomes ne 'cessary in ascertaining the action of organs. All the functions have long ceased before the human body can legally be opened; and it is only in the lower animals that we can presumeLECTURE SECOND. 32 to make experiments, and examine the mechanism while it is in motion. It is, therefore, in this field of inquiry that we chiefly have acquired our know- ledge of the functions. Lastly, Comparative Anatomy is an object of im- portance ; considered by itself, it can be practised at all times, and in all places, with very little inconve- nience or obstruction. By it a person may readily acquire a facility in dissection, a dexterity and con- fidence in surgical operations, and not only preserve, hut extend the knowledge which he has acquired of the human system. Above all, it is found of singu- lar utility in natural history; it there lays open an extensive field of useful inquiry, and, every day, be- comes a source of, not only delightful, but endless amusement: it not only shews us how to examine the structures of animals with our own hands, but if we be fond of works on Zoology, it comes forward like a friendly interpreter, explains a great number of phenomena which otherwise we could not possibly comprehend ; presents before us a wide range of ani- mated beings, infinitely varied in form, magnitude, and colour, in strength, instincts, habits, and man- ners, yet all exhibiting a number of the same com- mon functions, and all proving that our generic and specific distinctions are only branches of the samelecture second. 33 plan ; that all are radically and essentially the same; and that we ought to study the whole, if we wish to have just or enlarged ideas of the animal economy, or be much interested in the improvement of that i science which is styled Physiology. : In the sense of anatomists, physiology is the i science that treats of the functions of the different i organs, whether separate or combined, ou will readily perceive that this science must be intimately ■ / connected with a course of anatomy : they are in- deed so intimately connected, that, in the opinion of the late Dr Hunter, they should never be sepa- rated. “ The man,” says he, “ who makes it his “ business to investigate every thing relating to the “ structure of the human body, must be, cater is pa- “ ribus, the fittest person to explain its operations, “ and there cannot be a more proper occasion than “ when the parts are before him.” In that case, the uses and functions will be regularly demonstrat- ed, and not merely talked of, as they are in books and in courses of physiological lectures,—a practice which Hunter had strongly reprobated, and which, from seeing its pernicious tendency, had made him determine to incorporate physiology with his anato- my, the only way in which it could be taught with accuracy or advantage. I am so far of these senti- D34 LECTURE SECOND. ments, that I really think a course of anatomy with- out physiology, or a course of physiology without anatomy, would be scarcely an object deserving your attention : for, what does mere anatomical dissec- tion present to the student, but a set of facts with- out explanations; and what does mere physiology present, but a suit of observations, hypotheses, and hearsays, ultimately founded, as is always pre- tended, on the evidence of facts, but these facts never brought forward into your presence, either to confute or corroborate the assertions. If you hear their evidence, you must hear it through the medi- um of an interpreter, and are no more likely to dis- cover the truth than you would be from hearing one side of a pleading in a court of law. Nay, after both sides have been heard, it has frequently happen- ed, that the truth has remained in as great obscuri- ty as before. Many of the facts on which the great discovery of the circulation was founded, were known previous to the time of Harvey ; but their evidence was taken upon the report of those physiologists who had humours,interests, and hypotheses to serve. Har- vey was the first who had the courage, perseverance, and candour to collect them together, to bring them forward, and then to make them, in presence of anatomy, to deliver their evidence without an in-35 lecture second. d 2 tcrpreter. The circulation was thus made known, for the first time ; and, though some physiologists en- deavoured to obscure it by their false glosses and interpretations, yet anatomy as regularly brought forward the facts to speak for themselves, and at last succeeded in establishing the truth beyond the possibility of contradiction. In the following course, I shall, therefore, with Hunter, consider anatomy and physiology to be as they ought to be, inseparably connected, and combin- ed together as closely as they are in the great elemen- tary work of Haller. In this view, anatomy will not only furnish us with the facts, but with the explana- tions, so far as they are warranted by ocular demon- stration, while, at the same time, it will guard us against being duped by hypotheses that rest upon the evidence of oral testimony, which exhibits facts through a false medium, and which have so often disgraced the pages of physiology. In this sense, I may safely venture to say of anatomy, that it is not only ornamental and useful, but even iudispensable to the surgeon and physician, who, as guardians of health, can never be qualified, either to preserve, im- prove, or restore it, as long as they are strangers to the nature of the organs, or the state of the func- tions on which it depends.36 LECTURE SECOND. By way of contrast to the skilful practitioner, who has made all the necessary preparations for entering on the duties of his profession, let us fancy a man ignorant of anatomy, and yet pre- suming to practise without it, by what means can he ascertain the seats of disease, discover the particular organs affected, estimate the danger of the complaint, or foretel its issue ? Having never seen the parts, or viewed them but carelessly, he must be a stranger to their connection, their situa- tion, and relative importance; and, though custom and fashion may sometimes lead, as well as mislead him, yet when anomalous symptoms appear, he must be involved in inextricable difficulties : it will then be in vain to look for precedents in past experience; his only guide must be ignorant conjecture, which, directed by timidity, will lead to a practice feeble and inert, or, directed by rashness, to one that is equally dangerous to his patient. Suppose that his patient shall at last sink under the distemper, and that our practitioner is required by the friends to open the body, to ascertain the seat of the disease, the extent of the injury, and explain the connection between it and its symptoms, in what manner is he to proceed ? Is he frankly to acknow- ledge his presumption and ignorance, or tacitly be- tray them by his awkward confusion in opening the37 LECTURE SECOND. D 3 . body ? Or, granting that no confession is made, and ll that no signs of confusion appear; on opening the body, what does he see ? The viscera lying together i in a mass, which he knows not how to dissect 01 de- ll monstrate ; various colours, sizes, anu forms, but no < one to tell him whether these be the natural or dis- eased appearances. H.e must feel like a stranger in a j foreign country ; he has a list of the different places which he means to visit, but cannot distinguish the one from the other, until they are pointed out and described ; he is ignorant of its history, its manners, ! and its language ; he has no guide, no interpreter, no map of the roads to instruct him ; and, bating a little folly and conceit, returns as ignorant as when he went abroad. But, let him pretend to have dis- i covered what he was seeking, another comes after him, examines a case that had been attended with li similar symptoms, and detects not only the igno- rance and falsehood of his report, but exposes him < to public ignominy and contempt. Let us next bring him, in the character of a sur- geon, to a patient who is labouring under a severe local affection. The disease, he is told, is extending rapidly, and the question is asked, Will an opera- tion prevent the consequences ; are the parts conti- guous of much importance ; how far is each, or howLECTURE SECOND. 38 far are the whole, essential to life; may an opera- i tion be performed with freedom ; or will it require an uncommon dexterity, skill in anatomy, and cir- j i cumspection ; or, are the circumstances of the case1} ; such that no operation can be performed, or that noil operation can be of service ? To be placed in offi- [I cial situations of this kind, to have these, or such il questions proposed, and yet to be totally unprepared for an answer, must be highly distressing to a per- 1 son of any sensibility or spirit, and who, than be re- duced to such a dilemma, would not rather undergo 1 a thousand inconveniencies in obtaining that neces- sary degree of information which both his honour and the duty of his profession point out to him. But should au operation be found necessary, a new train of embarrassments must ensue : Information t alone will not be sufficient; that dexterity of hand, i which can only be acquired by practice in dissection, 1 and that firmness of mind, and quickness at expedi- ents, resulting from the habit of being familiar with such scenes, are qualifications equally indispens- i able. Yet, uneligible as his situation may be, his pa- tient is still more to be pitied. Let us figure to ourselves but the circumstances of his case, when the knife of such an unskilful operator is making39 LECTURE SECOND. its incisions, and, surrounded with blood, is moving at random in the widening gash, and at every stroke making a number of hair-breadth escapes amidst a variety of important viscera on which life depends. It is surely for the quiet of our own minds; it is for our interest, and for our reputation, that this information and these habits should be acquired: for, can we imagine that any person, not totally deaf to the dictates of humanity, and callous to every true sense of honour, could, after mature and deli- berate reflection, enter on a charge where he is en- trusted w7ith the lives and happiness of his fellow- creatures, provided he were conscious of his own inability, and fully persuaded that, not only indivi- duals, but whole families, might suffer irrecoverably through his incapacity or criminal neglect in point of education. “ When we hear any man of the profession,” says Dr. Hunter, “ talking of all the knowledge of ana- tomy that is necessary for a physician, and of as much as a surgeon needs to know, we cannot but lament the singularly hard fortune of his patients, first, in being sick or diseased, and then in falling under the care of so ignorant a counsellor. Who is the man of practice and integrity, that can lay his hand on his heart, and say, that he has not, someLECTU11E SECOND. 40 time or another, had occasion for all his anatomical knowledge, and who has not wished, at times, that he had been possessed of more ?” I know it has been said that many a practitioner has met with considerable success in practice, with- out much knowledge of either anatomy or physiolo- gy. I doubt much the truth of the assertion, and more particularly, as the reputation of great success and of great skill may sometimes be acquired by bold pretensions and by artful imposture, where skill and success were nowise concerned. But, grant- ing it was true, many a blind man, by groping his way, has travelled through a country, and through the narrow alleys of a town, without suffering any disaster; yet will any one assert, that he could not have travelled with more ease, expedition, and safe- ty, had he enjoyed the advantages of sight. Now, in some measure, anatomy is to medicine what sight is to the body; and we have not much hesitation in saying, that those who venture to prac- tise without it, must not unfrequently be groping in the dark. We must feel, therefore, a kind of regret, that the father of physic, from the times in which he lived, was unavoidably ignorant of many of the organs of the animal structure, knew nothing precisely with regard to the functions of those he41 LECTURE SECOND. had seen, and was often led to explain the general economy of the system, upon the principles of a philosophy which nature has disclaimed. A feel- ing, however, of a different description arises in the mind, when we see ignorance swollen with conceit, and proudly neglecting not only the frequent but inviting opportunities of acquiring information. W e can hardly read, without feeling a decree of con- tempt for a celebrated modern treatise upon far- riery, where much is said of the cure and diseases of the gall-bladder in horses ; though no horse, if we can trust to repeated dissections, ever had a gall- bladder. I might easily collect numerous instances of the like kind, arising from the neglect of anatomy. But 1 hope it is obvious, that a medical practice, thus founded upon ignorance, and upon the hypo- theses of organs and functions, and imaginary agents, cannot fail to be hurtful, and that it is the interest of every one engaged in the profession, who has a regard for his own character, or the good of others, to acquire as complete a knowledge of the structure and of the economy of the human body as his own ability, or the present state of science, will permit. The question is. By what means is this informa- tion to be acquired ?LECTURE SECOND. 42 In my opinion, by that patient and accurate dis- section which displays the structure. By calling to our aid the mechanical philosophy which illustrates the general properties of matter. By applying likewise to the chemical philosophy for an explanation of these properties that belong to certain combinations of matter : And By diligent inquiry into the cause or causes of * those phenomena that characterise living organized systems of matter. From these sources has the whole of our present information been derived; and I now shall proceed, as a general, and, I think, as an useful preparation for that course on which we are to enter, to mention some of the principal discoveries which each of them has furnished, and to point out, at the same time, those particular departments in which each, under a prudent management, may be made instrumental in leading to improvement and to future discoveries. Observing the order in which they have been mentioned, I shall begin with a general account of the principal discoveries made by dissection. It were to be wished that the history of this part of anatomy were better understood. Ignorance here has not only retarded the progress of the science, but, unfortunately, combined with selfishness andLECTURE SECOND. 43 vanity, has threatened its decline. Haller, the most enlightened judge of his age, observes, that anatomy was better understood 40 years before his time, than at the period when he wrote.* His contemporaries then, like many of ours, were so much occupied in describing, and wondering at what they themselves had both seen and done, that they either did not know, or cared not about knowing, that the like had repeatedly been seen and done by others before them. It, therefore, happens, that many discoveries of the present day, are the mere repetitions of what have been made centuries ago : that many of our present theories and hypotheses, considered as quite origi- nal and new, are in fact very old, and are now only returning to visit us, after a long period of absence, though generally, indeed, under new names, and somewhat disguised in their language and manner.j- Our modern anatomists, not usually remarkable for * En general, dit M. de Haller, on a des connoissances moins entendues sur l’anatomie de l’homme, qu’on n’en avoit il y a quarante ans. Preface, p. 3. d PHistoire de VAna- tomic et de la Chirurgie, par M. Portal.—I have quoted Portal, as I have not yet found the passage in Haller to which he re- fers. + The rational, animal, and vegetative souls of Plato, appear- ed on the stage in the days of Galen, under the names of the Animal, Vital, and Natural Spirits, lately characterised by Bichat under the name of Animal and Organic Life.44 LECTURE SECOND. their erudition, excepting what they gather from indexes, from the foolish supposition, that our whole stock of knowledge is contained in the common- place treatises of the schools, imagine themselves to be first-rate discoverers, when they notice a fact, or make an observation, that is not found there. To prevent anticipation, they hurry to the press, preg- nant with their new and important materials; tell us how little they have learned from books, and how little others may expect to gain from them; that all before them have been wandering in the mists of ignorance or error, and that they alone are the only persons who have been able to develope the myste- ries which nature had so long tried to conceal. This sort of language is admirably suited to the young and inexperienced, who are fond of novelties, and who are generally disposed to believe, that the last book published contains the whole information on the subject. The works of the ancients, and our learned predecessors, are therefore neglected for the meagre productions of these selfish and illiterate pretenders; and this practice, of which Haller and Portal so grievously complain,* is likely to conti- * See Portal’s Preface to his History of Anatomy and Sur- gery, and Haller’s Prefaces to different volumes of his Ele- ments of Physiology.45 LECTURE SECOND. , nue, and even to increase, as long as weak and ig- i norant credulity shall incline to give credit to their assertions. But, as all the moderns are not included in this general censure, to do equal justice to them and the ancients, let us candidly trace the progress of the art. ! Dissection, as an art, was certainly unknown to the I rude and more early periods of society. All that was then known of the structure, was collected chiefly from casual observations. There were few who had not opportunities of seeing the bones of in- ferior animals at the feast; many had seen even hu- man bones on the scenes of battle, dug out of graves, or washed down from the banks of rivers. Among the great number of men, and of lower ■ animals that perish in the fields from disease, hunger, ii fatigue, or violence, whole skeletons would be some- iti times observed. The huntsman, the priest, and those who killed f animals for food, would be frequent witnesses of the form, situation, and colour of the soft parts: the haruspex, or augur, was often obliged to examine them with attention, and, in many instances, was able to distinguish the natural and preternatural ap- pearances ; while the priest, whose deity chose to be honoured with human sacrifices, could not fail to re-46 LECTURE SECOND. mark the striking analogy between man and qua- drupeds. But, to say no more, their language is a proof, that, though ignorant of their intimate structure and functions, they at least had names for the prin- cipal bones, and the most important and conspicu- ous viscera in the human body; and we are assured, that, from attending to fractures and wounds, the progress of disease, and the methods of cure, they had even acquired some knowledge of the animal economy. Yet, after all, their knowledge was ira- perfect: “ Anatomy was not practised as an art; « they seldom reasoned upon what they had seen; « their observations were not turned into use; they « were not made to reflect light on medicine, or to ic direct the operations of surgery. Some, indeed, are inclined to believe, that the ancient Egyptians had as accurate and extensive * knowledge of anatomy as we have at present. They say that Athotis, one of the first sovereigns of Egypt, was the author of several books on the sub- ject, in which he laid down rules for dissection : that one of the medical treatises of Hermes relat- ed to the structure of the human body : and, lastly, that much of this knowledge was implied m the art of embalming.47 LECTURE SECOND. The claim of Athotis is supported by Eusebius and Africanus, as quoted by Syncellus, and their authority was the popular tradition of Egyptian priests, who, to raise their country in the estima- tion of the credulous Greeks, pretended to all that was learned and scientific. Hermes is known to have been the tutelary spirit of the pillars on which the writings of Egypt were in- scribed, and was therefore considered not only as the patron, but the inventor of their arts and sciences. But, as Hermes in Greece, Mercury at Home, and Thoth in Egypt, signified a pillar as well as a god, the writings of Hermes had a twofold meaning: they might either denote, simply, the writings inscribed on the pillars, or the writings of the god to whom these pillars were consecrated. The last was the sense in which the priests were anxious that the phrase should be understood: for, among the ancients, it was a more common species of fraud, to publish their writings under celebrated names, than, like the modems, to pilfer the writings that belong to another, and impu- I dently to publish them as if they were their own. By the writings of Hermes, we are then to under- stand the writings of the priests: and, indeed, we are told by Jambliclius and Galen,j" that every new f De Mysteriis Egyptiorum. Also Galen, Lib. I. contra Jul. de Simp. Med. Fact, Lib. IV. See Bergman’s Hist, of Chemistry, p. 44.LECTURE SECOND. 48 discovery in Egypt was first approved by the com- mon voice of the priesthood, and afterwards engraved upon these pillars or stones of the temple, without the author’s name. Hence these writings, from cunning on one hand, and from ignorance, creduli- ty, and superstition, on the other, being generally supposed the writings of a deity, were thought per- fect. It was deemed sacrilege to attempt any im- provement or change \ and the learning of Eg} pt accordingly, like that of China, became stationary for ages. If a patient died, the surgeon or physi- cian who attended, was examined, and if it appear- ed that, in any respect, they had deviated from the practice recommended by Hermes, they were punish- ed with death. These facts contribute little to exalt our opinion of either Egyptian anatomy or physic. It has been suggested, that many improvements must necessari- ly have arisen, from a custom in Egypt, which per- mitted none to undertake the cure of the whole sys- tem, but required each practitioner to confine him- self to some particular organ or function. The in- ference here would certainly be just, if they had possessed a general knowledge of the whole system, and of the mutual dependance of its several organs, or, if this custom of theirs had arisen from the same49 LECTURE SECOND. motives as our modern division of labour. But a passage of Origen would seem to insinuate, that their I practice rather proceeded from the gross superstition of judicial astrology. The Egyptians had divided the human body into thirty-six parts ; each of these parts I had its tutelary genius; their diseases were owing either to his displeasure or neglect, and, in most cases, were to be removed, not by physical skill, or physical remedies, but by certain magical incanta- Itions and rites. As for embalming, that art, as described by He- rodotus and Diodorus Siculus, required no skill in anatomy : it was merely the consequence of a cer- tain creed, and was rather a ceremony of religion, than a lesson in anatomy. The brain was extracted through the nostrils, the intestines through a small I incision in the belly.* The instrument used in this last operation was a stone ; and, as the Egyptians regarded with horror any person who offered violence to a dead body, the one who made the incision, fled i immediately, as if he had incurred the public male- diction, and those who were present pursued him ■ji * Herodotus, in Euterpe, describes different modes of em- balming • and in the Notes to Beloe’s translation, the reader is referred to these works, where all the information respecting the art of embalming by the ancients is to be found. E50 LECTURE SECOND. with stones, as a mark of national detestation and abhorrence. These accounts, again, ill coincide with Egypt’s high pretensions to Anatomy. It is in vain to ap- peal to her mummies : many of these are preserved. in our museums, but exhibit few marks of dexterity or skill in the operator. Our modern collections of birds, quadrupeds, fishes, and insects, display in- finitely more ingenuity ; and yet these, we know, can be easily prepared without any anatomical ac- quirements. If we wish to see the commencement of Anatomy, on a rational plan, made the study of ingenious and learned men, and directed with a view to surgery, physic, and philosophy, in general, we must look to the Greeks. That singular people, intrinsically ennobled by their greatness of mind, and their spirit of enterprise, were the first who conceived the am- bitious design of collecting the wisdom of all na- tions, of travelling into distant and foreign coun- tries, and of returning, not enriched with their gold, their silver, or their commerce, but with a know- ledge of their arts and sciences. They were the first, or among the first, who erected libraries; the first who attended to arrangement of thought; to simplicity, elegance, and correctness of expression— and who, thus qualified, established seminaries with51 LECTURE SECOND. the generous intention of diffusing knowledge to all indiscriminately. One of their travellers, and their earliest writer that is now extant, was Homer, their celebrated poet. He seems to have known the value of ana- tomy in surgical operations,—describes minutely the means employed in the cure of wounds,—the methods of extracting arrows and darts,—of stop- ping hemorrhages, and applying dressings,—dwells long on the luxations and fractures of the leg, and is quoted by Galen with respect to some of the ab- dominal viscera. He has even been thought to have wounded his heroes, chiefly with a view to show his acquaintance with the animal structure, and with the relative situation of its organs. * Some have admired his anatomy so much, that they have written books upon the subject; and though one may rather be disposed to smile at their absurd and extravagant encomiums, yet, it must be confessed, that his descriptions, so far as they go, are wonder- fully accurate, and bespeak a degree of information that appears extraordinary for one at the period in which he lived. At any rate, his Iliad and Odyssey, so generally read and enthusiastically admired, must * See Portal’s History of Anatomy and Surgery, vol. i. p. 18. E 252 LECTURE SECOND. greatly have contributed to raise an esteem for these kinds of subjects, not only in Greece, but in lesser Asia, in Sicily, and in Italy, and every place where his countrymen had settlements. In what manner he acquired his information, whether from actual observation and dissection, or merely from reading and conversation, is not known. At the period when he composed the Odyssey, and where he speaks of the blind Tiresias, he intimates distinctly, and with some feeling, that he, at the time, also was blind. Pythagoras, the philosopher, seems likewise to have directed the attention of mankind to this study. Alcmeon, one of his pupils, is said to have dissected, with his own hands, and to have discovered certain passages which we find between the ear and the mouth. Empedocles, another, was the first who asserted, that all living bodies sprung originally from eggs ; a proof that he had examined and com- pared the ova of animals and the seeds of plants. A third of this school is particularly mentioned as having employed much of his time in the practice of dissection. This person was Democritus of Ab- dera, a Greek, a traveller, a man of profound and extensive research,—a contemporary, and even friend of Hippocrates,—the inventor of the Corpuscular Philosophy, the Restorer of the Vacuum, proscribedLECTURE SECOND. 53 by Thales, and the first in history who applied his observations with a view to illustrate the animal economy. His peculiar manners, the place of his retirement, and the unusual nature of his studies, were thought, by his countrymen, the effects of madness. They therefore sent for Hippocrates to visit him. Hippocrates went, and found the phi- losopher sitting on a stone, under the spreading shade of a plane tree, a number of books arranged on each side, one on his knee, a pencil in his hand, and a number of animals, which he had dissected, lying around him ; his complexion was pale, his person thin, his countenance thoughtful; at times he laughed, at times shook his head, mused for a while, and then wrote, then rose up and inspected the animals, sat down and wrote again : the subject on which he was writing was madness, and the ob- ject of his dissections the seat and nature of the bile, which somehow or other he conceived to be the cause of that distemper. Hippocrates acknowledged the great import- ance of his inquiries, and regretted much that his own professional employments, his domestic concerns, and other avocations, did not permit him to indulge likewise in similar pursuits. From this confession, it may be supposed that Hippocrates, E 354 LECTURE SECOND. prior to this period, had not devoted much of his time to practical anatomy, although the knowledge which he afterwards acquired, from observation, reading, or dissection, was not inconsiderable. He has given a summary view of the bones,* and though not accurate as to their number, he has well described many of their forms, articulations, and processes,! ail(^ speaks of a fluid secreted in the joints to facilitate their motion.! He also frequent- ly mentions the ligaments by which they are con- nected. He even was not ignorant of the divisions of the fleshy part into those bundles which are called muscles. He has mentioned the spinal and the lumbar muscles.^ He has given names to two that are inserted in the lower jaw.|| He has also men- tioned the pulsations of the heart, and expressly calls it a strong muscle.^ Had he said no more, one would be almost inclined to believe that he knew the functions of these organs, but in other places he * Tlegi tcrTiav (pvmeg. t neS l T07TUV TUV Kcfl. + nsg< tsto» ruv Kctl. xv6f>U7rov. Ch. 14. § rifg< omm. Cap. ii. Aphoris. 36. || Ilfcttftav. Cap. xxxiv. neg* Cap. ii.55 LECTURE SECOND. assigns the offices, which peculiarly belong to them, to the Neura, a term under which he includes not only tendons and ligaments, but even nerves,* ar- teries, and veins. Although he has mentioned two nerves arising from the brain, and points out manyf which seem to come from the spinal marrow, with which he was acquainted, I cannot observe, in his whole works, a single expression that amounts to a proof of his being, in the least, acquainted with their use. rl his circumstance is the more extraordinary, as he makes the brain the seat of the soul, and calls it the organ by which we see, hear, feel, and reason. If the treatise in his works, entitled be genuine, which Galen denies, he seems to have examined the heart and its appendages with more attention; he notices parts which many have thought to have been the discoveries of later times, and often mentions the course of the bloodvessels in such a manner, that some have ascribed to him the most il- lustrious discovery in Anatomy,—the circulation of * nsg< Cap. xvii. -f- Ibid. cap. vii. De Alimento, cap. v. v. 4. Me- dulla Spinalis, a production of the brain, cap. v. improperly named Marrow.56 LECTURE SECOND. the blood. He indeed has spoken of a circle of the blood, nor a ]«5, and has mentioned a difficulty about fixing the place where he should begin in describing these vessels, as they form a circle without beginning and without end ; but he who dreams of seeing a discovery in this language, must not only be very ignorant of anatomy, but little acquainted with the writings of Hippocrates. In the vascular plexuses, or networks of bloodvessels, I shall show you afterwards to what he alluded in these expressions, and that he had not even the most distant idea of the circulation that was known to Harvey. So far from it, he thought that the arteries contained air, and had his doubts whether the veins commenced in the liver, the heart, or the brain. He was equally ignorant of the functions of the lungs. He imagined that animal temperature was owing to an eor a native fire residing in the left ventricle of the heart, and that breathing was necessary for the regular admission of fresh air to support the combustion, to carry off the fuliginous vapours that otherwise would have checked it, and thus at once contributed to heat and to cool the57 LECTURE SECOND. system. According to him, this air was applied by the two appendages belonging to the heart, which we, in compliance with his language, still call auricles, hut to which he assigned the office of bellows.* The ideas of digestion were not more correct: he believ ed that the stomach was a mere reservoir j that the food was prepared by putrescence or concoction ; and was ignorant of the channels by which it is af- terwards conveyed through the system. He knew, however, the seat of the bile, the secretion of the urme in the kidneys, and the two ducts by which he imagined that at least a part of it was conveyed into the bladder. I shall leave his doctrine of the four humours and four temperaments till we come to Galen. With respect to his anima, or vital principle, it appears to be the same with the k'h f 0r the native fire, and is placed in the left cavity of the heart. In all cases, even in thinking, it acts from necessity, and conducts the whole business of the system by subordinate agents, which are called w faculties or P°wers. These dynamics are parts of itself, and reside in the different organs of the * nie< cap. i. and iii. v. 5. f Ibid. cap. viii. v. 9. cap. iv. v. 19. cap. vi.58 LECTURE SECOND. body, performing the functions of seeing, bearing, tasting, touching, smelling, and the like.* But as these dynamies are parts of the anima, so the ani- ma itself is only a part of, and subject to the power of Physis, or nature. This Physis is ethereal fire, immortal, intelligent, and just: it sees and it hears, it knows what is present, and what is to come; it sufficeth for all things, and invariably perceiveth what is necessary, and when, without being taught.f Such is the anatomy and physiology of Hippo- crates, as extracted from the works that have been published under his name ; and, perhaps, from the view I have here given, you will not be disposed to entertain a high opinion of either his judgment, industry, or talents ; but, before passing such a de- cision, we ought to recollect what he said to Demo- critus,—That he seldom had attended to these sub- jects. Wherever he has bent the force of his nund, it is generally acknowledged that he there shines with unrivalled lustre; and, indeed, candour obliges me to say, that, were I now permitted to digress, to compare him with those of the age in which he » n.{. bo»«, cap. i. n.{. i«™, cap. vi. v. *♦. <* cap. vii. V. 3, 4. . ::: ch. ii. f nt?i cap. ii- and Lc Clerc, p. 1. *>•59 LECTURE SECOND. > lived, and to point out other parts of his works, where his ardour for knowledge, his indefatigable spirit for investigation, his clearness of discernment, ■ his quickness and extent of comprehension, his ! powers of reflection, and singular talent for accurate observation, appear so conspicuous, they would shew ihe had a mind that was formed for rising to i distinction and eminence in any age ; that he justly | wa§ entitled to that fame which he has acquired as £the Father of Physic, and must ever be considered, f by impartial judges, as among the first of illustrious I characters who have done honour to mankind and to science.' M , • . , . /::: * Ilf " -f. 5i'; V • ' : ■ ' f.* • ‘ i ' ^ ■ ■ - w. rilw - ,LECTURE THIRD. S’ Till the time of Hippocrates, whose Anatomy and 1 Physiology we have been examining, Physic was (considered as one of the subordinate branches of id Philosophy. Hippocrates is the earliest writer upon irecord who made it the object of a separate study. From this we may infer, that most of those who, 1 before his time, had any claim to the title of philo- sophers, must have been acquainted, more or less, i with the animal economy; but, as it would be nei- ther instructive nor amusing, to enumerate all who turned their attention to this subject, I shall re- i strict myself chiefly to those who have made disco- veries, given valuable hints, or extended the views of its utility.62 LECTURE THIRD. Among these, I must not omit Socrates of Athens. This celebrated moralist was the first who perceived the use of Anatomy in establishing the principles of natural theology, and the first who demonstrated, from the form and situation of different organs, the wisdom and foresight of the Author of Nature. The same subject was afterwards resumed, and adorned by the manly eloquence of Cicero, in his well-known work De Natura Deorum\ and has since, from the numerous and extensive improve- ments of natural theology, become a most useful, and a very interesting branch of philosophy. Plato, the friend and pupil of Socrates, a man of taste, eloquence, and genius, of luxuriant fancy, metaphysical acuteness, and possessed of all the learning of his time, though too speculative for an accurate observer, likewise bestowed a portion of his time on the animal economy. As he wanted that cool persevering patience which is necessary in physical investigations, and chose rather to fancy than trace the operations of nature, his knowledge of the structure was consequently imperfect. We must not therefore expect, in his works, to meet with any minute descriptions of particular organs; and if, in attempting to explain their functions, he sometimes approaches near to the truth, it seems toLECTURE THIRD. 63 be rather from fortunate conjecture, or the hints of others, than from actual inquiry. He imagined that the brain was a production of the spinal mar- row; that the spinal marrow—a notion that has some resemblance to truth—was the first organized part of the embryo, and the bond of union between soul and body. He calls the heart the source of the veins, and the fountain whence the blood is circulated through all the members. The blood he names the pasture of the flesh, and adds, that, for the sake of nourish- ing the remotest parts, the body is opened into a number of rivulets, like a garden well stocked with canals ; that the veins may, by this means, receive their supply of vital moisture from the heart, and convey it through all the sluices of the body. This passage is quoted by Longinus, as an instance of the sublime ; and some have dreamed that they saw in it no less than the discovery of the circulation. Plato, however, nowhere says that these rivulets returned to their fountain : the blood was carried round through the body as streams are carried round through a garden. He knew not the functions of one half of the large vessels employed in the circu- lation of the blood; for he imagined that the arte- ries were air-vessels—an opinion that led him, with64 LECTURE THIRD. Empedocles, to confound the function of respira- tion with that of perspiration, and to suppose that the skin, as well as the lungs, was an organ of breathing. As his philosophy excluded a vacuum, he believ- ed that the air which issues from the lungs, and through the pores of the skin, gave an impulse to the air surrounding the body; which ambient air, entering the lungs, returned by the pores, or, enter- ing the pores, returned by the lungs in the course of a semicircle. It is very evident, both from his reasoning and mode of expression, that he neither understood the functions of the heart, of the lungs, nor of the skin. He is the first, so far as I know, who attempts to account for the colour of the blood, and who im- putes it to the action of the fire residing in the left cavity of the heart. To explain the gradual decay of the system, he supposed that prime matter underwent its first change by passing into bodies of triangular shapes , that of these bodies the elements were formed, and constituted regular geometrical figures—the Fire a pyramid, the Earth a cube, the Air an octoedron, and the Water an icosoedron ; that as the body was composed of these elements, their angles, in the8 1 LECTURE THIRD. 65 course of time, would be blunted, and that no long- er able to retain their hold, the fabric would dissolve, and the soul, like a ship loosed from her cables, left to drive at pleasure. Another phenomenon, equally striking as this dissolution of organized bodies, and a phenomenon seldom alluded to by modern materialists, seems to have particularly attracted his attention. Pythago- ras had taught that the soul passes into new bodies, and sometimes into bodies of a different shape ; but no one thought of explaining how bodies, composed of the same materials, are infinitely diversified as to their forms, how these forms are divided into species, and how those belonging to the same species always present the same permanent and uniform characters. To account for this singular fact, Plato supposed that, besides matter and mind, there were certain substances which he calls ihu, a sort of moulds in which matter is cast, and which regularly produce the same number and variety of species in the animal, mineral, and vegetable kingdoms. As such an immense diversity of forms, belonging to bodies of the same materials, cannot be explained by any known properties of matter, and as a num- ber of our modern philosophers, unwillingly, have recourse either to a deity or a vital principle, they rLECTURE THIRD. 66 industriously avoid making any inquiry into the cause. Plato, instructed by one of the greatest and wisest of men, was a philosopher of a different de- scription : he believed not only the existence of a deity, but in the existence of a vital principle that existed before the body was formed, and that would exist after the body was mouldering in the dust. Nay, instead of one vital principle, from observing the differences between reason, instinct, and passion, he went so far as to maintain the existence of three in the same person—one for each of the great cavi- ties in the human body,—placing a rational one in the head, a courageous one in the heart, and a third, of low grovelling appetites, in the belly, to which the liver served as a mirror to reflect certain spectres or phantoms. These principles have, in many respects, a strong analogy to the dynamics of Hippocrates, while his dynamics seem to have sprung from the old super- stition, which committed the charge of each of the organs to a tutelary Genius. These genii were con- verted into dynamics, these dynamics into what the Latins call facilitates or vires; and hence the fa- culties of our metaphysicians, and the vis genetrix, the vis concoctrix, the vis medicatrix, and the other vires of our physiologists. They are known in Eng-LECTURE THIRD. 67 F 2 ilish by the name of Functions. Harvey denomi- ll nates them sensus proprii: Blumenbach has sytled jujt them the vita propria: Hippocrates subjected them to physis, or nature : Plato reduced them to three j(: souls : Galen to three dynamies or faculties ; while i Bichat has lately acquired reputation as a discoverer, a! by converting two of the three into one. The next person who falls within the subject of our present inquiry, is Aristotle, the son of a phy- I: sician, one of the family of the Asclepiades, and so k i distinguished for his genius, in the school of Plato, that this philosopher used to designate him by the name of Intellect;* yet he had neither the glow- ing fancy of Plato, which painted as it wrote, and which liked to embody and to colour thought, nor the happy talent which Socrates possessed in mak- ing the abstruser parts of philosophy familiar and easy. Socrates appeared to have made his discove- 3 ries, without an effort, as freely as if the genius of j; nature led him by the hand, removed the veil i which concealed her mysteries, and bade him listen * I till she taught him their nature, origin, and uses. ! Yet Socrates and Plato had their favourite walks. I. Aristotle trode in every path that led him to science ; * See Enfield’s Hist.LECTURE THIRD. 68 was distinguished as a critic and a physician, as a naturalist and as a metaphysician. No man had ever displayed a more clear, comprehensive, or ar- ranging mind. Persevering and ardent in pursuit of knowledge, and generalizing his ideas as he went, he grasped at the whole circle of science, and, to bring this whole under one view, tried to arrange all the various objects of thought, whether relating to matter or mind, and reduce them to a small number of classes. As ages before, and a great many of the ages succeeding, had never seen his like, his works were revered as the dictates of an oracle, and himself considered as something superi- or to the human race. Nor was it by addressing himself to the fancy, the humours, and the passions, that he acquired this singular ascendancy. Cool and dispassionate in all his inquiries, he despises trope, metaphor, and figure; has not a thought that is redundant, nor makes use of a word that is not necessary, but, quick in discernment, and accu- rate in conception, he was one of the most artful reasoners that have lived, and could as easily sub- due the mind by the superior vigour of his intellect, as his pupil, Alexander, did the nations around him, by the decided superiority of his arms. He has fallen, indeed, it must be confessed, into severalLECTURE THIRD. 69 errors; but let those who presume to laugh at his I ignorance, only reflect, that had they been placed in his situation, they might never have risen above mediocrity, and that had he enjoyed but half the i advantages which they possess, he still could have i risen among his contemporaries to the highest emi- i neuce in literary fame, and perhaps might again have dictated to the world as he once did before. Among the objects of his various research, anatomy a and natural history were not neglected. At the rc- H quest of his pupil, Alexander the Great, and assisted I by a sum of no less than 800 talents, he undertook the History of Animals, employed men in every part of the Grecian empire to collect for him as many as they could of birds, fishes, quadrupeds, and insects.* From their observations, and from his own, he has been able to arrange them into classes ; to mark their form, dispositions, and habits; their attitudes, their ] motions, and their peculiarities in the mode of ge- lierating which distinguish each. His observations ; are in general excellent, and prove that great supe- riority of intellect on which Plato, Cicero, and Pliny have bestowed such eulogiums. Although his distinctions be not always adopted, yet many arc re- * Aristoteli longe majori Viro quam vulgo creditur. Ele- menta Physiolog. Vol. I. p. 2)98. F 3LECTURE THIRD. 70 tained. Both the paths and objects of inquiry arc clearly marked out, and, at the time, his History of Animals not only diffused his spirit of enthusiasm, but abridged the labours, and furnished a number of most valuable hints to succeeding naturalists. He likewise inquired into the internal structure of animals, wrote a particular treatise on Anatomy, and gave a nomenclature for that subject, which is now lost. He appears to have examined with at- tention and minuteness, a variety of the organs; has observed their form, situation, and structure; and has furnished a number of names and distinc- tions, which are still found of considerable use. As he quotes Alcmeon, Empedocles, Democritus, whose works are lost, it is difficult to say how much he discovered by his own observation, or how much he borrowed from his assistants and his predecessors. At any rate, whatever might have been his improve- ments, we must still ascribe to the Samian philoso- pher the distinguished merit of being the first who directed his countrymen to these subjects. We come, now, to rather an unpleasant part of our task—to point out some of his defects, arising not from inferiority of talent or industry, hut from the state of science in his time. Notwithstanding his acquaintance with the structure, his physiologyLECTURE THIRD. 71 was nearly as imperfect as that of Hippocrates. He imagined that the blood was principally confined to the veins; that the arteries, besides, contained an aerial spirit, and were the immediate organs of mo- tion ; while the muscles were only organs of sensa- tion. On this hypothesis, the brain and nerves had none of these functions to perform which are now ascribed to them. In his opinion, the brain, there- fore, was a mere mass of water and earth, for exhal- ing vapours, and designed to assist the lungs and the windpipe in regulating the degrees of animal temperature. He believed that the heart was not only the foun- tain of the blood, and origin of the veins, but like- wise the origin of what he calls Nfi>£*, a term in which he includes the arteries, and sometimes the nerves, ligaments, and tendons. Placing the soul in the left ventricle, from whence it diffused its in- fluence through the arteries, he makes it also the (organ of motion, sensation, and nutrition of the dif- ferent passions, and of the vital flame. He explained respiration, or, more strictly speak ing, the mode in which respiration is performed, by supposing that the heat expanded the air contain- ed in the lungs, and that the external air rushed in to prevent a vacuum.LECTURE THIRD. 72 His notion of digestion was nearly the same as that of Hippocrates : he imagined that the stomach was a passive organ, in which the elements are boil- ed, stewed, or concocted, but that it was assisted by the heat of the liver, the spleen, and the viscera • lying in the neighbourhood; that the liver, how- ever, the spleen, and the kidneys, served also as cushions to the arteries and veins. Although he has written at some length upon generation, he has many doubts concerning the use and importance of the testes. He has asserted that they prepare the seminal fluid by a vis insita; but again seems to think that in many animals they are rather organs of convenience than use; that na- ture designed them chiefly as a counterpoise to pre- vent the retractions of what is called the spermatic cord ; that some animals, accordingly, have been able to procreate after castration, where the cord was not retracted, and that serpents and fishes, which, in his opinion, had no testes, are abundantly pro- lific. His vital principle, like that of Hippocrates, was fire of the same nature as the pure element of the stars. Its residence was the left ventricle of the heart, but, prior to conception, it lodged in the se- minal fluid of the male ; and though he be very73 LECTUltE THIRD. doubtful ou the subject, lie sometimes thinks, that, with the assistance of his formal cause, not unlike ii in its functions to the Ideal of Plato, it constructed the body, and thus formed a habitation for itself. I shall now take leave of this great man, in simply observing, that, notwithstanding his many imperfec- tions, he did much for both anatomy and natural history, and more, perhaps, than any other of the human species, excepting such as a Haller or Linnaeus, could have accomplished in similar circumstances. The general ardour which he diffused for these kinds of studies, induced many others to imitate his example. Soon after. Diodes of Carystes wrote on the method of dissecting animals; and, as the knowledge of anatomists increased, the language used by Hippocrates and Aristotle was found insuf- ficient to convey their ideas with accuracy and pre- cision. In the time of Hippocrates, the same word denoted, in a vague and general sense, a vein, a nerve, or a glandular duct; while the word neuron * signified an artery, a nerve, a ligament, or a ten- don. Praxagoras of Cos, by restricting and defin- ing the meaning of the terms employed to signify a vein and an artery, introduced an improvement in * The same word in Hippocrates is applied to a vein, the optic nerve, and the ureters.LECTURE THIRD. 74 the mode of conveying accurate ideas, of much more importance than one would at first be apt to sup- pose. Among the most zealous and the most illustri- ous encouragers of anatomy, and of natural history, it would be inexcusable to omit the name of Alex- ander the Great. It was at his particular request, and at his expense, that Aristotle undertook the History of Animals. Besides, his example induced other sovereigns to patronize and encourage these studies. Accordingly, his views were afterwards adopted, and eagerly pursued, by his successors, the Ptolemies in Egypt; and it was alone, through their princely interference, that anatomists first had an opportunity of examining the structure of the human body : and, certainly, without such a pro- tection, no private individual could have ventured with safety. For it appears, from a passage of Eu- ripides, quoted by Riolan* that the Greeks enter- tained the same prejudices as the Jews, Egyptians, and other nations, against the dissection of their own species. The principal anatomist employed by the Ptole- mies, was Herophilus of Chalcedon, or, if we be- • Riolan, Antliropag. Lib. I. cap. xiii. quoted by Portal, Vol. I. p. 77-LECTURE THIRD. 75 lieve Galen of Carthage, of Chalcedon or Car- thage. He is allowed to have been one of the pupils of Praxagoras, and to have principally directed his attention to the study of the brain, the spinal mar- row, and the nerves that issue from them. Hippo- crates had mentioned two membranes enveloping the brain ; Aristotle its division into two halves— a cavity in the middle, and a smaller brain in the back of the head. Herophilus describes, with addi- tional accuracy, all they had seen, and, besides, a variety of other parts which they had overlooked. Yet his more extended knowledge of these organs was nothing to his great discovery of their functions, which justly constitutes one of the eras in the his- tory of anatomy. Instead of the brain, the spinal marrow, and the nerves that issue from them, being mere masses of water and earth for exhaling va- pour, as Aristotle thought, Herophilus demonstrat- ed that they were the organs from which all the rest derive their life, sensation, and motion. Nor did he confine his attention to these : he character- ized the arteries and veins by the thickness of their coats j was the first among the Greeks wrho wrote a particular treatise on the pulse; strongly recom- mending geometry and music to those who would presume to form a prognosis from the differentLECTURE THIRD. 76 varieties of its pulsations. He was also the first who founded a medical school at Alexandria, and the first anatomist who taught osteology from the human skeleton.* About his time flourished likewise Erasistratus of Ceos, a disciple of Chrysippus, and a relation of the family of Aristotle. He is mentioned as one of the principal physicians at the court of Antio- chus, in Syria, and whether patronized by that prince, or by one of the Ptolemies, he, as well as Herophilus, had frequent permission to examine the bodies of condemned criminals. He was ac- quainted with the functions of the brain ; says that its different cavities communicate ; speaks of the distribution of the nerves, and considers them as the primary organs of sense and motion. Galen allows that he first discovered the valves of the heart, and those which are placed at the commence- ment of the two great arteries. But if Galen be correct, that treatise entitled in the works of Hippocrates, and in which these organs are men- tioned, cannot be genuine. He is the first who asserted that digestion is performed by the action of the stomach, and the next to Herophilus who * See Lc Clerc, p. 130. Sec also Douglas.77 LECTURE THIRD. saw vessels conveying the chyme from the intestines ; though both saw them as if they saw them not; neither tracing their connections, following their course, nor attempting to explain their peculiar functions. He was more accurate with regard to the liver, and asserted that the blood was distribut- ed through it for the secretion of the bile. He con- futed also an absurd opinion which Plato had adopt- ed, from his mistaking a passage of Hippocrates, that a portion of drink passed through the wind- pipe into the lungs. In a fragment of his works quoted by Galen, from whom we have nearly all the information that we possess of him, or Herophilus, he speaks of a happy disposition of the muscles for the movement * of the limbs. From this we may presume, that the function of the muscles was then known ; and, as neither he nor Herophilus have claimed the disco- very, that it also was known before their time. The vague manner in which Hippocrates writes on this subject; his ascribing the power of motion to the ligaments, and his saying that the muscles of the lower jaw are moved with the bone, preclude the idea of his being in the least acquainted with their functions. His attempt, however, to explain the phenomena of animal motions, is an evident proof78 LECTUllE THIRD. that, in his opinion, the cause was worthy of inves- tigation ; and it is rather surprising that he, but particularly Aristotle, who considered the explana- tion of these motions of so much importance, that he has written two books on the subject, should, notwithstanding, be ignorant of the organs from which they more immediately, and I almost might say, obviously proceeded. But indeed the igno- rance of Aristotle here, is another proof of how little the structure had been investigated in his time : the motions were then ascribed to the ^ eura, and Neura signified, indifferently, ligaments, ten- dons, or arteries. The arteries were the neura to which Aristotle was naturally led to ascribe the mo- tions. Their pulsations were felt through almost every part of the system ; they had their origin in the left ventricle, where Hippocrates had placed the fountain of life and of animal heat; and, being ge- nerally found empty at death, they were supposed to contain only certain vital and aerial spirits, which regularly flowing from the fountain of life, diffused heat, animation, and motion, through the whole members. This variety of functions ascribed to the arteries, you will easily perceive, superseded the functions of the brain and muscles, and fully ex- plains the singular notions which Aristotle enter-79 LECTURE THIRD. tallied of the brain and heart. Fortunately for anatomy, these notions were soon laid aside for others that were founded on repeated dissection and X actual observation. Aristotle, preceptor to the Prince of Macedon, had, at least by his works, excited a very strong- curiosity to investigate the causes of these animal motions. Accordingly, one Lycus of Macedon, a very early writer, Anatomicus Antiquissimus he is called, turned his principal attention to this subject, and at last made the important discovery, that all these motions are performed by the muscles. In a voluminous work on Myology, which he afterwards published, he assigns four muscles to the eye, and though this work was but little known during his lifetime, it, according to Galen, had a wide circu- lation after his death, notwithstanding the deficien- cies that might have been expected in a first at- i tempt. From having restricted myself in these Lectures, to the leading improvements in anatomy and physi- ology, I cannot return to the disciples of the Alex- andrian school, which, though it produced many distinguished characters in physic and surgery, yet ' as their lives are marked by no discoveries in these f two branches, I am under the necessity of passing80 LECTURE THIRD. from Lycus, over a period of nearly three centuries, till we come to Marinus. This author lived in the first century, under the emperor Nero, and, in order to supply the deficien- cies of Lycus, resumed the subject of myology, carried it to a higher degree of perfection, and was the first who suggested the real use of those bodies which we now call Glands. Soon after, about the beginning of the second century, Rufus Ephesius, either from observation or dissection, was led to conclude, that the arteries, in their natural state, did, besides air, contain also a quantity of blood. Some blood had also been found in them by Erasistratus, but, rather than renounce the old and generally received hypothesis, that they were air-vessels, he endeavoured to account for the appearance, by supposing a fact, of the truth of which he was not aware, that the veins and ar- teries communicated at their extremities, and that when the arteries were emptied of their air, the blood rushed from the branches of the veins, to pre- vent a vacuum, but was always attended with some morbid effects on the system. The ideas on ana- tomy had again accumulated, so as to require some improvements on the language; Rufus Ephesius was, therefore, led to compose a work, that is still81 LECTURE THIRD. extant, entitled Onomasia, in which he enumerates and defines the terms that had been used by his predecessors : and we learn from him, that, although Herophilus and Erasistratus had ascertained the functions of the nerves, they still allowed the word Neura, by which they were expressed, to retain the same various meanings which it had before ; con- tenting themselves with characterizing the species they intended, by particular epithets. His Ono- masia may also he considered as the best view of the state of anatomy before Galen. The illustrious Galen was a native of Pergamus in Lesser Asia, was-bora in the time of the Empe- ror Adrian, and flourished under Trajan, Marcus Antoninus, and some of their successors. He was a person of uncommon genius, great industry, and profound erudition. Being early initiated in gene- ral literature and the fine arts, and having studied with unusual diligence in all the philosophical schools of his time, he at last conceived a passion for phy- sic, and, to prosecute his studies, went to Alexan- dria, the most celebrated seminary of that kind then in the world. He there had opportunities of fre- quently examining the human skeleton, but, finding that the practice of dissecting the human body had been laid aside, to supply the deficiency, he employ-82 I/ECTURE THIRD. ed himself in dissecting animals that bore the near- est resemblance to man, and in comparing their structure with that of birds, quadrupeds, and fishes. He confesses that he never had dissected insects or minute animals, although, with a view to under- stand the functions, he frequently had opened ani- mals alive. Being a man of affluence and rank, and enjoying all the possible advantages of a liberal education, extensive reading, and much travelling, he has been able to collect the information of all his predecessors; and, from great industry, and much observation, has given a fuller description of the bones, the ligaments, the muscles, the nerves, the bloodvessels, and viscera, than any preceding author on the subject. Portal is so partial to his Anatomy, that he thinks it superior to a great many elementary books of a later date, but particularly to many of the present day, and requests us only to draw the comparison, to be convinced of the just- ness of a criticism which is so disgraceful to our modern compilers, and even humiliating to the age in which they live. It might here be improper to mention any of his lesser discoveries among the leading facts of the science. I shall, therefore, confine myself to a few which are of importance. He was, next to Aris- totle, the first who doubted, and completely over-83 LECTURE THIRD. u threw the old and generally received opinion, that the arteries were air-vessels,—an opinion that car- ried along with it, in its fall, systems of pathology and of physiology that had lasted for ages, and be- come venerable even from their antiquity. Next to Aristotle, he is also the first who mentioned a com- munication between the branches of the veins and arteries, in the substance of the lungs, and a pas- sage of the blood, by that communication, from the right to the left ventricle of the heart;—the first who mentioned the peculiar structure of the foetal heart; and the first who clearly demonstrated the larynx at the top of the wind-pipe, and showed it to be the organ of voice. His physiology, more generally known by the title De Usu Portium, composes a separate treatise. It was intended as a hymn to the Creator; does much honour to his head and to his heart, and, from numerous displays which are there made of divine power, wisdom, and beneficence, he boasts of having presented to the Deity, an offering more acceptable than hecatombs of oxen. His notion of the anima or vital principle, that regulates the whole economy of the system, is borrowed from Plato’s Three Souls. He has three spirits, which are the instruments of three faculties,-—the natural, ani- g 284 LECTURE THIRD. mal, and vital. The natural faculty occupies the liver, and presides over growth, nutrition, and ge- neration ; the vital faculty is placed in the heart, and is made to distribute, through the channels of the arteries, life and heat ; the animal faculty, whose residence is the brain, regulates the whole, and conveys, through the medium of the nerves, sensation and motion. Besides these, he has other faculties, of inferior note, whose office is limited to particular organs, the same as the sensus proprii of Harvey, or as the vitce proprice of Blumenbaeh, whose modern discovery consists merely in the change of name ; for these vitce, as well as the two vitce of Bichat, were, excepting the names, just as well known to the ancients as the four tempera- ments. Of these temperaments, which still make a figure in modern pathology, I promised, in one of my preceding lectures, to take some notice when I came to Galen. Most of you know that the ancient mythologists, in trying to explain how the world was originally formed out of chaos, made use of four elements,—fire, air, earth, and water ; and four qua- lities,—hot, cold, dry, and moist. As these were the great agents in nature, and, at that time, found ne- cessary to explain every phenomenon, it was not85 LECTURE THIRD. to be wondered that they likewise should be called in to explain the functions of the human body. The four qualities were accordingly given to four humours,—a sort of four secondary elements that were supposed to exist in the body. According to Hippocrates,* these were bile, blood, phlegm, and water; or, as he more generally seems to think, 'blood, phlegm, a yellow bile, and a black bile. To each of these, he, or rather his predecessors, for they were known before his time, gave two of the quali- ties which we have mentioned, so that the blood was hot and moist, the phlegm cold and moist, the yellow bile hot and dry, and the black bile cold and dry. But, to these qualities, Hippocrates added a great many others, particularly the sweet, the salt, the bitter, and austere. He made, besides, his humours and qualities to vary greatly in their proportions, and his qualities in their degrees of intensity, and supposed these variations to arise from a prodigious number of circumstances ; from every difference of age or sex ; from the difference of the sun, moon, and planets, in every possible position and aspect;f from the changes of the r r - ’• iL■ ">• * De Morbis, lib, iv. cap. 25, v. 28. f See Index of Hippocrates, in Astra, Lima, Sol, and the 'H parts referred to. G 386 LECTURE THIRD. season, and from every slight variation of the weather. The changes arising in this way, from the various combinations, proportions, and degrees of four humours and eight qualities, to make no more of them, can easily be shewn to amount at least to four hundred and seventy-nine millions, one thousand, and six hundred ; and yet to practice with infallible success, it was necessary to know and distinguish each of these numerous changes. But, as that was impossible, Hippocrates chiefly directed his attention to four changes, produced by the varying proportions of the humours. These changes were called temperaments, and were san- guineous, phlegmatic, bilious, or melancholic, ac- cording to the humour that predominated at the time; and were limited to four, in order to corre- spond with the four elements, the four great ages of the world, the four periods of man’s life, the four seasons of the year, and, above all, with the meaning of Tetractys, a mystical word, in the language of Pythagoras, that signifies a quaternion or group of four. That Hippocrates should have embraced these opinions, considering the schools in which he was educated, or that Galen should have followed him, from the high veneration which he always entertain- ed for the divine old man, is not surprising; but what87 LECTURE THIRD. excuse cau we possibly bring for some modern patho- logists, who, after entirely rejecting the sense of these ancient writers, would sooner renounce their re- ligious creed than part with the terms in which these antiquated notions are expressed ? But leaving this fantastic pathology, I shall now re- turn to those objects in which we are more interested. The vast collection of historical, medical, and anato- mical facts, contained in the works of Galen, arrang- ed with all the correctness of a critic, and with all the abilities of the first and most accomplished scholar of his time, made such an impression on the minds of his followers, that, rather than excite them to emula- tion, it inspired them with a sort of reverence and awe. For many ages there was no person who pre- sumed to dissent from him, who dared to equal him, and far less to excel him. Physicians, sur- geons, and anatomists, had no ambition beyond that of studying his works, abridging, copying, or com- menting on them. They fell into the hands of the Arabians at the taking of Alexandria in 640. They too began to admire them, and translated them into their vernacular language, but, without thinking of bringing his descriptions to the test of experiment, or of making any additional improvements, became as servile imitators as others. In the east, however,LECTUltE THIRD. 88 his name and reputation, in this way, continued to flourish, while the translation of the seat of empire from Rome to Byzantium, and the future inroads of barbarous nations, had well nigh extinguished his memory in the west. For a period, therefore, of considerably more than a thousand years, no dis- coveries were made in anatomy that deserve to be mentioned in this place. We principally owe the recovery of his works, the revival of anatomy, and literature in general, to one of those singular men- tal contagions, which, from the smallest and most trifling beginnings, seize on the mind of every in- dividual, and as rapidly spread over nations and empires as the plague or influenza which attacks our bodies: I allude to that mental contagion which produced the Crusades. In these expeditions, which continued occasionally for some hundred years, many adventurers became acquainted with Arabian literature and the writings of Galen, and, through this channel, Anatomy again found its way into the west, where it first was cultivated by one Mundinus, a Milanese. He had got acquainted with the writings of Galen through the impure me- dium of an Arabian translation, and, wishing to illustrate the descriptions of the Grecian by actual dissection, he made several remarks ot his own, and,89 LECTURE THIRD. about the year 1315, published the result of his in- quiries under the form of a regular system. The attempt was rude, and many of the terms which he used were Arabic, but its novelty attracted ge- neral notice, and, as there was nothing of the kind to equal it in any language that was understood, it !was soon held in so great estimation, that the sta- tutes of Padua, for some time, allowed no other system to be taught. It certainly contributed to raise a spirit for anatomical inquiries; and, for some time after, one of the surest roads to fame was to ■ publish it with commentaries. Still, however, the reviving genius of Greece was feeble, until it receiv- ed an accession of vigour in 1453, when Constanti- nople was taken by the Turks. Upon that catas- trophe, Theodore Gaza, Argynophilus, and others, fled to the west, and took refuge in Italy, where Emanuel Chrysoloras had been employed in diffus- ing knowledge some time before. These learned men carried along with them a number of valuable Greek manuscripts, and rescued from obilvion a great many others that had lain buried in the libraries of the west. About the end of the same century, this new spirit received another additional impulse from the discovery of the art of printing ; and, about the beginning of the sixteenth century,90 LECTURE THIRD. many eminent anatomists arose, not only in Italy, but in Germany and France. Among these, James Berengarius of Carpi, and professor at Bononia, who had dissected a great many bodies, publish- ed a system of such reputation, that he was call- ed the Restorer of Anatomy, while his contempo- rary, Charles Stephans, brother to the printer, and the intimate friend of our countryman Buchanan, greatly improved that branch of anatomy which treats of the ligaments and bones : Fernelius, that branch which treats of the bloodvessels ; and Gonthier Andernach, that which treats of the muscles. But still improvement was in some measure checked by the high veneration that was paid to Galen; for he still continued the sole dictator in the schools both of Anatomy and Physic, until Andrew Vesalius boldly presumed to question his authority. This very extraordinary man was a native of Brussels, of a bold, keen, enterprizing disposition. Even when a boy, he showed a most determined passion for anatomy, and was indefatigable in what he undertook. Enjoying likewise the many advan- tages of an easy fortune, he neglected none of those opportunities which it afforded to cultivate his mind, and to qualify himself for the farther prosecution of those studies to which nature had led him by the91 LECTURE THIRD. most unexampled and ardent enthusiasm. In a short time he made himself acquainted with the an- cient Hebrew; and was such a master in Greek 3 and Arabic, that before he was twenty, he read the works of Avicenna and Galen in the original ; spoke the Greek even with facility, and wrote La- tin with more ease, and with more elegance, than any of his time. Early versant in practical anatomy, robbing the gibbets, regardless of the grave, and dissecting bodies even in his bed-chamber, he soon perceived, that many descriptions to be found in Ga- len, had been taken from quadrupeds; and, not dis- posed to conceal his acquirements, he began openly to dispute the authority, to correct the mistakes, and to censure the errors of the Grecian master, and finally resolved to favour the world with an anatomical system of his own. Accordingly, in the twenty-fifth year of his age, having already given public lectures in several universities, he commenced his great and immortal work, and, after overcoming a number of difficulties, which, to any other person, would have been insurmountable, he finished it in the course of three years. In point of arrangement, copiousness, and accuracy, nothing, as yet, had ever appeared so complete on Anatomy ; but as it con- tained many severe censures on Galen, this roused92 LECTURE THIRD. the indignation of his numerous admirers, who, ex- amining Vesalius with the eagerness of critics, dis- covered similar mistakes in himself, and probably not a few of their own. The spirit of controversy, which was thus raised, only led to more accurate inquiry. The work of Vesalius remained unrivalled, and at last was successful in dispelling that enchant- ment in which an excessive veneration for Galen had held anatomists for so many ages. In his time, the passage of the blood from the right to the left ventricle of the heart was unknown. Vesalius demonstrated that it could not pass, as had been supposed, through the septum that divides them: anatomists, therefore, were under the neces- sity of looking out for some other way. His pupil, Columbus,* * * § endeavoured to demonstrate, by a pro- cess of reasoning, that it went through the lungs ; and something of the kind had also been insinuated by Galen^f and afterwards by Nemesius, bishop of Emessa but was plainly asserted by Vasseur or Vas- seus,aFrenchman,§ andmore plainly still by Servetus, * Columbus De Re Anatomica, lib. xi. cap. 2. -f- The passage of Galen is quoted by Harvey. + Still more obscurely than by Galen. See 24 nij< z<Vvyttai>, or de Pulsibus. Nemesius ring* <t>u<r»«j uy6^ux»v. § The passage of Vasseus is cited by Portal.93 LECTURE THIRD. a Spaniard.* This passage of the blood through the substance of the lungs, from the right to the left ventricle of the heart, has received the name of the « .Lesser Circulation. It was well known to Andrew Caesalpinus, an Italian anatomist, who went still farther, and asserted, that the blood which issues from the left ventricle of the heart, returns to the right by means of the veins ramified through the system. Unfortunately, his opinion, though per- fectly correct, was founded on hypothesis as much as on observation ; and his having embraced a no- tion of Aristotle’s, that the blood flows backwards and forwards in the same vessels, like the tides of Euripus between Attica and Euboea, prevented him from making any farther discovery. But a great discovery was not far distant. Very nearly about this time, Fabricius ab Aqua Pendente, a professor of Padua, induced by some appearances which he saw in the arm, upon tying the ligature in venesection, laid open the whole course of a vein ; and, in 1574, observed certain membranes within it, which he called Ostiola, or Little Doors. These membranes, as he thought, having accounted for the appearances which he saw in the arm, he pro- * The passage cited by Portal.LECTURE THIRD. 94 ceeded to lay open some other veins, when he per- t . ceived similar membranes in all the veins of the: i extremities, but none in the veins which run through 11 the trunk. Having at last frequently observed and i a examined these membranes, he published an account; a of them, describing their form, situation and struc- • qj ture, and the distances at which they are generally ' 1 placed from each other in the course of the veins.. In this publication, expressing his wonder that no > j person had seen them before him, it was found,, that nearly a century before, they had been traced i * through several veins of the extremities by Jacobus t Sylvius, mentioned by Stephans, under the name of apophyses venarum, and their function assign- I ed, to prevent the reflux of the venous blood. Nay, in the year in which Fabricius made the discovery, they were seen by Cannanus, who afterwards point- ed them out to Vesalius. Fabricius, however, pro- bably ignorant of these circumstances, laid claim to the whole merit of the discovery, and while he was continuing to demonstrate them in liis class, with all the enthusiasm which discovery inspires, a young Englishman, of the name of Harvey, arrived at Pa- dua. The singular novelty of these membranes very soon attracted his attention, and filled him with a generous emulation and ardour, to find outLECTURE THIRD. 95 their uses. Fabricius had said, that they were to the veins what joinings or knots are to plants of vervain and other vegetables: they served to mode- rate the current of the blood, as it flowed backwards and forwards in their course. His pupil, dissatis- fied with this explanation, could not help suspect- ing that they performed' a different office, and of much more importance. Having, therefore, taken his degree at Padua, and returned to England, he became anxious to resume the subject. According- ly, procuring a numer of animals, and opening them alive, he, at last, completely ascertained the func- tions of the venous membranes, which, from forcing the blood always to flow in the same direction, in the same vessels, he denominated Valves: and thence was led, as he told Mr Boyle, to the noblest discovery that is known in anatomy—the circula- tion of the blood. It was made public in 1628, and I need not mention the great changes which it necessarily introduced into all our reasonings on the animal economy. The consequences which it had with respect to himself, are not, perhaps, so gene- rally known. Who could have imagined that the first effects of a discovery, which has since procured him the epithet Immortal, could have been a considerable96 LECTURE THIRD. I diminution of his practice, and the violent op- position of many of his fellows in the Royal Col- lege of Physicians of London ? It has been observ- ed, that no man above forty years of age, at that time, was made a convert to the new doctrine. Pre- o judice and envy everywhere opposed it. Their first attempt was to deny it; and when they discovered that this was impossible, they next laboured to find it in Hippocrates: but being here, likewise, disap- pointed, they went to Plato, from Plato to Neme- sius, bishop of Emessa, from Nemesius to one Ruef, a Swiss, who had not even dreamed of the matter, and from Ruef, at last, to Andrew Caesalpinus, where they found themselves to be equally mistaken. Chagrined now, and provoked with disappointment, they next began to detract from its merit: They said the foundation was laid by Fabricius ab Aqua Pendente, and that little more was left for Harvey to do than to dress it up into a system, which re- quired no extraordinary talents. They have intro- duced him with Copernicus and Columbus, to show that his merit, as a discoverer, was comparatively low. They have added, that none of his writings show him to have been a man of uncommon abili- ties, and say, it were easy to quote many passages which bring him nearly to a level with the lest of97 LECTURE THIRD. mankind. They have even insinuated that he was chargeable with obstinacy and envy ; and observed, that though he lived almost thirty years after Asel- lius published the Lacteals, yet to the last he seem- ed to think that no such vessels existed. The best confutation of all these invidious and unmanly charges are his own works, JDe Motu Cordis, et Generatione Animalium,—works which will ever perpetuate his name in the annals of fame, procure him the distinguished character of Genius, and place him at a height that is far beyond the reach of those poisoned darts of invidious detraction. H \H 2 LECTURE FOURTH. Having already given an account of the leading- discoveries which ascertained the functions of the muscles, the nerves, the brain, the spinal marrow, the heart, and the bloodvessels, we proceed now to mention another, in many respects more extraordi- nary,—I mean the discovery of a great and impor- tant system of vessels that had seldom been even partially seen, and by most anatomists was not sup- posed even to exist. All anatomists had traced the food from the mouth to the stomach, and from the stomach through the different windings of the intestines; but no one had ever observed a single passage by which the nutritious part of the aliment could get into the system. They had seen, indeed,100 LECTURE FOURTH. a number of veins spreading on the tube, particular- ly on tlie part which is called Intestine; and, from seeing no other, except the concomitant branches of arteries, they naturally concluded, that the veins were the vessels that conveyed the chyle; and as these, branching on the stomach and intestines, end in the liver, they gave to that viscus the office of changing this chyle into blood, and called it the Organ of Sanguification. This explanation was always considered as completely satisfactory till 1622, when Asellius, an Italian doctor of Pavia, chancing to open a live dog, observed vessels of a different nature, all commencing from the intes- tines, and containing a fluid of a white colour. Their white appearance led him, at first, to suppose they were nerves, but, upon farther and stricter inquiry, he saw they were the vessels destined by nature to convey the chyle, traced them as far as a large gland, or cluster of glands, which he calls Pancreas, and, from the white colour of their fluid, denominated them Lacteals. Perceiving, likewise, a few on the liver, and believing the general notions of its func- tions, he naturally supposed that they went to that gland, and calls them its Arms, by which it sucks up the chyle like leeches. This comparison has101 LECTURE FOURTH. given rise to a modern hypothesis, pretending to be both original and new, hut which, like too many others of the present day, is mera vox et praeterea nihil. I shall likewise take notice of another cir- cumstance, which would certainly appear a most singular phenomenon in our time. Asellius was so [modest as to claim no merit from the discovery : he ascribes his good fortune to chance ; confesses that Erasistratus had seen the like vessels in a kid, but mistook them for arteries, and supposed that, at times, they contained air. I need not observe that this discovery of Asel- lius was imperfect: he only supposed that they went I to the liver, and had never traced them to the fountain of the blood. This part was reserved for Pecquet, an anatomist of France, who, thirty years after, on opening the heart of another live dog, saw a whitish fluid mixing with the blood, and flowing on with a constant stream. Examining the source whence it came, he was led to discover the large trunk in which all the vessels of Asellius terminat- ed ; and, when he published, was as modest as Asellius, in cautioning his reader not to ascribe this important discovery to his superior acuteness or diligence, nor to blame the ancients for neglect or inaccuracy, declaring candidly, that his merit here H 3LECTURE FOURTH. 102 was comparatively small, and that the whole was owing to chance, and the kindness of Providence. We can hardly imagine that a man so modest and unassuming, would, had he known it, have studi- ously concealed the discovery of Eustachius, who, long before, had described the same vessel in a horse, but neither knew its origin, nor use, the knowledge of which formed the important discovery of Pecquet. Anatomists again would have been contented with what they had seen, and would not have look- ed for any more vessels to explain the functions of the animal system, had not Olaus Rudbeck, a Swede,* Thomas Bartholine, a Dane,f and Jolyffe, an Englishman, on opening the bodies of more live dogs, accidentally discovered numerous vessels of a like kind, arising from various parts of the body, and ending, along with the lacteals of Asellius, in the trunk of Pecquet4 Bartholine saw them on the liver of a fish, and Dr. Monro and Mr. Hewson have since demonstrated them in a variety of birds and fishes. In short, they are found to be a part of the animal system—the lymphatic veins which accompany the lymphatic series of arteries. From * 1651. He saw likewise tlie thoracic duct. -)• 1651-2. Ilis work came out in 1652. J; His work appeared in 1653.LECTURE FOURTH. 108 an opinion that they were branches of the same system with the lacteals of Asellius, they were named by Bartholine, vasa lactea, and, from the nature of the fluid which they contained, vasa se- rosa, vasa lymphatica, and ductus aquosi. The great importance of these discoveries was generally acknowledged—the difficulty of making them can only be conceived by those who are somewhat ac- quainted with the subject. The lymphatics or lac- teals can scarcely be seen, even with the microscope, but when they are distended with fluids ; and they seldom contain any fluids at all, except during the life of the animal, or a short time after its death. We ought not, therefore, to be much surprised if they escaped the observation of anatomists for so many ages, nor wonder, when the lymphatics were discovered, that physiologists should have found it difficult to assign their use. The lacteals of Asel- lius spoke for themselves : they were the channels by which nourishment was conveyed into the system. But what nourishment could vessels convey that arose from the very points of the extremities ? Among various opinions, it was thought by Rud- beck and Bartholine, themselves, that, by suction or absorption, they were meant to convey back to the heart, all the fluids that had flowed in the smallerLECTURE FOURTH. 104 branches of arteries, or that wandered from the course of the circulation, as known to Harvey, and which were not returned by the red veins. Nor was the opinion, that such an absorption was regularly taking place in all parts of the animal body, any new idea in anatomy: it was the general and well- known doctrine of the ancients, as is plainly proved by Kaaw Boerhaave, in his Perspiratio Dicta Hip- pocrati. The office, however, was ascribed to the larger or red veins. But it being obvious that the vessels of Asellius performed the office that had been ascribed to the red veins of the intestines, Rudbeck and Bartholine claimed the same privilege for their lymphatics in all the other parts of the system ; while Vieussenius, a professor at Montpe- lier, endeavoured to show, by mercurial frictions, and from the effects of bathing in water, that very probably many of these vessels opened towards the surface, where many lymphatic arteries terminated. Similar ideas of their nature and functions had oc- curred to Glisson, to Willis, to Hoffman, and to M. Noquez, a French anatomist, who calls them, as early as 1737, Conduits Absorbents, or Absorb- ing Vessels. And the same doctrine has been far- ther confirmed by two very distinguished anato- mists,—the late Dr. Hunter of London, and theLECTURE FOURTH. 105 late Dr. Monro of Edinburgh, who, somehow or other, have warmly disputed about the merit of suggesting a thought that occurred to anatomists before they were born. Yet they both have had the merit of arranging the scattered ideas on the subject into a system—a merit of no inferior degree thought Dr. Hunter, when that merit was his own, but a merit implying no more than ordinary talents, when it was considered the only merit of Harvey. As this system of absorbents or lymphatic veins is the last great and leading discovery made in Ana- tomy by means of dissection, before we proceed to those which have been made by the application of geometry and chemistry, we shall take a view of the principal improvements that have been introduced in the way of demonstration. As verbal descrip- tions do not always convey accurate ideas of the things described, surgeons and anatomists early thought of supplying the defect by pictures or figures. This discovery, by some, has been ascribed to the celebiated Italian, Leonardo da Vinci, not only a philosopher, but a painter and anatomist, who lived about the time that engraving was in- vented, and died in the beginning of the sixteenth century; but, however great his merit might be in other respects, he is not entitled to this honour.106 LECTURE FOURTH. Moschion gave some surgical figures in the third century; and Guy de Chauliac, who flourished in the fourteenth, says that Hermondaville, who lived before him, taught anatomy from figures, at Mont- pelier. But whether anatomy was taught so or not, it is plain, from the expression of Guy de Chauliac, that anatomical figures were used in his time ; and Montagnana, who, according to Portal, flourished about 1440, is the author of an anatomical work, accompanied with some excellent plates. About the beginning of the sixteenth century, when the art of engraving was not only known, but generally dif- fused, almost every book on anatomy was accompa- nied with figures; of these we may mention the works of Peiligh, Hund, Carpi, Stephans, Dryan- der, Sabio, Vesalius, Viringus. Such figures are exceedingly useful when the ori- ginals are not to be had ; but, to study plates when the originals may be procured, is so far from be- speaking a taste for anatomy, that it scarcely im- plies an ordinary share of common understanding. Even the best are only aids in studying the origi- nals ; but when they are substituted for the origi- nals, their intention is perverted—they serve only to mislead, to diffuse error, and to perpetuate it. About the middle of the sixteenth century another acquisition was made in anatomy by the use of theLECTURE FOURTH. 107 microscope. It was first used by the accurate Eus- tachius, afterwards employed by Grew and Malpi- ghi, in illustrating the structure and economy of plants, and also by the latter in demonstrating parts of the animal system. To this instrument we are indebted for many discoveries of Swammerdam, Liewenhoeck, Baker, Trembley, Lyonet, and Bon- net, and for two or three foolish and absurd theo- ries that are evidently founded on optical decep- tions, particularly a theory of animalcula in the se- minal fluid; of muscular motion, founded on the structure of the ultimate fibres ; and a third about the intimate structure of nerves. The last improvement which I shall mention of this kind, is the art of Injection.* It had always been found a tedious operation to dissect proper- ly the smaller branches of collapsed bloodvessels. Some assistance was therefore necessary; and, for that reason, Jacobus Sylvius, the master of Vesa- lius, was wont to fill them with a coloured liquor. Eustachiusf adopted a similar plan in examining * With respect to injections, see Portal, Vol. I. p. 633-4-G Vol. II. p. 261. Vol. VI. p. 162, &c. f Eustachius injected, dried, and macerated his prepara- tions, Portal, Vol. I. p. 633-4. For Boyle, see Shaw’s Abridge- ment of his Works, Vol. I. p. 30. De Graaf’s Work, De Si-LECTURE FOURTH. 108 the kidneys ; and a like device, on some occasions, was practised by Glisson, Bellini, Willis, Varolius, Mayow,* while Riolin was accustomed to inflate them with air. Among these the Honourable Mr. Boyle deserves likewise to be particularly mention- ed. He had seen several dried preparations, and proposes different kinds of injections that would af- terwards harden and preserve the veins and arte- ries plump. Portal informs us that something of this kind was employed by Bellini. At last De Graaf, an anatomist of Hollond, contrived conve- nient instruments, and, publishing his account of them in 1664, claimed the whole merit of the dis- covery. What remained now to be sought was a proper injection. Marcellus Malpighi had employ- ed quicksilver ; and De Graaf mentions only a number of tinctures which all flowed out on the least puncture or rupture of the vessels. His coun- tryman, Swammerdam, saw the defect, employed phone, appeared in 1669. In the same year Mayow’s Work appeared at Oxford, where he speaks of having injected the lungs. See Mariget Bibliothec in Mayow. Swammerdam, in Proilromum, p. 38, speaks of his preparation. Anthony Mack, who injected the lymphatics at Leyden in 1691, uses the phrase, mercurius noster, as if he had been the first that used it. See Aderog. p. 19. * Mayow, De Respiratione, 261.LECTURE FOURTH. 109 wax, which hardens upon cooling, and, supposing himself the first who made use of such a material in the way of injection, to secure the reputation of such an invention, sent one of his preparations to the Royal Society of London in 1672. His friend, Frederick Ruysch, carried the art to the highest per- fection to which it has arrived, made a number of valuable discoveries, and, by maceration, or rather corrosion, exhibited clusters of small vessels crowd- ed together, yet all in situation, and without any interposing substance. The numerous advantages that anatomy has de- rived from the art of injection, cannot well be de- scribed in a general Lecture. You will be fully j convinced of its use when we come to that part of the course which treats of the bloodvessels. From the general view of the discoveries made by dissection, we shall now proceed to enumerate those which have been made by the application of the mechanical and chemical philosophy, and shall I afterwards inquire, how far these are sufficient to explain the several phenomena of organized bodies. With respect to that branch of philosophy that is called Mechanical, the ancients could suppose no other way by which the appearances of material substances could be explained. So partial was Fy-110 LECTURE FOURTH. tliagoras to this science, that in morals and theo- logy he expresses himself in the language of geo- metry ; and, if the letter to Thessalus be genuine, Hippocratus himself has strongly recommended geo- metry and numbers to the surgeon and physician, , and mentioned the cases in which they might be useful. Plato imagined that God himself was al- ways geometrizing, and has asserted that the four elements are composed of regular geometrical fi- gures. Galen accounted for a number of diseases, from certain changes in the number, magnitude, figure, situation, the velocity, momentum, and ad- hesion of the parts. And Renatus de Cartes, an eminent philospher and mathematician, biassed by some particular hypothesis, was led to infer, that the lower animals were mere machines. These opinions were well calculated, not only to warrant, but to invite the application of geometry. At an early period, therefore, of modern improve- ment, Fabricius cib Aqua Pendente, partially ap- plied mathematical reasoning to explain the action of some of the muscles. His plan was followed by Steno and others, and at last more successfully ex- ecuted by the ingenious Borelli, in his valuable work De Motu Animalium. Till his time, it was generally believed, that, in muscular action, natureLECTURE FOURTH. Ill produced a great force by a small effort, and that she did so by certain levers or mechanical powers, supposed to exist in the muscles or tendons. Bo- relli showed that no such power existed in either; that the bones, in general, were the levers of the muscles ; and that these levers were of a very differ- ent form from what had been imagined. In short he demonstrated, from the general direction and ob- liquity of the muscles, with respeetto the bones, from the place of their insertions near to the joints, and from the situation of these insertions between the fulcrum and the resistance, that nature was prodigal of muscular power, and, instead of produc- ing a great force by a small effort, did not unfre- quently employ a force a hundred times greater than the resistance which she had to overcome. Having thus ascertained the nature of the levers, he proceeded next to calculate the strength of the different muscles, and found that many which scarcely support the weight of the lever in the dead body, do yet, in the living, exert a force equal to some thousands of pounds. All these conclusions are drawn from data universally admitted ; but he had an opinion with regard to the structure of the muscular fibre, that makes their force almost incredi- ble. On this hypothesis he makes the force ofLECTURE FOURTH. 112 three muscles, belonging to the hip joint, equal to ; no less than 375,420 pounds. His observations on the forms and movements of different animals, of men, quadrupeds, birds, fishes, and insects, are not only highly interesting to the naturalist, but might be studied with singular advantage by the medical practitioner who wishes to improve the mode of cure in luxations and fractures, or to explain the pheno- mena of disease where muscular action is materially concerned. He was the first, or among the first, who clearly demonstrated the great force of a muscular stomach, and he has given many experiments that were after- wards repeated by Abbe Spallanzani, and much ad- mired because ignorance supposed them to be new. His success in explaining muscular action, led him to apply mathematical reasoning to the other func- tions, both in a state of health and disease. And his friend Bellini extending it farther, was reckon- ed the inventor of what has been styled mathemati- cal medicine—a discovery deemed of so much im- portance, that it was termed nobilissimum atque utilissimum invention., and was thought by some little inferior to that of the circulation by Harvey. This discovery, if it might be called one, found a,strenuous and warm advocate in his friend Pit113 LECTURE FOURTH. cairn, who afterwards published the Physico-Mecha- nical Elements of Medicine. The pupil of Pit- cairn, the celebrated Boerhaave, and the most illus- trious character of his time, from giving his sanc- tion to many of its principles, served to establish them in the schools of physic. The animal system was now considered merely in the light of a mecha- nico-hydraulical machine; and a number of strange theories were formed upon the lentor and fluidity of the humours, the shape, magnitude, and gravity of the particles, and the cavities of the vessels, that were suited to certain forms and magnitudes, which, if they chanced to wander from their course, occa- sioned disease by an error loci. Warmed by enthu- siasm, and blinded by their theories, the mechani- cal physicians could not perceive that most of their conclusions were drawn from hypotheses supported by neither observation nor experiment; and, so eager were they in the application of their favourite science, that they seemed to be offended when any other mode of reasoning was suggested. “ Since the hu- man body,” said Dr. Friend, “ is nothing but a flue contexture of solids and fluids, which observe the rules of mechanism, it is amazing to find that men should think of any other principles than the me- chanical to explain it by.” “ Would any one,” he i114 LECTURE FOURTH. adds,u go so much out of the way, as to account for the motions of a watch, from the precarious doctrine of acid and alkali; or would he make use of the ethereal matter of De Cartes, to solve all the ap- pearances of hydrostatics ?” Such opinions of a favourite science might indeed be natural; but they were carried to such an extra- vagance, and led to consequences so very absurd, that, from not distinguishing between the use and abuse of a science, mathematical reasoning has for some time past been excluded almost entirely from physiology; although, to the candid inquirer, it be obvious that its enemies have shown as much impru- dence in rejecting it entirely, as Bellini and Pitcairn in extending it too far. No species of reasoning, excepting itself, could ever have explained the mo- tions of animals, shown the force which the heart and the stomach employ in their contractions, de- monstrated the effects of the blood’s velocity, its momentum and quantity in different vessels, or how these are effected by the differences of the angles at which branches of vessels arise from their trunks: and I farther may add, that no other species of rea- soning could have explained the phenomena of vi- sion, the structure of the ear, the properties of sound, the mechanism of the joints, the nature ofLECTURE FOURTH. 115 the levers, or the admirable contrivances in the forms of the bones, by which their surfaces are greatly enlarged, and their strength increased with the least possible quantity of matter. Having thus seen how much we owe to mathe- matical science, we must next inquire how much we are likewise indebted to Chemistry.—Of all the sciences, none have made bolder pretensions than this, to explain the functions of the animal system. From being at first employed in manufactures, it was brought into pharmacy by the Egyptians ; and, rising to still higher distinction, was at last consider- ed as a branch of philosophy by the Arabians, who had so high an opinion of its merit, that, with its assistance, they expected to find the philosopher’s stone, that was to transmute the basest metals into fine gold, and prolong life to indefinite periods. The first who applied it extensively in physic was Paracelsus, a man of singularly eccentric man- ners—keen, rash, ignorant, conceited, and notorious for that insufferable arrogance by which prosperity distinguishes a weak from a strong mind : he was so ambitious of popular applause, that he would al- low no merit to any other person ; and, for that reason, was particularly violent against all those of his own profession who had acquired any reputation. i 2116 LECTURE FOURTH. Having performed some remarkable cures by mer- cury and opium, and excited the admiration of the ignorant and credulous, he fancied that now he was something extraordinary ; and, adding cunning to his ambition, he tried to impose himself on the world, not only as the first physician, but as the first philo- sopher, and the first divine then in the universe: Thus easily, but idly, flattering himself, in con- temptuous derision, he called Hippocrates, Galen, and Avicenna, a parcel of humourists ; burned the works of the two latter publicly at Basil; threaten- ed next to overturn the system of Aristotle, and to send the Pope, Luther, and Zuinglius, as he had done Hippocrates, Galen, and Avicenna, back to the school again. Being totally ignorant of the art of anatomy, he af- fected to despise it: calls it local, material, and gross, and says that it merits little attention ; but proposes a new kind of his own, which was to consist in the chemical analyses of the different organs. “ This,” said he, “ is alone the true,—this the genuine,—this the noblest kind of anatomy.” By this anatomy he expected to find the kinds and proportions of the three great chemical principles of that time—the sulphur, the mercury, and the salt. The sulphur being what ascended in flame, the mercury whatLECTURE FOURTH. 117 ascended in smoke, and the salt what remained after combustion, As he believed that the animal fabric was a mi- crocosm or little world, governed by a spirit, which he called Archaeus ; so he also imagined, that, like the great world, it contained the principles of all animals, minerals, and vegetables; and, by the power of fancy, or rather assisted by the poet Ma- nilius, who wrote on Astronomy in the time of Au- gustus, he discovered its sun, its moon, and its planets, and asserted it to be necessary for a physi- cian to know likewise its east and its west, its me- ridian, the tail of its dragon, and its sign Aries. It is not surprising that chemistry, recommended by such a person, should be little attended to by ra- tional physiologists. His writings, however, which were voluminous, and much read, and by many ad- mired, from containing some novel and useful obser- vations, and several new chemical facts, contributed to weaken the authority of Galen in the schools of physic. In a short time chemical studies grew into such reputation, that Borelli, in his Bibliotheca Chemica, published in 1653, enumerates no fewer than four thousand that had been engaged in that branch of science, and yet mentions none but those118 LECTURE FOURTH. of his own knowledge.* From their joint labours, one should imagine, that much light would have been thrown on the animal economy : but Boer- haave observes, that the low character, the dissipat- ed lives, the pretensions to magic, and the merce- nary views of a great number of those who were en- gaged in it, retarded not only the progress of the science, but prevented mankind from reaping any advantage from their labours. The mechanical phi- losophers, jealous of encroachments, were not dispos- ed to overlook the circumstance; and part of the odium, so justly attached to the character of the men, was, in some measure, transferred to the science, and chemistry rejected from physiology. Among its restorers we are chiefly indebted to theHonourableMr. Boyle, Homberg, Mayow, Geof- frey, the Younger Lemery, Stahl, and Hoffman. Boyle, the earliest of these writers, not only ana- lysed a considerable number of animal substances, hut pointed out several advantages which anatomists might derive from the study of this art. He was likewise the inventor of what has been called the Pneumatic Philosophy, so much studied by May- ow and Hales, and so much improved by our Dr. * Bocrhaave’s Hist, of Chemistry, Vol. I. p. 45, note 8.119 LECTURE FOURTH. Black, whose merits as a chemist will perpetuate his memory to latest ages. By this, and other suc- cessive discoveries, chemical analysis has been car- ried to a high state of perfection ; and modern che- mistry has already ascertained, in a much more sa- tisfactory manner than was done before, the compo- nent parts of many of the animal solids and fluids ; and farther, having shown, that, in many cases, they vary their proportions according to age, health, and disease, it has furnished us with some new ideas re- specting the changes which regularly take place in the animal economy. But, besides ascertaining the nature of these changes, chemistry has added important information respecting two of the principal functions,—that of di- gestion, and that of respiration. You will recollect the notions of the ancients with regard to the for- mer, who generally imagined that the food was pre- pared by putrescence or concoction, to which Era- sistratus afterwards added a muscular force.* But neither putrescence, concoction, nor grinding, could ever explain how a variety of different substances are all converted into one kind of fluid, called • Cicero, De Natura Deorum, lib. ii. cap. xxv. gives alter- nate contractions and dilatations to the intestines, for propel- ling the food.120 LECTURE FOURTH. Chyme, until the chemists, from frequently observ- ing the processes of their laboratories, began to sus- pect that a certain fluid was secreted in the stomach, possessing the properties of a chemical solvent. Boyle and Ray ascertained its existence; Grew prov- ed that it did not act upon living bodies ; and others observed, that it varied according to the nature of the food and state of the stomach ; that it was differ- ent in different animals, and even in the same ani- mal at different periods;—facts which have certain- ly contributed much to explain the several pheno- mena of digestion. Respiration was a function still more obscure, and its use in the system more beyond the reach of a common observer. The ancients imagined the mg had many of the characters of a common fire ; that air was necessary to support the combus- tion, to carry off the fuliginous vapours ; and, in this way, by not only heating, but ventilating the system, became the regulator of temperature. Yet Cicero, whose notions were more refined, makes a marked distinction between common fire* and that which supports animal life. “ The former,” he says, “ has a tendency to consume whatever it approaches ; the * De Natura Deorum, lib. ii. cap. xv.121 LECTURE FOURTH. latter, on the contrary, is vital and salutary, pre- serves, nourishes, augments, sustains, and endows with sensation. This species of heat is diffused through all nature, is the source of fluidity through- out the universe, is in a sensible or latent state, in- timately combined with every other body, and even with the air, which, according to him, is the coldest of all bodies. This air, by its tenuity, and that heat with which it is combined, furnishes the vital spirit to animals ; while the lungs, by their spongy texture, are admirably calculated to receive and dis- tribute it through the system by respiration.” From this language of Cicero, one might at first be in- clined to believe, that he was acquainted with latent heat, and that the evolution of this heat, in passing through the lungs and the bloodvessels, was the principal cause of animal temperature. But his random expressions are so vague, and so evidently founded upon the hypotheses of the stoical philo- sophy, that we must, in justice, ascribe this dis- covery to a later period. Our countryman, Mayow*, was the first who had accurate ideas on the subject; he proved from a number of well-conducted chemical experiments. * Dr. Hooke has likewise some claim.122 LECTURE FOURTH. that the air was a compound, and that it was only one of its constituents that supported life. He proved likewise, that the same constituent, and no other, supported combustion, and that the tempera- ture of animals was nearly in proportion to the quan- tity of air which they respired. From these facts he concluded, that the function of respiration was the principal cause of animal heat. On observing that the same aerial constituent, which supported combustion and animal life, was what converted potash into nitre, he chose to call it nitrum aereuin, or aerial nitre, in order to distinguish it from the nitrate of potash, which, in his language, is the ni- trum fixum, and, at the same time, from the nitric acid, which, in his language, is the nitrum acidum. Observing farther, that the nitrum fixum, or nitrate of potash, changed the colour of the blood from black to red, he endeavoured to explain the change of co- lour which the blood undergoes in passing through the lungs. In that passage, he supposed it to com- bine with his nitro-aerial particles, from the air which we breathe; and knowing that a regular and constant supply of fresh air is necessary to life and the due performance of the different functions, he inferred, that this regular supply of his nitro-aerial particles was the principal intention of respiration. To ob-LECTURE FOURTH. 123 viate an objection that arose from the general opi- nion of his time,—that the motion of the lungs, in- duced by respiration, was chiefly designed to pro- mote the circulation, he observed, that the circu- lation of the foetus was carried on without any as- sistance from the lungs, and that though our breath- ing be suspended for a while, the pulse does not stop. His nitro-aerial fluid was afterwards discovered in a separated state by the celebrated Priestley, and, after assuming different names, is now distinguished by that of Oxygen, or Oxygenous Gas. By the known properties of this gas, and by his discovery of latent heat, the late Dr. Black was able to throw additional light upon respiration and animal heat. From this simple statement of facts, it must be obvious how much physiology is indebted to the chemists ; and it is natural to expect, that much ad- ditional and valuable information may yet be derived from their future labours, provided they continue within those bounds which nature has prescribed to their researches. But, as chemical science can no more explain the properties of a circle, than mathe- matical reasoning the effervescence of an acid and alkali, they ought to recollect, that every science has its limits, and can only be useful when it is con-124 LECTURE FOURTH. fined to its proper sphere; and they should not pro- ceed, as the mathematicians once did before, on the foolish hypothesis, that their science can explain every thing; nor, like a geographer, who, from know- ing only a country or two, thinks himself qualified to give a map of the whole world. These observa- tions are the more necessary, as some chemists have begun to imagine, that a vital principle has no exis- tence ; that all the phenomena of living bodies are the effects of chemical combinations ; and that a more perfect combination might produce those phe- nomena in nature which we ascribe to the provi- dence, wisdom, and the boundless power of the Author of all things. As these speculations are founded merely on gratuitous hypothesis, and affect ultimately, not only the religion, but morals of man- kind, we ought to be guarded as to the motives whence they proceed. It is very evident that they have not for their object, either the truth, the ad- vancement of science, or the interests of society; they remind us rather of the petulant boastings of a Paracelsus, who talked of prolonging life as he pleased, and, for certain reasons known to himself, of propagating the species without the intercourse of the two sexes.125 LECTURE FOURTH. But, to leave the dreams and idle visions of this fanatic, let us now see how much better founded are several pretensions of some of our physiological chemists, and whether the existence of some other cause, besides these chemical affinities, be not neces- sary to account for that combination and arrangement of parts which we observe in the animal structure. When we observe the number of bones, joints, cartilages, veins, arteries, lymphatics, glands, nerves, ligaments, and membranes,—all of them differing from one another, all of them, however, of deter- mined shapes, situations, and uses, and all of them growing at the same time;—when we see the num- ber of chemical processes by which they are formed, differing in kind, but not interfering; or similar in kind, but producing works of a different form ; and, although contiguous, always distinct in their opera* tions; when we see the same chemical processes, employed in the other half of the system, perform- ing the like variegated works in the same way, and in the same time; when we see them change and succeed one another according to the stated periods of life, and yet all their actions regularly co-operat- ing, all of them dependent on one another, all of them contributing to one end, all of them construct- ing one whole, to be subservient to one will, and126 LECTURE FOURTH. obedient to one mind, can we suppose that this whole is without a plan, that this plan could have been formed without great wisdom and foresight ? But this wisdom and foresight we must ascribe to the chemical affinities of the air which we breathe, and the food and drink by which we are nourished. If they be the sole organizers of our bodies, we must ascribe to them even much more;—we must give them the power of varying their work according to pleasure, and constructing, likewise, by the same affinities, the numerous species of animals and plants;—of preserving the regular difference of sex; its stated proportions between males and females, with all the desires, appetites, and passions, that are the concomitants of such distinctions. We must likewise suppose, that these chemical I affinities of our food and drink, and the air which i we breathe, have an accurate knowledge of different countries, are acquainted with the various seasons of: each, and that, occasionally, their repulsions and attractions extend through a space of some thousands of miles, driving animals from distant climates, re- pelling others in an opposite direction, and, at last, sending all back to their home at a stated period; as we see is the case with birds and fishes, and, in lesser degrees, with quadrupeds of passage.LECTURE FOURTH. 127 As they are conceived, on this wild hypothesis, to have formed a Homer, a Virgil, a Milton, and a Newton, the conclusion must be, that they form the faculties of memory, imagination, and reason, in the highest possible human degree. And when we are brought to believe this, it cannot surely be difficult to imagine, how all our associations of ideas, and their connections with arbitrary signs, should only be a sort of chemical affinities ; and we need not be surprised to see the processes of the laboratory exhi- biting all the symptoms of passion, desire, and ap- petite ; discussing moral and religious subjects; pretending to great skill in philosophy, and forming new models of empires. Such are the strange and singular consequences of that theory, which ascribes the organization of the structure to the chemical affinities ot those materials of which it is composed. The result is so absurd, that, with all their reluc- tance to admit the existence of a living principle, distinct fiom matter, many of our physiological che- mists, with the French at their head, are begun to be ashamed of it. They are ready to acknowledge, that the laws which regulate animated bodies, are perfectly distinct from those which are found in che- mistry and mechanics; they call them the laws of living matter of organized bodies ; as if the matterLECTURE FOURTH. 128 of organized bodies were some peculiar species of matter, distinct from the gross and sensible materials by which the organized body is nourished. The ground-work here is the same as before, and leads precisely to the same conclusion, that there is nothing like a soul in man : The language is only a little varied, and a little more accommodated to vulgar prejudices, for the purpose of better concealing the sophistry. But, to take another view of the subject, let us put the question, To what do all these reveries tend, and what do they prove ? Nothing but this, that some of our physiological chemists are beginning to wander from the true paths of genuine science, and fancy they are making important discoveries, in as- cribing to these chemical affinities the properties of life, and the attributes of Deity,—a discovery that ranks, in my opinion, in the same class with that of the most superstitious and vulgar, who ascribe the most striking phenomena in nature to a certain de- scription of silly old women whom they call witches. That both chemical and mechanical powers are em- ployed in the system, as operative agents, cannot be denied ; but as they are always observed to act upon a given and specific plan, we must conclude, that, in the execution of the plan prescribed, they are direct-129 LECTURE FOURTH. ed by some other agent, which confines their opera- tions to certain forms, situations, magnitudes, and periods of life. This agent, philosophers have chosen to distin- guish by the name of vital principle. Cicero has called it the Principatus, or the Ruling Power,* the Greeks termed it the'HAi^Ko*—VanHelmont has cal- led it Archaeus—others name it the Animaor Soul; but by whatever appellation it is known, the most celebrated naturalists, as well as anatomists, as Har- vey, Malphigi, Lyonet, Bonnet, Trembley, Baker, the late Dr. Hunter, and many others, have shown its vast influence in the system, and proved, from a number of repeated observations and accurate ex- periments, its peculiar powers in a great variety of I1 different animals. From what they have done, we can hardly help expressing our surprise, that im- portant inquiries of this nature, begun and carried on by the most eminent anatomists in Europe, should, in some measure, be totally laid aside, and have given place to the theories of men, who had studied the animal economy in the closet, and who dreamed that matter was regularly subjected to the same laws, whether in the living body or the labo* ratory. * De Natura Deorum, lib. ii. cap. xi. KLECTURE FOURTH. 130 This species of philosophy, says Dr. Hunter, has prevailed in many parts of physiology, and makes up a great part of what has been taught as sound and useful physiological learning: The consequence has been, that one thing of peculiar properties and powers has been explained by another of different properties and powers, as absurdly as if colours had been explained by sounds. But animal functions, he adds, generally speaking, are like nothing to be found in the works of art, or where there is not ani- mation and life; and had physiologists spent that time in making accurate observation upon animals themselves, which has been thrown away upon me- chanical and chemical visions, by this time we might have understood animal principles and processes much better than what we do now. To confirm this reasoning, I would here ask, if, without experiments or observations on the living body, mere chemical and mechanical reasoning could ever have informed us, that a new tail will grow to the lizard, and a new head to many of the mollusca after the old ones are struck off; or could they have foretold, that when the claw of a lobster, a crab, or a craw-fish is destroyed, the remaining phalanxes shall drop off at the fourth joint, and that then, the animal, by its vital powers, shall reproduce an131 LECTURE FOURTH. entire limb, such as the former ; or could they have foreseen, that the large hone of the human leg may die of disease, a new one occupy its place, and this, not- withstanding that the person affected should all the time never he entirely prevented from walking ? Such are a few of the common specimens of that kind of knowledge, which some physiologists would have us to renounce for what Dr. Hunter not improperly denominates, their chemical visions. I hope it is A unnecessary to warn you of the consequences. As the living principle has already become the subject of experiment and observation, and methods pointed out by which its properties, its powers, its functions, and its modes of action may be ascertained, I shall leave you to judge how far it is proper to turn from a field of such useful inquiry, merely because the fashionable vulgar, among our physiologists, do not countenance it. But such opposition has not been peculiar to the vital principle: the circulation discovered by Harvey was hooted and ridiculed in the same way, because the fastidious pride of ana- tomists, the fashion of the day, and their tender at- tachment to their own theories, would not permit them to examine the facts on which it was founded. Even chemistry itself, now so vainly proud of her physiology, experienced at one time a similar treat- K 2LECTURE FOURTH. 132 ment from the mechanico hydraulical physiologists, who talked with contempt of her acids and alkalis, because they were likely to drive from the stage their diagrams, postulates, and calculations, that so long had instructed and delighted the vulgar. General knowledge alone can fully prevent these ridiculous prejudices, that naturally arise from al- lowing the mind to be wholly engrossed with a fa- vourite science. In that situation a man must ne- i • cessarily see things through a false medium. The chemist can only see his affinities, the geometrician his mechanical laws, and both must resemble the blind man, who, judging of visible objects by the ear, concluded that colours were a species of sounds, and from what he heard of the nature of scarlet, ima- gined it something like the blast of a trumpet; nor was this misapplication of a sense attended with more palpable absurdity, than the application of one science to explain and illustrate the principles of another. It is a most singular and curious fact in the his- tory of anatomy, that geometry, chemistry, and the vital principle of Helmont and Stahl, have all three been occasionally rejected from philosophy, because each in their turn, when they got into power, as- pired at the most despotic authority, attempted to133 LECTURE FOURTH. k 3 explain the whole functions of the animal system in their own way, would allow no other a share in the merit, but, like one sense trying to perform the duties of the whole, always led to absurd conclu- sions, in which the most patient and stupid credu- lity could hardly acquiesce. These failures should serve as a hint to modern physiologists, that the different functions of the animal system are not to be explained upon the principles of any one science. Nature is not to be dragged into our theories, nor restricted to our rules, and, therefore, if we mean to investigate the truth, we must not assume the tone of authority, and dic- tate to her, but mark her laws, observe her opera- tions, and try to distinguish in what cases she prin- cipally employs her chemical, mechanical, and vital powers. Perhaps she may even employ more than we are aware of. Much is reserved for time and for chance, and much too it is likewise certain we shall never know. For to comprehend whatever relates to the animal system, is to comprehend the Being who made it. Now these hopes we can hardly en- tertain ; for, although we can trace the chain of gra- dation from the meanest reptile, upwards towards man, yet between man and the Sovereign of the Universe, the distance is immense.134 LECTURE FOURTH. I have now finished this introductory part of the course, in which you have had a general view of the animal system, and seen a sketch of the leading discoveries made in anatomy, with the arts and sciences, that have contributed to their improve- ments. As a preparation, and to give an interest to those minute and detailed descriptions, on which we are to enter, I thought it necessary. The prin- cipal facts will be highly useful, as heads of arrange- ment, in collecting your future ideas on the subject; and, if you observed that I ventured at times to mark the limits, within which the auxiliary sciences ought to be confined, you must not understand me, as if I meant to lay any restriction upon you. As your knowledge increases, you will think for your- selves ; I wish you by no means to subscribe im- plicitly to my opinions—such unbounded confidence could do no good to me—it would not reflect any credit on your own understandings, and it never would promote the interest of the science, which with you and with me ought to be the great object at heart.COMPARATIVE ANATOMY., ' . :d ■ *LECTURE FIFTH. COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. Anatomy, which literally signifies Dissection, when employed as a mean to investigate the struc- tures of inferior animals, is styled Comparative. The term has its origin from the numerous allu- sions that, in these investigations, are usually made to the human structure. The objects of such in- quiries are various : We dissect these animals to derive, by comparison, additional information re- specting the different organs and functions of the human structure ; and, therefore, dissect them not only to be better acquainted with the species to which they belong, but to correct or confirm our observations with respect to a species which we have seen, and which, in order to be better under-138 LECTURE FIFTH. stood, requires much collateral illustration;—we dissect them, also, to learn, from analogy, the na- ture of a species which they resemble, but which we have not seen, nor have ever had in our power to examine ;—we dissect them in different periods of life, to observe the changes in structure and form which they undergo from birth to maturity, and to mark the relations between these changes and the several changes of disposition, habit, and instinct. For the same reason, and to throw an additional light upon Medicine and Natural His- tory, we dissect them in all the various states of health and disease, that we may know from their outward symptoms, what are the changes taking place within, and thus be enabled to learn from analogy, to retard, alleviate, successfully to resist, or remove diseases in ourselves and them. To ascertain with still more accuracy how far a function depends on the form, the structure, the position, or connection of an organ, or how far it depends upon that principle which directs the or- gan in all its operations, we dissect and compare animals belonging to different genera, to see whe- ther similar functions may not he performed by organs of very different kinds ; whether in cases similar to those in which a man uses the hand, theCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 139 elephant may not use his proboscis, the swallow his bill, and the beaver his teeth ;—or we dissect them, in order to know whether functions and instincts, specifically different, may not be connected ; and particularly where voluntary organs are concerned, with forms and structures remarkably similar, as we see on comparing the toad and the frog, the hare and the rabbit, the carrion and the granivorous crow, and various species of the same genus, dis- tinguished more by habits and instincts, than by obvious features of form, or of structure; a circum- stance that naturally occasions this reflection, that a difference of habit, disposition, and instinct, may as often originate from insensible causes as from many of those prominent characters that forcibly obtrude themselves upon our senses. Lastly, we are led to extend our inquiries to every genus and species of animals within our reach, when we wish to be informed respecting the beautiful gradations in nature, to draw conclusions with regard to the animal kingdom at large, or to ascertain whether the fossil-remains of animals belong to the species that now exist, or to genera and species that have long been extinct: An in- quiry, that naturally and necessarily carries us into geology, to consider the past revolutions of the140 LECTURE FIFTH. globe, its climates, its surface, and its productions, that supported inhabitants so different from the present.—This extension of research becomes the more necessary, as general conclusions from partial observations are the bane of philosophy, being only foundations for idle hypotheses, and abstract dis- cussions that divert the mind from attending to the actual processes of nature, that stir up within it the spirit of controversy, and direct its whole force to the study of logical distinctions and subtilties, as often employed to obscure the truth as detect . error. In former days, when anatomists drew their general inferences from examining the structures of one or two species, they were not unfrequeutly opposed by others, who reasoned from the structure of a different genus ; and thus physiology, instead of furnishing us with new truths or certain conclu- sions, furnished us only with new sources of wrang- ling and dispute, when each combatant, in the place of appealing to Nature herself for additional information, appealed to Hippocrates, Galen, or Aristotle, or to some other leader who had indulged as much in hypotheses as they did themselves. Thus, prior to the time of the celebrated Harvey, how various the notions that were entertained of141 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. the motion of the blood,—with what acrimony, learning, and subtilty was each supported,—by what conjectures, hints, and probabilities,—by chance, approaching at times to the truth, but as often flying off1 in the opposite direction. Harvey, who saw that experiment alone could decide their controversies, had recourse to the aid of Comparative Anatomy,—dissected numerous speciesof animals,— and though amidst the sneers, the scorn, and abuse of his contemporaries, at last made the great and im- mortal discovery of the Circulation,—silenced many of their groundless disputes, and laid an entirely new foundation for Physiology. Since that period, every anatomist has seen the importance of Comparative Anatomy, and been forced to acknowledge, that scarcely a problem in physiology can be solved without it; and it must be obvious, that every organ should be accurately examined in varieties of form, connection, structure, and relative position, before we can venture to assert with confidence, what is essential, or what is not essential to its functions. At one time, ana- tomists were surprised to find a liver on the left side, as if the liver upon that side could not perform its functions as well as upon the right. Its situa- tion, its form, its proportions, its several aspects,142 LECTURE FIFTH. and supply of blood, are different in the foetus, and in the adult of the human species j and, on looking into birds, we find it there equally divided between right and left; and oftener upon the left than upon the right in the class of fishes. The forms of the body and the modes of life in these two classes being evidently different,—“ a leading specialty,” says an eminent anatomist, “ draws after it a great many more*.” From the numerous advantages thus derived i from Comparative Anatomy, and from its being : < generally acknowledged as the basis of all rational I : deduction in physiological investigations, it may seem surprising that it is not more generally studied, and particularly as every distinguished j anatomist, whose name is known in the records of jj history, has set the example f, and strenuously re- commended it as the only source from which we 9 can derive any explanation of the modifications of j the animal structure, or any clear and accurate idea of the functions of organs. It exhibits a view of the animal creation so widely extended and so infinitely varied, that there # Monro’s Preface to Iris Comparative Anatomy. f Haller, under the word Haller in Bibliotheca Ana- tomies.COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 143 is no diversity of taste, genius, or habit, that may not find suitable objects to attract the attention, either in the way of instruction or amusement. Anatomists, therefore, amidst so wide and unlimit- ed a range of animated beings peopling the air, the waters, and the earth, have naturally selected from the vast immensity, the particular objects which time, inclination, or opportunity led them to ex- amine ; thus some have principally directed their attention to two or three species, some to the pro- minent character of an order, as Conrad Peyerus to the organs of digestion in ruminating animals; some to varieties of genera and species ; some to the study of the larger animals; and some, as Swammerdam, Lyonet, Bonnet, Trembley, Baker, Needham, and Dellenius to the study of animals, that can proper- ly be examined only through the microscope, while Blasius and Collins, of a different cast, have con- tented themselves with collecting and publishing the observations that were made by others. Of these observations many are found in the Transactions of the Royal Society, and in the Me- moirs of the French Academy, two learned bodies who have always countenanced Comparative Anato- my, and been fully aware of the numerous advan- tages that naturally result from it. Of the indi-] 44 LECTURE FIFTH. viduals who have turned their attention to this sub- ject, no one perhaps was ever more sensible of its importance than the great Haller, without excep- tion undoubtedly the most learned and the most in- defatigable of all anatomists, and yet, at the same time, an eminent botanist, a philosopher, a divine, a poet, and a statesman. In his Elements of Phy- siology, a work consisting of eight volumes 4to, and his Opera Minora, consisting of three, he has col- lected from Harvey, and others of his predecessors, almost every important observation that relates to the structure or functions of animals, examined the facts on which they were founded, and has added many that were new of his own. From the natural influence of such an example, followed by d’Azyr, d’Aubenton, and others, and so forcibly recom- mended by the numerous proofs which Buffon has given of the additional interest and improvement which natural history may derive from such studies, one should have imagined that many otheis would have eagerly followed him in the same path to fame. But Haller’s works unfortunately being in Latin, and not translated, they are more generally spoken of than read. Yet read or not read, as nothing of the kind had ever thrown so much light upon physi- ology, they certainly procured to him, and previous145 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. to his death, which happened in December, 1777 deservedly the first reputation in Europe. In mentioning Harvey, and some of the emi- nent characters abroad, who have advanced this branch of anatomy, I should be unjust to my own country, were I to forget an ingenious Essay, writ- ten with great ability and spirit, and strongly re- commending Comparative Anatomy as of first-rate importance to every branch of the medical profes- sion : This elegant Essay, bearing to be the work of a physician then lately deceased, appeared in Lon- don in 1744, with a preface by a gentleman to whom the publisher had submitted the manuscript, and who strenuously advised the publication, as con- taining many useful discoveries, and as being the production of some great master, whose learning and modesty seemed not to be inferior to his ca- pacity. It turned out afterwards, that this Essay had been copied from the Lectures of Dr. Monro, the great founder of our Medical School, and who continued to survive its appearance above twenty years, dying in 1767, ten years before the illustrious Haller. In sixteen years after his death, the same Essay, accompanied with the original preface, with several additions, his name prefixed, and a copious index, was re-edited by his son. Yet, notwith-146 LECTURE FIFTH. standing this high authority, and the merit of the work, in which he urges the beauty, the extent, and utility of the science, and the flattering prospects which it holds out of new discoveries and increased reputation, the interesting study of Comparative Anatomy has hitherto been prosecuted only by a few, although these few have been men of the first dis- tinction and talents; men who have thrown much light on natural history, and even on geology, and who are avowedly either the sole or the principal discoverers of the numerous facts that contribute to explain the animal functions, and establish the prin- ciples of physiology. With all these inducements, with the frequent and even daily opportunities of dissecting animals of various descriptions, and preserving the health of the useful and domestic, in which so many are deep- ly interested, what can be the cause that it has not been more generally cultivated ? The expla- nation seems to be this,—Anatomy is an art, and, like any other art, is not to be learned either from pictures or verbal descriptions: those who would study it, must see it practised ; they must see the forms, magnitudes, positions, proportions, and con- nections of the structures and organs as they are in nature. No figures or verbal descriptions canCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 147 ever compensate for the want of the originals ; they give not the same relish nor interest, nor afford the same correctness of ideas. Even when accurate, they but assist the imagination to conceive the things which they represent; and if they be other- wise, as they frequently are, they tend to mislead it, and become, not unusually, the strongly fortified depots of error. In short, at their best, they are only shadows in place of the substances, and if they be faulty, they are worse than shadows, because they are shadows without any substance, or prototype in nature. To illustrate the general scope of this rea- soning, let any one read the history of a coun- try, study its maps, and afterwards visit the coun- try itself. If he travel through it with any at- tention, he will generally find it a different coun- try from what either his reading or his maps led him to suppose. His visit will produce livelier impressions, a deeper interest, and more accu- rate conceptions; it will even give an additional relish to the perusal of his history; and his map will reflect a new kind of light, and assist in fur- nishing him with new kinds of views; both must then be better understood, more easily consult- ed, less apt to mislead ; and thus becoming much surer guides for refreshing his memory and enliven l 2148 LECTUltE FIFTH. ing his fancy, cannot afterwards fail to recall a num- ber of past associations that were formed in his tour, and to fill up more satisfactorily the several vacan- cies of his recollections. Yet, notwithstanding that maps and histories give imperfect information, com- pared to that which is directly and forcibly impres- sed from the originals, still histories and maps, re- lating to those species of objects with which we are familiar, convey more clear and accurate ideas of the things intended, than anatomical descriptions and engravings, that are meant to convey ideas of things of which we had not previously formed a conception even by analogy. It is no wonder, then, that a general taste for Comparative Anatomy has never been communicated through these channels, even when attempted by such men as Harvey and Haller, men of the most indefatigable industry and transcendent genius. The plan that is now generally approved is more likely to succeed,—that of exhibiting the originals themselves, where they can be procured, and der monstrating by dissection the structures of different genera and species in a series of lectures, while these lectures are further illustrated by various anatomical preparations, sometimes of species rarely to be found, but which chance occasionally throws in the way,149 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. and which can be easily preserved in museums By such lectures the celebrated Cuvier, the author of five volumes octavo, on the Comparative Ana- tomy of Animals that now exist, and of four in quarto, on the Fossil Remains of many a species that is now extinct, has not only extended his fame throughout Europe, but given a degree of eclat to the science that it had not before. The British Parliament, too, has been roused, and, aware of the advantages to be derived from disseminating this species of knowledge, has purchased Mr. Hunter’s museum, chiefly relating to Comparative Anatomy, and presented it to the Royal College of Surgeons, where it is to be hoped that Mr. Abernethy, ap- pointed the lecturer and the professor, will still continue to exert those talents for which he is so eminent, to raise its reputation and extend its use- fulness throughout the empire. I have no doubt that it will soon attract a very general attention in' Ireland, as Mr. Macartney, so well known for his acquirements in this branch of science, has lately been elected professor of anatomy in Trinity College, Dublin. It is already beginning to create an inte- rest in some of the United States of America ; and Dr. Mease, who has delivered a course on this sub- ject in Philadelphia, has sent me his introductory L 3150 LECTUltE FIFTH. lecture, which displays much reading and research, and highly proper views of the science; although, from the circumstances in which he was placed, he was much confined in his illustrations, to veterinary medicine ; which was certainly like stripping a luxu- riant plant of all its promising branches but one, that it alone might abstract and absorb whatever nourishment should enter by the roots, or ascend by the trunk. This practice of communicating veteri- nary science, through the medium of demonstrations and lectures, has a long time been known on the Continent; while another practice, that of dissecting the lower animals as substitutes for men, may date its origin from a high antiquity, though now fallen much into disuse, from the greater opportunities of studying from the human body itself. A third practice, that of dissecting a variety of animals, with the view of improving natural history and establish- ing the principles of physiology, though privately pursued by several individuals, has seldom till late- ly been generally recommended by a course of lec- tures. Among the first who made the attempt, may probably be reckoned the great founder of our Me- dical School, Dr. Monro primus. He began these lectures prior to the middle of the last century, in which course he was followed by his son, a very151 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. distinguished successor, and an eminent writer on some branches of Comparative Anatomy. If their lectures failed to produce the effects that were intended, to rouse the energies, and to awaken a spirit of inquiry among their pupils, the failure certainly was not owing to a want of zeal, or to any want of ability in the teachers ; other circumstances easily account for it. Their lectures were few, and from want of preparations, so limited in their range* that their pupils had only a partial glimpse of the wide and the varied field that was before them. They, besides, were delivered as merely an appen- dage to a different course, which, by that time, had continued for a period of nearly six months. Many of the pupils who had finished their studies, were returning to their homes; those that remained were impatient to follow them; and, seeing their com- panions dropping off daily, got weary and exhausted, and ceased to feel that glow of enthusiasm with which they commence a new course of studies, when every one is fresh and in spirits, and challenging his fellow, by precept and example, to contend with him in laudable exertion. We begin this course, I would fain hope, in different circumstances; with a greater variety of illustrative preparations, that enable us to take a152 LECTURE FIFTH. much wider range—not a course of four or five lectures—not confined to the demonstration of a few organs in two or three animals—not delivered to those who are indifferent to the various objects which it embraces—not to those who are impatient to follow their companions, to return to their homes, their friends, and amusements. I shall flatter my- self, that those who are now intending to enter upon this study, are every way prepared to enter upon it with that arduous and steady perseverance which sel- dom fail to he crowned with success in any rational or honourable enterprize. Permit me then to explain more particularly the views I entertain of its utility, and to point out the ways in which I think it may, as a branch of liberal education, be of high importance to men of various professional descriptions. To all belonging to the medical profession, whether surgeons or physicians —to all naturalists, whose taste may incline them to the study of zoology—to all who are concerned in the health and preservation of valuable animals— to the lawyer, who attends to the nature of evidence in criminal trials—to the moralist and logician, who view the faculties of the mind in the abstract, without reflecting upon the powerful re-action of the organs by which it operates, and by which it is often153 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. operated upon—to the physico-theologist, who is anxious to witness the strongest proofs of any that are furnished by the works of nature, of the exis- tence and power of the Deity, of his omniscience, his omnipresence, his varied operations, and his universal superintendence—and, lastly, to the in- quisitive geologist, that delights in tracing the great physical revolutions of the globe, by studying the fossil remains of animals that at one time had been its inhabitants, when it presented a different aspect and had different climates from' what it has now. - In adverting to each of these, in their order, I [shall begin with mentioning some of the principal advantages which those of my own profession may derive from it. It was by studying Comparative Anatomy, and dissecting animals that bore the ! nearest resemblance to man, that all the earlier physicians and surgeons, down to the end of the fourteenth century, excepting Herophilus and Era- sistratus, who, under the protection of powerful princes, had sometimes permission to dissect crimi- nals, could ever have acquired any thing like precise ideas of the structure and functions of the human body. It was almost entirely from this source that Galen collected all the information that appears in his valuable work on Anatomy, a workLECTURE FIFTH. 154 that, in the opinion of Portal, one of the most learn- ed anatomists in Europe, is greatly superior to many compilations of the present day. This, while it reflects credit upon Galen, is a sort of reproach to those of our own times, whose ignorance renders them the dupes of such impostors as choose to obtrude their meagre compilations for new and improved systems of anatomy. The descriptions of Galen, though taken from Quadrupeds, are, in many repects, so generally applicable to the human species, that had we not been assured of the contrary, we should have some- times been inclined to believe, as several have done, that he had actually dissected man. But the strong prejudices against the dissection of the human body rendered that impracticable. For even he, though physician to an emperor, and the friend of a consul who witnessed his dissections, is under the necessity of advising others to go to Alexandria to obtain the sight of a human skeleton, having learned by ex- perience that anatomy was not to be acquired by reading or oral description. These prejudices still continue, to a certain ex- tent, in many countries, and even in our own ; but not so unsurmountable as they were in his time among the Greeks, the Romans, and others. SuchCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 155 prejudices now are not against dissection in general, but against the dissection of relatives or friends. Viewed in the abstract, the art of dissection is high- ly approved, taught under official authority, and everywhere acknowledged the primary source of that information by which we are enabled to combat suc- cessfully the attacks of disease, to prolong the health !of our citizens at home, and preserve the lives of our generous and gallant defenders abroad. Many of these, by the improved operations of Surgery, directed by Anatomy, have recovered from wounds for which former periods could think of no remedy; and many, perhaps, by the advantages of medical aid, are now reserved, as Nelson once was, to acquire new laurels, to gain new victories, and to add new honours to the arms of their country. In situations where these prejudices are rather losing than acquiring strength, it would be absurd to substitute entirely the dissection of quadrupeds for that of man ; but there may be situations, and there are situations, where a medical gentleman can have no opportunity of examining the structure of the human body ; where his recollections of that structure must become faint, his ideas vague, and where he consequently must lose that confidence, both in prescription and in operation, which he once156 LECTURE FIFTH. had. In such situations, Comparative Anatomy is an object to him of the utmost importance. It pre- serves alive his former recollections of the human structure, exhibits similar organs and functions, ex- tends his ideas of the animal economy, and occasion- ally corrects the indistinct notions which he had re- ceived from lectures or books. If he be engaged in surgical practice, it makes him familiar with the nature of the parts on which he has to operate, with their connexions, their relative situations, and mu- tual dependence. An artery, a vein, a nerve, and an absorbent, have a similar appearance and similar functions in the warm-blooded quadrupeds that they have in man ; and he who can readily dissect and distinguish them in the one case, can do it in the other; so that he who can with dexterity and skill perform operations on the lower animals, is not ill- prepared to perform the like upon man himself. Some modifications are no doubt requisite, from the difference of circumstances, but a knowledge of these is easily acquired, and may be learned by a person acquainted with the general structure, from verbal descriptions. From the numerous figures of the lower animals which were published by the one, and the splendid museum left by the other, it appears that bothCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 157 Cheselden and Hunter were ardent enthusiasts in Comparative Anatomy, and yet these two have never been surpassed, if they ever have been equalled* in the skill and dexterity with which they operated on the human body. Their success, however, is not to be entirely imputed to that knowledge which in these investigations they had acquired of the animal economy. By their various dissections they be- came acquainted with various modes of performing operations, and, constantly engaged, acquired an ex- pertness in the management of their instruments* which all have admired, but few have taken the trouble to imitate. The want of practice in the use of the instruments is one of the evils at this day attending on surgery. In studying almost every other art, a young man, from the date of his indenture, begins to handle and work with the tools that are appropriate to his profession, and, at the ex- piration of his apprenticeship, is generally supposed to be as dexterous in managing and applying them to various purposes as the master himself. Now this happens to be seldom the case, and cannot well be the case in surgery; the master cannot afford to his apprentices the same opportunities,—he cannot dispose of his patients at pleasure, nor will they, where they think their life is in danger, submit to158 LECTURE FIFTH. operations by an apprentice that is thought inex- perienced. In most operations on the living body, the master, therefore, can only instruct them by his example in the use of their instruments. To ac- quire the practical management of these, they have usually recourse to the dead body; and yet it is only in particular situations that dead bodies can be procured, and even these are procured with difficulty, often from a distance, and at great ex- pense. Comparative Anatomy then becomes the only alternative ; the lower animals may be pro- cured at all times, in all places, and without any in- convenience or obstruction. -By dissecting and prac- tising operations upon them, a knowledge so desir- able, essential and necessary, as a thorough acquaint- ance with the management of the instruments, may be gradually acquired ; and, what is more, such ope- rations, in many respects, may approach nearer to those performed on the living body, than those which are practised on the dead human subject. In the dead body there is no hemorrhage to conceal the parts or retard the operation, no arteries to be sud- denly tied, no muscles to give any kind of distur- bance by their action, and no nerves to produce pain, writhings, and convulsions. In short, bating the external form and internal structure, no two bodiesCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 159 can be more unlike in the other phenomena which they exhibit, than a dead and a living, even though they be of the same species. So let not the young anatomist and surgeon despise this road . to professional improvement. They need not be ashamed to tread in the paths where Harvey and Haller, and Cheselden and Hunter have gone be- fore them. Those who neglect such favourable op- portunities to become acquainted with the use of their instruments, are apt, when engaged in any operation, if they cannot contrive some anomalous appearance in the structure, to blame the instru- ments for any unforeseen or untoward circumstance ; but, whatever defects they may point out, the event in general will only serve to remind the by- standers of the common observation—that a bad reaper never yet got a good sickle ; as if the instruments were entirely in the fault, they im- mediately set their invention on the rack to con- trive new ones. Hence the explanation of that im- mense variety of instruments, as Staffs and Gor- gets, for performing the operation of Lithotomy ; an operation which ordinary instruments were accus- tomed to perform with admirable success when put into the hands of a Cheselden and a Hunter. How comes it then that these instruments have160 LECTURE FIFTH. lost their power, their skill, and reputation ? The truth is, they never deserved any; they owed what they had to the hands that held them, and the heads that directed them ; and such hands and heads might be more frequently obtained by repeated dissections, and frequent operations on the lower animals. By these observations I mean not to insinuate that sur- gical instruments are sufficiently improved; the very reverse I believe is the case; though these improve- ments should come from persons who are thoroughly conversant with the nature of the instruments, and the uses to which they are applied. All men must necessarily handle them but awkwardly at first, and yet then it is they are most inclined to invent new ones. When they have served a regular apprentice- ship in the use of what they have, they begin to discover that the fault was not so much in their instruments as in themselves. Whatever then the old and experienced surgeon may do, the young surgeon should always be cautious how he complains of the customary instruments, as his objections are liable to more interpretations than one. In another point of view, Comparative Anatomy is of equal interest to the surgeon and physician, it being the foundation of most of the physiological161 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. information communicated in lectures upon the Theory and Institutes of Medicine. These lectures being meant to contain the results of all the various observations and experiments relating to the solids, fluids, and functions of the animal structure ; but these results, though accompanied sometimes with a few remarks, are rarely accompanied with any de- monstrations ; for not only the pupils, but the lec- turer himself, must often receive them upon bare report, without knowing, in many instances, the motives by which the reporter was actuated, or his qualifications for giving a fair and accurate state- ment. In many cases they are therefore left to form an opinion of structures and functions, not upon evidence weighed and examined, hut on sim- ple assertion, without any regular means of ascer- taining whether it was founded on hypothesis or fact. Thus Haller, the most learned of all physiologists, in a case beyond the reach of his own observations, by trusting the assertion of Sir John Floyer, has maintained that the pulse increases in frequency from the Pole to the Equator, though Sir John, afterwards changing his hypothesis, published a table to shew in what manner its frequency increas- ed through all the intermediate degrees of latitude, from the Equator towards the Pole. As such in- MLECTURE FIFTH. 162 stances of careless inquiry are rare in Haller, and a sort of novelties, I shall mention another:—In enu- merating the authors that have contributed to im- prove anatomy and physiology, he informs us of two in the same page, whom he does not appear, how- ever, to have read,—a Thomas Reid that writes In- quiries into the Human Mind upon the Principles of Common Sense, and a Bartholomew Ruspini that writes a treatise on the Teeth and Gums. Thus, writ- ing on report, he was surely little aware at the time, that the Thomas Reid, whom he mentions so slightly, was a scholar and philosopher of the first-rate dis- tinction, and one who now enjoys a posthumous fame that is likely to be as immortal as his own. But if Haller was liable to such errors in the few instan- ces where he trusted to report, to what a number must they be exposed who have no other evi- dence on which they can reason ? If Harvey had implicitly received the explanations which his mas- ter, Fabricius ab Aqua Pendente, gave of the pro- cesses which he saw in the veins, he had never made the immortal discovery of the circulation. But he wished to see them with his own eyes, and to see them operating; and, in making these inquiries, he found they were valves compelling the blood always to flow in the same direction through these ves-163 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. : sek He proved this by his various dissections of t the lower animals; for no man was ever a more ar- ’ dent admirer than he of Comparative Anatomy, or 1 felt such contempt for hypothetical reasoning, how- ' eVCr “lgenious- In llis opinion, it was weakness of t intellect only, a want of genius, and a despicable in. 1 dolence that could render us content with any thing * short of actual experiment and observation. He li informs us himself that a common reproach thrown K. out against him was-that he dissected frogs, ser- j P]e”tS’ flies’and other vi,e animals ; but he adds, that ! the m°re he laboul'ed> and the more he was fatigued in these operations, the more pleasure he always re- | '71' 1 e3Sily bdieVe that this was fact- e dissection of a new species of animal must always l present manyphenomena.and new phenomena, on re- peated dissections. In thiswayComparative Anatomy * beC°meS 3 S°UrCe “Continued novelty and endless va- i. nety.and yet he who pursues it,delighted sufficiently with observing the varieties that he partly anticipat- ' m3y °ften meet with faets which no analogy could - have led him to expect, and which no human in- tellect could possibly foresee. Thus, in dissecting a ve dog, Asellius, by mere accident, first saw t°he * vessels that conveyed nourishment from the intes- ines. By a similar accident, Pecquet saw the yes-164 LECTURE FIFTH. sel which received that nourishment and sent it to the bloood. By a third set of accidents, and all in the opening of live dogs, a Dane, a Swede, and an Englishman, observed vessels arising from every part of the body, and sending more fluids into the vessel discovered by Pecquet. These vessels were not so much as suspected by Harvey ; and yet the late Dr. Hunter of London, the late Dr. Mon- ro of Edinburgh, and the late Mr. Hewson, by ex- tending their researches in Comparative Anatomy, have proved them an essential part of the system in man, quadrupeds, birds, and fishes. By observa- tions that were likewise accidental, many have dis- covered that the hair and some other coverings of animals, whether they were natural or artificial, have occasionally emitted electric sparks. By other, merely accidental observations, it has been discover- ed, that some species of animals can discharge strong electrical shocks, and have been found, on research, to contain electric batteries for the purpose. The most singular, however, of all these accidental discoveries, with respect to its consequences, was that of Galvani. Who, for instance, could have foreseen, when he was dissecting the limbs of a frog, and surprised at their tremulous motion, that this casual occurrence should immediately have led to the discovery o aCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 165 new fluid, a most powerful and general agent in nature ? and who, even then, could have anticipated the consequences that followed, that by this fluid, Sir Humphrey Davy should have been enabled to dis- cover a number of other substances, likewise gene- ral agents in nature, and by such discoveries an- nihilate a number of favourite theories, and establish a new era in chemistry ? It would be easy to enu- merate more, and a great many more, that have been made in a similar manner, and thrown much light upon Physiology. But though such discoveries have frequently been of the greatest utility, and can never be expected in forming a hypothesis, or in re- tailing the experiments of others, 1 would not re- commend Comparative Anatomy merely from the hopes of occasionally stumbling on them. Compa- rative Anatomy is different from a mine of gems or a lottery. Independent of these casual dis- coveries, many of which may still be reserved for future inquirers, it never fails to afford adequate and certain rewards, to every one that with zeal and spirit turns his attention to it. It affords clear and ocular demonstration that all animals are constructed on the same general outline, and only varied as to class, order, genus, and species.166 LECTURE FIFTH. It points out many relations that subsist between the varieties of function and organs—between the varieties of organs and instincts—and be- tween the instincts and external circumstances. It points out many relations between the forms and habits of the species—between the different organs of sense, and the objects that invite or threaten them from without—between certain appearances in the brain and the rapid or slow developement of the instincts—between the organs of digestion and the food—between the organs of defence and attack, and the corresponding dispositions—between the organs of respiration and the animal temperature—between the ratio of the brain to the spinal marrow, and the natural sagacity common to the species—and be- tween that ratio and the power of reproduction or tenacity of life—between certain ramifications of the bloodvessels and the natural slowness or velocity of motion—between other distributions of the blood- vessels and the attitudes of the parts on which they are ramified. On the other hand, to prevent us from running into an extreme, from ascribing too much to the organs, and from supposing that the instincts, the habits, and characters of animals are, in all cases, to be regulated by them, it furnishesCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 167 us with instances, numerous and diversified, where similar functions are connected with quite different organs, and similar organs with different functions. The philosopher would err, who, from cursorily ex- amining the outward form, or internal structure of the hare and the rabbit, should thence imagine that they have similar instincts and habits. He would err if he thought that the same individuals might not have very different instincts at different times, when they watch over and provide for their offspring, and when they repel them, cease to care for them, or even to know them. He who has studied the singular varieties of the human character, will cer- tainly admit these must depend much less on any visible changes of the organs than upon the agent that secretly directs them and remains un- seen. Even many changes may take place in the organs, and, by their reaction on the ruling agent, ' occasion many peculiar sensations, that cannot be traced up to their origin. Thus, what can be the cause that every individual of the same species emits a peculiar variety of effluvia, but some difference in the action of the organs ? a difference, however, which we never can detect, either by dissection or by chemical tests, and should never have supposed.LECTURE FIFTH. 168 unless the dog had casually informed us by his superior acuteness of smell. Those who tell us that every prominent feature of our character is indicated by some variety of the skull, arising from modifications of the brain, seem neither to reflect on the powerful operation of moral causes, nor on that powerful reaction of organs that so frequently disturbs the functions of the brain, and when long continued, even alters its structure. When physiology is better understood, few will be deceived by such theories and fancies. It will be found equally hostile to the too easy credulity of ignorance, the dogmas of error, and the overweening conceit of the sceptic, who, with an intolerable de- gree of bigotry, frequently talks of established laws, as if all the various secrets of nature were unfolded to him, and he were the confident of the Sovereign of the Universe. But, before Physiology can be carried much farther, farther researches must neces- sarily be made in Comparative Anatomy, where much still remains to be discovered, much to be examined with more accuracy, and much still of the structure and functions of our own bodies to be fur- ther illustrated. If much interested, therefore, m this science, let us not be contented with the reports