ANATOMICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. An Ordinary Meeting of the Society was held on Tuesday, November 22, at University College, London, at 5 p.m.—Professor Humphry, F.R.S., President, in the chair. Present—Thirty-three members and visitors. After the minutes of the last meeting had been read and confirmed, the following gentlemen were elected members of the Society :—John Malet Purser, J. Alfred Scott, Francis Heuston, Professor Redfern, E. H. Bennett, Professor Pye, James Chambers, F. Wardrop Griffith, Campbell Williams, Percy Flemming, Edgar H. Thane, Sinclair Long, and Ambrose Birmingham. The following were then announced for election at the next meeting :—Stanley Boyd, T. E. Little, J. Torrens, and Alfred Banks. Dr Mott then read his paper on The Minute Anatomy of Clarke’s Column of the Spinal Cord of Man, the Monkey, and the Dog, which will be printed in extenso in the April number of the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxii. (n.s. vol. ii.), and was illustrated by numerous histological specimens and micro-photos of specimens. Dr Alex. Hill was surprised at the measurements of the cells of Clarke’s column given by Dr Mott, and in speaking of their develop- ment, said they appeared after those of the anterior column. Professor Charles Stewart asked what fibres proceeded from th<\ cells which Dr Mott had drawn. Dr Mott replied that his method was calculated to show the exact size of the cells, and that they all had fibres. Professor Bertram Windle then read a paper on the Arteries at the Base of the Brain, which paper is printed in extenso in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxii. (n.s. vol. ii.), p. 289. Mr Black spoke of a case in which the internal carotid made a complete spiral before entering the skull. Professor Alex. Macalister mentioned cases of divided basilar artery, and said the evidence went to show’ that all median arteries were formed by fusion. bVlll PROCEEDINGS OF THE A paper by Robert Howden, M.B, on Variations in the llippo- campus Major and Eminentia Collaterals was then read. This paper was illustrated by numerous casts of brains, and drawings, and is printed in extenso in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxii. (n.s. vol. ii.), p. 283. Mr Arthur Thomson wished to know whether the casts had been made before or after the brains had been hardened, and spoke of changes in shape which might ensue through the action of spirit. Sir William Turner, in the absence of Mr Howden, said the moulds were obtained from hardened brains, and by means of plaster of Paris. From these moulds casts were taken with a composition of glycerine and gelatine, thickened with oxide of zinc and a small quantity of arsenious acid. The following paper, by David Hepburn, M.B., was then read :■— A Needle in the Spinal Canal transfixing the Roots of Spinal Nerves. David Hepburn, M.B., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy, University of Edinburgh. That the tissues of the living body are to a remarkable degree tolerant of pure metals is a fact, in confirmation of which numerous illustrations can be adduced. Thus it is well known that bullets which have lodged in different parts of the human body have lain dormant for long periods without causing special annoyance to, or making their presence felt by, their possessors. Furthermore, needles which have entered the body either remain stationary, or, aided by muscular action, travel long distances from their original point of entrance, or find their way to a free surface, and so perhaps come within the reach of removal. The late Sir James Young Simpson based his method of deligation of arteries by means of acupressure on the tolerance above referred to. As the result of his study of this subject, he formulated a theory called the “ Law of Tolerance of Living Structures for the presence of Foreign Metallic Bodies.” * In support of this law he makes the following statement:— “Metallic bodies -when lodged and embedded without much mechanical contusion or injury in living tissues produce compara- tively little or no irritation by their presence; and if inflammation is excited by their contact, that inflammation is usually limited to the first or adhesive stage, unless the contact at any point or points is so excessive as to produce ulceration by the mere effect of morbid pressure” (Acupressure, p. 457, 1864). A curious specimen which serves still further to illustrate this tolerance, came under my notice in the Practical Anatomy Rooms of the University of Edinburgh. From the circumstances of the case it was not possible to obtain any clinical history. The subject was a female. In the course of the dissection of the back, and as the lamina)ANATOMICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND, ix were being sawn through preparatory to opening the spinal canal a piece of steel of the thickness of a sacking needle was discovered piercing the right ligamentum subflavum between the lamina) of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra; close to their articular processes. It did not project external to the lamina), but, on opening the spinal canal, it was found to pierce first the trunk of a spinal nerve and then to pass through the opening in the dura mater which gave exit to this nerve. The spinal cord and its membranes were next carefully removed from the spinal canal, and an incision made through the dura mater along its posterior aspect. This revealed the fact that the piece of metal was an inch in length, pointed and sharp at its inner end. In its course through the cauda equina a number of nerve roots had been involved, some being impaled, while others were matted together by lymph of sufficient age to be firm and dense. Careful examination showed that altogether six anterior and two posterior nerve roots were so affected. These were the anterior roots of the 4th and 5th lumbar, and of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral nerves j the posterior root of the 1st lumbar (in part), and the 3rd lumbar nerve. That part of the needle which passed amidst the nerve fibres was ensheathed in lymph, but the sharp end, half an inch in length, was free. The needle was blackened but not rusted. The muscles of the limb supplied by the above nerves did not present any signs of atrophy when compared with those of the opposite limb. In reply to Dr Mott,’ Sir William Turner said no degeneration had been observed in the spinal cord. Professor Struthers gave an account of his methods of preparing and preserving the brain, museum specimens, and dissections. 1. (a) The Brain.—First Stage, the usual process by immersion in spirit, the membranes having been removed at once in water. This may take from ten to fourteen days according to the strength of the spirit, and the frequency with which it is changed. It should not be carried too far, so as to avoid too much hardening.—Second Stage, let the brain lie out for a day to allow the spirit to evaporate. Then place it in the following mixture of glycerine and carbolic acid,— clear glycerine 4 parts, clear carbolic acid 1 part. He had lately used the proportion of 8 of glycerine to 1 of carbolic acid. Two or three days in this fluid will suffice. Take the brain out and allow the glycerine to drip off until only a moist state remains. The brain may now be placed under a glass shade to keep off dust. When thus prepared the convolutions are tough, flexible, and elastic, so that they may be separated down to the bottom of the sulci. The lobes and particular convolutions may then be stained with various pig- ments applied with a brush. To show simply the lobes, his method is to stain the temporal and parietal lobes, leaving the frontal and occipital lobes uncoloured; and in separated hemispheres to stain cPROCEEDINGS OF T1IE X of a different colour also the circumcallosal gyrus. The above method enabled the brain to be handled freely, to lie out for demonstration simply under a glass shade, or to be mounted in jars, without fluid, for the museum shelves. He had many years ago applied this process to all his series of brains, human and com- parative, prepared by the old spirit process, and found it a great facility and convenience. It may be applied to brains that have been any length of time in museums in spirit. He did not think Giacomini’s method (see this Journal, vol. xiii., 1879, p. 282) so good, unless it is wished to have the brain of almost stony hardness, like a plaster cast, not admitting of the convolutions being opened out. That was the result of Giacomini’s zinc stage. He showed two brains of the sheep and two human hemispheres, prepared carefully at the same time by the two processes, as an experiment for comparison. Those by Giacomini’s process were not only too much hardened, but had shrunk very much in size. (b) Moist Method for Museum Specimens.—Inject with spirit, to which some glycerine and carbolic acid have been added, if the part admits of injection; but injection is not necessary. Saturate with the glycerine and carbolic acid mixture. But undiluted glycerine will harden too much. The proportion is glycerine 2 to 1 of water, and to 8 parts of this fluid add 1 part of carbolic acid. When glycerine is used to soften, as during dissection, the proportion should be glycerine and water equal parts. It is not necessary to immerse < the part in the fluid, it may be sponged on it or otherwise applied so as to saturate. Immersion may harden too much. Then allow to drip, till only the moist condition remains. Thus prepared, the viscus or dissection is mounted in a museum jar without any fluid, simply in the moist condition and no longer dropping. It may be variously suspended within the jar, as by being fixed to a plate of glass or to a surrounding galvanised iron wire. The glass top may be cemented, or may be applied loose, retained by Goodsir’s bronze ring. The advantages of this method, over that by having the jar filled wdth spirit, are that there is no optical distortion, that it is more economical in the end, and, if the loose cover and bronze ring are employed, that it may be conveniently taken out at any time for closer examination or demonstration. Preparations of the bladder, prostate, uterus, heart, brain (prepared specially as above), the joints, &c., and dissections of the hand, foot, &c., may be con- veniently mounted thus and placed on the museum shelves. The method may be employed equally for pathological specimens. (c) Moist Method for Dissections— Larger dissections, as of the ligaments, muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, viscera, &c., are prepared in the above method (b), and are useful in teaching in addition to the recent dissections. They do not dry like spirit preparations, and may lie out in the dissecting-room or museum simply under a glass shade to keep off dust. This method may mostly supersede the spiritr basins at present fashionable in some dissecting-rooms, and by changing them from time to time, according to the stage of the