DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. 59 between the 2d and 3d visceral arches disappears, although in rare cases it has been seen to persist as a cleft or branchial fissure in the neck. The 4th visceral arch and corresponding clefts disappear, and leave no representatives in the neck. ■4. Since the time when Oken and Goethe propounded the theory that the skull was built up of several vertebrae, the Vertebral Structure of the skull has led to much discussion amongst anatomists. Every one admits that the skull is in series with the spine, that the cranial cavity is continuous with the spinal canal, and that the cranial vault is formed in the wall of the embryonic cerebro-spinal canal. The skull also, like the spine, is transversely segmented, but whether we regard these segments as vertebra or not will depend upon the conception we enter- tain of the meaning of the term vertebra. If with Owen we define a vertebra to be “ one of those segments of the endo-skeleton which con- stitute the axis of the body and the protective canals of the nervous and vascular trunks,” then we may support the vertebral nature of the cranial segments on the following grounds :—1 st, The presence of a series of bones extending forwards from the foramen magnum along the basis cranii, in series with the bodies of the spinal vertebrte,—e.g., the basi-occipital, post-sphenoid, pre-sphenoid, mes-ethmoid (fig. 7); 2d, The presence of a series of neural arches which enclose and com- plete the wall of the cranial cavity, and lie in series with the neural arches of the spinal vertebra,—e.g., the ex- and supra-occipitals, which form the neural arches of the basi-occipital segment; the ali-sphenoids and parietals, which form the neural arches of the post-sphenoid segment; the orbito-sphenoids and frontal, which form the neural arches of the pre-sphenoid segment; the lateral ethmoid and nasal, which form the neural arches of the ethmoido-nasal segment; 3d, The presence of a series of visceral arches of which the mandibular and stylo-hyoidean enclose the alimentary and vascular canals, just as the ribs enclose them in the thorax ; and 4th, The presence of foramina between the cranial segments, like the intervertebral foramina between the spinal vertebra, for the transmission of nerves,—e.g., the sphenoidal fissure and the jugular foramen. But if we are to regard a vertebra as a segment of the axial skeleton, which in the course of its formation passes through a definite series of developmental changes, the cranial segments cannot be regarded as vertebra in the same sense as the spinal segments ; for, lsi, The chorda dorsalis is not co-equal in length with the basis cranii, as it is with the bodies of the spinal vertebra, so that if the basi-occipital and post- sphenoid segments, the bodies of which are developed around it, were to be regarded as cranial vertebra, the pre-splienoidal and ethmoido- nasal would not be morphologically the same, as they are formed in front of the anterior end of the chorda. 2d, Proto-vertebrae are formed