210 ANATOMY. optic tlialamus, and shuts out the choroid plexus from the interior of the ventricular cavity. About the third month the adjacent inner faces of the two hemispheres partially fuse together, and form a tri- angular shaped grey expansion, the septum lucidum, whilst the space left between them is the 5th ventricle, which is not, like the other ventricles, derived from the axial canal of the cerebro-spinal tube, but is a portion of the mesial longitudinal fissure enclosed by the imper- fect fusion of the adjacent inner faces of the two hemispheres. In the more posterior and lower part of the septum lucidum the transverse fibres of the anterior commissure appear, which pass through the two corpora striata ; also the fibres of the anterior pillars of the fornix, which grow downwards to join the corpora albicantia, and also extend backwards along each hippocampus major as the posterior pillar of the fornix and tenia hippocampi. At the upper and anterior part of the septum lucidum the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum arise, which pass across the mesial plane, form the floor of the great longi- tudinal fissure, enter the white core of each hemisphere, and end in the grey surface of'the mantle. The grey outer surface of the mantle of each hemisphere is at first smooth, but in the course of time furrows appear, which divide it into convolutions and lobes. The fissura hippocampi appears about the third month, and extends along the inner face of the hemisphere ; it corresponds on the surface to the hippocampus major within the ven- tricle. Then the calcarine fissure appears, which corresponds on the surface to the calcar avis within the posterior cornu of the ven- tricle. At the beginning of the fourth month the parieto-occipital fissure is formed, which corresponds to an elevation on the inner wall of the posterior cornu, called by Henle the bulbus cornu posterioris. The Sylvian fissure appears on the outer face of the hemisphere about the fourth month, and the fissure of Eolando at the sixth month. Springing from the antero-inferior part of each hemisphere is the Olfactory Lobe, which is prolonged forwards as the olfactory peduncle and bulb. The cavity of the lateral ventricle is continued into the peduncle and bulb, but subsequently it disappears, and both bulb and stalk become solid. Owing to the great development of the mantle of the hemispheres in the human brain, and the size and complexity of the convolutions, the hemispheres grow forward so as to overlap the olfactory bulbs and peduncles, and backward so as to conceal the corpora striata and optic thalami as well as the corpora quadrigemina, crura cerebri, cerebellum, pons, and medulla oblongata ; so that when the human brain is looked at from above, none of these structures can be seen. It is only when the brain is turned over, and its base exposed, that the medulla, pons, cerebellum, and crura are visible; and before the corpora quadri-