DEVELOPMENT OF ORGANS OF GENERATION. 857 form a common passage for a considerable distance ; but at their anterior ends they always remain distinct. The further develop- ment of the Mullerian ducts varies materially in the two sexes. In the male they almost entirely disappear, and are represented in the adult by the pedunculated hydatid of Morgagni, situated at the summit of the testicle, which is the persistent remains of the anterior end of the duct, and by the vesicula prostatica, which is the conjoined portion of the posterior ends of the two ducts that had coalesced in the genital cord. Banks is of opinion that the small cysts, sometimes situated alongside of the epididymis, may also be ■remains of the anterior part of the Mullerian duct. In the female the ducts of Miiller become greatly developed, and form the genital tubes and passages. The anterior end of each duct remains distinct, and becomes the Fallopian tube, whilst the posterior coalesced portions are converted into the uterus and vagina. The greater or less extent of this coalescence accounts for the production of the simple uterus, or the several varieties of double uteri that occur in different mammals, or that are found as variations in the human female. The tissue of the genital cord, which surrounds and connects together the Wolffian and Mullerian ducts, becomes converted in the male into the prostate gland, and in the female into the intermediate tissue between the urethra and vagina. In both sexes the genital, urinary, and intestinal tubes open on the perineal surface of the embryo by a common outlet, or cloaca, up to the seventh or eighth week of embryo life. A partition then forms in this cloaca, which divides it into a posterior or anal part, and an anterior part, named the uro-genital sinus, which serves as a common space for the termination of the urinary Wolffian and Mullerian ducts. The female urethra and the prostatic part of the male urethra, situated above the vesicula prostatica and the orifices of the ejaculatory ducts, are formed from that part of the urogenital sinus which lies above the orifices of the Miil- erian and Wolffian ducts ; whilst the lower part of this sinus ultimately forms the vestibule in the female, and the lower part of the prostatic and the membranous part of the urethra in the male. A fold appears at the front of the uro-genital sinus, named the genital eminence, which differentiates into the penis or clitoris. In the male it is grooved on its under surface, and this uro-genital groove, by the development of a pair of folds, which grow together to meet below in the mesial line, subsequently closes in to form 3 i