ANATOMY. 58 lary lobes from each other, also the visceral arches on each side, but these lobes and arches subsequently coalesce in the mesial line, and close up the front of the face and upper part of the neck. A bar of cartilage, the palato-pterygoid, appears in the inner edge of each maxillo-palatine lobe, in the anterior end of which the palate bone arises, in the pos- terior the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. The superior maxilla, malar, and lachrymal bones arise in the same lobe,, but from ossification in membrane. The human superior maxilla, as was pointed out by Vieq d’Azyr and by Goethe, represents both the superior and pre-maxillary bones- of other vertebrates, as is proved by a suture not unfrequently seen on the palate between the canine and outermost incisor tooth, and by the persistence of a distinct fissure between them in some forms of hare-lip and cleft palate. Th-. Kcllliker has seen in embryos of the 8th or 9th week a distinct centre of ossification for the human premaxilla. The vomer ossifies in the fibrous membrane which covers the sides of the lower and posterior part of the septal cartilage of the nose. Between the fronto-nasal and maxillo-palatine lobes is a fissure, the eye slit, in which the eyeball is developed, and which becomes the orbit and lachrymo-nasal duct. Between the maxillo-palatine lobe and 1st visceral arch is the primi- tive mouth slit, which, by the growth inwards of the palate plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones, becomes converted into the nasal and buccal cavities. When the plates do not meet and articulate niesially, then the central form of cleft palate is produced. The pair of incisive foramina are the remains of the primitive communication between the nose and mouth. The visceral arches are all post-oral, and are separated from each other by clefts or fissures, like the bran- chial or gill clefts of a fish. In the 1st visceral or mandibular arch, a cartilaginous rod appears, called Meckel's cartilage; the proximal end of this rod becomes enclosed in the cavity of the tympanum, and ossifies as the malleus; around the rest of the rod the lower jaw arises from ossification in membrane, and the cartilage itself atrophies and disappears. In the 2d visceral, or stylo-hyoid arch, a cartilaginous rod appears ; the proximal end of this rod becomes enclosed in the tympanum, and ossifies as the incus ; the rest of the rod becomes converted into the tympano-hyal and stylo-liyal elements of the styloid process of the temporal bone, the stylo-hyoid ligament,, and the small cornu of the hyoid. The stapes by some is also regarded as an ossifi- cation of this cartilage, but Parker has shown it to be a special ossification of the peri-otic cartilage in the region of the fenestra ovalis. Between the 1st and 2d visceral arches is the ear slit, which becomes the Eustachian tube, the tympanum, and the external auditory meatus. In the 3d visceral or tliyro-hyoid arch, a rod of cartilage forms which ossifies as the great cornu and body of the hyoid bone. The slit