139 ENDOTHELIUM. which the salivary glands, the mammae, the lachrymal glands, and the pancreas are good examples. Nerve epithelium is the specially modified epithelium on certain sensory mucous surfaces, as the olfactory area of the nasal mucous membrane, the taste area of the mucous membrane of the tongue : also a special arrangement of cells in the retina and membranous labyrinth. The nerve epithelium has intimate relations with the nerves ending in these sense organs, and will be described in Chapter YI. Development oe Epithelium. Botli the epiblast and hypoblast layer of the blastoderm serve as surfaces of origin for epithelial cells, and it is believed that the epithelial covering of the genital mucous membrane is derived from a differentiation of certain of the cells of the mesoblast. The cells of the hypoblast give origin to the epithelium of the alimentary canal below the mouth, and to the epithelium of the various glands which open into this part of the digestive tract; also to the epithelial lining of the windpipe and air cells ; also to the epithelial lining of the urinary bladder. The epiblast gives origin to the epidermal covering of the skin, the epithelial cells lining the sweat glands, sebaceous glands, and mammae, which are in anatomical continuity with the epidermal cells; also to the epithelial lining of the mouth and the salivary glands opening into it; also to the epithelial lining of the nose and of the glands connected with its mucous membrane. But, further, the epithelial cells lining the cerebral ventricles, central canal of the spinal cord, and membranous labyrinth, are primarily derived from the cells of the epiblast. For though these canals and spaces are, when development is completed, shut off' from all connexion with the outer surface of the body, yet they are originally continuous with the layer of epiblast, and only become discontinuous with it, when from the great development of the adjacent part of the mesoblast, required for the formation of the bony walls which enclose the labyrinth and cerebro-spinal nervous axis, the original connexion is severed. Endothelium. The free surfaces covered by an endothelium are the serous membranes, the inner surface of the wall of the