ANATOMY. 130 colourless, but afterwards assume a red colour. In mammals the earliest red blood corpuscles are nucleated and larger than the future red discs, but as development goes on, non-nucleated red corpuscles appear, and as their number increases, both absolutely and relatively with the progress of the fcetus, in course of time all the nucleated red corpuscles have disappeared, and are replaced by non-nucleated discs. In adults the red corpuscles are believed to be derived from the white corpuscles, though the exact process of metamorphosis has not been satisfactorily ascertained. It is also believed that red corpuscles may be new-formed in the spleen, and Neumann has stated that the cells of the red marrow of the bones may serve as a centre of origin for the red blood corpuscles. In the fcetus the liver apparently serves as a centre of origin for the white corpuscles, but its blood corpuscle form- ing function ceases at the time of birth. Throughout extra-uterine life the spleen and the lymphatic glands are without doubt organs of formation of the colourless corpuscles,—those produced in the lymphatic glands, under the name of lymph corpuscles, being mingled with the blood-stream where the fluid lymph flows into the venous system. When mixed with the blood, the lymph corpuscles become the white blood corpuscles. Corpuscles are also found in the blood of the invertebrata. They are as a rule colourless, but R. Wagner pointed out that in the Ceplialojsods they are coloured. They are sometimes round, at others oval or fusiform, aud in worms and insects have even branched pro- cesses. They are always nucleated. The Lymph and Chyle. The Lymph is the fluid found in the division of the vascular system named the lymph-vascular system. It is transparent and colourless, and contains numerous cor- puscles floating in it, which correspond, in appearance, structure, and the possession of the property of amoeboid movements, to the white corpuscles of the blood. The lymph corpuscles are formed in the lymph-glands situated in the course of the lymph vessels, and are carried away from the glands by the stream of lymph which flows through them. The Chyle is a milky fluid found during the period of digestion in the delicate lacteal vessels which arise in the