DEVELOPMENT OF VASCULAR SYSTEM. 581 The trunk of the pulmonary artery is the other division of the truncus communis arteriosus. It is continuous with the 5th pair of vascular arches. Of these the 5th right arch atrophies, and dis- appears at an early period of embryonic life. The 5th left arch again increases in size, forms the ductus arteriosus, or Botalian duct, and conveys the blood directly from the trunk of the pul- monary artery into the aorta, immediately beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. From the 5th left arch two collateral twigs arise, the one of which passes to the root of the right lung, the other to that of the left lung, and form the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery. After the birth of the child, when respira- tion by the lungs commences, the ductus arteriosus begins to close, and in the second or third week has shrivelled up into a fibrous cord ; the right and left pulmonary arteries also increase in size, so as to convey all the blood of the right or pulmonic side of the heart into the lungs. In birds and reptiles, the right pulmonary artery is developed from the right 5th vascular arch, and the left pulmonary artery from the left 5th vascular arch,! so that in these animals there are two Botalian ducts during foetal life, and in some families of reptiles these are found even in the adult. In birds the arch of the aorta is de- veloped from the 4th right vascular arch and right dorsal aortic root, and arches above the right bronchus, so that the aorta in this class is a right aorta. Sometimes in the human body the arch of the aorta follows the avian and not the mammalian type of development, and a right and not a left aorta is pre- sent. In reptiles, again, both 4th vascular arches, with the corresponding parts of the dorsal aortic roots, persist, so that, the aorta is a double aorta, an arch existing both on the right and left sides. A few cases have been seen in Fl?’ 1(’0;.Sc,leITIC *?f t’le m0(1(5 of formation of a double arch of man in which the aorta possessed this the aorta, through the persisr- reptilian arrangement. S*.? wdVe^dSS But the vascular arches and aortic adjacent dorsal aortic roots, roots may undergo other metamorphoses than those above de- scribed, which may lead to the production of other variations in the