THE BRAIN—MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 251 ternal arciform fibres. Near the anterior median fissure it contains nerve cells, the arciform nucleus of the raphe (fig. 80). Between the raphe and the roots of the 9th nerve, as they pass from their nuclei of origin, is the white formcctio reticularis formed by internal arciform fibres in- tersecting the basis bundle of the anterior column; which bundle, as it reaches the medulla, leaves the surface and sinks into its substance to lie on the dorsal aspect of the anterior pyramid (fig. 80). Fibres ascend from it through the pons as the posterior longitudinal fasciculus. Between the roots of origin of the 8th and the 9th nerve, and deeper than and external to the olive is the grey formatio reticu- laris., in which fibres of the lateral column of the cord, apparently those of the mixed zone, and internal arciform fibres are commingled with the broken up grey matter of the peripheral part of the anterior cornu. Some of these fibres, together with fibres of the white formatio reticularis from the anterior column form the fasciculus teres on the floor of the 4th ventricle (fig. 83). This fasciculus ascends on the back of the pons to the corpora quadrigemina and optic thalamus. Internal or deep arciform fibres arch across the two halves of the medulla and through the septum. Many of these spring from the funiculus cuneatus and posterior pyramid of the restiform body, and traverse the formatio reticularis, the corpus dentatum of the olive and the acces- sory olives, and are joined by fibres of the pedunculus olivse. The structure of the Medulla Oblongata shows it to be both a nerve centre and a conductor of nervous impulses. The nerve cells of the grey matter on the floor of the 4th ventricle give origin to the hypo- glossal nerve, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastrie, and in part the fifth, accessory and auditory nerves. It is therefore the centre for the movements of the tongue and for deglutition ; it is the respiratory centre, and it regulates the action of the heart. Moreover, an area on