229 SPINAL NERVES. do not as a rule pass directly to the brain, though it is possible that some may do so. From the observations of Stilling the white matter of the cord opposite the 2nd cervical nerve contains only about half as many nerve fibres as there are in the whole of the anterior and posterior nerve roots collectively. The fibres of the nerve roots end to a large extent in the grey matter, and that grey matter in its turn gives origin to nerve fibres which enter the white substance and ascend to the brain. Motor impulses are conducted downwards by the pyramidal tracts in the antero-lateralcolumns, or accordingtoLudwigonlybythelateral columns. Sensory impulses are usually regarded as conducted through the poste- rior columns, though Ludwig places their path of conduction also in the lateral columns. The cord is through its grey matter the great nerve centre concerned in reflex excito-motory actions, or rather it consists of a series of nerve centres, arranged in transverse segments, and cor- responding to the transverse segmentation of the spinal nerves ; but the adjacent transverse segments are connected together. The lumbar swelling contains the centres for the nerves of the lower limb ; the brachial swelling the centres for the upper limb. The centre for the nerves of the ball of the thumb has been localised at the origin of the 8th cervical nerve. Some of the vaso-motor nerves probably have their centres in the spinal cord. The oculo- or citio-spinal centre, situated at the junction of the cervical and dorsal parts of the cord, regulates the vessels of the head, the dilator of the iris, &c., and the fibres pass along the anterior nerve roots into the cervical part of the sympathetic cord. The genito-spinal centre, situated in the lumbar swelling is the centre for the bladder, rectum and vasa deferentia. It must, also, be remembered that the two halves of the cord are anato- mically continuous with each other through the nerve fibres of the commissures, so that it acts as a single organ, and not as two organs. Origin, Arrangement, and Distribution of the Spinal Nerves. The spinal cord gives origin to thirty-one pairs of Spinal nerves, which pass out of the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, and have a transversely segmented arrangement. These nerves are arranged in groups, corresponding to the groups of vertebrae, and their formula is as follows: C8D12L6S6GoCl = 31. Of the eight pairs of Cervical nerves ; the 1st or sub-occipital emerges between