55 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. and at first is said to form a continuous cartilaginous investment for it, but subsequently the cartilage becomes segmented. About the same time a differentiation of the mesoblast cells in the dorsal laminae into cartilaginous neural arcbes takes place and thirty-three cartila- ginous vertebra; arise, corresponding in number to the future osseous vertebrae. The formation of these cartilaginous vertebrae is completed in the human embryo about the fourth month of intra-uterine life. The bodies of the cartilaginous vertebrae are connected together by plates or discs of intervening fibro-cartilage, which are also developed around the chorda dorsalis. After the enclosure of the rod-like chorda by the cartilaginous vertebrae and the inter-vertebral discs it disappears, no remains being found in the adirlt human body, or in that of the higher vertebrates, except perhaps some slight traces in the soft pulpy centres of the inter-vertebral discs; in Cyclostomata and in the cartilaginous fish it remains as a more or less complete structure throughout life. In each of the cartilaginous vertebras bone begins to form and to spread beyond its original point of formation, which is called a centre of ossification; the greater part of a vertebral body is,formed from one of these centres, and each half of the neural arch from another ; whilst small ossific centres arise for the tips of the spinous, transverse, and mam- millary processes, and a special plate appears for both the upper and lower surfaces of the body; the fusion of the various centres together to form a complete vertebra takes place between the twentieth and twenty-fifth year. The Atlas has a separate centre for each lateral mass with its half of the neural arch, and one for the anterior arch. The Axis, in addition to the ossific centres found in the vertebrae generally, has one or two for the odontoid process. The 7th cervical vertebra has the anterior bar of its transverse process developed from a separate centre. Each coccygeal vertebra possesses only a single centre, which represents the body of the bone. About the time when the dorsal laminae meet to enclose the epiblast, which becomes developed into the brain and spinal cord, the germinal layers of the young embryo grow towards its anterior or ventral sur- face. A splitting of the mesoblast on each side of the vertebral region into two layers, a somato-pleure, or body-wall layer, and a splanclmo- pleure, or visceral-wall layer takes place. The somato-pleure on each side, and the epiblast covering it, eventually meet in the ventral mesial line, and enclose the body cavity in which the thoracic and abdominal viscera are developed. In the somato-pleure on each side of the body cavity twelve cartilaginous rods, the future ribs, are developed; and, connected with the anterior ends of the seven pairs of upper ribs, the cartilaginous sternum is formed. Each rib ossifies from one centre for its shaft, and one each for the head and tubercle. The sternum ossifies in transverse segments,—one for the pre-sternum,