60 ANATOMY. in the spine, hut not in the basis cranii. 3d, The spine is transversely segmented in its cartilaginous stage of development, but the skull is not. 4th, The transverse segmentation of the skull only appears when the bones are formed, but the individuality of the segments becomes again concealed by the fusion of the pre- and post-sphenoids and the basi-occipital into a continuous bar of bone, a condition which is not found in the spine except in the sacro-coccygeal region. 5th, The neural arches in the spine are, like the bodies, ossified in cartilage, but in the cranium they are for the most part ossified in membrane. These differences in the mode of development of the spine and skull may be summarised as below :— Spine. Stage. 2 d Stage. 3d Stage. ith Stage. Unsegmented Proto- Segmented Segmented chorda iu whole vertebrae. cartilage. bones. length. Skull. Unsegmented No proto- Unsegmented Segmented chorda vertebra. cartilage and bones. in part. membrane. It is evident, therefore, that, although both skull and spine are de- veloped in the mesoblast walls of the primitive groove, yet, to quote the words of Huxley, “ though they are identical in general plan of con- struction, the two begin to diverge as soon as the one puts on the special character of a skull and the other that of a vertebral column ; the skull is no more a modified vertebral column than the vertebral column is a modified skull.” The Limbs, at their first appearance, sprout like little buds or lappets from the sides of the trunk. They consist of mesoblast invested by the epiblast from which the cuticle is derived. A portion of the meso- blast differentiates into cartilage which assumes the shape of the future bones, and as the limbs grow outwards, manifestations of joints appear, and the division of each limb into its several segments takes place. The clavicle is the first to ossify, its centre appearing about the 6th week, and the ossification of the shaft is in fibrous membrane though the ends are cartilaginous, and a central axis of cartilage occupies the shaft (Gegenbaur). The scapula ossifies from one centre for its ex- panded plate and spine, two small centres each for the acromion and vertebral border, and one for the coracoid. In many vertebrates, more especially birds and reptiles, the coracoid is a distiuct bone from the scapula, but they articulate with each other to form the glenoid fossa. Each of the three rod-like bones of which the innominate bone is com- posed ossifies from one centre for the shaft of the bone, and one for each extremity ; in the ilium these terminal centres are situated at the