300 ANATOMY. tion by disease of certain convolutions impairs or destroys particular functions. Variations within certain limits in the degree of complexity of arrangement of the convolutions are found in the human brain. The observations of Gratiolet and Marshall on the brains of women of the Bush race have shown that in them a greater simplicity of arrangement prevails, due to the foldings of the surface being less numerous than in the average European brain. Again, the observations of .Rudolph and Hermann Wagner on the brains of Gauss and Dirichlet, the eminent mathematicians, show that the convoluted surface was much more tor- tuous, and the superficial area of the convolutions was considerably greater than in the average European brain. From these and other data, it is evident that a complex arrangement of the convolutions may co-exist with high intellectual powers. But it must also be admitted that men of undoubted intellectual ability have been found to possess brains in which the convolutions had no unusually complex arrange- ment. In endeavouring to form an estimate of the comparative value of the convolutions in different individuals, not only should the degree of tortuosity of the surface be inquired into, but the depth of the sulci, the thickness of the grey matter, and the quality of the tissue of which the convolutions are composed. A brain with deep sulci, conjoined with a thick layer of grey matter, but with comparatively simple gyri, might present as large a hemispherical ganglion as one the convolutions of which were more tortuous but less deep. That grey matter is presumably the most active Which contains the greatest proportion of nerve cells in a given area. From the structural point of view, one may say that those convolutions present the most complex organisation iu which with a large proportion of nerve cells, the foldings of the sur- face are tortuous, the sulci are numerous and deep, and the grey matter possesses relatively considerable thickness. As regards the convolutions in opposite hemispheres of the same brain, it should be stated that a want of symmetry within certain limits is by no means uncommon. Mass and Weight of the Brain. The human brain is absolutely bigger and heavier than the brain of any animal, except the elephant and the larger whales. The brain of the elephant weighs from 8 to 10 lbs., and that of a large finner whale between 5 and 6 lbs. The human brain is also heavier relatively to the bulk and weight of the body than are the brains of the lower animals, except in some small birds and mammals. Considerable vari- ations, however, exist in the size and weight of the human brain, both in the different races of mankind, and in individuals of the same race and in the two sexes. The heaviest brains occur in the white races.