ANATOMY. 204 seen in the concentric lamellae, and Hoyer has shown that flat endothelial-like cells exist on the inner surface of these lamellae, the intervals between which may be regarded as lymph spaces. Entering the attached pole of the corpuscle, and lying in the axis of the stalk, is a nerve fibre which extends along the central core of protoplasm, and usually terminates in a slight bulbous enlargement. The nerve fibre parts with its perineurial sheath as it enters the Pacinian corpuscle; it loses its medullary substance at its entrance into the core, so that its terminal part consists only of the axial cylinder. Sometimes the nerve fibre divides into two branches within the corpuscle. Capillary blood-vessels are distributed to the concentric layers of the Pacinian corpuscle. Development oe Nervous Tissue. The development of this tissue is still involved in some obscurity. The nerve tissue of the brain and spinal cord is universally admitted to be derived from the epiblast, and it has been customary to regard the spinal ganglia and nerves, and the sympathetic, as derived from the mesoblast. The researches of His, Balfour, and Marshall, however, have shown that these parts also are of epiblastic origin. The cells of the epiblast, which are converted into nerve cells, assume character- istically granular and finely fibrillated contents, and processes or poles appear at the periphery of the cells, which, according to the observa- tions of Beale, connect adjacent cells together. As the growth of the part goes on, the cells are more widely separated from each other, and the anastomosing processes in consequence become considerably elon- gated, and form the axial cylinder of the nerve fibre. In the course of time the medullary sheath and the primitive membrane may form around this axial cylinder so as to insulate it. The exact mode of formation of the medullary sheath and the primitive membrane of the nerve fibre is not properly understood; but it is believed that the perineurial connective tissue is derived from surrounding mesoblast cells which differentiate into connective tissue. Of the two originally contiguous cells from which the nerve fibre is, as it were, spun out, one, according to Hensen, may form a cell in a nerve centre, the other