ANATOMY. 774 tlie embryo, the splanchno-pleure and Fjg. 217.—Transverse section through the body of an embryo Chick about the 3rd day. d, dorsal, and v, ventral surface of embryo; N, neural axis; c, central canal; ch, chorda dorsalis; pv, protovertebr*; m. m, mesobiast; e, e, epiblast; ao, aorta; A, primitive alimentary canal; /i, hypoblast; H, heart; m, endocardium; sp, splanch- no-pleure ; s, somato-pleure; pp, pieuro-peritonealcavity; 6, b, divided vessels in thewall of the body. Modi- fied from Schenk. hypoblast are included with- in the thoracico-abdominal cham- ber. The splitting of the meso- biast into two layers occasions a cavity between the somato-pleure and splanchno-pleure, which cavity forms the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. The Primitive A limentary Canal is a straight, or almost straight tube, and lies in relation to the ventral surface of the chorda dorsalis, and the bodies of the vertebrae which are developed around the chorda. From its anterior closed end, or the fore- gut, are developed the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and duo- denum. From its posterior closed end, or the liind gut, are developed the rectum, and sigmoid flexure of the colon. From its inter- mediate part, or the middle gut, are developed the jejunum and ileum, the ccecum, and the greater part of the colon. . In the differentiation of the walls of the primitive tube, which leads to the formation of these different divisions of the alimen- tary canal, the cells of the hypo- blast are transformed into the epi- thelium situated on the surface of its mucous membrane, whilst the mscular and connective, tissues, the vascular and nervous structures a the wall of the several divisions of the canal, are differentiated o m the cells of the mesobiast. _ • • The primitive pharynx is the most anterior pai 0 ! ive alimentary canal, and is enclosed by the visceral and vascular relies in the head of the embryo. As the pharynx hes in the mbryo head, the splitting of the mesobiast into the two definite xyersof somato-pleure and splanchno pleure, is not seen m con