ANATOMY. 170 Endo-chondral Ossification.—The pieces of cartilage in which bone forms have the same shape as the bones themselves, and each piece of cartilage is invested by perichondrium which in time becomes the peri- osteum. The perichondrium like the periosteum consists of two layers, an external fibrous and an internal or osteogenetic layer containing numerous osteo-blast cells. When the process of ossification in tem- porary cartilage begins, a change takes place in the arrangement of the cartilage cells at the centre, or point, or nucleus of ossification. These cells, instead of preserving their irregularly scattered arrangement in the matrix, are now collected into longitudinal parallel rows, not unlike what was described in a previous section, in the deep zone of encrust- ing cartilage. In each row the cells lie with their long axes transverse, and proliferate by transverse fission. The cells at the end of the rows which lie nearest the centre of ossific change swell out and become more rounded. Calcification of the matrix substance, which separates both the adjacent parallel rows of cells, and the cells in the same row, from each other, then takes place, which calcification includes also the capsules of the cartilage cells. A general opacity of the cartilage is the result of this calcification, and the further progress of ossification is rendered obscure. It is necessary, therefore, to dissolve out by an acid the calcareous matter, in order to follow the steps of the process. Irregular spaces or channels now form in the cartilage through absorption of its calcified matrix and of the capsules of the cartilage cells, and the corresponding cartilage cells themselves at the same time undergo disintegration. These channels are called the medullary spaces, and they are bounded and separated from each other by beams or trabecuke of the calcified cartilage, which has not been absorbed. The medullary spaces are occupied by blood-vessels and quantities of rounded cells, not unlike leucocytes in size and appearance, which con- stitute the primary medulla or marrow. Eespecting the source of origin of the cells of this medulla, there have been difficulties in arriving at a correct conclusion. Henke conceived that they might be blood corpuscles migrated from the blood- vessels within the spaces. Others have believed them to be derived by proliferation from the cells of the cartilage which have not under- gone disintegration. But the recent observations of Stieda seem satis- factorily to show that the cells of the primary medulla are derived from the osteo-blastic layer of the perichondrium, which is prolonged along with its blood-vessels into the medullary spaces as they form in the ossifying cartilage. But, whatever be their derivation, there can be no doubt that these cells undergo certain modifications which are of the utmost importance in the further stages of the ossific process. A few become elongated iuto fusiform or stellate corpuscles, like those of connective tissue; others have oil drops forming in their interior, and be- come the cells of yellow marrow; others become the many-nucleated cells