161 OSSEOUS TISSUE. by the vessels which ramify in its investing perichondrium. In the foetus, however, and in the large masses of cartilage which are found in the skeletons of the cetacea and of the cartilaginous fishes, the cartilage is permeated by canals in which blood-vessels ramify. The encrusting cartilages are nourished by the blood-vessels of the synovial membrane of the joint, which form a ring of capillary loops around the margin of the cartilage ; and, both in them and in those white fibro-cartilages that do not possess a perichondrium, the vessels of the bone, to which ^these cartilages are as a rule connected, assist in conveying nourishment to the attached surface of the cartilage. In the movable joints, after the child has begun to use its limbs, the synovial membrane is not continued over the free surface of the articular cartilage, but stops at its margin at the ring of capillary loops. In the foetus, however, it has been stated that both blood-vessels and synovial membrane are prolonged over the free surface of the articular cartilage. The termination of nerves in cartilage has not been ascer- tained. f Development of Cartilage. In tlie development of hyaline cartilage the contents of the embry- onic mesoblast cells where the cartilage is to be produced, become clear, and a cell wall differentiates around the exterior of the cell. The nuclei in the cells divide and subdivide, so that a multiplication of the cells by endogenous reproduction takes place. Hyaline matrix sub- stance then appears between the cells and forms the cell capsule ; it is believed to be produced by a special conversion of successive layers of the cell protoplasm into a substance which yields chondrine on boiling. The fibro-cartilages, both white and yellow, but especially the latter, yield but little chondrine on boiling, for the fibrous matrix of the white fibro-cartilage is a gelatine yielding substance, like the white fibres of connective tissue, whilst the fibres of the yellow fibro-cartilage partake of the nature of elastic tissue. The fibro-cartilages, therefore, form a group which links together the connective and cartilaginous tissues. L