GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON CELLS. 123 the epiblast or hypoblast, or perhaps from both. In the process of conversion or transformation of the protoplasm of the cells of these three layers into the several tissues and organs, a differentiation of form and structure [i.e., a morphological or histological differentiation), and of composition (i.e., a chemical differentiation) takes place, the result of which is a physiological differentiation, and the tissues and organs become adapted to the performance of special functions. Hence arise the several forms of tissue which occur in the human body and in the higher animals. From the epiblast arise the epidermis and tl e epithelial lining of the nose, mouth, and salivary glands, the nervous system and the sensory expansions of the organs of special sense. From the mesoblast arise the skeleton, the muscular, vascular and connective tissues, and the urinary and generative organs. From the hypoblast ' arise the epithelial lining of the digestive tube, of the windpipe and air cells, and of the glands opening into the digestive canal, with perhaps the chorda dorsalis. Many of the tissues consist exclusively of cells, which present in different parts of the body characteristic modifi- cations in external configuration, in composition, and in properties, as may be seen in the fatty tissue, pigmentary tissue, and epithelium. Other tissues, again, consist partly of cells, and partly of an intermediate material which separates the constituent eells from each other. Here also the cells present various modifications; and the intermediate material, termed the matrix or intercellular substance, varies in structure, in composition, and in properties in the different textures, as is seen in the connective, cartilaginous, osseous, and muscular tissues. It is not an easy matter to devise a classification of the tissues, based on their structural characters, which shall be in all respects logically perfect; but a convenient basis of arrangement for descriptive purposes may be found by dividing them into those which consist—1st, of cells suspended in fluids; 2d, of cells arranged on free surfaces ; 3d, of cells placed interstitially in a matrix.