302 ANATOMY. origin for sensory and motor nerves. Moreover it contains tracts of nerve fibres connecting it with the spinal cord and the nerves which arise from the cord, as well as collections of nerve cells belonging to these tracts. Hence it is both a psychical apparatus and a great sen- sori-motor piece of mechanism. It seems certain, if the adult human brain, even amongst the most uncultivated peoples, falls below 30 oz., that this low weight is not merely incompatible with intellectual power and activity, but is in- variably associated with idiocy or imbecility ; so that the human brain has a minimum weight below which intellectual action is impossible. Amongst the more cultivated races the minimum Weight-limit of in- telligence is, however, in all probability higher than 30 oz. It has been placed by Broca at 32 oz. for the female, and 37 oz. for the male brain ; and Thurnam’s mimbers are almost the same. To how low a weight the brain in the microcephalous idiot may fall is well shown in a case recorded by Theile, where it weighed only 10'6 oz., in Gore’s case of 10 oz. 5 grs., and in Marshall’s case, 8J oz. But instances are not wanting in which the brains of idiots have exceeded even 50 oz. Lang- don Down observed the brain of a male idiot aged 22, which weighed 59-g oz.; and J. B. Take has recently met with a brain of 60 oz. in a male idiot aged 37, the capacity of whose cranium was 110i cubic inches. In the West Biding Asylum the brain weights in 10 idiots were not less than 34 oz., and in 5 cases exceeded 40 oz. As yet the opportunities of weighing the brain in the coloured races of men have been but scanty. But from a very extensive series of observations made by Barnard Davis, not on the brains themselves, but on the cubic capacities of crania, from which an approximate estimate of the brain weight may be obtained With a fair measure of accuracy, the following facts are derived :—The average weight of the male brain in the African races is 45’6 oz.; of the female braiu, 42'7 oz.: the average weight of the male brain in the Australian races is 42‘8 oz.; of the female brain, 39’2 oz.: the average weight of the male brain in the Oceanic races, 46 '5 oz.; of the female brain, 43 oz. The conclusions which may legitimately be drawn from an analysis of Barnard Davis’s observations are as follows :—1st, That the average brain weight is considerably higher in the civilized European than in the savage races ; 2d, That the range of variation is much greater in the former than in the latter ; 3d, That there is an absence, almost complete, of specimens heavier than 54 oz. in the exotic races, so that the higher terms of the series are not represented ; 4th, That though the male brains are heavier than the female, there is not the same amount of difference in the average braiu weight between the two sexes in the uncultivated as in the cultivated peoples. No reliable determinations have as yet been made of the exact pro-