56 ANATOMY. one or sometimes two for each of the four subdivisions of the meso- sternum, and one for the xiphi-sternum. The complete ossification and fusion of the different parts of the sternum into a single bone does not take place until an advanced age. The Axial part of the skeleton, formed by the vertebra, ribs, and sternum, is built up of a series of thirty-three transverse segments, equal in number, therefore, to the bones of the spine; so that each vertebra, according as it is, or is not, articulated with a pair of ribs and a segment of the sternum, constitutes a complete or incomplete transverse segment. These several segments are serially homologous with each other, but the homology is not so complete in some of the segments as in the others. In the coccygeal, sacral, and lumbar regions of man and most vertebrates, only the vertebral portion of each skeletal segment is represented, though in the abdominal wall of the crocodiles abdominal ribs and a sternum are developed. In the thoracic region the five lowest dorsal vertebras have five pairs of ribs developed in connection with them ; whilst the seven highest vertebra have not only their corresponding pairs of ribs, but also a sternum, which bone, how- ever, has only six transverse segments. In the cervical region seven vertebra are found, but the anterior bar of the transverse process, although fused with the vertebral body, is homologous with a rib, for in man it sometimes develops as a distinct movable rib in connection with the seventh cervical; and in the crocodiles small movable ribs are regularly developed in connection with the different cervical vertebra. The bodies and neural arches of the vertebras are serially homologous with each other; as a rule this is also the case with their processes, but the articular processes of the atlas and the superior pair of the axis, although functionally analogous, are not homologous with the articular processes of the other vertebra, but with the articular sur- faces for the ribs on the bodies of the dorsal vertebra, for they lie in front of, and not behind, the vertebral notches through which the spinal nerves are transmitted (Cleland). The development of the odontoid process of the axis shows it to be the body of the atlas displaced from its proper bone and fused with the body of the axis. The Skull arises in the membrane-like mesoblast forming the walls of the anterior dilated end of the primitive groove. The anterior end of the chorda dorsalis lies mesial! y in the floor of the embryonic cranium as far as the posterior wall of the pituitary fossa. On each side of and close to the chorda, a bar appears, the parachordal carti- lage of Parker, which extends almost as far forward as the anterior end of the chorda. Two cartilaginous bars, the trabeculse, are also formed below the fore part of the brain, which grow backwards, so as to surround the front and sides of the pituitary fossa. The trabeculae fuse together anteriorly and mesially, whilst posteriorly they coalesce