ANATOMY. 616 bifurcates into the two bronchial tubes.* It is between four and five inches long, and is nearly an inchin its greatest width. Anteriorly and laterally it is cylindrical in form, but it is flattened on its posterior surface. It corresponds to the supra- or epi- sternal fossa in the neck, and to the inter- scapular region on the posterior surface of the chest, on a level with the upper 4 or 5 dorsal vertebrae. In the neck it has anterior to it the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, cervical fascia and skin; opposite its third and fourth rings, it is crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and in front of the lower rings are the inferior thyroid veins : at its sides are the common carotid arte- ries, lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, and recurrent laryngeal nerves ; behind it is the oesophagus. In the thorax it lies behind the manubrium sterni, the sterno- hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid muscles, the fatty remains of the thymus gland, the left innominate vein, the transverse part of the aortic arch, the origins of the innominate and left common carotid arteries, and the deep cardiac plexus of nerves ; on each side is the pleural membrane, but in addition on the right side is the termination of the inno- minate artery, and on the left side are the left common carotid and subclavian arteries, and the left vagus with its recurrent branch : behind is the oesophagus. The Bronchi are two in number, a right and a left. * Many descriptive writers state that the trachea extends from the 5th cervical to the 3d dorsal vertebra. The observations of Braune, on sectious through the neck in frozen bodies, show that the cricoid cartilage lies opposite the 6th cervical vertebra. The bifurcation also takes place lower down than the 3d dorsal vertebra. But it should be remembered that the position of the trachea is modified by changes in the position of the head. When the head is thrown back the trachea is drawn up ; when the chin is approximated to the sternum the trachea is -depressed. ’