778 ANATOMY. of the fore gut takes place, which differentiates into the larynx and trachea. From the lower end of the trachea the two bronchi proceed, which become continuous with the hollow space in the embryo lungs. The characteristic lung substance is produced by repeated divisions and subdivisions of the bronchial tube, and by growth within the lung, which produces the lobular and vesiculai structure of the air cells. The hypoblast cells form the epithelial lining of the windpipe and air cells ; whilst the mesoblast cells dif- ferentiate into the connective tissue of the lungs, its vessels and nerves, and the cartilaginous, muscular and fibrous structures in the walls of the bronchi and air cells. In its general mode of develop- ment the lung closely corresponds with that of a racemose gland; but the alveoli or air vesicles of the lung are not occupied by secret- ing cells as are the vesicles of the racemose glands. The trachea is formed in relation to the ventral aspect of the oesophageal part of the fore gut, and the larynx to the pharnygeal part; the larynx opens into the pharynx. At the ninth week of intra-uterine life the cartilages of the larynx are formed, and the cartilage of the epiglottis, up to about the sixth month, has the structure of hyaline and not of yellow fibro-cartilage. The pleuro-peritoneal cavity, situated between the somato- pleure and splanchno-pleure layers of the mesoblast, becomes lined by an endothelium, produced by a differentiation of the mesoblast cells situated next to the free surface of each layer. As the splanch- no-pleure layer differentiates into the outer coats of the several viscera which have just been described, the cells covering its free surface form the endothelium of the visceral layer of the serous membrane enveloping the viscera; whilst the cellular covering of the somato-pleure layer forms the endothelium of the free surface of the parietal part of the serous membrane. The pleuro-peri- toneal cavity on each side of the body of the embryo is one chamber, but, by the development of the diaphragm, the pleura and lung become shut off from the peritoneum and abdominal viscera. Occa- sionally, the development of the diaphragm is incomplete, and a communication remains between the pleural and peritoneal cham - bers. Through the gap the abdominal viscera may project into the pleural sac and occasion a diaphragmatic hernia. The heart was originally in relation to the pleuro-peritoneal space, but becomes shut off from it by the development of the fibro-serous wall of the pericardium.