ANATOMY. 62 limb been an appendage of the rib-arches of those segments. Owen’s argument for regarding the scapula and coracoid as the costal arch of the occipital vertebra is because in fish the scapula is attached to the occipital boue by a bone which Cuvier called the supra-scapula, and which he believed to be homologous with the supra-scapular cartilage of other vertebrates. Parker has however pointed out that the so-called supra-scapula of a fish is not homologous with the supra-scapula of a reptile or mammal, that it is not a cartilage bone, but is a splint or scale- like bone, developed as a part of the dermo-skeleton. Between the scapula and coracoid and the innominate bone, anatomists have long recognised serial homologies to exist; the scapula is generally admitted to be the homotype of the ilium and the coracoid of the ischium, so that if these elements of the shoulder girdle be not a costal arch, neither can those of the pelvic girdle. The clavicle has by some been regarded as the homotype of the os pubis ; but in all probability the os pubis is homologous with the procoracoid bone which is found in the amphibia and some reptiles, but is absent in crocodiles, birds, and mammals ; whilst the shaft of the clavicle is represented in the pelvic girdle, not by a bone, but by a fibrous band called Poupart’s ligament. Between the bones of the shafts of the limbs homologies exist: the humerus is the homotype of the femur, the radius of the tibia, the ulna of the fibula ; whilst the patella has no representative in the human upper limb. The scaphoid and semilunar bones in the carpus are homotypes of the astragalus in the tarsus, the cuneiform is the homotype of the os calcis, the cuboid of the unciform, the trapezium of the ento-cunei- forra, the trapezoid of the meso- and the os magnum of the ecto-cunei- form. The tarsal scaphoid is not, as a rule, represented in the human carpus, but its homotype is the os centrale found in many mammals. The carpal pisiform is a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of a muscle. The metacarpal bones and phalanges are homologous with the metatarsal bones and phalanges ; the thumb with the great toe, and the fingers with the four outer toes. During the growth of the limbs outward, and their change from the simple lappet-like form to their elongated condition, a rotation of the proximal segment of the shaft takes place—that of the upper limb a quarter of a circle back- ward, that of the lower limb a quarter of a circle forward—to produce in the former case a supine position of the fore-arm and hand, with the thumb as the outermost digit; in the latter case, a prone condition of the leg and foot, with the great toe as the innermost digit. The range of movement at the radio-ulnar joints enables us, however, to pronate the hand and fore-arm by throwing the radius across the ulna, so as to make the thumb the innermost digit. In many quadrupeds the fore- leg is fixed in this position, so that these animals walk on the soles of both the fore and hind feet.