376 ANATOMY. regard the vestibule as the part of the labyrinth by which sound or mere noise is determined; the cochlea, as the part which determines variations and degrees of sound, as musical notes or harmony; the semicircular canals, as determining the directions from which sound proceeds. But within the last few years experiments and arguments have been advanced almost simultaneously by Breuer, Mach, and Crum Brown, in favour of the view that the semicircular canals act as peripheral end-organs for the sense of rotation, by which sense the axis about which rotation of the head takes place, the direction of that rota- tion, and its rate, are determined. Development op Ear. In the account of the development of the skull, p. 58, it was stated that the external meatus, tympanum, and Eustachian tube are the remains of the 1st visceral cleft of the embryo; that the malleus and incus are formed in the 1st and 2d visceral arches, and that the stapes and petrous bone are ossified in the periotic cartilage. The mem- branous labyrinth arises as an invagination of the epiblast into the mesoblast, near the upper end of the 1st visceral cleft, and the invagi- nated fold then closes in, by the growth of the surrounding mesoblast, and forms a shut sac, the primary auditory vesicle. The cavity of this vesicle enlarges, thickening of its walls takes place, and in this manner arise modifications in its form, from the condition of a simple closed sac, until the membranous vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea are produced. From the epiblast lining of the vesicle, the organ of Corti, and the special apparatus connected with the termina- tion of the auditory nerve in the vestibule and semicircular canals, together with the general epithelial lining of the membranous labyrinth, are derived. The fibro-membranous wall of the [labyrinth, and the periotic cartilage which subsequently ossifies into the petrous bone, are produced by a differentiation of the mesoblast surrounding the auditory vesicle. The space filled by perilymph, between the mem- branous and osseous labyrinth, is apparently due to a splitting of this surrounding mesoblast. The auditory nerve arises from the neural crest of epiblast from which the cranial nerves generally proceed. In the course of time its central end unites with the part of the brain from which it derives its roots, and its peripheral end extends into the epiblast lining of the labyrinth, which forms the peripheral end organs of the auditory apparatus.