392 ANATOMY. fingers on the summit of tlie delicate ridges, where they may be seen with a pocket lens. In the axilla and groin the sweat glands are much larger than in the skin generally. Development of Skin. Tlie Cutis, its vessels and nerves, and the peripheral end organs connected with the nerves of touch, are produced hy a differentiation of the cells of the mesoblast. The two layers of the Epidermis, with the cellular prolongations into the hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and sweat glands, are differentiations of the cells of the epiblast. The Sweat Glands arise as flask-shaped pouches of the rete Malpigliii projecting into the cutis, which in course of time become elongated into tubes, and the cells contained in these tubes become the secreting cells of the gland. Hairs are developed about the 4th month of embryo life, within depression^ in the cutis, which form the future hair follicles, filled with cells similar to, and continuous with the epiblast cells of the rete Malpigliii. A papilla forms at the bottom of this depression, around which the cells become arranged in a bulbous expansion. The cells, in line with the bulb, elongate and harden, and group themselves so as to form the shaft of the young hair, which at this stage is completely buried within the follicle. A rapid production of new cells takes place at the bulb, the hair consequently increases in length, and is pushed outwards through the superficial homy stratum of the cuticle, which had closed in the mouth of the depression or follicle in which the hair is produced. At the same time, the more external cells within the follicle are pushed outwards towards its wall, and form the cells of the root-sheath. When a hair is pulled out of its follicle the cells of the root-sheath are drawn out along with it. A new hair will be developed at the bottom of a follicle from which the hair has been shed as long as cells continue to be formed around the papilla. When the growth of cells ceases and the hair follicles and papillae atrophy, then permanent baldness is the result. The Sebaceous Glands are developed as bud-like offshoots from the hair follicles, filled, like the follicles themselves, with cells continuous with tlie epiblast cells of the rete Malpigliii. Instead of tlie cells in these buds differentiating into a hair, they become filled with fatty particles, and the wall of the bud assumes the characteristic sacculated form of the gland.