DEVELOPMENT OF ORGANS OF GENERATION. 855 comes enclosed within the abdominal cavity. The allantois itself appears as a hollow bud-like diverticulum from the primitive hind gut, and grows not only into the pleuro-peritoneal cavity, but beyond the body cavity, so as to come into contact with the outer envelope of the ovum, and assist in the formation of the secondary or persistent chorion. The wall of the allantoic bud consists ex- ternally of cells derived from the mesoblast, which develop into a vascular connective tissue, and internally of cells derived from the hypoblast, which form the epithelial lining of the sac of the allan- tois, and are continuous with the hypoblast epithelial lining of the primitive hind gut. As the development of the walls of the abdomen advances, the part of the allantois connecting its extra- abdominal and intra-abdominal portions becomes attenuated into a slender peduncle, until finally, in the human subject, all communi- cation between the two disappears. The intra-abdominal part of the sac becomes the urinary bladder, and the attenuated peduncle forms the urachus. The Genital Glands in the two sexes arise in close relation to the Wolffian body from the same intermediate cell mass. The develop- ment of the ovary and ova has already been described (p. 832), and it has been shown that the ova arise by an involution and subsequent development of the germ-epithelium corpuscles covering the surface of the intermediate cell mass, in the seat of development of the ovary ; whilst the vascular stroma of connective tissue, the walls of the Graafian follicles, and the cells of the membrana granulosa, proceed from the subjacent structures continuous with the inter- stitial tissue of the Wolffian body. The Testicle is also produced in the same locality, but its tubular gland structure apparently proceeds from a differentiation of the cells of the subjacent interstitial tissue, and not from the super- ficial germ-epithelium, which loses its columnar form and probably becomes the squamous endothelium of the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis testis. In the human embryo the sexual distinct- ness of the genital glands is said to be apparent about the 7th and 8th week, and, from Kolliker’s observations, the tubes of the testicle can be recognised about the 10th week. Subsequently they grow longer, branch, assume their characteristic arrangement and struc- ture, and form the tubuli seminiferi of the lobes of the testis, the vasa recta, and the rete testis. The more superficial parts of the interstitial tissue differentiate into the connective tissue of the tunica albuginea. The small body situated at the summit of the Wolflian body