57 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. with the parachordal cartilages, which by this time have invested the chorda dorsalis. External to each parachordal the periotic cartilage forms the ear capsule, which fuses with the parachordal cartilage. In this way a continuous mass of cartilage lies along the floor of the ■embryonic cranium. This cartilage grows backwards, encloses the foramen magnum, and forms the occipital end of the cranium. The trabecular cartilages grow forwards into the nasal region and form the mesethmoid septal cartilage and the lateral ethmoid or ethmo-turbinal cartilages. The cartilage in the region of the pituitary fossa grows outwards, as the ali-sphenoids and orbito-sphenoids. In this manner an unsegmented cartilaginous base or floor of the cranium arises, which represents the ethmoidal, sphenoidal, periotic, and occipital regions of the cranium. In the occipital cartilaginous area the basi- and ex- occipitals arise, each from a separate centre of ossification; whilst the supra-occipital, situated below the protuberance and superior curved line, arises from a pair of centres ; the part of the supra-occipital above the curved line, which represents the interparietal bone found in some mammals, arises from another pair of centres in the membranous cranium; the whole ultimately coalesce to form the occipital bone. In the sphenoidal cartilaginous area the pre-sphenoid and orbito- sphenoids arise by the coalescence of two pairs of ossific centres ; the post-sphenoid by the coalescence of one or two pairs of centres ; each ali-sphenoid from a single centre, from which the external pterygoid is also produced; each internal pterygoid from a centre in the pterygo- palatine bar of cartilage. The sphenoidal spongy bones arise in mem- brane in front of the pre-sphenoid. By the fusion of these different parts the sphenoid is formed. In the ethmoidal cartilaginous area the mes-ethmoid and lateral masses arise each from a distinct centre, which join to form the ethmoid bone. Below the ethmoid each inferior tur- binal arises in cartilage from a single centre. In the periotic cartila- ginous capsule the petro-mastoid part of the temporal arises by the fusion of at least three centres, peri-, pro-, and opisth-otic, and sub- sequently blends with the squamoso-zygomatic and tympanic elements which ossify each from a distinct centre in the membranous cranium. The mesoblast forming the vault of the cranium does not differentiate into cartilage, but remains membranous, and in it, in addition to the portions of the occipital and temporal bones already referred to, the two parietal bones and the two halves of the frontal bone arise each from a distinct centre. The face is formed by a mesial fronto-nasal lobe which grows downwards, and in which the nasal bones are formed by ossification in membrane; by a pair of lateral maxillo-palatine lobes and by four pairs of visceral or branchial arches, situated below the maxillary, the three lowest pairs of which contribute to the forma- tion of the neck. A mesial cleft at first separates the pair of maxil-