273 THE BRAIN—CEREBRUM for the attachment of muscles, by variations in the thick- ness of the diploe, and by the development of the frontal and mastoid air-sinuses. Hence the outer surface of the skull does not precisely correspond in shape to the outside of the brain. The Central Lobe of the hemisphere, more usually called the Insula or Island of Reil (fig. 88 C), does not come to the surface of the hemisphere, but lies deeply within the Sylvian fissure, the convolutions forming the margin of which conceal it. It consists of four or five short convolutions, which radiate from the locus perforatus anticus, situated at the inuer end of the Sylvian fissure. This lobe is almost entirely surrounded by a deep fissure, the sulcus insulsc, which insulates it from the adjacent frontal and parietal convolutions. The claustrum and nucleus lenticularis are deeper and internal to it. It lies opposite the articulation of the alisphenoid with the parietal and squamous-temporal bones. If the convolutions on the outer face of the hemisphere be now examined, not so much with reference to their dis- position in the individual lobes as to their general arrange- letters are placed on the angular convolution. IPP, the infero- postero-parietal area of the skull; the letters are placed on the mid- temporo-sphenoidal convolution; the temporal ridge separates the supero- and infero-parietal regions from each other; a vertical linn drawn from the squamous to the sagittal suture through the parietal eminence separates the antero- and postero-parietal regions. X, the convolution of the parietal eminence, or supra-marginal gyrus. 0, the occipital area of the skull lies below the lambdoidal suture ; the letter is placed on the mid-occipital convolution. Sq, the squamoso-temporal region of the skull; the letters are placed on the mid-temporo-sphen- oidal convolution. AS, the ali-sphenoid region of the skull; the letters are placed on the tip of the supero-temporo-sphenoidal con- volution. The black lines mark the boundaries of the different cranial areas. S