ANATOMY. 298 The longitudinal inferior fasciculus lies external to the posterior cornu, and connects the occipital with the temporal convolutions. The longitudinal superior fasciculus lies in the centrum ovale and connects the convolutions of the frontal with those of the occipital lobe. Longitudinal septal fibres lie on the inner surface of the septum lucidum, and extend into the gyrus fornicatus. The Fornix belongs in part to the association system of fibres. Schwalbe holds that it connects the grey matter of the septum lucidum with that of the dentate gyrus, and that these structures together constitute an internal margined gyrus, which bounds the great transverse fissure. Meynert, however, maintains that as the anterior pillars of the fornix emerge from the optic thalami, the fornix forms a part of the peduncular arrangements of that ganglion. d. Nerve Roots.—The roots of the olfactory and optic nerves will be described in Chapter vi. Cerebral Organology. The Cerebrum is both a conductor of nerve impulses through its nerve fibres and a nerve centre. The cerebral ganglia and the eentral grey matter are important sensory and motor centres and the seats of reflex actions. Of the two great basal ganglia the corpus striatum is associated with motion, the optic thalamus with sensation. The con- volutions or hemispherical ganglia, again, are the seat of psychical activity; though there is also reason to believe that they are associated with the discharge of sensori-motor functions. The question has often been put, Are not the individual convolutions distinct organs, each endowed with special functions 1 and various arguments based on anatomical, physiological, and pathological grounds have been ad- vanced in support of this proposition. In connection with the anatomical branch of the argument it may be stated that the convolutions, not only in man, but in all animals with convoluted brains, have a form, relative position, and arrangement which ai'e characteristic of the species ; but specialisation of form, position, and arrangement are not in themselves a sufficient test of specialisation of function. Again, though the con- volutions have definite forms they are not disconnected from each