ANATOMY. 152 tlie network is usually regarded as formed of stellate anastomosing cells. In tlie gelatinous and fibrous forms an intercellular matrix is ex- tensively produced, and exhibits a differentiation into fibres. In the gelatinous form, the cells of the mesoblast become fusiform, caudate, stellate or flattened, and the intercellular matrix is homogeneous or delicately fibrillated. In the fibrous form the matrix is distinctly fibrillated and assumes the characters of the bundles of white fibrous tissue. It has been much disputed whether these white fibres take their rise immediately from the peripheral portion of the cells by a direct differentiation of their protoplasm, or whether this protoplasm is not in the first instance converted into a homogeneous hyaline matrix in which the fibrous differentiation then occurs. There can be no doubt that the fibres are formed by a metamorphosis of the protoplasm of the cells ; but whether the metamorphosis takes place directly, or through the intermediate stage of a homogeneous hyaline matrix, is a secondary question, and in all probability both modes of conversion take place at different times and in different localities. As the differentiation into fibres progresses, the tissue becomes firmer and tougher, and the proportion of the cellular to the fibrous element diminishes. Hence, say in a young tendon, the rows of fixed connec- tive tissue cells are not only closer together, but are much more readily seen than in an adult tendon, in which the increased production of fibres obscures the cellular element. The mode of origin of the Yellow Elastic fibres has also been much discussed. At one time it was believed that they were derived from nuclei, and on this supposition they were named nuclear fibres. But from more recent observations there is reason to believe that they are produced, like the white fibres, by a special differentiation of the proto- plasm of the embryonic cells, or of a homogeneous hyaline, or granular matrix derived from that protoplasm. In such localities as the liga- mentum nuchse, where the fibres are both large and numerous, almost the whole of the cell protoplasm appears to become converted directly or indirectly into elastic tissue. Adipose Tissue. The Adipose or Fatty tissue varies in its amount in different individuals. It is especially found in the yellow marrow of the bones ; as a layer beneath the skin, differing in thickness in different individuals; and collected in the cavity of the abdomen in the folds of peritoneum, known as the mesentery and omenta, in which, and indeed in the