ANATOMY. 154 Development oe Adipose Tissue. ' The close anatomical relation between the adipose and the connective tissues points to a genetic relationship between them. The fixed con- nective tissue-cells situated in relation to blood-vessels may be con- verted into fat cells. The first stage is the appearance of extremely minute drops of oil in the protoplasm of the connective tissue corpuscles of the part; as these run together larger drops are produced, a cell wall at the same time differentiates from the peripheral part of the protoplasm, and as the cell becomes distended with oil, by the conversion into fat of its substance, it swells out into a spherical or ovoid cell, and the nucleus is pushed to the pei-iphery of the cell. Klein has shown that the fatty tissue of the omentum and mesentery is formed by the production of oil drops within the branched cells, which form the reticular tissue that supports the lymphoid cells found so abundantly between these folds of peritoneum. In a lymphoid tumour of the mesentery, which I recently examined, where fatty degeneration had made considerable progress, I found that not only the branched cells, but the lymphoid cells also, had undergone the fatty change. Pigmentary Tissue. In some parts of the body a yellow, brown, or black pigment is found in the interior of cells, which gives to the tissue and organ a characteristic colour. In the coloured races of mankind, and in certain parts of the body of the white races, pigment is produced in fig. 45.—Group of 6-sidea Pig- the cells of the cuticle or epidermis, ment Cells from the choroidal surface of the retina. more especially in the cells of the deeper strata or rete Malpighi. In the connective tissue corpuscles, also, more especially in the dermis of fish, amphibia, and reptiles, pigment is found in considerable abundance. The choroid coat of the eyeball and the choroidal surface of the retina owe the dark brown or black colour to the presence of pigment in the interior of cells. The pigment cells of the choroidal surface of the retina are usually polyhedrons, 5 or 6-sided, and are