JOINTS AND MUSCLES. Ill allowed to swing forward by its own weight, but guided by the muscles, until the toes touch the ground in front of the opposite limb. A step has now been made, and the limbs are in a corresponding but opposite position from that in which they were when the step commenced : a repetition of the act constitutes another step, and so the alternate action continues. At one moment in each step both feet touch the ground at the same time, i.e., when the hind foot presses against the earth. The act of running consists in a repetition of the movements of walking per- formed with so much greater rapidity that the feet never touch the ground at the same moment; the heels also are never brought to the ground. The propulsive action is also greatly increased by the extension of the hip and knee joints, so that a succession of small leaps on to alternate feet takes place. In leaping from the standing position the joints of both lower limbs, previously flexed, are suddenly and simultaneously extended, and the body is projected forwards with a rapid impulse. Development and Homologies op the Voluntary Muscular System. The voluntary muscles, like the bones and joints with which they are so intimately associated, are developed out of the mesoblast, layer of the blastoderm. The muscles of the axial skeleton may be divided into an epi-skeletal group situated outside the endo-skeleton, i.e., be- tween it and the integument—and a hypo-skeletal or haemal group lying on the ventral surface of the vertebral bodies and within the rib arches. The epi-skeletal muscles, are developed from the muscle- plates, which like the vertebra themselves, are formed from the proto- vertebrae, or primitive mesoblastic somites (Balfour), and it is probable that the hypo-skeletal group have the same origin. In fishes the epi- skeletal muscles preserve their fundamental arrangement with but little modification. They are disposed in transverse segments or myotonies, which equal in number the vertebra. These myotomes are separated from each other by bands of fibrous tissue, the inter-muscular septa. In man and the higher vertebrates the simple transversely segmented