THE EYEBALL. 355 ' Development of Eyeball, The primary optic vesicle is an outgrowth of the epiblast of the thalamencephalon, with which it is connected by a hollow peduncle continuous with the cavity of the thalamencephalon. This peduncle subsequently thickens and solidifies and becomes the optic nerve tract. This optic vesicle is covered by the epiblast investment of the embry- onic head, which thickens and becomes involuted superficial to the vesicle, so as to produce a hollow in its front, which gradually deep- ening forms a cup or pocket, the secondary optic vesicle or cup, in which the involuted part of the epiblast is lodged. This cup has double walls, an anterior and a posterior, the former of which becomes the retina proper, the latter the layer of hexagonal pigment cells on its choroidal surface, also the pars ciliaris retinae, and the uvea of the ciliary processes and iris. The cavity between these walls, originally continuous through the canal in the optic nerve with the cavity in the hemisphere, becomes obliterated, so that the retina proper and the pigment layer come into contact with each other. The part of the epiblast lodged in the cup severs its connexion with the superficial epiblast or epidermis, and forms the crystalline lens. It becomes closed in in front by a growth superficial to it, both of mesoblast and epiblast; the mesoblast layer forms the cornea, whilst the superficial epiblast layer forms the anterior epithelium of the cornea, or con- junctival epithelium. Through a want of uniformity in the growth of the wall of the secondary optic vesicle, a fissure, called the choroidal fissure, exists on its under surface, through which the mesoblast passes between the lens and the retina, and forms the vitreous humour, and perhaps the capsule of the lens. This fissure then closes up so that the connexion between the vitreous humour and the surrounding meso- blast is severed. The mesoblast immediately surrounding the optic vesicle then differentiates into the vascular, muscular and connective tissue structures of the choroid, ciliary processes and iris, and into the sclerotic coat. The sclerotic is continuous in front with the mesoblast, out of which the cornea is formed, so as to complete the external tunic of the eyeball, and a band, the funiculas sclersc (Hannover), which traverses the adult sclerotic opposite the fovea centralis, marks the position of the fissure in the embryonic eye. Accessory Parts to the Eyeball. In relation to the eyeball are several accessory parts. The Eye-Brows are projections of the integument, from which short, stiff hairs grow. . The Eye-Lids, or Palpebrse, are two movable curtains, an