331 THE EYEBALL. grooves in the bones of the olfactory region, and form a network from which bundles of fine non-medullated fibres arise that enter the mucous membrane and run between the glands into the epithelial layer. These nerves have a varicose appearance, and though their terminations have not been precisely ascertained, it is believed that they are connected with the varicose central processes of the olfactory cells, which cells are therefore regarded as the peripheral end-organs of the olfactory nerve fibres. The mucous membrane of the nose also receives nasal branches from the 1st and 2d divisions of the 5th cranial nerve. Their mode of termination in that membrane is not known, but they are associated with the sense of touch, and not' with the special sense of smell. Development op Nose. Tlie nose appears on the face of the embryo in the form of a little depression in the epihlast, the nasal pit, which by the growth forward of the mesial trabecular cartilage becomes divided into two nasal fossa;. Each fossa is superficial to the olfactory bulb, which is prolonged for- ward from the corresponding hemisphere vesicle. From the fronto- nasal process the integument and facial part of the nose are formed. At first the rudimentary nasal chambers freely communicate with the cavity of the mouth ; but by the growth inwards, to the mesial line of the palate of the palatal processes of the maxillo-palatine lobes, the cavity of the mouth is shut off from the nose, except where the inci- sive canals remain pervious in the anterior part of the upper jaw bones. As the nasal pits are lined by an involution of the epiblast, the epithelial lining of the nose, including the olfactory cells, is de- rived from the epiblast cells. The osseo-eartilaginous framework of the nose is produced by a differentiation of the mesoblast cells of the embryo head. The Eyeball. The Eyeball, globe or apple of the eye, or organ of vision, is a complex optical apparatus situated in the cavity of the orbit, imbedded to a large extent in loose fat, and