ANATOMY. 172 Haversian lamellae. The vascular and cellular contents of these canals are therefore the remains of the contents of the medullary spaces of the fcetal cartilage, and are continuous with the deeper layer of the periosteum. So long as any cartilage remains in a foetal or young bone the pro- cess of replacement of the cartilaginous tissue by the proper osseous tissue goes on, until none of the cartilage is left, except the thin layer of encrusting cartilage at each articular extremity. Bones grow in length by an ossification in cartilage ; and a provision for their longi- „08. x ,, tudinal increase is fur- nished up to, and even beyond the age of pu- berty, by the plate of cartilage which separates the epiphysis from the shaft of a bone. The ossification of this plate of cartilage marks the period when growth ceases in the long axis of the bone. But bones also grow in thickness, and this addition to their girth takes place by an ossification of material Fig. 57.—Section through a Foetal Bone to illustrate situatecl at tl]eir ciicnm" its development. B, B, the dense osseous tissue, ference. It has already in which the lacuna;, with their soft nucleated nninted out that a contents, may he seen. M, M, the medullary Deen pointed out tnat a tissue in the medullary spaces. OB, OB, layer of bone is invested by a osteo-blastic cells of the medulla, next the osseous , ,, tissue, some of which in places are obviously tll)rous membrane, the becoming included in it. V, V, transversely periosteum, which fulfils divided blood-vessels, surrounded by medulla . cells, situated in medullary spaces, which are tor it the same purpose as assuming the form of Haversian canals. does the perichondrium for the cartilage. The deeper surface of the periosteum like that of the perichondrium has an osteo-genetic layer of osteo-blastic cells, similar to those which lie in the medullary spaces of the fcetal cartilage. These cells pass through a similar series of changes, and produce suc- cessive layers of new bone at the periphery, which constitute the peri- pheral lamellas. The importance of the periosteum as a centre of origin of new bone has, indeed, long been recognised by both surgeons and pathologists. The parts of this membrane in which the special bone-producing power resides is the deep layer of osteo-blastic cells, whilst the blood-vessels furnish the pabulum for their nutrition. If strips of periosteum be removed, along with the cells of the deeper osteo-blastic layer, from a bone, and transplanted to other parts of the living body, bone will continue to be produced by their agency.