120 ANATOMY. The details of the changes in the nucleus have been worked out by Strasburger, Flemming, Klein and others. The nucleus loses its limiting membrane. The intra-nuclear network of fibrils becomes more distinct, the fibrils thicker, more separated and more convoluted and the nucleus larger. The fibrils then form long loops, arranged as a wreath or rosette, and the nucleus becomes flattened and is called the nuclear or equatorial plate. The loops of this plate then arrange them- selves so that they radiate from the centre to the periphery of the plate, when a star-like figure or monaster is formed. Next this star divides into two stars—dyaster—which separate from each other ; the fibrils of each of the two stars become convoluted, anastomose, and form a spherical or oval body, around which a limiting membrane is produced and two new nuclei arise. The cell-protoplasm surrounding the original nucleus also divides and a portion arranges itself around each of the two new nuclei, so that two daughter-cells are formed from the single mother-cell. One of the most characteristic cells is the mammalian Fig. 27.—Ovnm of a Slieep. IF, cell wall or zonu pel- in jts turn lucicia; P, protoplasm or ovum. In it a cell wall exists, known as the zona pellucida or vitelline membrane; within this envelope is the granular yelk or cell contents, in the midst of which is imbedded the nucleus or germinal vesicle, which contains the nucleolus mimti vesMefor germinal spot. The granules of ius, or germmai spot. the yelk are a special metamorphosis of the protoplasmic cell substance. Schwann made the important generalisation that the tissues of the animal body are composed of cells, or of materials derived from cells, “ that there is one universal principle of development for the elementary part of organisms, however different, and that this principle is the formation of cells.” The ovum is the primordial or funda- mental cell, or germ-cell, from which, after being fertilised by the male spermatozoa, the tissues and organs of the animal body are derived. The germinal vesicle loses its