OSSEOUS TISSUE. 171 of red marrow ; others, again, which form the osteo-blasts properly so- called, are the direct agents in the production of the osseous tissue itself. Kolliker has pointed out that the absorption of the calcified cartila- ginous tissue which leads to the production of the medullary spaces is in part at least effected through the agency of colossal, many-nucleated cells (myeloplaxes), which he named osteo-klasts, and believes to be derived from some of the cells of the medulla already described, so that a destruction of the calcified cartilage precedes the formation of the proper osseous tissue. As the absorption of the cartilage goes on, adjacent medullary spaces coal- esce and communicate more or less freely with each other. But along with the destructive changes in the cartilage the production of the new osseous tissue takes place. The cells of the medulla, which become the osteo-blasts, form a layer in contact with the trabeculse of calcified cartilage which form the walls of the medullary spaces, and undergo an important change both in com- position and shape. They become granular, their protoplasm hardens from the periphery towards the nucleated centre of the cell, so as to give origin to the dense matrix substance of a bone lamella-; but the nucleus, and the protoplasm immediately investing it, do not harden,—they form the soft contents of the lacunae and canaliculi, i.e., the bone -corpuscles, which represent therefore in the adult bone the osteo-blast cells by which the osseous tissue has been produced. In this way a network of osseous trabeculce appears, the calcified cartilaginous trabeculae are then absorbed, and embryonal spongy bone is formed. A second layer of osteo-blastic medulla cells then passes through a similar metamorphosis, and a second lamella is formed. By a repetition of this process around the walls of the several medullary spaces, the lamellae of the bone are produced. H ence it would appear that the dense solid matrix of the osseous tissue is produced by a special hardening of the protoplasm of the osteo-blastic cells in the medullary spaces, and as layer after layer of these cells is ossified suc- cessive lamelke arise. The persistence, however, of the nucleus of each osteo-blast, and of a small portion of its investing protoplasm, preserves within the hard matrix a certain amount of soft material, which being destroyed when a bone is macerated, leaves the lacunary and canalicular system already described. The formation of successive lamellae, which takes place from the periphery towards the centre of the medullary spaces, necessarily diminishes the size of the spaces, which then form the Haversian canals, and the lamellae surrounding these canals are the Fig. 5G. Colossal many-nucleated Os- teo-kiast, occupying a cavity in M, the surrounding matrix. {After Kolliker.)