AXIAL SKELETON—HEAD. 35 their openings that in the face they look downwards. The floor of the nose is formed by the palates and superior maxillae ; the roof by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, frontal, nasal, and sphenoidal spongy bones. The nostrils are separated from each other by a vertical mesial partition composed of the mes-ethmoid, vomer, and triangular nasal cartilage, the last-named of which projects forward beyond the anterior surface of the upper jaw, and contributes materially to the prominence of the nose. The outer wall of each nostril is formed by the superior maxilla, palate, nasal, internal pterygoid, and convoluted turbinals : the turbinals are separated from each other by horizontal passages extend- ing antero-posteriorly; the superior passage or meatus lies between the superior and middle turbinals of the ethmoid, and is continued into the sphenoidal and posterior ethmoidal air-sinuses; the middle meatus lies between the middle and inferior turbinals, and is continued into the frontal, anterior ethmoidal, and maxillary air-sinuses. These sinuses are therefore extensions of the nasal chamber or respiratory passage, and correspond with the air cavities which exist in so many of the bones of birds. The inferior meatus lies between the inferior turbinal and the floor of the nose; into its anterior part the nasal duct opens, which conveys the tears from the front of the eyeball. The posterior openings of the nose are separated from each other by the hinder edge of the vomer, and are placed between the internal pterygoid plates of the sphenoid. The skull varies in appearance at different periods of life. In infancy the face is small, about gth of the size of the entire head, for the teeth are still rudimentary and the jaws are feeble ; the centres of ossi- fication of the cranial bones are prominent ; the forehead projects ; the skull is widest at the parietal eminences ; the air-sinuses, and bony ridges corresponding to them, have not formed. In the adult