208 ANATOMY. flexure takes place more posteriorly, in the region of the foramen magnum, where the brain and spinal cord become continuous with each other. The Posterior Cerebral Vesicle (hind-brain) undergoes a great thick- ening of its walls and gives origin to the Medulla Oblongata, Cere- bellum and Pons Varolii. The posterior or lower part forms the medulla oblongata, which is continuous with the spinal cord. Shallow anterior and posterior median fissures appear in it, which divide it into two lateral halves, and each lateral half differentiates into grey matter and a longitudinal arrangement of nerve fibres continuous with the columns of the cord. The cerebellum appears as a thickening in the posterior wall of the upper end of this vesicle and, as it grows backward, a deep bend takes place between it and the medulla. It consists at first of a cefitral lobe only, and in the lower vertebrates does not ad- vance beyond this stage. In mammals, including man, two lateral lobes or hemispheres are superadded, and, with their growth, numer- ous transversely arranged nerve fibres arise, which produce the thicken- ing in the floor of the vesicle called the pons. The axial space in the vesicle lies between the cerebellum and medulla and forms the dilatation called 4th ventricle. The cerebellum is connected below with the medulla oblongata by the pair of restiform bodies or inferior peduncles, and above with the corpora quadrigemina by the pair of superior peduncles. The Middle Cereb-al Vesicle (mid-brain) corresponds to the region of the cranial flexure. Its walls thicken and differentiate, the roof into the Optic Lobes, the floor into the Crura Cerebri, the sides into the Corpora Geniculata Interna, whilst the axial canal becomes the aqueduct of Sylvius. At first the optic lobes form a single structure, but about the sixth month of embryo life a median furrow divides this structure into two lateral halves (the corpora bigemina), and in the lower verte- brates the development does not proceed beyond this stage ; but in the seventh month of embryo life of the human foetus each lateral half is subdivided into two by a transverse fissure, so that four bodies (the Corpora Quadrigemina) are produced. The crura cerebri form the two cerebral peduncles, which, diverging from each other, pass upwards to the hemispheres of the cerebrum. They consist almost entirely of nerve fibres continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the pons, a few of which go to the corpora quadrigemina, but the greater number ascend to the cerebral ganglia and hemispheres. The Anterior Cerebral Vesicle (primitive fore-brain) is an unpaired vesicle when it first appears. Soon it gives off a bud on each side the primary optic vesicle. The primitive fore-brain is then prolonged for- wards and divided by an oblique constriction into a posterior part, the Thalamencephalon, and an anterior part, the Prosencephalon.