DEVELOPMENT OF NERVOUS SYSTEM. 207 plierally to tlie epithelial layer differentiate into the nerve cells and fibres of the brain and spinal cord. In the part of the cerebro-spinal tube which becomes the Spinal Cord the axial canal persists as the central canal of the spinal cord, and is lined by a layer of ciliated cylindrical epithelium. The cells outside this epithelium differentiate into the grey and white matter of the cord. The grey matter, which contains the nerve cells, is prolonged into a crescent shaped body in each lateral half of the cord, and the horns of each crescent form the anterior and posterior cornua. Outside the grey matter, and forming therefore the peripheral part of the cord, is the white matter, which is arranged in a series of longitudinal columns of nerve fibres. These fibres are derived from the most external cells .of the involuted epiblast. The anterior cornua and columns in each half of the cord then increase in size and enclose between them a ventral mesial fissure, the anterior fissure, and at the bottom of this fissure the anterior commissure is formed. Subsequently a dorsal or posterior mesial fissure appears in the whole length of the cord, and its appearance is coincident with a reduction in calibre of the central canal, which is much larger in the embryo than in the adult. At the bottom of the posterior fissure is the posterior commissure which along with the anterior commissure connects the two lateral halves of the cord together. The anterior or cerebral end of the cerebro-spinal tube becomes the Encephalon, or Brain. At first the cerebral part of this tube is uni- form in appearance with the spinal part, but it soon expands into three vesicular dilatations—the Primary Cerebral Vesicles. These vesicles, named (from before backwards) anterior vesicle or fore-brain, middle vesicle or mid-brain, and posterior vesicle or hind-brain, are separated from each other by transverse constrictions. As each vesicle is an expansion of the cerebro-spinal tube, it is necessarily hollow, and its axial canal is continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord. In the walls of these vesicles the nervous tissues and organs, which form the several divisions of the encephalon, are produced by a differentiation of their epiblast cells. The most internal layer of these cells differ- entiates into the epithelial lining of the central portion of the axial neural canal, which canal is known from below upwards by the names of central canal of medulla oblongata, 4th ventricle, aqueduct of Sylvius, 3d ventricle, and two lateral ventxicles. A curvature takes place in the axis of the encephalon in the region of the mid-brain, by which the fore-brain is bent downwards at an angle with the hind brain. This flexure corresponds with the cranial flexure in the base of the skull in the region of the pituitary fossa, where the notochord ends anteri- orly, and where the demarcation takes place between the occipito- sphenoid and the sphenoido-ethinoid parts of the basis cranii. Another