61 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. crest and acetabulum ; in tbe ischium, at tbe tuber and acetabulum ; and in the os pubis, at tbe symphysis and acetabulum. Each of the long bones of the shafts of the limbs ossifies from a single centre for the shaft, and one or more centres for each articular extremity. Each carpal and tarsal bone ossifies from a single centre, except the os calcis, which possesses an independent centre for its posterior surface. The metacarpal and metatarsal bones and the phalanges ossify each from two centres, one for the shaft and one for one of the extremities. In the metacarpal bones of the fingers and in the four outer metatarsals, the distal end is that which ossifies independently; in the metacarpal of the thumb, in the metatarsal of the great toe, and in all the phal- anges, the proximal end is that which ossifies independently. As the method of ossification of the first metacarpal and first metatarsal cor- responds with that of the phalanges, some anatomists hold that these bones are really the first phalanges of their respective digits, and that the bone which is absent in these digits, as compared with the other digits, is not a phalanx, but a meta-carpal or meta-tarsal bone. When the extremity of a long bone, or a process of a bone, ossifies from a centre distinct from the centre from which the body of the bone arises, it is called an epiphysis. The epiphysis is united to the shaft of the growing bone by an intermediate plate of cartilage, and so long as any of this cartilage remains unossified the bone can continue to grow in length. The ossification is not completed in the skeleton until from the twentieth to the twenty-fifth year. In the case of the long bones, the epiphysis situated at the end of the bone, towards which the canal in the shaft which transmits the nutrient artery is directed, ossifies to the shaft before the epiphysis at the other end. In the humerus, tibia, and fibula, where the canal is directed downwards, the epiphyses at the lower ends of the bones first unite with the shaft ; whilst in the femur, radius, and ulna, where the canal is directed upwards, the ossi- fication first takes place between the upper epiphysis and the shaft. All anatomists hold that the bones of the shaft and distal part of a limb belong to the appendicular part of the skeleton, but there is a difference of opinion as to the place in the skeleton to which the bones of the shoulder girdle and haunch are to be referred. Owen considers that the scapular and pelvic arches belong to the axial skeleton, and are homologous with the ribs ; the scapula and coracoid as the visceral or rib-arch of the occipital vertebra, the clavicle of the atlas, and the innominate bone of the upper sacral vertebrae. Goodsir objected to this conclusion of Owen’s on the ground that the shoulder girdle was not in series with the visceral arches, but was developed outside the visceral wall, at the junction of the cervical and thoracic regions; from which region the upper limb receives its nerves, and not from the occipito-atlantal region, whence the nerves would have proceeded had the