DEVELOPMENT OF VASCULAR SYSTEM. 577 two distinct chambers. In rare cases the development of the sep- tum stops short before its base is finished, and then the two ven- tricles have a permanent direct communication with each other. This malformation of the human heart corresponds with the normal construction of the heart in the Chelouia and Scaly Reptiles. The primitive auricle is larger in size than the primitive ventricle) and, before its division takes place, two pouch-like projections, the right and left auricular appendages, appear on its walls. The conversion of the primitive auricle into two auricles is due to th formation of a septum in the auricular chamber. This septum appears about the eighth or ninth week, and not until the ventri- cular septum is completed. It springs as a muscular septum from the anterior and upper wall of the auricle and the base of the ven- tricular septum, and grows into the auricular chamber, in the direction of the mouths of the great veins. About the end of the sixth month the septum has grown so much that the anterior parts of the two auricles are separated from each other, but they freely communicate posteriorly, and the great veins open therefore into the common cavity. These veins are now three in number, and constitute the inferior vena cava, the right superior cava, and the left superior cava, the last of which subsequently becomes modified into the coronary sinus. A crescentic membranous fold, which grows to- wards the upper and lower boundaries of the auricle, then arises from the left wall of the inferior cava. At the same time it projects into the auricular chamber, and approximates to the muscular part of the septum, but between the two a hiatus, called the foramen ovale, exists, during the whole of intra-nterine life. With the growth of the membranous part of the septum, the orifice of the inferior vena cava, which at first opened towards the left half of the auricular chamber, is directed into the right auricle ; but up to the birth of the child the blood of the inferior cava flows through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. Some days after the child is born, the number of which varies in different instances, thq foramen ovale closes up by the union of the anterior and posterior parts of the auricular septum, and the two auricles are then com- pletely separated from each other. In some cases the closure of the foramen is not complete, and a small valvular opening remains in the septum throughout life ; more rarely the opening is large, and allows of a mixture of the blood of the two sides of the heart. From the right wall of the inferior cava, a membranous fold, the Eustachian valve, arises, which grows to the border of the anterior part of the auricular septum, where it forms the annulus ovalis, or