174 ANATOMY. pre-existing tissue, and in tlie same way, viz., by ossification of the deep periosteal layer of osteo-blasts. In the description of the development of bone in the foetus and young person, the formation of medullary spaces was referred to. But the production of spaces in bone is by no means limited to its early stages of growth. The medullary canal in a long bone can scarcely be said to exist in the bones of an infant’s limbs. The hollowing out of the shaft of a long bone into a large canal, and the enlargement of the spaces of the cancellated tissue, goes on not only up to the period of adult life, but even to advanced years ; so that in an old person the relative size of this canal is greater than in the prime of life. The Haversian spaces also, as Tomes and De Morgan pointed out, are pro- duced by the absorption of the lamellae of the osseous tissue surround- ing the Haversian canals, and the production of these spaces is con- stantly going on during the life of the bone ; portions of the lamellae which may remain unabsorbed constitute the intermediate lamellae. But along with the absorption leading to the formation of Haversian spaces, new bone arises through the agency of the osteo-blasts, and when this takes place on the wall of the medullary canal or cancelli, central lamellae are formed. The air-sinuses in the cranial bones are also formed by the absorption of the diploe, and consequent separation of the two tables of the skull. Bones, therefore, are organs which are continually undergoing change. During growth additions are being made to their length by endo-chondral ossification, and to their thick- ness by periosteal ossification, and additional lamellae are being formed in the walls of the medullary and Haversian spaces. At the same time a hollowing out of spaces in their interior is going on, so that an increase in weight commensurate with their growth does not take place. The interstitial absorptive changes, whether occurring during growth or after growth is completed, are due, as Kolliker has shown, to the action of the many-nucleated colossal cells, or osteo-klasts, which line the walls of the spaces where absorption is going on. The changes due to absorption are indeed so extensive that in the course of time the original endo-chondral bone becomes absorbed, and replaced by bone derived from ossification of periosteum. The development, modelling and ultimate configuration of a bone are, therefore, as has been well expressed by Kolliker, the product of the formation of osseous tissue by the agency of the osteo-blasts, and of its absorption or destruction by the action of the osteo-klasts. From the fact that osseous tissue may bo produced either in the cartilaginous or in the fibrous tissues, and that all three contribute to the formation of the skeleton, it is evident that these tissues are closely allied. To express this alliance they have all been grouped together under the common term Connective Substances.