776 ANATOMY. the spine by a fold of the mesoblast, named the mesentery. This loop at first protrudes out of the abdominal chamber through the umbilical opening, along -with the allantois and the vessels of the umbilical cord, but it is soon withdrawn into the abdomen. The portion of the loop which becomes the ileum was originally continuous with the umbilical vesicle through the omphalo- mesenteric, or vitcllo-intestinal duct; but this duct atrophies, and in the course of time disappears. As the jejunum and ileum in- crease in length, they become more and more convoluted, and produce the coils of the small intestine. A blind sac appears in the course of the middle gut beyond the place of union with the omphalo-mesenteric duct. This sac is the rudimentary coecum, or commencement of the large intestine. The remaining part of the middle gut forms a portion of the colon. The coecum undergoes a great expansion, except at its lower part, which remains of small calibre and forms the appendix vermiformis. The colon also expands into the large intestine, and is continuous with the rectum, formed by a growth and dilatation of the primi- tive hind gut. The coecum and colon lie in their early stage to the left of the mesial plane, but, as they increase in length, they pass into the right hypochondrium, and then descend through the right lumbar region into the right iliac fossa. In some cases the descent of the coecum does not take place, and it then remains in the adult in the right lumbar region, or even in the right hypo- chondrium, where I have occasionally seen it. In other cases it descends lower down into the pelvis. The rectum and apparently the sigmoid flexure of the colon are produced by growth and expansion of the primitive hind gut. The posterior end of the hind gut is at first a cul-de-sac, but the mesoblast and epiblast wall of the body, opposite the end of the gut, becomes involuted and absorbed, and the gut then opens into a fossa called the cloaca, common to it and to the external orifices of the genital tube and the urethra. In the course of time the in- testinal orifice becomes completely separated from the genito-uri- nary, by the growth of integument, and the anal orifice is formed. The imperforate anus, sometimes found in new-born children, is due to the communication between the blind end of the rectum and the surface never having been established. From the terminal part of the primitive hind gut a diverti- culum, called the allantois, sprouts out, the several stages of the development, and atrophy of which will be described in connec- tion with the development of the genito-urinary apparatus.