ANATOMY. 228 processes of the nerve cells; and it is possible that they may be indirectly continuous with the cells through the plexus of fine fibres formed by the division and subdivision of the processes of the cells (Gerlach). The spinal cord is well supplied with blood by numerous arteries, which ramify both in the pia mater investing its "periphery, and in the processes which dip into the median fissures, more especially the anterior. Small arteries enter the longitudinal columns perpendicular to their free surfaces, ramify in the connective tissue frame- work, and end in a capillary plexus for the supply of the nerve fibres. Other vessels, somewhat larger in size, pass through the columns into the grey matter, where they also are connected with a capillary plexus. The capillaries are much more numerous in the grey matter of the cord than in the white columns. In transverse sections through the cord a pair of veins may be seen imbedded in the neuroglia of the posterior commissure; these veins lie parallel to and at the sides of the central canal (fig. 74), and collect the blood from the capillaries. Perivascular lymph spaces continuous with the lymphatics of the pia mater ensheath the blood-vessels of the cord. The structure of the Spinal Cord shows it to be both a nerve centre and a conductor of nervous impulses. The nerve cells in its grey- matter give rise either directly, or perhaps through the delicate plexus formed by their branching processes, to nerve fibres, which may either pass out of the cord as the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, or may ascend to the brain as the columns of the cord. Hence the cord is anatomically continuous, on the one hand, through the nerves which arise from it, with the peripheral end-organs in the skin and in the muscular system in which those nerves terminate ; and, on the other hand, it is continuous with the brain. It serves, therefore, to conduct through its white substance tire impulses of touch-sensation from the skin upwards to the brain ; also tho motor impulses from the brain downwards to the muscles. But the roots of the spinal nerves