CEREBRAL ORGANOLOGY. 299 other, for the grey matter forms a continuous layer over the whole sur- face of the hemisphere. Hence a group of cerebral convolutions differs from a group of muscles, each member of which is undoubtedly a distinct organ, for each muscle is isolated from those around it by a definite investing sheath. As regards internal structure, it has been shown (p. 289) that the convolutions are not all constructed on pre- cisely the same plan, and it has also been pointed out that the con- volutions are not all connected in the same way, either with the cere- bral ganglia or with each other. These structural modifications unquestionably point to functional differences in the several parts in which they are found. But further, special connections through the commissural and association systems of fibres are established between certain convolutions and not between others, and through the peduncu- lar and tegmental fibres with different regions of the body, and it is possible not only that particular combinations of convolutions through an interchange of internuncial fibres may condition a particular state of psychical activity, but that these combinations may associate various convolutions together in the performance of a given intellectual act, just as in the muscular system several muscles are as a rule associated to- gether for the performance of a given movement. Much light on the special functions of the convolutions will doubtless be thrown by study- ing their connections with each other and with other parts of the ence- phalon, just as the action of the members of a group of muscles is ascertained by examining the direction of their fibres and the attach- ment of their terminal tendons. Physiological evidence has been obtained that some of the convolu- tions are especially associated with sensori-motor functions. Ferrier, by stimulating in monkeys the cerebral cortex in those regions in which the giant pyramidal cells, described on p. 289, are found, obtained movements of particular groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body, and by destroying the cortex in these regions, caused paralysis of the same muscles. Hence the convolutions which bound, or are adjacent to, the fissure of Rolando are regarded as centres associated with the production of certain movements. Ferrier also by injuring the cortex of other convolutions, has impaired or de- stroyed the perception of sensory impressions, and lias thus associated the sense of sight with the angular gyrus ; that of hearing with the superior temporo-sphenoidal gyrus ; that of taste with the lower end of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe ; that of touch with the gyrus hippo- campi and hippocampus major ; in all these cases the organ, the sen- sibility of which is lost or impaired, is on the opposite side to the injured convolution. The uncinate convolution again is the centre of the sense of smell on the same side, a relation which is supported by anatomical evidence. Broca and others have also shown that destruc-