CEREBROSPINAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 205 may differentiate into a peripheral end-organ. The spinal ganglia, the spinal nerves, and the sympathetic, are all anatomically continuou with each other, and through the nerve roots with the spinal cord. At their first appearance they are all composed of elongated cells, con- tinuous with the cells of the involuted epiblast which forms the spinal cord. It is probable that nerve fibres are formed by the fusion of these elongated cells end to end. The young cerebro-spinal nerve fibres are distinctly nucleated, and correspond in appearance and structural characters to the non-medullated nerve fibres of the adult. In the tail of the tadpole the formation and growth of nerve fibres have been studied by Kolliker, and it has been seen that the terminal part of a fibre may have fusiform or tri-radiate cells connected with it, the pro- . cesses of which cells graduaRy differentiate into nerve fibres. If in a young or adult person a nerve be cut across, its conducting power is destroyed ; but after a time it reunites, and its function is restored. The part of the nerve which lies between the place of section and its peripheral extremity, undergoes, as Waller pointed out, de- generative changes. To how great an extent the degeneration affects the various constituents of each fibre it is difficult to determine ; for whilst some experiments would seem to show that only the medullary sheath broke up into granular particles and was absorbed, in others both it and the axial cylinder disappeared. In process of time, how- ever, these parts may be reproduced, and the nerve then recovers its functional activity. The Cerebro-spinal Nervous System. In this section the anatomy of the Brain and Spinal Cord, and of the numerous distributory Nerves which arise from them, will be described. The brain and spinal cord are the largest and most important of all the nerve centres. They occupy the cranial cavity and spinal canal, and are continuous with each other through the foramen magnum in the occipital bone. As the arrangement of the structures which compose the brain and spinal cord is extremely complex, and as the names applied to the several parts are numerous and often very arbitrary, it may be well, before commencing a detailed description, to make a few general observations on their mode of development.