ANATOMY. 206 Development op the Cerebro-Spinal Nervous Axis. In the section on the development of the skeleton (p. 54) the for- mation of the axial, dorsal groove in the embryonic area has been described. The wall of this groove is formed by an involution of the cells of the epiblast, or external layer of the blastoderm, and these involuted cells form the axial medullary plate. The groove deepens by the elevation of its walls into the dorsal laminae (fig. 70), and as these continue to grow they meet mesi- ally and enclose the mvoluted axial epi- blast or medullary plate. The surround- ing mesoblast cells then differentiate, in the region in which the vertebral column is to appear, into the proto-vertebrae, and the medullary plate becomes completely severed from the epiblast forming the external layer of the blastoderm, which differentiates into the epidermis. The axial groove is by these changes converted into an axial neural, or central canal, and the walls of this canal formed by the epiblast cells of the medullary plate (fig. 71), which by repeated multipli- cation are arranged in several layers, consti- tute a tube the medul- lary or cerebrospinal tube. This axial canal becomes the central canal of the cerebro- spinal nervous axis. The layer of epiblast Fio. 70.—Transverse-Vertical Section through the Blastoderm of a Chick at the end of the second day. E, epiblast; M, mesoblast; H, hypoblast. C, the axial groove closing in to form the axial or central canal; d, d, the elevated sides of the groove or dorsal laminas, which subsequently blend opposite a; ch, chorda dorsalis. (After Schenk.) Fig. 71.—Transverse Vertical Section through the Blastoderm of Bufo cinereus. C S, the epiblast cells of the medullary tube, forming the embryonic cerebro- spinal nervous axis, which has been cut off from the superficial epiblast, E, by growth of the mesoblast, M. The other letters are as in fig. 70. (After Schenk.) cells next tbe canal differentiates into its epithelial lining, and it is to be noted that this layer though most internal in the involuted epiblast, was originally continuous with the most external layer of the epiblast covering of the embryo. The layers of epiblast cells situated peri-