ANATOMY. 112 arrangement is to a large extent lost. Traces are preserved, however, in the interspinales and intertransversales muscles, situated in the in- tervals between the spines and transverse processes of some of the verte- bral segments ; in the external intercostals and in the recti abdominis muscles, in the last-named of which tendinous bands the lineae transversal divide the muscle into four or five transverse segments. More usually, the intermuscular septa disappear, and adjacent myotomes become blended into a continuous mass of muscle. In some instances the fibres of a muscle run longitudinally, and the entire mass divides longitudinally into separate and distinct parallel muscles, as in the composite erector spin® with its several divisions. In other instances the muscles run obliquely ; some on the back of the body pass obliquely from below upwards and outwards, as the splenius, and obliquus inferior ; others obliquely from below upwards and inwards, as the complexus, obliquus superior, and the composite oblique rotator muscle ; others again, as the oblique muscles of the abdomen, extend obliquely from behind forwards to the ventral mesial line. Of the hypo-skeletal group of muscles, the internal intercostals dis- play the transverse segmentation. As a rule, however, the muscles of this group extepd longitudinally, and form the pre-vertebral muscles ; though the diaphragm, triangulares sterni, transversi abdominis, and levatores ani, which lie in relation to the inner surfaces of the ribs and visceral cavities, are not longitudinal, but are specially modified in arrangement for functional reasons. The plane of demarcation between the hypo- and epi-skeletal groups of muscles, where they form together the walls of the thorax and abdomen, is marked off by the position and course of the interqostaLsmnaLjier^es. The muscles attached to the appendicular skeleton are either limited to the limbs (purely appendicular, therefore), or pass from the axial part of the body to the limb (axi-appendicular). The axi-appendicular group are prolongations of the axial system of muscles. They are in the upper limb derived from the epi-skeletal division, and form the trapezius, rhomboid, levator anguli scapula?, latissiraus dorsi, sub- clavius, serratus magnus, and pectoral muscles. In the lower limb they are in part derived from the hypo-skeletal division, and form the psoas and pyriformis ; and in part as the gluteus maximus, from the epi-skeletal division. It is not improbable that the purely appendicular muscles are also prolongations of the axial system, and that as the limbs, in their development from their fundamental bud- lilce lappets, undergo both a transverse and a longitudinal segmenta- tion, so the muscular mass, prolonged into them, differentiates both transversely and longitudinally into a motor apparatus, fitted for the performance of the special functions of each extremity. .