DEVELOPMENT OF NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 209 The Thalamencephalon thickens ; in each lateral wall the Optic Thalamus is formed, and the axial canal between the two thalami is the dilatation called the 3d ventricle. This ventricle is bounded in front by the lamina cinerea or terrainalis. In the floor of the thalam- encephalon appear the optic nerves and commissure, the tuber cinereum, infundibulum and corpora albicantia. The infundibulum is connected with the pituitary body, or hypophysis cerebri, lodged in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid. The infundibulum forms indeed the posterior lobe of the pituitary body ; but its anterior lobe has a very different origin, for it is derived from a prolongation of the epiblast lining of the mouth, which in the course of time becomes severed from the mouth, and enclosed within the cranium by the development of the cartilaginous floor of the skull. In the roof of the thalamenceph alon appears the pineal gland or epiphysis cerebri, from which two white peduncles run forwards on the sides of the optic thalami. Below this gland the transverse fibres of the posterior com- missure pass between the two optic thalami. The Prosencephalon (primitive hemisphere vesicle or secondary fore- brain) is at first unpaired, and contains a single axial cavity continuous with that of the thalamencephalon or 3d ventricle (His). This un- paired vesicle then, as Mihalkovics has shown, presents a median notch at its anterior part, which gradually deepens into a furrow, as the vesicle increases in size, until at length the vesicle becomes divided into the right and left hemispheres of the Cerebrum and the median furrow forms the great longitudiual fissure of the cerebrum. The production of this fissure is due to the formation of a mesial band of connective tissue, derived from the surrounding mesoblast, which forms the falx cerebri. Each hemisphere is hollow, the cavity in its interior is the lateral ventricle, and the two lateral ventricles freely communicate with each other and with the third ventricle through a large primitive foramen of Monro. The roof and sides of each hemisphere are the Mantle, whilst in its floor the Corpus Striatum is formed. As de- velopment advances the corpora striata increase in size, project on the floor of the lateral ventricle, and mark off the anterior from the middle or inferior cornu. Nerve fibres form in the wall of the mantle, which become continuous with nerve fibres that have formed in the corpus striatum, they constitute the white core of the hemisphere or the corona radiata. Two parallel folds appear on the inner face of each hemisphere, which project towards the ventricle. The upper fold thickens into the hippocampus major (comu ammonis), which projects into the inferior cornu of the ventricle. The lower fold elongates and thins into a layer of short cylindrical cells, which form the epithelial covering of the vascular choroid plexus. This epithelial layer is con- tinuous with the wall of the hemisphere, covers the fornix and 0