151 CONNECTIVE TISSUES.. similar appearance in tlie elastic pericardiac ligament of the elephant. These transverse strise are apparently cracks in the fibre -r and, as Beale has shown, are not unfrequently seen in the elastic fibres of beef and mutton which have been eaten and passed undigested through the alimentary canaL The vascularity of the connective tissue varies in different localities. The periosteum and perichondrium are very vascular; and their vessels are concerned in the nutrition both of these fibrous membranes, and of the bone and cartilage which they invest. The sheath of con- nective tissue which invests a x> .n< ... _. ... tendon is more vascular than the iiG. 43.—Connective Tissue of tlie Omentum of tlie Foetus, showing snbsta'ncp of the tendon itself the fusiform corpuscles, a capii- suDstance oi me teuaon lise.il. lary blood-vessel crosses the * i •. i ototprl flint figure, and outside it are several “ rule, li may De fill If 11 that blood corpuscles which have pro- ,i xn . • .. babiy migrated from the vessel, the fabrous connective tissues are not highly vascular, and that the nutritive changes which take place in them after their growth is completed are not very active. Connective tissue is sparingly supplied with nerves, and their mode of termination in it has not been ascertained. Development op Connective Tissue. The mode of development of the connective tissue has been much discussed by anatomists, and various views have been advanced as to the changes which lead to its production. The neuroglia arises along with the nervous organs to which it belongs in the epiblast, but the other varieties of tlie connective tissue are produced by a special mor phological and chemical differentiation of the protoplasm of the cells of tiie mesoblast. Tlie degree to which this differentiation may pro- ceed varies with the particular form of the texture. The neuroglia is a granular nucleated protoplasm, though a delicate fibrillation and flattened cells may he seen in it. In the retiform connective tissue