OSSEOUS TISSUE. 1G9 and in the bodies of the vertebrae the veins pass out through large holes in the posterior surface. Bones possess lymph-vessels, which pass along with the blood-vessels into the Haversian and medullary canals and cancelli. Fine nerves accompany the arteries which enter the nutrient and Haversian canals, and nerves end also in the periosteum. It is clear, therefore, that a bone, hard and dense though its texture seems to be, is yet hollowed out by spaces, passages, and canals, which, under the several names of medullary canal, cancellated spaces, nutrient canal, Haversian canals, Haversian spaces, lacunae, and canali- culi, are occupied by ^blood-vessels or other soft tissues. By the penetration of blood-vessels into the bone, blood is conveyed both to the medulla, and into the very sub- stance even of the compact tissue; and there can be no doubt that the nucleated masses of protoplasm which occupy the lacunae and canaliculi, and line the Haversian canals, are, as Goodsir long ago pointed out, centres con- cerned in the nutrition of the matrix substance of the bone in their immediate neighbourhood. These cells, together with the periosteum, the medulla, and their blood vessels, are active agents in the development, growth, and nutrition of the osseous tissue. Development of Osseous Tissue. In the section on the development of the skeleton, it was stated that the bones are formed by ossification in cartilage and fibrous membrane, so that bones are produced by secondary changes in a pre-existing material. The mode of production of the osseous tissue in the carti- laginous and fibrous tissues will now be considered, and it should be clearly understood at the outset that, in normal ossification, bone is not formed by a mere calcification of the matrix of the pre-existing tissue, and a direct conversion of the cartilage or connective tissue corpuscles into bone corpuscles ; but, as the researches of Sliarpey, Bruch, H. Muller, Loven, and Gegenbaur have made known, is due to the develop- ment of, and changes in new corpuscles, which Gegenbaur has named osleo-blasls, accompanied by an abundant formation of blood-vessels.