OSSEOUS TISSUE. 173 Tntra-membranous Ossification.—The formation of bone in fibrous membrane was first recognised by Nesbitt, and has been worked out in most of its details by Sharpey, Kolliker, and Gegenbaur. The tabular bones of the skull offer the best illustration of this mode of ossification. Sharpey has pointed out that a network of minute spicula of bone forms in the fibrous membrane, and extends in radiat- ing lines from the centre of ossification towards the circumference of the bone. The ossifying tissue consists of fibres, of multitudes of granular corpuscles or osteo-blasts, and of blood-vessels. The osteo-blasts invest the fibres, but as the investing osteo-blastic cells calcify, from the periphery towards the nucleus, they assume a stellate configuration, and pass through a series of changes similar to those described in the intra-cartilaginous mode of ossification. The fibres, which are in the first instance soft, also calcify and contri- bute to the formation of the bone. Here, however, as in the intra- cartilaginous ossification, the active agents in the ossific process are the osteo-blastic cells. The lamellated structure is due to ossification of successive layers of these cells, and the formation of the lacunae and canaliculi is owing to the persistence of their uuclei with a proportion of unossified investing protoplasm. The increase in thickness of a membrane bone, like that of a cartilage bone, takes place through ossification in a deep periosteal layer of osteo-blasts. Hence it follows that, though the tissue which precedes the appearance of bone in the skeleton is not uniformly the same, in some cases being fibrous mem- brane, in others cartilage, there is an identity in the ossific process in the two forms of pre-existing tissue, in both of which the osteo-blast cells are the active agents in ossification. The chemical differentiation which takes place in the protoplasm of the osteo-blasts during bone- formation is not merely a calcification, but a coincident production of a gelatine-yielding substance, within which the minute calcareous particles are deposited. Stress has been laid by some anatomists, in discussing the homologies of the several bones of the skeleton, on the differences met with in the place of their formation. Thus it has been supposed that a bone originally developed in cartilage cannot be homologous with one originally developed in fibrous membrane, and that a fundamental morphological distinction should be drawn between cartilage bones and membrane bones. But when it is considered that, though the place of formation may vary, the method of formation is the same in all locali- ties, it does not appear that so much importance should be attached to the distinction between cartilage and membrane bones as it has some- times received. Moreover, the differences between these two varieties of bones are, during the growth of the bone, still further diminished, for in both cases increase in thickness takes place in the same kind of