ANATOMY. 184 Development op Muscular Fibre. ' The contractile fibi'e-cells of the nen-striped muscular fibre are formed by the gradual elongation of the cells of the mesoblast into spindle-shaped cells, the oval nuclei at the same time becoming elon- gated, so as to assume a rod-shaped form and the cell protoplasm dif- ferentiating into contraeticle fibrils. Usually the spindle cells which lie in the same linear series become cemented together into the smooth fibres of this form of muscle. The mode of development of the striped fibre from the mesoblast cells is more difficult to follow out, and various statements have been made as to the successive stages of its formation. Schwann believed that a fibre was built up of the embryonic cetls of the part, which arranged themselves in linear series, coalescing with each other at their surfaces of contact; that the contents of the cells then became transversely striated, and that the cell walls formed the sarcolemma. Savory and Lockhart Clarke maintained that a formation of blastema took place around free nuclei, and that this blastema gradually assumed the striated character. Remak, Kolliker, Wilson Fox, and Frey have, however, by studying the earliest stages of development in the very young embryo, established the fact that the striped fibres are developed from the cells of the embryo, though not in the manner described by Schwann. The process, briefly stated, is as follows : The embryonic cells elongate, the nucleus may remain single, but more usually it divides aud subdivides, so that many nuclei appear in the interior of the elongated cell. The nuelei lie in linear series, and may either be separated from each other, or two or more may be in contact, and they may lie either near the periphery of the elongated cell, or in its axis. With this multiplication of tlie nuclei, the cell increases in length and assumes the form of a fibre. The cell protoplasm, both in the single and many-nucleated fibres, then differentiates into the sarcous particles of the transverse stri®, and as this progresses the fibre assumes its characteristic striped appearance. The whole amount of the proto- plasm does not, however, assume the transversely striped appearance, for a small quantity remains around each nucleus and forms with it a muscle corpuscle. The differentiation of the protoplasm occasions an anatomical and chemico-physical change in the fibre, and confers on it the property of energetic contractility. The mode of development of the sarcolemma is still somewhat obscure. By some it is regarded as the wall of the embryonic cells, which have become metamorphosed into muscular fibres; by others it is regarded as a special differentiation of the protoplasm at the periphery of the fibre, which takes place at the time when the transverse stri® are being formed ; whilst by others it is considered to be a special modification of connective tissue formed