773 DEVELOPMENT OF DIGESTIVE ORGANS. Development op the Digestive and Respiratory Systems. The Digestive and Respiratory Systems are for the most part developed from the mesoblast and hypoblast layers of the blas- toderm, the epiblast having but a limited share in their forma- tion. When the differentiation of the blastoderm into three layers has taken place, its deepest or hypoblast layer lies in contact with the yolk, and is in the course of time prolonged over it to form the epithelial layer of the wall of the umbilical vesicle. As the axial part of the body of the embryo rises up from the surface of the yolk (through the occurrence of those changes in the epiblast and mesoblast which lead to the formation of the nervous axis, the chorda dorsalis, and the protovertebrae (p. 211), a fold takes place at both the cephalic and caudal ends of the embryo. At the same time the hypoblast, both anteriorly and posteriorly, becomes folded so as to form the anterior and posterior ends of a tube, whilst the intermediate part of the hypoblast continues to invest the yolk as the wall of the umbilical vesicle. The hypoblast tube, owing to the folding at its anterior and posterior ends, forms, in front and behind, a cul-de-sac; but its intermediate part relatively has the formlof a wide furrow, and communicates freely with the yolk sac. Subsequently, as the hypoblast assumes the tubular shape, in the intermediate part likewise the communication becomes constricted, and forms the omphalo-mesenteric duct. The tube in its whole length is the Primitive Alimentary Canal. At the same time important changes are going on in the meso- blast on each side of the protovertebrae. It splits into two layers, oue of which, named the somato-pleure layer, adheres to the epi- blast, and forms with it the ventral wall of the body of the young embryo ; for as it increases in size it grows towards the ventral surface of the body, and encloses the future thoracic and abdominal cavities. At the umbilicus, however, an opening remains in the mesial ventral line, which permits the structures constituting the umbilical cord, to pass out to the placenta. The other layer of the mesoblast, named the splanchno-plcure layer, adheres to the hypoblast, and along with it forms the primitive alimentary canal, and the several viscera which are developed as diverticular offshoots from that canal. Owing to the extension of the somato-pleure, with its cuticular covering of epiblast, to the ventral mesial line of