ANATOMY. 54 Development and Homologies of the Skeleton. It will now be advisable to consider briefly the development of the skeleton, and along with the study of its genesis to compare its several parts with each other, in order to ascertain if correspondences in their arrangement and mode of origin exist, even if they differ in the function or office which they perform. When two or more parts or organs correspond with each other in structure, relative position, and development, we say they are homologous parts, or homologues; whilst parts which have the same function, but do not correspond in structure, relative position, and development, are analogous parts, or analogues. Homologous parts have therefore a morphological identity with each other, whilst analogous parts have a physiological agreement. The same parts may be both homologous and analogous, as the fore- limbs of a bat and a bird, both of which, with the same fundamental type of structure, are subservient to flight. In other cases analogous parts are not homologues, as the wing of the insect, which, though subservient to flight, is fundamentally different from the wing of the bat or bird. The area of the blastoderm iu the fertilized vertebrate ovum, in which the embryo is formed, consists of three layers of cells, named respectively from without inwards, epiblast, mesoblast, and hypoblast. The skeleton Is produced by a special differentiation of the cells of the mesoblast. In the embryonic area an axial, dorsal, primitive groove appears, which marks the beginning of the cranio-spinal region of the young embryo. The sides of this groove become elevated as thin membranes, and form the dorsal la- minse or medullary folds, which, continu- ing to grow, meet mesially and enclose the epiblast, from which the brain and spinal cord are devel- oped (fig. 11*). At the bottom of the primitive groove an elongated axial rod, the chorda dorsalis or notochord, is formed, which consti- tutes the primitive axial skeleton, and marks the position of the bodies of the future vertebra;. The mesoblast, situated at the sides of the chorda dorsalis in the spinal region, forms a series of definite masses, the primordial or proto-vertebree. The proto-vertebra; in part differentiate into cartilage, which surrounds the notochord, Fig. 11*.—Transverse-Vertical Section through the Blastoderm of a Chicle at the end of the second day. E, epihiast; M, mesoblast; H, hypoblast. C, the primitive groove closing in to form the axial or central canal; d, d, the elevated sides of the groove or dorsal lamina;, which subsequently blend opposite a; ch, chorda dorsalis. (After Schenk.)