DEVELOPMENT OF NERVOUS SYSTEM. 211 gemina, optic thalami, and corpora striata can be exposed, portions of tlie hemisphere substance must be removed. The growth backwards of each hemisphei-e leads also to a prolongation backwards of the lateral ventricle into the occipital lobe and the formation of a posterior cornu. A vascular membrane, the Piet mater, is developed from the meso- blast as an investment of the spinal cord and encephalon, and processes derived from it dip into the fissures between the two halves of the cord, also between the cerebral convolutions and the lamellae of the cerebellum. A broad band, the Velum Interpositum, possesses two marginal fringes, the choroid plexuses, which project on the floor of the lateral ventricle and its inferior cornu, but are separated from the cavity of the ventricle itself by the layer of cylindrical cells already described (p. 209) as forming the epithelial covering of the choroid plexus. When the two hemispheres are in situ, and the two halves of the fornix are joined together to form the body of that structure, the velum interpositum, passes across the mesial plane from one hemi- sphere to the other, having the fornix and taenia hippocampi above and the optic thalami and corpora quadrigemina below. The interval occupied by the velum is called the great transverse fissure of the cerebrum. Until quite recently it was believed that the Cranial and Spinal Nerves were derived from the cells of the mesoblast, but the researches of F. M, Balfour, Marshall and Hensen have shown that they are really outgrowths of the cerebro-spinal nervous axis, and therefore derived from epiblast cells which differentiate into nerve fibres. The posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with their ganglia, arise in relation to the dorsal aspect of the cord. The anterior roots appear subsequently to the posterior, and grow out of the ventral aspect of the cord ; they join the posterior roots beyond the ganglia. The cranial nerves arise from the dorsal aspect of the cerebral end of the cerebro- spinal tube, so that their relation to the brain at their first appearance resembles that of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves to the spinal cord (Balfour). The Sympathetic Nervous System was also believed to be of meso- blast origin, but Balfour, Schenk and Birdsell have now shown it to arise in connection with the cranial and spinal nerves. The sympa- thetic ganglia appear as swellings on the main branches of the spinal nerves in close relation with the ganglia on the posterior roots. They then become removed from them by the growth of intermediate nerve fibres ; but the continuity of the sympathetic and spinal nervous systems is kept up throughout life by the communicating branches, which pass from the anterior divisions of the spinal nerves to adjacent sympathetic ganglia.