APPENDICULAR SKELETON—LOWER LIMB. 49 of the brim, the cavity, and the outlet; at the brim it is directed upwards and forwards, at the outlet downwards and a little forwards. Owing to the inclination of the pelvis, the base of the sacrum is nearly 4 inches higher than the upper border of the pubic symphysis. The female pelvis is distinguished from the male by certain sexual characters. The bones are more slender, the ridges and processes for muscular attachment more feeble, the breadth and capacity greater, the depth less, the ilia more expanded, giving the greater breadth to the hips of a woman than a man ; the inlet more nearly circular, the pubic arch wider, the distance between the ischial tuberosities greater, r I 1 - -miii<i»,fairr%>lT*‘*~-'J- and the obturator foramen larger in the female than in the male. The greater capacity of the woman’s than the man’s pelvis is to afford greater room for the expansion of the uterus during pregnancy, and for the expulsion of the child at the time of birth. The Femur or Thigh-bone (fig. 11) is the longest bone in the body, and consists of a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity or head possesses a smooth convex surface, on which is an oval roughened fossa, for the attach- ment of the inter-articular ligamentum teres of the hip; from the head a strong elongated neclc passes downwards and outwards to join the upper end of the shaft; the place of junction is marked by two processes or trochanters : the external is of great size, and to it are attached many muscles; the internal is much smaller, and gives attachment to the psoas and iliacus muscles. A line drawn through the axis of the head and neck forms with a vertical line drawn through the shaft an angle of 30°; in a woman this angle is less obtuse than in a man, and the obliquity of the shaft of the femur is greater in the former than in the latter. The shaft is almost cylindrical about its centre, but expanded above and below; it gives origin to the vasti and crureus muscles; behind there is a rough ridge, which, though called linea aspera, is really a narrow surface D