36 ANATOMY. the face is about half the size of the head, and its vertical diameter is greatly elongated, from the growth of the antrum, the nose, and the dental borders of the jaws ; and the angle of the lower jaw is almost a right angle. In old age the teeth fall out, the jaws shrink in, their dental borders become absorbed, the angle of the lower jaw, as in in- fancy, is obtuse ; both the vertex and floor of the skull become flattened, and the sides bulge outwards,—changes due to gravitation and the subsidence of the bones by their own weight. The skull of a woman is smaller and lighter, with the muscular ridges and projections due to the air-sinuses less strongly marked than in a man, but with the eminences or centres of ossification more pro- minent. The more feeble air-sinuses imply a more restricted respira- tory activity and a less active mode of life than in a man. The in- ternal capacity is about 10 per cent, less than that of the male. The face is smaller in proportion to the cranium ; the cranium is more flattened at the vertex, and the height is consequently not so great in proportion to the length as in the man. In the adult female skull, therefore, the infantile characters are less departed from than is the case in the male. Appendicular Skeleton. SUPERIOR EXTREMITY OR UPPER LIMB. The Upper Limb may be divided into a proximal part or Shoulder, a distal part or Hand, and an intermediate Shaft, which consists of an upper arm or brachium, and a fore-arm or anti-brachium. In each of these divisions certain bones are found: in the shoulder, the clavicle and scapula ; in the upper arm, the humerus; in the fore-arm, the radius and ulna, the bone of the upper arm in man being longer than the bones of the fore-arm; in the hand, the carpal and metacarpal bones and the phalanges. The scapula and clavicle together form an imperfect bony arch, the Scapular Arch or Shoulder Girdle ; the shaft and hand form a free divergent Appendage. The shoulder girdle is the direct medium of connection between the axial skeleton and the divergent part of the limb; its anterior segment, the clavicle, articulates with the upper end of the sternum,