221017184050 I \ I */Mission of San L,uis Rey. (Where the Club is now beginning repairs.)-•sH'iaoNv soq ‘s'lHONY aHx ao Naan ft ‘acivt >m0 ao hohqho fGeneral Front View San Juan Capistrano Mission.’ Inner Court, San Juan Capistrano. (All the roofs seen here, of buildings and cloisters, have been put on by the Landmarks Club.) San Diego, the Mother Mission (1769). (The Landmarks Club has repaired and safeguarded the walls of the church.)San Juan Capistrano—Front Cloisters and Present Chapel, (After repairs by the Landmarks Club.).4'. : ' ■■ ■ .Bfej X- •-,•'’1 / I • 5 tlii" >- ir * Interior or the Chapbi, at Pala. Photo by c. f. l., issf>, (The Landmarks Club is now, 1902, repairing- the ruined roofs of this branch Mission.)The Kitchen, Mission of San Juan Capistrano. Photo by Bertrand. (Since this photo, the Landmarks Club has re-roofed all these buildings with the original tiles.)- I'(Re-roofed by the Landmarks Club.) Inner Cloisters, San Juan Capistrano. Photo by c. f. l.San Juan Capistrano Mission. Photo by c.F.L. Orig-inal.Church (founded by Jutupero Serra, 17*76) before repairs. Cloisters sheeted, aud later roofed, by the Landmarks Club.\San Fernando Mission. Photo by c. F. L. The Church Through a Breach in theJMonasteryJWaiJvS. (Since this photo, the Landmarks Club has re-roofed the Church and tMouastery, and rebuilt this gap.)Before; and After. Photos by c. f. l. Landmarks Ceub Work at San Fernando. The Church before and after reproofing-. The Monastery before and after repairs.■j -o x,i »md (•qntD sjpnsiupii'e'l 3tn pa>o°J-3-1 *IPU°s aouis) 'OQNVNMaj NVg XV HD>IflHO HHX kM -vt. ’ KT '' •*'Capistrano. Photo by Father Junipero’s Church, re-roofed by the Landmarks Club. p)Dome of the Great Stone Church, Capistrano. (Saved from falling-by the Landmarks Club.) Photo by C. P. L.The Tor'jMrra MakerTHE Landmarks Club Cook book A CALIFORNIA COLLECTION OF THE CHOICEST RECIPES FROM EVERTWHERE COMPILED BY The Landmarks Club (INCORPORATED) INCLUDING A CHAPTER OF THE MOST FAMOUS OLD CALIFORNIAN AND MEXICAN DISHES BY CHAS. F. LUMMIS -v •*>-> LOS ANGELES CAL. The Out West Company 1903Copyrig-ht 1903 By The Landmarks Ceub WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. fCONTENTS PAGE Foreword 1 Spanish-American Cookery ii The Landmarks Club and its Work v Landmarks Illustrations vii I. Spanish-American Cookery, with the most Famous Dishes of Old California, Mexico and Peru, by Chas. F. Lummis 1 II. Soups 18 III. Fish 30 IV. Poultry and Game 38 V. Meats 48 VI. Salads 63 VII. Entrees 74 VIII. Meat and Fish Sauces 85 IX. Vegetables 93 X. Eggs 114 XI. Cheese 122 XII. Puddings 126 XIII. Pastry 138 XIV. Desserts 148 XV. Pudding Sauces 161 XVI. Cake 164 XVII. Fruits, Jellies, Etc 193 XVIII. Pickles, Catsups and Relishes 200 XIX. Bread, Roles, Etc 211 XX. Beverages 221 XXI. Candies 228 XXII. For the Picnic Luncheon 234 XXIII. Invalid Cookery 238 XXIV. Menus 242 XXV. Misceleaneous 249San Juan Capistbano in Its Phime, (Drawn from historical sources.)In Mission Days Sketch by Alex. F.' I farmermarks Club is given on page V. FOREWORD \ ALIFORNIANS come from everywhere. Every State—nearly every county—in the Union is represented here. While a few other cities are as “cosmopoli- tan ” as Los Angeles, no other city in the world is made up of so many intel- ligent and well-to-do people so far from their old homes and from homes so widely scattered. Perhaps in proportion to popu- lation there is no other city in whose house- holds are in vogue so many varieties of cookery from so many lands and localities. It is therefore a place where housewives mayr have a most cosmopolitan comparing of notes. Without going outside their own ward or their own “social set,” they*' may' exchange recipes for English pud- dings, New England pies, French sautes, Italian pastes, Swiss hassenpfeffer, Virginia cornpone, Mexican choco- late—in fine, the dishes of every land, and from typical housekeepers thereof. Taking a hint from this fact, a committee of ladies con- nected with the Landmarks Club (Mrs. J. G. Mossin and Mrs. George H. Wadleigh) have compiled the following book from the best personal sources; and it is offered to the public in the belief that it will be of real worth to housekeepers, not only in California but elsewhere. The chapter of recipes for the most famous dishes of old- time California, Mexico and Spanish America in general, is believed to be the only reliable collection of the sort available. A brief account of the purposes and work of the Land-SPANISH-AMERICAN COOftEKY BY CHAS. F. FUMMIS E generic food habits of all long-established peoples are invariably based upon the average hygienic requirements of their habitat. The fruit-and-vegetable diet of the tropics; the om- niverous but heavily meat-consuming diet of northern lands; the still more heating fat diet of the polar regions—all are essential, in a broad way, to people in those respective envi- ronments. They have not been reasoned out by philosophers, indeed; but they have been arrived at by the slow, sure, common-sense gravitation of the race in its natural condi- tions. It is only in over-civilization, when other things than our real bodily needs begin to dictate our menu, that dyspepsia becomes our tenant. And it is a stupid traveler who mocks the ancient wisdom of the country as to what in that county should be eaten. In the most important parts of Spanish America, and particularly in the high and dry regions—the “ arid lands ” like California, Arizona, New Mexico, the great Mexican plateau, Peru, etc.—the unconscious experimentation of centuries has shaped a general dietary plan of its own ; varying in details with the locality, but harmonious enough to be reckoned as a class by itself. It is, of course, the oldest American “School of Cooker}",” with more than 350 , years at its back ; and it is also the most wide-spread. It probably also derives more from the wisdom of a still re- moter American antiquity than does an}" other national cuisine on this continent. If we incline to turn up our noses at Indians as instructors in eating, we may remember that they taught us potatos of both sorts — for not only the sweet, but the “ Irish ” potato were exclusive natives ofLANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Ill America and were never heard of in the Old World till the Spanish acquired them in the New—our corn, sago, succo- tash, chocolate, cocoa, tapioca, peanuts, Lima beans and a great many other foodstuffs. And some of these, though in every-day use among us, are never tasted in their per- fection except in Spanish America. For perfect chocolate, go to Mexico; while a Guatemala Indian would be ashamed to offer anj'-one what a majority of us would call a cup of coffee. Palatable anywhere, this general dietary plan is almost indispensable in the countries where it has grown up. It admits of infinite variation ; but its essential features are not to be disregarded. “Americans,” for instance, who set- tle in California and continue to eat precisely as they used to in Maine or New Jersey or Indiana, need not wonder if in the long run their digestions fare as would the digestion of an Eskimo removing to Ecuador and maintaining his diet of blubber. In a word, diet must be adapted to cli- mate, Natural man always does so adapt it—by the slow process of the survival of the least foolish—and has his reward. He has little need of dentists or appetizer, and biliousness, dyspepsia and gout are strangers to him. It is well for civilized people to be as wise. For such as dwell in the arid half of the United States, the Spanish-American menu can give many profitable hints. Without going into an exhaustive essa3r on the details of this food-scheme, it will be enough to note a few of its vital characteristics. It is on the whole simpler than our average United States menu, with less pastr}^, less meat, and less flummididdle bread. Fruits, vegetables and soups are rather more predominant in it. For anti-bilious reasons it is much more highly seasoned than our own cookery. One of its characteristics is a liberal use of the chile, or native American red pepper, both green and ripe. This is not like the vicious cayenne or the venomous tabasco, but sweeter, more agreeable and more healthful than either. Most Americans do not at first flush like dishes in which it predominates ; but it is an easily acquired taste—and once learned, there is nothing of which one becomes fonderLANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. IV than a good concoction of chile. Green, it is chopped and fried with potatoes or meat or beans, to their great advan- tage. It is also used whole as a wrapper for stuffing of forced-meat, cheese, etc. When ripe, dried or fresh, it is ground up and cooked as the sauce of hundreds of dishes. Its “hotness” can easily be regulated without destroying its flavor, by soaking, by removing the seeds, by adding tomatoes, and so on. In any shape it is palatable, and in almost every shape beneficial to the system though some few people find the green chiles, particularly when un- cooked, too laxative. It is really a necessity of the arid lands ; an unequaled stimulant to the liver, which tends in these climates to become torpid. A number of the most famous and typical dishes of old- time California, New Mexico, Mexico and Peru, are here printed—most of them for the first time in English. There is very little precise measuring done among these old- fashioned cooks—much depends upon the instinct and prac- tice of the chef. I myself—who learned to cook for myself on the frontiers, and to cook well—always take “some” of this and “some” of that, and have not made a very bad dish in a good many years. As with my grandmother’s doughnuts--the first things I assayed to cook in my early “baching it” in New Mexico—there had to be a sort of enlightened guess-work on my part. But after a few trials my doughnuts were as good as anyone’s. So with these Spanish-American dishes. Even if the precise proportions could be given, they might be “too rich” for a strange palate at first trial. A reasonable cook, with the following directions, can yery soon adjust proportions to personal taste. When that shall have been done, the family dietary will have been enriched by just so many new, agreeable and hygienic dishes.LANDMARKS INCORPORATtU/' TO CONSERVE THE MISSIONS AND OTHER HISTORIC LANDMARKS OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA DIRECTORS. OFFICERS. President, Chas. F. Lummis. Vice-President, Margaret Collier Graham. Secretarjr, Arthur B. Benton, 114 N. Spring St. Treasurer, J. G. Mossin, California Bank. Corresponding- Secretary, Mrs. M. E. Stilson. 812 Kensington Road. Chairman Membership Committee, Mrs. J. G. Mossin, 1033 Santee St. J. G. Mossin. Henry W. O’Melveny. Rev. M. S. Liebana. Sumner P. Hunt. Arthur B. Benton. Margaret Collier Graham. Chas. E. Lunimis. 1HE Landmarks Club, under whose auspices and for whose benefit this book is pub- lished, is an organization of well known men and women, incorporated under the laws of the State, to preserve the historic landmarks of Southern California. Its officers receive no compensation whatever. The largest effort of the club has been to preserve from further spoliation and decajr the remains of the old Fran- ciscan Missions. The noblest and most impressive ruins in the United States, these venerable piles were going to pieces with fearful rapidity, an unprotected prey of vandals and the weather. The club has secured long leases on San Juan Capistrano (1776) and San Fernando (1797) and is about to secure one on the “Mother Mission,” San Diego (1769). It has raised about $4700 by subscription and other means, and applied it to extensive preservator}^ repairs upon these three Missions. There is no Philistine “restoration.” All work is done under the expert supervision of men who have long and seriously studied the Mission architecture and history. The ruined roofs have been replaced with new and massive structures upon which the original tiles have been used. Over tzvo acres of roof have been put on. Breached walls have been repaired, leaning walls under- pinned and tied, crumbling masonry buttressed, severalVI LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. hundred tons of debris removed, and a new era of care- taking introduced. Without such steps, most of these great buildings (being of adobe, which is almost imperishable if protected but very vulnerable to dampness) would have been mere mounds by 1905. As it is, the repaired ones will now stand about as they are for another full century. Yet only a very small part of the necessary work of protection has yet been accomplished. Each of these Missions was not a mere church, but a little walled city in the wilder- ness, with scores of buildings and miles of walls. Only the chief buildings at each of these three places have thus far been safeguarded—and of their size and beauty, as well as of the work done upon them by the club, some idea may be had from the illustrations in this volume. For the great work yet to be done, funds are urgently needed ; and the club appeals to all who can feel for such a cause. Member- ship in the club is $1 a year, and there are no other bars. Life memberships are $25 ; and a few public spirited men and women have given larger sums. All contributions are acknowledged by receipt and in the magazine Out West. Moneys may be sent to the president or secretary. Besides this work upon the Missions, the club has saved the historic Plaza of Eos Angeles from obliteration, and preserved several hundred of the historic street names which were being replaced with irrelevant new titles. It is now also engaged in extensive repairs to the Mis- sion chapel at Pala. Chas. F. Eummis, Los Angeles, Cal. President. Honorary Hike Members : R. Egan, Tessa L. Kelso. Life Members : Jas. B. Eankershim, J. Downey Harvey, Ed- ward E. Ayer, John E. Francis, Mrs. John F. Francis, Mrs. Alfred Solano, Margaret Collier Graham, Miss Collier, Andrew McNally, Rt. Rev. Geo. Montgomery, Miss M. F. Wills, B. F. Porter, Prof. Chas. C. Bragdon, Mrs. Jas. W. Scott, Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst, Mrs. Annie D. Apperson, Miss Agnes Lane, Mrs M. W. Kincaid, Col. H. G. Otis, H. Jevne, J. R. Newberry, Dr. W. Jarvis Barlow, Marion Brooks Barlow, Miss Mira Hershey. Committee on Cook-book : Mrs. J. G. Mossin, Mrs. George H. Wadleigh.CHAPTER I. Some Spanish-American Dishes of California, Mexico, Peru, etc. FURNISHED BY CHAS. F. LUMMIS. CHUPE, the “national soup" OF PERU. Boil potatos, white or sweet. Shrimps are the highest touch of Chupe, but in Peru they are as large as a young lobster. The large Barataria shrimps will do. In default of them, use slices of any large, meaty fresh fish—-cod, halibut, etc. A smother is made in a pot, with butter, salt, a pinch of sweet marjoram, a little strong vinegar and a little pepper. Into this put successively the potatos, cut in halves, the shrimps or fish, quarter of a pound (for an ordinary family) of fresh cream cheese, cut up into pieces the size of the finger, and break into it four eggs. Pour on the boiling water in which the po- tatos were cooked, and boil slowly for an hour. Properly made, Chupe is admitted by travelers to be one of the most delicious soups in the world. SANCOCHADO (PERU). In a pot set water to boil, salting it first. Take rump beef, with plenty of fat, soup bones, and some dried beef. Wash carefully, and put in the pot when the water boils. Add a handful of rice, and one of peas, soaked over night. When it boils again, skim thoroughly, and add parsnips cut up, a whole onion and a couple of red chiles. When the meat is very ten- der, set back and allow to settle. In serving, the soup should be sprinkled with green peppers, onions, parsley and coriander, all chopped very fine. AJIACO (PERU). Boil prime potatos. In a stew-pan prepare a smother with salt, ground red chile, plenty of lard or butter, and shredded onions. Put iy the potatos, cut up but not smashed, and plenty of grated fresh cheese. Stir well and add a little broth, that it be not too thick. Serve with hard-boiled eggs cut in four; and sprinkle with chopped parsley and grated cheese.9 landmarks club cook book. TORREJAS DE PESCADO (PERU). (Fish fritters) : Take fried fish, remove all bones and pick to bits. Chop onion, parsley, marjoram and tomatos, and stir well together. In separate dish beat up two to four eggs till very light; pour into them, without stopping beating, the minced onion, etc. When these are well beaten together, add a little flour and continue beating until the whole is well mixed. Then add the picked-up fish, pepper and salt, all the time beat- ing the batter. Have a pan of hot lard ready, as for dough- nuts, and chop the batter into this, a spoonful at a time, and cook them a delicate brown. Very delicious shrimp fritters are made in the same way. LOMITO (peru). Take a piece of fresh pork tenderloin and slice it as for beefsteak. Take a plenty of ground chile, a little cayenne pep- per, and dissolve all in good vinegar. Put the slices in this for one hour, and then lay them aside to dry ofif. To use, grease them with a little butter, and broil. PAPAS RELLENAS (peru). (Stuffed Potatos) : Mash potatos soft and moist and sea- son well with salt and pepper. Mince up cooked beef, and make a cone of it, with raisins, clove, a little good port wine, minced hard-boiled egg and stoned ripe olives. Cover this with the batter of mashed potato, forming a ball, and fry in hot lard like doughnuts, to a golden brown. Tamal criollo (peru). (Creole Tamales) : Take white hulled corn and mash thor- oughly. Put in a clean covered dish. Put in a pot to boil, a little water with morsels of fresh pork (or chicken), with salt. When it comes to a boil, take out the meat and wet up the corn-dough with this broth. Warm a pound of lard or but- ter, add ground chile and a little anise, and mix this thoroughly with the dough. Fry the pieces of meat well with a little lard and plenty of ground chile. Make a wrapper of clean corn husks six or eight inches long, lapping so they will thoroughly enclose an oblong roll two inches in diameter. Tie one endSPANISH-AMERICAN COOKERY. 3 with corn husk. Lift half the wrapper, and in the lower cradle put a handful of the corn-dough ; nest in its center a piece of the meat, a little of the sauce in which the meat was fried, a stoned ripe olive, three or four roasted peanut kernels (peeled), and a small piece of hard-boiled egg. Cover all with another portion of the corn-dough, draw the corn-husk wrap- per over the whole and tie the other end, making the package oblong. A pot of boiling water, fairly salted, must be ready; and in this the tamales should be boiled three hours. HU ATI A (PERU). Boil fresh pork and then fry it. Boil good sweet potatos separately. Prepare a sauce with plenty of lard, ground chile, salt, cumin and the juice of a sour orange (or lemon) in a stew- pan. Put in the meat, cut in pieces, and the sweet potato in slices, and cook slowly two hours. P.IFSTEK A LA CI-IORRILLANA (PERU). In a smother of tomatos, onions, pepper, shredded green pep-» pers and a little vinegar, all with plenty of lard, cook the beef- steak in slices until thoroughly done. Serve with boiled sweet and white potatos, sliced. PERUVIAN AEBONDIGAS. (Stuffed green peppers; the Mexican Albondiga is entirely different) : Boil mutton till tender. Scald large green chile peppers and remove their thin outer skin. Hash the meat and make it into a stuffing with raisins, stoned ripe olives and hard-boiled eggs minced fine. Fill the peppers with this stuffing, and put them in a pot in which has already been prepared a sauce of tomatos, whole red chile peppers, raisins, onion and a little broth, and heat slowly, twenty minutes, without stirring. Garlic can be added. MEXICAN TAMALES. A good Mexican recipe for tamales is as follows: Place some ripe corn with a little piece of lime, and enough of water to well cover it, on the fire and let boil until the cornLANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. begins to peel. When it is cool, rub between the hands until the skin and the kernel separate. Rinse in several waters, and with a knife pick the little black points out of each grain, and leave it soaking in water out in the air over night—the Mexi- cans believe the dews possess special virtue for blanching the corn, and a good cook prides herself on the whiteness of her tamales. The next day the corn is ground on the metate (in a mortar will do). Then for nine pounds of the prepared corn take a pint of warm water and an ounce of salt; mix and heat with the hands, adding gradually 2 lbs. of melted lard. Continue heating until when you place a little ball of the dough on water it will float. Have some dried corn husks ready (which have been well washed), and on each husk place a generous spoonful of the dough; add some guiso (stuffing), tie up and steam for about four hours. Guiso.—Toast some red peppers, taking care that they do not burn ; then soak them in tepid water until they are soft. Remove the seeds and veins; grind in a mortar with a piece of bread fried in lard a little bit of chocolate, some cinnamon, all moistened with a little stock, in which a small bit of pork has been boiled. Put all these, with a little lard, into a saucepan, and when it bubbles, add the pork minced fine. Let it boil up, and it is ready for the dough. SwELT Tamales.—Are made in precisely the same way, only that the salt is omitted and i lb. of white sugar added, and rai- sins, cut up almonds and anise seed are put in the dough ac- cording to taste. Of course, the above quantity makes a large number of ta- males. They are difficult to make well, but are extremely del- icate and delicious. PATITAS CON MAN I (PERU). (Trotters with Peanuts) : Sheep’s feet or pig’s feet thor- oughly boiled; parboiled potatos, quartered, are to be put in a smother made with plenty of roasted peanuts, part whole, pai t ground up, and seasoned with allspice. Fry all together in this batter for ten minutes, stirring constantly. If very thick, add a little broth.Spanish-American cookery. 5 PAPAS CON AJI (PERU). (Peppered Potatos) : Boil potatos of the best quality, not too soft. Make a smother of the best red chile (Mexican pep- pers), much lard, fresh cheese chopped fine, a little chopped onion, and a little fine vinegar. Put this in a saucepan, put in the potatos whole, and stir well while cooking, about 20 min- utes. Add a little broth, that the sauce may not be too thick. CARNE EN ADQBO (PERU). ♦ (Meat in Pickle-sauce) : Cut into small lumps a good-sized piece of fresh pork, and put it to fry. When half fried, add chopped onion and plenty of ground red chile, stir well, add a little strong vinegar, and cook 15 minutes. MIG AS (PERU). Soak stale bread, squeeze the water out, put it in a smother with plenty of lard, ground chile, chopped onion and a pinch sweet marjoram; add plenty of fresh cheese crumbled up, and stir all constantly till well mixed, say ten minutes. Dress with stoned olives (ripe), crumbled fresh cheese and hard-boiled eggs chopped. Goat’s cheese is best for Migas. TAMAE SERRANO (PERU). (Mountaineer Tamales) : Corn-dough made in the same method as for Creole tamales, and wrappers prepared the same. Take ]/o lb. lard, the pieces of pork cooked in the broth with which the dough is wet up; onion chopped very fine, country sausage-meat, peeled roasted peanuts, a few grains of anise, stoned ripe olives and a little good sweet wine (sherry or port). Fry all this together well, and let cool off. Put corn- dough in the wrapper as before, and in the center put one of each of the things in the sauce—meat, olives, etc.—and a quan- tity of the sauce. Cover with dough, tie wrappers as before and boil three hours. GATO DE EIEBRE. (Hare Pie ) : This dish will have a curious sound to many ears; but it is fit for a king, and held in grateful remembrance by those who have ever eaten it cooked by an expert. KvenLANDMARKS CLUB COOIC BOOK. 6 the “udder of a cow” can be procured by pre-arrangement with the butcher. This preparation disputes with the Swiss “Hassen pfeffer” precedence as the most delicious dish ever made from hare or jackrabbit. Remove all bones, membranes and tendons from a hare (or jackrabbit) roasted beforehand. Pick to pieces roughly, and grind (upon a metate or in a mortar) all the meat, together with the boiled udder of a cow. Mix all, when ground, with bread crumbs moistened in soup, adding salt, pepper, parsley, a bit of garlic, thyme and bay leaves, all chopped very fine. Wet up with yolks of eggs, and give the whole another turn in the mortar. Cover the bottom of a tin pan with thin slices of ham or bacon, putting the preparation on top and covering it with other slices of ham or bacon. Bake in the oven; or cook in a steamer until done, and then fry brown. Remove from pan by putting the latter in boiling water. Remove the slices of bacon and cover the dish with bread-crumbs. PICHONES BORRACHOS. (“Drunken Pigeons”) : Stew your pigeons till nearly done. Toast a number of very red tomatos, remove the skins, and put them to fry with a good slice of bread (broken up) and a handful of almonds. Fry separately a little ground parsley (and a bit of garlic if desired), and add a pint of claret, all the broth in which the pigeons were cooked, a handful of raisins, a few pieces of citron, some ripe olives, a little sugar, cinna- mon, pepper and clove. Put the pigeons into this broth and let them cook a few minutes until done. GALLORIA. (Fried Bananas) : Ripe bananas, cut lengthwise, fried in butter or olive oil. They may also be dipped first in a batter of beaten egg. In Michoacan there is a great business in dried bananas, which are also delicious when fried. POLLOS DE LA BELLA MULATA. (Chickens a la the Beautiful Mulatto) : For four small chick- ens, brown in lard half a pound of fresh pork, quarter of a pound of almonds, a piece of bread, four ripe tomatos. Grind all in a mortar or metate. Fry onions chopped fine, with a7 SPANISH-AMERICAN COOKERY. little parsley (a bit of garlic if desired). Add the other ingre- dients and fry all together. Add the chickens, with the broth in which they have been fully cooked, with pepper, salt, ground clove and cinnamon. Let come to a boil, add a cup of sherry, and serve. OSTRAS DE LA BUENA MUJER. (“Good Woman’s Oysters”) : Slightly stew the oysters in their own liquor; dry them, and cut them up very fine. Mix up bread moistened in milk (no crusts), with parsley, onion and anchovies, all chopped very fine, salt and a little fresh butter. Knead up with the oysters, stirring in several yolks of eggs. This mixture can be laid in cakes upon the shells or in a pan powdered with fine bread-crumbs and put into the oven to brown. OUESADIEEAS de prisa. (“Hurry-up Cheese Cakes”) : Upon small and thin pan- cakes crumble cheese, old or fresh. Double the pancake over, and run a thread through the edges so the cheese cannot fall out. Put them in the oven or in the frying-pan until the cheese begins to melt. Then the Quesadillas should be eaten hot—for when cold they lose all their flavor. GUAXOLOTE EN MOEE VERDE. (Turkey in Green Sauce) : One of the simpler of scores of ways to prepare the famous Mexican dish of turkey “en mole” (mo-ly) is as follows: Grind up well (on metate or in mortar) a good quantity of tomatos with some toasted green chiles—taking the veins out of the latter if it be desired that the “mole” shall not “bite.” Grind also one or two branches of green coriander. Fry the turkey raw in medium-sized pieces; and fry the tomatos, chiles and coriander by themselves. Then put the pieces of turkey in this sauce, add water, salt it and let it boil till tender; add- ing a little ground clove, some tiny green chiles, some very small summer-squash (boiled) and some twigs of coriander. chile sauce (MEXICO). The Mexican chile Colorado or red pepper, is sweeter and less vicious than the Eastern article, and is used in innumer-8 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. able dishes. It is one of the most healthful condiments in the world, and almost a hygienic necessity in California and other non-humid lands. If an acquired taste, it is certainly one of the last to be given up. For ordinary sauces, toast lightly your red chiles, dry or fresh, in the oven. Soak in water a few minutes, and grind on a milling-stone or in a mortar, to a wet pulp. Strain in a colander to remove bits of skin. The “hotness” can be gradu- ated by leaving or removing the seeds, which contain most of the fire. Add a little salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar, and fry all together with a little butter. chile con carne (mexico). Is made by frying beefsteak or other meat, cut in cubes, in this sauce. The sauce is also excellent cold for any meat, beans, etc. Enchiladas. (There are very many recipes, but this is my favorite.) One of the most famous dishes of Mexico and early Cali- fornia. Make a chile sauce, as above described, of about 15 red chiles. Make corn-meal pancakes, rather thin and six inches across. Dip each into the fried chile mixture, lay on a large plate, cover with raw onion chopped fine, grated cheese, and stoned ripe olives cut in half. Lay on this as many other pancakes soaked in the chile and covered with the onion, cheese, and olives, as desired. Pour the chile mixture over the top; set in a hot oven about three minutes. Serve very hot, cutting it like a layer cake. Or, each pancake may be folded like a turnover, with this sauce inside ; but this is much more trouble. ANOTHER CHILE SAUCE. Take some ripe peppers and toast on the fire until they are the color of gold. While they are still warm, remove the outer skin, the veins and seeds. Add to what remains, when cool, the juice of an equal number of tomatos toasted in the same manner as the peppers, a little salt, an onion (if liked), and crush all together with a little water.SPANISH-AMERICAN COOKERY. CHILES RELLENOS CON QUESO (MEXICO). (Green Chiles stuffed with cheese) : Take big green chiles and put in hot oven until blistered. Remove from oven and wrap in a cloth, to keep the steam in to make them peel easier. Peel while still hot. Take out seeds and veins—and put inside each chile a long slice of American cheese. Dip into a light batter of eggs and flour with a little baking powder, and fry in hot fat, like doughnuts. Serve hot. Another kind of chiles rellenos is stuffed with minced meat (raisins added, if desired), and fried with a very little butter till brown. CHILES RELLENOS DE PICADILLO (MEXICO). . (Stuffed Green Peppers) : Choose large green peppers with a thick skin. Toast them for a few minutes (the Mexicans put them right on the coals, but they toast nicely on the stove or on a hot pan). Then remove the thin outer skin, the seeds and the veins, which are very hot (or, as the Mexicans sav, “muy bravo”). Let them soak in salt and water for an hour; this will remove all unpleasant fieriness. Stuff and fry either plain or rolled in egg and bread crumbs; and before removing them from the fire pour over them some tomato sauce. To make the stuffing, chop up some cold meat fine, mix with it an onion, a clove, salt, all chopped fine, and cook; adding, if you wish, a sprinkle of vinegar. To make the sauce, toast the tomatos in the same manner as the peppers, mash them with a little salt, strain and cook with a little butter. MEXICAN STUFFING FOR TURKEY. Soak a couple of rolls or a piece of bread, finely crumbled, in a quart of milk. When sufficiently soaked, add three eggs (without beating), 2 oz. butter, a little salt and dust of nutmeg, 4 oz. almonds blanched and cut into small pieces. After beat- ing this mixture well, put it to bake in the oven; and when it is cooked (you can tell this by testing it with a straw as you would a cake) stuff the turkey. FRIJOLES* (MEXICO AND CALIFORNIA). The Frijol, “Mexican brown bean” or “pink bean,” is about twice as large as our Navy bean, and much richer and more ■"Pronounced free-ho-less.landmarks club cook book. nutritious if properly prepared. The great secret is to cook it sufficiently and the oftener it is warmed over the better it becomes. Boil two cupfuls of frijoles slowly at least a day. They are often eaten thus, but are improved by frying them with hot fat, butter or salt pork. They are also excellent fried with fat and chile sauce made as directed. The favorite Lummis recipe is to heat them in a frying-pan with a little grease and very little of their liquor; and when hot stir in two-thirds of a cup of grated American cheese, rather biting. Stir thoroughly and cook ten minutes. BUNUELOS (MliXICAN FRITTERS). THE BUNUELOS MOULD. These are made in Mexico with a bunuelos iron like the cut. Any tinsmith can make it. But bunuelos are as good, if not as pretty, dropped from a spoon into the hot fat. Take i^2lbs. of flour, il/2 pints of milk, i egg, a pinch of sugar and salt, 3 teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder. Mix the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt together and sift. Beat the egg and mix it with the milk; beat again, then add to the other ingredients and stir thoroughly. The batter should be as thick as rather thick pancake batter. Have some lard hot as for fry- ing doughnuts; dip the mould carefully into the batter, just enough to cover the bottom, then shake it gently in the lard until the bunuelo floats away on the lard. When it is cooked to a golden brown, fish it out with a fork. Continue to dip the mould first in the batter, then in the lard, until all theSPANISH-AME RICAN COOKERY. II batter is used up. Then either clip the cakes in a simple syrup of sugar and water, or powder with sugar. RANFANOTE (PERU). Bring cane molasses to a boil, with a few orange peels and sticks of cinnamon. As it starts to boil, add plenty of Amer- ican cheese, crumbled fine, walnuts, peanuts and cocoanut all well broken up, very small pieces of dry bread, a few cloves, and a little butter. Let it come to a hot boil, cool on plates and sprinkle with cinnamon. COCADA (PERU). (Cocoanut Sweets) : Grate an ordinary cocoanut, grate a sweet potato and remove the starch. The fibre that is left mix with the grated nut thoroughly as possible. Put in a kettle a little water with three lbs. sugar and make a syrup. As soon as this begins to boil, clarify it with an egg. Then put into it the mixed cocoanut and sweet potato, and stir well with a wooden spoon. When it is about to boil, add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs; stir, and let it come barely to a boil. Re- move and sprinkle well with cinnamon. CAMOTES CON DUECE (PERU). (“Candied Sweet Potatos”) : Parboil small, peeled sweet potatos, cut in quarters lengthwise. Let them merely come to a boil. Put them in cane molasses or brown cane sugar syrup, as if for candy. Add four cloves and a little pepper, well ground. Boil four hours over a slow fire. Before serving, sprinkle with powdered cinnamon. CANDIED PEACHES (MEXICO). Take twenty-five large peaches and let them lie in water for a little while; then remove the down by rubbing with a cloth. Stone them and put them in a kettle with two lbs. granulated sugar—a layer of peaches and a layer of sugar—add one-half pint water and place on a moderate fire. When the syrup is thick, take off the fire, and put peaches and syrup together in a dish. Flatten the peaches with a wooden spoon and turn from time to time, putting them in a place where the sun will shine on them. When they are nearly dry roll in colored sugar. They will keep a long time.12 landmarks club cook book. ATOLE DE PINA (MEXICO). (Pineapple Gruel) : The Mexicans prepare the corn for alole in much the same way as for tamales; but it is verv nice made as follows : Into five pints of fast-boiling water besprinkle eleven heaping tablespoons of Indian meal and one teaspoon of salt. Stir well and boil for an hour. Grate one-half of a large pineapple; mix with it one pound of sugar, a small bit of cin- namon, one pint of boiling water, stir well and strain into the boiling meal. Stir the mixture well again, pour into a pitcher and serve hot or cold. If cold, it looks pretty in glass custard cups. CAJETA DE CAMOTE Y PINA (MEXICO). Clarify one and one-half pounds of sugar, strain and place again on the fire, and let it boil until when you let it fall from the spoon it is clear and smooth as a mirror. Take it off the fire and add two pounds of camote (sweet potatos) which have been boiled, mashed, and pressed through a sieve. Return to the fire, stir constantly so that it will not stick, and when you can see the bottom of the saucppan add one-quarter of a pine- apple which has been grated on a bread grater, and strained. Place again on the fire until you can see bottom once more, and it is done. Serve in a preserve dish and eat'with a fork or spoon. This makes a delicious dessert, and is well worth any trouble to make. Instead of pineapples, apples may be used in this recipe with great success, and it is much easier made. Peel, slice and core one and one-half pounds of apples, stew very soft and add to the mixture in place of the pineapple. CAJETA DE LECHE (MEXICO). Take six pints of milk, one and one-half pounds of brown sugar, and a tablespoon of flour. First clarify the sugar, that is, beat up the white of one egg thoroughly with a cup of cold water, and add this to the sugar dissolved with one of water. Heat the whole mixture until a scum appears. Remove from the fire and skim. Repeat until no scum arises. Then put three pints of the milk, the clarified sugar, and the flour (pre-SPANISH-AMERICAN COOKERY. 13 viously mixed with a little milk) in a saucepan on the fire. Stir it constantly, being careful not to remove the spoon, and let it boil until you can see the bottom of the saucepan. Then add another one and one-half pints of milk and repeat the opera- tion; lastly add the remaining one and one-half pints of milk and continue to stir until you can again see the bottom of the saucepan. Two things of importance are, to stir constantly and never to take the spoon with which you are stirring it, out of the saucepan until you remove it from the fire; then continue to stir briskly until it is thick. Pour on a plate, let it cool and it is ready to serve. ALMOND PASTE (MEXICO). Six pints milk, sweetened to taste. Add the yolks of six eggs previously beaten with a little milk. Add four ounces al- monds, blanched and pounded up (with a wooden potato- masher is easiest). Put this on the fire; and when it thickens, add four ounces more of almonds toasted and pounded. Let it boil up three times and it is done. Turn into plates and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Next day put it into the oven until it becomes a light brown. WALNUT PASTE (MEXICO). Dissolve one and one-half pounds sugar in one quart milk. Strain it. Add one-half pound ground walnuts, and boil. When done, take it from the fire and stir till it thickens. CAJETA DE CELAYA (MEXICO). Six pints of cow’s milk, three pints of goat’s milk, mix and boil; allow it to cool, and remove the cream or scum. Burn one and one-half pounds sugar and then stir it into the milk, and add to it four and one-half pounds more of sugar, and six ounces of ground rice. Place the mixture on the fire and let it boil until it is thick. One can tell this, if when one takes a little of the paste in a spoon and whirls it around it adheres to the spoon. Then remove from the fire and add half a pint of sherry, stir until it is well mixed, and pour into plates or pretty dishes.LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. LECHE DE PINA (MEXICO). (Pineapple Milk) : Six pints of milk, the yolks of six eggs, six ounces of pounded almonds, one pineapple. Sweeten the milk to taste and beat it into the yolks; strain and put on the fire. When it has boiled, add the pounded almonds and let it cook, then mix in the pineapple, previously mashed, and boil until it is thick, and remove from the fire. It should be quite thick, but not enough to cut into squares, and must also be eaten with a spoon or fork. It makes a dainty dessert. OTHER SPANISH-AMERICAN RECIPES. CALABACITOS CON CHILE VERDE. Half pound salt pork, two summer squash, one can of corn or the same amount of green corn cut from the cob, two onions, six green peppers. Fry onions and salt pork together, then add the vegetables and enough water to cook well. It should cook down very dry when done so that a little cream may be added before serving. Miss H. Knickerbocker. CALABACITOS CON QUESO. Take one tablespoonful olive oil, put in two onions and six green peppers chopped fine, fry a few minutes. Cut two sum- mer squash into small squares, two or three tomatos peeled and sliced, put in enough water to cook well, but keep as dry as possible without burning. When ready to serve add some grated cheese. Miss H. Knickerbocker. CARNE CON CHILE. Half pound salt or pickled pork, two pounds lean meat— mutton or beef—four onions, two tablespoonfuls of ground red chile, one can tomatos or six or seven fresh tomatos. Cut the pork in very small pieces, put in kettle with onions and fry till all is a nice brown, then add the meat cut in small pieces; fry this only a minute or two, then add tomatos and chile and a little more water. Let it cook slowly two hours or more. When done thicken with a little flour and water and serve. Miss H. Knickerbocker.SPANISH-AMERICAN COOKERY. IS CAPIROTADA, A SPANISH PUDDING. Take three or four small green onions, chop fine, fry in hot lard, add a pint of hot water, put in sugar enough to make quite sweet, a handful of raisins, salt and a little fresh coriander leaf. Take slices of stale bread, wet in mixture, lay in baking pan one layer, pour over a little juice, put on some pieces of cheese, another layer of bread, etc., till the pan is filled, then pour over all the mixture and brown in the oven. Miss H. Knickerbocker. * CHILE CON HUEVOS. Mix two tablespoonfuls of ground red chile with a teaspoon- ful of flour in a little water until smooth, fry in a tablespoonful of hot lard a few seconds, add to this plenty of salt and hot water enough to make a thick gravy. Beat yolks and whites of four eggs separately, mix lightly together, add salt, drop this mixture into hot lard by tablespoonfuls, fry like dough- nuts. When done put in a tureen and pour the chile gravy over them. Serve immediately. Miss H. Knickerbocker. * CHILES RELLENOS CON CARNE. Prepare the green chile as for chiles rellenos con queso. Veal, beef, chicken or giblets may be used. Take one pound of cooked meat, one small onion, a sprig of parsley. Fry the onion and parsley together to a nice brown in olive oil, put in meat, one glass of port or sherry wine, a suspicion of garlic juice, a pinch of oregano* and salt. Stuff the peppers with this mix- ture. Plave ready a thin batter of egg and flour, dip the pep- pers in this and fry like croquettes, lay on colander to drain and serve with tomato sauce. Stew tomatos, strain and thicken with flour rubbed in butter for tomato sauce. Miss H. Knickerbocker. CHILES RELLENOS CON QUESO. Take the large green peppers, toast over fire then dash into cold water and remove the outer skin, open carefully from the top, take out the seeds and veins and lay in cold water. Use one-third onion very well chopped and two-thirds mild cheese * Oregano is marjoram.16 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. cut very fine, dress this with olive oil, vinegar, a pinch of oregano and a few olives. Fill the peppers with this mixture, lay in baking pan, pour on a batter made of four eggs beaten lightly, ‘half cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder. Make as many layers as you like—bake about thirty minutes. Miss H. Knickerbocker CHONZO. One pound fresh pork, one pound beef, one glass port wine, one-third teaspoonful ground cloves, one teaspoon *black pep- per, one teaspoonful oregano, two pods of garlic chopped very fine, salt, teaspoonful ground red chile. Mix all together. Have ready a frying pan of hot lard or olive oil about two tablespoonfuls. Put in the mixture and fry. When ready to serve drop in two eggs and stir well. Miss H. Knickerbocker. COLACHK. One quart young green tender pumpkin, two medium tomatos, one good size onion, one tooth garlic, one green pepper, one large tablespoon lard. Wash pumpkin and take out seeds, cut up into dice. Put lard into pot and when hot put pumpkin in and let fry about five minutes, stir- ring often ; salt. Then put in other ingredients, cut up real fine, cover and set back; cook about three-quarters to one hour. Mrs. A. P. Kbrckhoff, PAN RELLENO. Prepare onions and cheese as for chiles rellenos con queso, take a loaf of French bread, cut into the long way of the loaf, put mixture between the two slices and some on top, put in oven and bake. Miss H. Knickerbocker. ENCHILADAS. Fifteen dried peppers, half a pint of California olives, one cup of grated cheese, four tablespoonfuls of minced chives or onions, two cups of corn meal, half a cup of flour, half a tea spoonful of salt, tablespoonful of lard or shortening, one egg, tablespoonful of vinegar. Remove all seeds and string from peppers, wash thoroughly,SPANISH-AMERICAN COOKERY. 17 put in stew-pan, cover with one pint of water, cook until the pulp on peppers is soft, about twenty minutes, strain through a colander into a deep bowl or pan, mash the chiles also through colander, the pulp will go through, leaving skins behind, mix the pulp well with the water, add the vinegar to this. Have frying pan hot, put in a heaping kitchen spoonful of lard, when melted and hot, put in a teaspoonful of chopped onions, •let brown lightly, add heaping spoonful (also kitchen, and quite large) of flour, stir well together, then put in pepper pulp and the salt. Should sauce be too thick, thin down with boiling water. Cut olives in small pieces, grate cheese, and mince the onions or chives. Make a batter of the meal, flour, half tea- spoonful of salt, lard and egg, a little thicker than for hot cakes, fry in hot lard or oil, in small cakes; cook all the cakes first, dip them in chile sauce, one at a time, put on a hot platter, sprinkle olives, onion, and lastly cheese on each one, layer by layer, until all the cakes are used up, then pour sauce over all. Mrs. Henry Worthington. BERNALILLO CHILE SAUCE. ' Twelve large tomatos, twelve green chiles, twelve medium onions, chop well; three cups sugar, three cups vinegar, two teaspoons allspice, one teaspoon cayenne pepper, two heaping teaspoons salt. Boil all together till thick. Hannah M. Lund.CHAPTER II. SOUPS. Broth or stock may be made by boiling the cracked joints of beef, veal, or mutton in water, in the proportion of two and one-half pints to each pound of bones and meat. The bones and meat should be of about equal weight. Chicken and veal added to beef make a more delicate soup. Put the meat in the pot, cover with cold water, and let it come to a boil, then skim. Next set the pot where it will sim- mer slowly four or five hours, when it should be done. The next day, when the broth is cold, and the fat which has hardened on the top has been removed, a nice jelly will be formed, which, if kept in a cold place, should keep one week. When vegetables are used, they should be added only in time to become well cooked. If onions are used, they should be fried in a little hot butter, before they are added to the soup. Potatos and cabbage should be boiled in separate water, before they are added to a soup. Just before dinner each day, if soup is to be served, it is only necessary to cut off some of the jelly, heat it, serve it alone or add any flavoring desired, as onion, tomato, asparagus, green peas, macaroni, vermicelli, tapioca, or any other flavoring. Stock should be kept in a stone jar, and is valuable aside from making soups, for gravies, sauces, and stews. TO CLEAR SOUP STOCK. Allow the white and ^hell of one egg for every quart of stock. Set it on the fire and stir till hot, let simmer ten min- utes, then add a cup of cold water, and strain through a fine strainer or napkin. * M. B. w., "How We Cook in Los Angeles.” ALMOND SOUP. Pour pounds of veal, three quarts of cold water, simmer four hours. Add one medium onion, two stalks of celery, sprig of parsley, salt and pepper; strain and when cold remove the fat.SOUPS. 19 Cook together one tablespoon of butter and one heaping spoon of corn starch; add to the boiling soup and cook five minutes. Add a half pint of sweet cream, salt and pepper to taste; then add two ounces of almonds blanched and chopped very fine. Mrs. Phebe M. Jewett. SOUP OF DRIED APRICOTS. ■ Wash in warm water dried apricots or peaches, boil them for one or two hours, strain soup; add sugar to taste; cut stiff baked custard in little squares and let them come to a boiling in the strained soup, or use instead custard squares farina. Boil farina with sugar in milk till it stiffens under constant stirring to prevent burning to the stew-pan ; take from stove for two minutes, stir in two well beaten whites of eggs; let it cool; cut into little squares of inch sizes; let these come to a boiling in strained fruit soup. Mrs. H. E. Kiessiiaukr SOUP OF ASPARAGUS. Take two bunches asparagus, peel them and boil till tender; during that time boil in another pot carrots, celery, turnip, little leek, green of parsley, onion, tomatos, etc., etc., till soft; mash it, strain it; add to this the strained asparagus water, teaspoon- ful of butter, salt a little and boil it with home-made, fine-cut noodles. Now cut asparagus in half length; that is, use only the short, soft part, and prepare these in any preferable style as a vegetable dish. Instead of noodles: Beat well two eggs, whites and yolks separately, with four tablespoonfuls flour, salt, little pepper, grated nutmeg, and drop into this boiling soup gradually with the knife. Let it boil for five to seven minutes. Mrs. H. E. Kiesshauer. BEEF STOCK. Two and one-half pounds beef, two pounds shin of beef, one pound neck of mutton, one knuckle of veal; put in two quarts of cold water and bring quickly to boiling point. Skim and put on back of range to simmer for two hours. Add two lengths of celery, one dozen pepper-corns, one onion, one tur- nip, one teaspoon salt, and simmer another hour. Strain and20 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. put aside for one day, when all the fat can be removed. In the summer, kitchen bouquet can be used instead of vegetables. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. BLACK BEAN SOUP. 1 ut one pint of black beans to soak over night in two quarts of cold water. On the following morning drain off the stale water and replace by two quarts of fresh water. Fry half onion and four stalks of celery in a tablespoonful of butter and add these to the beans. Boil all together till tender, then pass through a colander and replace on the stove. Season with salt, peppei and thiee tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce. Blend a tablespoon of flour and butter and with a little lemon stir in the soup. Before serving, pour into the tureen half glass of good sherry wine. Mrs. Stilson. BOUILLON. Boil separately one chicken and one soup bone, keeping both well covered with water which has been salted to taste. Let stand a day; after removing the grease, mix the two stocks to- gether. Season with salt, red pepper, one small stalk of celery, three bay leaves, one small bunch of parsley; strain through a bag, in which crushed eggshells and the white of one egg, beaten to a stiff froth, have been placed. Keep pouring through until it runs perfectly clear. Louise S. Holterhoff. BROWN SOUP (SOUTHERN). Piece of beef as for any soup in cold water (one pound to a quart of water), twelve white cloves; boil until meat is tender. Take out meat, skim, add chopped vegetables, cook an hour, then strain. Return clear soup to fire. Take two teaspoons flour, moisten with cold water until smooth like cream, stir into soup. Then add five meat balls made of meat chopped fine, bread crumbs, hard boiled egg chopped fine, and a pinch of sago. Broil with raw egg, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, fry brown and drop in soup. Boil up once. Slice two lemons, add two tablespoons tomato catsup and a tablespoon of vinegar. Mrs. Jerry Conroy.SOUPS. 21 CHERRY soup. Unseed three or four pounds of cherries, boil them with a little lemon peel, two cloves, cinnamon with three pints of water for about half hour’s constant boiling, strain, add sugar to taste, juice of one lemon. Stir one or two eggs with a spoon, half tablespoon of butter, one cup full ground zwieback or bread crumbs, little nutmeg, salt and a little pepper to a dough, butter palm of your hands, form into round little balls, hazel nut size and boil them for about seven to ten minutes in your strained fruit soup. Peach or strawberry soup may be prepared the same way. Mrs. H. E. Kiessiiauer. CREAM OP CERERY. Boil a trimmed head of celery in one pint of water for thirty or forty minutes; boil a piece of mace and a large slice of onion in one pint of milk; mix one tablespoonful of flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk; add this to the boiling milk, and cook for ten minutes. Mash celery in the water in which it has been cooked, mix it into the boiling milk, add one table- spoonful of butter and season with pepper and salt to taste. Strain and serve immediately. This may be improved by add- ing one teacupful of whipped cream when the soup is in the tureen. Mrs. M. J. Connell. cheese soup (Spanish). . Take three large green peppers, roast them on the coals, throw them into cold water and skin them. Shred them and throw them into about a tablespoonful of hot lard. When well fried pour in about a pint of hot water and season with a little salt. Before serving put in a large cup of grated cheese and a few cracker crumbs. Mrs. W. O’Donoughue. CHESTNUT PUREE. One quart chestnuts, two tablespoons thick cream, two table- spoons butter, half teaspoon salt, quarter teaspoon paprika, quarter teaspoon onion juice. Shell, blanch and boil chestnuts till soft; press them through a colander and mix all the other22 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. ingredients with them; make them quite hot; press through a potato sieve and serve. This may be served separately, or piled lightly in center of a dish if surrounded by meat. Miss Kate K. Whitaker. CHICKEN BROTH IN CUPS. Chop a chicken into pieces and put them into an earthenware pot with two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, one teaspoonful of coriander seed; pour in two quarts of water and boil for chree hours, skimming frequently; then add a handful or so of lettuce leaves, cover over the pot, remove it from the fire, let it stand for twenty minutes, strain through a cloth or fine sieve, and serve. * Mrs. M. J. Connell. CHICKEN GUMBO. Cut up a young chicken, wash and season well, roll in flour, then fry in good dripping with a sliced onion to a light brown. Then add a cupful of strained tomatos, more seasoning of salt and paprika, and after it boils again add two dozen fine okra-pods sliced, and cook half an hour after it begins to boil. Mrs. C. E. Thom, Saula Monica. CLAM BROTH. Three pounds clams, one pint milk, one spoon flour, one spoon butter, pepper to taste. Brush and rinse clams and bring to boil in one cup water; remove clams and strain liquor through cheese cloth. Boil milk in double boiler and add flour, butter creamed, pepper and clam liquor, and serve very hot. MRS. J. G. Mossin. CONSOMME DUCHESSE. Butter a baking sheet, cover with four ounces of puff-paste, cook in the oven for six minutes, then cover the paste with forcemeat in small lumps laid at a little distance apart. Cut the paste into twelve equal sized pieces, each piece holding a lump of the forcemeat; pour one quart of boiling consomme over and serve. MRS. M. J. Connell.23 .SOUPS. CORN CHOWDER. Put six onions chopped fine in porcelain kettle with one cup butter. Cook until tender, then add six ears of corn cut from the cob, six potatos pared and sliced, six crackers and two quarts water; let all boil till potatos are done. Put on quart milk in separate dish to boil and add last thing. Let all boil up once and serve. Do not stir while cooking, as it spoils the looks. In winter canned corn will do. Mrs. Capen. | CORN SOUP. Grate corn from six ears, put corn into a kettle with one cup of water and let boil fifteen minutes; strain. Have a pint of milk in double boiler, thicken with one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter. Add corn and liquor; boil five minutes. Put half teaspoon salt and pepper to taste in tureen. Pour soup and serve hot. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. CRAB .SOUP. Two crabs cooked, shelled and chopped fine, one stalk of celery chopped fine. Place meat and celery in one quart of water and boil half an hour. Season with salt, pepper; then add one quart of milk; boil and pour in tureen on minced parsley. Lobsters may be served in the same way. Mrs. Mary J. Schallert. CREME A LA RETNE. Make a good chicken bouillon, strong enough to jelly when cold. Take off every particle of grease. Season with black pepper and salt. Thicken a very little, and add a lump of fresh butter. Put in enough of rich cream to whiten. Serve with small sippets of toasted bread, hot, in cups. Mrs. George j. Denis. SOUP WITH LERERICLOSSE. One-half pound calves’ liver scraped from skin and sinews. The liver, one spoonful very finely chopped onions and two ounces of butter, browned until dry. When cold put in mortar, rub it smooth, then rub through sieve. Add to this three beaten eggs, salt, nutmeg blossom, cardamum, two spoonfuls24 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. of floui. Place in buttered mold, bake light brown in oven. A^ter baked, cut into squares or small spoonfuls, drop into bouillon. Mrs. Mary J. Schallert. cream OP lima BEAN SOUP. One pint of Pima beans cooked very tender; press through a colander. Add one quart of fresh milk and a tablespoon, of butter and a little flour, rubbed together. Pepper and salt, let come to a boil and serve. Mrs. James C. Kays. French tomato soup. Take one quart of tomatos, three pints of boiling water, one teaspoonful of soda, pepper and salt to taste, butter the size of an egg, one small onion chopped fine, and one quart of milk; pour the boiling water over the tomatos and onion, and boil until the vegetables are nearly done (fifteen or twenty minutes) strain and rub them through a sieve; meanwhile boil the milk and stir into it the soda and butter; after it boils up once, set it back to keep hot; put the pepper and salt with the tomatos, and let them simmer five minutes; then stir in the milk. Serve at once. The onion may be omitted. Add rolled cracker. Mrs. A. Petsch. eruit soup eor children's lunch ^Norwegian). One quart boiling milk and two tablespoons or more corn starch. Boil thoroughly, adding a pinch of salt and half cup sugar. Fifteen minutes before serving add left-over dabs of jam jelly, peach preserves, strawberries, etc. All kinds of fruit mixed—more the better. Mrs. Koepfli. julienne (french). Cut in small dice or thin shreds, some carrots, one or two turnips and potatos and some onions. Put a good lump of butter in a saucepan over a brisk fire; stir in the vegetables and let them cook until they become a light golden color; then gradually pour in some stock, or, if none can be had, some water in which beans or peas have cooked. Salt and pepper the soup and allow it to boil for an hour and a half, or twoSOUPS. 25 hours. If desired, at the time of serving the hot soup may he poured over some thin slices of bread which have been fried a golden brown in butter. Marthe Durnfrin. GUMBO FILK. Joint a large chicken, a full grown ben is best. Place upon the stove a soup pot half filled with hot water. Fry the chicken a light brown and drop the pieces as done, into the soup pot. Cut up one onion, two slices of ham, one or two tomatos and some parsley, fry all together, and add to the chicken. Cook slowly for six hours. Remove some good pieces of breast, and place in the tureen, strain off the soup, add salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Plump a couple of dozen of oysters, by heat- ing them with a little butter and put them into the tureen also. Then stir into the gumbo enough file to thicken. Pour ovei the oysters and chicken and serve immediately. Serve with a tablespoonful of well boiled rice in each plate. File is made from the very young leaves of the sassafras, dried and powdered. Mrs. George J. Denis. MOCK BISQUE SOUP. Two cups milk, three tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, half teaspoon salt, one spk. pepper, two cup tomato juice, quarter teaspoon soda ; combine as for cream sauce. Mix tomato and soda; let stand five minutes, heat and serve immediately. Victoria Ellis. MUSHROOM SOUP. Prepare the mushrooms bv peeling and boiling for two hours. Two spoonfuls butter (melted) add one spoonful flour; mix smooth. Add one pint milk, slightly heated, and also a small quantity of stock. When the mushrooms are soft press through a fine colander and season to tastek (Include nutmeg if pre- ferred.) Stir constantly in a double saucepan until the mush- rooms are well heated. Mrs. Hugh W. Vail. MUSHROOM SOUP. l>oil one onion and a bunch of parsley cut up fine in half a cup of stock. Then strain it. Add half a can of mushrooms26 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. sliced fine and the juice. Stir it twenty minutes, then add one cup of milk and two cups of stock, a tablespoonful of butter, two of flour rubbed together, and add to the soup a very little red pepper if desired. Mrs. E. D. Neff nut's SWUUT PUA SOUP. Boil half pint shelled sweet peas until tender. Remove, drain and mash through a sieve. Retain pulp, adding a little water, butter the size of a walnut, and pepper and salt to suit taste. In a separate saucepan boil one and one-half pints of milk slightly thickened with flour. Mix half and half of each when serving. Mrs. Alfred J. Bayer. ONION SOUP. Put some butter in a pan over a brisk fire; cut in thin slices two large onions and fry them in the butter till they are light yellow but not brown. Then mix with them a level tablespoon- ful of flour and allow it to cook until it becomes light brown, stirring it constantly. Then gradually pour in about a quart of milk, and half a quart of water; salt and pepper. Allow the mixture to boil for at least fifteen minutes. Before serving, pour the boiling soup over some thin slices of bread. This soup can be made without milk. If water only is usea the hot soup just before serving can be slowly poured into two yellows of eggs and well stirred. It then becomes cream col- ored. Marthe DurneriN. OKRA GUMBO. - Cut a quart of okra in thin, small slices. Fry it in a large tablespoonful of lard. Put a tablespoonful of lard and a large spoonful of sifted floor in a granite or porcelain saucepan, and stir carefully until the flour acquires a deep brown color, then put in a finely chopped onion and continue to stir until it is thoroughly cooked. Add the fried okra and any scraps of cold turkey or chicken; stir this all a while and add half a can of tomatos, three cloves, a teaspoon ful «of Worcestershire sauce; salt and red and black pepper to taste. Then add a quart of hot water, stirred in slowly; let boil with the lid on until as thick as desired. Serve with boiled rice. Mrs. L. A. Grant..SOUPS. 27 OXTAIL SOUP. Two ox tails, two slices of ham, one ounce of butter, two carrots, two turnips, three onions, one leek, one head of celery, one bunch of savory herbs, one bay leaf, twelve whole pepper- corns, four cloves, tablespoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of ketchup, half glass of port wine, three quarts of Water. Cut up the tails, separating them at the joints; wash them and put them into a stew-pan with the butter. Cut the vegetables in slices and add them, with the pepper-corns and herbs. Put in half pint of water and stir it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn. Fill up the stew-pan with the water and when boiling add the salt. Skim well, and simmer very gently for four hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, skim and strain the soup. Thicken with flour, and flavor with the ketchup. Put back the tails, simmer for five minutes and serve. Mrg. William S. Cross. OYSTER PUREE. One quart oysters, six ounces butter, three tablespoons sifted flour, one quart cream, salt and pepper. Cook the oysters well and put through a colander; set the liquor aside and chop the oysters fine. Make a cream sauce of the other ingredients as follows: Put the butter in a saucepan and when it bubbles add the flour, stirring constantly until the flour is without a lump. Add the cream and let boil a minute. Then add liquor and chopped oysters, salt and pepper. Mrs. Frank Thomas. SCOTCH BROTH. Two pounds neck of mutton, one cup of barley, one onion filled with cloves, one carrot cut fine, bit of thyme. Cook alto- gether ; when well done remove the meat and onions, cut a lot of meat in small cubes to put back in the soup, then stir well. Before serving stir in a small cup of cream or half milk and cream and serve at once. Mrs. Slauson. TOMATO SOUP. T ake a can of tomatos or a quart of fresh tomatos and bring them to a boil; strain through a coarse strainer. Add one tea- spoonful of dry soda and when the foaming ceases add a quart 328 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. of milk and a teaspoonful of butter. Season the soup with salt and red pepper and thicken slightly with a little cracker crumbs. Boil the soup a few moments and it is ready for eating. Miss Elizabeth Shankland. TURKEY SOUP. Crack all the bones and cut all the meat of a cold turkey left over from a meal. Add an onion, a carrot, a turnip, celery, parsley, in fact any vegetable von may happen to have at hand. Boil slowly for three hours. Strain and add boiled rice. Mrs Hermann Hellman. turtle bean SOUP. One pint turtle beans, two quarts cold water, one pound beef, one small onion, small pieces salt pork, pinch cayenne pepper, salt if not sufficiently seasoned from the pork, stalk of celery or saltspoonful of celery seed, half dozen cloves, half dozen all- spice, small blade of mace, one bay leaf, little thyme, parsley and majoram, small teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce; a cup of tomato added is an improvement. Soak the beans over night in water enough to cover them; in morning pour off water, put them in to boil in two quarts of cold water, simmer (after comes to a boil) five or six hours, until the beans are cooked to a pulp. If too thick, add a little stock—should be a good consistency, not thin. Press through a strainer. Pour soup in tureen, adding two sliced hard-boiled eggs, one sliced lemon, one wine glass of sherry. Serve hot with croutons. It is the turtle bean which is purple which is used, not the black bean. If made properly it is excellent and better the second day. Mrs J. G. Chandler. VEGETABLE CREAM SOUP. Take four potatos, four tomatos, two carrots, one large onion, one turnip, a little parsley. Cover with two quarts of cold water, boil until tender, and strain through a colander. Set back on the stove and add one quart of milk; thicken with tablespoon ful of flour rubbed into one tablespoonful of butter. Season to taste. Mrs. C. M. Sanders.SOUPS. 29 Mrs. Mary J. Schallert. WHITE BROTH. One ounce finely shredded salt pork, same of suet; add one carrot, one onion, a bouquet of herbs, thyme, parsley and shallot, twelve pepper-corns, four cloves ; brown these well four minutes; add four ounces of flour, one glass white wine and a good sized knuckle of veal; three quarts of water. Simmer three hours, strain, and it is ready for use. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. WINE SOUP. One pint sauterne, one of water ; when it boils, thicken with one spoonful arrow root; put a piece of lemon rind, and a stick of cinnamon (which you remove),a tablespoon of chopped almonds, and the yolks of four eggs into tureen; pour the boiling liquor, stirring all the time. Use the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, put in the soup in little balls to garnish. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. WINE SOUP (EOR SIX OR eight). One and one-half pints of water in which is boiled a piece of lemon rind, a few cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg about five minutes. Then add a pint of white wine. Two tablespoonfuls of flour and of butter blended, and add gradually a little of the boiled soup. The yolks of three eggs and one whole egg well beaten added to this and beaten gradually into the remain- ing soup, whipping constantly for five minutes to make light. Season with a little salt, half cup sugar, at last adding half pint of cream.CHAPTER III. FISH. ABALONE FRITTERS. Two abalones. Peel abalones, wash and then dry them thor^ oughly, then pound them to a pulp; if they cannot be pounded, chop them as fine as possible. Two eggs, one cup milk, one and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. Mix well, add chopped abalones and drop into boiling, lard. Josephine A. Seaman. CODFISH IN CREAM. Pick up one pint of codfish, pour boiling water on, let stand on back of stove. Put one pint milk in saucepan,'saving half cup cream. One tablespoon of butter, one of flour; stir into the hot milk; then add one egg beaten light to the half cup of cold milk, and stir this in. After it has boiled up, throw in the codfish, drained dry, and cook slowly five minutes. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. CRAB CAKES FOR BREAKFAST OR LUNCH. Take the crab after it is picked, season it high with red pepper and salt. Then add butter and make into round cakes, using a little flour to hold them together. Dip cakes in egg and cracker beaten fine and fry in hot butter or lard. Mrs. Stephen M. White. CRAB CREOLE. Two onions, one pepper, two medium sized tomatos, chopped fine and simmered in butter. When done add cream and cay- enne pepper; lastly the meat of a crab, and let it all warm through. Mrs Fred Walton. CRAB A LA FRAN9AISE. Place a layer of crab in a baking dish, or ramekins, spread over it a little home-made mustard, a little cayenne pepper, some chopped parsley, and a little salt. Then pour over theFISH. 31 first layer enough cream sauce to cover. Then another layer of crab until the dish is filled. Sift some cracker crumbs over the top. Put some bits of butter on the top and bake a light brown. The cream sauce is made with a lump of butter, melted in a saucepan, to which a tablespoonful of flour is added. This is stirred over a moderate fire; milk is added until the sauce is only moderately thick. Mrs. George J. Denis. CREAM FISH. Boil six pounds of fish. When cold, pick to pieces. Make a sauce of one quart of milk, in which boil an onion tied in a bag; when the milk boils, stir in a cupful of butter, rubbed in five tablespoons sifted flour. Let cook thoroughly. Season with salt, red pepper, little parsley chopped fine. Mix with fish, sprinkle bread crumbs on top and bake a few moments. Mrs. C. C. Carpenter. SCALLOPED FISH. Pick any cold fresh fish or salt codfish, left from the dinner, into fine bits, carefully removing all the bones. Take a pint of milk in a suitable dish and place it in a saucepan of boiling water; put into it a few slices of onion, cut very fine, a sprig of parsley minced fine; add a piece of butter as large as an egg, a pinch of salt, a sprinkle of white pepper; then stir in two tablespoonfuls of corn starch or flour rubbed in a little cold milk; let all boil up and remove from the fire. Take a dish you wish to serve it in, butter the sides and bottom; put first a layer of the minced fish, then a layer of the cream, then sprinkle over that some cracker or bread crumbs, then a layer; of fish again, and so on, until the dish is full; spread cracker or bread crumbs last on the top to prevent the milk from scorching. Mrs. E. B. Millar. MARINADE HERRING. Soak six Holland herrings over night in cold water; then skin and take out bones and cut in squares. Put the roe through a sieve, cutting with lemon or vinegar; cut one onion32 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. in thin slices, use a teaspoon pepper-corn, four cloves, half cup diluted vinegar; let stand twenty-four hours. It is then ready for use. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. LOBSTER CHOPS. Cut half pound of lobster into small dice. Put two ounces of butter into stew-pan ; when it bubbles, sprinkle in two ounces of flour. Cook it, then pour in a cup of boiling cream and the lobster dice. Stir until scalding hot, then remove from the fire; when slightly cooled stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, a grating of nutmeg, little cayenne and salt to taste. Return the mixture to the fire, stir long enough to well set the egg. Butter a platter on which put the lobster about half an inch thick; place on ice for two or three hours, then form it into chops, pointed at one end, turn in bread crumbs, egg and crumbs again, fry in boiling lard; stick a claw in each one. Mrs. E. Woltkrs. CREAMED LOBSTER. One cupful lobster meat cut in dice, one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful flour, one cupful milk or cream, one tea- spoonful salt, dash cayenne pepper, yolks two eggs. Put the butter in a saucepan, when melted add flour. Cook a few min- utes, but not brown; add the milk or cream and stir until per- fectly smooth. To this add two yolks beaten and stir, then add the meat. Season. Mix carefully with a wooden spoon so as not to break the meat. The filling should be very creamy. Mrs. L. W. Blinn. lobster WITH CURRY. Pick out all the meat from two good sized, fine freshly boiled and split lobsters. Cut the meat up in one-inch length equal pieces. Have a saucepan on the hot range with an ounce of very good butter; add the lobster to it and let cook for five minutes. Season with one pinch of salt and a half pinch of pepper. Place in a bowl one tablespoonful of Indian curry, with half a wine glassful of good white wine, mix well to- gether, then pour it into the lobster. Cook for two minutes. Add two gills of hot Allemande sauce; shuffle briskly one min-33 FISH. ute longer. Make a border of fresh boiled rice all around the hot dish ; dress the lobster right in the center and serve hot. Mrs. L. A. Grant. CREAMED LOBSTER. Four lobsters boiled and cut in half, being careful not to split the shell. Remove the meat, clean thoroughly and stew. One-quarter onion grated, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, one and one-half cups of boiling water. Put the butter on the stove in a saucepan, add the onion, then flour, stir well, then add boiling water, cook- five minutes. Take off the stove and add the well beaten eggs, mix well into this the lobster and season. Wash the shells, fill with the preparation, add little lumps of butter on top of each and sprinkle with bread or cracker crumbs and bake until brown. Frances Widnev Workman. LOBSTER CUTLETS. A lobster weighing two and one-half or three pounds, three tablespoonfuls butter, half cupful of stock (or cream or milk), one heaping tablespoonful of flour, a little cayenne, salt, a scant pint of bread crumbs, two eggs, beaten, twelve sprigs parsley chopped fine. Cut the meat of lobster into fine dice and season with pepper and salt. Put the butter on to heat, add the flour, and when smooth add the stock (or cream dr milk) and one well beaten egg ; season. P>oil up once, add the lobster, and take from fire immediately. Now add a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Pmtter a platter and pour the mixture on it to the thickness of an inch. Make perfectly smooth with a knife and set away to cool. When cool cut in oblong pieces, dip in beaten egg and then the bread crumbs, being sure to have every part covered. Place in frying basket and plunge in boiling hot lard. Fry a rich brown. Canned lobster can be used. Miss Maurice. LOBSTER NEWBERG. Cut the meat of a large boiled lobster into pieces, a little less than an inch square. Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste with a tablespoon of cream. Cook together34 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. in a saucepan, two tablespoons of butter and a heaping' dessert- spoon of flour. Stir into this the paste made of the yolks, then slowly a cupful of cream, to which a pinch of soda has been added. When the cream has reached the boiling point, add the lobster meat, a pinch each of salt, red pepper and ground mace. .Stir over the fire a minute or two, add a wineglass of sherry and serve. Mrs. Von Schmidt. LOBSTER RAMEKINS. Take a boiled lobster and cut into dice. Put into a sauce- pan two and a half tablespoons butter, well thickened, add the lobster with half cup strained tomato, quarter cup stock. Cook fifteen minutes with half box mushrooms. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. Lastly add half glass sherry. Serve in ramekins or paper cases. Mrs. K. Woltkrs. DELMONICO OYSTERS. Two quarts of oysters (canned oysters can be used), washed and drained. Melt one cup of butter, add to the oysters and let come to a boil. Take from the stove and add one cupful of cream or milk, one tablespoonful of flour in a little milk to thicken ; season with pepper and salt to taste. Put back on stove and let come to a boil again, then add the yolks of three well beaten eggs, pour immediately over hot butterd crackers or toast. Miss Mauricb. FRIED OYSTERS. Dry oysters, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, drop in deep hot fat. Drain on brown (butcher) paper. They will be dry and crisp. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. FRICASSEED OYSTERS AND MUSHROOMS. Thirty oysters, one cup mushrooms sliced, one tablespoonful flour, three gills cream, yolk of one egg, salt and pepper. Cook- together butter and flour over hot water. Pour upon them the cream, put in the oysters and mushrooms, stir in the eggs very slowly. Unless done with caution, will curdle. Cook only a moment until the raw egg becomes creamy. Mrs. Bonsall.FISH. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. Put one dozen freshly opened oysters in a saucepan with their juice; add half a pinch of salt and some pepper; parboil for three minutes. In another saucepan mix two ounces of good butter with one tablespoonful of flour; stir it on the fire until hot; add to the juice of oysters; let boil two minutes. Mix the yolks of three eggs in a half cup of sweet cream, and the juice of half a lemon. Pour it gradually in the saucepan, being careful not to boil it again. Mix the oysters with a little finely chopped parsley; pour the sauce over, stirring slightly, and serve very hot on triangular pieces of fried toast. Mrs. a. Haas. OYSTER RAREBIT. One pint oysters, three tablespoons butter, one cup oyster liquor, one-third cup bread crumbs, salt, paprika, mustard, cayenne, six slices buttered toast or zephyrettes, one saltspoon soda, one cup grated cheese. Drain oysters from liquor, wash and remove head, muscle, and mince them; mix with well- beaten eggs. Melt butter in double boiler and mix in cheese and seasoning. As these begin to soften add strained oyster liquor and bread crumbs and stir. Cook until thoroughly heated; now stir in eggs and oysters and stir constantly over boiling water until eggs thicken. Serve on toast or zephyrettes. Miss Kate K. Whitaker. San Francisco. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. Use individual dishes. Salt and pepper oysters; put first a layer of fine cracker crumbs and then oysters, bits of butter, and on top crackers and bits of butter. Moisten quite well with milk and bake brown half an hour in hot oven. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. FISH ROE. Put the roe in saucepan with onion size of a thimble, quarter teaspoon of minced parsley, cover with boiling water, slightly salted, let boil fifteen minutes, then put aside in the liquor until perfectly cold; wipe dry, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs. Fry in hot lard, using a little butter.36 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. BAKED SALMON (SPANISH). Three pounds of salmon, one can of tomatos, two tablespoon- fuls of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one large onion, three chiles, one teaspoonful salt. Brown the flour in the butter, add the onion, chiles, tomatos and salt; cook until tender; strain. Bake the salmon in a little water; when almost done lay over it lemon sliced and pour over the tomato sauce. Let it cook until tender. Mrs. Frank W. King. BOILED SALMON WITH STUFFED CUCUMBERS. Cover a middle cut of salmon with tepid water acidulated and salted; heat to boiling, simmer until flesh separates from the bone. Drain, surround with stufTed cucumbers. Fill open space with best part of lettuce. Serve with sauce a la tartare. Mrs. Hugh W. Vail. SALMON A LA MOLD. One small can of salmon, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls butter, half cupful fine bread crumbs; season with pepper, salt and minced parsley. Chop fish fine, being sure to remove all bones, melt the butter but not having it too hot, and rub it into the fish until smooth. Beat eggs well together, adding bread crumbs, mixing well. Season well with pepper, salt and parsley, then mix well with fish. Put in a buttered mold and steam one hour. Serve with drawn butter sauce poured around it. SALMON LOAF. Miss Maurice. A mold of salmon that is very good hot or cold is an appetizing variation from the ordinary canned salmon as a lunch or supper dish. Take out the contents of a pound can of salmon, remove all particles of bone and skin; beat two eggs lightly; add to the fish with one cupful of stale Dread crumbs; season with salt and pepper, one tablespoonful of lemon juice and one sprig of finely chopped parsley; pack in a well buttered mold and steam two hours. Mrs H. A. McCraney, Sacramento. SAUCE FOR SALMON LOAF. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour and pour on slowly one pint of hot water. Add one37 FISH. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoon of pepper, two scant table- spoonfuls of butter, beaten yolks of two eggs and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. It is better to add a little of the hot mixture to the eggs before combining the whole, to blend perfectly. Mrs. ADOLF Petsch. FRICASSEE OF SHRIMPS. Put a large spoonful of lard or butter in a saucepan, add a heaping spoonful of sifted flour; stir until a golden brown color, then add a little finely chopped onion, stirring constantly until the onion is thoroughly wilted. Put in a quart of shelled raw shrimps; continue to stir until the shrimps become of a pale pink color; then add three cloves, salt, red and black pep- per to taste; also a little Worcestershire sauce, and half a can of stewed tomatos which have been passed through a sieve. Let all this boil over a slow fire until ready to serve. Lastly, add a small glass of sherry. Crabs can be prepared the same way. Mrs. L. A. Grant. fillet OF SOLE, in cases. Put one teacupful of finely minced mushrooms into a frying pan with two tablespoonfuls of chopped shallots and one table- spoonful of chopped parsley; add a lump of butter and season with pepper and salt. Toss the above ingredients over the fire until cooked, then put them by until cold. Fillet the soles, mask one side of them with the above mixture, roll them up, secure them with a piece of thread, place them between two buttered plates and bake them. Prepare some white sauce. Put each fillet into a small paper case, place a small mushroom on the top of each, fill up the cases with the hot sauce, and serve them at once. Mrs. M. J. Connell. frtEd frogs' legs. Marinade them bv laying them in two tablespoons oil, two tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice, a little salt and pepper; let them lie three hours, then plunge them in fritter batter; fry in hot lard five minutes. Fritter Batter: Quarter pound of flour, yolk of one egg, one teaspoon of lemon juice, thirty drops of oil; beat well to- gether, then add just enough wine to make a batter. When ready to use, beat up the white of an egg, and add to mixture.CHAPTER IV. POULTRY AND QAME. broiled chicken. Cut in half small chickens. Butter, salt and pepper. Broil over live coals about twenty minutes. Serve with bits of parsley and thin slices of lemon. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. CHICKEN EN FRICASSEE (FRENCH). The real fricassee must be perfectly white; it will be if the following directions are exactly followed. The chicken must be left entire, well cleaned and tied compactly. Put in a large saucepan a lump of fresh butter; when it begins to melt mix in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and pour in enough hot water (but not boiling) so that it may cover half of the chicken, when it shall be put in. Mix the sauce well; when it boils put the chicken in and also its neck and head; a little laurel and lemon peel, all of which should be taken out before serving. After half an hour of slow boiling, the pan being kept well covered, turn the chicken and place around it a dozen small round onions and cook again until done. If the sauce is too thin, take out the chicken and onions and let the sauce reduce by boiling. Just before serving, stir the sauce slowly into a yellow of egg well beaten. The chicken will be white and excellent, and the sauce is to be poured over it. Mushrooms which have been boiled separately will improve the fricassee if placed in it a few minutes before it is done. / Marthe Durnerin. FRIED CHICKEN. Cut in pieces, wipe dry, dip in flour, fry (first rapidly then steam slowly, so as not to dry up) in lard. Take up chicken, add two tablespoons flour to grease, let it cook up and add one cup milk and half cup cream for gravy. Mrs. Jerry Conroy.39 poultry and game. CORN MEAL BALES FOR CHICKEN. One cup white meal scalded, salt to taste, one tablespoon sugar, quarter cup flour, two eggs, milk to thin so it will just drop off spoon in deep hot fat; brown and serve around fried chicken. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. Take four tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, put in a pot and let get very hot, then cut up one rooster and put in the oil with a little garlic and let it get very brown. Then throw away oil and iiut chicken into butter about size of two eggs with chopped parsley, onion and garlic. Boil two wine glasses of white wine and pour over chicken, a little pepper, salt and nutmeg, strain in three fresh tomatos, cover very tight and let boil slowly for one and a quarter hours. Garnish with fried eggs, half a can of mushrooms and fried toast around the dish. Miss Rose Newmark. CHICKEN A LA PACHECO. Mix meat from one boiled fowl cut into dice and a can of French mushrooms, contents quartered. Make a sauce of two tablespoons of butter, the same of flour and enough milk added to make one pint. Mix well with chicken ancj mushrooms. Pour into a baking dish and cover thickly with cracker crumbs and pieces of butter. Carrie T. Waddilove. CHICKEN PIE. Prepare your chicken as for stewed chicken for the table. Add some small bits of dough, make a rich gravy of milk, but- ter, salt, pepper and flour. Skim off all the fat after cooking the chicken. Prepare your crust as for pastry, line your pan if you like with crust, add a top crust and bake quickly. Mrs. Jaucii. CHICKEN PIE. Cut two chickens into pieces and boil with quarter pound salt pork, sliced thin, and four potatos, salt and pepper. Sim- mer two hours. Drain off liquid and to it add a pint of milk40 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. thickened with a little flour. Boil for a minute and pour over the chicken, which has been placed in a deep baking dish. Cover with parsley and bake very quickly. Mrs. George A. Sinsabaugh. ROAST CHICKEN. Singe and truss carefully. Broilers, as they are called, are better without stuffing, unless very large. Season with salt, put small bits of butter over meat and place in pan with a little water; baste occasionally and dredge with flour before taking from oven. A spring chicken cooked in any style is not to be despised, hut a well known epicure once said: “To roast spring chicken is to spoil it. Just split it down the back and broil it.” Mbs. George H. Wadleigh. FORCEMEAT FOR CHICKEN, VEAL, ETC. Three caps of stale bread crumbs, one cup of chopped suet, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, quarter lemon peel (grated), pepper, salt, a pinch of thyme, a very little milk. CHICKEN SOUFFLE. One pint of cooked chicken, one pint cream sauce, one table- spoon minced parsley, one teaspoon onion juice. When the , cream sauce is boiling add the meat, which has been minced fine and yolks of two eggs. Let stand until cold, add the beaten whites of the eggs; butter a baking dish, put in mixture which you put in a larger pan with a little boiling water ; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. Serve at once with a tomato sauce. SUPREME OF CHICKEN, TOULOUSE STYLE. Take three chickens, singe, draw and wipe; remove the skin from the breasts; make an incision on top of the breastbone from end to end and with a sharp knife carefully cut off the entire breast on each side, including the small wing bone, which must not be separated. Under each breast will be found a small fillet; carefully remove it and place on a dish for future use. With a sharp knife make an incision three inches in length by one inch in depth in each breast at the thinner end, season the insides with salt and pepper equally distributed and stuffpoultry and game. 41 them with two ounces of chicken forcemeat mixed with two truffles and four mushrooms also finely sliced. Butter a copper saute pan and lay in gently the six breasts. Take each small fillet and press it gently with the fingers to give it shape; then make six small slanting incisions on top of each and insert in these slices of truffle cut with a tube half an inch in diameter. Slightly moisten the top of every breast with water, carefully arrange one fillet on top of each lengthwise and sprinkle over a little clarified butter, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the supreme, a quarter of a wineglassful of Madeira wine and two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover with the lid and place it in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour one pint of hot Toulouse garnishing on a hot dish, take out the supreme from the oven, neatly arrange it over the garnish, adjust paper ruffles on each wing bone, and serve at once. Mrs. M. J. Connell. CHICKEN A LA TERRAPIN. Three pints of cold boiled chicken, three hard-boiled eggs, three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour that has been browned in the oven, half a point of chicken stock, one pint of good, rich milk, one wine glass of Madeira, one even teaspoon of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, one-half teaspoon of mace, one cup of butter. Mince the chicken fine, rub the eggs through a fine sieve, melt the butter in a large stewpan and add the flour; next add the stock and milk which has been scalded; the chicken in which all the seasoning has been mixed and eggs; cook slowly half an hour on the back of the stove. Just before serving, add the wine. Serve on brown toast. Suffi- cient for twenty-five persons. Mrs. M. T. Allen. WILD DUCKS. ' Four or five wild ducks, one onion chopped fine, three slices bacon cut fine, three cups of stale bread crumbs wet in a little milk, one teaspoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon salt, one dozen black olives cut in pieces, one egg. In preparing the ducks, wash and wipe well the inside, and rub with onion or garlic, according to taste. This will remove any fishy taste42 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. that the ducks may have. Fill them with the following dress- ing: Put the bacon in the frying pan with the chopped onion and fry until the onion becomes a light brown, then add the bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, parsley and olives. Heat this through, then stir in the egg. Fill the ducks and sew them up. Roast them in a hot oven for about twenty- five or thirty minutes, basting often, otherwise they will be dry and tasteless. Large Canvas-back and Mallards will re- quire a little longer to cook. Serve with a sauce made as fol- lows : One tablespoon butter, one-half tablespoon flour, one cup of stock, one wineglass of claret, one cup of water, ten or twelve black olives cut fine, one-half clove or garlic. Small bunch of parsley, a little thyme and bay leaf. Cook the olives in b.oiling water for fifteen or twenty minutes. Remove the pits and cut the meat in small pieces. Rub butter and flour together in frying pan. When melted, add stock, water and wine. Tie the garlic and herbs together. Put these in the sauce and cook slowly for half an hour or more. Re- move the garlic and herbs, add the olives, and cook a little longer. Adding a little of the drippings from the duck makes the sauce richer. If olives have been used in the dressing, they may be omitted in the sauce, and vice versa. Mrs. Eugene O. McLaughlin. FRIED TEAL. Split the ducks down their back, spread open and rub with onion, or garlic. Fry in butter or with bacon. Make a sauce with the grease the ducks have been fried in, and add a little flour and water or stock. Mrs. Eugene O. McLaughlin. ROAST GOOSE. The goose is best in the autumn and early part of winter—• never good in spring. What is called a green goose is four months old. It is insipid after that, though tender. Pick well and singe the goose, then clean carefully. Put the liver and gizzard on to cook as a turkey’s. When the goose is washed, and ready for stuffing, have boiled three white potatos, skin and mash them; chop three onions very fine, throw them into43 poultry and game cold water; stir into the potatos a spoonful of butter, a little salt and black pepper, a tablespoonful of finely-rubbed sage leaves; drain off the onions and mix with the potato, sage, etc. When well mixed, stuff the goose with the mixture. Have ready a coarse needle and thread, and sew up the slit made for cleaning and introducing the stuffing. A full-grown goose requires one and three-quarters hours. Roast it as a turkey, dredging and basting. The gravy is prepared as for poultry, with the liver and gizzard. Apple sauce is indispensable for roast goose. Mrs. George H. Wadleigii. larded fillets of i-iare. Skin and clean a hare, cut off the fillets; lard and put them in a basin, season with ground mixed spice, pour over enough oil to moisten; let them soak for one hour. In the meantime pour some stock in a stew-pan and reduce nearly to glaze, then add slice of bacon and the larded fillets, cover with a piece of buttered paper and cook for twelve minutes, by which time the fillets should be well cooked and brown. Great care should be taken not to let the fillets burn. Put them on a dish, add a little rich stock, stir well, pour it over and serve. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. .tugged hare (English). Wash the hare, cut in pieces, dredge with flour and fry in butter. Have ready one and one-half pints of good stock thickened with a little flour; add the pieces of fried hare, an onion stuck with six cloves, a lemon (peeled and cut in half), and a good seasoning of pepper, salt and cayenne. Cover well and let stew gently for two hours. When nearly done, pour in one-half pint of port wine, and add a few forcemeat balls, fried or baked in the oven a few minutes before they are put in the gravy. Serve with red currant jelly. f. s. c. ROAST BELGIAN HARE. Clean the hare thoroughly and soak in salted water for a few hours. Parboil the liver and heart and add a slice of raw fat salt pork, and chop all together very fine; mix with this enough seasoned bread crumbs to make a good stuffing forLANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Mrs. J. G. Mossjn. the hare, and after stuffing sew or skewer it up. Rub with butter and sprinkle with seasoned flour. Baste often and cook in a hot oven for one hour. Serve with currant jelly. Mrs. C. E. Thom, Santa Monica. forcemeat for i-iare. 1 wo ounces of ham or lean bacon, one-fourth pound of suet, rind of half a lemon, one teaspoonful of minced parsley, one tablespoonful minced sweet herbs, salt, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, six ounces of bread crumbs, two eggs ; shred the ham or bacon, chop the suet, lemon peel and herbs, add season- ing and blend all thoroughly together with the bread crumbs be- fore wetting. Work in the eggs (well beaten) with the other in- gredients. Make into balls. Fry in boiling lard, or put them on a tin and bake in the oven. In forcemeat for hare the liver is sometimes used. Boil for five minutes, mince very fine and add to the other ingredients. ROASTED PARTRIDGES. Pluck the partridges, draw and truss them, and fasten some thin slices of fat bacon around them, and roast for fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Five minutes before dishing take the bacon off, sprinkle a little salt over the birds, and brown them. Put the partridges on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. Mrs. M. J. Connell. PIGEONS. From six pigeons take the hearts and livers, put in a cup; use enough lean fresh pork and calves’ liver to make a cup of the meat; put through the grinder. Add a slice of bread cut in dice and browned in butter, about a teaspoon of grated onion, one-fourth cup of currants, one sour apple grated, two eggs, half teaspoon of salt, quarter teaspoon of pepper, quar- ter teaspoon o£ paprika, quarter teaspoon kitchen bouquet, same of minced parsley. After dressing them, tie down wings and legs, put two tablespoons of butter in a frying pan, when hot lay the pigeon in to brown, then add half cup of soup stock; put them on back of range to simmer three-quarters of an hour. Melt half cup jelly to add to the gravy, with a little flour.POULTRY AND GAME. 45 Mrs. J. G. Mossin. POTTED PIGEONS. Stuff, salt, season with salt and pepper, roll in flour, brown in salt pork fat, put in stew-pan and cover with brown gravy, cook till tender. Brown two tablespoons of butter, add two tablespoons of flour, brown, pour on one pint hot water, cover the pigeons; add half spoon Worcestershire sauce. Mrs. Ozro W. Childs. BROILED QUAILS. Singe and draw the quails, split them lengthwise down the back and wipe them with a damp cloth. Season with salt and pepper, rub them well in warm butter and dredge with flour. Place the birds on a gridiron over a clear fire and broil for ten minutes. Cut some thick slices of bread, remove the crusts, toast and butter them and lav them on a hot dish. Place a quail when cooked on each side, garnish with parsley and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. SMOTHERED QUAILS. Split quail up back, rub all over with flour, salt and pep- per, enough water to keep from burning. Butter entire bird, let bake in covered pan half hour. Make gravy of what is in pan bv adding a little flour. Serve each bird on toast with gravy poured over it. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. JUGGED RABBIT. Clean a rabbit, disjoint it, cut the body in four pieces, cut one-half pound of salt pork in small pieces, put them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter and toss it over the fire until the butter has melted; then put in the pieces of rabbit and fry until lightly browned. Sprinkle on one tablespoon of flour, pour in half pint each of claret and of broth, add eight small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, two or three cloves, and place the stew-pan over the fire until it boils; then move to one side and allow to simmer gently until ten- der. When cooked, place the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, ai range the onions around them, strain the cooking liquor through a hair sieve and serve.46 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK COOK. SQUABS EN CASSEROLE. Clean and truss five or six squabs, saute in bacon fat, with half an onion cut in rings; arrange in the casserole; add a bay leaf, and half cover with hot water or broth; cover and bake until nearly tender; then season with salt and pepper, and just before serving skim off the fat and add one pint of cooked peas. Miss Marianne T. Etchemendy. ROASTED TURKEY. Make a dressing as follows: Chop half onion fine, let cook slightly in frying pan. Soak sufficient bread in oyster juice until soft, salt, pepper and a pinch of sage; cook slightly in onion pan; take off fire, add one can oysters and two eggs beaten light. Stuff the turkey and bake slowly for 3 hours. Gravy is made from the drippings in pan and liver and giz- zard chopped fine. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. ROASTED TURKEY. For a turkey weighing from eight to ten pounds, allow one loaf of stale baker’s bread, one quart or one can of raw oysters, one lemon, two roots of celery and one-quarter of a pound of butter. It is taken for granted that the turkey is thoroughly picked, singed, cleaned and wiped dry before putting the stuff- ing in. Crumb the bread till very fine; season with pepper and salt. Drain the oysters, setting the liquor aside. Now take a very sharp knife and peel off the outer rind of the lemon, being careful not to have any of the bitter and tough white skin left on; cut the peel in very small bits; chop the white part of the celery very fine, adding the butter and the juice of the lemon; mix the ingredients mentioned, stirring until thoroughly mixed; then proceed to stuff body and crop. A turkey of the size spoken of requires two and a half to four hours’ baking, and it should be basted frequently; the liquor of the oysters should be put in the pan when the pan is first set in the oven, and this is to be used in basting. The gib- lets and liver should be cooked in a basin on top of the stove, then chopped very fine, and when the gravy is made add them to it. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh.POULTRY AND GAME. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. 47 DRESSING FOR TURKEY. Two cups of breadcrumbs or one of cracker and one of bread, one teaspoonful of salt, one of sage, one egg, one ta- blespoonful of butter, milk to make it quite moist, sage to taste—two teaspoonfuls of sage; sweet marjoram, summer sa- vory to suit. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh. TRUFFLE AND CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR POULTRY AND GAME. Remove the outer skin of a quart of chestnuts, put them in a saucepan with a bay leaf, a lump of salt, plenty of corian- der seeds; cover them with water, boil until tender and drain the chestnuts, peel off the inner skin; allow half pound fat bacon, quarter pound truffles cut up in small pieces, season with pepper, spices; add a little thyme and marjoram; it is ready for use.CHAPTER V. MEATS. HINTS TOR CHOOSING MEAT. Good beef should be of bright red color in the lean parts, and white in the fatty portions. Healthy mutton is of a clear, dark red color in the lean, clear, white fat, and a great deal of it. Mutton' is very nutri- tious and easily digested. Eamb is juicier than mutton, but of much the same color. The bones will be red and the fat hard and white. Young pork should be white, firm and dry. Good veal will have white, firm fat and the lean a pinkish tinge. It should never be blue. Choose your chickens by seeing that the breast bone yields to tbe touch, that the scales of the legs are smooth and the comb red. Select a goose with clean, white skin, plump breast, and yellow feet. If the feet are red, the bird is old. A young turkey should have legs black and smooth, the spurs short, and feet limber. GENERAL DIRECTIONS TOR COOKING MEATS. The great point in cooking meats is to have them tender without wasting the juices. In boiling, allow from eighteen to twenty minutes for every pound of meat. Boil slowly in as little water as possible; tbe meat will be more savory and ten- der. Put fresh meat in hot, salted meat in cold, water. Never let meat stand in the water after it is done. Strain off all scum rising. The sirloin is best for roasting. The round is best for boiling. The juice which flows from the meat is the best gravy; season, and if too thin, sift in a little flour. If too greasy, skim. Mrs. Bonsall. Roasting.—Have a brisk oven, rub a very little flour over the joint, but neither salt nor pepper. Salt draws out the juices, which it is your object to keep in, and parching in-meats. 49 jures the flavor of pepper. This applies also to broiling and frying. Pepper after an article is cooked. Carefully turn your roast once, that it may be browned on both sides. Broiling—A brisk, clear fire-is indispensable to this mode of cooking. Let the gridiron come to a gradual heat that it may not be burning hot on the surface. Rub the bars with a bit of clean suet and lay on your steak or chops, which should not be more than three-quarters of an inch in thickness. If too thick it will be overdone on the outside while inside it is still raw. Turn it but once while broiling, and when it is a delicate brown outside with a rare line inside it is finished. Lay it on a well heated platter and dress with butter and a little salt. If you have allowed your fire to get too low, do not attempt to use the gridiron, but feed your fire anew, and if you cannot wait for it to burn low again, broil in a frying pan, following the same directions. The essential point in broiling is to have the pan so hot that it will sear the surface of the meat at once, and thus prevent the escape of its juices. Frying.—Professional cooks agree that the perfection of frying-fat is equal parts lard and beef drippings, and yet there are families where the drippings are never looked after, and all the rich fat from roast beef, pork, corn beef, and soup- bones goes to waste. Batter for Frying.—Three cups of sifted flour, mixed with three tablespoons of butter melted in water; pour the butter off the water into the flour first, then enough of the water to make a soft paste, which beat smooth, then more warm water till it is thick enough to mask the back of the spoon dipped into it, and salt to taste; add, the last thing, the whites of two eggs well beaten. Bread Crumbs for Frying.—Never allow stale bread to go to waste. Dry it thoroughly in a slow oven, roll and sift it and keep in a jar ready for use. It is better than cracker crumbs for cutlets, etc., and costs nothing. ROAST BEkE. A sirloin or rib roast is best. Have the bones removed. Roll the meat and fasten in shape with skewers or tie with strong string. 1 lace on a rack in a dripping pan and put inlandmarks club cook book. a very hot oven to sear it over in order to retain the juices. Keep the oven closed for about ten minutes, then open, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, and baste with the gravy. Turn the meat when necessary and baste often. Bake a six-pound roast one hour if liked rare, and an hour and a quarter if liked well done. Serve with gravy made from the drippings of the meat, or with Yorkshire pudding. . A. C. B. “ How We Cook in Los Ang-eles.” ENGLISH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. One pint of milk, four tablespoons of flout mixed in part of the milk to a smooth batter; then add the remainder, with a little salt and two well beaten eggs; bake in a well-buttered pan thirty minutes, or in the pan with the roast, placing the roast on a drip stand. Mrs. J. S. Slauson. . BEEF A LA MODE. Round of beef, eight pounds; have larded at butcher’s, bind with piece of muslin to keep in place. Have ready table- spoonful cloves, allspice and cinnamon, salt and pepper. Take seven carots, five turnips, boil slightly, cut in strips, drop in spices and put in places where larded a few pieces of garlic. Put in covered baking pan, sprinkle with flour, half pint of water in the pan; bake slowly three hours. Chop carrots and bits of pork fine, put on top, add in pan whole carrots, onions and turnips, and cook one hour more. Last half hour baste with sherry. Gravy: One turnip, one carrot, half pint water; let boil and thicken slightly; add half pint sherry just before serving. Put meat on platter, the bits of fat and carrots browned, on top, the whole vegetables on top. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. BCEUF A LA MODE. With strips of cloth bind six or eight pounds of beef from the round into circular shape. Make incisions with a sharp knife, and into these press strips of salt pork half an inch thick; make other incisions and press into these one small clove of garlic cut into pieces. Heat drippings, and in this brown the outside of the meat, together with one small onion and a carrot sliced ; then half cover with boiling water and51 MEATS. let simmer until tender. Garnish' with boiled onions, sea- soned, basted with butter and browned in a hot oven. Skim the fat from the liquid in which the meat was cooked, thicken the latter with flour and water, strain and serve as a sauce with the meat. Mrs. M. T. Etchemendy. BCEUE A LA MODE (FRENCH). The piece chosen must be well beaten and a few incisions made in it, where thin pieces of salt pork are introduced. Melt some thin slices of salt pork over a rather brisk fire, and place the meat in it, turning it until it is brown on both sides. Do the same with some onions and carrots. Then lower the fire till it is very small, and pour in with the meat a glass of tepid water and half a glass of white wine; add a little sugar (about a teaspoonful), some pepper and cloves. Let it cook- ery slowly, keeping the pan tightly closed, for about six hours. This is excellent, either warm or cold. Marthe Durnerin. FILLETS DE BCEtTF AUX CHAMPIGNONS. Cut the meat in slices, not too thin. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and allow to smother in melted butter for about an hour over a very slow fire. Then increase the heat until the meat has browned. Remove the meat from the pan and add one tablespoonful of flour mixed with some bouillon ; add the mushrooms which have been cleaned and peeled. Replace the meat and cook until the mushrooms are done. Serve with lemon juice. Pour the thick sauce over the fillets and place the mushrooms around. One may add a little Madeira wine to the sauce while cooking. The fillets may be served with- out the mushrooms, but with a tomato sauce. Mrs. Eugene O. McLaughlin. BEEF OMELET LOAF. Three pounds of beef chopped fine, three eggs well beaten, six crackers rolled fine, one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon pepper, sage to taste. Mix well and form into a loaf. Put a little water and bit of butter with the pan. Turn a pan over the top and bake an hour and a quarter, basting occasionally. Mrs. John H. Norton.52 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. BEEF SAUTE. Heat some thick slices of tender boiled beef in melted but- ter. Keep the dish covered. When very hot, pour over a tablespoonful each of mushroom catsup and Worcestershire sauce. Serve hot on potatos. Mrs. Stephen M. White. GATEAU OF BEEF. One pound of cold roast beef, three cups of stale bread, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two eggs, two tablespoonful of salt, quarter teaspoonful of pepper, half cup of stock or milk, one onion (grated) ; chop up meat quite fine, soak bread in a little cold water, squeeze out as dry as possible and add to the chopped meat; then add parsley and the seasoning. Beat up the eggs and mix them with the stock or milk. Grease some cups or a bowl, almost two-thirds full; cover with greased paper and steam in one mold one and one-half hours; if in cups, three-quarters of an hour. Set cups in boiling water half way up. Take out when done. Serve with tomato sauce. Kate E. Whitaker. beefsteak PIE. Two pounds of round steak (very thin), six sheeps’ kid- neys, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half teaspoonful of pepper, quarter cup of water; cut up meat in oblong pieces, kidney in small pieces. Wash kidneys, mix flour, pepper and salt together, dip pieces of beef into it, roll up a piece of kidney in each piece of beef; fill up your dish; put in quarter cup of water, cover with paste (first putting a narrow strip round edge of dish) ; bake about one and one-half hours. Stew the bones, etc., and when the pie is done, pour the hot Stock into the pie through the hole in center. South Kensington School of Cookery. BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS—A ^SMOTHERED VENUS.” Cut one dozen white onions into slices; fry a quarter pound salt pork or bacon until all the fat is fried out. Remove the cracklings, and into the hot fat put the onions, fiy and stii for twenty minutes over a brisk fire, then add a teaspoonful of salt, pepper to taste, and a cup of boiling water. Place over a moderate fire to simmer half an hour, when the water shouldMEATS. 53 have entirely evaporated and the onions be a nice even brown. Have ready a boiled steak, place it in the pan with the onions, cover the top with some of them and place in the oven for five minutes, then place the steak in a hot dish and heap the onions over and around it and serve. Carrie T. Waddilove. SOUR POT ROAST (GERMAN). A three or four pound pot roast larded, put in an earthen vessel and cover with vinegar and water to taste (one cup strong vinegar and two of water is good). Slice in an onion, two or three bay leaves, two or three cloves and some whole peppers. Soak three days, turning once or twice a day. Put in kettle two tablespoons drippings and brown the beef well all over, and then pour in the vinegar, water, etc., and let boil two and one-half hours. Take out meat, thicken gravy and serve. Mrs. Koepfli. PEEP TONGUE, terrapin styee. Put a salted beef tongue into a pan of cold water, bring to a boil at once, then let simmer until tender—usually three hours. Remove it, drain, cut in halves lengthwise, trim off all fat and bristle, stick a few cloves in, put pieces into another saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add onion cut in slices, a little mace and browned flour ; boil for a few min- utes, and put in three finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs; re- move the pan from the fire, pour in one wineglassful of sherry, turn the whole out on a dish and serve very hot, with a gar- nish of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. TAGEIARINI, ITALIAN STYLE. Take flour, put it on a good-sized kitchen table, make a nest of it. Into this flour nest break four eggs, add a pinch of salt and half a cup of luke-warm water and flour enough to make a stiff dough, work dough for fully twenty minutes, roll out very thin, same as rolling out pie crust, dredge with flour now and then to keep from sticking. Ret it remain on table to dry for about an hour, then roll it up in a tight scroll like a sheet of music. With a good sharp knife begin at the end and slice it into strips as thin as possible. While54 LANDMAKKS CLUB COOK BOOK. you aie cutting-, take care to remove and spread now and then what you have cut, not forgetting to sprinkle flour so as to prevent them from sticking. You now have the tagliarini or noodles, as some prefer to call them; the next thing to make is the gravy or sauce. Take a good roast pot, put a little but- ter and good olive oil or lard (the former is preferred), let it get good and hot, put into pot pieces of roast beef, let it brown well, then add half a cup of white wine; let it cook a while, then add a well chopped onion, a slice of garlic, half a cup of chopped dried mushrooms. Care must be taken that the mushrooms are first soaked in hot water for about fifteen minutes and well washed. Add a couple of tomatos well chopped, some salt and pepper and let it cook slowly for a couple of hours at least; keep adding to sauce a little broth now and then, either the chicken or beef. Your sauce is now made and you are ready for the cooking of the noodles. Take a good-sized soup pot, fill one-half full with boiling water, add a pinch of salt ; when boiling, drop your noodles, little at a time, and stir carefully; let them boil say five minutes; do not let them boil any longer, as they will go to pieces. Take out, strain and put into a good-sized flat dish; then add some of the gravy and some grated Parmesan cheese; add another layer of noodles and repeat with layer of gravy and cheese. Louise Guasti. calf's HEAD. One shaved calf’s head, two turnips, two carrots, two onions, two green peppers, one leek, if obtainable, a few uthole allspice berries, pepper-corns and cloves. For the Sauce—Half dozen tomatos, or half can of to- matos, one heaping tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of cornstarch, one and one-half dozen white button onions, one and one-half dozen olives, one can French mushrooms, three or four tablespoons cooking sherry, or any white wine. Parsley or water cress for garnish. Procure what is termed a “shaved calf’s head.” Have the butcher saw the head in two lengthwise. With a sharp, pointed knife remove the skin and flesh from the bone. Put the brains and tongue in fresh water to draw out the blood. Soak the skin and flesh in fresh water for an hour or moreMEATS. 55 and then plunge them into boiling water for not more than three minutes. In that time the skin should have swelled to nearly twice its original thickness. Cut the skin into pieces suitable for serving. Have ready an agate iron kettle with tightly fitting top. Place in the kettle the pieces of skin and flesh, the tongue, two each medium-sized turnips, carrots and onions, all peeled and cut in two, one leek, if obtainable, be- ing sure to cut off the green tops, and two green peppers, from which the seeds have been removed. Add three or four each whole peppercorns, allspice berries and cloves. Do not put in any parsley, or herbs of any kind, as these turn the meat dark. Moisten a heaping tablespoonful of flour, work- ing out all the lumps, until thin enough to pour; stir into water enough to just cover the meat and vegetables. Pour into the kettle and cover tightly. An excellent way to keep in all the steam is to put two thicknesses of light brown wrap- ping paper under the cover, doubling in the edges just under the cover and placing a weight on top. Move to the back of the stove before the water boils and let simmer for three hours. The brains may or may not be used, according to taste. If they are to be used, clean them in the usual way, by removing the membrane which envelops them, and putting them in three or four changes of fresh water to remove the blood. Three- quarters of an hour before serving the calf’s head, put the brains into the kettle. This is ample time to cook them. Skin the tongue and arrange slices of it, with the meat, on a large platter and pour over the whole a sauce made as follows: Stew slowly, for an hour or more, or until they have stewed down to an even consistency, six medium-sized tomatos or one-half can of tomatos. Melt a generous tablespoonful of butter, and mix into it a tablespoonful of cornstarch. Stir into the tomatos, cook a few minutes, and strain through a colander. Return to the fire and add about one and one-half dozen white button onions, which have been boiled tender, one and one-half dozen olives, which have been freed from the seed. If the olives are “free-stones,” the seeds can be easily pressed out through the stem end. Otherwise the olive must be cut from the seed in a thick spiral, with a sharp, thin-bladed knife.56 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Diain the liquor from a can of French mushrooms and add pepper, and lastly add*three or four tablespoonfuls of cooking sherry, or any white wine preferred. Pour over the meat in the platter and garnish with parsley arid watercress. This sauce should be rather thick and very smooth. It may be made before it is needed and warmed over just before serv- ing. I his receipt makes a dish for twelve people, and can easily be halved, as the dealers will sell the half of a calf’s head. Mrs. F. W. Wood. call’s IiLAD. Calf’s head, water, little salt, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, teaspoonful of lemon juice. After the head has been thoroughly cleaned, lay it in cold water for half an hour to bleach; remove the brains first, and lay them to soak in warm water for an hour. Put the head in a stew-pan large enough to hold it with sufficient cold water to cover it, and when it boils add a little salt; take off every particle of scum as it rises, and boil until tender, about one and a half to two hours, according to size. Boil brains, chop them with melted but- ter, parsley, pepper and salt and lemon juice in above propor- tions ; take up the head, skin the tongue, and put it on a small dish with the brains around it, have ready some minced pars- ley and melted butter, smother the head with it or make a white sauce with a tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of but- ter, half a pint of milk and salt to taste, mix butter and flour smoothly together over the fire, pour in the milk, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; let it boil up quickly for a minute or two, then pour it over the calf’s head with some minced parsley. Mrs. Henry Worthington. LSCABECHI. Soak a dried smoked tongue over night; boil until tender, and skin; when cold, slice not too thin. Slice and soak in boil- ing water two large onions for several hours. Take a flat- bottomed dish, put a layer of tongue, then a layer of the onion, then a layer of black olives, then sprinkle over a little thyme, then another layer of tongue, onion, olives, until all themeats. 57 tongue is used. Then take half a cup of vinegar and half a cup of olive oil and pour over, cover tightly and let it set over night. Fresh tongue may be used, but the dried is much nicer. Mrs. Jambs C. Kays. STUEEED HAM. Boil ham, take off skin while hot, pour over it half cup vin- egar, then take two cups chopped meat or chicken, half cup chicken broth to bind, one cup cracker crumbs, salt and pep- per to taste. Then take a long skewer, make holes about one inch apart, put filling in holes. Make a paste of one cup brown sugar, half cup flour, cream enough to make soft paste, rub all over ham. Bake brown, baste with one pint sherry. When cold, slice thin and serve. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. HOW TO BOII, AN OLD VIRGINIA HAM. First weigh the ham, then scrub thoroughly with a stiff brush in luke-warm water, being careful to remove every par- ticle of mold. Cover it with cold water, add one pint of vin- egar and a tablespoon of herbs. Let it simmer slowly, keep- ing it on the fire, allowing half hour for every pound in weight of the ham. Take it from the fire and let it remain in the water until nearly cold, then peel off the skin and either sprinkle brown sugar and rolled cracker crumbs over the top or cover with a paste made with one teaspoonful of brown flour and half cup brown sugar, moistened with a little port wine. Then put it in the oven and brown nicely. Dress the knuckle with a white paper ruffle. Sauces to Serve with Ham—Serve with brown sauce, flavored with half glass of champagne. To serve cold boiled ham, cut in thin slices, season highly with cayenne pepper or with mustard and lemon juice, and boil two minutes. Melt half glass currant jelly, add a tea- spoonful of butter and a little pepper, and when hot, add sev- eral small slices of ham. Let it boil up and serve at once. For herbs, use one tablespoonful herbs, consisting in part of thyme, summer savory, sweet marjoram; also use one stalk celery, one sprig parsley. Mrs. L. W. Blinn.LANDMARKS club cook hook. LAMB CUTLETS broiled. Cut some cutlets of a neck of lamb and trim them as for mutton cutlets, beat the yolks of two eggs with a little warmed butter, dip in the cutlets, then in bread crumbs, and then put them on a gridiron over a clear fire; and when they are done on one side turn them, arrange on a dish and serve with gravy. Mrs. M. J. Connell. saddle of lamb roasted. Wash, salt and flour the meat, and put it in a baking pan in a hot oven to roast, basting often until done. Place it on a hot dish and serve it with mint sauce. Mrs. M. J. Connell. BOILED MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. Put the meat in a pot with plenty of water, salted; cook twelve minutes to a pound, then take out and wipe carefully with a hot wet cloth ; butter all over and serve with sauce. Caper sauce is made by adding capers to drawn butter sauce. MUTTON CUTLETS. Trim them well, scraping the bones, roll in a little melted butter or oil, season and broil them. Or they are nice rolled in egg or bread crumbs and fried or broiled. Serve them round a bed of mashed potatos, or with tomato sauce. They are very nice with almost any kind of vegetable, such as peas or string beans in the center of the dish with the cutlets in a circle around. Mrs. Stephen M. White. pigs' FEET. A nice breakfast or luncheon dish. Cook fresh pigs’ feet until very tender. When cold, cut lengthwise, dip in batter and fry in hot lard or drippings, and serve very hot. Mrs. James C. Kays. STUFFED PIG. Take dressing the same as for turkey, except oysters. Chest- nuts may be used instead of oysters if cared for. I prefer plain. Bake slowly, and when done, put on large platter with a lemon in mouth. Mrs. Jerky Conroy.59 MKATS. COUNTRY SAUSAGES. Prepare a sausage forcemeat and divide it into small por- tions, flour the hands and roll it into balls. Put some butter in a frying pan, and when it is hot, fry the balls, a few at a time, adding more butter when required. Turn them constantly, and when equally browned drain them, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. BOILED TONGUE WITH chestnut DRESSING. Place a pickled tongue in a bowl of water to soak, then put in a saucepan with water to cover and boil two hours; take it out, remove the skin; cover the bottom of a saucepan with a carrot, small turnip, one and one-half onion and thyme or marjoram to taste; place the tongue on top and pour in enough broth and white wine to moisten to half its height; cover with paper, place on a slow fire, cook until the tongue is tender, turn- ing occasionally to glaze both sides ; have ready a puree of chest- nuts, moderately thick, spread it on a dish and place the tongue on it; add a little more broth to the liquor in the saucepan, boil well, skim and strain in another saucepan, reduce it to half glaze, pour over the tongue and serve. The chestnuts must be boiled after being peeled and blanched, put through ricer with seasoning of salt, pepper, little butter, some of the liquor of the tongue. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. MOCK TERRAPIN. Select a calf’s head with care—not too young. Have thor- oughly cleaned by butcher. Then have the cook again wash and wipe dry with a coarse cloth. Place in an iron pot and in cold water with a very little salt. Boil gently until the meat is tender enough to pierce easily with a fork. It must be very well done. Remove them from the fire, place the pot where it is cool, and let the calf’s head remain in the liquor until the next morning. Take out then and boil down the liquor to one-half pint. Then cut the meat up carefully, with a knife, in small pieces. Place again over the fire, add two or three tablespoons of the liquor, a half cup of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, pepper 560 landmarks club cook book. and salt to taste. A hock glass of sherry wine (as you re- move from the stove) and the yolks of as many hard-boiled eggs as you like, minced fine. Pour into a large earthen ves- sel, let stand until the next day. Then one hour before serv- ing'- put over the fire, add a little more cream and sherry to taste. Send to the table very hot, and serve with “bits” of dry toast. Mrs. W. A. Elderkin. VEAL BIRDS. Slice of veal from the loin, cut very thin. Remove bones, skin and fat and pound till one-fourth of an inch thick. Trim into pieces two and a half by four inches. Chop the trim- mings fine with one square inch of fat salt pork (not smoked) for each bird; add half as much fine cracker crumbs as you have meat; season highly with salt, pepper, lemon, cayenne and onion ; moisten one egg and a little hot water as for veal loaf. Spread the mixture on each slice nearly to the edge; roll up tightly, and tie or fasten with skewers. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Fry them slowly in hot butter till a golden brown, but not dark or burned. Then half cover with cream and simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Remove the strings and serve on toast; pour the cream over them; gar- nish with points of toast and lemon. This is easily cooked in a chafing dish, or is especially nice as a meat course for luncheon. * Mrs. Mathew T. Allen. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Two pounds veal cutlets, half pound of boiled ham, two tablespoonfuls of minced or dried herbs, two blades of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, half pint of water, nearly half pint of good, strong gravy. Pie crust. Cut the veal into nice square pieces, put a layer into bot- tom of pie dish, sprinkle over these a portion of the herbs, spices, seasoning and the yolks of eggs cut in slices; cut ham very thin and put layer of this in. Proceed in this manner until dish is full, so arranging that ham comes on top. Lay paste on edge of dish, pour in water, cover with crust, leav-61 MEATS. ing opening in top, brush over with yolk of egg (uncooked), bake in well-heated oven for one to one and one-half hours or longer should the pie be very large. When it is taken out of oven, pour in at opening on top through a funnel nearly half a pint of strong gravy. * This pie may be enriched by adding a few mushrooms, oysters or sweetbreads; for those who like it a little sherry may be added to the gravy. Kidneys and round steak also make a good pie; care must be taken to remove all fat and string from the kidneys. Cut in slices, cook in boiling water for five minutes, pour off wa- ter, recover with boiling water and cook five minutes longer. Cut steak as directed for cutlets, and arrange in pie dish as for veal and ham pie. A little onion juice is a great improve- ment to kidneys. Mrs. Henry Worthington. VEAL OLIVE PIE. Two pounds veal, without bone, rind of quarter lemon, quarter pound lean ham, one tablespoon parsley, one cup bread crumbs, two teaspoons salt, one teaspoon butter, quarter tea- spoon white pepper, two eggs, one salt spoon paprika, quarter cup cold water, some short paste. Cut up veal in very thin slices and then into oblong slices, three inches by one and one- half. Chop up the ham very fine, also the parsley; mix with them the bread crumbs, the butter melted, the eggs well beaten, and half the pepper, salt and paprika. Spread this over the pieces of veal and roll them up. Fill up a deep pie dish with the rolls; let it be higher in the middle than the sides. Sprinkle the rest of the seasoning over and put in the quarter cup of water. Roll out a piece of rich, short crust, one inch larger every way than the top of your pie dish; cut off an inch breadth all round, wet the edge of your dish and press on the paste, joining it neatly; wet this edge and put on the cover. Trim it round with a sharp knife. Scallop the edges of your pastry and make a hole to let out steam in the top. Brush over with well-beaten egg, ornament with pastry cut into leaves, etc. Bake in a hot oven for ten minutes, then moderate heat and bake altogether about one and one-quarter hours. Fill up pie with boiling water or stock before serving. Miss Kate E. Whitaker.Mks. J. O. Korpfli. t! LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. STEWED VEAL (german). Two or three pounds of lean veal cut in pieces ready to serve. Put two tablespoons of drippings in kettle and get very hot; put in veal, season with pepper, salt, bay leaf and trifle nut- meg, and let brown all over. Then slice in one good-sized onion and let brown. Cover with boiling water and stew for about an hour, just keeping enough water to make a nice gravy. Then put in two or three tablespoons sherry (or some white wine) and thicken with tablespoon flour in a little water. Let boil a few minutes and serve.CHAPTER VI. SALADS. APPLE AND’ CELERY SALAD. Prepare beforehand a good mayonnaise, seasoned well, and do not forget a pinch of cayenne. Peel tart crisp apples, one at a time, cutting in slices, and these in turn into dice, mixing and covering at once with the mayonnaise, a slice at a time to keep from turning dark. The celery should be one-half the amount of the apple; very crisp and white, and cut into bits, about one-half by one-quarter of an inch long. Mix the apple and celery in turn, and when altogether, put in a bowl with white lettuce leaves. If a richer salad is desired, English walnuts, blanched and broken in small bits, may be added, about one-quarter as much as the apple being used. 2. Beets may be used with celery instead of apple, and this makes a delicious salad, too. Cauliflower, a fine head, boiled whole and salted, and when tender allowed to cool and drain, makes a good salad served with mayonnaise poured over the whole, and garnished with small hearts of lettuce, and bits of boiled beets. Mrs. Williamson Dunn. BRUSSELS SPROUT SALAD. Throw a quart of Brussels sprouts into boiling water, after removing the dead leaves and cutting the little brown knots from the stems. Boil briskly or they will change their color; twelve minutes will cook them. Throw them into a colander to drain. While hot, pour over a French dressing. Surround with lettuce leaves. Set in ice-box an hour before serving. Two ounces of cold boiled tongue cut in neat pieces is an addi- tion to this salad. Canned sprouts can be used when fresh ones are not in the market. Miss Macdonald.64 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. cabbage: salad. Take very tender, fresh cabbage, slice very thin, and dress at the table with salt, oil, and red pepper. This sounds plain, but it is very appetizing. M. R. P. % CELERY AND APPLE SALAD. Cut tender, white celery into small dice, cut the heart, leaves and all. Season well with salt and pepper. Then cut into very small, thin slices, tender, tart apples, an equal quantity mix together, and add mayonnaise dressing till it is of good consistency. Serve on lettuce leaf or garnish with celery leaves, or with the pink seeds of pomegranates. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh. CELERY ROOT SALAD. One bunch celery root (three small or two large in a bunch). Boil until you can stick a fork into them, peel and remove the centers. One head of celery, two hard-boiled eggs; chop them all and mix with the following mayonnaise dressing: Yolk of one egg, one-quarter teaspoonful of mustard wet with a little water, one-half pint olive oil, one-half tablespoonful vinegar, the juice of a half of a lemon, salt. Stir into the yolk of the egg the mustard, then add the oil, drop by drop, stirring all the time, then the vinegar and lemon juice, and last the salt. More salt will be required after mixing all together, as this salad takes more salt than others. This makes a suffi- cient quantity for six or seven persons. CHESTNUT SALAD. Boil enough chestnuts to allow four or five for each person, slice, and add finely sliced celery, cut up olives, a little vinegar and salt, mix with mayonnaise, and garnish as desired. Mrs. George J. Denis. CHICKEN SALAD. Cut chicken in small pieces, not too fine, half as much cel- ery. Take four hard-boiled eggs, mash yolks fine, add one teaspoonful mustard, salt and pepper to taste, then oil until a smooth paste, vinegar one cup. Pour tablespoon vinegar65 SALADS. over chicken and celery. Toss all with silver fork, put in bowl, and on top bits of mayonnaise dressing, rounds of whites of eggs and capers. Fresh sprigs of celery all around dish and in center. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. CHICKEN AND CHEESE SALAD. Three hard-boiled eggs, one and one-half cups of grated cheese, one cup of chicken or veal chopped half fine, one tea- spoonful of mustard, one and one-half teaspoonfuls salt, one- tenth teaspoonful cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of oil or butter, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; rub yolks of eggs through fine sieve, gradually add oil, stirring all the time; add all the sea- soning, mix in meat and cheese lightly; garnish with lettuce, celery and whites of eggs. Kate E. Whitaker. CHIFFONADE SALAD. This salad consists of all the salads in season. For ex- ample, lettuce, romaine, chicory, escarol, tomato, beets, and celery cut in long slices. The dressing for this salad is made as follows: Take one hard-boiled egg and mash it as fine as possible with a fork; then add two pinches of paprika and a pinch of salt, half a teaspoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonful of hashed chives, a teaspoonful of hashed estragon, two tablespoonfuls of oil and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Add this to the salad, mix it well together and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. CODFISH AND POTATO SALAD. Slice boiled potatos thin, add cooked codfish shredded fine, in layers (potato then codfish), season with salt and pepper, and onion minced fine, and pour oil over all; mix well with a silver fork or wooden spoon. When the potatos have thor- oughly soaked up the oil, then add vinegar. Place in salad dish and slice hard-boiled egg over all. A good luncheon dish. Mrs. Adolf Petsch. CRAB SALAD. Two heads of lettuce, flesh of two boiled crabs. Break in small pieces. Place them with lettuce in salad bowl and pour a mayonnaise dressing over it. Garnish with hard-boiled eSSs- This makes enough for six persons.66 landmarks club cook book. CUCUMBER SALAD WITH CREAM DRESSING. To make this salad a success, have some sour cream. Take five tablespoonfuls of sour cream, two tablespoonfuls of vin- egar, half a teaspoonful of paprika, one pinch of salt and half a teaspoonful of hashed up chives; mix it well, so that the paprika does not form little balls. When well mixed add it to the cucumbers and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. EGG SALAD. Cover a platter with lettuce, using only the little yellow leaves. Boil eggs until hard, but not long enough so that the yolks will turn dark. Use eggs in proportion to number of persons to be served. Spread mayonnaise over the lettuce; cut up yolks and whites of eggs separately and not too fine. Place in alternate stripes, about two inches wide, on the let- tuce, taking care to have the stripes uniform and even. FISH SALAD. Any kind of cold white fish. If you boil fresh fish, put a little vinegar in to flake it. Add fresh beans, peas, carrots (this can be omitted) and beets; French dressing mixed thor- oughly with fish. When served, pour over a mayonnaise made with vinegar from capers; put a few capers on top. Miss Maurice. FRUIT SALAD. Cut the tops from one dozen oranges and scoop out pulp into a bowl; add one small box red strawberries, one-half pound fresh cherries from which the seeds have been re- moved, one-half teacup preserved fruit of any kind and three bananas, sweetening to taste. Stir thoroughly together and fill the orange skins. Whip one pint of cream stiff, and on top of each filled orange place a large spoonful of the whipped cream. Serve on delicate lettuce leaves as first course at a dinner or luncheon. FRUIT SALAD. Six large apples, almonds, celery; peel, core and chop the apples; blanc and chop the nuts; chop crisp celery; mix about equal parts of each with a cooked salad dressing. Just before serving stir in two-thirds cup of whipped cream. Mrs. H. Kerckhoff.67 SALADS. FRUIT SALAD. Make a dressing'by boiling a cup of water and one-fourth cup of sugar for five minutes; then put away to cool. Beat the yolk of one egg till thick and creamy; add to it four table- spoons of thick, sweet cream, and when mixed add the syrup and the juice from the fruit which you have prepared for the salad. Use one banana sliced, one cup of diced pineapple, four fresh apricots and one pint of raspberries. Arrange the fruit in a pyramid form and pour the dressing over it, being care- ful that it is equally distributed. Arrange it in a glass dish and garnish with grape leaves underneath. FRENCH FRUIT SALAD. One head lettuce, one dozen walnuts, two dozen large white grapes, three bananas, two oranges, mayonnaise dressing. Peel the oranges, divide into lobes and cut each lobe into three pieces, removing the seeds. Skin with a very sharp knife the grapes and seed them. Shell and halve the walnuts and slice the bananas with a silver knife. Arrange the fruit on the lettuce, rejecting all the leaves but the crispest and most delicate. Cover with the mayonnaise dressing. salad OF GRAPE FRUIT AND NUTS. Put meats of eight walnuts and pulp of a large grape fruit in a bed of crisp lettuce. Just before serving, dress with four tablespoonfuls olive oil in which has been stirred half teaspoon- ful salt, one teaspoonful sugar, one teaspoonful vinegar. Mrs. George Sinsabatjgh. lettuce SALAD. Take two fine lettuces, remove the outer green leaves, core, wash and drain in a wire basket, then split and cut the leaves into quarters and put them in a bowl. Have tomatos cut in thin slices, and place over the lettuce. Season as follows: Mix one pinch of salt and one-half pinch of pepper in two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, add one and one-half tablespoon- fuls of oil, pour over the salad and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell.68 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. LETTUCE SALAD WITH TOMATO JELLY. To make tomato jelly, take a can of tomatos of clear color and fine flavor. Fry in butter a slice pf carrot, two slices of onion, one sprig of thyme, half of one bay leaf, six pepper- corns and two stalks of celery. Add the quart of tomatos, season with salt, pepper and let simmer half an hour. Strain and add a third of a box of English gelatine to each pint of liquid. Soak the gelatine in a quarter of a cup of cofd water for every third of a box used. It will dissolve, if it has been soaked, as soon as it is stirred into the tomato mixture. Strain again through a cloth jelly strainer, and put into little cups holding about a gill each to mold. Put each mold of this jelly on a bleached lettuce leaf and a tablespoon of mayonnaise with chopped walnuts (chopped very fine). Mrs. Hugh Vail. MUSTARD DRESSING. * Three even tablespoons mustard, one even tablespoon sugar, one egg well beaten and mixed with sugar and mustard to a paste; one teacup vinegar. Put in double boiler and cook well. When cool, add one tablespoonful of oil. Bottle for use. Mrs. Harry Ross, San Francisco. ORANGE SALAD. Take three oranges, place on ice to cool and harden, peel and then slice round; remove the seeds, cover with powdered sugar, add two tablespoon fuls each of Maraschino, Cuaeva wine and brandy. Let stand on ice before serving. Miss Maurice. POTATO SALAD. Five medium-sized potatos sliced, broken meats of six Eng- lish walnuts, seven pickled olives cut in pieces, half cup capers, or nasturtium seeds; mayonnaise dressing with cream. Mrs. James M. Sanborn, Sati Gabriel. POTATO SALAD. Dressing: One quart milk, let scald, one large cup vinegar. Boil in separate vessel; one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon mustard, two tablespoons light brown sugar, one teaspoon salt, cayenne and black pepper to taste; two tablespoons melted69 SALADS. butter, one tablespoon celery. Mix all dry ingredients, beat three eggs light, add dry ingredients, then scalded milk and last vinegar. Let boil until thick as molasses. Use half re- ceipt and pour over equal parts potatos cut in dice, and celery in small pieces. Garnish dish with sliced hard-boiled eggs, celery and capers. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. RED SALAD. Three medium-sized potatos, boiled in skins and cooled; three small beets, deep red, cold. Slice potatos in thick slices and cut in four pieces; also the beets. One teaspoonful grated green onion. Put in deep bowl in layers. Pour over three tablespoonfuls salad oil; a sprinkle of paprika, salt. Cover closely and place in the refrigerator until chilled. ROSE SALAD. This salad was given to me by a member of the Sultan’s household. I have tried it and found it very delicious. Pound in a mortar and pestle the leaves of three large red roses and six almonds. Heat, but do not boil, a cup of strained honey, add the rose leaves and rub through a fine strainer. Take twelve ripe figs, or those conserved in glass, the syrup of which can be used instead of honey. Arrange them in a mound on a glass dish, add a wineglass of Chartreuse to the rose leaf syrup and pour over the figs. Place candied rose leaves over the mound and about its base, ornamenting the outer rim with fresh roses and thin green leaves. Mulberries may be used in place of the figs, or strawberries or peaches, if you wish to make an American adaptation of an Oriental salad. Justine Ingersoll. SCALLOP SALAD. Soak the scallops in salted water, simmer five minutes in boiling water, drain, cool, cut in slices and marinate with French dressing. At serving, drain, mix with equal bulk of celery, dress with mayonnaise, shape in a mound. Miss Elizabeth Shankland.70 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. SHRIMP SALAD. One can of canned shrimps washed in cold water, dried with a soft towel. To every pint of shrimps allow nearly half a pint of mayonnaise dressing. Serve with lettuce. SWEET-BREAD salad. Drop the sweet-breads into boiling salted water and cook twenty minutes; then plunge into cold water to harden. When cold, remove the membranes and little pipes and cut into dice. Day a tablespoon ful on crisp lettuce leaves, cover with mayon- naise dressing and serve. Delicious. SWEET-bread salad. Boil sweet-breads, cut in small pieces, add equal parts crisp celery and mayonnaise dressing; capers may be added if de- sired. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. string bean salad. Take one and one-half pounds of string beans, string care- fully and cut in as thin slices, lengthwise, as possible. Boil until tender; drain and let stand until cool; then add salt, pep- per, a little grated onion, four tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vin- egar, half a tablespoon ful of water and the juice of a lemon. TOMATO salad. Take six tomatos, peel and scoop out, pulp, strain juice off of pulp and cut into slices; add two whole tomatos cut and strained in same way, also two hard-boiled eggs, two table- spoonfuls of minced celery, two of olive oil, a level teaspoon- ful of mustard, one of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, mix all together and put in tomato. Serve in nest of lettuce. Harriet S. Bishop. TOMATO SALAD. Take nice, smooth, tomatos, peel without breaking, cut the stem end out, and take out inside with a small spoon. Chop fine some celery, lettuce, green peppers, cucumbers and the inside of the tomatos. Drain off every drop of the liquor and mix the vegetable with shrimps and mayonnaise. Fill the to- matos with the mixture, garnish the top of each with a ring cut from green pepper, and a drop of mayonnaise. Mrs. Fred Walton.SALADS. 71 TOMATOS—SPANISH DRESSING. Peel and slice the tomatos, not too thin, and lay them upon a platter; do not allow them to cover one another. Chop some onions (young) with parsley and green peppers, put a table- spoonful upon each slice of tomato and cover with mayon- naise dressing. Garnish with olives. Mrs. Fred Walton. TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. Peel rather small round tomatos, one for each person; dig out at the core end about half the tomato, and fill in the space with finely chopped cucumbers, with the smallest quantity of onion chopped with it, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Serve on lettuce leaves and partially cover the tomato with mayonnaise dressing. TOMATO AND SWEET-BREAD SALAD. Peel a large tomato, empty its contents; then take sweet- breads, which have been boiled and cut into dice, and mix with mayonnaise dressing; add a pinch of salt and a dash of pap- rika; mix it well and fill the tomato with this mixture. The tomato must he served very cold. Use one for each guest. Mrs. E. D. Neff, La Mirada. TOMATO JELLY SALAD. Stew one can or eight good-sized tomatos with one level teaspoonful cinnamon, half teaspoonful cloves, one tablespoon- ful of salt, a small onion, one tablespoonful sugar, two table- spoonfuls vinegar, a dash of cayenne; cook until tomatos are soft; pass through a sieve and pour while hot on to a table- spoonful of Knox gelatine soaked in a half cup of cold water. Pour into a mold and set on ice. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. This amount will serve ten people. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. TOMATO JELLY SALAD. Into a saucepan put half can of tomatos, one bay leaf, four cloves, one blade of mace, half teaspoonful of salt, quarter tea- spoonful of paprika, ten drops of onion juice; simmer 15 min- utes, and press through a sieve; add one-third box of gela-LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. tine which has been soaked in one-third cup of cold water, and stir until dissolved; add two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vin- egai, and pour into wetted molds. When firm serve on let- tuce leaves and garnish with mayonnaise. CHICKEN SALAD DRESSING. Yolks of six eggs well beaten. One-half pint of melted but- ter, or its equivalent in oil, three tablespoons of mixed mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Two teaspoons of celery seed. Mix thoroughly, then add three-quarters of a pint of strong vinegar, place on the stove, stirring constantly until thick like boiled custard. Mrs. Phebs M. Jewett. CREAM SALAD DRESSING. One cup of milk brought just to boil, yolks of two eggs well beaten, stirred into the milk, two tablespoons flour mixed in cold milk, one tablespoon of sugar, one small teaspoon of salt, one small teaspoon of mustard, pinch of red pepper, lump of butter size of an egg, one-half cup of vinegar. Mrs. Phebe M. Jewett. CREAM SALAD DRESSING. Put two cups of cream into a farina kettle to heat; when hot add a piece of butter the size of a walnut; stir into a little cold cream three teaspoonfuls of mustard, four of sugar, two of salt and a quarter of cayenne pepper; beat four eggs light and add to this mixture, which must be made very smooth. When the cream is hot add the egg mixture and cook like boiled cus- tard, being careful to remove from the fire before it curdles. Strain through a sieve and add while hot two-thirds cup of vinegar, beating until cool. One-half cup of cream whipped and added just before using is an improvement. Mrs. A. H. Thompson, Topeka, Kan. COOKED SALAD DRESSING. Yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons olive oil or butter, two tablespoons sugar; salt, pepper, mustard, grated nutmeg; stir constantly over a slow fire; when thick add half cup cream. Mrs. H. Kerckhoff.SALADS. 73 mayonnaise eor tomato jelly salad, etc. Yolks of two raw eggs, volks of three hard-boiled eggs, half teaspoonful of mustard, one gill of olive oil, dash of cayenne pepper, vinegar and salt to taste. Mrs. William S. Cross. MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Drop the yolk of one egg into a bowl, add one tablespoonful of salt and even tablespoonful of sugar; drop oil slowly drop by drop and stir briskly until it thickens, then can be dropped faster till it hardens, adding oil till you have the quantity de- sired; pour in the juice of one or two lemons slowly, beating briskly until it is thoroughly mixed, and sour enough to suit the taste; add half a teaspoonful of onion juice if desired. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh. SALAD DRESSING. Pour slowly seven tablespoonfuls of boiling vinegar over the yolks of four well beaten eggs, beating all the time. Re- turn to the stove; add butter the size of an egg, one table- spoonful of flour mixed with a little water, pepper, mustard, and a little sugar and salt. When boiled until quite thick let cool, and just before serving add a pint of whipped cream. Miss Elisa Bonsall. SALAD DRESSING. Half cup vinegar, three eggs beaten to a cream with two ta- blespoonfuls of sugar, three tablespoon fuls of very thick cream (sour cream will answer), half teaspponful of mustard and a little salt. Bring vinegar to a boil, mix other ingredients and stir into the vinegar, cook to a thick custard, taking care that it does not curdle. While hot stir in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Beat in a little whipped cream before serving. Mrs. Ferry, Sierra Madre. FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. One pinch salt, one-half pinch pepper, mix thoroughly with two tablespoonfuls vinegar and one and a half tablespoon fuls of salad oil. Pour over salad and serve immediately. h. c. w.CHAPTER VII. ENTREES. ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. Wrap medium sized oysters in slices of bacon, fastening with small splinters. Lay in a hot frying pan and fry a crisp brown. Serve hot on toasted crackers. Charlotte E. Hahn. CARROT FRITTERS. Beat into a julp a cup of boiled carrots and pass through a sieve. Add two tablespoons cream and two well beaten eggs. Put a piece of lard in a frying pan, when hot shape the mix- ture into fritters, fry and place on a hot dish. Serve with a brown sauce. CHICKEN PATTIES. A Friend. Breast of one chicken chopped fine, one pair sweet-breads parboiled and then cooked a short time in soup stock. Chop mushrooms and sweet-breads, but not too fine, season with salt. Make a sauce of soup stock, drawn butter and cream and mix thoroughly. Mrs. Stephen M. White. CHICKEN A LA TERRAPIN. One large chicken, one pint rich cream, one hard-boiled egg, half wineglass of sherry. Cut your chicken as for salad; put one cup cream on and thicken with a teaspoon corn starch; add chicken and the egg well beaten as you remove from fire, also wine. Serve hot or cold. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. CROQUETTES. Mix thoroughly one pint of finely chopped meat (chicken preferred), one teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, one-eighth of a teaspoon of pepper, a dash of red pep- per and one tablespoon of onion juice. Put half pint of milk over the fire, add one tablespoon of butter and two table-entrees. 75 * spoons of flour; let thicken and stir into the other ingredients. When cold form into balls, dip in egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat. Serve with tomato sauce. Mrs. Nannie M. Griffith, Johannesburg. CHICKEN CROQUETTES. Use cold roast or boiled chicken chopped fine (not too fine), three-quarters of a pound to one pound of mushrooms or half can mushrooms cut in small dices. Put into a saucepan a teaspoonful of grated onion and a tablespoonful of butter and let them begin to brown. Then stir in two heaping table- spoons of flour and half pint of chicken broth or of water mixed with the liquor of the canned mushrooms. Then add the chicken (chopped) and mushrooms, a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper and a glass of sherry. Stir the croquette mixture until it begins to boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and stir in the yolks of four raw eggs. After the eggs are added, pour the mixture upon an oiled dish and cool it. After the croquettes mixture is cold, fry the croquette as follows: Have ready a deep bowl containing two eggs beaten smooth, a large platter full of cracker dust or fine bread crumbs, and over the fire a frying kettle half full of hot lard. Wet the hands with cold water, form the croquettes like large corks, handling them very lightly and quickly. Roll them in crumbs, then dip them in the beaten egg and again roll in the crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in the hot lard. When the croquettes are done, take them out of the fat with a skim- mer, lay them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease and then serve. Mrs. John T. Griffith. CROQUETTES OF* FISH. Take any kind of boiled fish, separate it from the bones care- fully, chop with a little parsley and salt and pepper to taste. Beat up an egg with a teaspoonful of milk and flour. Roll the fish balls and turn them in the beaten egg and cracker crumbs or bread. Fry a light brown, and serve with mayonnaise or lemon sauce. 6 Mrs. Hermann Hellman.76 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. LOBSTER CROQUETTES. One cup lobster meat mashed fine, one cup mashed potato, yolks of two eggs beaten light, butter the size of an egg, tea- spoon of minced parsley. Mold size of an oyster, roll in egg and cracker crumbs, fry in hot lard. , Mrs. J. G. Mossin. LOBSTER CROQUETTES. Two cups of boiled lobster hashed fine, three tablespoons of flour, one tablespoon chopped parsley, one tablespoon but- ter, one cup cream, quarter of a small nutmeg, yolks of two eggs, salt and cayenne to taste. Add seasoning to lobster. Put cream on to boil, rub butter and flour together and add to cream. Then add the beaten yolks and cook two minutes. Take from the fire and add lobster, mix well. When cold form into chops. Roll first in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs. Put in a frying basket and fry in boiling oil or lard. Put the end of a small claw in each chop. Garnish with parsley and serve with a cream sauce. Mrs. Stoddard Jess. MACARONI CROQUETTES. One pint of cold boiled macaroni. Heat and moisten with thick, white sauce; add the beaten yolks of one egg, two table- spoons of grated cheese, salt and pepper to taste. Thick cream sauce: One pint hot cream, two tablespoons butter, four heaping tablespoons flour or two heaping table- spoons corn starch, half teaspoon salt, half teaspoon white pepper, half teaspoon celery salt, half teaspoon cayenne pepper. Mrs. W. F. Hook. CURRY MADE OF DRESSED MEAT. Take about one pound cold meat and cut into pieces one inch square; melt two ounces of drippings in a stew-pan. And when it fizzles, fry in it a small unripe apple and two small onions (cut in slices from crown to root). When tender, take the apple and onion up and rub them through a sieve! Mix the pulp with a dessert spoonful of curry powder, a dessert spoonful of flour and a little salt moistened with a little stock or water. Add more stock to make up half a pint and put the mixture into a stew-pan. When the sauce simmers, lay theENTREES. 77 meat in it and continue to simmer very gently for half an hour. Dish in the usual way with a loosely piled border of rice round the dish. Half a gill of cream or milk mixed with the sauce the last thing will be an improvement. If preferred, the onion instead of being rubbed through a sieve may be reserved and put into the sauce long enough before serving to become quite hot. Mrs. William S. Cross. deviled CRAB. Pick the meat from two hard-shell crabs, chop and mix with it one cup rolled cracker crumbs, one egg, piece of a lemon, half cup melted butter, salt to taste, a dash of cayenne. If not moist enough to hold well together, add a little cream or water. Thoroughly clean the crab shells, fill with the mixture, place slice of lemon on top of each and bake a half hour. Mrs. H. C. Austin. DEVILED CRAB. One crab, one tablespoonful butter, one cup cream, two eggs (hard boiled), one tablespoonful flour, salt, black and cayenne pepper. Pick out the meat of a boiled crab; put the butter and flour in a saucepan and stir until smooth; add the cream and let it come to a boil. Chop up the whites of the eggs and add to the meat, and put this in the cream. Mix cracker crumbs and yolks of eggs and put on top. Bake in shells until a light brown. Mrs. Madison W. stewart. HASH. One cup chopped roast beef, one cup cold boiled rice, one cup milk, one tablespoon butter, salt, pepper, Worcestershire sauce. Cook twenty minutes. When cool, add one egg. Bake fifteen minutes. Mrs. L. W. Blinn. HAM PATTIES. Lean ham chopped fine and mixed with crumbed bread. Sea- son to taste. Add lump of butter, moisten with milk to a soft paste. Fill muffin tins and break an egg on top of each. Sprinkle with cracker crumbs and bake. Mrs. Koepfli.78 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. HAM AND POTATO PUDDING (GERMAN). Take about six good-sized boiled potatos, one onion chopped very fine, and minced cold boiled ham. Butter a pudding dish, sprinkle a layer of cracker crumbs over sides and bottom of dish; put in a layer of potatos sliced (as if for salad), then a layei of minced ham, some onion, some pepper and salt, then another layer of potato, ham, onion and seasoning, etc. Over the top sprinkle cracker crumbs and lumps of butter here and there; over all pour a cup of cream or good, rich milk and bake a nice brown. Mrs. Ad. Petsch. HAM AND RICE. Mince some ham very fine—about enough to make a cup full fry light yellow, put in a cupful of well washed rice; let this get thoroughly heated, but not hard, then add boiling wa- ter ; let cook briskly for about fifteen minutes, then set back to steam. Not all rice cooks in the same time; some needs more, some less time. Flora Golsh. HUNGARIAN DISH. Two pounds finely chopped beef and two medium-sized egg plants. First slice egg plants (not peeled) quarter inch thick, put salt between layers and let stand half hour. Put between linen towel and pat quite dry, and then fry (in half butter and half lard) brown on both sides and lay on a dish on back of stove. Put meat in a skillet with two cups beef broth or one and a half cups water with beef extract, well seasoned with salt, pepper, cayenne "and paprika. Put layer of meat and egg plant alternately in baking dish and bake in hot oven over half hour. Serve with boiled or mashed potatos. Good luncheon dish or entree. Mrs. Koepfli. STEWED KIDNEYS. Six sheep kidneys, must be perfectly fresh, two tablespoon- fuls of butter, quarter of an onion cut in small pieces, one table- spoonful of kitchen bouquet, one teaspoonful of Worcester- shire sauce, one teaspoonful of tomato ketchup, dash of paprika,79 ENTREES. $alt and pepper to taste. Cut kidneys in small slices, remov- ing all fat and gristle. Have your frying pan very hot, put in your butter, when melted put in onion and brown, add kid- neys, dredge thoroughly with flour, cook quickly for five min- utes, stirring all the time ; add ail other ingredients with half a cup of boiling water, and cook about ten minutes. A table- spoon of sherry wine just before serving is a good addition. Kidneys must be cooked quickly or they become tough. Mrs. Henry Worthington. PIGS IN BLANKETS. Drain large oysters—the largest you can get—and wrap each one in a blanket made of the thinnest possible slice of bacon, pinned together with a wooden toothpick; fry quickly and not too much. Serve on toasted brown bread, with lemon. Mrs. Blanch B. Wotkyns POTATO PATTIES. Mash three or four moderate sized potatos; add a raw egg to them; make into the form of little patty cases, fill with a small quantity of minced meat, or of dressed fish; cover with a small ball of the potato; brush the outsides over with volk of egg; put into the oven to brown. When done, serve on dish covered with paper. * * Mrs. William S. Cross. SARDINE CANAPE. One can sardines, one tablespoon mustard (dry), one pinch salt, half red pepper, one teaspoon essence of anchovies, one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, six yolks hard-boiled eggs, two ounces butter. Mix all together, pound thoroughly and pass through a tamis sieve. Spread generously on small toasted biscuit, or small squares of toasted bread. Mrs. William Pridham. DEVILED SHRIMPS. Put one tablespoon of butter in a saucepan, adtt one table- spoon flour, stir together without browning. Add half pint cream, stir constantly until thoroughly cooked and smooth. Add pepper to taste, stir in the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten. When cold, add half teaspoonful mustard. Moisten with two tablespoonfuls catsup.80 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. After mixing shrimps with above, fill shells, dust with bread crumbs and bake until brown. With crab in place of shrimps, add salt to taste. Mrs. L. W. Bunn. SCOTCH WOODCOCK. Two tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, half pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste, three shakes of red pepper. Just before serving, add six hard-boiled eggs, sliced. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. CREAMED SWEET-BREADS. Soak two pounds of sweet-breads in cold water for an hour, remove the skin and blood. Have cold water enough to cover them in a saucepan; put in it salt, six pepper-corns, one onion, two cloves, one bay leaf, one tablespoonful vinegar, a sprig parsley. Put over the fire ; when boiling hard, put in the sweet- breads and let simmer slowly until tender; drain them and put into very cold water until they are thoroughly chilled; then cut into small squares. Cut in halves the larger mushrooms in a can of the French imported ones. Make a cream sauce with half pound butter, using cream or milk with the liquor from the mushrooms; salt well, add a little cayenne pepper and a -tablespoon of lemon juice; when smooth, put in the mushrooms and sweet-breads and serve. This is a nice chafing dish. The sweet-breads and mush- rooms being prepared beforehand, the cream sauce can be made at the table. Mrs. Gilbert E. Overton. SWEET-BREAD PATTIES. Two pair of sweet-breads soaked about three hours in salted water: Skim carefully, then put in quart of water, with half a chile pepper and small bit of onion. Cook thoroughly; take out, let cool and cut in dice. Add one cup of cream a-nd two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirred into two of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mix all together, let come to a boil, serve in pattie shells. Chicken or oysters may be used in same way. sweet-breads a la roumage. Have ready four medium-sized parboiled sweet-breads, firm and cold. Fry in a tablespoonful of buter, two tablesponfulsENTREES. 81 of minced onion, four cloves, a bit of mace, and a trifle of bay leaves, with four bruised pepper-corns; when the onion is very brown, add a pint of broth; boil until reduced one-half, and strain if the bits of onion and seasonings are objected to. Add half a can of mushrooms, cut into slices, to this gravy, with four sliced truffles; thicken with half a teaspoonful of flour, color with kitchen bouquet, add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup and a gill of port; lay in the sweet-breads and simmer a few minutes. Mrs. Nettb O’Melveny. lambs’ SWEET-BREADS WITH VILLEROY SAUCE. Select the desired quantity of sweet-breads, blanch and place them in a stew-pan, adding broth to half their height, boil till tender and the gravy is reduced. Put the sweet-breads between two plates, and leave till cold. Cut each sweet-bread in two, dip them in Villeroy sauce, and place them on a baking sheet. When the sauce has cooled on them, take them from the bak- ing sheet with the aid of a knife, roll them in bread crumbs again, and fry in boiling fat; when nicely browned all over, drain, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. MOCK TAMALES (GERMAN TAMALES). Remnants of roasts, especially veal, pork, chickens and beef —chop very fine, add onion or juice of onion, season highly with cayenne pepper, a little chile, salt, grated lemon, celery salt, marjorie, parsley, all finely prepared, two eggs beaten, all mixed thoroughly. The covering is made of German pancakes, a thin batter of flour, two eggs, salt and water, fried the full size of skillet or gridiron, make seven or eight pancakes; fill these when cool lengthwise with the prepared meat, roll until it holds together nicely. Place the filled pancakes in baking pan and baste with soup stock. If gravy is left over, add this shortly before serv- ing. One-half hour is sufficient time to bake—be careful to keep moist. Mrs Mary J. Schallfrt. IMITATION TERRAPIN. Cut cold chicken, mutton or veal fine, sprinkle with cayenne pepper and salt; mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs,LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. pour it with a little wine, walnut catsup, mustard and a lump of butter in a stew-pan five minutes. Have a fourth hard-boiled egg, from which take the yolk and roll into little eggs like those of a terrapin. Scatter them through the dish when ready for the table. Garnish dish with a few slices of lemon and some parsley. Mrs. Stephen M. White. simple timbale halibut. Take half-pound uncooked halibut, cut in fine pieces, pound in a mortar, pass through a sieve; mix a half-cup of bread crumbs with a half-cup of milk; stir until it makes a smooth paste; remove it from the fire; add the fish pulp, half-teaspoon of salt, dash of paprika. Then beat in lightly quarter cup of butter, the whites of five eggs, little by little fill buttered timbale pans with the mixture, place these in a pan of hot water in a moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve with a white sauce. FISH TIMBALE. One pound and a half of uncooked halibut put in a mortar and pound to a pulp, then put through a puree sieve to make one cup of pulp, add one-half cupful of panada, one-quarter cup of butter, yolks of three eggs, salt, pepper, dash of nutmeg; stir well together, pass through sieve again. Place on ice, add slowly one cup of cream. Butter timbale molds and fill three- quarter ; place them in a baking pan with two cups of hot water, bake twenty minutes. Serve with a tomato sauce. Mrs. Mossin. BREAD PANADA FOR FISH TIMBALE. Soak the crumbs of bread; express the water and place the bread in a saucepan on the fire; stir to a paste with milk or stock, and continue to stir until it leaves the side of the pan. SAUCE for fish TIMBALE. One can tomatos stewed half-hour, put through puree sieve,1 one tablespoon flour, one of butter in a saucepan; when it is blended, grate a teaspoon of onion juice, one teaspoon kitchen bouquet, little mace, teaspoon salt, paprika, pepper, tea- spoon anchovy catsup, pour in tomato, boil ten minutes.ENTREES. 83 TIMBALE oe hare. Trim off all the skin of some cold cooked hare, chop the flesh and place it in a mortar, pound it till smooth; mix with it one- third its quantity of grated bread crumbs, a little finely chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with mixture, add a few drops clear gravy, bring all to a proper consistency, butter small tim- bale molds, fill with mixture, place them in a stew-pan with boiling water to three-fourths their height, steam half an hour. Warm a little gravy, mix a little claret; when ready turn out on a dish ; pour the gravy around. TIMBALE OE salmon. Remove the bone and skin from one can of salmon, add grad- ually, beating all the time, four tablespoonfuls of thick cream and the unbeaten whites of two eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. Fill small cups or egg cups with the mixture, stand in a dish of hot water and bake twenty minutes. When done turn out of cups on plates and pour over them the following sauce. Butter Sauce: Two tablespoons of flour, one-half cup butter, one pint boiling water. Stir butter and flour, gradually add boiling water, stirring constantly until it thickens, flavor with lime juice. Serve at once. Mrs. E. A. Padgham. TRIPE WITH ONION SAUCE. Have the tripe very fresh, wash it thoroughly, remove all fat and cut in strips about an inch wide and three or four inches long. Cook three-quarters or one hotir, peel the onions, and put in water in which a little salt has been added to keep them white, let them remain for a quarter of an hour. Put them into a stew-pan, cover them with water and cook until tender. Should the onions be very strong, change the water several times, drain thoroughly, chop, and put through a sieve or po- tato i icer. Rub one teaspoonful of flour, two ounces of butter smoothly together in a half-pint of milk over a fire, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; let it boil up quickly for a minute or two, add tripe. Mrs. Henry Worthington.LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. 84 “vfnison soy” for thf chafing dish. Prepare the venison in thin slices. Put into the chafing dish two large tablespoons of butter. When hot (boiling point) put in the venison. Cook until half done, and add one tablespoon currant jelly, one tablespoon (scant) Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoon chopped parsley, with salt and pepper to taste, and lastly one cup cream. Cover closely and cook until venison is done—eight or ten minutes. The “soy” is dependent for its deliciousness upon the proper quantities of jelly and Worces- tershire sauce. Stir often and serve on very hot plates with bits of toast cut in strips. Mrs. C. C. Carpenter.CHAPTER VIII. MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. bechamel sauce. Put two ounces of butter and an ounce and a half of flour into a stew-pan; when well mixed, add one pint of white stock, . and stir till it boils; then add six mushrooms washed and peeled. Let the sauce boil up again, and simmer for twenty minutes with the lid half on, to throw up the butter, which skim off when it rises. Strain the same through a tammy into an- other stew-pan. Stir in now half a pint of cream and the strained juice of half a lemon, and let it boil well from three to five minutes. Pour it into a basin, and stir while it cools. Mrs. Nette O’Melveny. BERNESE SAUCE. Take five yolks of eggs, one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and one of pepper. Stir, and as soon as the eggs begin to con- solidate take the saucepan off the fire and add one ounce of butter. Then put the saucepan on the fire again and stir in one ounce more butter; repeat this twice, then add one tablespoon- ful of chopped tarragon, and one teaspoonful of tarragon vine- gar. This sauce must be stiff and have the consistency of may- onnaise. Mrs. H. W. O’Mblveny. BORDEAUX SAUCE. Two gallons cut cabbage, one gallon sliced tomatos, one dozen onions, one gallon vinegar, one ounce each of tameric powder, celery seed, allspice, black pepper, cloves and ground ginger. One-half pound white mustard seed, one and three- quarters pound sugar, one gill salt. Mix all together and boil twenty minutes, then pack in jars. Mrs. Schofield. BROWN SAUCE. Take six mushrooms washed and peeled, one carrot, one shalot, and one small onion. Cut up into a stew-pan and fry86 landmarks club cook book. them in two ounces of butter till it becomes a good brown ; then stir in one and a half ounce of flour, and lastly pour in one pint of brown stock. Let it boil ten minutes, and skim it; season with pepper and salt; strain, and pour over the’dish for which it is intended. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. COLD MEAT DRESSING. Three eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful salt, one scant tablespoonful of mustard, one cup of cream, one cup of vinegar. Stir butter, salt and sugar in a bowl until perfectly smooth, add the egg? and beat well, then the mustard. Then add the vinegar slowly and beating all the time, and last the cream. Place bowl in a basin of boiling water and stir until it thickens like soft cus- tard. Frances Widney Workman. cold sauce for fish (french). Put in a wooden bowl the yellows of two hard eggs and four anchovies chopped fine; also parsley and similar herbs chopped very fine. Pile or mash all together and add gradually, while turning, about five spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, a teaspon- ful of French mustard, some salt and pepper. Set on ice. If the mustard is left out, this sauce is excellent with vegetables like asparagus. Marthe Dornerin. CUCUMBER SAUCE. Grate two cucumbers, boil until tender, thicken with table- spoon flour, same of butter, use little stock, teaspoon of tarra- gon vinegar. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. CURRANT JELLY SAUfcE. For boiled or roast mutton. Dissolve a half-glass of curant jelly in sherry wine until it becomes smooth; season with salt and cayenne pepper. Mrs. Randolph Miner. DRAWN BUTTER. This forms the foundation of most sauces and from it a variety may be made by adding different flavors, onions, parsley, celery, mint, etc., as it is suitable for meat, game or fish to be served.meat and fish sauces. Rub one tablespoonful of flour with a quarter of a pound of butter ; when well mixed put in a saucepan with a tablespoon- ful of milk or water; set in a double boiler, stir well and allow it to come to a boil. For mint, celery or onion sauce, the vege- tables must be boiled first, minced and then added to the drawn butter gradually. When re-warming it, place gravy bowl con- taining gravy in boilim^water. dutch sauce. Make half a pint of melted butter and put it with the yolks of four or five eggs into a stew-pan. Stand it in a saucepan of hot water, and whisk it well over the fire till it thickens. It must not boil, as it will curdle and be spoilt. Season to taste with salt and cayenne, and at the last stir in two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Mrs. H. W. O’Meivbny. FISH SAUCE. Two tablespoons butter, two of flour, cook slowly until yel- low, use fish stock, a blade of mace, juice of one lemon, half teaspoon minced parsley, spoonful capus, yolk of one egg. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. francetellFs SEASONING. Take of nutmegs and mace one ounce each, of cloves and pepper-corns two ounces each, one ounce of dried bay leaves, three ounces of basil, three ounces of marjoram, two ounces of winter savory, three ounces of thyme, one-half ounce of cayenne pepper, one-half ounce of grated lemon rind, two cloves of garlic. All these ingredients must be well pulverized in a mortar—first separately, afterwards together, and sifted through a fine-wire sieve, then put away in dry corked bottles for use. FRENCH SAUCE. Put in a pan one or two spoonfuls of olive oil, a small onion chopped very fine, some mushrooms cut in pieces, and a little garlic. (This last may be left out according to taste.) Put over rather a brisk fire for a few minutes and then stir in a level spoonful of flour and gradually pour in some stock and a glass of white wine, turning the sauce till it is perfectly smooth.88 landmarks club cook book. Add salt, pepper and a few leaves of parsley and laurel, which must be taken out before serving. Allow the sauce to boil gently for half an hour, and serve hot. Marthe Durnerin. Game sauce. . °ne tablesPOon chives, half tablespoon powdered junipei ber- i ies, teaspoon sugar, tablespoon mustard, mix with half cup oil and vinegar, salt and pepper. GREEN SAUCE. A handful of chives, cherville, tarragon and watercress, wash m cold water to deprive them of bitter taste, add yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, two anchovies, pound in a mortar, strain through fine sieve, with lemon and olive oil as for mayonnaise. HERRING SAUCE. Soak a herring in milk over night, take out bones, chop fine, with yolks of three hard-boiled eggs; mix with three table- spoonfuls olive oil, same of vinegar, for cold fish or meat. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. HORSERADISH SAUCE. Two tablespoons grated horseradish, two tablespoons vine- gar, three tablespoons cream, one saltspoon salt, one saltspoon mustard ; mix the ingredients together, adding cream last. Mrs. E. Wolters. LEMON SAUCE. Boil some soup stock with a few slices of lemon, a little sugar and grated nutmeg; add chopped parsley ; thicken with a teaspoonful of flour or yolks of eggs. Miss Frieda Helmann. MADEIRA SAUCE. Take half a pint of brown stock, a tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of cayenne, a little salt and pepper to taste, and a glass of Madeira, and cook it till it thickens and is done. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. mayonnaise sauce (French). Put in a bowl the yellows of two eggs, taking care that no germ remains, as it sometimes prevents the thickening of theMEAT AND EISH SAUCES. 89 sauce. Mix the yellows perfectly with a little salt and vinegar; turn very regularly and always the same way, while you pour in little by little ten large spoonfuls of very fresh olive oil and one of vinegar. If well made, the sauce becomes thick and nearly white. Mustard and “fines herbes” chopped very fine may be added according to taste. Make this sauce in a cool place and set it on ice for one or two hours. It is good with all kinds of white meat and cold fish. Marthe Durnerin. MARINADE EOR GAME. Pour in a saucepan one bottle of white wine, one pint of vine- gar, one quart water, one handful of pepper-corns, four bay leaves, two lumps sugar, a slice or two of carrot, one onion, a root of parsley; boil up well, turn in an earthen vessel, and it is ready for use. All game should be marinaded at least two days before cooking, and should be turned at least twice a day. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. NASTURTIUM SAUCE. Take about six ounces of butter, cut in small bits in sauce- pan and one small glass of water mixed with a little flour to make a stiff batter; pour this over butter, hold saucepan over hot fire, shaking quickly around until the butter is melted; let it just boil up and then take from the fire; thicken with nastur- tium seeds that have been pickled simply bv standing in cold vinegar. Delicious with boiled mutton. OLIVE SAUCE. Brown two tablespoons of flour, two tablespoons butter, little lemon rind, thin with white wine; cook quarter of an hour then slice half cup olives. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. OYSTER SAUCE FOR BOILED poultry. Place the saucepan over the fire with a tablespoon of flour, same of butter; stir together until it bubbles, then gradually mix in the liquor from the oysters and enough broth from the poultry to make a sauce the consistency of cream; season with salt and pepper, let it boil a moment, then put the sauce- pan containing the sauce into a pan of hot water; place it onLANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. the back of the fire to keep hot until wanted; put in, the oys- ters, boil once more. Dish the poultry from a little sauce, and the remainder serve in sauce boat. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. PIQUANT SAUCE. Soften two or three red peppers in boiling water less than a minute; dry them ; put in a mortar with a clove of garlic, pound to a paste, add a little water, turn in a saucepan contain- ing one cupful of boiling oil, season with salt and vinegar. Fish should be cooked with this sauce, then poured over it. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. PORT WINE SAUCE EOR GAME. Pour one gill of port wine in an earthen vessel,, adding half a wine glass melted red currant jelly, a saltspoon salt, a tea- spoon lemon juice together with half saltspoon of cayenne, a teacup of thick brown stock or any good gravy; place the vessel on the fire and boil. When done put in a sauce boat and serve. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. PORT WINE SAUCE. Prepare half-pint melted butter sauce and incorporate a wine glass of port wine, sweeten to taste with powdered sugar, boil gently for quarter of an hour, stirring occasionally. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. sauce for venison or game. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, to which add two ounces flour, and put on a slow fire, stirring until colored a nice brown, then mix with the flour and butter a pint of stock, one and one-half ounces of lean raw ham, one carrot, an onion, piece of celery, two cloves, pinch of salt and pepper; stir until beginning to boil, simmer gently for one hour, remove the fat. Use one-half pint of the above sauce and one-eighth pint of currant jelly; heat until jelly is dissolved, and serve. Mrs. E. Wolters. SICILIAN SAUCE. Place in a mortar half a tablespoon coriander seed and four cloves, bruise them well, then place them in a saucepan with half cup of gravy, one cupful essence ham, together with the thinly-shredded peel of half a lemon ; when it is boilmg addmeat and pish sauces. 91 two bay leaves, two garlic cloves, one head of celery sliced; boil until reduced to half its quantity, then add a wine glass of white wine, strain through a fine sieve, work in well a tablespoon butter and one tablespoon of flour; put all back on fire, stirring until sauce is thick; serve hot with roast fowl or meat. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. SPANISH SAUCE. Cut up some slices of ham, a little veal, and some trimmings and giblets of fowl. Place a lump of butter, well mixed with fine flour, in a saucepan ; stir over a quick fire till a good brown color, moisten with stock, a tumblerful of white wine, and the juice of a lemon. Simmer by the side of the fire for several hours; pass through a tammy, clear off all grease, and thicken with a little meat glace. Mrs. H. W. O'MELVERY. SAUCE A LA TARTARE (FRENCH). Put in an earthen bowl some parsley and a little new onion chopped very fine; add salt, pepper, a little vinegar, a tea- spoonful of French mustard, the yellow of two raw eggs, three large spoonfuls of cold white sauce (see white sauce). Pour in gradually about five spoonfuls of oil, stirring the mix- ture all the time the same way. Set on ice to stiffen. Marthe Durnerin. TARTARE SAUCE. Beat together the yolks of two eggs, one teacup of oil. three tablespoons of vinegar. When well beaten add one tablespoon mustard, one teaspoon sugar, one tablespoon chopped capers, same quantity of chopped cucumber pickles, the juice of an onion (grate it to extract juice), saltspoon pepper. This sauce can be used for meats or fish. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. TOMATO JELLY FOR ROAST MEAT. Tear in pieces some ripe tomatos and stew them until thor- oughly cooked, with only sufficient water to keep them from burning. Put the pulp into a jellv bag and when the juice has 792 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. trickled through, put one pound of lump sugar to each pint of juice and boil rapidly until it jellies. If the color is not bright red, a few drops of cochineal will improve it. Mrs. William S. Cross. TOMATO SAUCE (FOR GATEAU). One cup of water or stock, three cups of strained tomatos, half a large bay leaf, one clove of garlic, one onion, two or three sprays parsley, one clove, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of salt, one salt- spoonful of white pepper. Stew vegetables till tender; rub butter to a cream, add the flour to it and then add to sauce; stir till dissolved; let boil three minutes; strain around gateau and serve very hot. . Kate E. Whitaker. WALNUT SAUCE. Take a cup of walnuts, same of almonds well pounded in a mortar, add a slice of bread soaked in vinegar, one tooth of garlic; when well pounded, add salt; fry in oil, stir well, pour over fish or meat. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. WHITE SAUCE. Put in a saucepan a lump of very fresh butter. When it is melted but not warm, stir in briskly the same volume of flour, one heaping spoonful of each making about one and a half pints of sauce. Slowly add in some tepid water, turning briskly on a very slow fire. When the sauce is perfectly smooth and thick, after ten minutes’ cooking, salt and pepper it; take off from the fire and pour it slowly in a bowl containing a yellow of egg, raw, and a little vinegar, beating all the time. The sauce is then ready to serve. It is good with asparagus, arti- chokes, fish, etc. Marthe Durnerin. WHITE SAUCE. One cup milk, hot, one tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of flour. Butter should be melted and bubbling before adding flour. Put in the flour all at once, stir smooth, add the hot milk slowly, allowing the sauce to boil up once between each ad- dition of milk. When done, add half teaspoonful salt, one- quarter teaspoonful pepper. Mbs. George H. Wadleigh.CHAPTER IX. VEGETABLES. All vegetables except potatos, asparagus, peas, and cauli- flower should boil as fast as possible; these four only moder- ately. To prevent the bad odor arising from boiling cabbage, put it in plenty of boiling water, add a pinch of soda, cover closely, boil fast; keep boiling for half an hour, no longer. Onions should be boiled in milk and water—equal parts. Potatos should be pared before being boiled, if you wish to have them mashed and look white. Pour off the water the min- ute they are done and stand on the back of the stove covered with a napkin. Sweet potatos should not be pared, and they require longer cooking than the common potato. Potatos are good with all meats. Turnips, beets, cabbage, cauliflower, and greens are eaten with boiled meats. Mashed turnip, onion, and apple sauce, with roast pork. Tomatos are good with every kind of meat. Green peas, green corn, string beans, with either boiled or roasted meats. time table Tor cooking vegetables. Potatos, boiled Potatos, baked Sweet potatos, boiled Sweet potatos, baked 'Squash, boiled Squash, baked Green peas, boiled . . Shelled beans, boiled String beans, boiled . Green corn Asparagus Spinach Tomatos, fresh Tomatos, canned Cabbage 30 minutes. 45 minutes. 45 minutes. 60 minutes. 25 minutes. 45 minutes. .20 to 40 minutes. 60 minutes. 1 to 2 hours. . 25 to 60 minutes. . 15 to 30 minutes. .... 1 to 2 hours. 1 hour. Yu hour. ... to 2 hours.94 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Cauliflower . . . Dandelions . .. Beet greens .. . Onions Beets Turnips, white Turnips, yellow Parsnips Carrots .... i to 2 hours. . . . 2 to 3 hours. i hour. . . i to 2 hours. .. . . i to 5 hours. 45 to 6o minutes. . . i to 2 hours. . . . . i to 2 hours. i to 2 hours. Miss Parloa. ARTICHOKES AL INBERNO. Boil artichokes for about ten minutes, take out, put them into a pan, open leaves a little, and pour in between leaves the stuffing, then bake in a quick oven for about five min- utes. Make stuffing by taking a lump of butter and some sweet oil, let it get good and hot; add two of the small salted anchovies to every artichoke, dissolve well and remove bones, then add some chopped garlic and some chopped parsley, some grated bread and let all cook for about eight or ten minutes, then serve. Louise Guasti. STUBBED ARTICHOKES. Trim your artichokes by cutting off the top and ends of the leaves with knife and scissors. Boil in salt water fifteen min- utes. Let cool, and remove the hearts and tender leaves; chop, then crush through a colander. Leave only a good thickness for a shell. Add to the hearts a little soaked bread, butter, cream, pepper, salt, a suspicion of onion and yolks of two eggs (for one dozen artichokes). Stuff and bake in pan ten min- utes. Sauce: Butter melted with a little flour stirred in, and then add cream. Mrs. A. Haas. BAKED BANANAS. Place on a buttered dish six bananas peeled and cut in half lengthwise, and baste them with this dressing: One level tablespoonful butter, two heaping tablespoonfuls sugar, juice ofVEGETABLES. 95 one lemon. Use half this dressing and bake fifteen minutes; then use the remainder and bake fifteen minutes longer. Serve either hot or cold. Mrs. Madison W. Stewart. BAKED BANANAS. Remove skins from six bananas, put in a shallow granite pan; mix two tablespoons melted butter, one-third cup sugar, and two tablespoons lemon juice. Baste bananas with one- half the mixture. Bake twenty minutes in a slow oven bast- ing during baking with the remaining mixture. Mrs. David Peacock. TRIED BANANAS. Peel the bananas, dip in butter and fry. a rum sauce. Serve very hot with Mrs. George J. Denis. BAKED BEANS WITH TOMATO. Three cups of beans, half onion, one can tomatos, one table- spoon butter, bacon about three inches square, one tablespoon molasses, one chile; soak the beans over night; in the morning let them boil up with a pinch of soda. Pour off the water and cover with cold water; add the bacon and molasses, cook until tender; then put them in the oven and bake one hour. Add the onion which has been browned in the butter, the tomatos, chile, salt and cayenne pepper (to taste) strained. As it cooks down, keep adding this sauce, and, if necessary, a little water, until the beans are done, which will require a slow oven the greater part of a day. Mrs. Frank W. King. CURRIED BEANS WITH TOMATO. Pick over and wash a pint of pink beans and put on the fire with cold water. Ret them heat slowly, and when they have come to a boil, add half a teaspoon of baking soda. This soft- ens the skins and makes the beans wholesome. Boil for fifteen minutes, drain, and return to the stove with plenty of boiling water. Cook for ten minutes or so, then drain and rinse thor- oughly. Peel and chop some apple (or an orange, if you can’t get an apple) and a good-sized onion, and fry with a table-LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. spoon of butter and a teaspoon of curry powder. Put them in a bean-pot, or a two-quart stone jar, with a well-fitting cover, with the beans; add one tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, a good tablespoon butter, a cup of tomato, a pinch of mustard, and a small bird-pepper chopped fine and full of seeds (or a little cayenne) ; add water to cover, and watch that the beans don’t get dry. Bake eight hours at least, very slowly. When the jar is emptied, wash it, fill it with wood ashes and boiling water and let it stand in the oven for a morning. This keeps it nice and sweet. M. R. p. BljANS SPANISH. Soak over night two small cups of pink beans. Then boil until tender. Put five or six red peppers on to boil until soft enough to rub through hair sieve. Put a large tablespoonful of lard in the frying pan and add a couple of slices of bacon or salt pork. Let fry until a little brown, and add the pep- per sauce and a green pepper cut in small pieces. Put in small quantities of garlic cut very fine, so as not to be noticeable. Then put in the beans and plenty of the juice. Add a little salt, some grated California cheese; cook all together until thoroughly done and well flavored. Mrs. George W. Lichtenberger. STATU OF MAINF BAKUD BF,ANS. Soak one pint of beans over night. In the morning drain from water and add one teaspoon molasses, one teaspoon of sugar and a little salt, if there is no lean in the pork, and one- half pound of salt pork (in one piece, not cut in slices). Cover with water and bake in the oven slowly all day. Water should be added frequently during the forenoon, but if properly cooked none will be needed at least two hours before serving. Mrs. Florence Porter Collins. STRING BUANS. Two pounds of string beans, half small onion cut fine, one teaspoon chopped parsley, two tablespoons butter. Cut the ends and remove the strings. When large, cut them diagonally in small pieces. Put in boiling water and boil until tender. By97 vegetables. adding a pinch of soda to the water, it will keep the beans green. When cooked, pour into the colander to remove all the water, place the butter in the pan with the onion and brown; then add the beans seasoned with salt, pepper and parsley. Cook for a few minutes, shaking well, then serve. Mrs. Eugene O. McLaughlin. STRING BEANS. Take the fresh, tender bean; break off the tops and bottoms carefully, stringing them both sides; wash in cold water, drain and place in a saucepan with boiling salted water. Cook until tender. Meanwhile put the yolks of three eggs in a basin, beat with half cup of cream, adding a tablespoon of butter. Put this mixture on the beans when quite hot; mix in a tablespoon vinegar together with the beans, which have been drained. Re- move pan from the fire, steam gently for six or seven minutes, stirring constantly. When done turn on a dish and serve at once. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Wash well in salted water about two pounds of Brussels sprouts; pick them well; place on fire in a saucepan filled with water, a little salt, quarter teaspoon bicarbonate of soda. Leave off the lid; boil fast until quite tender. When done drain out dry on a cloth. Put in a saucepan two tablespoons butter, a tablespoon chopped parsley, juice of one lemon, a little salt and white pepper. Mix together well with a wooden spatula. Place the sprouts on a dish, turn the sauce on them. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. STEWED RED CABBAGE. Cut very fine. Put in a saucepan two tablespoons drippings; when hot put in cabbage, adding half cup vinegar, one-half cup hot water, little salt and pepper. Pare and quarter two good sized apples, cook with cabbage about three-quarters of an hour. Delicious with roast duck or pork. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. CABBAGE IN CREAM. I akc a well blanched cabbage, chop it fine, placing it in a saucepan with a couple tablespoons of butter, little salt, a little98 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. grated nutmeg. Add a tablespoon flour, stirring well, and then pom in a breakfast cup of cream. Cook until the cabbage and cream are thoroughly mixed, about a half hour. A Friend. CARROTS WITH EGGS. Scrape, cut in slices and boil in salted water until tender, French carrots. Drain off the water and put in a skillet with butter; add several eggs, which scramble with the carrots. Carrie T. Waddilove. FRENCH CARROTS. Scrape nicely and cut in slices, put in a double boiler, cover with milk, season with butter, pepper and salt and let cook all day, or until the milk has thickened. Carrie T. Waddilove. CARROTS, POULETTE STYLE. Wash and scrape the required number of carrots, place in a bowl of boiling water to scald for a few moments. Take out, drain, slice, put in a saucepan of boiling water with a bit of butter, boil until they are quite tender; put a little butter (a teaspoon), also flour; cook a few moments, add a little lem- on juice, the yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper, a cup of rich stock. Place the carrots in; toss them over the fire so as to cook without boiling. Turn out on a dish and serve. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. cauliflower. Pluck off the outside leaves, soak in salted water, top down- ward, to cleanse it; then cook in salted boiling water twenty minutes, or until quite tender; serve in a shallow dish. Cover with a cream sauce or with cracker crumbs and melted but- ter. Is often served with a French dressing. Mrs. J. G. Mossiw. BOILED CHESTNUTS served AS A vegetable. Peel off the outside skin of the chestnut. Steep in boiling water until the skin can be easily removed. Then throw into a bowl of cold water. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, two tablespoons flour, and stir over the fire until well mixed. Then pour in half pint clear broth and continue to stir while99 vegetables. boiling. Season with salt, throw in the chestnuts; keep them simmering at the lire until soft. Serve with turkey. They are delicious. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. GREEN CORN CUSTARD. Cut corn from ears to make one cupful. Add four eggs beaten slightly, half teaspoon salt, dash of paprika, a few drops of onion juice and a quart of milk. Bake in buttered molds in hot water. When firm, turn from the molds and surround with sprigs of parsley. Serve with cream sauce. Mrs. Hugh W. Vail. CORN OMELET. Cut and scrape the pulp from boiled corn, of which use one- half cupful to three eggs, one teaspoonful of butter cut into bits, one-half teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Beat to- gether well, and cook as a plain omelet. Mrs. H. W. Keff. CORN OYSTERS. One pint grated corn, one small teacup flour, half cup but- ter. Season to taste; mix well and fry a light brown. Mrs. Sumner P. Hunt. SCALLOPED CORN. Take six ears of corn, or more, according to size of family; draw a sharp knife through each row of corn lengthwise; then cut and scrape out the pulp. Take a layer of corn, season with butter, pepper and salt; then a layer of cracker crumbs, then corn, and season, the last layer cracker crumbs. Fill bake-dish with sweet milk, just so you can see it up to crumbs. Bake one-half hour. Canned corn can be used. Mrs. M. A. Lewis. CRAB LAUDERS. To be served as a vegetable. Line small tart or muffin tins with a rich pastry; fill with sweet potato which has been boiled tender, mashed and seasoned with a liberal allowance of but- ter, salt and a small quantity of sugar. Cover with the pastry. Crimp edges, perforate the top covering the same as an ordi- nary pic. Bake until a nice brown. Mrs. M. T. Allen.100 landmarks club cook book. baked cucumbers. Cut off the two ends of a good-sized cucumber; peel the re- maindet ; cut in half, and cut each half in two lengthwise. Par- boil the pieces in salted water. Drain them on a cloth; put them on a well buttered dish. Strew plenty of Parmesan cheese over, a little pepper and salt, and over all a few baked bread crumbs. Bake for a quarter of an hour and serve in sauce dish. Mbs. William S. Cross. stueeed cucumbers. Take six cucumbers, cut in half lengthwise. With a sharp knife cut out all the inside. Fill with equal parts of chopped cucumber, celery and tomato. Add a quarter of chopped onion (more if preferred) and season with salt, pepper and a dash of cayenne. Mrs. Hugh W. Vail. BAKED STUEEED CUCUMBERS. This is a delicious dish, which usually finds favor with the gentlemen. Take cucumbers of fairly good size—say six to eight inches in length; cut them in two lengthwise and scoop out the inside, seeds and all, but leave the outside shell whole and thick enough to be firm. Put the seeds and pulp into the chopping bowl, and add salt and pepper, or green chile-peppers chopped very fine; tomato and bread crumbs. Chop all very fine and mix well; fill each half shell, and put plenty of butter in the stuffing and on top, so it will brown well. Bake in a hot oven for an hour. The stuffing should be very hot in sea- soning, and the cooking thoroughly done. Mrs. Mathew T. Allen. vegetable CURRY. Cut in shapes or slice the vegetables. The onions only should be fried, and the rest of the vegetables should be stewed in strong stock or cream and thickened with curry paste. When dished, the vegetables should be moist, but they should not be covered with sauce. Mrs. William S. Cross. EGG PLANT (AMERICAN) SAUTE. Peel one or two fruits and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Sprinkle with salt, and pile them one on thevegetables. 101 top of the other on the under side of a plate. Put a weighted plate on the top of the pile and let it stand for an hour to press out the juice. Then dip the slices in egg and bread crumbs, or in egg and Hour, and saute on both sides in lard or dripping. Serve hot. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. EGG-PLANT. Pare and cut into slices about a quarter inch thick, salt them and allow to remain in sieve 30 minutes; wipe dry, dip in batter and fry in boiling lard. Serve with sherry and sugar as a separate course. Mrs. E. Wolters. STUEFED EGG-PLANT. Four egg-plants for eight people, three hard-boiled eggs, one tablespoon grated salt pork, three handfuls browned bread crumbs, one slice onion, two cloves of garlic, salt, red pepper and a pinch of sage. Scrape egg-plant out of shell and chop with the above ingredients (except boiled eggs); fry in a little butter for five minutes; break in one fresh raw egg; chop boiled eggs and add. Fill the egg- plant skins and cover the top with fine white bread crumbs; bake. Egg-plant must be soaked in strong salt water for sev- eral hours and the plant cut from end to end, not around. Carrie T. Waddilove. MACARONI, ITALIAN. Break quarter pound macaroni into inch length; cover with boiling water salted, boil twenty minutes, drain, pour cold wa- ter over it and drain again. Melt two tablespoons of butter, or use olive oil; heat it; cut one small onion fine, cook it slightly brown ; stir in one tablespoon flour, mix until smooth, add one cup of strained tomato; lastly add one or two table- spoons grated cheese; pour over macaroni and serve. Mrs. E. Wolters. NATIVE MUSHROOMS, IN BROWN BUTTER. Procure some large mushrooms, peel and wash carefully. Dry a little. Flave a large frying pan quite hot, and melt a little butter in it. Then place the mushrooms bottoms upwardLANDMARKS club cook book. ill the pan, and cover tightly. Cook slowly until tender. Place upon nicely cut pieces of toast. Put the pan on the front of the fire; add a large lump of butter, and cook quickly until the butter begins to brown. Add a little cayenne, a little black pepper and salt, and pour over the mushrooms. Mks. George J. Denis CURRY OP MUSHROOMS. Stew a quart of button mushrooms for twenty minutes in good soup stock to cover them well. Add a tablespoon of but- tei and thicken with teaspoon curry powder and a teaspoon of wheat flour. Boil slowly for ten minutes longer, and just before serving take from the fire and add half cup cream. Serve on very hot toast on a very hot dish. Mrs. C. F. A. Cast. STEWED MUSHROOMS. Take fresh mushrooms, peel and wash them thoroughly. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a frying pan. then throw the mushrooms in and fry for a few minutes. Put about one tablespoon of flour and brown, a pinch of salt and a small pinch of cayenne pepper; put enough water in so as not to burn, and let boil until tender. Mrs. Louis L'Chtenberoer. J NASTURTIUMS AS CAPERS. Gather the seeds (“cheeses” country children in England call them) of the nasturtiums and keep them a few days on a paper tray; then put them into empty pickle bottles, pour boiling vin- egar over them and leave them to cool. When cold, cover them closely down. Use the nasturtium leaves as sandwiches between thin bread and butter, with a little mayonnaise. Mrs. William S. Cross. OICRA. Put the young and tender pods of long white okra in salted boiling water. Use a porcelain or tin lined saucepan (as iron discolors it) ; boil fifteen minutes; take off stems and serve with butter, pepper, salt and vinegar if preferred; or, after boiling, slice in rings and season with butter, dip in batter and fry. Season and serve. Or stew an equal quantity of to-103 vegetables. matos and tender, sliced okra and one or two sliced green pep- pers, fifteen or twenty minutes. Season same with butter, pepper, salt, and serve. Mrs. Koepfli. BAKED ON TONS. Slice as for frying, season with butter, pepper and salt, bake in the oven one hour. Must be tender. Stir several times. Most delicate for weak stomachs. Mrs. M. A. Lewis. BOILED OYSTER PLANT. Scrape a bunch of tender oyster plant, putting the roots soon as scraped in cold water, to which a little vinegar has been added. Cut them in pieces, put them in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire and boil until tender; then drain. Add a tablespoon butter, cream enough to cover, seasoning of salt and pepper. Serve as soon as cream is hot. The cream may be omitted, a little flour added for thickening. Mrs. J G. Mossin. PARSNIPS "FRITTE.” Boil the parsnips till tender; drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip them into butter, then into flour, and then sprinkle with sugar. Melt two or three tablespoonfuls of dripping in a frying pan, put in the parsnips, and fry until browned on both sides. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. PARSNIPS “SAUTES.” Mash six or seven parsnips, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir in one tablespoonful of flour and one egg. Make them up into small round cakes and fry in dripping, turning occasionally, until browned on both sides. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. FRENCH PEAS. Little French peas; cut bacon in small dice, a couple of cabbage leaves chopped up and cooked together. Miss Rose Newmark. GREEN PEAS BUTTERED. Put some fresh green peas into a saucepan with a lump of butter, a little salt and a small quantity of water, cover and104 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. boil over a quick fire until tender. Knead one ounce of butter with some flour; put it in with the peas, stir them till thickened, then put in four ounces of butter broken in little pieces, one-half teaspoonful of sugar and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. 1 urn the peas out on to a dish, garnish with sippets of fried bread, and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. STUBBED bell peppers. Take twelve large peppers; wash and cut off the stem end, saving the ends to be replaced when the peppers are stuffed; remove the seed carefully, saving the seed of four. For the stuffing use one loaf of bread, removing the crust; cut in small dice-like pieces and moisten with cold water; mix with this three eggs well beaten, two tablespoons bujtter, salt and pep- per to taste; chop two onions fine with a few sprigs of pars- ley and the seeds of the four peppers; the white meat of one cooked chicken chopped fine; pare and squeeze out the seed of two medium-sized tomatos; chop them fine; six ears of corn cut from the cob; mix all the ingredients together thor- oughly; then stuff the peppers and put in each pepper four olives; place the top of the pepper on again and tie with a piece of twine around the pepper; place peppers in a covered dish, which has been thoroughly greased, and hake in the oven for one hour or until the peppers are well done; remove the strings and serve hot. Miss. L- Blackford. STUBBED CHILE PEPPERS. Slice nice, smooth, sweet peppers; lay them on top of the stove to blister; turn frequently. Skin them, then slit them along the side. Take out the seeds and fill each pepper with grated cheese. Dip in a thin hatter made of milk, flour and eggs. Fry in hot butter. Serve immediately. Use Eastern cheese Miss Elisa Bonsall. STUBBED GREEN PEPPERS. Wash ten or a dozen large green peppers; put them into boiling water, and boil for five minutes. Then take them from the water and remove the skins by rubbing with a wet105 VEGETABLES. cloth. Cut off the stem ends, remove the seeds with a large spoon, and stuff the peppers with any kind of minced cold meat, mixed with an equal quantity of stale bread moistened with cold water, and properly seasoned with salt. Replace the stems, set the peppers in a deep earthen dish or plate, pour in as much cold gravy as the dish will hold, and bake them in a moderate oven for half an hour. They may be stuffed with sausage meat and bread. Cheese may be grated and mixed with bread crumbs for stuffing peppers, and they should then be fried instead of being baked. Mrs. M. J. Connell. STUFFED peppers. Six large bell-peppers, even size, three cups bread crumbs, half cup finely chopped meat, three tomatos, butter, salt, pepper. With a sharp knife cut around the stems of the peppers, mak- ing little corns; remove the seeds and fill the shells with the mixture of bread crumbs and meat; moisten with the juice and pulp of tomatos and melted butter. Replace the stems and bake about twenty minutes. MRS. H. KlRCKHOFF. STUEEED PEPPERS. Eight bell-peppers, one cup of bread crumbs wet in a little milk or stock, one cup of cooked meat chopped fine, one onion cut fine, one or two green peppers cut fine, one tomato cut in small pieces, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon salt, one tea- spoon chopped parsley, one egg. Put the peppers in a hot oven until the skin becomes scorched and easy to remove. Cut open on one side and remove the seeds and fibers, then fill. Filling: Put the onion and green peppers in the frying pan with the butter until the onion becomes a light brown ; add the tomatos and cook a little longer. Mix the meat and bread crumbs with salt, pepper and parsley. Put in the frying pan with the onion and heat through. Fill the peppers; dip them in the beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs and fry a golden brown in butter, or cook in the oven, basting often with melted butter. Mrs. Eugene o. McLaughlin.106 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. PEPPERS A LA MEXICANA. Cut out all the inside of a dozen large green peppers (not the bell-peppers). Fill with ecpial parts of cooked meat chopped fine, bread crumbs and grated cheese, well seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper (also chopped onion if desired). Bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Mrs Hugh W. Vail. PEPPERS WITH RICE AND TOMATOS. Prepare peppers as for stuffing with rice, but before filling them with this, pour over it a cupful of good tomato sauce. Stir this with the rice until they are well blended. Fill pep- pers with the mixture, put them in a vegetable dish and let them stand covered in the oven until they are hot through. Mrs. Elizabeth Shankland. POTATOS “A LA GRANDE DUCHESSE.” Take one pound of mashed potatos, add two ounces of butter, and salt to taste; one tablespoonful of powdered white sugar, and work up into a light paste, adding two well -beaten eggs. Make the paste into oval balls, roll them in melted fresh but- ter, and place them in the oven on greased paper until well cooked. Thev make a nice garnish. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. POTATO BALLS. Mince very finely some lean uncooked mutton or beef; add salt and pepper and a sahspoon of ground ginger. Make this into balls the size of a large walnut. Flave ready previ- ously some mashed potato (be very careful that there are no lumps in them). Dry and then mix with them eggs sufficient to make them into a soft paste. Now make a crust of this around the meat balls, about one-third of an inch thick, and fry in plenty of boiling butter that has been previously clarified from salt. Mrs. William S. Cross. POTATOS, MAITRE d’hOTEL. Peel and boil some carefully selected potatos, taking care not to boil too long; then drain them and let them become cold, after which they are to be cut into rather thick slices. Placevegetables. 107 in a flat stew-pan a good-sized lump of butter and dredge in a half tablespoonful of flour; stir until well dissolved and melted; then mix in gradually a breakfast cupful of broth and stir continually until boiling; then place the potatos in with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, with pepper and salt to the taste. Stew them for two or three minutes, move the pan to the edge of the fire and stir in quickly the yolk of an egg pre- viously well beaten, with a teaspoonful of cold water and a very small amount of strained lemon juice. When the egg has become thickened, turn the potatos together with their sauce on to a flat dish and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. POTATO PUFF. Two teacups mashed potatos, beaten to a cream with two, tablespoons melted butter, three eggs beaten very light, one cup cream, salt and pepper to taste. Bake in baking dish until set,,and brown; dress with parsley. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. i» POTATO PUFF. Peel and boil about six large potatos. When soft and dry, beat them briskly with a little salt and two tablespoonfuls of butter till white and creamy. Now add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. About twenty minutes before the potato is wanted whip the whites of. two eggs till firm, mix them lightly with the mashed potato, turn into a deep dish and bake till brown. If successfully managed, the potato will be light, puffy and delicious. Mrs. William S. Cross. POTATO PUFF. Cold potatos two cups, melted butter two tablespoonfuls, eggs two, milk half cup, salt a pinch. Beat in butter, salt and milk, lastly eggs; whip to a cream and bake a light brown. Mrs. Walton. STUFFED POTATOS. Choose six or eight nice, large potatos, bake until done; cut them in half, lengthwise, scoop out the inside and mash, with two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a cup of cream, the yolks of * 8108 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. two eggs beaten light; salt to taste. Whip it up lightly, 'fill the skins with this; rub over the top with melted butter and bake until hot through. Mrs. Walton. ESCALLOPED POTATOS. Butter the bottom and sides of the dish; put in a layer of sliced raw potatos. Sprinkle with pepper, salt and bits of butter. Then put in another layer of potatos, etc., until the dish is full. Pill the dish three-quarters full of milk and bake all in a moderate oven one hour. Mrs. Capen. POTATOS WALDORF. Peel and wash some potatos and then cut them round and round in curls in the same manner in which apples are peeled; place two flat stew-pans over the fire with an equal quantity of lard in each; when boiling, throw in the pieces in one of the pans and fry until just commencing to color, then remove quickly with a drainer and throw into a second pan of boiling lard. When they have become nicely browned and soft, take the potatos out of the fat, drain them for a minute or two on kitchen paper at the front of the fire; spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, pile on the potatos, dredging a small quantity of salt over them, and serve while hot. # Mrs. M. J. Connell. CANDIED SWEET POTATOS. Peel desired number of sweet potatos and boil with gener- ous quantity salt until “under done.” Put them in oven pan with bit of butter on each and baste frequently with maple syrup. In a very hot oven, it takes about fifteen minutes for them to brown properly. Mrs. E. R. Kellam. RICE. Rice one pint, tomato one (large one or one cup of canned with juice turned off), one green pepper (thoroughly seeded), half of an onion (well chopped), salt and pepper, butter two tablespoonfuls. Boil the rice well. Put the butter to brown, and then throw in the onions, then the green peppers and to- matos, and when thoroughly cooked mix well with the rice and serve hot. Mrs. Mary Longstreet.109 vegetables. rice with tomatos. Boil one cupful of rice soft in hot water; shake it now and then, but do not stir it. Drain and add a little milk in which a beaten egg has been mixed; one teaspoonful of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer for five minutes, and if the rice has not absorbed all the milk, drain it again. Put the rice round a dish, smooth it into a wall, wash it over with the yolk of a beaten-up egg, and put it into the oven till firm. Take half a bottle of tomato conserve (or the strained juice and the pulp of seven or eight tomatos), season with pepper, a little salt, sugar, and half a chopped onion; stew for twenty minutes, then stir in one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs. Stew three or four minutes to thicken, then pour the tomato into the dish in the middle of the rice, and serve. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. SAVORY RICE. One-half pound rice, one onion, three tablespoons grated cheese, three tablespoons tomato sauce, one teaspoon chopped parsley, herbs, cayenne and salt, one ounce butter. Boil the rice in water with small onion chopped fine; when tender and nearly dry stir in other ingredients. It should be stiff enough to make a mound in the dish. Serve hot. (Thyme and marjoram are the herbs used.) k Mrs. Walter Allen. RICE, SOUTHERN. In taking the quantity, remember that in cooking, rice swells to about three times its original size. Wash the rice with the hands, quickly, in two or three waters to remove the powdered starch, as that will make the rice sticky. A saucepan with about three quarts of salted water, boiling hard, should be on the hottest part of the stove. Put in it two cups of the rice. It should begin to boil again in a couple of minutes'; after it has boiled from seven to ten minutes, test it by rubbing a grain between the fingers, and if it is soft on the out- side, with a tiny hard core in the middle, pour off every drop of water, leaving it as dry as possible. Cover tightly; place on the back of the stove and let it steam for one-half hour; or it110 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. may stand longer without injury. The steaming cooks the center, and the rice should prove to be snow white and dry, so that each grain is separate. Do not stir the rice while cook- ing- This is served as a vegetable. Mrs. Williamson Dunn. RICL SPANISH. GOOD FAMILY LUNCHEON DISH. One cup rice, one large tomato, one green pepper, one large onion, one tablespoonful of lard, one teaspoonful salt. Put the lard in a spider and when hot pour the rice (dry) into it and keep moving it until the rice is thoroughly heated, but not colored. Then add three pints of boiling water in which the salt has been dissolved, then the vegetables chopped fine; let all cook together until rice is tender. More boiling water may be added should it become too dry. Mrs. Cleves Moore. RISOTTO A LA MILANESE. Take some butter or sweet oil or lard, but the former pre- ferred, when good and hot add some fine chopped onion, when brown add some chopped tomatos and half a cup of well chop- ped dried mushroom; care must be taken that the mushrooms are first soaked in warm water for at least fifteen minutes and well washed. After allowing all this to cook for about ten min- utes, add a handful of Italian rice for each person you expect to serve, a little pepper, no salt, as the cheese contains salt, and stir continually, adding now and then some chicken broth. When the rice is nearly cooked put in a handful of grated Par- mesan cheese and then serve. Louise Guasti. SOUR-KROUT. Take a dozen solid heads of cabbage, shred very fine, put in a large jar and sprinkle as much salt as would require in cooking. Use a potato masher to pack. After one head has been packed use another with same quantity of salt. When all has been packed, put a napkin over and use a plate to cover; and a weight of about six pounds to keep it well pressed. After third day wash napkin, replacing for about three weeks, when it is ready to cook.vegetables. Ill SOUR-KROUT COOKED. Put vour sour-krout on with a quart of cold water; let it come to a boil, then simmer-three hours, with a piece of pork that has been in brine three days. Wiener or Frankfurter wurst are served. They are put in a pan of boiling water and kept very hot, not to boil, for fifteen minutes; then put around the pork as garnish. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. SPINACH. Wash and pick over the spinach carefully and thoroughly, let soak in clean water until ready to cook. Put just enough water in stew-pan to cover the bottom, about one-fourth of a cup. Put in spinach, crowding down well; cook until wilted or tender, about thirty minutes, drain, put in chopping bowl, and chop very fine, return to stew-pan and dry out; add a tea- spoonful of melted butter, pepper and salt to taste; serve with hard-boiled eggs cut in slices or chopped finely, and sprinkled over the top. N. B. Tripe and spinach are very easily digested. Mrs. Henry Worthington. PLAIN SPINACH. . Boil spinach ten or fifteen minutes in just enough water to prevent burning, with a little salt. Drain, squeeze quite dry and chop fine. Put into a clean stew-pan with one ounce of butter and a little pepper. Stir over the fire until quite hot, put on a hot dish and garnish with small pieces of toast. Mrs. Walter Allen. CREAMED SPINACH. Boil spinach in very little water ten or fifteen minutes, drain Well, chop it fine and put into stew-pan with two ounces of butter, stir over a gentle fire and when the butter has dried away add a little pepper and tablespoon of boiled cream. Simmer for about five minutes. Serve with small pieces of toast. Mrs. Walter Allen. SPANISH SOUFFLE Take .a cupful of spinach prepared as in “Spinach a la Crema. Beat up one yolk of an egg, mix with the spinach and stir over the fire until the egg is set. Then let it cool, and112 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. before serving stir the well-beaten whites of three eggs lightly into it. Fill china cups, or buttered paper forms, half full; put them into a hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve at once. If too little baked, or not served at once, the souffle will be spoiled. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. SUCCOTASH. Place coin scraped from six medium sized ears (or a can of corn) in a saucepan with a pint of cooked lima beans, adding one tablespoon butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, half pint of milk. Pleat it thoroughly for five minutes, add two tablesnoons of hot bechamel sauce; stir all together. Serve very hot. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. GREEN TOMATOS SERVED AS A VEGETABLE. Six green tomatos; slice the tomatos, then roll them in flour and dip in a beaten egg. PTave the lard boiling, so that a piece of bread browns as soon as dropped in it; then drop in the slices of tomato, a few at a time, and let them remain until well cooked. Serve at once. Mrs. M. A. Wilcox. BAKED TOMATOS. Cut a half dozen tomatos in halves, remove the pips and fill the inside with a mixture of one part Parmesan cheese and two parts bread crumbs. Place a piece of butter on each half and lay them close together in a well buttered tin. Bake half an hour in a slow oven and serve. Mrs. Fred Walton. BAKED TOMATOS, STUFFED WITH MACARONI AND CHEESE. Six tomatos, as near the same size as possible, one and a half cup of macaroni, broken in small pieces; two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, any good, dry kind, but Holland cheese is the best; butter the size of a walnut, dash of paprika, salt and pep- per to taste. Cook macaroni in boiling water until soft. Cut a small opening in the top of the tomatos, remove seeds with a teaspoon, leaving as much of the pulp as possible. Fill tomatos with macaroni, add butter, salt and pepper, put cheese on last, cook in medium hot oven thirty minutes. Mrs. Henry Worthington.113 vegetables. STUFFED TO MATOS, BAKED. Choose large tomatos. Do not skin them but scoop out a small place at the top which fill with bread crumbs, minced on- ion, cayenne and salt. First fry the onions in a little butter, add the bread crumbs moistened with a little water, and sea- soned with a very little cayenne pepper and enough salt. Fill the cavities allowing the stuffing to project half an inch above the tomato and smooth it over the top. Bake. Miss Bessie Bonsall. TOMATO SOUFFLE. Take one-half pint tomato pulp that has been rubbed through a sieve; one ounce butter, two ounces grated cheese, one and a half ounce boiled macaroni, one ounce bread crumbs, one tea- spoonful made mustard; mix all together in a saucepan and stir over the fire until boiling; take from the fire, let cool; add first the yolks of two eggs and then the whites of three, with oven to bake quickly. Draw over with grated Parmesan cheese. Marie N. Griffith.CHAPTER X. EGGS BOILED EGGS. Soft-boiled eggs should have the albumen creamy, not hard. To obtain this, slow heat is required. Hence receipt No. I is recommended. No. 2 gives a soft egg, but the time is difficult to determine exactly. No. 3 gives satisfactory results. To have eggs hard, boil them for twenty-five minutes. The yolks will then be dry and mealy. When done, place them in cold water for fifteen minutes. Then roll them lightly on the table to crush the shells, which can then be peeled off easily, leav- ing the surface smooth and white. Use a sharp, thin knife for cutting them, so the pieces will be clean and smooth. No. 1 : Place the eggs in warm water, to heat the shells, so they will not crack when put into boiling water. Let the water in the saucepan boil violently; put the eggs in carefully, and when the water again bubbles, remove it from the fire; cover, and let the eggs remain in for five minutes. No. 2: Put the eggs into boiling water, and cook for three minutes, the water boiling all the time. No. 3: Place the eggs in cold water on the fire, and remove as soon as. the water boils. In these receipts have plenty of water—about a pint for two eggs. POACHED EGGS, NO. I. The white of a poached egg should be a white, translucent, jelly-like mass. To obtain this result, which makes it an easily digested food, it must cook very slowly, the water never reach- ing the boiling point. Place in a shallow pan as many muffin- rings as you have eggs to poach. Turn in enough boiling water to just cover the rings; add a little salt. When the water boils, draw the pan to the side of the range, and break an egg into each ring. It should take ten to fifteen minutes to cook the eggs to the translucent state desired. Have ready115 EGGS. even pieces of toast a trifle larger than the muffin-rings. Moisten them with hot water, and spread with a little butter. Remove the eggs carefully with a pancake turner, and place one on each piece of toast; then lift off the rings, and place a spot of pepper in the center of each yolk. Mary Ronald in “Century Cook Book.” BEATEN OMELET. Beat very light the whites of four eggs; beat until light col- ored the yolks of the four eggs; add three tablespoonfuls of milk, a speck of pepper, a sprinkle of salt. Pour this mix- ture into the beaten whites, and fold—not stir—slightly to- gether. Put into an omelet-pan a tablespoonful of butter; when melted and hot, pour in the eggs. As soon as set, shake slightly all the time, until firm; with a buttered knife keep the edge of the omelet from sticking to the pan. When firm and brown upon the bottom, place in a hot oven for about three minutes to thoroughly cook the top. When finished, turn once, put on a hot platter, and serve immediately. For a sweet omelet, add a tablespoonful of sugar, and omit pepper. Variations are made by spreading an omelet, just before turning, with chopped meat of any kind, with tomato, or with jelly. ANCHOVY EGGS. Boil eggs, halve and take out yolks. Mix with a little an- chovy-paste. Put mixture back into the white parts of the eggs, and skewer together with toothpicks to keep firm. Dip in beaten eggs and bread crumbs twice. Drop into boiling lard, brown and serve at once. Kate S. Vosburg. ANCHOVY WITH POACHED EGGS. Cut slices of bread round with a biscuit cutter; toast a light brown ; spread with anchovy paste. Poach eggs to cover the spread toasts. Serve very hot. Mrs. a. Haas. BAKED EGGS. Ingredients: Six eggs, one teacupful of rich gravy, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and mushrooms mixed, bread crumbs.LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Mix the parsley and mushrooms with part of the gravy, sea- son with pepper and salt. Pour into a pie dish and place in the oven till it begins to bubble. Break the eggs carefully in, strew bread crumbs over, and return the dish to the oven for three minutes. W arm and pour in the rest of the gravy. Strew over a few more bread crumbs, and bake until the eggs are set. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. BAKED EGGS (MEXICAN). Use an earthenware pie plate of the old fashioned kind, or a regular porcelain flat dish for baking eggs. Let it heat slowly; have ready one small onion, minced very fine with some parsley and other sweet herbs, if preferred, and a green chile. Put into the hot dish with a heaping tablespoonful of butter. Mix, then drop in carefully, so as not to break them, enough eggs to cover the bottom of the dish; put in one by one, and bake until the whites are set. They can be cooked on the top of stove, using an asbestos cover if over gas. Mrs. Gilbert E. Overton. COLUMBUS EGGS. Take eight fine green peppers, large enough to contain one eeg each; cut off the tops and empty them well, being care- ful to extract every seed; stand them upright in a saute-pan, and break an egg into each one, then set the pan in the oven for eight or ten minutes. Take out, lay the peppers on toasts and pour a little tomato sauce around. Mrs. M. J Connell. CURRIED EGGS. Ingredients: Eight eggs, three-quarters pint of milk, one large Spanish onion, one teaspoonful of sugar, one tablespoon- ful of curry powder, one tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, one lemon. Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them into cold water and take off the shells. Cut off the ends to allow them to stand. Slice the onion and fry it white in the butter. Mix the flour and curry powder smoothly in a little of the milk, then boil them with the remainder, the onion, juice of the lemon, sugar,117 EGGS. and a little salt and pepper, for two hours. Strain it through a sieve. Dress the eggs on a dish, pour the gravy round them and serve with a wall of boiled rice. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. CURRIED EGGS. Shred finely two onions and fry in fat till lightly browned; add one dessertspoonful of flour, a little salt and one table- spoonful of curry powder, then gradually about a half pint of good stock. Stir till it boils, and put two or three tablespoon- fuls of cream with it. Poach four eggs, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them and garnish with fried bread. F. S. C., England. EGGS AND CREAM. Ingredients: Six eggs, one pint of cream. Boil the cream until it is reduced to half, then pour it into a deep dish. Break the eggs carefully in it, keeping them sep- arate; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and when they are set, serve with croutons of fried bread. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. EGGS AND CREAM WITH MUSHROOMS. Ingredients: Six eggs, half pint of cream, half pound of mushrooms, one ounce of butter. Boil the cream until it is reduced to half, then pour it into a dish. Break the eggs carefully and separately in it, and place in a moderate oven. When the eggs are set, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fry the mushrooms in the butter, sea- son with pepper and salt, and dress them round the eggs. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. FRENCH EGGS. Boil hard six eggs; cut lengthwise, remove the yolks, place the whites on a platter to keep warm. Mince half an onion, a small bunch of parsley. Mash the yolks smooth, add the onion, parsley, salt and a little vinegar to taste. Fill each half of the white with the above, then pour over drawn butter or white sauce. Miss Maurice.118 landmarks club cook book. WHITE SAUCE FOR FRENCH EGGS. Four tablespoonfuls flour, two tablespoonfuls butter, mixed smooth; pour on boiling milk (or water can be used, or the two mixed) until the right consistency; a little vinegar and salt to taste. Garnish dish with parsley. Miss Maurice. FRIED EGGS WITH RAGOUT OF MUSHROOMS. Ingredients: Eight eggs, one pound of mushrooms, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of vinegar, one bunch of parsley, two green onions. Skin the mushrooms, and if they are very large, cut them into slices. Chop the onions and parsley very fine ; melt part of the butter in a stew-pan, and add the parsley, onion and vinegar, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt and a very little sugar. Break two of the eggs, and moisten the yolks with a table- spoonful of cold water add the rest of the butter, and stir all into the onion and parsley. Add the mushrooms gradu- ally, and stew gently for ten minutes; place the ragout on a dish, and keep it warm. Fry the remaining eggs in hot but- ter or fat; dress them over the ragout, and serve. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. FRIED EGGS WITH TOMATOS. Ingredients: Six eggs, six tomatos. Break the eggs carefully into a pan filled with boiling oil or butter, and fry them until the whites are crisp. Divide the tomatos and fry them lightly in the butter. Place them in a dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and lay the eggs over them. Serve very hot. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. EGGS A LA GITANA. Ingredients: Eight eggs, two onions, one dessertspoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, one gill of stock. Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them into cold water, and take off the shells; cut them into large dice. Slice the onions very thin, and fry them in the butter. Mix the flour in the stock, add to the onions, and stir until it boils.' Put119 EGGS Miss H. Knickerbocker. the eggs into the sauce, and warm them through. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. EGGS IN GREEN PEPPERS. Use large green peppers; wash them, and with a knife cut lengthwise in two sections. Remove the seed and invert on a sieve to drain. Sprinkle a few buttered crumbs in each pep- per, or minced ham and crumbs moistened with cream. Break an egg carefully in each half pepper, season lightly with salt and pepper and bake until the white of the egg is set. Serve on rounds of bread lightly browned in butter. A good luncheon dish. Mrs. A. Petsch. EGGS WITH TOMATOS. Ingredients: Four eggs, one pound of tomatos, two ounces of butter. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the tomatos, sliced; sea- son with salt and pepper, and stew until they are tender. Beat the eggs and stir them in. When the mixture has thickened, pour it upon hot buttered toast. It must be stirred the whole time. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. EGGS AL POMODORO. Put a little sweet oil and butter into a frying pan; when good and hot, put in a slice of mashed garlic, not chopped; let it remain in until brown, so as to flavor the oil and butter, then remove it and add some chopped tomatos. When cooked, add well beaten eggs, with a little pinch of pepper (no salt), a little of the grated Parmesan cheese, and stir constantly for about two minutes. Serve immediately. Louise Guasti. EGGS POACHED IN CHILE. Grease your skillet, put in about a quart of boiling water, two or three tablespoonfuls of chile and plenty of salt. Drop in as many eggs as you wish to serve. When done take up with a skimmer, pour off some of the chile, if there seems to be too much for the quantity of eggs; mix a tablespoonful of flour with enough butter to make it smooth; stir in the chile, and when thick pour it over the eggs. Serve on toast.120 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. SCALLOPED EGGS. Eight eggs boiled hard and chopped fine, half onion grated, an equal amount of fine bread crumbs as chopped eggs. Mix and season with salt and pepper. Put in baking dish, cover with milk, bits of butter on top. Bake twenty minutes. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. SCRAMBLED EGGS AND MUSHROOMS. After scrambling the eggs, which have been seasoned with cream, salt and pepper, add the mushrooms. The quantity of mushrooms should equal that of the eggs—half and half. Cook all together a moment longer; season to taste, and serve hot on toast. Mrs. Von Schmidt. CHEESE OMELET. Four eggs, six soda crackers, half a cup of grated cheese. Break the crackers into small pieces, pour enough boiling wa- ter or milk over them to soften them; beat the eggs well, sepa- rating whites from yolks if vou like the omelet very light; put in the crackers; lastly add the cheese. Have the butter or other fat very hot and fry light brown; turn over and fry the other side. It can be baked in hot oven also. Stale bread, soaked in cold water and crumbled up, may be substituted for crackers. Miss Flora Golsh. OMELET WITH KIDNEY. Boil a mutton or other kidney, and when cooked, cut it into thin slices. Beat six eggs together with one tablespoonful of flour and one teacupful of milk, seasoning with a little grated nutmeg and salt. Melt a piece of but- ter in a frying pan, pour in the omelet mixture, and stir it over the fire until it is firm; then lay the slices of kidney on top, and fold it over. When cooked, slip the ome- let on to a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded nap- kin, and serve at once. Mrs. M. J. Connell. RUM OMELET. Break six eggs into a bowl, and add two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt; beat with a fork for a moment only. Put two tablespoonfuls ofEGGS. 121 Miss H. Knickerbocker. "butter into an omelet-pan; melt the butter without burning it, pour in the eggs, and shake the pan (or use a fork) to detach the cooking egg from the side of the pan. Continue until all the egg is partly set, then fold the omelet; let stand a moment to brown delicately, then turn on to a serving-dish. Pour half a cup of hot Jamaica rum over the omelet; set on fire and serve at once. Miss M. T. Etchkmendy. CHERRY OR APPLE OMELET. One cup of flour, with milk, beaten stiff; then add two or three eggs (according to quantity) ; then thin batter with milk like tender pancake dough. Into this put a little salt and quarter cup sugar. Prepare pint seeded cherries or fine chopped apples. Put half tablespoon lard and half tablespoon butter in a shallow skillet, and heat. Into this pour cherries or apples, and quickly pour batter over. This will get nicely done in a few minutes. If necessary to brown on top, throw on plate and back into hot fat, or put in oven for a few min- utes. Serve with fruit on top and sprinkle generously with sugar. Nice luncheon dessert, and very quickly made with apples. Mrs. Koepfli. TORTAS DE HUEVOS. Six eggs, one onion chopped very fine, half cup flour, one level teaspoonful baking powder, half pound mild cream cheese. Cut the cheese in thin squares; beat the eggs as for omelet, add flour and onion, beat lightly, then add baking powder and salt; drop in piece of cheese. Have ready a pot of hot lard, as for croquettes; use a large kitchen spoon. Take up one piece of cheese at a time with as much of the egg mix- ture as the spoon will hold; drop into fat. When all are cooked, pour over chile sauce, as given below. CHILE SAUCE. Chop one onion very fine, fry until done; stir in two table- spoonfuls of red chile and a tablespoonful of flour; to this add boiling water until you have a nice thick gravy. The on- ion may be omitted. In that case, have your grease hot and stir in your flour and chile. When smooth, add water.CHAPTER XI. # CHEESE. CHEESE BALLS. One cup of grated cheese (old), whites of two eggs, beaten stiff. Mix cheese and whites; add a pinch of red pepper and a little salt. Make into balls as large as walnuts, roll in fine bread crumbs and fry in deep fat in a basket. Serve very hot. This makes about ten balls. Serve with this, lettuce and French dressing. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. CHEESE BALLS. Mix one and a half cups grated cheese, one tablespoonful flour, a little salt, a few grains of cayenne, and the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff. Shape in small balls, roll in cracker crumbs, dip them in the yolks of the eggs wen beaten, then roll again in cracker dust; fry in deep fat and drain on brown paper. Mrs. E. A. Padgham. CHEESE BALLS. One pint of fresh milk, one tablespoon of butter, three heap- ing tablespoons of flour, three heaping tablespoons of grated cheese, pepper and salt to taste; scald the milk, mix the flour into the hot butter, put grated cheese into milk, and when dis- solved, add butter and seasoning; stir until thick and smooth; pour on platter and set on ice. When stone cold, roll as cro- quettes in egg and bread crumbs in small balls the size of English walnuts, and fry in hot lard. They must be very soft. Use only Edam cheese, if possible. If not very strong, use more than three tablespoons. Mrs. W. F. Hook. CHEESE BISCUITS. Two ounces of flour, pinch of salt and cayenne. Rub into it two ounces of butter; add two ounces of grated cheese;CHEESE. 123 mix with the yolk of an egg and a squeeze of lemon juice to a very stiff paste. Roll very thinly; stamp into small round biscuits and bake for a few minutes in a moderate oven. Be- fore serving, place in the center of each biscuit a little pyra- mid of whipped cream, flavored with cheese. Miss Kate E. Whitaker, San Francisco. CHEESE CROQUETTES. Quarter cup butter, third cup flour, three-quarters cup milk, yolks of three eggs, one and a half cups of cheese cut in small pieces, half cup Parmesan cheese, salt, cayenne, pap- rika. Make a sauce of butter, flour and milk; stir in egg yolks unbeaten ; add cheese, and cook until cheese begins to soften. Remove from stove and add seasoning. Spread in a shallow pan previously well buttered, and allow it to cool. Now cut out in strips or squares; crumb, egg and dip in crumbs again. Fry in deep hot fat and drain on cheese cloth. Serve as cheese course. Miss Kate E. Whitaker, San Francisco. CHEESE DANIETO. Take the ripest of Sierra cheeses, work it with the blade of a knife to a smooth paste. Mix with enough olive oil to make the consistency of thick cream. Mix into it plenty of paprika, until the cheese is decidedly of a red color. Serve with slices of thin bread and butter, or toasted crackers. Mrs. Hugh W. Vail. CHEESE FINGERS. Three ounces of grated cheese, three ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, half teaspoonful of baking powder, salt and cayenne to taste. Mix these ingredients to a stiff paste, with a very little milk. Roll out and cut into strips about three inches long. Roll round and bake on a tin in a brisk oven for five minutes to a very delicate brown. CHEESE FONDUE. F. S. C. One tablespoonful butter, half pint milk, one cup bread crumbs, two cups grated cheese, one teaspoonful salt, a little red pepper, a saltspoon of mustard. Mix and place over boil-124 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. ing water. When hot, stir in two well beaten eggs and cook, stirring until it thickens (about three minutes). Serve with crackers. A little Worcester sauce added is an improvement. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. CHEESE WAFERS. Half pound of rich cream cheese, one teaspoonful of dry mustard, half cup of olive oil, quarter cup of lemon juice or vinegar, half teaspoonful paprika. Mash the cheese, add oil a little at a time, beat in lemon juice and seasoning. Serve on thin wafers. Miss Anna Grichten, Sail Francisco. CHEESE PATTIES. Make from stale bread some small round croustades. Dip them in butter and brown in the oven. Fill the centers with a mixture of two ounces of grated cheese, one tablespoonful melted butter, one tablespoonful milk, a little salt and pepper. Place the croustades again in the oven to cook the cheese, and serve very hot. CHEESE SOUFFLE. One pint of milk, three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour; Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a part of the milk, then add the remainder of the milk, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Set aside to cool. Mix thoroughly the yolks of three eggs, a saltspoon of salt, one-half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a dash of red pepper, a few drops of onion juice, and one cupful grated cheese. Stir this mixture into the cooled souffle batter, fold in the well beaten whites of three eggs. Bake in cases for twenty min- utes and serve at once. Nannie M. Griffith, Johannesburg-. CHEESE RAMEKINS. Pour a cupful of boiling milk over a cupful of dry bread crumbs; when they are thoroughly soft, pour oflf the milk not absorbed. Stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter, four ounces of grated cheese, half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, salt, a pinch of cayenne and the yolks of three eggs. Mix thor- oughly, and just before baking add the beaten whites whipped to a stiff froth. Fake about twenty minutes. Mrs. E. D. Neff.125 CHEESE. Mrs. J. F. Waterman. CHEESE STRAWS. Put six heaping tablespoonfuls of sifted flour on the pastry board; make a hole in the center, and put into it two table- spoonfuls of cream, three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, four tablespoonfuls of salt, a little cayenne pepper, and the yolks of two eggs beaten light. Mix all these ingredients to a smooth paste with the tips of the fingers, roll out to a quarter of an inch thick, cut into narrow straws and bake to a light brown on a buttered pan in a moderate oven. Serve quickly on a hot napkin. Mrs. A. Petsch. CHEESE STRAWS. One cup grated cheese, one cup flour, one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon baking powder. Mix soft with a little water; add salt if desired. Roll quarter of inch thick, cut in very narrow strips, six inches long; bake in quick oven. Miss H. Knickerbocker. ENGLISH MONKEY. Half cup stale bread crumbs; soak in one cup of milk for fifteen minutes. Melt a heaping teaspoon butter, add half cup mild cheese cut fine. Stir slowly until the cheese melts. Add slowly the crumbs, to which have been added one beaten egg, salt, cayenne pepper and mustard. Cook until smooth. Serve on toast.CHAPTER XII. PUDDINGS. ANGEL PUDDING. 1 wo ounces of flour, two ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of butter melted in half pint of new milk, two eggs. Mix well. Bake in small patty pans until nicely browned, and send to table on a dish covered with a serviette. A little powdered sugar hould be sifted over each pudding and slices of lemon served with them. F S. C , England. ALMOND PUDDING. Quarter pound of flour, quarter pound butter, quarter pound almonds, three ounces sugar, nine eggs, one pint milk. Put milk and butter over fire in double boiler until it boils; take little of the milk to dissolve flour; add this to the milk, and boil until very thick. When cold add sugar, almonds, chopped fine, and eggs, yolks and whites well beaten sepa- rately. Put in a well greased pudding mold and boil one and a half hours. Mrs. Willard H. Stimson. APPLE PUDDING. Into a mixing bowl put the yolks of four eggs, beat well and add one cupful of finely chopped suet, three tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon salt, and two cups bread crumbs. Add enough milk to moisten the mixture, two tablespoons of bak- ing powder and two finely chopped apples. Mix well, put in mold and steam one and a half hours. Serve with foamy sauce. Foamy sauce for above: Cream half cup butter; add grad- ually one cup powdered sugar, one egg well beaten and two tablespoons wine. Beat while heating over hot water. Mrs. David Peacock BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. One quart milk, boiled; remove from stove and stir in seven tablespoonfuls of cornmeal, one cupful of molasses, one tea-127 PUDDINGS. spoonful salt. Half cupful cold milk, put in without stirring just before baking. Bake in slow oven. Eaten with cream if desired. Mrs. W. K. Maurice. BANANA PUDDING. Quarter box sparkling gelatine, one cup sugar, one pint milk, two gills cream, three bananas. Dissolve gelatine in half cup cold water; scald milk and sugar; thin gelatine with a little warm milk, and strain and add to rest of milk. Let simmer ten minutes. Let cool, and before it hardens add ba- nanas cut in pieces with silver knife. Whip cream and sweeten. Make day before it is to be used. bird'snest pudding. Pare and core six or seven apples, and place in a buttered baking dish. Mix five teaspoonfuls of flour with one of salt, and wet to a smooth paste with cold milk. Add the well beaten yolks of three eggs, then the whites and more milk, using one pint in all. Pour this custard over the apples and bake one hour. Serve with cream. Mrs. Capbn. BLACK PUDDING. One cupful sugar, one cupful butter, one cupful milk, half cupful molasses, three tablespoonfuls flour, eight eggs, one wineglassful brandy, half nutmeg, one teaspoon ful soda put in just before baking. Eaten with hard sauce. Miss Maurice. . BREAD PUDDING. Two cups dry bread crumbs, one cup sweet milk, half tea- spoonful soda, half cup molasses, half cup raisins, quarter cup melted butter, juice of a lemon, spice to taste, one egg. Put in a buttered dish and steam an hour and a half. Serve with hard sauce. Mrs. Ferry, Sierra Madre.' CHERRY PUDDING. Separate two eggs, add to the yolks a cup milk, stir in one and a half cups flour, one tablespoon melted butter. Beat thoroughly; add one rounding teaspoon baking powder. Stir128 landmarks club cook book. in one cup stoned cherries well floured. Then stir in well beaten whites. Turn into greased mold and steam one and a half hours. Mrs. C. F. A. Last CHESTNUT PUDDING. Boil half pint of new milk with quarter pound of loaf sugar and some vanilla. Moisten quarter pound of chestnuts (boiled and pounded to flour) with a gill of new milk; strain the boiled milk over, and put into a saucepan and stir till quite smooth. Then add the yolks of eggs well beaten and continue to stir for a few minutes. Take off the fire, and when nearly cold add half pint of thick cream; heat up for ten minutes and put into a mold and stand on ice for two hours until quite firm. f. s. c. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Five eggs, five and a half soda crackers, five tablespoons sugar, three divisions of Baker’s chocolate (unsweetened) grated. Beat the yolks and sugar well, add cracker crumbs, chocolate, and lastly whites well beaten. Boil one hour in pudding mold well greased. The chocolate must be dissolved in a little milk. Mrs. C. F. A. Last DATE PUDDING. One cup sour milk, one cup sugar or molasses, one table- spoon butter, one teaspoon soda, spices to taste and one pound dates seeded and chopped. Stir quite stiff with flour, and steam two hours. Sauce: Two eggs beaten very light with a little salt; then add two cups of sugar very slowly until foamy, then add two or three tablespoons of boiling water and one tablespoon of vanilla. Mrs. C. C. Carpenter. DATE PUDDING. One pound of dates (stoned), quarter pound flour, quarter pound suet, quarter pound sugar, half a grated nutmeg, one wineglassful of rum. Boil in cloth for three hours. Kate E. Whitaker.PUDDINGS. 129 DELICATE PUDDING. Half cup butter, one cup sugar, half cup milk, one and a half cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Stir in flour and milk, baking powder and well beaten eggs. Boil in a mold for half hour. Place in a dish and pour around it a custard made of the yolks of two eggs, one pint milk and sugar and seasoning to taste. Whip whites of eggs with two tablespoons powdered sugar. Drop this on a custard so as to form nests, and in each place a bit of currant jelly. Blanch almonds and stick in top of the cake. Mrs. Sumner P. Hunt FARltfA PUDDING. Four tablespoonfuls farina; boil until quite soft. Take it from the fire and add one tablespoonful of butter. Sweeten to taste. When cool heat yolks of four eggs and add to it. Beat the whites with eight tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and the juice of one lemon to a stiff froth. Put the pudding thus prepared in a dish and spread the whites of the eggs evenly over the top. Cover with a piece of paper and bake a light brown. Mrs. L. W. Blinn. FIG PUDDING. One cup molasses, one cup chopped suet, one cup milk, three and a fourth cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, teaspoon cinnamon, half teaspoon nutmeg, one pint of figs. Mix molasses, suet, spice and figs chopped fine. Dissolve soda in tablespoon hot water and mix with the milk, and add to other ingredients. Beat the eggs light, then add them and the flour and beat thoroughly. Put into one large mold or two small ones and steam five hours. Sauce for above: Half cup butter, one cup powdered sugar, quarter cup cream or milk, four tablespoons wine or one tea- spoon vanilla or lemon extract. If vanilla or lemon is used, add four tablespoons cream. Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually; when light and creamy, add the wine, and then the cream, a little at a time. Place bowl in basin of hot water and stir until the same is smooth and creamy, no longer. Mrs. Arthur Wells.130 landmarks club cook book. FIG PUDDING. One pound of chopped figs, quarter pound of bread crumbs, quarter pound of flour, half pound of suet, one tablespoon- ful of brown sugar, one wineglassful of rum. Boil in cloth for three hours. K. E. Whitaker. INDIAN PUDDING. One quart of sweet milk, scald, stir in one cup of corn- meal while the milk is boiling. Cook a few minutes and let stand until nearly cold. Add half cup molasses, four well beaten eggs, quarter cup butter, a little ginger, salt and cin- namon. Bake slowly an hour and a half. When it has baked a half hour, stir in a cup of cold milk. Serve with hard sauce. Mrs. Ferry, Sierra Madre. KING OF PUDDINGS. Half pound of bread crumbs, half pound of suet, half cup of sugar, rind and juice of one lemon, two tablespoonfuls of orange marmalade, half teaspoonful of baking powder, speck of salt, three well beaten eggs. Steam four hours. Kate E. Whitaker. LEMON PUDDING. One cup of sugar, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls corn- starch, two lemons (juice of both, rind of one), one pint milk, two tablespoonfuls butter. Heat the milk to boiling and stir in the cornstarch wet with a few spoonfuls of cold water. Boil five minutes, stirring constantly. While hot, mix in the butter and set it away to cool. Beat the yolks light and add the sugar, beating very thoroughly before putting in the lemon juice and grated rind. Beat this to a stiff cream and add gradually to the cornstarch and milk when the latter is cold. Stir all smooth, put in a buttered dish and bake. Eat cold. Mrs. F. H. Smith. LEMON TAPIOCA PUDDING. Soak over night a cup of large tapioca in a pint of water. In the morning make a rich lemonade with three juicy lemons and a pint of water, sweetening to taste. Put lemonade with tapioca, and boil until clear; if too thick, add more water.PUDDINGS. 131 Peel the lemons very thin, cut the peel into straws, boil until tender, drain off the water and add to the tapioca when nearly done. To be eaten cold with cream. Mrs. W. H. Maurice. ORANGE PUDDING FANCATELLI. Put the strained juice of ten oranges and the rind of three rubbed on lumps of sugar, into a basin with six ounces of bruised ratafias, six ounces of sugar, one pint of cream, ten yolks of eggs and six whites whipped. Add a pinch of salt and a little grated nutmeg. Work these ingredients together for five minutes with a whisk, and then pour the mixture into a pie dish already furnished with a thin border of puff paste around the rim, reaching half way to the bottom. Shake some bruised ratafias over the surface and set the pudding in a baking tin and bake for about half an hour, till it is light brown color. Phyllis Brown, England, 1879. ORANGE PUDDING. Take three ounces of stale cake crumbs (ratafias or stale sponge biscuits will do), rub them through a sieve and put with them two ounces of sugar, the grated rind of two oranges and the juice of three. Pour on half pint of milk, the yolks of three and the whisked white of one egg. Line a pie dish with a little good pastry, pour in the mixture and bake till set and a light brown. Phyllis Brown, England, 1879. ORANGE SAUCE FOR PUDDING. Soak thin orange rind in syrup till the latter is pleasantly flavored. Add orange juice and thicken with arrowroot. Phyllis Brown, England, 1879. ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING. Three eggs beaten separately, their weight in flour, weight of one in sugar, two ounces of butter, half teaspoon soda, dis- solved in two teaspoons milk, two large tablespoons orange marmalade, cream, butter and sugar. Add marmalade, yolks of eggs, flour, whites and soda. Boil in a mold two hours, or bake in an Aladdin oven. j. f. w.132 landmarks club cook book. PEACH PUDDING. One egg, half cup of milk, butter size of an egg, third cup of sugar, enough flour to make a stifif batter, heaping teaspoon baking powder. Butter a pudding dish, put in a layer of batter, then a layer of fruit, filling the dish, leaving a layer of butter on top. Steam one hour. Lemon sauce for above: One cup of sugar and third cup of butter, creamed, a heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch wet with a little water, two cups of boiling water poured over it. Cook till clear and pour over the creamed sugar. Add juice of a lemon and one egg beaten separately, the yolk, then the white. Mrs. Ferry, Sierra Madre. PEACH PUDDING. Slice up peaches in buttered pudding dish and sweeten; then make batter of one cup sour cream, one egg, one teaspoon of soda, a little salt and flour enough for stiff batter. Pour over peaches and bake. Eat hot with cream. Mrs. H. Knickerbocker. PEPPER PUDDING. An excellent pudding to be eaten with hot leg of mutton is pepper pudding, “a Kentish dish.” This is simply an or- dinary or a rolled suet pudding with the addition of pepper, a teaspoonful to half a pound of flour, to be well mixed with the flour and suet dry. Add more salt than usual. Mrs. William S. Cross. PHELAN PLUM PUDDING. Two cups sugar, six eggs, one pound beef suet, one pound raisins, one pound currants, quarter pound citron, lemon and orange peel mixed together, one tablespoonful allspice, cloves, ginger, three teaspoonfuls cinnamon, two nutmegs grated, tea- spoonful salt, one quart flour. Mix with rum or brandy, and boil from four to six hours. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. PINEAPPLE PUDDING. One cup grated pineapple, one cup of water, juice of one lemon, whites of five eggs, a level teaspoonful cornstarch.PUDDINGS. 133 Take pineapple and water and put over slow fire. When boiling, mix cornstarch with a little water, stir in the mixture and boil slowly twenty minutes. Then add juice of one lemon, sugar to taste. Whip whites of eggs stiff, and then beat thoroughly into the hot mixture until white and foamy. Put in molds. Serve with whipped cream flavored with vanilla. Mks. J. G. Chandler. PINEAPPLE PUDDING. Line a dish with rich pastry, peel and grate a large pine- apple. Weigh the pineapple after it is grated and allow an equal weight of sugar, and half the weight of butter. Mix the butter and sugar to a cream, beat in the yolks of five eggs, then add the grated pineapple and half pint of cream. Last of all, beat the five whites to a stiff froth, mix them lightly with the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into the pastry- lined dish. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is done. Serve hot. Mrs. Stephen M. White. ' PLUM PUDDING. One teacup suet chopped finely; add salt; one cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup sweet milk, one cup syrup, flour to make a stiff batter, one teaspoonful each of all kinds of spices, one wineglass brandy. Steam three hours. Mrs. Kemp. POTATO PUDDING. Rub eight boiled potatos, then add six yolks of eggs, thirty- five gramms granulated sugar, finely cut peel of half a lemon, thirty-five gramms of finely chopped almonds, foam of six whites of eggs. Put in a well greased pan and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Let it bake slowly until done. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. PKUNE SOUFFLE. Take one dozen large prunes, well stewed, peel and mash fine, whites of four eggs beaten stiff, add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, mix all together thoroughly. Put in a buttered pan and bake for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot with whipped cream. Mrs. Harriet S. Bishop.134 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. PRUNE SOUFFLE. Whites six eggs, scant small cup sugar, quarter teaspoon- ful cream of tartar mixed into the sugar, half dozen large prunes cooked in sweetened water until filled out. Beat whites very light, scatter in the sugar, continuing to whip, and then prunes chopped quite fine. Turn lightly into unbuttered pud- ding dish and bake about twenty minutes in very moderate oven. Serve hot with whipped or plain cream. Enough for four persons. Mrs. E. R Kellam. PRUNE SOUFFLE. Stew fifty large prunes; let them simmer until the juice is cooked away. Let them cool, stone them and rub through a colander. Whip the whites of five eggs very stiff, add half a cup of sugar and mix with the prunes. Bake in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. Mrs. Von Schmidt. ROTHE GROETSE. Put to soak for two hours one cup of sago. Put to boil one quart of water, half pint of currant juice, and two cups of sugar. When boiling add sago. Stir constantly. If nec- essary, add sago to the consistency of ordinary pudding. Pour in molds and when cold serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Alfred J. Bayes. SCALLOPED APPLES. Six large sour apples, one pint stale bread crumbs, half cup sugar, grated rind of half a lemon, juice of one lemon, one tablespoon butter, half cup water; chop apples fine. In baking dish put layer of bread crumbs, layer of apples, last layer bread crumbs. Put bits of butter over the top, and over all pour the liquid ingredients, mixed together. Bake one hour. Miss Ellis. SNOW PUDDING. Half box gelatine, one cup cold water, two cups boiling water, one cup granulated sugar, half cup powdered sugar, third cup wine, juice of two lemons, juice and graited rind of one orange, whites of three eggs. Soak the135 PUDDINGS. gelatine in the cold water with orange peel for one hour. Then add boiling water and granulated sugar and stir until dissolved. Add lemon and orange juice and wine, and strain into a large bowl. When it begins to thicken at the edges, beat until it is a stiff sponge with the Dover egg-beater. Then beat the whites of eggs light with the powdered sugar, add to the jelly and pour into a melon mold. j. f. w. SPANISH PUDDING. Three pints of milk, two-thirds of a box of gelatine (dis- solved in milk while heating), one pinch of salt, six eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), two cups of sugar. Add one of the cups of sugar to the beaten yolks, and add to the boiling milk; then add the other cup of sugar to beaten whites and stir into the milk, stirring constantly. Pour into molds immediately and let stand over night. Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. A. Petsch. spiced rice (Spanish). Take a cup of rice which has been boiled and seasoned with a little butter, milk and salt. Sweeten well and beat in two eggs. Put in a little ginger and one-half teaspoonful each of ground clove and cinnamon. Make a custard of two cups of milk, sweeten and thicken with a little cornstarch. Mix together and bake in a buttered pan. Sauce: Take three tablespoonfuls of butter and a scant cup of pulverized sugar; beat to a cream and stir in gradually one- third of a cup of good brandy. Grate in a little nutmeg and flavor slightly with vanilla. Carmen Vibiana Pray. SPONGE PUDDING. One pint milk, two tablespoons each butter and flour creamed. Six eggs, not quite a cupful of sugar. Heat in a double boiler and thicken with creamed flour and but- ter. Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together, add to the hot, thickened milk and let cook for about two minutes. Beat this mixture into the stiff whites of eggs, and turn the whole into a buttered pudding dish; set the pudding dish in136 landmarks club cook book. a pan of water and bake forty minutes in moderate oven. Should be eaten at once. Sauce: Two tablespoons each butter and sugar, two tea- spoons flour, creamed together. Into this pour one cup boiling water and add flavoring. Miss Rose Newmark. SOUR CREAM PUDDING. Yolks of four eggs, three tablespoonfuls sugar together first; three tablespoonfuls sifted flour, a very large cup of thick sour cream, juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of brandy, whites of eggs to snow, a tiny pinch of salt, hake one-half hour before eating, in a buttered souffle pan. (It must be served from the dish it is baked in.) Sauce: Yolks of two eggs, a little sugar, sweet cream, va- nilla ; whites to snow. Mrs. a. Haas. SUGAR FLAKE PUDDING. Six eggs, four tablespoons of granulated sugar. Beat whites of eggs very stiff, then add sugar, then yolks, beaten just enough to mix thoroughly. Put in a pudding dish, sprinkle little sugar on top and bake for half an hour with slow fire. Sauce: Small cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, one egg, one teaspoon flour or cornstarch, one teaspoon vanilla; beat all well together, then add one cup boiling water and vanilla and little wine or brandy. Mrs. Wilurd H Stimson. THANKSGIVING PLUM PUDDING. Three cups shredded wheat biscuit crumbs, one cup entire wheat flour, half cup butter, two cups chopped raisins, two cups chopped apples, half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon cin- namon and nutmeg (mixed), three-quarters cup molasses, three-quarters teaspoon soda, one pint sweet milk, one tea- spoon baking powder, three eggs. Rub butter to a cream, add biscuit crumbs, flour and baking powder. Now put in flavor- ings, salt and fruit and mix. Stir soda and molasses together and mix that in crumbs, etc. Beat up eggs, mix milk with them and stir them thoroughly into pudding. Pour into well buttered mold, cover closely and steam four hours. Take out and serve with hard sauce. Miss Kate E. Whitaker.137 PUDDINGS. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. VIRGINIA PUDDING. Five eggs, reserving whites of three for sauce, one pint of milk, one gill of cream or an ounce of butter, three table- spoonfuls of flour, a little salt. Bake one-half hour. Sauce: Beat the whites of the three eggs to a froth with one-half pound of sugar, flavor with wine or lemon. The sauce is to be poured over the pudding just before serving. Serve cold. Mrs. J. B. Duke. WALNUT PUDDING. Yolks of six eggs beaten fifteen minutes with two cups powdered sugar, three quarters cup of farina, one quarter cup bread crumbs, one cup chopped walnuts, lastly the whites of six eggs beaten stiff and folded in. Bake in two layers thirty minutes, in a moderate oven. Whip one pint of sweet cream, sweeten to taste, put between layers and on top.CHAPTER XIII. PASTRY. If pastry is to be served, have it of the best—light, flaky and tender. To pastry belongs, first, puff paste; second, plain paste. Puff paste, which to many seems so difficult of preparation, is rarely attempted by any except professionals. As a matter of fact, one who has never handled a rolling pin is less likely to fail, under the guidance of a good teacher, than an old cook, who finds it difficult to overcome the bad habit of using too much force in rolling. It is necessary to work rapidly and with a light touch. A cold room is of great advantage. For making pastry, pastry flour and the best shortenings, thoroughly chilled, are essential. Its lightness depends on the amount of air enclosed and expansion of that air in bak- ing. The flakiness depends on the kind and amount of short- ening used. Lard makes more tender crust than butter, but lacks flavor which butter gives. Puff paste is usually short- ened with butter, though some chefs prefer beef suet. Butter should be washed if pastry is to be of the best, so as to remove salt and buttermilk, thus making it of a waxy con- sistency, easy to handle. Rules for washing butter. Scald and chill an earthen bowl. Heat palms of hands in hot water, and chill in cold water. By following these directions butter will not adhere to bowl nor hands. Wash butter in bowl by squeezing with hands until soft and waxy, placing bowl under a cold water faucet and allowing water to run. A small amount of butter may be washed by using a wooden spoon in place of the hands. PUFF PASTE. One pound butter, one pound pastry flour, cold water. Wash the butter, pat and fold until no water flies. Reserve two tablespoons of butter and shape remainder into a circular piece one-half inch thick, and put on floured board. Work two ta- blespoons of butter into flour with the tips of fingers of the139 PASTRY. right hand. Moisten to a dough with cold water, turn on slightly floured board, and knead one minute. Cover with towel and let stand five minutes. Pat and roll one-fourth inch thick, keeping paste wider than long, and corners square. If this cannot be done with rolling pin, draw into shape with fingers. Place butter on middle of lower half of paste; cover butter by folding upper half of paste over it. Press edges firmly to enclose as much air as possible. Fold right side of paste over enclosed butter, the left side under same. Turn paste half way round, cover, and let stand five minutes. Pat and roll one-fourth inch thick, having paste longer than wide, lifting often to prevent sticking, and dredg- ing board slightly with flour when necessary. Fold from ends towards center, making three layers; cover, and let stand five minutes. Repeat twice, turning paste half way round each time before rolling. After fourth rolling, fold from ends to center, and double, making four layers. Put in cold place to chill. If outside temperature is not sufficiently cold, fold paste in a towel, put in a dripping-pan, and place between dripping- pans of crushed ice. If paste is to be kept for several days, wrap in a napkin, put in tin pail and cover tightly, and put in cold place. If in ice box, do not allow pail to come in direct contact with the ice. TO BAKE PUEE PASTE. Baking of puff paste requires as much care and judgment as making. After shaping, chill thoroughly before baking. Puff paste requires a hot oven, the greatest heat coming from the bottom, that the paste may properly rise. While rising it is often necessary to decrease the heat by lifting covers or opening the check to the stove. Turn frequently that it may rise evenly. When it has risen to its full height, slip a pan under the sheet on which the paste is baking, to prevent burning on the bottom. Puff paste should be baked on a tin sheet covered with a double thickness of brown paper; or a dripping-pan may be used, lined with brown paper. 10140 landmarks club cook book. BEST SHORT CRUST. Two cups of flour, half teaspoonful of baking powder, half teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, one egg, three- quarters cup of butter (or butter and clarified fat), one tea- spoonful of lemon juice, enough ice cold water to form a stiff dough. Sift all the dry ingredients and rub in shortening. Beat up egg and water and add to the mixture until you get a stiff dough. Roll out on well floured board about one-sixth of an inch in thickness. Kate E. Whitaker. PLAIN PASTRY. The proportion commonly used is four cups flour to one and a half cups shortening (half butter, half lard), one level teaspoonful baking powder. About a coffeecupful of water will give the right consistency. This will make three pies. Two cups flour, scant half cup of shortening, pinch of salt, one-half teaspoonful baking powder, ice water to moisten. This amount will make one pie with two crusts. h. c. w. BERRY PIES. Line deep plates with paste, fill as full as possible with the fruit, dredge over a tablespoonful of flour and two of sugar. A little more flour and considerably more sugar for cherries or currants. Wet the edges of lower crust, press the top crust down very thoroughly. Bake about forty minutes. COCOANUT PIE. Two cups grated cocoanut, one cup sugar, one quart milk, six eggs, one pinch salt. Makes three pies, baked just like custard. Mrs. W. H. Workman. CREAM PIE. Three eggs (yolks), one pint of milk, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. Beat together sugar, yolks of eggs and cornstarch. After milk has come to a boil stir in the mixture. Add a pinch of salt and cook till thick. Take the whites of the three eggs, beat to a stiff froth with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Bake the crust before putting in the mixture. Spread whites over top and brown. Miss Whitaker.141 PASTRY. CREAM PIE. Work one tablespoonful of butter to a cream with one cup of sugar, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls flour, three cups sweet milk. Flavor to taste. Cook this in a double boiler. Beat whites of eggs with three tablespoonfuls sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Put the mixture and the whites of the eggs in the crust which has been baked, and put in the oven for a few minutes. ■* Mrs. Henry Barker. CURRANT PIE. One cup ripe currants, washed, one cup sugar, two yolks of eggs, half cup water, two tablespoons flour. Bake with one crust. Make meringue of the whites of the eggs. This is delicious. j. f. w. CUSTARD PIE. Three eggs to a pint of milk, two tablespoons sugar, a little salt. Beat yolks and whites separately, add milk, then the sugar; line a plate, fill and bake immediately. ENGLISH APPEE PIE WITPI BOIEED CUSTARD. Twelve good cooking apples, half a cup of sugar; if apples are very sour, add more; one tablespoon melted butter, half a teaspoon of lemon juice, a little grated nutmeg, half a cup of water, piecrust. Pare and slice the apples, fill a deep pie dish heaping full, put in sugar and the butter, to which the lemon juice has been added; grate the nutmeg over all. Make a good, rich piecrust of part butter and lard, line the edge of dish with crust, cover the apples over with it, brush over with egg, and cook from thirty to forty minutes in a moderate oven. Make a soft-boiled custard of three eggs to a quart of milk, add a teaspoonful of cornstarch and sugar to taste. Use any flavor- ing desired; put in small cups or glasses, and pour over pie when serving at table—one cup for each person. Have pie either hot or cold; custard must be soft and cold. Mrs. Henry Worthington. GOEDEN PIE. Juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one table- spoonful cornstarch, three eggs (beaten separately), a little142 landmarks club cook book. salt. Bake with an under crust and spread the beaten whites over the top. When done, add a little sugar to whites to make crisp. Put in oven to brown. Mrs. W. H. Maurice. LEMON PIE. One half pound butter, one pound of sugar, five eggs, two lemons, grated rind and juice. Use one crust only. Mixture makes two pies. Mrs. Barton. LEMON PIE. Grated rind and juice of one lemon, yolks of three eggs beaten light, one whole egg, one cup of water, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of cornstarch. Beat whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add three tablespoonfuls of powdered Sugar for frosting and bake a minute or two. Charlotte E. Hahn. LEMON PIE. Juice and grated rind of one large lemon, one cup sugar, one cup water, one tablespoon cornstarch, yolks of three eg^s. Cook this in a double boiler and put in the previously baked crust. Beat the whites; add two tablespoonfuls sugar and six or eight drops of vanilla. Spread on the pie and put in the oven for a few minutes. Mrs. Kemp. LEMON FILLING FOR PIE. Cream one cup sugar and one and a half tablespoons but- ter, four eggs separate; add to creamed butter and sugar. Beat well. Juice of one lemon and rind in quarter cup of water. Lastly add whites beaten well to the above mixture. Bake one-half hour in slow oven after putting this mixture into the pie crust. Mrs. C. F. A. Last. LEMON PIE. Mix to a cream the yolks of four eggs, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Set in pan of hot water and cook until thick. Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the mixture. Fill into crust and set in very hot oven for a few minutes.143 PASTRY. Make meringue by beating whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add one tablespoonful of powdered sugar and a little lemon juice. Spread over top, put in oven and slightly brown. Mrs. Walter S. Newhall. LEMON PIE. Three lemons, grated rind and juice, three cups sugar and yolks of four eggs well beaten. Stir until very light, then add the beaten whites. ■ Pour into the paste and bake in a moderate oven. The mixture will make two pies on small plates. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh. MINCE PIE. Two pounds beef heart, cooked tender, two pounds beef suet, two pounds stoned raisins, two pounds currants, four pounds apples, four pounds sugar, one quart Madeira wine, one quart brandy, the juice and rind of two oranges, one tea- spoonful each of ground mace, nutmeg, cloves, pepper and salt. Meat, suet, raisins and apples should be chopped fine and thoroughly mixed with spices and liquors. Delia Clemons. MINCE MEAT. One fresh tongue, weighing one and a half pounds, boiled, skinned, and when cold, chopped fine; two pounds of raisins, washed and stoned; three of currants, washed and dried; six large pippins, pared and chopped; the grated rind of three lemons, and juice to the taste; two pounds of sugar; half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of cin- namon, three nutmegs grated in one pint of wine, one pint of brandy and three pounds of suet, citron sliced to the taste. Mrs. Eleanor T. Brown. MINCE MEAT. One bowl meat chopped very fine, one bowl suet chopped very fine, three bowls apples chopped very fine, one bowl sugar, one bowl raisins, one bowl currants, one bowl molasses, one bowl cider, six teaspoons cinnamon, two nutmegs, two teaspoons cloves, two teaspoons salt, two teaspoons allspice, eight tablespoons brandy. Cook slowly for one hour. Mrs. J. J. Fay, Jr.144 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. MINCE MEAT. Two pounds' lean beef, one pound suet, ten pounds apples (Rhode Island Greenings preferred), one and a half pints brandy, one quart sherry, one cup vinegar, one quart boiled cider, one quart vinegar from pickled fruit, grated rind and juice of three lemons, grated rind and juice of three oranges, one pound sliced citron, two and a half pounds brown sugar or fruit syrup, two pounds raisins, three pounds currants, one tablespoonful fine salt, three tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls cloves, two tablespoonfuls allspice, one table- spoonful nutmeg, one small tablespoonful mace, half teaspoon ginger, half teaspoon white pepper. Save water meat was cooked in to wet the mixture with. This will make twenty- one pints. Mrs. Kemp. MINCE MEAT. Four pounds of lean cold boiled beef, one pound of suet chopped fine and mixed. Add twelve pounds good cooking apples, also chopped; one-half pound citron sliced, two pounds currants, three pounds stoned raisins, five pounds brown sugar, three teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, ten of ground cinnamon, five of ground mace, one teaspoonful of pepper, six table- spoonfuls of salt. Mix thoroughly, and add the juice and grated rind of three lemons, one quart each of boiled cider, molasses and brandy. Mrs. A. L. Lankkrshim. MINCE MEAT. Two pounds lean meat, one pound suet, eight good sized apples, two pounds raisins stoned, one pound Sultana raisins, one and a half pounds brown sugar, grated rind and juice of 'two oranges, same of lemon, half pound citron, one pint sherry, one pint brandy, one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon cinnamon, two teaspoons mace, one teaspoon cloves, two nut- megs. Boil the meat, and after chopping fine, add the suet and apple, also chopped fine. Dissolve the sugar in the wine and dried currants, one ounce mixed and ground spices, one-half brandy, add the rind and juice of oranges and lemons and the /spices. Pour this liquid over the meat. Mrs. Von Schmidt.145 pastry. LEMON MINCE MEAT. Boil four ripe, thin skinned lemons in one quart of water until reduced to one pint, then squeeze and strain the lemons into two pounds of powdered sugar, mince the rind and pulp of the lemons, taking care to remove all seeds; stone and chop one pound of raisins, and mince fine two pounds of suet; mix with the lemons, adding two pounds well washed and dried currants, one ounce mixed and ground spices, one-half pint of brandy, same of port wine and the water in which the lemons were boiled. The mince meat should be kept in a jar tightly covered until wanted. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. SQUASH PIE. One pint squash, one quart milk, one cup sugar, three eggs, one tablespoonful butter, a little salt, a teaspoon of lemon ex- tract. Strain the squash through a sieve, boil the milk with the salt and butter in it; mix the squash, sugar, and flavor, and poiir on gradually the boiling milk, adding last the eggs well beaten, yolks and whites together. Have the pastry ready in the tins, and bake immediately in a quick oven. TUTTI ERUTTI PIE. Line a deep dish with short pastry crust; then add pared and halved peaches, pears, plums, sliced bananas and pitted grapes, with a layer of sugar between the fruit and one table- spoon of butter cut into bits. Bake until the fruit is tender. When cool, cover with a meringue, and brown delicately in a moderate oven. Charlotte E. Hahn. RAISIN PIE. One cup stoned raisins, chopped fine, one egg, one cup sugar, one small lemon, juice and grated rind. Mix and al- low to stand an hour or more. Bake with two crusts. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh. . RHUBARB PIE. Line two pie-plates with rich pastry. Filling: Boil one quart of rhubarb with one and one-half cups of water, and two and one-half cups of sugar for fifteen minutes. Remove from the fire and add the well beaten yolks of four eggs;LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. mix well together, then pour into the pie-plates and bake in a moderate oven. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding two tablespoonfuls of sugar; apply to the top of each pie and bake until slightly brown. RHUBARB PIE. Chop very fine two cupfuls of rhubarb, pour over it suffi- cient boiling water to cover. Pet it stand two minutes, drain and add the well beaten yolk of one egg, one tablespoonful of floui, and one cup of sugar. Mix well and bake with only a lower crust. Make a meringue of the white of the egg, pour over it and brown. BANBURY TARTS. Two pounds stoned raisins, chopped fine. Add the grated rind and juice of four lemons, six eggs beaten until thick, and four cups sugar. Cut puff paste in rounds the size of a saucer, or in squares, if preferred. Put filling in center and fold edges together carefully. The mixture may be baked as a pie with two crusts, or with one. H. C. W. CHEESE TARTS. Pine some patty-pans with good pastry rolled very thin; grate two ounces of cheese and mix with it one ounce of warmed butter; add salt and cayenne and the yolks of two eggs whisked till firm, and the beaten white of one egg, which must be put in the last thing. Half fill the pastry cases with the mixture and bake in a moderate oven till the cheese mix- ture is set and the pastry slightly colored. Sprinkle grated cheese and chopped parsley on each before serving. LEMON TARTS. One lemon, juice squeezed and rind grated, three eggs, one teacup sugar, two tablespoons melted butter; mix well and bake in small tins with puff paste. MACAROON TARTS. Quarter pound of almond paste, half cup of sugar, whites of two eggs, three or four tablespoonfuls of water; grate al- mond paste, add sugar, whites of eggs and water. Put intopastry. 147 Mrs. C. C. Carpenter. shells of best short crust small teaspoonful of raspberry jam; then spread over it one teaspoonful of paste (cover the jam). . Dust powdered sugar over and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Kate E. Whitaker. SAND TARTS. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three cups of flour, two eggs, leaving out the white of one. Roll out thin and cut in squares. Spread the white of egg on top, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and press a bleached almond or raisin in center.CHAPTER XIV. DESSERTS. frozen desserts. SUGGESTIONS FOR FREEZING. Pour the mixture that is to be frozen into the tin can, put the beater in this, and cover. Place in the tub, being careful to have the point on the bottom fit into the socket in the tub. Place on the cross-piece, and turn the crank to see if every- thing is in place. Next conies the packing. Ice should be broken in large pieces, put in a canvas bag and pounded fine. Put a thick layer in the tub; then a thin layer of salt. Continue until the tub is full, and pack down solid with a paddle or a piece of wood. Turn a few times and add more ice as the mass settles. Re- member that if the freezer is packed solid at first, no more ice or salt is needed. The water should not be let off, as it is one of the strongest elements in the freezing. Turn the crank for twenty minutes—not fast at first, but very rapidly the last ten minutes. Turn back the cross-piece, wipe the salt and ice from cover, and remove cover without displacing the can itself. Work a large spoon up and down in the mixture until it is light and the space left by taking out the beater is filled. Cover the can, cork the hole from which the beater was taken, and set the tub in a cool place for an hour or more. Miss Parloa. Any mixture to be frozen should be thoroughly chilled be- fore it is turned into the can of the freezer, lest a second sup- ply of ice be needed. A mixture too sweet will not freeze readily; a mixture that is lacking in sweetness freezes quickly, but will be coaise and granular in texture. The proportion of salt to ice affects the time required in freezing, and, incidentally, the smoothness of the product. With a freezer operated by a crank, use three measures of icedesserts. 149 to one of salt, when cream, ices and sherbert are to be frozen. Uncooked cream expands more in freezing than does cooked cream. It gives an ice of light, fluffy texture. Cooked cream loses in quality, but gives a firm, close grained ice. Al- ways scald cream in a double boiler; and it is sufficiently scalded when the water in the outside kettle boils. Ices are much better when the sugar is added in the form of syrup. A cup of syrup is equivalent to one cup of sugar. Boston Cooking: School Magrazine. Philadelphia ice creams are made of cream sweetened, fla- vored and stirred while freezing. French ice creams are custards of different degrees of rich- ness, stirred while freezing. Parfaits and mousses are whipped cream, with or without eggs or fruit juices; frozen without stirring. Water ices are fruit juices, sweetened with sugar syrup, stirred while freezing. Punches and sherbets are water ices with liquors mixed with them either before or after freezing. SYRUPS. To prepare syrups without a gauge, the following method may be employed: Put into a saucepan three and one-half cupfuls of sugar and two and one-half of water. Stir it over the fire until the sugar is dissolved. After it is boiled five min- utes from the time it is actually boiling, it will register 28° ; every five minutes’ additional boiling will thicken it one de- gree. At the end of 15 minutes it is 30° ; at the end of 25 min- utes it is 320 ; at the end of 35 minutes it is 340. For parfaits, syrup should register 20°; for water ices it should register 320, and for frozen fruits the same. The Century Cook Book. ICE CREAM. One quart pastry cream whipped, one quart coffee cream. Sweeten to taste; it is preferable to make a syrup of the sugar. Flavor with real vanilla extract. This may be used plain or as a foundation for many fruit ice creams by adding fruit or berries that have been pressed through a colander and sweet-150 LANDMARKS CEUB COOK BOOK. ened. A delicious tutti-frutti is made by using the above and adding when almost frozen, glace cherries, limes and nine- apple, nuts, etc., cut into bits. Carrie T. Waddilove. ICE CREAM. Make a foundation of one quart of milk, eight eggs, half a vanilla bean, one and a quarter cups sugar; cook until thick as cream; cool, half freeze, then add one quart whipped cream. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. CARAMEE ICE CREAM. One pint milk, two eggs, one small tablespoon flavor, one cup granulated sugar. Make like a custard. Keep this hot while making caramel. For this take one cup sugar and dis- solve on stove till it gets liquid, then stir quickly into custard while hot. If lumpy, strain. Add this to one quart cream, flavor with vanilla and freeze. Evelyn R. Kutz FROZEN PUDDING. One generous pint of milk, two cups granulated sugar, half cup flour, two eggs, two tablespoons gelatine, one quart of cream, half pound candied cherries, four tablespoons sherry wine. Let milk come to a boil; beat eggs, flour and one cup sugar together; stir into milk; cook twenty minutes; add gela- tine which has been soaked in cold water. Set away to cool. When cold, add wine, sugar and cream; freeze ten minutes, then add fruit and finish freezing. Miss H. Knickerbocker. , DEMON FRAPPE. Take two quarts of milk and let stand in ice cream freezer until as cold as it can get without freezing. Take juice of about eight medium sized lemons, one cup of sugar, and let it stand two hours. Taste and see if sweetened to your liking, allowing for milk. Then mix juice and milk and churn until frozen. Frances Widney Workman. PEACH ICE CREAM. A can of peaches run through a colander, or a quart of peaches mashed fine and sweetened to taste. Add quart of cream and freeze. Mrs. Jerry Conroy.DESSERTS. 151 PRUNE ICE CREAM. Stew one pint of prunes with two slices of lemon and one stick of cinnamon; sweeten to taste; mash through a sieve; mix with one quart of thick cream and freeze. Mrs. Ozro W. Childs. TAPIOCA ICE CREAM. Two tablespoons ground tapioca stirred into one and a half pints boiling water. Let it boil. A piece of butter size of walnut; sugar enough to make quite sweet. When part cool, stir into the mixture two well beaten eggs; any kind of fla- voring preferred. Just before putting into freezer, add one pint good cream. Mrs. H. M. Lutz. VANILLA CREAM. Put a quart of milk in a pot; add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, six tablespoons of sugar (more if desired), and allow to cook until slightly thickened. When cool, add the whites of tl^e eggs, beaten stiff. Beat briskly for two minutes, then strain and set in a cool place. When cold, add a pint of cream, whipped and sweetened. Freeze immediately. Mrs. A. P. Kerckhoff, Cov-ina. CAPE MOUSSE. Two soupspoonfuls of ground coffee. Over this pour one large cup boiling water; let stand on stove five minutes, and then strain over the well beaten yolks of four eggs, and one large cup of granulated sugar. When this is cold, add one pint of cream, whipped. Pour in mold and pack in dishpan with equal parts of ice and salt, same as ice cream. Flavor with one teaspoon vanilla. Let stand in ice five hours. This makes enough for ten people. Mrs. Robertson. MOUSSE OE CHESTNUT. With one-half pound of chestnut puree mix about six ounces of sugar flavored with vanilla; beat it well with a spoon until it is quite smooth, and then add three wineglassfuls of sweet- ened whipped cream. Pour the preparation into a dome-shaped mold previously buried in salted ice; cover the mold, solderlandmarks club cook book. Its joints with flour and water paste, and keep it in the ice for an hour. When ready to serve, dip the mold in hot water, wipe, and turn the mousse out on a folded napkin. Mrs. M. J. Connell. STRAWBERRY MOUSSE. Pour one large tablespoon of cold water over one even table- spoon of gelatine and let it stand two hours. Mash one pint of strawberries, cover with half pint of sugar and set away two hours. Then pour two tablespoons of boiling water over gelatine and stir till dissolved. Rub sweetened fruit through colander or strainer, add gelatine, and setting the bowl in a pan of ice water, stir till it begins to thicken, then stir in one pint of cream that has been whipped till it is very stiff. When thoroughly mixed pour into freezer and pack in ice for six hours. Take dasher out of freezer, as it must not be turned. Miss H. Knickerbocker. FRUIT MOUSSE. Whip a pint of cream and drain carefully. Mix with it a cupful any fruit pulp, also carefully drained and mixedbwith enough powdered sugar to give the same consistency as the whipped cream. A little vanilla if desired. Mold, seal care- fully and pack in ice and salt for three hours. CHOCOLATE PARFAIT. Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate into a saucepan with a little water, and stir until dissolved. Prepare a custard with a pint of milk, ten eggs and sugar to taste. Mix the choco- late with this, and pass the whole through a silk sieve, then place the mixture over ice, and work in a small quantity of cream and syrup. When smooth, pack it in ice for two hours. Mrs. M. J Connell. MAPLE PARFAIT—A FRENCH DESSERT. Heat one cupful maple syrup in a double boiler, then add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and stir until thick. When cold, add one quart of whipped cream and set in the freezer. Pack with ice and salt, and let it stand three or four hours. Do not turn the freezer. Mrs. L. A. Grant.desserts. 153 MAPLE parEait. Beat the yolks of six eggs until light; add three and a quarter cupfuls of maple syrup. Place the mixture on the stove and stir constantly until the eggs have thickened enough to make a thick coating on a spoon. Turn it into a bowl and beat until it is cold. It will then be very light. When thoroughly cold add one pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. Stir lightly together. Turn the mixture into a mold holding three pints, and keep in ice for four hours. Mrs. Bonsall. AMERICAN SHERBET. Secure some tin molds to imitate high-shaped wineglasses; fill them with cold, pure water; close them securely, and pack them in pounded ice. In the meantime mix in equal quanti- ties some fruit syrup, wine and orange or lemon juice. Al- most any kind of fruit syrup may be used. Pour the mixture into a freezing pot, and work it well until frozen. The sher- bet must not be frozen too firmly, yet it must be consistent enough to be piled up in pyramids in the ice glasses. When the water has frozen enough to take the form of the molds, turn it out carefully, drain out any liquid that has not frozen, and fill up the ice glasses with the frozen syrup, piling it up high. Stand the glasses on a fancy dish and pass them around. If desired, the water may be colored before being frozen in the molds, and a different color may be used in almost every mold. This will have a very pretty effect when served. Mrs. M. J. Connell. GINGER SHERBET. One quart of water, one pint of sugar, juice of two lemons, whites of two eggs, four good sized pieces of peeled ginger, two tablespoonfuls of whisky. Make a syrup of the water and sugar. When it cools, add the lemon juice, the ginger cut very fine, and the whisky; put into the freezer. When partly frozen, add the beaten whites of the eggs and finish freezing. Mrs. Prank W. King. lemon sherbet. Boil one quart of milk, with one pound of sugar. When cool, put in the freezer arid half freeze. Have ready the juice154 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. of five lemons and whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. Add a little sugar to the lemon juice. Add this mixture to the half frozen milk, and freeze solid. Mrs. George B. Sentek. PINEAPPLE SI-IERBET. One can grated pineapple, three pints water, one quart su- gar, one glass lemon juice, whites of two eggs well beaten. Boil pineapple, sugar and water for twenty minutes. When cold, add lemon juice and whites of eggs, and freeze. J. P. W., Santa Barbara. APPLE IN JELLY. Halve the apples, taking pains in coring not to break; cook quickly in boiling water, sugar, a few drops of lemon juice and peel. When cooked, remove carefully to a dish, filling the hol- lows with either currant or raspberry jelly. Cook the liquor with wine and sugar until it forms a jelly; pour over apples. Serve cold. Mrs. Mary J. Schallert. BANANA CREAM. Five ripe bananas; remove skin and pound with five ounces white sugar. Whip half pint cream to stiff froth; add the mashed fruit and half glass brandy, juice of half lemon. Mix well and add one ounce of gelatine that has been dissolved. Beat gently for a few minutes, put in mold, set on ice. Serve with whipped cream. A little chopped pineapple improves it. Mrs. E. Wolters. BANANA FLOAT. One box of gelatine dissolved in a teacupful of cold water. Boil three pints of milk with two-thirds cupful of sugar. Take enough hot milk to thoroughly dissolve the gelatine, then boil all together ten minutes. When cool, not stiff, break six ba- nanas with a fork; stir in and then put on ice. Serve with cream which has been flavored to taste. Miss Maurice. BURNT ALMOND CHARLOTTE. Dip the ends of almond wafers in caramel, then in chopped nuts. Dry and fasten one to another with caramel. Dissolve caramel in cupful of hot water, add one-third of a package155 desserts. of gelatine, half a cup of sugar and three-quarters of cup of crushed almonds. Cool. Fold in the whip from three cups of cream and turn into a mold. Mbs. Hugh W. Vail. COEEEE CREAM. * Yolks of three eggs, well beaten, with three tablespoons of fine sugar; one tablespoon cornstarch. Add little by little one pint of weak coffee. Put on stove and let come to a boil, be- ing careful to stir constantly. Let cool in small glasses and serve with whipped cream which has been slightly sweetened. Carrie T. Waddilove. DUCHESS CREAM. Three-fourths cup tapioca; soak over night in cold water, then drain off and cover with boiling water; then add two cups sugar, juice of two lemons, one can grated pineapple, and just before taking off the stove add the whites of two eggs well beaten. Serve cold with pure sweet cream. Elisabeth Kerckhoff. GOTTER SPElSA. Cook apples with sugar and white wine until you have a nice apple sauce. Place in dish macaroons or remnants of cake, spreading them with the apple sauce. Then make a corn- starch custard with two or three yolks of eggs. Whip the whites light; color with fruit coloring or syrup; pour custard over apples when cool. Lastly, pile the pink floats of egg that have been sweetened. Mrs. Mary J. Schallert. HAMBURG SPONGE. Pleat the juice of one lemon and quarter cup sugar. Add the beaten yolks of four eggs and quarter cup sugar. Cook over hot water until thick. Add quarter package gelatine softened in cold water. Reheat and fold in the beaten whites of four eggs. Pour into a'border mold. When cold, fill the center with whipped cream. Garnish with candied or fresh cherries. 11 Mrs. C- F. A. Last.156 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. LEMON CREAM SPONGE. Four eggs, one cup sugar, two lemons, quarter box of gela- tine soaked in a teacup of cold water for an hour. ‘Beat the yolks with four tablespoons of sugar, add the juice and grated rind of the lemons, two tablespoons of hot water, the balance of the sugar and place in a double boiler until it is like soft custard, adding the gelatine just before removing from the fire. When it is cold and begins to set, add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, and whip all together until smooth. Wet a mold in cold water and pour in the mixture. Serve with cream or a soft custard. This is nice molded with wine jelly. Mrs. W. H. Burnham, Orange. LEMON JELLY. Six eggs, two cups sugar, three lemons. Beat eggs until light; add sugar, juice and grated rind of lemons. Boil until thick in a double boiler. Serve with meat. Mrs. George Sinsabaugb. MARSHMALLOW DESSERT. The whites of five eggs, two-thirds cup sugar, one-third box gelatine, one-half cup cold water, one-third teaspoonful vanilla. Soak gelatine in cold water for ten minutes. Dis- solve over boiling water. Beat eggs until stiff, add sugar grad- ually, then beat in the dissolved gelatine. Flavor with va- nilla and cool in shallow pans. When ready to serve, cut into cubes and serve with plain or whipped cream. Mrs. Frederick Gay. MINT JELLY. Boil twelve sprigs mint in one pint water five minutes; strain. Soak one box gelatine in one pint cold water till soft. Add the one pint mint water juice, four lemons, one and a half cups sugar. Stir till gelatine is dissolved, then add one more pint hot water, enough green vegetable coloring—“chlorofol” —to tint green “to taste.” Set on ice till hard. Garnish with egg whites cut in eighths, and sprays of mint. Mrs. Thomas L. Foster.157 DESSERT'S ORANGE CREAM. The juice of six oranges, quarter pound of sugar, one pint of boiling water and six eggs. Beat the yolks, add sugar, or- ange juice and water. Stir over boiling water until it thick- ens. When cool, put into glasses, and on each one put the beaten whites, sweetened and flavored with a little grated rind. Mrs. Fred Walton. ORANGE FLOAT. Take two good sized oranges, remove the rind and slice thin in a glass dish, covering each layer thickly with sugar; then set in a cool place over night. In the morning take a quart of water and squeeze in the juice of two large lemons; strain; add a cup of sugar, then let it come to a boil, and stir in slowly four tablespoon fuls of cornstarch, previously moist- ened with water. Let it boil until clear like starch, then pour it over the oranges and set away to cool. Before serving for dinner, take the whites of two eggs and beat to a. stiff froth and sweeten with pulverized sugar and spread it over the top and place here and there a thin slice of red jelly. It must be served with table cream for sauce. Dr. Harriet Welch, San Francisco. ORANGES WITH TRANSPARENT JELLY. Half a dozen oranges; make a hole at the top with a circular tin cutter about half an inch in diameter. Remove all the pulp and loose pith with a small spoon. Soak the oranges in cold water for one hour; rinse in cold water and drain on a cloth. Put them in a deep pan and surround with ice. Fill three with bright, pink jelly, and the rest with white. When the jelly is firm, wipe the oranges and cut into quarters. Serve them on a glass stand. Mrs. Stephen M. White. PEACH CREAM. Mash one quart of ripe peaches; add half pint of sugar. Beat together and set on ice. Dissolve one box of gelatine in cold water; whip one quart of cream ; grate one nutmeg. Mix gela- tine and cream with the peaches, stir thoroughly, pour in a mold and pack in ice for one hour. Mrs. C. M. Sanders.158 landmarks club cook book. PRUNE CHARLOTTE. Let one and a half dozen large California prunes stand in cold water for five minutes. Then stew for one hour. Let them cool, then stone and chop fine. Whip a pint of cream stiff. Then whip the prunes into this. Line a dish with sponge cake and fill the center with the prune cream. Set in ice box till ready to serve. Miss Ahbie McCrary, Sacramento. PRUNE WHIP. One-half pound prunes cooked very tender and sweetened; put through colander. Take whites of six eggs, beat very stiff; then beat in prunes gradually. Whip all together about five minutes; put in a mold and set in a cold place. This will keep several days, and is much nicer than the baked pudding. Serve with whipped cream unsweetened. Miss H. Knickerbocker. RASPBERRY SPONGE. Two boxes raspberries, two cups of sugar, juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful Knox’s gelatine, whites of three eggs. Wash and mash the berries, and put through a sieve; add the sugar and lemon juice. Soak the gelatine in a cup of water, and when dissolved pour into the mashed berries, and let it stand until it is as thick as jelly; then add the beaten whites and beat all together. Pour in a mold and place on ice. Mrs. Marion W. Stewart. ROSE CUSTARD. Milk two cups, eggs three cups, sugar half cud, raspbery juice half pint. Heat the milk to boiling. Beat the eggs; pour the hot milk gradually upon them, stirring all the time. Add sugar and salt. When cool, stir in juice. Pour in but- tered mold, set it in a pan of boiling water and cook until well set. When cold, serve with cream. Mrs. Fred Walton. RUSSIAN CREAM. One quart sweet milk, half box gelatine, three eggs, one cup sugar, vanilla to taste. Dissolve gelatine in a very little tepid water. Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together. Bring milk159 DESSERTS. to a boiling point, then add gelatine, eggs and sugar, and let it come to a boil once more. Then remove from the fire and add the beaten whites of the eggs. Mrs. Gltjyas. SPANISH CREAM. One pint of milk, half box of gelatine (Cox). Put to soak a few moments, then put on the stove and let come to a boil. Stir in four tablespoons of sugar that have been mixed with the yolks of three eggs. Remove from the fire and stir in the whites of the three eggs well beaten. Pour into a mold and set until the next day. Serve with whipped cream and sugar, Mrs. John H. Norton. STRAWBERRY CREAM. Cover half a box of gelatine with half a cup of cold water. Soak half an hour. Mash a quart of strawberries and press through a sieve; add a cup of sugar and stir until dissolved. Stand the gelatine over boiling water. When melted, stir into the strawberry juice, mix well and put on the ice until it thick- ens. Then add a pint of whipped cream, beat well, pour into a mold and set on the ice. Kate S. Vosburg. SWISS CREAM. One quart of sweet cream, the whites of seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Set the cream on stove. When it begins to boil, add the beaten eggs. Cook five minutes, stirring con- stantly. Flavor with vanilla. Pour into dish lined with lady fingers. Serve cold. • Cora T. Caswell. TAPIOCA CREAM CUSTARD. Soak three heaping tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a teacupful of water over night. Place over the fire a quart of milk; let it come to a boil; then stir in the tapioca. A good pinch of salt; stir until it thickens; then add a cupful of sugar, and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir it quickly and pour it into a dish, and stir gently into the mixture the whites beaten stiff; then flavor and set it in an ice chest. Mrs. E. B. Millar.160 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. TRIFLE. One layer of macaroons, one of lady fingers. Sprinkle crys- tallized cherries and pineapple over this. Moisten with sherry wine; then pour whipped cream over the whole. Serve in individual dishes or in a large glass bowl by putting in alter- nate layers. triple. Mrs. L. A. Grant. Line a glass dish with slices of sponge cake, dipped in sherry. Cover with raspberry jam. Pour in cold boiled cus- tard, and cover with a meringue, flavored with lemon juice. j. f. w. VELVET CREAM. One cofifeecupful of wine, two-thirds of a cup of gelatine dissolved in one pint of water, one cofifeecupful of sugar. Set the mixture over the fire and let come to a boil, then strain through a flannel bag. When nearly cold, add one pint of good, rich cream. Beat all well together and put into a mold. Mrs. Stephen M. White. CHOCOLATE MACARONI. Three tablespoonfuls ground chocolate, three ounces mac- aroni, one glass of milk, three tablespoonfuls sugar, four eggs, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful vanilla, juice of half a lemon. Dissolve the chocolate in a little hot water. Boil the maca- roni in the milk until very soft. Beat the eggs light, and add to the sugar, salt and flavoring. Mix well, add chocolate and macaroni. Bake in a buttered mold. Serve very cold with whipped cream. Miss Anna Gerichten, Sail Francisco. CHOCOLATE POTATOS. Mix half a pound of icing sugar, quarter pound of ground al- monds and a few drops of flavoring, and the whites of two eggs, into a stiff paste. Then make into small balls. Have your hands well dusted with the icing sugar, or the mixture will stick. Roll them in fine grated chocolate and make “eyes” in them with a fork or a pair of scissors. Have ready a fryingpan with plenty of boiling butter (clarified), and put in the “pota- tos.” Be careful that they are not too close to one another. Drain and serve with finely chopped pistachios sprinkled over them. Mrs. William S. Cross.CHAPTER XV. PUDDING SAUCES. APRICOT SAUCE. One cupful apricot pulp, one cupful sugar. Boil five or ten minutes, thicken with arrowroot and strain. For fruit pud- dings. h. c. w. BISCIIOFE SAUCE. Put in a saucepan one cupful of white wine, one cupful of hot water, and sugar to taste ; add the zest of one-half of an orange and one-half a lemon. Eet it come to the boiling point, and remove from the fire. Take out the orange and lemon peel, add one-half cupful of seedless raisins, one tablespoonful of shredded almonds, a tablespoonful of finely shredded can- died orange and lemon peel; cover and let stand a half hour. When ready to serve, let it again come to the boiling point. Serve with cabinet puddings. The Century Cook Book. CREAM SAUCE. A cup:»of sweet cream, beaten. Stir in two cups pulverized sugar and a gill of brandy. Warm in a double boiler until it is creamy. Then grate in a little nutmeg. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. CREAM SAUCE. One-half cup of butter, one cup powdered sugar, one-quarter cup cream or milk, one teaspoonful vanilla or lemon. Beat butter to a cream, add sugar gradually, beating constantly. When light and creamy, add cream, little at a time. When all is beaten smooth, place bowl in basin of hot water and stir till sauce is smooth and creamy—no longer. It will take only a few moments. I his is a delicious sauce, and if well beaten and not kept iirthe hot water long enough to melt sugar, it will be white and foamy all through.162 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. DELICATE PUDDING SAUCE. One cup of boiling milk; beat one egg .and three tablespoon- fuls of powdered sugar together to a froth. Pour on the boiling milk and stir. Flavor with lemon. h. c. w. ERUIT SAUCES. Canned fruits, preserves or jams, make good sauces for blanc mange, cornstarch, rice or boiled pudding. The juice of canned fruit, boiled and thickened a little with arrowroot, and flavored or not with liquor or essence, makes a good hot sauce. h. c. w HARD SAUCE. One cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, creamed. To moisten, add four tablespoonfuls currant jelly whipped smooth, or two of brandy or of wine, or of lemon juice. If desired, a litttle nutmeg may be grated over when finished. Place on ice for an hour before using. h. c. w. LEMON sauce. .Three-quarters cup of sugar, half cup of butter, one egg, juice and half the rind of one lemon, half cup of boiling water. Cream butter and sugar, beat in egg, whipped light; then add lemon. Beat hard, then add water. Cook in double boiler till very hot, but do not let it boil. F. S. C., England. lemon sauce. * Two eggs, one cup white sugar, juice of one lemon. Take sugar and add half cup of hot water, and let boil to a syrup. Add juice and rind of one lemon. Beat the eggs light and stir them in. MOLASSES SAUCE. Take one cup of molasses, half cup of vinegar, half cup of butter; simmer together and flavor with nutmeg. Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar. Serve fvith plain boiled rice or with any apple pudding.163 * Mrs. J. G. Mossin. PUDDING SAUCES. PINEAPPLE SAUCE. Chop the pineapple very fine, sweeten and thicken with ar- row root. Serve with fritters, cornstarch, rice or batter pud- dings. h. c. w. WINE SAUCE. Beat the yolks of two eggs until light; add half cup of pow- dered sugar. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and add half cup of powdered sugar. Combine the two mixtures and add quarter cup of hot milk and two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Mrs. Scott Helm. sauce for stewed fruit. Four ounces of almonds, one pound of sugar, one quart milk, yolks of two eggs. Blanch the almonds and pound in a mortar; then throw into a syrup made of the milk and sugar. When quite thick, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir well, pour over any stewed fruit.CHAPTER XV], CAKE. GENERAL directions for making cake. Cake is a mixture of part or all of the following materials: Eggs, sugar or molasses, flour, butter or cream, milk or wa- ter, fruit, soda, cream of tartar, spices, etc. An analysis of the hundreds of receipts given in the books would show that the general principles involved may be included under two divisions, namely, receipts for sponge cakes, made without but- ter; and receipts for pound or cup cakes, made with butter. Sponge cakes are made rich with eggs, the lightness depend- ing wholly upon the amount of air beaten into the egg; or an inferior quality is made by substituting soda and cream of tartar (or baking powder) for part of the eggs, and adding- more flour and milk or water. They vary in color according as the white or yolk of the egg is used. Butter cakes are varied in the same way, and also by the addition of fruit, or spices, or various coloring and flavoring materials. There is no one department in cooking where so much de- pends upon the baking as in making cake. The fire should be steady and not too strong. In many coal stoves it is ex- ceedingly difficult to bake cake by a morning fire, as so much coal is put on that the fire is too hot, and cannot be checked sufficiently. The oven should be less hot than for bread. Thin cakes require a hotter oven than those baked in thick loaves. If the oven be not hot enough at first, or be cooled too sud- denly during the baking, the cake will not be light. Cakes with molasses in them burn more quickly than others. Thin cakes should bake from fifteen to twenty minutes; thicker cakes from thirty to forty minutes; very thick loaves about an hour, and fruit cake from two to three hours. Whichever kind you are baking, divide the time into quarters. During the first quarter the heat is not manifested in appearance, ex- cept by the rising; during the second the cake should con- tinue to rise and begin to brown; then it should become allCAKE. 165 over a rich golden brown; and in the last quarter it should settle a little; brown in the cracks, and shrink from the pan. Be careful not to take it out too soon. If necessary to move it, do it very gently, and never move it when it has risen to the full height, but is not yet browned or fixed in its shape. If cake brown before rising, the oven is too hot. When it rises more in the center, cracks open, and stays up, it is too stiff with flour. It should rise first on the edges, then in the middle, crack slightly, settle to a level again, when the cracks usually come together. Mrs. Lincoln’s Boston Cook Book. TEST FOR OVEN. The following test for heating the oven is given by Miss Parloa: Put in a piece of white paper. If at the end of five minutes the paper is a rich yellow color, the oven is right for sponge cake; if light yellow, it is too cool; if dark brown, it is too hot. For pound or butter cakes it should be light yel- low at the end of five minutes. For gingerbreads and thin rolled cakes it should be dark brown. CELIA THAXTER CAKE. Recipe given by the poet to her friend, Sarah Orne Jewett. Two cups sugar, half cup butter and cream well. Add two well beaten eggs, one cup milk with one teaspoon soda, two and a half cups of flour into which has been sifted two tea- spoonfuls of cream tartar. Add two cups seeded raisins sprinkled with one-half a cup of the flour from the above measure, and one teaspoon each cinnamon and cloves. Bake about one hour. Florence Collins Porter. CHOCOLATE CAKE. Quarter pound butter, quarter pound powdered sugar, quar- ter pound grated chocolate, two and a half ounces flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder. Beat butter to a cream, add sugar, beat well, add eggs one at a time, add flour and baking powder, and lastly add chocolate. Bake at once in mod- erate oven. Beatrice Wigmore.166 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. chocolate; NUT cake:. One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, two-thirds cup sweet milk, one and two-thirds cups flour, four eggs, one tea- spoonful baking powder, two squares Baker’s chocolate. Put the chocolate in the oven long enough to melt it. To it when melted add five tablespoons of boiling water, mix thoroughly and add to cake mixture. Lastly add a large cup of chopped walnut meats, having first dried them lightly with flour. Bake in a moderate oven and in a shallow pan, making cake not more than an inch and a half or two inches thick. Ice with white icing. Mrs. Emmeline Childs. COCOANUT CAICE:. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, yolks of five eggs and whites of two, one cup milk, three and a half cups flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar sifted into the flour. Bake in layers. Make the filling of any good frosting into which ground cocoanut has been strewed. Nora Wright, Hopland. coffee icuceien. One yeast cake dissolved with a teaspoonful of sugar in one cup of lukewarm milk. Two cups flour make a sponge which will be ready to stir in one hour. Add one cup sugar, one of butter, two cups flour, four eggs (break them in one at a time) ; stir between each, the whole to be slowly stirred half hour. Put into cake mold and raise to nearly double size. Bake three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. DOUGH CAKE;. • One heaping pint bowl of light bread dough, one cup of butter, two of sugar, one egg, teaspoonful of salt, two of pow- dered cinnamon, one of cloves, an even tablespoonful of bak- ing soda dissolved in a very little hot water. It is better to beat these ingredients with the hand at first, thoroughly. Add at the last a teacupful of raisins which have been boded soft, seeded and chopped a trifle and sprinkled with flour. Let it rise in the pans a half hour before baking slowly. Mrs. E. p. Eells.CAKE. 167 EGGLESS WHITE CAKE. One cup of sugar, .three tablespoons butter, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoons baking1 powder. Pauline Jewett. ENGLISH WAI/NUT CAKE. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, whites of eight eggs, three-quarters cup milk, three teaspoons of bak- ing powder, half spoon of lemon and vanilla flavoring mixed, one and a half pounds walnuts chopped fine (not too fine) and added last with a little of the flour sprinkled over them. Mrs. John K. Wilson. EXCELLENT CAKE. Four cups flouT, three cups sugar, two cups butter, one cup milk, four eggs, one teaspoon baking powder. Season to taste. Pauline Jewett. FEDERAL CAKE. One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound two ounces of flour, five eggs, one cup of sour cream, one tea- spoonful of soda, one. wineglass of wine, one wineglass of brandy, one nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, a half spoonful of cloves, and a pinch of allspice, one pound of rah sins well boiled, seeded and chopped a very litttle. Light brown sugar better than white. Bake rather slowly, as it browns easily. Three loaves. Mrs. E. P. Eells. FRENCH LOAF. Two and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, one cup milk, three cups flour, three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, grated peel of one lemon. Pauline Jewett. » ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE. One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-quarters pound hutter, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one pound citron, quarter pound blanched almonds, half ounce of mace, two teaspoon fills of nutmeg, allspice, cinnamon and cloves, one teaspoonful of rose water, one glass of wine, one glass of168 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. brandy, ten eggs. Stir sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs well beaten; stir the flour in gradually, leaving a little to mix with the fruit; add wine, brandy and spice, and lastly the fruit. Bake slowly five or six hours. Mrs. C. M. Sanders. 'i'LN POUND BLACK BRUIT CAKE. Three-quarters pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour (browned), ten eggs, four pounds raisins (after ston- mg), two pounds currants, one pound citron, quarter pound almonds (blanched, shredded), one teaspoon soda, two wine- glasses brandy, two wineglasses sherry wine, wineglass milk, wineglass molasses, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves or spices according to taste, one nutmeg grated. Bake four or five hours in paper lined tin. Mrs. Lynn Helm. HAZEL NUT CAKE. One large cup of sugar, two dozen lady fingers, one dozen eggs, one pinch of salt, one pound of nuts. Beat yolks, salt and sugar to a foam. Add the nuts, which must be ground to a flour with the skins; the lady fingers dried and rolled very fine. Beat the whites of the eggs later very stiff. Bake and do not take out of the pan until cold. Mrs. Frank W. Kino. KENTUCKY SILVER CAKE. Whites of eight eggs, two cups of powdered sugar, two and a half of flour, half of butter, half of sweet milk, one and a half teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, half of soda. Mix cream tartar and soda in the milk thoroughly and add it, after everything else has been mixed together. Ahtrand flavoring and an extra pinch of salt. Most excellent. Mrs E. P. Eells. KITTIE S CAKE. One cup flour (full), one cup sugar, one teaspoonful bak- ing powder, small piece butter (nearly half cup), one egg (two eggs if richer cake is desired), half cup water. Flavor to suit the taste. Fruit if desired. Sift flour, sugar and bak- ing powder together in a bowl, add the other ingredients and mix all together thoroughly. Bake from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Kittie Colburn.CAKE. 169 LED KUCHEN. Two pounds honey, one pound almonds, one pound sugar, one lemon, one-quarter spoon soda, cloves, citron, cinnamon, candied orange peel, wineglass of wine. Boil honey, blanch and chop nuts, cut fine the peel and citron. Pour the boiling honey over the other ingredients; add flour to stiffen. Let stand from four to eight days before baking. Roll thin and bake in large pans. While warm, cover with boiled frosting and cut into squares. Mrs Emil Kirchver. MARBLE CAKE. White part: Half cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, half cup milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, whites four eggs. Dark Part: Half cup butter, one and a half cups brown sugar, half cup molasses, half cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons, each cloves and cinnamon, one tablespoon grated chocolate, yolks of four eggs and one white, two tea- spoons baking powder. Mix and bake in loaf one hour. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. NUT CAICE. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three cups flour, one cup milk and water mixed, one cup chopped raisins, one- cup wal- nuts coarsely chopped, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, half of a nutmeg. Mrs Kemp. NUT CAKE. Half cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, two and a half cups flour, half cup milk, one cup chopped walnuts, three eggs, one and a half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream the but- ter and sugar and add, in order, eggs (beaten), flour, milk and nuts. Mix baking powder into the flour. This will be a stiff batter. Mrs. H. C. Austin. ORANGE CAKE. Three eggs, their weight in butter, sugar and flour. Beat butter and sugar to a light cream; add two eggs and half the170 landmarks club cook book. flour beaten well. Then add the grated rind of one orange and half the juice; then put in the remainder of the flour, a small teaspoonful of baking powder and the third egg. Bake half hour. Icing (if desired) : Six ounces of icing sugar and enough orange juice to make it a thick cream. F. S. C., England. POUND CAKE. The success of the cake is dependent upon the mixing. Beat one pound of butter to a cream and add to it one pound of flour into which has been well sifted a full teaspoonful of mace. Add to the well beaten yolks of ten eggs one pound of sugar, and beat until the sugar is dissolved; beat both mix- tures together thoroughly; then add the well beaten whites of the ten eggs and bake in medium oven. Much depends upon the baking. Carrie T. Waddilove. POUND CAKE. One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, creamed; ten eggs, yolks stirred into butter and sugar, the whites beaten stiff; three tablespoonfuls of water, one pound of flour, a large ta- blespoonful of baking powder. Into butter, sugar, eggs and water alternate the flour and whites of eggs. One white may be reserved for icing. Mrs. H. C. Austin. PREMIUM CAKE. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one and a half of flour, one and a half cornstarch, one cup of thick cream, one tea- spoonful cream of tartar, half a teaspoon soda, four eggs. Beat yolks and whites separately. Mrs. Stephen M. White. QUEEN’S CAKE. One pound of sugar, three-fourths pound of butter, eight eggs, wine glass of sherry, one of brandy and one of milk.* Stir the butter and sugar to a cream until it is light and white. Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs and beat to a stiff frotb ; then stir them in gradually to the butter and sugar, add wine, brandy and milk. Stir in one pound of sifted flour and171 CAKE. one pound of seeded raisins and one pound of Zante currants, alternately handful of raisins and handful of cui rants the currants to be previously washed and dried. Line a couple of three-pint tin pans with buttered white paper, put in the cake, and bake it directly. If it browns too fast, cover it with pa- per. It takes from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half to bake it, according to the heat of the oven. Will keep for years if placed in tight tin. Dr. Harriet Welch, San Francisco. RAISED CAKE. At night, one cupful scalded milk, one cake compressed yeast, one-half cupful sugar. Make a stiff batter and cover closely. In the morning add one-half cupful warm milk, two and a half cupfuls sugar creamed with two cupfuls butter, four eggs and a half teaspoonful soda. Mix thoroughly; add another cupful flour, spices to taste. Pour into tins and let rise until bubbles are on the top. Bake in a moderately quick oven. k. c. w. RAISIN CAKE. One pound flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, six eggs, one wineglassful brandy, one small nutmeg, one small teaspoonful soda, one pound raisins. Beat butter to a cream, add the flour, add the sugar powdered fine and stirred into the voiks of eggs; then beat in the whites whipped to a stiff forth; a glass of brandy, nutmeg grated, and the soda dissolved in one tablespoonful of hot water. Beat the whole together till it is light and creamy, then add the raisins, stoned and chopped. Strew a cupful of flour over them before putting them in the cake. Bake in tin lined with paper for one and a quarter hours. F. S. C., England. SALEM ELECTION CAKE, 1776. • Four pounds flour, one and a half sugar, half pound butter, four eggs, spice to taste, one pint of yeast. (Two cups milk and a cake compressed yeast is the modern equivalent to this last item.) At night sift flour into bread pan; make in the center a batter of the yeast and milk, with one-half cupful of172 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. sugar. In the morning the batter should be very light. Mix the remainder of the flour and the other ingredients into the batter; put into pans and let rise half an hour, or until there are bubbles on the top. Bake in round loaves in a moderate oven. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh SAND CAKE. Mix half pound butter to a foam, then mix in one by one, four eggs, half pound powdered sugar, half pound potato flour, fine cut lemon peel to taste, half wineglass of rum. Stir up all well together for an hour and a quarter. Pour into a pan well greased with butter, place same in moderate oven and bake for an hour and a half. SCHWARTZ BROD TORTE. Eight eggs, one cup powdered sugar, one cup granulated, two cups rye bread crumbs, one cup mashed potato, one cup grated almonds, one-half teaspoonful baking powder put over them. Three-quarter cup citron cut very fine, with one-quarter teaspoonful baking powder put over that. One teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoon ful allspice. Nutmeg to taste. Bake one hour. Mrs. J G. Mossw. SORT GINGERBREAD. One coffeecup of New Orleans molasses, half cup butter, one egg, half a teaspoon salt, one cup sour milk, two teaspoons soda, tablespoon ginger and one of cinnamon, flour to make it like a soft cup cake. Rather a slow oven. Mrs. E. P. Kells. SORT GINGERBREAD. Two eggs, one coffeecup Orleans molasses, half cup short- ening, half cup of sweet or sour milk, two teaspoons soda dis- solved in one tablespoon boiling water, two teaspoons ginger, one pinch of salt, two and a half cups flour. 1 Pauline Jewett. SORT GINGERBREAD. One cup butter, one cup brown sugar; mix well with but- ter ; three eggs, two cups New Orleans molasses, one cup sour milk, two even teaspoonfuls soda well beaten into milk, three173 CAKE. cups flour, ginger, cinnamon, allspice and cloves to taste. By adding currants and raisins, will make nice fruit cake. Beatrice Wigmoke. SNOWBALL CAKE. One cup sugar, half cup butter, two cups flour, half cup sweet milk, whites of three eggs, teaspoon of baking powder sifted with the flour. Beat butter and sugar thoroughly to- gether, add whites of eggs beaten to stiff froth. Add flour and milk last. Pauline Jewett. SNOW CAICE. Whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one tumbler of flour, one and a half tumblers of powdered white sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, pinch of salt. Sift all lightly to- gether on the eggs and stir just enough to mix well, no more. Frost it and sprinkle grated cocoanut over while moist. Miss M. J. Workman. SNOW CAICE. One cup sugar, half cup butter, one and a half cups flour, whites of four eggs, half cup sweet milk, one level teaspoon- ful baking powder. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. •Mrs. W. W. Thatcher, Hopland. 4 SPICE CAKE. One cup of sugar, half cup of butter, third cup of milk, one cup of flour, two eggs, one and a half teaspoons of baking powder, half teaspoonful of cinnamon, half teaspoonful of cloves. Bake in slow oven. Mrs. W. H. Workman. SPICE CAKE. Two cups brown sugar, scant half cup butter, two eggs (save out one white for frosting), one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two and a half cups flour, cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Make two layers. For filling make a boiled frosting of white of one egg and three-quarters cup of sugar. 'Add one cup chopped raisins. This can be used without the frosting as two separate cakes. Mrs, II. M. Lutz.174 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. SPONGE CAKE. Six eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoonful ex- tract of lemon, or grated rind of lemon and half teaspoonful juice. Beat whites until very stiff. Beat yolks until light, add sugar gradually and beat thoroughly ; add beaten whites and mix, but do not stir; add extract and mix; add flour gradu- ally and mix. Bake thirty or thirty-five minutes in baking pan well greased. Mary Long fellow-Mi lmorb. SPONGE CAKE. Eight eggs, eight tablespoonfuls milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, three cups sugar, one teaspoon- ful vanilla. Mrs. W. W. Thatcher, Hopland. SPONGE CAKE. Eggs seven, sugar three-quarters of a pound, flour half a pound, water seven tahlespoonfuls, salt a pinch, baking powder a very scant teaspoonful. Put sugar and water in to boil; beat eggs separately and then together; pour the boiling sugar on the eggs and stir until cold ; stir slowly. When cool, add flour with as little stirring as possible; flavor with lemon and bake slowly for an hour. . Mrs Fred Walton. SPONGE CAKE. Three eggs. Beat yolks and white of one together. One and one-half cups of sugar, half cup of water, two of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, last add whites of remaining eggs. Flavor with one tablespoonful lemon juice. h. c. w. boiled sponge cake. Four eggs, one teacup of sugar, one rounded cup of flour, half teaspoon of vanilla, half teaspoon lemon, pinch of salt. Beat the whites and yolks separately and then beat them to- gether. Boil the sugar in quarter of a cup of water until clear, then pour it slowly into the beaten eggs—a very little at a time, so as not to cook the eggs. Beat until cool, then stir in the flour. Do not beat it after putting in the flour (stir it). Bake three- quarters hour in a slow oven. Mrs. J. H. F, Peck.175 CAKE. sultana cake. One cup butter, rind of one lemon, one and a half cups su- gar, one cup chopped almonds, five eggs, four cups flour, half cup milk, one teaspoonful baking powder, four ounces mixed candied peel, one and a half cups sultana raisins. Cream but- ter, add sugar gradually and beat well. Grate in lemon rind, sift flour and baking powder and add them alternately with milk and eggs (eggs put in unbeaten). Beat all thoroughly for two or three minutes, then stir in raisins, candied peel shredded fine and almonds chopped. Bake in tin lined with buttered paper for one and a quarter hours. Kate E. Whitaker. SUNSHINE CAKE. Whites of seven small fresh eggs, yolks of five, one scant cup granulated sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one-third tea- spoon cream tartar, a pinch of salt. Sift twice the measure of flour and sugar. Beat the yolks thoroughly; beat the whites with a pinch of salt; when half beaten add cream of tartar and beat stiff. Stir in the sugar lightly, then the beaten yolks, then a teaspoon of vanilla and lemon mixed, then the flour folded in. But in tube pan well greased. Bake in a moderate oven from forty to fifty minutes. Mrs. C. F. A. Last. SUNSHINE CAKE. Beat the whites of eleven eggs until very stiff, putting into them a pinch of cream tartar when half beaten. Add the well beaten yolks of six eggs and mix lightly. Sift into this one and a half cups granulated sugar. Measure one cup of flour after it has been sifted four times, put into it a level teaspoon- ful of cream tartar and sift into the egg and sugar mixture. Fla- vor with a teaspoonful of orange juice or vanilla. Put into an .ungreased pan and bake forty to fifty minutes in a slow oven. Cover with brown paper until cake is risen. When done, turn pan upside down until cake is cold; run a knife around edge and stem, set in oven one minute and the cake will fall out. Flavor icing with grated orange peel. Mrs. Georoe Sinsabaugh.176 LANDMARKS CKUB COOK BO^K. VELVET CAKE. One pound sugar, one pound flour, half pound butter, four eggs, one teacup cold water, one teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with vanilla. Beat the sugar and but- ter to a cream, dissolve the soda in water and sift the cream tartar in hour, mixing well. Then add to creamed butter and sugar the flour and water. Mbs. E. R. Hull. WAT,NUT SHEET. Half pound walnuts, or about two cups walnut meats, half pound (or one cup) brown sugar, two eggs, two heaping ta- blespoons flour, half teaspoon baking powder, pinch salt. Mix sugar and zvell beaten yolks, add well beaten whites; then add flour, salt and baking powder sifted together, and lastly add nuts chopped not too fine. Bake in a sheet ; let it remain in the tin until cold, then cut in squares. Mrs. Willard H. Stimson. WEDDING CAKE. One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, three pounds raisins (stoned), three pounds currants, one pound citron, ten eggs (beaten separately), one tablespoonful cloves (ground), two tablespoonfuls allspice (ground), three nut- megs, two wineglassfuls brandy, one cup molasses, one tea- spoonful soda to be mixed in the molasses. Mrs W. H. Maurice. WHITE PERFECTION CAKE. One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, half cup cornstarch, whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one and a half teaspoons baking powder. Dissolve the corn- starch in the milk and add to the butter and sugar creamed together; then add the flour, and lastly whites of eggs and flavoring. Mrs. Karford.177 CAKE. LAYER CAKE, ETC. ALMOND CREAM CAKE. On beaten whites of ten eggs, sift one and a half goblets pulverized sugar, and a goblet flour through which has been stirred a heaping teaspocfn cream tartar. Stir very gently and do not beat it. Bake in jelly pans. Sift the flour and sugar four or five times. For cream, take half pint sweet cream or milk, yolks of three eggs, tablespoon pulverized sugar, teaspoon cornstarch; dis- solve starch smoothly with little milk; beat yolks and sugar together with this; boil the cream and stir these ingredients in as for any cream filling, only make a little thicker. Blanch and chop very fine a half pound of almonds and stir into the cream; put together like jelly cake. Mrs. Scott Helm. BANANA CAKE. Five eggs, two cups powdered sugar, two cups flour, third cup water, one and a half teaspoonfuls baking powder, vanilla. Bake in layers. Filling: Half pint milk, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch, one egg, one cup sugar, small piece butter, vanilla. Cook in double boiler; when done, add six bananas sliced thin. Cora T. Caswell. CHOCOLATE CAKE. Four eggs, two cups granulated sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, half cake Baker’s chocolate (unsweetened), two and a half cups flour, one teaspoon soda. Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs, then add the chocolate melted and stir in just before flour; then half the flour, well beaten whites of eggs, the soda dissolved in milk, and last the remaining flour. Bake in a long bread tin in a moderate oven. When cold, ctw in half and place one on top of the other and ice with boiled icing. Miss M. j. Workman. COCOANUT LAYER CAKE. One cup sug^r, half cup butter, two eggs, two-thirds cup milk, two and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. Bake in layers and use the following custard filling:178 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. One egg, a tablespoonful of sugar and a half pint of sweet milk, brought to a boil and thickened with grated cocoanut. Frost with whites of two eggs, thicken with powdered su- gar, and sprinkle with cocoanut. Mrs. H. C. Austin. FRESH COCOANUT CAKE. Half cup butter, one cup sugar, half cup milk, two eggs, one and a half cups flour, one heaping teaspoonful baking powder, vanilla. Cream butter well, then add sugar and cream well again. Add the milk, then the well beaten yolks, then add the flour sifted well with the baking _powder. Beat all together until light. Then add the beaten whites and va- nilla. Bake in two layers. Filling: Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff and add gradually enough powdered sugar to make a creamy icing. Spread on the layers, then cover thickly with fresh cocoanut grated. Flavor icing with a little vanilla. Mrs. Geo. W. Lichtenberger. COFFEE CAKE. One and a half cups sugar, two cups flour, three-quarters cup butter, half cup milk, coffee or water, two small teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla, little salt and nutmeg. Filling for same: Five tablespoons coffee and one cup boil- ing water; boil fifteen minutes, then strain and boil until re- duced to one-half cup. Het it cool and add two cups thick cream well beaten and three-quarters cup sugar. Mrs. Willard H. Stimson. CREAM CAKE. Outside: One cup sugar, three eggs, one and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, half teaspoonful soda, two tablespoonfuls water or milk. Inside: One pint of milk (boiled), two eggs, two table- spoonfuls flour, one cup sugar. Beat all together and stir in- gredients while the milk is boiling. Flavor with lemon. Mrs. H. B. Burrage. FIG LAYER FOR WHITE CAKE. One cup brown sugar, butter size of walnut, half cup of sweet milk, one egg, one cup of chopped figs, one teaspoonful baking powder, one teacupful of sifted flour. Place between white layers with frosting.CAKE. 179 FRENCH CREAM CAKE. Cream: Boil a pint of sweet milk, take two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch or arrow root, wet with a little milk, add two eggs, beat together and stir in the boiling milk. When this has boiled, add teacup of sugar and a tablespoon of butter, take off the fire and add flavoring extract to taste. Cake: Three eggs, one cup powdered sugar, one and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar, two tablespoonfuls water. Bake in two deep pie plates in a quick oven. Split while warm and put cream between—as much as they will hold. Put in a cool place and keep one or two days before eating. Mrs. W. H. Workman. MAPLE SUGAR CAKE. Half cup of butter, half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one cup granulated sugar, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one tea- spoon soda, four eggs (the whites only) ; beat until light; va- nilla to taste. Bake in layers. Filling: One cup of sugar (2-3 maple, 1-3 granulated su- gar), four tablespoons water. Boil together until it cleans from the spoon; then pour on the well beaten white of an egg, slowly; spread between layers. Helen Howe. MARSHMAEI.OW CAKE. Cut sunshine cake horizontally and fill with the following dressing: One cup of sugar, wet and boiled until it can be rolled to a ball in cold water. Whip this into a beaten white of an egg, and into this stir eight or ten marshmallows. Mrs. Batte, Tucson, Ariz. MARSHMALLOW CAKE. One angel cake cut in half, forming two layers; make fill- ing of marshmallows broken into small pieces and mix with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla. Tlace about a two inch filling, then replace upper layer of cake, cov- ering all over with whipped cream and placing alternately pieces of pink and white marshmallows, candied cherries and candied pineapple until the cake is completely covered. Mrs. Randolph Miner.180 landmarks club cook book. NUT CAKE. Three eggs beaten separately, one cup sugar, five tablespoon- fuls hot water, one cup flour (measured before sifted), one tea- spoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful vanilla. Add sugar to yolks and beat; add water, flour, vanilla, whites and bak- ing powder. Bake in two layers. Filling: Half pint cream, whipped and sweetened to taste. Stir into this a teacup of finely chopped walnuts. Cover with a soft icing. Mrs M. R. Sinsabaugb. ORANGE CAKE. Cake: One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, three- quarters cup of sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons bak- ing powder, four eggs (whites well beaten). Filling: Two cups sugar, one cup milk. Boil together seven minutes. Stir in bowl till cool. Grate into it half an orange, pulp and peel, and juice of one orange. Stir until cool. Put between layers when both are cool. Mrs. W. H. Workman. ORANGE CAKE. Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful sweet milk, one teaspoonful baking pow- der. Bake in layers and use the following filling: Beat the whites of two eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, grated rind of one and juice of two oranges. Do not use icing on this delicate cake, but sprinkle top layer slightly with sugar. Mrs. H. C. Austin. pineapple cake tilling. One-half a grated pineapple, one lemon, three-fourths of a cup of milk, one teaspoonful of cornstarch. Let it boil until it thickens. Spread betweecn any nice layer cake. ribbon cake. Beat the whites and yolks of two eggs separately; take one- half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one tea- spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, and two cups of flour. Rub butter and sugar to a cream; add soda dissolvedcake:. 181 in milk, and cream of tartar in flour. Beat well, and divide into three equal portions; to one portion add the whites of the eggs, to another portion add the yolks, to the third add one- half cup each of chopped raisins and currants, a little citron, and all kinds of spices. Bake separately, and when baked, place in layers, with a little jelly, or egg and sugar, between. Frost, and cut in slices. The fruit layer must be in the center. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh. SPICE LAYER CAKE. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, one cup sour milk (thick), three small cups flour, one cup of chopped rai- sins or currants, one teaspoonful soda, two of cloves, two of cinnamon, two of allspice, and two of chocolate if desired. Fla- vor with vanilla. Mrs. Alfred J. Bayer. WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. Three cups sugar, one cup butter, half cup sweet milk, whites of ten eggs, half teaspoonful soda and half teaspoonful cream of tartar sifted with flour, four cups of flour. Flavor with es- sence of bitter almonds. Icing: Whites of three eggs, one pound powdered sugar. Flavor with lemon juice. Bake in jelly cake tins and fill with grated cocoanut, sweet- ened with quarter its weight of powdered sugar. F. H. Smith. ICINGS. ICING. White of an egg beaten very stiff; stir in very gradually ten heaping teaspoons of powdered sugar and one teaspoon starch, both sifted very fine. Stir constantly for about fifteen min- utes. If desired, flavor with rose-water or vanilla. While the cake is warm, dredge it with flour; then wipe it all off. This allows the icing to be more evenly spread. Spread smoothly with a broad knife, and set it in a cool place to harden.182 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. BOILED ICING. Take one cup of sugar and a little water boiled together until it is brittle when dropped into cold water. Remove from the stove and stir quickly into it the well beaten white of one egg. Place betweeen layers or over the top. BOILED ICING. One and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of milk, butter the size of an egg. Boil all together fifteen minutes. Flavor with vanilla or any flavoring desired. Beat until cool. Spread before hard. caramel cake filling. Two cups brown sugar, butter size of a large egg, half cup sweet cream. Boil together twelve minutes; flavor with one tablespoon vanilla. Let cool before spreading. Mrs. Emma Baldwin. CHOCOLATE ICING. The whites of two eggs, one and a half cupfuls of powdered sugar, six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Put chocolate and six tablespoonfuls sugar in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls hot water. Stir until smooth and glossy. Beat whites of eggs to a froth and add the choco- late and sugar. CHOCOLATE ICING. Two squares grated chocolate, five tablespoons powdered sugar, three tablespoons boiling water. Stir over fire until smooth. Evelyn R. Lutz. GELATINE FROSTING. One teaspoonful gelatine, two teaspoonfuls cold water to dissolve gelatine, one cup powdered sugar. Flavor to taste. Fresh lemon for flavoring is delicious. If used, dissolve your gelatine with it and a little water. • If too stiff, add water or lemon juice until the right consistency. Miss Maurice.183 CAKE. MARSHMALLOW ICING EOR CAKE. Put six strawberry marshmallows in a double boiler with a tablespoon of hot water and stir until melted. Boil one cup of sugar and quarter cup of water until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Pour the hot syrup gradually into the marshmallow mixture, then into the beaten whites of two eggs. Beat until cold. Mrs. Frank Griffith, Johannesburg. SMALL CAKES, COOKIES, ETC. almond spatelio. To two whites of eggs add half pound granulated sugar, half pound finely chopped almonds, fine cut peel and juice of one lemon; mix well. Let the paste dry, afterwards cut into strips about the size of a finger. Grease a pan with white wax and bake quickly to a light brown. aunt louise’s cookies. One teacupful sugar, one teacupful sour cream, one egg, one teaspoonful soda. Mix all together, with flour enough to roll. Bake in quick oven. Beatrice Wigmoee. bachelor’s BUTTONS. Two cups flour, one cup sugar, one teaspoonful baking pow- der, three tablespoonfuls butter, three eggs, six drops extract of almond. Rub butter and flour together, put in baking pow- der, beat up eggs and sugar; add these with extract, flour, etc., and mix into stiff dough. Roll into small balls and toss them in granulated sugar. Put on greased tins and bake about ten minutes. BANBURY CAKES. One pound short pastry, two ounces dried currants, two ounces large raisins, one lemon, one orange, two ounces cake crumbs, quarter cup sugar, two ounces finely chopped suet. Seed raisins and chop them slightly. Put in a bowl with currants, suet, crumbs and sugar. Grate over them the rind of lemon and orange and squeeze in the juice. Mix and let stand one hour.184 landmarks club cook book. Roll out pastry and cut into rounds about four inches across. Place the mixture on these, fasten together the edges, turn the cake over and flatten out. Brush over with sugar and milk and bake in a quick oven. Kate E. Whitaker. chocolate BALLS. Three eggs, one cup sugar, one and a half cups flour, three tablespoons milk, two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in two tins, size four by nine inches. When done, cut into squares of about one and a half inches and roll in the mixture, then in the powdered sugar. Mixture: Half cup grated chocolate, one cup sugar, two- thirds cup water. Boil until it hairs. Add to beaten white of one egg. Flavor. Mrs. A. P. Kerckhoff, Covina. COOKIES. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, half cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, flour to roll out. Allie McEwen. COOKIES. One cup butter, one cup water, two cups sugar, one small teaspoonful soda and enough flour to thicken. Cream the but- ter and sugar, then add the water, stirring all together; then the flour and soda. Use as little flour as possible, for too much makes cookies mealy. Roll very thin. These cookies will keep months in a closed tin box. Mrs. A. Petsch. MOLASSES COOKIES. One cup of molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup sour milk, into which put a heaping teaspoonful of soda, stirring it well, one cup of melted butter (half lard can be used), one teaspoonful of ginger and one of cloves and a little salt, flour. Mix as soft as possible. Mrs. Alfred J. Bayer. OAT MEAL COOKIES. Three cups oat meal, two cups flour, one cup sugar, one tea- spoon soda, one saltspoon salt. Mix thoroughly together, then take one-half cup melted butter and one-half cup hot waterCAKE. 185 and pour over. Mix well and roll out thin. Cut. with a knife into blocks and squares. Bake in a quick oven. Mrs. L. A. Grant. PEANUT COOKIES. Shell sufficient roasted peanuts to give one pint of the meats. Rub off the inner skin and chop very fine, or put through a meat cutter. Cream together two tablespoonfuls of butter and one cupful of sugar. Add three eggs, two table- spoonfuls of milk, quarter teaspoonful of salt; the chopped peanuts and flour enough to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut in shapes and bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. William S. Cross. ROKLED OAT cookies. Two cups rolled oats, one cup wheat flour, half cup melted butter, one cup sugar, half teaspoon of soda dissolved in a quarter cup hot water. Mix, let stand an hour, then add half cup raisins chopped, a half cup chopped walnuts; roll thin and bake in a moderate oven. cream cakes. One pound butter, one pint cream. Rub butter to cream; add the cream and mix thoroughly. Add as much flour as the mixture will hold without being stiff. Put the dough on a platter and leave on the ice over night. In the morning roll (he dough out thin in sugar, cut in diamond shape and bake. Miss Rose Newmark. cream PUEES. Half cup butter melted in one cup hot water; boil together. While boiling, stir in one cup flour. Take off and cool, then stir in three eggs in succession without beating. Drop on but- tered tins and bake in hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes. Filling: One cup milk, one egg, half cup sugar. Thicken with one even tablespoon cornstarch. Flavor as desired. Evelyn R. Lutz. CREAM PUEES. Boil for a moment two ounces of butter in a half pint of water; add hastily half a pint of flour; beat until smooth and thick. Take from the fire and break in one egg; beat until186 landmarks club cook book. mixed. Add another egg and beat again, and so continue until you have added four eggs. Bake by dropping single table- spoonfuls into greased shallow pans. Filling: Half a pint of cream, well whipped; then add the white of an egg, also well beaten; three tablespoonfuls of su- gar, one tablespoonful of vanilla. Miss M. T. Etchemendy. BRUIT JUMBLES. Two-thirds cup butter, two small cups sugar, two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately; one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves or nutmeg, one small teaspoon soda in three tablespoons milk, one cup chopped raisins or candied lemon or orange peel, or both ; one teaspoon vanilla, flour to roll rather thin. Sprinkle with sugar; cut with small cutter; bake quick. Mrs. John Boal, National City. HERMITS. Two-thirds cup sugar, one cup butter, third cup milk, three eggs, one and a quarter cups flour (or more), one teaspoon cloves (scant), one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon vanilla, one pound chopped raisins, one cup chopped walnuts. Drop spoonfuls in tins and bake in moderate oven. Mary Okey Knight. HERMITS. One and a half cups brown sugar, one large cup butter, three eggs, one teaspoon each cinnamon and nutmeg, half of cloves, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little hot water, two tablespoons milk, one, two or three cups seeded and chopped raisins, flour to mix very soft. Cut with a cookie cutter, dhese can be mixed into a stiff batter and made into drop cakes, but are not as nice. Mrs. W. H. Burnham, Orange. hermits. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, three eggs, one cup raisins, one cup walnuts, third cup citron, one teaspoon ground cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, one level teaspoon soda one teaspoon vanilla extract, flour to stiffen. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs without beating. Have raisins187 CAKE. stoned and cut fine, walnuts and citron chopped fine and flour well. Mix with the butter and eggs, add vanilla and soda dis- solved in hot water. Then mix in flour until stiff enough to mold into halls size of walnuts. Put in well greased pans and bake in moderate oven. Should be about the size of sil- ver dollars when done. Will keep if put under lock and key. Mrs. Arthur Wells. JUMBLES. One cup sugar, half cup butter, three eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with wine, vanilla or nutmeg. Do not put in flour enough to roll; drop them or shape with the hands. Mrs. E. R. Hull. JUMBLES. Two eggs beaten light, one cup sugar, pinch of soda, one cup butter, mix not too hard. Mrs. E. A. Padgham. NUT JUMBLES. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, two and a half cups flour, half cup milk, half cup nuts (cut in pieces, not chopped), two eggs (beaten together), half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar; vanilla flavor. Drop in pan from a teaspoon and drop apart. Bake. Miss Maurice. MACAROONS FLAVORED WITH LEMON. Beat the yolks of four eggs light together with one pound of powdered white sugar and whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Beat into the beaten eggs and sugar the grated peel of one lemon and half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix in lastly and in small quantities the frothed whites and six ounces of flour. Roll the mixture into small balls, rub over with butter, lay them on a buttered paper, leaving a space between each, and bake in a hot oven. Mrs. M. J. Connell. "maids OE HONOR.” One cupful sour milk, one cupful sweet milk, one table- spoonful melted butter, yolks of four eggs, juice and grated rind of one lemon. Put both kinds of milk together in a double188 landmarks club cook book. boiler; let it become sufficiently heated to set the curd. Then strain off the milk and rub the curd through a strainer. Add butter to the curd, the sugar, well beaten yolks of eggs and lemon. Line patty-pans with rich puff pastry, fill with the mix- ture; bake until firm in the center, from ten to fifteen minutes. f. s. c. NUT PATTIES. One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one cup finely chopped nuts, pinch of salt, one egg. Beat the egg until very light, add sugar and beat again; then stir in flour and nuts until smoothly mixed. Drop in spoonfuls on a greased tin and bake in a moderately quick oven to a delicate brown. Josephine A. Seaman. QUEEN CAKES. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, add two ounces of fine sugar and beat till light; add one egg, beat a little, then add a second. Then stir in lightly three ounces of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder and a little lemon flavoring. Grease eight or nine little patty-pans, sprinkle at the bottom of each a few cleaned currants, and fill with the cake mixture. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Two cups granulated sugar, one cup butter (warmed), four eggs, three cups flour, one teaspoon baking soda dissolved in tablespoon hot water, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon allspice, one bowl English walnuts, one pound black dates cut in small pieces. Mix in this order and drop in greased tins in very small quantities, and bake in quick oven. Mrs. E. R. Hull. ROCK CAKES. Half pound butter, one pound flour, half pound sugar, forty drops essence of lemon, two eggs, half glass of brandy. Rub butter to a cream, add flour and then sugar. Mix the whole with two beaten eggs and brandy. Drop on tins and bake half an hour. F. S. C., England.CAKE. 189 SHREWSBURY CAKES. Two-thirds cup butter, two-thirds cup sugar, one egg, rind of one lemon grated, enough flour to make a stiff dough. Cream butter and sugar, grate in rind of lemon, add egg, mix, sift in flour, roll very thin, cut in fancy shapes. Bake in a moderate oven until a very pale brown. Keep in air-tight tins. Kate E. Whitaker. VICTORIA CAKES. Four cups flour, one cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, rind of one lemon grated, one cup candied cherries, apricots, etc., cut in small pieces; one cup butter, three eggs, a little milk. Sift flour, sugar and baking powder. Rub in the butter, add rind of lemon and candied fruits. Beat eggs slightly and mix with quarter cup milk. Mix this with flour, etc., to make a stiff dough. Divide into about sixteen por- tions. Place on a greased baking sheet, brush over with beaten egg and place a piece of cube sugar on each piece. Bake about twenty minutes. Kate E. Whitaker. WALNUT WAEERS. One coffeecup walnut meats, slightly broken, but not chopped, one cup brown sugar, three tablespoons flour (not too heaping if you want wafers waxy), half teaspoon baking powder, third teaspoon salt, two eggs. Mix sugar, eggs and salt, then add flour with baking powder, and lastly the nuts. Drop on buttered tins, letting it run together as thin as pos- sible. Bake quickly a light brown, and when done cut into squares. Mrs. Borglum, Sierra Madre. WALNUT WAFERS. One cup brown sugar, two eggs well beaten, one cup wal- nuts, three tablespoons flour, pinch salt. Drop on buttered tins. D. H. walnut wafers. Half pound brown sugar, half pound walnut meats, two eggs (beaten), three tablespoons flour, quarter teaspoon bak- ing powder, half teaspoon salt. Beat the eggs well, put in theLANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. sugar, sift the flour, baking powder and salt mixed, and stir them in; add walnut meats and stir well together. Take a teaspoonful of the batter and drop in buttered pans, leaving considerable space, when they will spread to desired size. Bake to a light brown. Mrs. John H. Norton. DOUGHNUTS, CRULLERS, ETe.. CRULLERS. Two tablespoonfuls sugar (sifted), one tablespoonful lard (when melted), one egg, a little salt. Flavor with nutmeg. Knead in enough flour so they will roll out to cut with a cruller cutter. They need a great deal of kneading, so as to be fine grained. Fry in hot lard like doughnuts. Mrs. W. H. Maurice. NEW YORK NEW YEAR S CRULLERS. Eight tablespoons sugar, six tablespoons butter, six eggs. Beat together thoroughly and stiffen well with flour (working it in as for very stiff cookies). Roll as thin as pastry and cut in fancy shapes with a “jiggering wheel,” and fry in hot lard. Season with powdered cinnamon and add half a tea- spoonful of salt. Mrs. E. P. Eeuls. DOUGHNUTS. Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, half tea- spoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, flour to make it roll easily. Mrs. Kemp. FRENCH CREAM FRITTERS. Half pint cold water, half pint flour, three eggs and the white of a fourth, one tablespoonful each of butter and sugar, grated peel of half a lemon, tiny pinch of salt. Put the wa- ter, sugar, butter, salt and lemon peel together into a clean saucepan and bring to a boil. Take from the fire, and when cool stir in the flour carefully that it may not lump. Return to the fire and stir steadily until it boils. Again take off, let cool and add eggs, one at time, beating each in well. When191 CAKE. it is stirred enough the mixture will leave the spoon clean when you withdraw it. Add now the white of fourth egg beaten very stiff. Set mixture aside for two hours, then drop it in lumps the size of a walnut from end of spoon into boiling fat. Serve on a napkin and sprinkle with powdered sugar. They are good either hot or cold. Miss Elizabeth Shankland RAISED DOUGHNUTS. Two cups sugar, one pint sweet milk, one cup butter, three eggs, one cup yeast, one nutmeg, flour enough to make a dough that can be rolled. Let it rise. Roll out and cut in any desired shape. Fry in very hot lard. Cora T. Caswell. GINGER CRISPS. One cup molasses, half cup sugar, one cup butter. Let the above ingredients just come to a good boil; when cool add one teaspoonful soda dissolved in one tablesponful hot wa- ter, one tabespoonful ginger, one tablespoonful cinnamon. Mix stiff with flour; knead for about five minutes, roll very thin; cut like cookies; bake. Mrs. W. H. Maurice. GINGER SNAPS. One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two cups molasses, ginger and other spices if desired, flour to roll. Delia Clemons. GINGER SNAPS. Bring to a scald one cup of molasses and stir in one tea- spoon of soda; pour it while foaming over one cup of sugar. One egg and one tablespoon of ginger beaten together; then add one tablespoon of vinegar; flour enough to roll, stirred in as lightly as possible. Mrs. Phebe M. Jewett. GINGER SNAPS. One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup lard, half cup boiling water, two tablespoons soda, one teaspoon salt, one and a half tablespoons ginger, flour to roll out nicely, but not too stiff. Mrs. J. J. Pay, Jr.192 LANDMARKS CEUB COOK BOOK. DROP GINGER CAKES. One cup molasses, one cup boiling water, one egg, one cup brown sugar, three-quarters cup of shortening, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, two teaspoons ginger, salt, five cups flour. Mrs. Phebe M. Jewett. SrONGE GINGER CAKE. One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup milk, three cups flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful soda and one large spoonful of ginger. Beat sugar and butter to a cream, then add molasses, ginger, and milk, saving a little of the milk to dissolve the soda. When well mixed, add flour, then the eggs that have been beaten very light. Mix all well together and just before putting the mixture into the pan add the soda. Put into oven and bake one hour. Mrs. H. N. Alexander. GINGERBREAD. One teacup sugar, one and a half tablespoons butter, one- half tablespoon lard, two eggs, one teacup molasses, one tea- cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, two big teacups flour. Bake slowly. Mrs. Richard Rising. GINGERBREAD. Cream well one-half cup of butter and one cup sugar. Add two well beaten eggs, one cup molasses, one cup milk, one teaspoon soda and three cups of flour through which has been sifted one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and ginger. Good results are obtained with either sweet or sour milk by a judi- cious use of the soda. Florence Collins Porter.CHAPTER XVII. FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. PRESERVES. General Directions. Skim off all scum as it rises. It is considered best, in jams and jellies, to boil and reduce them some before the sugar is added. Do not use a tin or iron spoon to stir jelly. By tak- ing out a spoonful in a saucer and setting it in cold water, the state of the jelly can easily be found out. Tin pans alter the color of any fruit. DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING FRUIT. Cook Sugar Fruit Water Cherries 5 minutes 6 ounces I quart i cup Raspberries 6 minutes 4 ounces 1 quart 1 cup Blackberries 6 minutes 6 ounces 1 quart 1 cup Strawberries 8 minutes 8 ounces 1 quart 1 cup Plums 10 minutes 10 ounces 1 quart 1 cup Bartlett Pears 20 minutes 6 ounces 1 quart 1 cup Peaches 8 minutes 4 ounces 1 quart 1 cup Boil full amount of sugar and water. Drop a portion of the fruit into the boiling syrup. When cooked the necessary time, dip out with a strainer and put into the hot jars. Repeat this process until all the fruit is cooked, then cover the fruit in the jars with the rich syrup and seal at once. Berries cooked this way will keep for years. Mrs. Dora A. Macneil. APPLE JELLY. Halve and quarter nice, large green apples. Take out the cores, wash and put them in a preserving kettle, with water enough to cover well. Let them boil until quite tender; take off and drain first through a colander, then a jelly bag. To every cup of juice add one cup of sugar. Let the juice come to a boil before putting in the sugar. Will jell in a few min- utes. Mrs. J. B. Duke.194 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. APRICOT JAM. Three-quarters as much sugar as peeled apricots. Drop them into a syrup made of the sugar. Cook forty minutes. A few minutes before taking the juice from the stove put in a few of the cracked nuts of the apricots. Mrs. Peters, San Francisco. APRICOT MARMALADE (ENGLISH). To every pound of ripe apricots (weighed after being stoned and skinned) allow one pound of sugar. Strew the sugrr over the apricots, which should be placed on dishes, and let them remain for twelve hours. Break the stones, blanch the ker- nels and put them with the sugar and fruit into a preserving pan. Let them simmer very gently till clear. Take out the pieces of apricot singly as they become so, and as fast as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Put the apricots into small jars; pour over them the syrup and kernels. Cover the jam with pieces of paper dipped in salad oil and stretch over the tops of jars tissue paper cut about two inches longer, and brush over with the white of an egg. When dry it will be per- fectly hard and air tight. Mrs. William S. Cross BRANDIED CHERRIES. Pound for pound sugar and fruit. Cook slowly five hours. When putting in jars, add half cup brandy to each pint jar. MRS. Jerry Conroy. BRANDIED CHERRIES. To one pound of cherries take one pound of sugar. Make a syrup of the sugar, add a little water and cook the fruit until tender. Skim out the cherries and boil down syrup until quite thick. Fill your cans three-quarters fruit and syrup, then put in raw brandy to fill. MRS. J. D. Hooker. CITRON PRESERVE. Cut citron into small pieces; let stand over night in salt water. Drain and boil in water till soft enough to pierce with a broom splint. Make a syrup of one pound of sugar to afruits, jellies, etc. pound of fruit; add one lemon cut into small pieces to every two pounds of fruit. Boil all together till thick. Mrs. Herman Hellman. CRANBERRIES. Put three pints of washed berries in a granite kettle. On top of them put three cups of granulated sugar and three gills of water. After they begin to boil, cook them ten minutes, closely covered. Do not stir them. Remove the scum. They will jell when cold, and the skins will be soft and tender. Mrs. Capen. CRANBERRY SAUCE. One quart cranberries, iy2 cups sugar, juice half lemon. Cook slowly and put in mold. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. FIG JAM. Wash and wipe white figs; peel black ones. Cut in halves if medium sized; if large, cut in thirds. To eleven pints of figs (heaped measure) use seven pints of sugar. Put all the fruit and four pints of sugar in a kettle without water. Add the thin rind of four lemons, an ounce of cinnamon, stick, and let come to a boil gradually. Then boil rapidly for thirty min- utes, stirring all the time. Add the remaining three pints of sugar and boil ten minutes. Bottle and seal. If ginger is liked, a small piece of the ginger root may be put in each jar when bottling. Mrs. E. B. Millar. GREEN FIG PRESERVE. Materials: Green figs, one-half to two-thirds grown ; syrup, sugar, one pound to each pound of figs, using a little more wa- ter than usual, as the figs have no juice of their own. Make a cross-cut in each fig, from the top to about half way down. Place the cut figs in cold water, and let them soak for twelve hours or more. A small lump of quicklime may be added to the water. Drain the figs and parboil in fresh water until they can be pierced with a straw. Drain again, and boil in the syrup until perfectly clear. Mrs. Emmeline Childs.196 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. FIG marmalade. Three pounds of figs, two oranges, two lemons, two pounds sugar. Use pulp of the oranges, pulp and rind of the lemons; chop altogether; cook twenty minutes. Add ginger root if de- sired. H. C. W. GREENGAGE JAM. To every pound of fruit (weighed before being stoned) al- low three-quarters pound of sugar. Divide the greengages, take out the stones and put them into preserving pan. Bring the fruit to a boil, then add the sugar and keep stirring it over a gentle fire until it is melted. Remove all the scum as it rises, and just before the jam is done boil rapidly for five min- utes. Have ready half the kernels, blanched; put them into the jam. Give them one boil and pour the preserves into pots. When cold, cover down with oiled paper, and over these tissue paper, brushed on both sides with the white of an egg. Time for boiling, three-quarters of an hour after the sugar is added. Mrs. William S. Cross. GUAVA PASTE. To about a quart of guavas (after they are put through the sieve) half teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful cinnamon, quarter teaspoonful mace. Cook the guavas with just enough water to keen them from burning. Pass through a sieve; heat them and put in the same amount of sugar as guavas. Cook until quite thick. Stir to prevent burning. Just before the paste is ready to take from the stove add the spices. Mrs. H. T. Christian LEMON MARMALADE (SPANISH). Twenty fresh ripe lemons, six oranges, five quarts of water, ten pounds sugar. Cut rind off the lemons, very thin; also the oranges. Chop fine; throw away the white part, and slice the oranges and lemons thin. Add all together and put into a large stone jar with five quarts of water. Allow it to stand thirty-six hours; boil well for a couple of hours, or until thick; add ten pounds of white sugar'; boil for half an hour, or until like jelly. Mrs. B. C. Shepard.197 fruits, jellies, etc. LOQUAT JAM. Remove the skin and pits of ripe pulpy loquats. To six pounds of the pulp add four pounds of white sugar; simmer slowly and stir often for three hours. Seal while hot and keep in a dry, cool place. NECTARINE JAM. To be eaten with meats. Eight pounds of fruit, four pounds brown sugar, one quart of vinegar, two ounces whole cloves (boiled in a bag to extract flavor). Boil one hour; pour in cups or glasses and seal. Mrs. J. D. Hooker. ORANGE MARMALADE. Four pounds oranges, five quarts water, five lemons. Slice the oranges very thin. Peel and slice lemons. Cover with the five quarts of water, and set away for twenty-four hours. Boil until orange peel is tender, and set away for another twenty-four hours. For final boiling, take equal quantity of sugar and boil until it jells. Mrs. Harben, Los Angeles. ORANGE MARMALADE. One dozen oranges (medium size) and half dozen lemons, sliced into small pieces and mixed. To this add fourteen glasses of water. Let stand for twenty-four hours; then boil for half hour, and let stand for twenty-four hours. Then measure and add Ip2 tumblers of sugar to one of juice and boil for one hour, or until it runs thick upon the spoon. PEACH PRESERVES. To one pound of fruit take three-quarters pound sugar. Make the syrup in a porcelain-lined kettle, and lay the fruit in. Cook slowly until the peaches are clear, then lift out care- fully into your jar. Cook the syrup down and pour over. BRANDIED PEACHES. Use yellow clingstones. Cook until soft, in a syrup made of white sugar. Run a broom straw in them to tell when they are cooked. Drain thoroughly in a wire basket. Put the juice that drips from the peaches back in the pan. While these198 LANDMARK,S CLUB COOK BOOK. peaches are dripping put in some more and cook them. Heat the peaches in the syrup before putting in the jars. Drain all the juice from the jar back into the pan of syrup. Pour over the peaches the hot syrup in the proportion of two cups syrup, one cup brandy. Seal at once. Mrs. Livingstone. PINEAPPLE AND APRICOT JAM. Three pounds apricots, pitted and peeled; one pint chopped pineapple; three-quarters pound sugar to each pound of apri- cots; one pound of sugar to each pint of pineapple. Put all together; cook from three-quarters to 1*4 hours. Mrs. James H. Sturtevant, San Francisco. PRESERVED QUINCE. To one pound of quince, ijkj pounds of sugar. Cover with water and boil about half an hour. Cut the quinces in very thin slices. Do not boil before putting the sugar to the quince. Put up in large jelly glasses. Mary Okey Knight. RHUBARB JELLY. Cut the rhubarb in pieces without peeling. Steam until very soft. Drain on sieve over night. Press a little to get out all the juice. Boil and strain. Heat sugar in oven, and add not quite one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil until jelly is formed when tested. Miss K. A. Davies. RHUBARB AND ORANGE JAM. Wipe the rhubarb until clean and dry, and cut into fine pieces without peeling. Peel six oranges; cut away the white under- skin ; take out the seeds and divide the oranges into quarters. Open each carpel that holds the pulp and take out that, being careful to save all the juice. Put the rhubarb, orange pulp and juice with il/2 pounds of granulated sugar. Stir until the sugar is melted; then cook slowly, until a fine mass. Put away in tumblers and cover with oiled or waxed paper. A very good jam of the rhubarb is also made without the oranges. Use one pound sugar to each pound of fruit, and flavor each pound with the grated yellow rind of .half a large lemon. Stii and skim frequently while cooking. MRS. W. S. Cross.199 fruits, jellies, etc. Mrs. G. W. Reed SALPICON. Five pounds of currants, three oranges, one pound of seed- less raisins, three-fourths pound sugar to each pound of cui- rants. Chop oranges fine, leaving out the peel of one. Cook currants and sugar twenty minutes; then add the orange and cook five minutes; then the raisins and cook five minutes longer. Seal in fruit jars. Charlotte E. Hahn. strawberries A LA ROMANA. Do not ruin the flavor by washing too much, nor letting them remain in sugar too long before serving. Put them in a bowl very carefully. If of a large variety, serve with caps and stems; add some powdered sugar and squeeze the juice of one- half a lemon for every saucer; then serve. Aurelio AMILLO. TOMATO PRESERVE. Take half-ripe tomatos ; put them in lime water over night. Then wash them in two or three waters; last put some boiling water over them. Then take five pounds of sugar to six pounds of tomatos. Boil the sugar with little water to a syrup quite thick. Then put in your tomatos and let cook very slowly till your syrup is nice—it may take two or three hours. Last put some sticks of cinnamon and one lemon, cut in two. Mrs Ducommun. TOMATO PRESERVE. One pound of sugar to every pound of tomatos, with quarter pint of water; four lemons to a pound of tomatos. Large, firm tomatos (boiling water to peel them) ; slice thick and drain the juice and water from them. Make syrup of the sugar and water, boil until thick; slice the lemons and boil in water until tender, and drain. Put fruit and lemons into the syrup, a little at a time, and cook until clear and rich. Place on flat dish to drain, and put into jars and cover with syrup. When done must he very thick. Can be spiced or not, using fine spices to taste in the syrup.CHAPTER XVIII. PICKERS, CATSUPS AND RELISHES. SWEET PICKLE APRICOTS. Seven pounds sugar, one pint cider vinegar, one dessert- spoonful cayenne pepper, one dozen cloves. When the syrup boils, drop in the fruit; cook until clear, but not soft. Seal while hot; put in glass jars. Excellent with any meat, cold or hot. Mrs. J. B. Duke. ANCHOVY CATSUP. Two quarts vinegar, twelve small onions minced, twelve an- chovies pulled to pieces and soaked, one tablespoon mace, three tablespoons salt, three of white sugar, one of cloves, three spoonfuls pepper-corns, two spoonfuls ground pepper, one spoonful cayenne, one quart minced mushrooms, one quart of tomatos. Put in a preserving kettle, boil slowly four hours, until the mixture is reduced to half the original quantity. Strain through flannel bag. Do not bottle until next day. Sealed, this will keep for years. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. CHILE SAUCE. Dry red peppers, onions, salt. Remove the seeds from the peppers, soak them in boiling water until soft; remove the skin by rubbing them through a coarse sieve; season with salt and a small quantity of finely chopped onions. If too thick, add water. Use as a sauce or in gravies and stews. Charlotte Workman, CHILE SAUCE. Twelve large ripe tomatos, three green peppers, two onions, two tablespoons salt, two tablespoons sugar, three cups of vin- egar. Peel the tomatos and onions, chop them separately, add peppers (chopped), boil il/2 hours. This makes il/2 quarts. Mrs. Capen. CHILE SAUCE. Twenty-four large ripe tomatos, four large onions, twelve hot green peppers (cut out the seeds). Chop all fine and add201 PICKLES, CATSUPS AND RELISHES. eight tablespoons sugar, four tablespoons salt, four teaspoons o-round ginger, four teaspoons ground cloves, four teaspoons ground cinnamon, four teaspoons grated nutmeg, eight tea- cups of vinegar. Stir all thoroughly until well cooked. r Mrs. C. C. Carpenter. CHILE SAUCE (NEW MEXICO). Eight quarts of ripe tomatos peeled, three cups of chopped red chiles, three cups chopped onions, two cups sugar, one cup salt, three teaspoons each cloves, cinnamon and ginger, two teaspoons nutmeg, il/2 quarts vinegar. Boil three hours; bottle and seal. Carrie E. Coleman. CHOW-CHOW. One peck green tomatos chopped fine; sprinkle over it one cup of salt. Let stand all night. Cut fine four green peppers and two onions; add two tablespoons whole cloves, same of all- spice and stick cinnamon, two ounces mustard seed, one tea- cup salt. Chop two cabbages, two cauliflowers; boil them in little vinegar twenty minutes, then add all together and boil five minutes. Strain off vinegar, cover with fresh cold vine- gar ; add one ounce celery seed. Mrs. Capen. CHOW-CHOW. Said to be equal to Cross & Blackwell's. One quart tiny cucumbers, one quart tiny white onions, two heads cauliflower, two green peppers sliced. Put in brine for twenty-four hours, then scald in brine. To three quarts vin- egar add six tablespoonfuls mustard, three tablespoonfuls flour, one tablespoonful curry powder, half cup sugar or more. Mix mustard, flour, curry powder and sugar together and wet with vinegar to prevent lumping. Stir this into the boiling vinegar and cook until it thickens; then pour over the pickles. Put in glass jars. Mrs. Knoll. CHOW-CHOW. One quart small white onions, two quarts cucumbers (one quart small and one quart large) cut into pieces. Two quarts of green tomatos cut into quarters, one large or two small cau-202 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. liflowers picked in pieces, six green peppers cut in round pieces, one bunch of celery. Put in salt water twenty-four hours ; then scald in same water and drain. Mary Okby Knight. PASTE FOR CHOW-CHOW. Six tablespoonfuls mustard, one tablespoonful turmeric, half cup brown sugar, one cup flour. Stir to paste with a little cold vinegar. Then stir the paste in two quarts of boiling vinegar until smooth. Pour over the chow-chow and stir until well mixed. Mary Okey Knight. CHUTNEY. Twenty-four large ripe tomatos, four large onions, ten small green chile peppers, half pound seeded raisins, two cups gran- ulated sugar, 3^2 cups vinegar, two ounces ginger root, four tablespoons salt, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Cook all to- gether 3*4 hours Mrs. Robert Jones, Santa Monica. chutney (bengal). One pound brown sugar, half pound mustard seed, half pound salt, quarter garlic, quarter onions, quarter ground gin- ger, half pound raisins stoned and chopped fine, one ounce cayenne pepper, three pints vinegar, thirteen large apples, seven large ripe tomatos, quarter ounce turmeric, two ounces ground mustard. Poil in the vinegar the mustard in a muslin bag. Apples, onions and garlic chop fine, mix all well together, put through a colander and boil in the vinegar. Mrs. B. C. Shepard. CHUTNEY. Two pounds of raisins, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of tamarinds, two bottles of vinegar, or enough to mix with all the ingredients, moist; one-third of a pound long, green chile peppers; one-fourth pound salt, one-fourth pound pre- served ginger, one-eighth pound black pepper, one-third pound garlic, or less, to suit taste. Put tamarinds in the vine- gar, strain through an open cloth or sieve. Stone raisins, chop half very fine, cut the remainder in halves; chop green pep-203 PICKLES, CATSUPS AND RELISHES. pers and ginger very fine, pound or mash the garlic to a pulp. Mix all the ingredients well together and put in bottles or jars. This improves by age. CUCUMBER PICKLES. Wash carefully without bruising, and let stand over night in a brine of cold water and salt. Drain thoroughly. Heat in vinegar almost to a boil; take them out; sugar and spice the vinegar to taste; boil and pour over the pickles. Mrs. Phebe M. J. Jewett. CUCUMBER PICKLES. Take one gallon best cider vinegar to 200 or 300 small gher- kins ; two cups of sugar (white), quarter cup of celery seed, one ounce stick cinnamon, three or four red peppers, half cup white mustard seed il/2 teaspoons whole cloves. Let the gherkins soak in salt water (strong enough to carry an egg) over night; in the morning turn off the salt water and wipe dry. Put them in a kettle; add vinegar and spices. Let come to a boil and put in glass jars, putting some of the spices in each jar. Mrs. R. H. Herron. CUCUMBER PICKLES. Select firm cucumbers. Pour over them three mornings in succession a hot brine of one cup of salt to a gallon of water. The fourth morning pour hot vinegar in which there has been dissolved alum—a piece about the size of a large walnut to two gallons of vinegar. Mrs. Bentley Woodbridge. SWEET PICKLED CUCUMBERS. One thousand little gherkins; let them stand in strong brine twenty-four hours. Cover with vinegar and water, half and half, and boil up once. Mix together four pounds brown su- gar, one pound white mustard seed, one ounce cinnamon sticks, one ounce white ginger, two ounces each cloves and allspice (whole), two ounces white pepper, two handfuls horse- radish cut in small pieces, two handfuls small green peppers, four or five dozen small white onions, three dozen cloves of204 landmarks club cook book garlic. Put the cucumbers in jars alternately with above mix- ture. Cover with hot vinegar. Put a piece of alum size of a pea in each jar to harden the pickles. Mrs. Arthur Wells. PICKLES (BLUE GRASS RECIPE). Green good-sized cucumbers in the usual way. When ready to make, take them out of the brine and soak twelve hours. Cut in half-inch slices. Put into kettle a layer of cucumbers, layer of spices, layer of sugar; cover with good cider vinegar and put on fire to stew. Boil until cucumbers can be pierced with a straw. Prepare spices following way: To 150 cu- cumbers two ounces mace, two ounces nutmeg, two ounces black pepper, two ounces allspice, two ounces celery salt, one or two pounds of brown sugar and three large white onions. Miss Delia Clemons. SWEET PICKLED FIGS. For six pounds of fruit use three of sugar, and a pint of vinegar. Use whole cloves and cinnamon to taste. Have the syrup boiling hot before putting in the fruit, and cook it until it looks clear. Put it up in self-sealing jars or a stoneware crock, with enough syrup to cover. Pears, peaches and sweet apples may be put up in tbe same way. Mrs. C. F. Lummis. . FRENCH PICKLES. One peck of green tomatos sliced, six large onions, one tea- spoon of salt thrown on over night. Drain off in the morning all the water, then boil in two quarts of water and one quart of vinegar for fifteen minutes. Drain in colander. Then take four quarts of vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, il/2 table- spoons each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, ground mustard and half teaspoon red pepper. Pour on them and let cook fifteen minutes. Mrs. John H. Norton. FIG PICKLES. Ten pounds figs, five pounds brown sugar, one quart vine- gar, one ounce ground cinnamon, -half ounce each cloves and allspice. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices (in bags) together.fruits, jellies, etc. 205 Boil fruit until penetrable with a straw. Put fruit in jars and pour syrup over boiling hot. Mrs. Richard Rising. PICKLED FIGS. Five pounds fruit, three pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, two lemons sliced. Put in the vinegar and sugar, a bag of spices (two tablespoonfuls whole cloves, one tablespoonful all- spice, one teaspoonful mace and a handful of cinnamon broken into fine pieces). Put figs in the vinegar. Boil slowly two hours. Put in glass jars. Mrs. Wellington Burke. PICKLED FIGS. Two pounds sugar to one quart of vinegar. Put cloves, cin- namon and mace into a bag and scald in the vinegar and pour upon- the figs hot, three mornings in succession. The figs should not be quite ripe enough to eat. Mrs. Estabrook. FIG PICKLES. One and a half pints vinegar, two pounds sugar, seven pounds figs. Spices as for peach pickles. Put vinegar, sugar and spices in a kettle and let come to a boil. Add figs and cook slowly for two hours. Mrs. Frederick Gay. PICKLED GRAPES. Use Muscat grapes, pickled in the same way as peaches, only . the grapes are not put in the vinegar the fourth morning and cooked, Mrs. W. W. Thatcher. LEMON PICKLE. Take two dozen sound lemons, wipe dry, cut four incisions in each lemon lengthwise and one around the middle; fill the incisions with salt, place them in an earthen pan or bowl in a sunny place; leave them for a week, keeping them turned. Then sprinkle over them two ounces of turmeric and put them in a jar after dividing them into quarters. Add one root of garlic divided into cloves, one dozen eschalots, each stuck with a clove; boil in two quarts of white vinegar, one-half pound bruised ginger, two ounces black pepper-corns and one-half206 landmarks club cook book. pound bruised mustard seed. Let vinegar boil for two or three minutes, then pour it at once on lemons, leaving them until next day. Then add a dessert spoon of chile sauce. Either seal in quart jars or cover jar with a bladder. The longer they are kept the better they are. Mrs. M. T. Allen. MIXED PICKLE (SPANISH). Take one dozen and half large cucumbers out of the brine; soak four or five hours. Take two heads of cabbage chopped fine; let it lie in salt eight hours; three dozen seed onions, seven pods green peppers soaked in salt water. Squeeze out with your hands. Then place in kettle layer of above articles alternating with layer of seasoning, composed of two ounces white mustard seed, one ounce celery seed, half pound box of mustard, one ounce of turmeric, two pounds of brown sugar mixed with good cider vinegar. Boil half hour, till it thickens. Bottle. Miss. Delia Clemons. SWEET PICKLES—PINEAPPLE. Slice the fruit and also cut into small pieces. Put in a large stoneware dish. For the syrup take two pounds sugar to one pint vinegar, and spice with one heaping teaspoon each ground cinnamon and mace, half a teaspoon cloves and a piece of gin- ger. Pour this, hot, over the fruit, and let stand till the next day. Then pour it off and heat again and pour over the fruit. Repeat this for four successive days; then put away in jars. Mrs. Richard Rising. OYSTER COCKTAILS. For every one hundred small oysters take four tablespoon- fuls tomato catsup, one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, one table- spoonful Worcestershire sauce, the juice of two lemons, two or three drops of tabasco sauce and one cup of oyster liquor. Drain the oysters free from their liquor and strain the required amount before using. Mix the cocktails fully half an hour before using, and thoroughly chill. Mrs. E. B- Millar. CALII'ORNIA OYSTER COCKTAILS. Drain liquor from the oysters, pour over them tomato cat- sup, Worcestershire sauce, a dash of tabasco and a little lemon207 FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. juice. Thin with oyster juice to taste and serve very cold. Allow at least twenty oysters for each person. Mrs. George J. Denis. PICKLED PEACHES. Use yellow clingstones. Pour over them three mornings in succession a hot syrup made of one pound sugar, one pint vin- egar and a hag of spices (two tablespoonfuls whole cloves, one tablespoonful allspice, one teaspoonful mace, one handful cin- namon broken into fine pieces). The fourth morning put the peaches into the vinegar and cook them a few minutes. Mrs. W. W. Thatcher, Hopland. PICKLED PEARS. Ten pounds Bartlett pears, one quart vinegar, five pounds sugar, half cup mixed whole cloves, allspice, mace and stick cinnamon. (Put these in a bag and boil in the syrup). Put on to boil for half an hour; then add the pears, and when well scalded remove them and pack in glass jars. Boil the syrup down until there is enough to cover the fruit. Pour it over and seal at once. Mrs. Kemp, Los Antreles. PLUM BUNGO. Seven pounds little German plums, pits removed; three and one-half pounds sugar, one tablespoon cloves and one of cin- namon, one of allspice. Cook two and a half or three hours. When done, stir in one pint of vinegar. h. c. w. GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. Two gallons sliced green tomatos, salted over night. In morning put in kettle with one quart vinegar and one pint wa- ter. Let come to a boil, then drain off and in a clean kettle put the tomatos, one and a half pints vinegar, half pint water, one pint sugar, two tablespoonfuls mustard, one tablespoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, two large onions. F. T. A. TOMATO SAUCE. Ten medium ripe tomatos, three green peppers, two small onions, one pint vinegar, pinch of salt. Chop tomatos, peppers, onions together; heat vinegar to boiling and put in materials and heat well; then bottle while hot. Mrs. Andrew Glassell.208 landmarks club cook book. TOMATO SOY. Two gallons sliced green tomatos, twelve good sized onions sliced, two quarts vinegar, one quart sugar, two tablespoonfuls salt, two tablespoonfuls ground mustard, two small spoonfuls black pepper, one tablespoonful allspice, one tablespoonful cloves. Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring to pre- vent burning. Put away in glass jars. Mrs. L. A. Craig, Los Ang-eles. TOMATO SOY. Take a bushel of ripe tomatos, cut them in slices without skinning. Sprinkle the bottom of a large tub with salt, strew in the tomatos, and over each layer of about two inches thick sprinkle half a pint of salt and three onions sliced, without tak- ing off the skins. When the bushel of tomatos is thus prepared, let them remain for three days, then put them into a large iron pot, in which they must boil from early in the morning till night, constantly stirring to prevent their sticking. The next morning pass the mixture through a sieve, pressing it to ob- tain all the liquor you can, and add to it one ounce of cloves, quarter of a pound of allspice, quarter of a pound of whole black pepper and a small wineglass of cayenne. Let it boil slowly and constantly during the whole day. In the evening put into a suitable vessel to cool, and the day after bottle and cork it well. Place it in a cool situation during the warm weather. The soy will keep for years, provided it has been boiled slowly and sufficiently in the preparation. Should it ferment, it must be boiled the second time. Miss Delia Clemons. PICKLED WALNUTS. Gather the walnuts when the sun is on them and before the shell is hard, which may be known by running a needle into them. Put them into strong salt and water for nine days. Stir them twice a day, and change the water every three days. Then place them on a hair sieve and let them remain in the air until they turn black, which will be in about twelve hours. Pierce each nut through in several places with a needle and put into glass jars. Boil the vinegar with spices for ter^ minutes. Cover the nuts and divide the spices equally. When quite coldfruits, jellies, etc. 209 tie down securely and store in a dry place. To two quarts of vinegar allow half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of bruised ginger, half an ounce black pepper, one ounce salt, half an ounce cloves, half an ounce mustard seed, quarter ounce nut- meg, half an ounce long peppers. Mrs. William S. Cross. SALZA. Six ripe tomatos, four green peppers, salt, raw onion. Scald and skin the tomatos, squeeze out part of thin juice. Roast the peppers on coals or in an oven until light brown, then throw into cold water. Skin and chop them with the tomatos quite fine, strain off the water, add salt and a little finely chopped onion. To be eaten with all kinds of meats. It will keep sev- eral days. Charlotte Workman. SPICED CURRANTS. Five pounds currants, four pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves, one and a quarter pounds raisins. Boil until it jells. Mrs. Anna H. Obear, Los Angreles. SPICED FIGS. To seven pounds of white figs, or peeled black figs, allow four pounds of sugar, two ounces of stick cinnamon, one ounce of whole cloves and one pint of vinegar. Put the figs in a large stone jar with the spices tied in bags. Boil the vinegar and sugar together for five minutes and pour it over the figs and spices. Do this for three days in succession; then put all in a kettle and cook slowly until the figs are tender. Bottle and seal. Peaches are good done the same way. Mrs. E. B. Millar. SPICED PEACHES. Take yellow Crawfords, peel, cut in two and stone. To seven pounds of peaches allow three and one-half pounds sugar, one pint of vinegar, two ounces whole cloves, two ounces stick cmnamon. Place in a stone crock a layer of peaches, then a part of the spices, then another layer of peaches and more spices, until all are used. Make a syrup of the sugar and vin- egar and pour boiling over the spiced fruit. Let this stand,210 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. covered, twenty-four hours. Pour off the syrup, boil again and pour over the peaches. The third morning, after the syrup boils, cook the peaches half an hour in it, then remove the peaches and boil down the syrup. Again pour the boiling syrup over the peaches, which should have been in the jar in which they are to be kept. Miss Kate Van Nuys. SPICED PLUMS. Five pounds of plums pricked with a needle, two and a half pounds brown sugar, one quart of vinegar, two ounces of cloves, one ounce stick cinnamon, one ounce of mace, one ounce of whole allspice. Boil the sugar and spices in the vinegar and pour over the plums. Repeat boiling the syrup and pouring over the plums three days. Mrs. J. D. Hooker. SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. Two gallons of cucumbers, one gallon of best cider vinegar, ten pounds brown sugar, ten cents each of mace, ginger, all- spice, cinnamon, celery seed, black pepper, five cents’ worth cloves, all whole. Drain cucumbers thoroughly from liquor they come in. Put vinegar, sugar and spices in five-gallon stone jar and add cucumbers. Stir two or three times a week for two weeks, and pickles will then be ready for use, although they improve with time. The same vinegar can be used with fresh cucumbers repeatedly by adding more sugar and spices. Mrs. Walter S. Newhall. SPICED TOMATOS. Seven pounds pared ripe tomatos, three and a half pounds brown or white sugar. Boil an hour and a half, stirring occa- sionally. Add a pint of cider vinegar, one teaspoon ground cinnamon, one teaspoon whole cloves. Boil hour and a half, stirring all the time. stuffing for olives. Take large pitted olives and fill them with a mixture made from the yolk of one hard boiled egg, half dozen capers chopped fine, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a heaping teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of butter and one-half tea- spoonful of anchovy paste. This makes a delicious relish. Mrs. Ducommun.CHAPTER XIX. BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. BREAD, BISCUITS, ETC. The first and indispensable requisite of good bread is good flour; the second, good yeast. It should be mixed as soft as can be handled; it will rise sooner, be lighter, more digestible, and keep fresh longer. Knead thoroughly. Put in warm place to rise. Bake in a moderate oven, with a steady fire. Ordinary sized loaves require one hour. Biscuit requires a quicker oven. BREAD. One cake Royal yeast, six cups water, half cup milk, one teaspoon salt, a small piece of butter, flour. Make a thin bat- ter of flour and three cups of water; to this add the yeast, which has been softened in warm water. When light, add the salt, butter, milk, three cups of water, and flour enough to make very stiff. Let it rise over night. In the morning add more flour. Knead .thoroughly and make into loaves. This recipe will make most delicious rolls. YEAST BREAD. One cake yeast, one pint luke-warm water, one quart new milk, one quart cold water, one tablespoon salt, two tablespoons sugar, flour, butter or lard. At noon soak the yeast in the warm water fifteen minutes, then stir in flour sufficient to make a stiff batter. Set it in a warm place (not too warm) until very light. In the evening scald the milk and add it, with the water, salt, sugar and flour, enough to knead. Knead it half an hour, then rub the top of the dough with butter or lard, to prevent its drying. In the morning knead another half hour, divide into six loaves, and when sufficiently light bake one hour in a hot oven. When taken from the oven, wet the tops of the loaves with sweet milk or butter to soften the crust.212 landmarks club cook book. BREAD STICKS. Four cupfuls flour, quarter cup of butter, one of milk, quar- ter cake of compressed yeast, three tablespoons cold water, one tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt (scant measure), white of one egg. Melt the butter in the milk. Dissolve the yeast in the water. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth. Add all the ingredients to the flour. Knead well, and let the dough rise over night. In the morning make into balls the size of large walnuts. Roll these into sticks a foot long. Place them two inches apart in long pans. Let them rise half an hour in a cool place. Bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. They should be quite dry and crisp. HOP YEAST. Steep half a cupful loose hops in one quart boiling water, in a granite kettle, for five minutes. Mix one cupful of flour, one-fourth of a cupful of sugar and one tablespoonful of salt. Strain the hop water, and pour it, boiling hot, into the flour mixture. Boil one minute, or until thick. When cooled, add one cupful yeast or one cake magic yeast. POTATO YEAST. Six good sized potatos, grated fine. Pour over them one quart of boiling hop-water (not too strong, or it will make the bread dark). Add one-half cup of salt, and one cup of sugar. Stir it well, and when cool, add one yeast cake, or one cup of fresh yeast, or one cake magic yeast. Let it rise, and cork tight and keep in a cool place. Mrs. F. J. Wagner. MRS. MOSSIN'S RYE BREAD. One quart rye flour, tablespoon of salt, half a magic yeast cake dissolved in warm water. Make a batter quite thick, using water hot as you can keep your fingers in. Let stand over night. In the morning dissolve half a cake compressed yeast, one pint sour cream, equal parts of white and of rye flour to knead. Let rise one hour. Bake two hours in mod- erate oven.213 BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. CREAM BREAD. Dissolve a piece of 'butter the size of a walnut in one quart of scalding milk; add one pint of cold water. When cool, so that the flour will not scald, add two quarts of sifted flour and beat until very smooth. Dissolve one cake of compressed yeast in a little tepid water, and add to sponge and set in warm place for two hours. Then add to sponge one tablespoon of sugar, one tablespoon of salt, a lump of soda the size of a bean dissolved in a teaspoon of water, and stir in sifted flour until the mass can be handled. Knead twenty minutes or longer if it seems sticky, then let it rise two hours, when it will be ready to form into loaves. This amount should make three good sized loaves and a pan of rolls. Use very little flour when you make the bread into the pans. Knead each loaf five minutes; let them rise thirty minutes, and bake one hour. When taken out of the oven rub top crust with sweet butter and let cool without covering. Mrs. W. P. Craft. WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. Make a sponge with one cake yeast, one large potato boiled and mashed fine, one pint warm water, made into stiff batter with flour. Det batter rise all night. In the morning add one quart warm water, two cups brown sugar, four tablespoonfuls of salt and one teaspoon soda. Then stir in whole wheat flour to make a very stiff batter. Let rise again, but do not allow it to get too light. This recipe makes four loaves. BUNS. One pint milk, one cup sugar, half cup yeast, flour to make stiff batter. Let it rise over night. In the morning add butter size of an egg, a pinch of soda, little salt and currants. Knead until tender; cut into small pieces; roll into balls ; place in pans to rise. When very light, bake quickly. Mrs. J. D. Hooker. ROLLS. Take one pint of bread dough, after it has risen. Into this put one-half cup warm milk, two tablespoons of butter and two tablespoons sugar. Mix all together, but not quite as stiff214 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. as ordinary bread dough. Let rise. Then roll up in balls about the size of an egg and let rise again. Roll out and turn over in Parker House shape. Charlotte E. Hahn. PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. Two quarts flour, piece of butter twice the size of an egg, one tablespoon white sugar, one pint cold boiled milk, half cup yeast. Mix at night, putting butter, sugar, milk and yeast together into flour, mixing in the butter with a knife, not the hand. Mold fifteen minutes in the morning and in warm weather set in a cool place. Mold again early in the afternoon, and then roll out. Cut thin and rather large; put a bit of but- ter in the middle of each before folding over. Let them rise in the pans until time to bake. Mrs. M. H. E. POTATO ROLLS. One cup flour, one cup mashed potatos, three-quarters cup butter or lard, one cup sweet milk, two eggs well beaten, half (scant) cup sugar, salt to taste, half cake of compressed yeast dissolved in half cup luke-warm water. Mix flour, butter, potatos, sugar, salt and eggs; then milk, then yeast. Set to rise for two hours; make into a soft dough by adding about one quart of flour and set to rise again. Bake in small rolls in quick oven. Mrs. Bonsall. SALLY LUNN. Piece of raised dough size of quart cup; add three eggs, two tablespoons sugar, piece of butter size of a small egg. Work it well. Let it rise again and put in large biscuit pan. Let it rise very light once more and bake fifteen minutes. Cut in squares and serve very hot. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. SALLY LUNN. Two eggs, one tablespoonful each of butter and lard, two tablespoonfuls sugar and a little salt, one-half teacupful sweet milk, flour enough to make stiff batter. Then add one-half teacup of home made yeast. Let rise and mold/ like light bread; shape in pie pans. (One-quarter cake compressed yeast if you do not have home made). Miss Delia Clemons.215 BREAD, ROLES, ETC. BOSTON BROWN BREAD. ' Two cups sweet milk, one cup sour milk, two cups corn meal, one cup flour, three-quarters cup New Orleans molasses, one teaspoonful soda, a little salt. Steam for three hours. Cora T. Caswell. BROWN BREAD (QUICKLY MADE). One cup graham, one cup rye, one cup corn meal, one cup sour milk, half cup water, one cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little warm water. Bake thirty-five min- utes in four well buttered one-pound baking powder boxes with the lids on, and ten minutes with lids off just before done. Use extra corn meal and graham if you have no rye. Miss Maurice. BROWN BREAD (KENTUCKY RECIPE). Two quarts graham flour (unsifted), one pint sour milk, in which dissolve an even teaspoonful of soda; one tumbler New Orleans molasses, in which dissolve one teaspoonful of ginger; tablespoonful of salt. Mix all together with spoon until thick batter, and bake in buttered pans. Bake in even oven as for bread. Takes longer to cook than wheat bread, and should be baked in long, narrow pans, each loaf to itself. When done the loaf will not give on pressing the top. BROWN BREAD. One cup sour milk, one sweet milk, one cup rye flour, one and one-half of graham, one and a half of corn meal, one tea- spoon of soda in three-quarters of a cup of molasses, little salt. Steam three hours. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. CORN BREAD. flake one and a half teacups of sifted meal (the yellow is the best). Add salt and a large tablespoonful of lard. Pour over this a cupful of boiling water, stirring the meal so that all should have some of the water. Sour milk with an even tea- spoonful of soda (more or less, according to the milk) dis- solved in boiling- water is added to the scalded meal until the consistency of mush. Beat the whites and yolks of two eggs separately; mix together and beat again. Add them to the216 landmarks club cook book. batter, which should now be not quite so thin as hot cake bat- ter. Pour into a pan shrieking hot, with plenty of grease; bake twenty or thirty minutes; cut in squares and serve, very hot. Mrs. Williamson Dunn CORN BREAD. One pint sour milk, one pint corn meal, scant half pint flour, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Mix the above to stand over night. In the morning add two eggs, one table- spoonful melted butter; soda, one and a half even teaspoonfuls in water. MRS. KIN read's EGG BREAD. Four large tablespoons of sifted corn meal. Pour over this enough boiling water to moisten it and beat until it is cool. Add four large tablespoons of cooked hot fine hominy and beat well. Then add a lump of sweet lard or butter (lard is preferable if very sweet) the size of an egg, and salt, and four eggs well beaten. Last add one coffee cup of sweet milk and stir well. Bake quick in a hot oven in two buttered tins, and serve in the tins, as it should be so much like custard that it cannot be taken out. Eat with plenty of sweet butter. Mrs. Richard Rising. GRAHAM BREAD. One pint sour milk, one-half cupful molasses, one level tea- spoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful salt, two and on^-half cupfuls graham flour, sifted with the soda. Add the chaff if there is not very much. Bake in baking powder tins (pound size), in a slow oven from one hour to one hour and a quarter. Mrs. R. H. Herron. SPIDER BREAD. Two-thirds cup corn meal, quarter cup flour, two cups milk, quarter teaspoon salt, two eggs well beaten, two tablespoons baking powder. Sift flour and corn meal well together, add other ingredients and put into a well buttered spider and stand on stove five minutes. Then pour over top one cup of cream and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Mrs. Harry Ross, San Francisco. CRACKED WHEAT MUFFINS. One cup cold cracked wheat (can use cooked rice) ; add one cupful warm water, one tablespoonful of shortening (lard217 bread, rolls, etc. or butter), two tablespoonfuls sugar, little salt. Stir in as much flour as you can; add quarter yeast cake. Rise over night. Put in muffin pans first thing in the morning; let rise until time to bake for breakfast. Miss Maurice. HOE CAKE. Scald one-third of the meal with hot water; add the rest of the meal, a handful of flour and salt to taste; mix with cold water to the consistency of a very thick batter. Clean and grease old-fashioned “nigger hoe,” spread the cake on it and pat it smooth. Set on top of hot coals, and when brown on bottom turn with knife and brown the other side. May be baked in spider or on top of stove. BEATEN BISCUITS. One quart flour, teaspoon salt, lard the size of an egg, cold milk to make stiff dough; beaten until blisters. Bake slowly twenty-five minutes. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. AFTERNOON TEA RUSKS. Four cups flour, half cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking- powder, two eggs, one cup milk. Sift dry ingredients, put in butter, beat eggs, mix in milk. Stir these gradually into flour, etc. Roll and cut out one inch thick. Bake, split open and bake again until crisp and brown on the inner side. Keep in air-tight tins. Kate E. Whitaker. BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. One pint flour, half teaspoon salt, two teaspoons baking- powder, mix one rounded tablespoon of butter, add enough milk to make soft dough, turn on board, roll thin, cut, butter on half, put another on top, bake ten minutes. Mrs. Ozro W. Childs. BREAKFAST PUFFS. Two cups flour, two cups sweet milk, three eggs, one salt- spoon of salt. Make a batter of the flour and milk; add beaten yolks, then beaten whites, fill hot iron muffin rings half full and bake half hour in a quick oven. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh.218 landmarks club cook book. GRAHAM BISCUIT. One quart flour,, two teaspoons cream tartar, one of soda, one pint of milk, two tablespoons lard or butter, salt to taste, two tablespoons molasses. Bake three-quarters hour. Mrs. J. D. Hooker. LIGHT GEMS. One egg beaten very light, one and a half cups buttermilk or sour milk, one even teaspoon soda, one even teaspoon bak- ing powder, flour enough for a stiff batter, half teaspoon salt. Bake fifteen minutes in quick oven. Mrs. Sumner Hunt. POP-OVERS. One cup flour, one large egg, one cup of milk, one level tea- spoonful of salt. Mix all together and bake about thirty min- utes in a moderate oven. Use gem pans. Harriet S. Bishop. GERMAN PUFFS. Mix three eggs, add one saltspoon of salt and half pint of milk. Stir gradually into half pint of pastry flour, and beat with egg beater until smooth. Pour into smoking hot oiled gem pans and bake in a moderately quick oven twenty-five min- utes. Nannie M. Griffith, Johannesburg. MUSH MUFFINS. Pour boiling water on one pint of white corn meal; then stir well until perfectly smooth. Add a lump of butter about the size of an egg, three eggs well beaten, one cup of sweet milk, a little salt. Bake in gem tins in a hot oven. Mrs- J. B. Duke. JOHNNY CAKES. Two eggs, half cupful sugar, half cup shortening, one cup- ful flour, one of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, half teaspoonful salt. Mix into a batter with corn meal. Bake either in muffin rings or in a shallow pan, three-quarters of an hour in moderate oven. h. c. w. CORN MEAL MUFFINS. One and a half cups white meal, scalded until mush. When cool add salt, two tablespoons sugar, three eggs, one-third cupbread, rolls, etc. 219 flour, two tablespoons baking powder, milk to thin until like pancake batter. Grease muffin rings, put batter in each; bake ten minutes. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. SQUASH MUFFINS. One cup of squash sifted, three cups flour, one cup milk (a little more if squash is dry), two tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon butter, one egg, two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in gem pans. M. W. T. Macconaid. SCOTCH SHORT CAKE. Half pound sugar, one pound butter, two pounds flour. Cream the butter and sugar and then add flour; make into cakes about three-quarters inch thick and bake in pie tins. In serving, break; do not cut. H. R. B. SCOTCH SHORT CAKE (ABERDEEN). Seven ounces flour, one ounce rice flour, quarter pound but- ter, three ounces sugar, one egg (yolk). Mix butter and sugar to a cream, add egg, then gradually sift in flour. Work to- gether like cooky dough, roll about half an inch thick and cut in squares. Bake in slow oven. . Mrs. B. C. Shepard WAFFLES. One quart flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, half tea- spoonful salt, level teaspoonful granulated sugar, two heap- ing tablespoonfuls butter. Rub these ingredients well into the flour; then add one glass of milk and the yolks of three eggs, and stir until the batter is smooth. It should be a little thinner than for pancakes. Have hot waffle irons well greased, and immediately before frying beat the whites of the eggs until stiff and stir in the batter. Emma Wineburgh. CORN WAFFLES. One pint sifted flour, milk enough to make a thin batter, two eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful of melted butter, a lit- tle salt. Gradually mix the milk with the flour until there is a smooth paste, then add the salt, the butter and lastly the eggs, mixed with a cupful grated corn. Have a waffle iron hot; butter well, or grease with salt pork. 15 Mrs. E. D. Neff.220 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. WAFFLES (SOUR MILK). One and a half cups clabber milk; add flour until a not too soft batter, stir well, add tablespoon melted butter, yolks four eggs, and whites beaten well. Just before baking add two even teaspoons baking powder well stirred in. Bake in hot irons. Mrs. Jerry Codroy. AUNT CLARISSEY'S CORN FLOPPERS. One pint sifted corn meal (scalded), half a teacup sifted flour, one egg, a piece of butter or lard the size of an egg, a little salt, about half a pint of milk and water mixed, enough to make a very thin batter. Grease the griddle well and have it very hot. Bake quickly. Rice or grits is very nice mixed in. Mrs. Stephen M. White. SOUTHERN GRIDDLE CAKES. One pint white corn meal, three-quarters of a pint of sour milk, one small teaspoonful of soda in the milk, stirred till it foams, two eggs, salt to taste. Have the griddle hot and well greased. Mrs. J. B. Ddke. RHODE ISLAND SPAT-OUTS (1776.) One pint of sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls wheat flour, two eggs well beaten, Indian meal to make a stiff batter, a little salt. Spat into round cakes half an inch thick, and fry in hot lard, like doughnuts. Split and eat warm, with butter. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh. FRITTERS. Half cup milk, two tablespoons sugar, small dessertspoon butter, one teaspoon baking powder, salt and a dash of nut- meg. Flour to make a batter as stiff as cup cake. Take a dessertspoon of the batter at a time and fry in deep, hot fat. Can be served with syrup or any nice pudding sauce. Mrs. W. H. Burnham, Orange, Cal. GRAHAM CRACKERS. Five cups graham flour, one cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup cold water, one teaspoon ful of soda. Roll as thin as pos- sible. Bake like cookies. Miss Ellis.CHAPTER XX. BEVERAGES. COFFEE. Allow one tablespoonful of coffee to each person. The cof- fee when ground should be measured, put in the pot, and boiling water poured over it in the proportion of three-quarters of a pint to each tablespoonful. The instant it boils take the pot off, uncover and let it stand a minute or two; then cover, put it back in the fire and boil again. Let it stand for five minutes to settle. It is then ready to pour out. Mrs M. J. Connell. VIENNA COFFEE. Allow one heaping teaspoonful of coffee for each person and one extra. Moisten the grounds with cold water and then stir in a beaten egg. Pour on this mixture one-half of the boiling water needed and let coffee stand five minutes at boil- ing point. Then add rest of boiling water and let stand five minutes or more (not boiling). To one cup of cream add the beaten white of half an egg. Put in the cups when serving and pour the coffee upon it. DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING TEA. To make a perfect cup of tea, the water must be fresh and quickly boiled, and the teapot hot—an earthen one being pref- erable. Put one teaspoonful of tea for each pint of water into the warm pot, pour in the boiling water and let stand from three to four minutes on the back part of the stove. Never allow to.boil. Serve tea from the first infusion, and, if a second cup is wanted, make fresh tea, unless you have transferred the liquid from the leaf before the tannin has had time to be extracted. Tea is a healthful beverage, if made and used as above; but as commonly used by the majority, it can be properly222 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. called a soup made of tea leaves. There is also more danger of too large a quantity of leaf being used than too little. Very few people like a strong tea. H. JEVNE. ICED TEA. After steeping, strain into a wide-mouthed bottle and keep on ice. Sweeten and serve without cream, filling cup with bits of ice. Or make an infusion quite strong, and pour into glasses in which cracked ice has been placed. CHOCOLATE. Take an ounce of chocolate to a cup of milk. Grate the chocolate, add two tablespoonfuls of water and dissolve over hot water. Mash to a smooth paste. Scald the milk and sweeten to taste. When the chocolate is smooth, add to it gradually half the milk, stirring all the while. Return this to the farina boiler with the remainder of the milk and cook for several minutes. Mill it or stir it well, and serve at once. To those chocolates not previously flavored with vanilla, a few drops of the extract improves the taste. In serving chocolate, shake a very little cinnamon over the filled cup, to make the beverage like the chocolate of Mexico and Havana. A very little flavoring of brandy may be added to the above or not, as one wishes. Mbs. E. B Mii-lab. LEMONADE. Five lemons, one orange, one-half pound loaf sugar, one pint water, one quart bottle Shasta water, ice. Make a syrup of the water and sugar, add the lemon rinds and let stand one hour. Then remove the rinds, add the strained juice of the lemons and the orange, cut in very thin slices. Pour the lem- onade into a bowl, having a block of ice in the center. Add strawberries if desired. The Shasta water should be added just before serving. FRUIT LEMONADE. One pint boiling water, one cup sugar, two quarts ice water, juice of three lemons, one can grated pineapple. Put sugarbeverages. 223 and boiling water over the fire and cook for five minutes, add lemon juice. When cold, add pineapple. When serving, add ice water and a dozen sliced strawberries. Miss Ellis. ORANGEADE. A pint of orange juice, juice of one lemon, and a pint of water. Sweeten to taste and just before serving stir in a well beaten egg. Serve very cold. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. MINT JULEP. Crush mint with the potato masher, add water. The water must be a light green when sufficient mint has been extracted. Always serve in water glasses. For eight juleps, use four glasses of green water, one dozen lumps sugar, juice of two lemons, two glasses whisky, cracked ice fine as snow. Each glass should have a sprig of mint and half thin slice of lemon on top. Mrs Jerry Conroy. ORANGE CORDIAL. The rind of eight good sized oranges, put in a gallon of California brandy; let it stand one week. Then make a gallon of syrup from eight pounds of granulated sugar and two and a half quarts of water. When cool, strain the brandy into the syrup, stir well and bottle. Not necessary to seal it. It is very nice to serve at lunch. Mrs. Emma Bangs. ORANGE LIQUEUR. One gallon brandy, five oranges, seven cups sugar. Put the oranges in whole and let them stand for six weeks, stirring occasionally. Then take the oranges out, strain and put in jars. Louise S. Holterhoff. claret CUP. One quart claret, one bottle of Belfast ginger ale, one sherry glass of vermouth ; fill bottle with cracked ice. Mrs, J. G. Mossin. CLARET CUP (EOR 20 PEOPLE). Three and a half pints water, three pints claret, three large cups sugar, one cup lemon juice, half cup sherry, one table-224 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. spoon rum, one tablespoon orange flavor extract. Orange or lemon flavor extract is made by filling a bottle with the fresh blossoms and then covering them with alcohol. J. F. W., Santa Barbara. CHAMPAGNE CUP (FOR 12 PEOPLE). One quart bottle champagne, one quart Dottle apollinaris wa- ter, half pint best cognac, one pint orange juice, one pint rasp- berry or strawberry juice, half cup lime juice, three-quarters pound sugar. Mix brandy, sugar and fruit juice, and bottle. Keep on ice for three days, then mix with champagne and apol- linaris and use. S. R. M., Santa Barbara. CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. Used on New Year’s Day in New York in the early sixties by an old New York beau. Half gallon old Jamaica rum, half gallon old Santa Cruz rum. The above proportions may be varied according to taste, one gallon of rum, however, being required. One gallon water, one small cup (demi tasse) of green tea, very strong drawn and strained, for above quan- tity of rum; juice of six lemons, thoroughly mixed with white granulated sugar; before mixing sweeten to the taste. Put in slices of lemon without the rind; large lump of ice to re- duce the strength. Just before serving, pour in one or more bottles of champagne, according to taste. Same proportions must be followed for a less quantity (except as to the rum above stated), particularly as to the green tea and lemons. The above, including melted ice and champagne, will make nearly three gallons of punch. Two bottles of champagne and the above make a very fine punch; excellent for a jolly good headache on the following morning. “Nunc est bibendum.’ (Copied verbatim from the original.) Mrs H. T. I,ee. PUNCH. One quart brandy, half pint Santa Cruz rum, one pound crushed sugar, one wineglass maraschino, one wineglass cura- 90a, one wineglass kirschwasser, two dozen Sicily lemons, three quart bottles champagne, black tea to taste—about one and a half quarts. Mrs. Emmeline Childs.225 beverages. PUNCH. One quart champagne, one pint rum, one pint cold tea, ten quarts lemonade, fruits. Mrs. Belle M. Jewett. EMPIRE PUNCH. Rub the peel of four oranges and two lemons in one and a half pounds of lump sugar, one pineapple cut in slices, one box of strawberries, two bottles of apollinaris, half gill of maras- chino, half gill of cura^oa, half gill of benedictine, half gill of rum, one bottle of brandy, six bottles of champagne, four bottles of tokay wine, two of Madeira, four of Chateau Lafite. Mix well, strain through a sieve; surround the bowl with ice; trim this with leaves from pineapple, strawberries, etc. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. FRUIT PUNCH. Two dozen oranges, one dozen lemons, three bananas, one can grated pineapple, one cup Ceylon tea, one pound sugar, four quarts apollinaris. This recipe will make six quarts of punch. Mrs. Emmeline Childs. GRAPEFRUIT PUNCH. Express the juice from the grapefruit, adding boiled sugar syrup until sweet enough. Flavor with sherry, maraschino or any wine preferred. Freeze, and just before the punch begins to harden add the well beaten whites of two eggs, for a gallon of punch. Serve in sherbet glasses, garnished with strawberries, shredded pineapple, etc. Mrs. George J. Denis. OHIO PUNCH. One pint brandy, one pint champagne, half pint St. Croix rum, one gill maraschino, one gill cura^oa (white), one and a half quarts lemon juice. Sweeten to taste. If too strong, add sparkling water. Four and a half large coffee cups of sugar, four dozen lemons. Add a pineapple if desired. Louise S. Holterhoff. WHITE PUNCH. A very delicious and delicate punch can be made with three bottles of California sauterne, one bottle of Chartreuse and a226 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. very little sugar. Just before serving, add cracked ice and three bottles of Club soda and a little fruit, a few raspberries, preserved cherries or small bits of pineapple, the latter being preferable. Mrs. W. P. Craft, Ontario. GLUE WINE. Eight cups claret, four cups water, one-half cup sugar, a stick of cinnamon, six cloves, three slices of lemon. Let all come to a boil. Serve hot. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. ORANGE WINE. Wash the oranges, cut in two and squeeze out the juice, being careful not to get in the oil from the rind. Let juice remain in tubs for eight or ten hours, until all of the fibrous matter can he skinned off. If you want a sweet wine, add five pounds granulated sugar to each gallon juice; if a mild, sour wine, add five pounds granulated sugar to each gallon, and then put one gallon of water to each gallon of juice. Strain the juice into a barrel and let it stand undisturbed for three months. In the hung make a hole into which fit a piece of rubber tubing about a foot long; put the outside end in a ves- sel of water. This tube is to allow the gas to escape, and will exclude the air and insects. When the juice has ceased to throw off gas, which can be determined by air bubbles com- ing from end of tube, bung it up tight and let it remain some time; then rack it off into bottles or barrels and keep in a cool place. Mrs. John Boal, National City. EGG NOG. Beat the yolks of four eggs and stir into them a quart of milk. Put in a double boiler and cook until a thin custard. Sweeten to taste. When cold, add a half pint French brandy, the beaten whites and a tablespoonful of Jamaica rum. Serve very cold. Mrs, George Sinsabacgh. EGG NOG (AS SERVED IN THE SOUTH). Six eggs, beaten smartly; to the yolks add three table- spoons of sugar, and to the whites three tablespoons of su-beverages. 227 gar. Pour in brandy or whisky to taste, constantly stirring; then add half pint whipped cream, and lastly add whites, thor- oughly mixing. Grated nutmeg on top. Mrs. Ozro W. Childs. RASPBERRY SHRUB. To four quarts of fresh berries add two quarts best vinegar. Let stand four days. Strain through cloth (without squeez- ing) and add quart of sugar to quart of juice. Boil twenty minutes. Will keep without sealing. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Five quarts raspberries, one quart vinegar; to every quart of juice one and a half pounds sugar. Let the vinegar and berries stand twenty-four hours or longer. Extract juice and let stand over night. Then pour off clear juice; add sugar and let come to a boil. When cool, bottle and cork. Mrs. Koepfli. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. One gallon blackberry juice, four pounds sugar. Boil and skim. Add one ounce ground cloves, one ounce ground cin- namon, ten nutmegs, grated. Boil down until quite sticky; cool and settle. When cold, strain off and add one pint of brandy. Bottle. Miss Carrie E. Coleman. TAMARIND WATER. Pour a pint of boiling water on one quarter of a pound of preserved tamarinds; allow it to stand for half an hour, keep- ing quite hot; then strain off the water. It can be served hot or allowed to cool and served with cracked ice. In either case it is a refreshing and wholesome drink for the sick room.CHAPTER XXI. CANDIES. The materials used in the home manufacture of the finest quality of so-called French candy are neither expensive nor difficult to obtain. Aside from sugar, the basis of all confec- tions, these materials consist chiefly of flavors and colorings. These can be procured from your druggist or grocer. The basis of cream nuts, chocolate drops, buttercups, cream bars, cocoanut drops and many others is “fondant,” or, in other words, granulated sugar creamed. TO MAKE FONDANT. Take of granulated sugar four pounds, water one quart, cream tartar half teaspoon. Mix the sugar and water to- gether in a granite or porcelain kettle and put over a hot fire; when it comes to a boil, add the cream tartar. Let the syrup cook to the consistency of jelly, keeping the sides of the kettle wiped down with a cloth and cold water. Try the syrup by dropping into a cup of cold water; when it can be rolled into a ball, it is done and should be taken instantly from the fire and the kettle placed in a large vessel of cold water; now fla- vor with one tablespoon vanilla. While it is still warm—not hot—stir the mass briskly with a wooden spatula or paddle, always stirring in the same direction, until it is perfectly white and of a soft, creamy texture. Let the stirring be brisk and uninterrupted in order that the syrup may not granulate. After the sugar creams, turn it out on to a sheet of tin, or a cake board, and knead as you would dough or bread. When it is worked until perfectly smooth, the cream is ready for use, and should be put into an earthen jar and covered with a damp cotton cloth and closely covered. It will keep for weeks, and can be sliced like butter. CHOCOLATE CREAM DROPS. Balls the shape and size of small birds’ eggs are made of the fondant, and when they are hardened (which will be inCANDIES. 229 ten or twelve hours) they may be dipped in chocolate which has been melted; the vessel containing the melted chocolate being kept in a pan of hot water to prevent hardening. Throw the drops into the melted chocolate, one at a time and imme- diately with a bent wire or a table fork, and place them care- fully on a buttered paper to dry. Fruit drops of all kinds may be made in the same way, except that the fondant must be fla- vored with the desired fruit flavor, and instead of a chocolate coating, use fondant colored to represent the fruit—as red for strawberry, yellow for lemon or peach, etc. Melt the fondant to be used for coating, add the coloring and keep warm; but if it should become too stiff, add carefully a few drops of hot water. Mrs. W. T. Carter in “How We Cook in Los Angeles.” CREAM WALNUTS. Take from the fondant pieces the size wanted and roll them into little balls, then press upon them the half of a walnut ker- nel until flattened; set on edge to dry. Cream dates, cream figs, and cream almonds, are all made in the same way. CHOCOLATE CANDY. One cup sugar, quarter cup molasses, quarter cup butter, quarter cup rich milk. Boil twelve minutes, hard, without stirring. After boiling, stir in one cake of chocolate, and add nuts, also one teaspoonful of vanilla. After adding chocolate, nuts and vanilla, stir briskly and cook about four minutes. Then turn out on a buttered plate and mark off in squares be- fore entirely cool. Instead of cake chocolate, half cup of ground chocolate, also walnuts, may be used. Charlotte Workman. CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. Quarter pound Baker’s chocolate, quarter pound butter, one cup cream, one pound sugar, one cup molasses, one table- spoon vanilla, quarter teaspoon baking soda, eighth teaspoon cream tartar. Cut the chocolate and mix all the other insrre- dients together and boil rapidly for about half an hour. Add soda mixed with cream tartar. When done boiling, pour into buttered tins. When partly cool, turn out and cut into squares. Evelyn R. I,utz.230 landmarks club cook book. CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Whites of four eggs beaten stiff, then beat in gradually eight tablespoons granulated sugar, add gently two and a half blocks unsweetened Baker’s chocolate grated, and a large cup of chopped walnuts. Drop into well-greased tins or pans with a teaspoon and bake in quite moderate oven for about twenty minutes. This should make about fifty-five cakes. Never re- move from pans until quite cold. Paulinb M. Ldtz. Fudge. One cup and a half light brown sugar, same of white sugar, one-half cup of milk, tablespoon of butter, piece of unsweet- ened chocolate about two inches square. Bet the mixture boil until it hardens when dropped into cold water. Just before removing from fire, season with vanilla and stir in a cupful chopped English walnuts. Stir continually while cooking. Pour on buttered plates to cool. Adeiladb H. Brown. FUDGES. Four ounces chocolate, one tablespoonful butter, one cup molasses, half cup brown sugar, half cup milk. Cool, stirring until it hardens in water. Pour into buttered pan, and when cool, cut into blocks. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. KISSES. Whites of two eggs, into which beat gradually two cups powdered sugar and two tablespoons corn starch. Drop on well-buttered paper one teaspoonful to the kiss (two inches apart) ; place paper on a tin and bake in a moderate oven just long enough to turn a little yellow. KISSES. Beat the whites of three eggs to a very stiff snow; add lightly to this a teacup of granulated sugar and a teaspoon- ful of vanilla. Drop with a teaspoon, or use a pastry bag for fancy shapes. Drop on a board or on the back of granite pans that have been previously covered with smooth-surface wrap- ping paper. Let stand for a moment, dusting with a little dryCANDIES. 231 sugar. Place in a moderate oven from a half to three-quarters of an hour, then remove kisses with a sharp knife. Mrs. A. Haas. OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY. Tnto a kettle, holding at least four times the amount of mo- lasses to be used, pour a quantity of good Porto Rico molasses; place over the fire and boil slowly about half an hour, stirring constantly to diminish the quantity. If there is danger of its running over, remove to back of stove, or check the fire. Be careful not to let it burn, especially toward the close of its boiling. Drop a little in cold water; if brittle and will snap apart like a pipe-stem, add a small teaspoon of carbonate of soda to a quart of molasses. Stir quickly, and pour into greased pans to cool. As soon as cool enough to handle with- out burning the hands, pull. The more and faster it is pulled the lighter it will be in color. PEANUT BRITTLE. One cup granulated sugar, one cup chopped nuts. Mash or chop the peanuts or walnuts. Put the sugar in pan over the fire and stir until melted. When a liquid, stir in the peanuts quickly and pour on a tin sheet, spread out quite thin with a broad blade knife, dipped frequently into cold water. Cut into blocks. Pauline M. Lutz. PINOCHE. Four cups brown sugar, one tablespoon butter, one cup milk, one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls vanilla, two cups chopped walnuts. Boil the sugar, butter, salt and milk until it drops hard in cold water. When done, pour in the vanilla and walnuts and stir constantly until well mixed. Pour on a buttered plate and cut into squares. Charlotte Workman. PINOCHE. Three cups brown sugar, one cup white sugar, enough sweet milk to mix thoroughly. Cook, stirring constantly until it can he rolled between the fingers in water. Remove from fire, add a cup of broken walnut meats, stir until it begins to thicken, and pour into buttered pans. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh.232 Mrs. S. T. Rorer. landmarks club cook book. PEPPERMINTS. One pound of sugar, nine tablespoons of water. Boil from six to eight minutes. A pinch of cream of tartar when taken from the stove, with half a teaspoon of the oil of peppermint, or less if that is too strong. Beat until it is a creamy white and drop with a teaspoon upon a clean, bright tin sheet. POP CORN BALLS. Four cups New Orleans molasses, butter size of a walnut. Boil until it strings or settles in cold water, then add little baking soda and stir. Take off and mix with even dishpanful popcorn thoroughly. Grease hands and make into balls, wrap- ping each with waxed paper. Evelyn R. Lutz. CANDIED VIOLETS. Select the desired quantity of perfect sweet violets, spread them on an inverted sieve, and stand in the air until slightly dried, but not crisp. Make a syrup from a half pound gran- ulated sugar and a half pint of water, boil until it spins a thread; then take each violet by the stem, dip down into the hot syrup, put back on the inverted sieve, which should be slightly oiled, and stand aside for several hours. If the vio- lets then look preserved and clear, they will not require a second dipping, but if they look dry, as though a part of the leaves were not saturated with the syrup, dip them a second time. Then melt a half cup of fondant, add two drops of essence of violet and sufficient water, drop at a time to give the fondant a thin, grayish color; then dip the violets into this one at a time, dust with sifted crystallized sugar (or granu- lated sugar) and place on oiled paper to harden. Mrs. S. T. Rorer. CANDIED ROSE LEAVES. Proceed precisely the same as for candied violets, using a fine wire to lift the leaves in and out the syrup. The fondant must be flavored with drops of essence of rose, and colored with two drops cochineal.CANDIES. 233 Mrs. J. P. Waterman. GRILLED PECANS. Blanch the nuts; one cup of sugar, half cup of water; boil for a few minutes; drop in the nuts and leave for ten min- utes ; remove from fire, stir till it thickens and clings to nuts. Spread on wax paper to cool. Mrs. Belle M. Jewett. SALTED ALMONDS. Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water over them, let them stand a few minutes and drain. Do the same with cold water. Then remove the skins and dry them on a clean towel. The next day put them in a shallow pan, sprinkle liberally with salt, and put on pieces of butter as large as the end of a finger quite near together. Put in a hot oven. Watch them carefully, and when they begin to brown, shake them often until they are an even light brown. If too much salt is on them when done, place them in a clean towel and rub them. Mrs. J. H. Barbour. SALTED BRAZIL NUTS. To each cupful of blanched nuts add one teaspoon salad oil, let stand half an hour; one tablespoon of salt to each cup of nuts, pinch of cayenne pepper to each quantity of salt, well mixed with nuts. Put in oven till brown. Mrs. Belle M. Jewett. SALTED PEANUTS. Shell and blanch raw peanuts; cover with boiling water with a little salt and teaspoon butter to a quart. Boil half hour; take out nuts and drain. Brown in oven with olive oil.CHAPTER XXII. FOR THE PICNIC LUNCHEON. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Cream one-fourth pound (one-half cup) of butter. Beat into this, very gradually, the flesh of six anchovies, a table- spoonful of fine-chopped parsley, and tablespoonful of chop- ped capers. To prepare the anchovies, drain off the oil, pick off the fins, separate the two fillets from the bones, press the fish through a sieve, or mash very fine with a fork. Spread over slices of bread, or crackers. stuffed eggs. Take as many eggs as you wish, and boil twenty minutes. Remove the shells and cut in half, lengthwise, leaving the whites unbroken. Take out the yolks and powder them with a spoon; mix with them butter, salt, pepper, mustard, vine- gar, and oil to taste, with chopped olives and a little chopped parsley. This makes a thick paste with which to fill the boiled whites. Press together and twist white paper about them. Mrs. R. Weber. PRESSED MEAT FOR LUNCHEON OR PICNIC. Boil together a ham and tongue. Cut off all fat, and chop together very fine; dissolve one box gelatine, pour into it one coffee cup of the liquor meat was boiled in ; add to the chopped meat. Mix thoroughly and put in press. Mrs. Belle M. Jewett. POTTED MEATS. An excellent substitute for the expensive potted meat fill- ings can be made from the odds and ends of cold meat minced and seasoned with Worcestershire Sauce. Another appetiz- ing sandwich is made from cold sausage crushed fine and spread on the buttered side of a biscuit. Boiled fresh cod or salmon made into a mince or paste used in combination with egg is always palatable. Thin slices of cucumber that have235 FOR THE PICNIC PUNCHEON. been upon the ice an hour or more are an addition to this filling. Good sandwiches can be made from all kinds of sal- ads, and their name is legion. VEAL LOAF. Take three pounds of veal and one-half pound of smoked ham. Put through a meat chopper, carefully removing all shreds. Add one cup bread crumbs, half cup butter, two beaten eggs, a little salt and a teaspoon of good mixed sea- soning. Mold in loaf and bake two hours, basting as soon as there is sufficient liquid in the pan to do so. Florence Collins Porter. SANDWICHES. For winter sandwiches use chicken, tongue, ham, beef, mut- ton, duck, celery, caviar. For summer, cherries, pineapple and plums blend. Fruits should be chopped. The sandwiches may be cut in different shapes with an ordinary biscuit cutter, any style of crescent, which may be halved; the plain rounds may be halved or quartered. Plain finger shapes are always popular, and good sized squares are probably best of all for hungry picnickers. CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICH. A can of soft, rich cheese that you can mash walnuts in. Stir them well together (having chopped the walnuts) and spread between thin slices of bread a day old. Very nice. Mrs. E. C. Bangs, Pasadena. CHEESE SANDWICH. Grate desired amount of cream cheese, add a dash of cay- enne pepper and soften with a little melted butter. Spread rather thin between thin slices of buttered bread. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. CHICKEN SANDWICH. Chop cold, cooked chicken very fine. Pound until smooth, adding gradually enough thick, sweet cream to make a paste. To each pint add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, a teaspoonful of onion and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. m;236 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. CUCUMBER SANDWICH. Slice cucumbers that are small and thin. That there may be no large seeds, peel and slice as thinly as possible into ice wa- ter, and let them stand ten minutes. Drain very dry and place them between thin slices of bread which have been spread with mayonnaise dressing. t. s. w. EGG SANDWICH. Chop fine a very little onion and two hard-boiled eggs. Mix with salad dressing until a paste. Spread on thin slices of buttered bread. A little chopped cress may be used instead of the onion. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. FIG SANDWICH. Scrape out the soft portion of a dozen figs, rejecting the skins; rub this to a paste. Cut the thinnest slices possible, from a loaf of either white or brown bread ; butter and remove the crusts. Spread over the paste, roll the bread carefully, pressing for a moment until there is no danger of the roll opening. Then roll it in a piece of tissue paper, twisting the ends as you would an old fashioned motto, or it may be tied with a piece of baby ribbon. lettuce sandwich. Butter thin slices of bread, cover one slice with a crisp let- tuce leaf. Spread the leaf with mayonnaise dressing and lay on the other side of the sandwich. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. NUT AND CHEESE SANDWICH. Grind or chop walnuts or peanuts. Spread over thin slices of bread and sprinkle with Swiss cheese. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh. OLIVE SANDWICH. Chop or cut into small pieces one quart of ripe, split olives. Mix lightly with one-half pint of mayonnaise dressing and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed to a paste with two tablespoonfuls of thick, sweet cream. Season with paprika and a little salt, unless the olives are very salt. h c. w.FOR THE PICNIC LUNCHEON. 237 SARDINE SANDWICH. Mix yolks of hard-boiled eggs with equal quantity of sar- dines, rubbed to a paste. Season with lemon juice and spread on thin slices of bread. Cut in narrow strips. SHRIMP AND LOBSTER SANDWICH. One can meat chopped fine, equal part celery chopped fine, one teaspoon vinegar, and pepper and salt to taste. When ready to serve, mix with one very small cup of stiff mayon- naise. Have your bread well buttered, put in a leaf of lettuce and spread with mixture. This portion makes thirty-six sand- wiches. Elizabeth Kerckhoff. WALNUT SANDWICH. Shell half a pound of English walnuts. Put the kernels into a pint of boiling water; boil for a minute; drain, and cover with stock; add a bay leaf, a few celery tops and a slice of onion. Cook gently for twenty minutes, drain and skim; chop fine, add half a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne or paprika. Spread between thin slices of buttered bread. These are very nice served with lobster a la Newberg. WALNUT SANDWICH. Put nuts through a meat grinder, or chop them very fine; mix with salad dressing sufficient to make a paste. Spread on buttered bread. Peanuts may be used in the same way. Mrs. George Sinsabaugh.CHAPTER XXIII. INVALID COOKERY. ARROWROOT JELLY. One cup boiling- water, two heaping teaspoonfuls arrowroot, two teaspoonfuls white sugar, three tablespoonfuls blackberry cordial. Excellent for children with bowel trouble. Mrs. J. F. Conroy. APPLE WATER. One apple, one tablespoon sugar, one cup boiling water, one strip lemon peel. Wipe a large, sour apple and cut it with- out paring, into thin slices. Put them into a bowl with the lemon peel and boiling water; cover it, and let it stand till cold. Add the sugar, and when dissolved strain it. RHUBARB WATER. One small stalk rhubarb, one cup boiling water, one strip lemon peel, one tablespoon sugar. Wipe the rhubarb, cut into pieces an inch long. Add lemon peel and foiling water. Let it stand till cold. Add sugar, and when dissolved strain it. BEEF EXTRACT. Soak finely-chopped lean beef in an equal weight of cold water for an hour, then gradually raise to a boiling point Simmer‘for fifteen minutes and strain. QUICK BEEF TEA. Take a round steak (always the best piece of meat for in- valids), cut into pieces the size of your hand. Have ready a cup in hot water. P>roil your steak quickly on both sides, turning quickly to retain the juice; broiling only enough to start the juice. Squeeze with a lemon squeezer the juice into the hot cup; add a little salt, and carry to the invalid with the cup still in hot water, to prevent coagulation. Mrs. J. F. Conroy.INVALID COOKERY. 239 BARLEY BROTH. Wash well a cup of pearl barley; pour over it a quart of water and let boil until the barley is quite soft. Strain off the water, salt and give to the patient several times a day. Carrie T. Waddilovb. BARLEY WATER. A teacup of pearl barley to two quarts water; boil in a double porcelain boiler two and a half hours; add one cup table raisins an hour before you remove from stove. It will look milky and thick. Squeeze the juice of three lemons in a pitcher, sweeten and salt to taste; strain the hot barley wa- ter over the lemon ; pick out the raisins to add with the liquor. Throw barley away. Very acceptable to a fever patient. Mrs. Mossin. CURRANT ICE WATER. Press the juice from ripe currants, strain, add a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. The sugar may be dissolved either by stirring it in the juice in a saucepan over the fire, or putting it in bottles, setting them over the fire in a sauce- pan of cold water, allowing them to become gradually heated to a boiling point. When cold they should be taken out, corked, sealed, and put in a cool, dry place. Mix with ice water or Shasta water for a beverage. The juice of other acid fruits may be preserved in the same manner. FLOUR GRUEL. Put one pint milk on fire in double boiler. Mix one gill of cold water with one tablespoon flour, and add to the boil- ing milk. Cook twenty minutes, season with scant half tea- spoon salt; strain and serve hot. If this is desired more nu- tritious, add half cup raisins, and a grating of nutmeg if pa- tient desires. Mrs. Mossin. OATMEAL GEflJEL. • Sprinkle one generous tablespoon of oatmeal with one quart boiling water; set where it will simmer two hours. Add salt, scant half teaspoon. Strain as hot as may be best for pa- tient. Fill a delicate cup half full of gruel; add half or quar- ter cup cream or milk. Mrs. Mossjn.240 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. KOUMISS (SOMETIMES CALLED MILK BEER.) Into one quart of new milk put one gill of fresh buttermilk and three or four lumps of white sugar. Mix well and see that the sugar dissolves. Put in warm place to stand ten hours, when it will be thick. Pour from one vessel to another until it becomes smooth and uniform in consistency. Bottle and keep in warm place twenty-four hours; it may take thirty- six in winter. The bottles must be tightly corked and the corks tied down. Shake well five minutes before opening. It makes a very agreeable drink, which is especially recommended for persons who do not assimilate their food, and for young children may be drunk as freely as milk. Instead of butter- milk, some use a teaspoonful of yeast. It is the standard bev- erage of the Tartars, who almost live upon it in summer, and is also used largely by the Russians. The richer your milk, which should be unskimmed, the better will be your koumiss. MILK PORRIDGE. Two dozen raisins quartered, two cups milk, one tablespoon flour, one saltspoon salt. Boil the raisins in a little water twenty minutes. Let the water boil away, and add the milk. When boiling, add the flour rubbed to a thin paste with a lit- tle cold milk. Boil eight or ten minutes. Season with salt, and strain before serving. MULLED BUTTERMILK. One quart buttermilk, one scant, rounded tablespoon flour. Put the buttermilk in a bowl; place in a saucepan of cold wa- ter and put over the fire; stir slowly all the time. Mix the flour smooth with a little buttermilk or water; when the but- termilk is a little more than lukewarm, stir in the thickening. Now stir thoroughly, watching closely, and when it looks as if full of fine grains as it runs from the spoon, remove from the fire, take out of the hot water and keep stirring for five or ten minutes. In order to make this successfully, the but- termilk must be fresh, and procured where churning is done frequently, so that it shall be good and sweet. Mrs. W. F. Marshall.INVALID COOKERY. 241 WINE WHEY. Three tablespoons milk; when boiling, add one tablespoon port wine. Strain and sweeten to taste for invalids. EGGS FOR INVALIDS. One of the most delicate ways in which to prepare an egg for an invalid is to beat the yolk and white separately until extremely light. Add a pinch of salt, pour into a china cup, which set in a saucepan of hot water, stirring constantly till scalded, but not cooked. When this is done slowly, the egg just thickens slightly, but puffs up until the cup is almost filled with the creamy custard. Set in the oven a moment and serve at once. Topeka Journal. OYSTER ROAST. Heat half pint oysters in their own liquor to boiling point, add one generous tablespoon butter, enough salt and pepper to season. Pour the oysters and liquor over a slice of hot toast. Serve at once. UNLEAVENED BREAD. Take graham, rye or oatmeal, add a very little salt, and water enough to make a batter as for griddle cakes; beat and work it, the more the better; have your oven hissing hot; make a thin loaf about a quarter of an inch thick.CHAPTER XXIV. MENUS. BREAKFAST. Fruit. Cracked Wheat, with Cream. Broiled Lamb Chops. Baked Potatos. Rolls. Orange Marmalade. Coffee. breakfast. Oven-broiled Quails. Raised Waffles; Grape Jelly. Buttered Toast. Bread-crumb Griddles. Fruit. BREAKFAST. July— Grapefruit. Wheaten Grits; Cream. Fried Calves’ Brains, Cream Sauce. Coffee Cake. Buttered Toast. Coffee. Henrietta J. Wigmore. BREAKFAST. Fruit. Malt Breakfast Food, with Cream. Omelette with Kidney. Lamb Cutlets, Broiled. Country Sausages. Potatos, Maitre d’Hotel. Coffee. Mrs. M J. Connell.MENUS. 243 THANKSGIVING BREAKFAST (New England) Chicken Pie. Baked Potatos. Baked Sweet Apples. Coffee. SOUTHERN BREAKFAST. Fruit. Oatmeal in Molds, and Whipped Cream. Broiled Chicken. Corn Meal Muffins. Potato Puff. Coffee. Chocolate. Waffles and Maple Syrup. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. SPRING LUNCHEON. Grapefruit. Stuffed Olives. Salted Almonds. .Iced Bouillon. Soft-shelled Crabs. Sherry. Timbales of Sweet-breads, with Peas. Asparagus, Sauce Hollandaise. Squab on Toast; Hominy Croquettes. Tomatos, filled with chopped Cucumber and Mayonnaise. Cheese Biscuit. Strawberry Mousse. Petits Fours. Creme de Menthe. Coffee. Miss M. n. Ryan. AN EASTER LUNCHEON. Grapefruit. Served in nest of orange leaves and blossoms. Bouillon. With Poached Egg in each cup. Deviled Crab. Iced Cucumbers. Chicken Timbales. Peas and Beaten Biscuits. Frozen Eggnog. Broiled Squab. Creamed Potato. Asparagus. Ice Cream, individual egg-shaped molds, served in spun sugar nests. Coffee. C 1 erne de Menthe. MRS- 0 w. Childs.244 landmarks club cook book. OCTOBER LUNCHEON. Grapefruit. Bouillon, with Whipped Cream. Salted Almonds. Olives. Celery. Broiled Lake Trout, Marble Potatos. Cucumber Salad, French Dressing. Small Tenderloins, Bernaise Sauce; Sweet Peas. Fruit Salad. Teal Ducks, Currant Jelly. Asparagus, Mayonnaise. Ice Cream in Meringues. Fruits. Coffee. Mrs. A. Haas. OCTOBER LUNCHEON. A round table, a cut-glass bowl of American Beauty roses for the center, with a perfect rose with foliage laid on the cloth occasionally. Half a small cantaloupe. Bouillon in cups. Crabs a la Diable, served either in clam shells or porcelain shells. With these serve California olives and a brownbread and butter sandwich. Broiled chicken with mushrooms; spiced peaches; browned sweet potatos; stuffed peppers;—stuffed with green corn. A celery salad. Individual strawberry and vanilla ices in the form of roses; sunshine cake. Fruits—oranges, grapes, black cornichon, flaming tokay and muscatel. A cup of chocolate with a cream puff. Mrs. i. n. van nuys. MIDWINTER LUNCHEON IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA. California Oyster Cocktails. Sauterne. Creme a la Reine. Crab a la Francaise. Pickles. Mushrooms on Toast, Brown Butter Sauce. Fried1 Chicken. New Potatos. Olives. Grapefruit Punch. Broiled Teal Duck. Green Peas. Celery. Chestnut Salad. Pimiento Sandwiches. Fried Bananas, Sauce au Rhum. Biscuit Glace. White Cake. Candies. • Black Coffee. Mrs. George J. Denis.MENUS. 245 A SIMPLE SEASIDE LUNCHEON. Razor Clam Cocktails. Bouillon, with Croutons. Lobster Farci; Sliced Cucumbers. Chicken and Mushroom Patties; Green Peas. Crab Salad, with Mayonnaise in tomato cups. Water Biscuit. Salted Almonds. Pineapple Tapioca; Whipped Cream. Coffee. Cake. mary h. hunt. LUNCHEON. Chicken Broth in Cups. Eggs, Columbus Style. Sweet-bread, Villeroy Sauce. Green Peas, Buttered. Broiled Quails. Lettuce Salad. Parfait with Chocolate. Macaroons flavored with Lemon. Small cup of Coffee. Mrs. m j. conneli. LUNCHEON. Fruit Relish. (Bananas, pineapple, oranges, sliced very thin, covered with sugar and sherry; served very cold). Clear Broth; Salted Crackers. Deviled Fish ; slices of Bread and Butter; Olives. Creamed Sweet-bread Patties. French Chops; Potato Croquettes; French Peas; Hot Biscuits; Jelly and Pickles. Artichokes (served hot in a napkin) ; Mayonnaise. Dressing; Cheese Wafers. Ice Cream, served with Strawberries. Cake. Candy. Coffee. Cheese. Crackers. Creme de Menthe. Mrs. John Hubert Norton. LUNCHEON. Crab Soup. Fried Chicken. Baked Potatos. Green Peas. Lettuce Salad, Tomato Jelly; Mayonnaise Dressing. Peach Cream. Coffee. LUNCHEON MENU (FOREIGN). Shirred Eggs. Risotto. Cold Meats. Salad. Fruit. Cheese. Dr. W. Jarvis Barlow.landmarks club cook book. LUNCHEON MENU (FOREIGN). Hors d’Oeuvres. Spaghetti a l’ltalienne. Mutton Cutlets; Saute Potatos. Fruit and Cheese. Dr. W. Jarvis Barlow. DINNER. Potage. Terrapin Soup, a la Reine. Poisson. Boiled Salmon, Anchovy Sauce. Cucumbers. Potato Hollandaise. Relev es. Filets de Boeuf, aux Champignons. Entree. Chicken Croquettes; Green Peas. Celery. Asparagus. Game. Wild Duck, Currant Jelly. Dessert. Charlotte. Russe. Rum Jelly. Chocolate eclairs. Coffee. Mrs. J. G. Chandler DINNER. Consomme Imperial. Oysters on Half Shell. Terrapin a la Maryland. Sauterne. Chicken vol an vent, au Royal. Fillet of Beef. Potato Balls. Fresh Mushrooms on Toasc. Champagne. Ginger Sorbet. Canvas-i'ack Duck. Marie Antoinette Salad. Individual Tees. Cake. Coffee. Liqueur. Pecans. Iiors d’Oeuvres. Salted Almonds. Pecans. Olives. Pickles. Mrs. O. W. Childs.MENUS. 247 DINNER. Blue Points on Half Shell. Soup. Chicken Gumbo, a la Creole. Fish. Broiled Smelts, Tartar Sauce. Entree. Chicken Croquettes. Stuffed Olives. Creamed Sweet-breads; Green Peas. Sorbet. Pineapple Ice. Roast. Turkey, stuffed with Oysters; Cranberry Sauce. Boiled Onions, family style; Fried Sweet Potatos. Game. Birds, or Roast Duck. Lettuce Salad. Cheese Balls. Dessert. Nesselrode Pudding. Coffee. Mrs- Frederick C. Howes. DINNER. Consomme Duchesse. Creme of Celery. Fillet of Sole, in cases. Cucumber Salad with Cream Dressing. Supreme of Chicken, Toulouse style. Saddle of Lamb, Roasted. Potatos Waldorf. Stuffed Green Peppers. American Sherbet. Roasted Partridge. Chiffonade Salad. Mousse of Chestnuts. Cream Puffs. Coffee. Mrs. M. J. Connell. DINNER FOR EIGHT PEOPLE. Mushroom Soup. Boiled Salmon, with Stuffed Cucumbers. Saddle of Mutton. Peppers a la Mexicaine. Green Corn Custard. Currant Jelly. Stuffed Olives. Lettuce Salad with Tomato Jellv. Burnt Almond Charlotte. Cheese Danieto. Black Coffee. Mrs. Hdoh Vail.248 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. SOUTHERN DINNER. Mint Julep. Soup (Brown) ; Bread. Scalloped Oysters; Rolls. Chicken Croquettes; Peas. Beef a la Mode; Vegetables. Sweet-bread Salad. Ice Cream. Pound Cake. Marble Cake. Coffee. Pickles. Olives. Candy. Wines. Sherry with Soup. Sautcrne with Fish. Champagne with Dinner. Brandy with Coffee. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. SOUTHERN CHRISTMAS DINNER. Clear Soup. Fried Oysters. Crackers. Smothered Quail. Roast Turkey. Roast Pig. Potatos. Cranberries. Corn Pudding. Chicken Salad. Plum Pudding. Coffee. Brandy. Celery. Pickles. Olives. Candy. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. SOUTHERN SUPPER. Fried Chicken. Corn Meal Balls. Corn Pudding. Stuffed Flam. Scalloped Eggs. Potato Salad. Preserved Peaches. Brandied Cherries. Peach Ice Cream. Fruit Cake. Beaten Biscuit. Sally Lunn. Coffee. Chocolate. Mrs. Jerry' Conroy.CHAPTER XXV. MISCELLANEOUS. CAMPHOR ICE. One-half ounce gum camphor with alcohol enough to dis- solve it, one-half ounce white wax, one-half ounce vaseline jelly. Put all together in a tin cup; heat enough to melt thoroughly. SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM IN COFFEE. Beat the white of an egg, put to it a small lump of butter and pour the coffee into it gradually, stirring it so that it will not curdle. It is difficult to distinguish this from fresh cream. Many drop a tiny piece of sweet butter into their cup of hot coffee as a substitute for cream. COLD CREAM. Oil sweet almonds, seven ounces, French rose water four ounces, spermaceti two ounces, white wax 240 grains. Melt the wax and spermaceti, both shaved fine, with the oil. When nearly cold, beat in the rose water with a Doan egg beater, being careful not to let it separate. Benzoin or attar of rose may be added. J. F. W., Santa Barbara. SILVER POLISH. Alcohol six ounces, aqua ammonia half ounce, soft water three ounces; electro silicon to make it the consistency of cream. Keep the bottle tightly corked. Apply with a soft cloth and rub off when dry. J. F. W., Santa Barbara. JAVA WATER. One pound chloride lime, two pounds sal soda, fourteen quarts boiling water. Strain and bottle for use. This will remove fruit and wine stains. Dip in the water a few mo- ments until the stain disappears. It must be well rinsed in cold water before putting into hot. Mrs. J. G Mossin.250 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK FURNITURE POLISH. Dissolve four ounces shellac in one quart ninety-five per cent alcohol; to this add one quart linseed oil and one pint of turpentine. When mixed, add four ounces sulphuric ether and four ounces aqua ammonia. Mix thoroughly before using. Apply with a sponge and rub until the polish appears. H. C. W. CLEANING SOLUTION. One gallon deodorized benzine, half ounce each of ether and chloroform, one ounce alcohol. Can be used for cleaning gloves, lace or silk goods. Will not leave a ring. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. SOAP BARK FOR CLEANSING. Steep ten cents’ worth (two ounces) of soap bark in a gallon of water. Strain and wash the goods in the usual way. Steep the same bark a second time for a rinsing water. All grease will be removed. Dampen and press. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. TO CLEAN BRASSYVARE. Ten cents’ worth of oxalic acid dissolved in a pint of hot water. Bottle, label and keep out of the reach of children, as it is a deadly poison. Pour a little in a cup and apply with a swab. Be sure not to allow the acid to touch the hands. Mrs. E. B. Millar. TO TAKE PAINT OUT OF WASH CLOTHING. Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will take paint out of clothing, no matter how dry or hard it may be. Saturate the spot two or three times, then wash out in soap suds. Mrs. E. B. MillaR- TO REMOVE FRUIT AND OTHER STAINS FROM THE HANDS. Use half a lemon; rub the spots thoroughly, then wash in soap and water. Mrs E. B. Millar. TO REMOVE INK STAINS FROM FINGERS. Take a common sulphur match, wet it and rub over the ink spots; then wash the hands in soap and water. The spots will all disappear. Mrs. E. B. Millar.251 MISCELLANEOUS. TO REMOVE INK STAINS FROM CLOTHING. Dip the spots in pure melted tallow. Wash out the tallow, and the ink will come out. Mrs. Koepfli. TO SET COLORS IN FABRICS. Calicoes and cbambreys will not fade if before the first washing they are soaked in a bucket of cold water contain- ing one tablespoonful of sugar of lead. PROPORTIONS. Five to eight eggs to one quart of milk for custards. Three to four eggs to one pint of milk. One saltspoonful of salt to one quart of milk for cus- tards. One teaspoonful or less of vanilla to one quart of milk for custards. Two ounces gelatine to t$4 quarts of liquid. Three heaping teaspoon fills baking powder to one quart of flour. One even teaspoon ful baking powder to one cupful of flour One teaspoonful soda to one pint sour milk. One teaspoonful soda to half pint molasses. WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Four gills—one pint. Two pints—one quart. Four quarts—one gallon. Sixteen ounces—one pound. Half kitchen cupful—one gill. One kitchen cupful—half pint, or two gills. Four kitchen cupfuls—one quart. Two cupfuls granulated sugar, 2 >4 cupfuls powdered sugar —one pound. One heaping tablespoon ful sugar—i ounce. One heaping tablespoonful butter, butter size of an egg- two ounces, or quarter cupful. One cupful butter—half pound. I oui cupfuls flour, one heaping quart—one pound. Eight round tablespoonfuls of dry material—one cupful. Sixteen tablespoonfuls of liquid—one cupful.INDEX PAGE Abalone Fritters Ajiaco Albondigas, Peruvian Almond Charlotte Cream Cake Paste Pudding Spatello Almonds, Salted Anchovy Butter Catsup Eggs Angel Pudding 1 Angels on Horseback Apple Jelly in Jelly Pudding Water Apricot Jam Marmalade Sweet Pickle Arrowroot Jelly Ato'e de Pina Bachelor’s Buttons Banana Cream Float Layer Cake Bananas, Baked Banbury Cakes Tarts Barley Broth Water Beans Beef Extract Tea Beverages Bifstek a la Chorillana— Bird’s Nest Pudding Biscuit Blackberry Cordial Boston Brown Bread Bouillon Brazil Nuts, Salted BREAD, ROLLS, etc Bread Brown Corn Cream Egg Graham Rye Spider Sticks Unleavened Whole Wheat Rolls, Biscuit, etc. Biscuit. Baking Powder Beaten Graham Buns Corn Floppers Crackers, Graham Fritters Gems Griddle Cakes Johnny Cakes 30 1 3 154 177 13 126 183 233 234 200 115 126 74 193 154 .126, 134 238 194 194 200 238 12 183 154 154 177 94 183 146 2?9 ;;;;;;239 ...95. 96 ....49-53 238 238 ..221-227 3 127 217 227 215 20 233 .211-220 211 215 .215, 216 213 216 216 212 216 212 241 213 217 217 218 213 220 ,220 218 220 .218 Bread, Rolls, etc., cont’d. Muffins, Cornmeal Cracked Wheat Mush 'Squash Pop-Overs Puffs, Breakfast German Rolls Parker House Potato Rusks Sally Lunn Short Cake, Scotch Spat-outs, Rhode Island Waffles Broth. Chicken Clam Scotch White Brown Bread Brussels Sprouts Buns Bunuelo® Burnt Almond Charlotte.. Buttermilk, Mulled Cabbage Cajeta de Camote y Pina de Leche de Celaya CAKE General Directions T^oaves: Celia Thaxter Chocolate Chocolate Nut Cocoanut Coffee Kuchen Dough Eggless White English Walnut Excellent Federal Fruit, English Black Hazelnut Kentucky Silver Kittle’s Leb Kuchen Marble Nut Orange Pound Premium Queen’s Raised Raisin Salem Election Sand Schwartz Brod Snow 'Snowball Soft Gingerbread Spice Sponge Sultana Sunshine PAGE 218 216 21S 219 218 217 218 213 214 214 217 214 219 220 219, 220 22 22 27 29 215 97 213 10 154 240 97 12 12 13 . .164-192 164 165 165 166 166 166 166 167 167 167 167 167 168 168 168 168 169 169 169 169 170 170 170 171 171 171 172 172 173 173 172 173 174 175 175254 INDEX. PAGE CAKE—Loaves, cont’d. Velvet 176 Walnut 176 Wedding- 176 White Perfection 176 Layer Cakes 177-181 Almond Cream 177 Banana 177 Chocolate 177 Cocoanut 177 Coffee 178 Cream 178 Fig 178 French Cream 179 Maple Sugar 179 Marshmallow 179 Nut 180 Orange 180 Pineapple 180 Ribbon 180 Spice 181 White Mountain 181 Icings Boiled 182 Caramel 182 Gelatine 182 Chocolate 182 Marshmallow 183 Small Cakes, Cookies, etc. Almond Spatello 183 Bachelor’s Buttons 183 Banbury Cakes 183 Chocolate Balls 184 Cookies Aunt Louise’s 183 Molasses 184 Oatmeal 184 Peanut 185 Cream Cakes 185 Cream Puffs 185 Hermits 186 Jumbles 187 Fruit 186 Macaroons 187 Maids of Honor 187 Nut Patties 188 Queen Cakes 188 Rocks 188 Rock Cakes 188 Shrewsbury Cakes 189 Victoria Cakes 189 Walnut Wafers 189 Calabacitos con Chile Verde 14 Calabacitos con Queso 14 Calf’s Head 54, 56 Camotes con Dulce 11 Camphor Ice 249 Canape, Sardine 79 Candied Peaches 11 Rose Leaves 232 Violets 232 CANDY Chocolate Caramels 229 Creams 228 Macaroons 230 Cream Walnuts 229 Fudge 230 Kisses . 230 Molasses .' 231 Peanut Brittle 231 Peppermints 232 Pinoche 231 Pop Corn Balls 232 Canning Fruit 193 PAGE Capirotada 15 Caramel Ice Cream 150 Cake Filling 182 Carne con Chile 14 Carne en Adobo 5 Carrot Fritters 74 Carrots 98 Catsup, Anchovy 200 Cauliflower 98 Champagne Cup 224 Punch 224 Cheese 122-125 Balls 122 Biscuits 122 Croquettes 123 Danietto 123 English Monkey i25 Fingers 123 Fondue 123 Patties 124 Ramekins 124 Sandwich 235 Souffle 124 Straws 125 Wafers 124 Cherries, Brandied 194 Cherry Pudding 127 Chestnut Mousse 151 Pudding 128 Chestnuts, Boiled 98 Chicken, Broiled 38 en Fricassee 38 Fried 38 a la Marengo 39 a la Pacheco 39 Pie 39 Roast 40 Sandwich 235 Souffle 40 Supreme of 40 Toulouse Style 40 a la. Terrapin 41 Chiffonade 65 Chile con Carne 8 con Huevos 15 Sauce ...200 BernalillOi 17 Mexican for Tortas ... Chiles Rellenos . con Carne con Queso Chocolate Balls Cake Caramels Icing Macaroni Macaroons Parfait Potatos Pudding Chonzo Chow-Chow Chupe Chutney Citron Preserve . Claret Cup Cocada Cocoanut Cake .. Pie Codfish in Cream Coff.ee Cream ....7, 8 125 9 15 15 222 184 165, 177 229 182 160 230 152 160 128 16 201 1 202 194 223 11 .166, 177 140 30 221 155INDEX. 255 Coffee, cont’d. Cake Kuchen Vienna Colache Cold Cream Cookies Corn Bread Green Omelet Scalloped Crab Cakes Creole Soup Crabs. Deviled Cranberries Cream Cakes Layer Cake Pie Puffs a la Reine Croquettes Chicken Fish Lobster Macaroni Crullers Cucumber Pickles Salad Sandwich Sauce for Meat Cucumbers, Baked Currant Ice Water Pie Curried Egg's Curry Custard Pie Danietto Cheese Date Pudding Delicate Pudding DESSERTS Apple in Jelly Banana Cream Banana Float Burnt Almond Charlotte Chocolate Macaroni Chocolate Potatos Coffee Cream Duchess Cream Gotter Speisa Hamburg Sponge Ice Creams Lemon Cream Sponge... Lemon Jelly Marshmallow Mint Jelly Orange Cream Float Oranges with Jelly Peach Cream Prune Charlotte Prune Whip Raspberry Sponge Rose Custard Russian Cream Sherbets Spanish Cream Strawberry Cream Swiss Cream Tapioca Custard Trifle Velvet Cream Doughnuts Drawn Butter PAGE 178 166 221 16 249 .184, 185 215 99 99 99 30 30 23 ..77 195 .185 .178 .140 .185 ..23 ..74 ..75 ..75 ..76 ..76 .190 .203 ..66 .236 . ,S6 .100 .239 .76, 141 116 100 141 123 ....128 ....129 148-160 ....154 ....154 ....154 ....154 ....160 ....160 ....155 ....155 ....155 ....155 148-152 ....156 ....156 ....156 ....156 ....157 ....157 ....157 ....157 ....158 158 ....158 158 ....158 ....153 159 159 159 159 160 .160 191 ..86 190, PAGE Duchess Cream 155 Ducks, Wild 41 Fried Teal 42 Egg Nog 226 Plant 100 Sandwich 236 EGGS 114-121 Anchovy 115 with poached 115 Baked 115, 116 Boiled 114 and Cream 117 Columbus 116 Curried 116 French 117 Fried 118 a la Gitana 118 for invalids 241 Omelet 115 Cheese 120 with Kidney 120 Rum 120 in Peppers .-. 119 Poached 114 in Chile 119 al Pomadoro 119 Scalloped 120 Scrambled 120 Stuffed 234 with Tomatos 119 Tortas de Huevos 121 Election Cake 171 Enchiladas 8, 16 English Fruit Cake 167 Monkey ] 25 Walnut Cake 167 ENTREES 74-84 Angels on Horseback 74 Carrot Fritters 74 Chicken Patties 74 Chicken a la Terrapin 74 Croquettes 74 Chicken 75 Fish 75 Lobster 76 Macaroni 76 Curry of Dressed Meat 76 Deviled Crab 77 Ham Patties 77 and Potato Pudding 78 and Rice 78 Hungarian Dish 78 Kidneys, Stewed 78 Pigs in Blankets 79 Potato Patties 79 Sardine Canape 79 Shrimps, Deviled 79 Woodcock, Scotch 80 Sweet-breads, Creamed 80 Lambs’ 81 Patties 80 a la Roumage 80 Tamales, Mock 81 Terrapin, Imitation 81 Timbale, Fish 82 Halibut 82 of Hare 83 of Salmon 83 Tripe with Onion Sauce 83 Venison Soy 84 Escabechl 56 Farina Pudding 129 Federal Cake 167256 INDEX. Fig Cake Jam Marmalade " ' ”, Preserve Pudding Sandwich FTSH Abalone Fritters Codfish in Cream Crab Cakes Creole a la Francaise Creamed Herring, Marinade Lobster Chops Creamed with Curry Cutlets Newberg Ramekins Oysters, Delmonico ... Fricasseed Fried a la Poulette Rarebit Scalloped Roe Salmon. Baked Boiled Loaf a. la Mold Scalloped Shrimps. Fricassee of. Sole, Fillet of Floppers, Corn Fondue, Cheese Forcemeat for Chicken. Francetelli’s Seasoning Friioles Fritters Frogs’ Legs Frosting Frozen Pudding Fruit Cake Mousse Salad Galloria Game Gato de Liebre Gelatine Frosting Gems Gingerbread •Ginger Cakes Crisps Sherbet Snaps Glue Wine Golden Pie Goose, Roast Gotter Speisa Graham Bread Crackers \. . Grapes, Pickled Greengage Jam Griddle Cakes Gruel, Flour Oatmeal Guava Paste Guaxolote en Mole Verde Guiso -Gumbo, Chicken File PAGE 178 195 196 195 129 236 ....30-37 30 30 30 30 30 31 31 32 ...32. 33 32 33 33 34 34 34 34 35 35 35 35 36 36 36 36 31 37 37 220 123 40 S7 9 .190, 220 37 181 150 168 168 ..66, 67 6 ...41-46 5 182 218 172, 192 j 192 191 153 191 226 141 42 155 216 220 205 196 220 239 239 196 7 4 22 23 Ham Patties ’’'' and Rice Hare, Fillets of Forcemeat for Jugged ' Roast Belgian Hazelnut Cake Hermit Cakes Hoe Cake j Hop Yeast Huatia Hungarian Dish ” " Ice Cream Caramel Chocolate Parfait Frozen Pudding Lemon Frappe Maple Parfait Mousse, Cafe of Chestnut Fruit Strawberry Peach Prune Tapioca Vanilla Iced Tea Icings Indian Pudding Ink Stains Invalid Cookery Jam, Apricot Fig Greengage Loquat Nectarine Pineapple and Apricot Rhubarb and Orange.. Java Water Jelly, Making Apple Rhubarb Johnny Cake Julep, Mint Jumbles Kentucky Silver Cake... Kidneys, Stewed King of Puddings Kittae’s Cake 1 Koumiss Lamb Cutlets Saddle of Leb Kuchen Leche de Pina Lemonade Lemon Cream Sponge Frappe Jelly Marmalade Pickle Pie Pudding Sherbet Lettuce Salad Sandwich Lobsters Lomito Loquat Jam Macaroni Macaroons Macaroon Tarts Maids of Honor Maple Parfait page 57 77 78 43 44 43 ..43 168 186 217 212 3 78 148 150 152 150 150 152 151 151 152 152 150 150 151 ......151 222 .181, 182 .126, 130 .250, 251 238 194 195 196 197 197 198 198 249 193 ......193 198 218 223 186, 187 168 78 130 168 240 58 58 169 14 222 156 150 156 196 205 142 130 153 ..67, 68 236 ...32-34 2 197 101 187 146 1S7 152257 INDEX PAGE PAGE Maple Sugar Cake 179 Marble Cake 169 Marinade S9 Herring 31 Marmalade, Apricot 194 Fig 196 Lemon .... 196 Orange 197 Marshmallow Cake 179 Desserts 156 Icing 1S3 Mayonnaise Salad Dressing 73 Sauce for Meats 88 MEATS 48-62 General Directions 48 Beef a la Mode 50 Fillets of 51 Gateau of 52 Omelet Loaf .«..51 Pot Roast 53 Roast 19 Saute 52 Tagliarini 53 Tongue 53. 59 Beefsteak and Onions 52 Pie V..52 Calf’s Head Escabechi 56 Ham, Boiled 57 Sauces with 57 Stuffed 57 Lamb Cutlets 58 Saddle of 58 Mutton Cutlets 58 Pigs’ Feet 58 Stuffed 58 Sausages 59 Terrapin, Mock 59 Veal Birds 60 and Ham Pie 60 Olive Pie 61 Stewed 62 Menus -.224-248 Migas 5 Milk Porridge 240 Mince Pie 143, 144 Mint Jelly 156 Julep 223 Miscellaneous 249 Molasses Candy 231 Mousse 151, 152 Muffins 218 Mushrooms 102 Soup 25 Mustard Dressing 68 Mutton 58 Nasturtiums ..102 Sauce for Meats 89 Nectarine Jam 197 Nut Jumbles 187 Patties 188 Oatmeal Gruel 239 Okra 102 Gumbo 1..26 Olive Sandwich 236 Sauce • 89 Stuffed 210 Omelets 115, 120 Onions, Baked 103 Orangeade 223 Orange Cake 169, 180 Cordial 223 Cream 157 I Orange, cont’d. Float 157 with Jelly 157 Liqueur 223 Marmalade 197 Pudding 131 Wine 226 Ostras de la Buena Mujer 7 Oysters 34, 35 Oyster Cocktails 206 Plant 103 Puree 27 Roast 241 Soup 27 Oxtail Soup 27 Pan Relleno 16 Papas con Aji.. 5 Papas Rellenos 2 Parsnips 103 Pa'rtridges 44 PASTRY 138-147 General Directions 138 Pies Apple Custard 141 Berry 140 Cocoanut 140 Cream 140 Currant 141 Custard 141 Golden 141 Lemon 142 Mince 143, 144 Raisin 145 Rhubarb 145 Squash 145 Tutti Frutti 115 Tarts, Banbury 146 Cheese 146 Lemon 146 Macaroni '. 146 ‘Sand 147 Patitas con Mani 4 Patties Cheese 124 Chicken 74 Ham 77 Nut 188 Potato 79 Peaches, Brandied 197 Candied 11 Pickled 207 Peach Cream 157 Ice Cream 150 Preserve 197 Pudding 132 Peanut Brittle 231 Peanuts, Salted 233 Peas 103 Pears, Pickled 207 Pecans, Grilled 233 Peppers 104-106 Pepper Pudding 132 Peruvian Albondigas 3 Pichones Borrachos 6 PICKLES Apricots 200 Cucumber 203, 204 Fig 204, 205 French 204 Grape 205 Lemon 205 Mixed 206 Peaches 207 Pears 207258 INDEX. PAGE Pickles, cont’d. Pineapple Plum Bungo Salza Spiced Currants Pigs Peaches Plums Tomato Sweet Tomato Tomato Soy Walnuts Picnic Luncheons Pig, Stuffed Pigs’ Feet Pigeons Pineapple Cake Jam Pudding Sherbet Pinoche Piquant Sauce Plum Bungo Pudding Polish, Furniture Silver Polios de la Bella Mulata Pop-overs Porridge, Milk Potato Pudding Potatoes Pot Roast Potted Meats Poultry Pound Cake Premium Cake Preserve, Citron Fig Peach Quince Pressed Meat Prune Cream Charlotte Ice Cream Souffle Whip PUDDINGS Almond Angel Apple Apple, Scalloped Banana Bird’s Nest Black Bread Cherry Chestnut Chocolate Date Delicate Farina Fig Indian King of Lemon Lemon Tapioca Orange .. Peach Pepper Phelan Plum Pineapple Plum Potato 206 207 209 209 209 209 210 -.210 ...200, 210 207 2 OS 208 ....234-237 58 58 44, 45 180 198 132 154 231 90 207 ...133, 136 250 249 ......6 218 240 133 ...106, 108 53 234 38-41 170 170 194 195 197 198 234 157 158 151 ...133, 134 158 126 126 ...126, 134 134 127 127 127 127 127 128 128 128 129 129 129 ...126, 130 130 130 130 131 132 132 132 132 133 133 Puddings, cont’d. Prune Souffle , Rothe Groetse Snow Sour Cream Spanish Spiced Rice Sponge Sugar Flake Thanksgiving Plum Virginia Walnut Pudding Sauces Apricot Bischoff Cream Delicate Fruit Hard Lemon Molasses Pineapple Wine for Stewed Fruit . Puffs, Breakfast German Punch Champagne Empire Fruit Grape-Fruit Ohio White Quails Queen Cakes Queen’s Cake Quesadillas de Prisa . Quince Preserve Rabbit, Jugged Raised Cake Raisin Cake Raisin Pie Ramekins, Cheese .... Ranfanote Raspberry Shrub Sponge Vinegar Rhubarb Jam Jelly Pie Water Ribbon Cake Rice Rissotto a la Milanese Rock Cake Rocks Rolls Parker House Potato Rose Custard Leaves, Candied ... Rothe Groetse Rusks, Tea Russian Cream SALADS Apple and Celery .. Brussels Sprouts .. Cabbage Celery and Apple ... Celery Root Chestnut Chicken and. Cheese Chiffonade PAGE .133, 134 134 134 136 135 135 135 136 ........136 137 137 ..161-163 161 161 161 162 162 162 162 162 163 163 163 217 218 224 . ...224 225 225 ....225 225 225 45 188 170 7 198 45 171 .....171 145 124 11 227 158 227 198 198 145 238 180 108, 110 no 1S8 188 213 214 214 158 232 134 217 158 63-73 63 63 64 64 64 64 64 65 65259 INDBX. Salads, cont’d. Codfish and Potato Crab Cucumber Egg Fish Fruit French Fruit Grape-fruit and Nuts Lettuce with tomato Orange Potato Red Rose Scallop Shrimp Sweet-bread String Bean Tomato Salad Dressings: Chicken Cooked Cream French Mayonnaise Mustard Sally Lunn Salmon Salpicon Salza Sancochado Sand Cake Sand Tarts Sandwiches Cheese Chicken Cucumber Egg Fig Lettuce Nut and Cheese Olive Sardine Shrimp and Lobster Walnut Sardine Canape SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH Bechamel Bernese Bordeaux Brown Cold Meat Cold Sauce for Fish Currant Jelly Cucumber Drawn Butter Dutch Fish Francatelli’s French Game Green Herring Horseradish Lemon Madeira Marinade for Game Nasturtium Olive. Oyster for Poultry Piquant Port Wine PAGE 65 65 66 66 66 66 67 67 67 68 6S 6S 69 69 69 70 70 70 .70, 71 72 72 72 73 73 68 214 36 .....199 209 1 172 147 235-237 ....235 ....235 ....236 ....236 ....236 ....236 ....236 ....236 ....237 ....237 ....237 79 ..85-92 85 85 85 85 86 86 86 86 86 87 87 87 87 88 88 88 88 88 88 89 89 89 89 90 90 PAGE Sauces for Meat and Fish, cont’d. Sicilian 90 Spanish 91 Tartare ...91 Tomato 91, 92 Walnut 92 White 92 Sausages 59 Schwartz Brod 172 Sherbet, American 153 Ginger 153 Lemon 153 Pineapple 154 Short Cake, Scotch 219 Shrewsbury Cakes 189 Shrimp Salad 70 Shrimps, Deviled 79 Fricassee 37 Silver Polish 249 Snow Cake 173 Pudding 134 Snowball Cake 173 Soap Bark 250 Sole, Fillet of 37 SOUPS 18-29 Almond 18 Apricot 19 Asparagus 19 Beef Stock 20 Black Bean 20 Bouillon 20 Brown 20 Cherry 21 Cream of Celery 21 Cheese 21 Chestnut Puree 21 Chicken Broth 22 Gumbo 22 Clam Broth 22 Consomme Duchesse 22 Corn Chowder 23 Soup 23 Crab 23 Creme a la Reine 23 With Leberklosse 23 Lima Bean 24 French Tomato 24 Julienne 24 Gumbo file 25 Mock Bisque 25 Mushroom 25 Okra Gumbo 26 Onion 26 Oyster 27 Scotch Broth 27 Sweet Pea 26 Tomato 27 Turkey 28 Turtle Bean 28 White Broth 29 Wine 29 Sour Cream Pudding 136 Sour Krout HO SPANISH-AMERICAN DISHES.17 Ajiaco (Peru) 1 Almond Paste (Mexico) 13 Atole de Pina (Mexico) 12 Bernalillo Chile Sauce 17 Bifstek a la Chorrillana (Peru)..3 Bunuelos (Mexican Fritters) 10 Cajeta de Camote y Pina (Mex- ico) 12 Cajeta de Celaya (Mexico) 13INDEX. 260 PAGE Spanish-American Dishes, cont’d. Cajeta de Leche (Mexico) 12 Calabacitos con Chile Verde 14 Calabacitos con Queso 14 Camotes con Dulce (Peru) 11 Candied Peaches (Mexico) 11 Capirotada, a Spanish Pudding.15 Carne con Chile 14 Carne en Adobo (Peru) 5 Chile con Carne (Mexico) 8 Chile con Huevos 15 Chile 'Sauce 8 Chile Sauce (Mexico) 7 Chiles Rellenos con Carne 15 Chiles Rellenos con Queso 15 Chiles Rellenos con Queso (Mex- ico) 9 Chiles Rellenos de Picadillo (Mexico) 9 Chonzo 16 Chupe (Soup, Peru) 1 Enchiladas 8, 17 Frijoles (Mexico and Calif.) 9 Galloria 6 Gato de Liebre 5 Guaxolote en Mole Verde 7 Huatia (Peru) 3 Leche de Pina (Mexico) 14 Lomito (Peru) 2 Mexican Stuffing for Turkey—9 Mexican Tamales 3 Migas (Peru) 5 Ostras de la Bella Mulata 6 Ostras de la Buena Mujer 7 Pan Relleno 16 Papas con Aji (Peru) 5 Papas Rellenos (Peru) 2 Patitas con Mani (Peru) 4 Peruvian Albondigas 3 Pichones Borrachos 6 Polios de la Bella Mulata 6 Quesadilla de Prisa 7 PAGE Tagliarini 53 Tamales, Criollo 2 Mexican 3 Mock ,!..81 Serrano 5 Sweet 4 Tamarind Water 227 Tapioca Cream Custard 159 Ice Cream 154 Pudding 130 Tartare Sauce 91 Tarts 146, 147 Tea 221 Iced 222 Teal, Fried 42 Terrapin, Mock 59 Timbale 82, 83 Tomato Pickles, Green 207 Preserve 199 Salad 70, 71 Sauce 207 Soy 208 Tomatos 112 Tongue 53, 69 Torrejas de Pescado 2 Tortas de Huevos 121 Trifle 160 Tripe with Onion Sauce 83 Turkey, Roast 46 Dressing for 47 Turtle Bean Soup 28 Unleavened Bread 241 Vanilla Ice Cream 151 Veal 60-62 VEGETABLE'S 93, 113 Directions for Cooking 93 Artichokes 94 Bananas, Baked 94 Fried 95 Beans, Baked with Tomato 95 Curried with Tomato i...95 Ranfanote (Peru) 11 Sancochado (Peru) 1 Spanish Cream 159 Pudding 135 Spat-outs, Rhode Island 220 Spice Cake 173, 181 Spiced Currants 209 Figs 209 Peaches 209 Plums 210 Rice Pudding ; 135 Tomatos 210 Spanish 96 String —96, 97 Brussels Sprouts 97 Cabbage in Cream 97 Stewed 97 Carrots with Eggs 98 French 98 Poulette Style 98 Cauliflower 98 Chestnuts 98 Chestnuts, Boiled 98 Spider Bread 216 Spinach Ill Sponge Cake 174 Pudding 135 Squabs 46 Squash Pie 145 Cucumbers, Baked 10 Stuffed 10 Curry, Vegetable 100 Egg Plant 100, 101 Green Corn Custard 99 Strawberry Cream 159 Strawberries a la Romana 199 String Bean Salad 70 Stuffing for Game 47 for Turkey 47 Oysters 99 Scalloned 99 Macaroni 101 Mushrooms 101, 102 Nasturtiums 102 Sultana Cake 175 Sunshine Cake 175 Sweet-bread, Creamed 80 Onions, Baked 193 Oyster Plant 103 Parsnips —103 Peas. French 103 Green 103 a la Roumage 80 Salad . 70 Swiss Cream 159 Peppers, Bell, Stuffed 104, 105 Chile, Stuffed 104 Green, Stuffed 104261 INDEX. PAGE Vegetables—Peppers, cont’d. a la Mexicane 10(1 with Rice and Tomatos 10(1 Potato Puff 107 Potatos, Candied, Sweet 108 Scalloped 108 Stuffed 107 Waldorf 108 Rice 10S Savory 109 Southern^ 109 Spanish 110 with Tomatos 109 Rissotto a la Milanese 110 Sour Krout 110 Spinach Ill Creamed Ill Spanish Souffle Ill Succotash 112 Tomato Souffle 113 Tomatos, Baked 112 Green 112 with Macaroni 112 Stuffed 113 Velvet Cake 176 Cream 160 PAGE Venison Soy 84 Victoria Cakes 189 Vienna Coffee 221 Violets, Candied 232 Virginia Pudding 136 Waffles 219, 220 Walnut Cake 167, 176 Paste 13 Pudding 137 Sauce for Meats 92 Sandwich 237 Wafers 189 Walnuts, Pickled 208 Wedding Cake 176 White Mountain Cake 181 White Perfection Cake 176 White. Sauce 92 Wine, Glue 226 Orange 226 Soup 29 Whey 241 Woodcock, Scotch 80 Veast. Hop 212 Potato 212 LIBRARYBLANKS FOR YOUR PET RECIPES■r-;- :■ ■ Hi : ■flMMtettiarti liispiiiiiii: Illiiili Hfl liisi HUfe ■■ ill SOT . • - : ' •• "is::: ; ■ S-“3"S!r.:*E mufm li L'£ IgHmgffi :S§IS HI V 3&i3! UtCi: grgi ,'i'v :..■ ■ w ■• . • 'l'-.-. •' ... •■. •rl-'.tr- S3!? tew^|sapiBal!^ . v V 1 5l5SliSsB I:?: . - >1 ; SP2 . .:,u ” »g|B||ia ISiPl m uaiE-'w SiS^PSj^miiS 1 ilifiBll :'t : ■ ■ -■ — • EiraSaSSl : ■ : ■ , ■§ ^ ittE5*-*Rrri? Sif :. M ■ Non swsst:::3rs3a 'P k ^gapstea l?S|teifc ;v; 1;- ^S3&mK^g^tlS m. -- m m sis . . . : .:. , . . : . . . - ?":v nSfii Vds-ii - ■•! :!!i!i '-1 Mis Sifc : ; ' W-vJ llwiM M \%m rap?! ■Si ■ : aSfe !: ■ . 'i.iy-v:-