A SYLLABUS OF A COURSE OF LECTURES ON ^tnatomg anti Pbgsiologg, DELIVERED ANNUALLY IN THE LENT TERM. By JOHN HAVILAND, M D. PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY, AND FELLOW OF ST. JOHN’S COLLEGE. CAMBRIDGE: Printed by j. Smith, Printer to the University; AND SOLD BY J. DEIGHTON AND SONS. 1817.a i i j / g f .•?«!] T9>3Jt M , J O j 1 Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 .V . 51 • 4 . v .; A P I ,'\ j r«? • https://archive.org/details/b22375156PREFACE. In proposing the following Syllabus, I am far from intending to embrace all the subjects of interest connected with the study of Anatomy: I have made a selection of those only which are the most important, and which will admit of being explained in the time to which the Lectures are limited. In this selection I have given the preference to Human Anatomy over what is called Com- parative Anatomy, by which is understood the Anatomy of the Brute creation. As in doing this I have deviated from the plan which was latterly followed by my prede- cessor, I may be expected to state my reasons for making this choice.PREFACE. Vi I am by no means disposed to undervalue the importance of the study of Comparative Ana- tomy. Inquiries into the structure and frame • { V. . i . > i of the lower classes of beings have very mate- rially assisted our researches after Physiological subjects, and have especially contributed to the elucidation of several obscure points. But in order that these inquiries may be thus useful, it is necessary that the inquirer should be ac- quainted with the structure of the Human Body, otherwise they can only lead to a blind admira- tion tending to no beneficial end. Human Anatomy, therefore, independently of its being more immediately connected with professional pursuits, a consideration undoubtedly of im- portance in a University like ours, has this also to recommend it, that it ought to be under- stood by those who are desirous of studying Comparative Anatomy to any useful purpose. With this view, and in order to afford an op- portunity to those who may wish to make them- selves acquainted with the subject, I intend inPREFACE. Vll a future year, should this proposal be approved of, to give a course in the succeeding term on Comparative Anatomy. The arrangement in this Syllabus has been made solely with the view of convenience in demonstration: I shall endeavour to adhere to it as closely as I can; some occasional devia- tions will be unavoidable from the nature of the subject. St. John's College, Jan. 28, 1817.117 iJ.> i ' 1 w; '»f.. I > t. . , / 9 lOl 'jr :HU|£l|i» > .j-v,,; f;;( . ■ v •: V- •; •>,» n ofiT 1 m ‘•rtfffHil s ! ■■■ » k» . ‘ . t r: r a -J ?. .. or no M 0 * “ ,/8 ,T*\ •SYLLABUS OF LECTURES ON ANATOMY, 1. Introductory remarks. — On the advan- tages to be derived from the study of Ana- tomy, and the motives for prosecuting it. 2. General view of the history of Anatomy. Remarks on the origin of the science, and on the state of anatomical knowledge among the ancients: Hippocrates, Aristotle, Galen, &c. The Arabians.—At the revival of learning in the fifteenth century.—Harvey’s discovery of the circulation of the blood. — Discovery of the thoracic, duct, and lacteal vessels.— Microscopical researches by Malpighi, Lew- enhock, &c.—De Graaf’s theory of generation. Discovery of the art of injection.—The ab- sorbent system.—Progress of the science during the eighteenth century: its present Astate.—The anatomy of structure. — Morbid anatomy.—Morgagni, Dr. Hunter, Dr. Bail- lie. — Physiology. — Comparative anatomy, its use and progress. 3. On the different kinds of anatomical pre- parations. The instruments, and methods of using them. 4. Remarks on the blood.—The appearance of the blood as it flows from a vein opened in a living animal. 9 Its coagulation, or separation, into C rassam entum, Serum. The nature of Serum: it is composed of Albumen, Gelatine, Serosity. The nature of Crassamentum: it consists of Fibrin, or fibrous matter. Cruor, the colouring matter, or red particles. 5. The nature of the buffy, or inflammatory coat, explained. 6. On the quantity of blood contained in the living body.3 7. The various uses of the blood in the animal economy.—To supply materials for all the solids and fluids of the body. A GENERAL SURVEY OF THE ORGANS of the ANIMAL BODY. 8. The simple solids: Haller’s opinions on the ultimate fibre hypothetical. 9. Cellular substance: its abundance, proper- ties, and use: the different states in which it is found. 10. Membranes, or tunics, divided into Serous, Mucous, Fibrous. 11. Vessels for containing the circulating fluids of three kinds, viz. Arteries : their form and use. Veins : their form, valves, and number. Absorbent vessels, divided into Lacteal s. Lymphatics:—their uses and structure. An astomoses—gl and s. 12. On Digestion. Its apparatus, consisting of The cavity of the mouth. The teeth, saliva, &c.4 The stomach : its use and form. The intestines: their form, length, and peristaltic motion. 13. Respiration. Changes produced on the air and blood by respiration. The lungs: their figure, situation, and structure. 14. Nutrition: its nature. The body repaired by homogeneous particles only. 15 Secretion. The differences of the secreted fluids, and their various uses. Conglomerate glands. 16. Exhalation : how performed. 17. Perspiration: serous fluids, fat. 18. The organic, or vegetable functions, are those subseivient to assimilation, and are com- mon to animals and vegetables. 19. The animal functions are those possessed by animals exclusively: viz. sensation and vo- luntary motion. 20. The brain, and its functions.'—The form of the brain, its coverings, and structure. 21. The spinal marrow and nerves. Nervous filaments. The organs of sense.5 22. Voluntary motion produced by muscular contraction. On the muscles: their struc- ture, situation, and uses. The tendons. 23. The bones: their forms and uses. The joints, &c. 24. The voice, larynx, &c. 25. The integuments of the body. Skin, hair, nails, &c. 26. Functions subservient to the preservation of the species. On the BONES. 27. The structure of bones fibrous. The dif- ferent direction of the fibres in the long and flat bones. 28. On the difference of form in bones.—The long bones, hollow, and cylindrical. Their extremities large. Processes, or apophyses: their uses. 29. On the chemical analysis of bone ; it consists of two materials, or substances. Earthy matter : the phosphate of lime. Animal matter, or gelatine. 30. The experiments to prove this fact. The6 proportions in which these two materials are found, is different at the different pe- riods of life. 31. The periosteum: its situation, structure, and use. 32. The vascularity of bone shewn by injections. The bones of living animals coloured by madder. 33. Absorption of osseous matter in disease. 34. Sensibility of bone in a healthy state very small, in disease occasionally great. 35. The marrow, how contained.—Its nature and use. Internal periosteum. 36. Formation of bone in the foetus : the changes which take place in the progress of ossifica- tion. Fractured bones, how united. 37. On the diseases to which bones are subject. Inflammation, anchylosis, necrosis, venereal disease, rickets, mollities ossium, frangi- litas ossium. 38. On the Joints. The different kinds of arti- culation. Cartilage : its structure, situa-7 tion, &c. Ligaments, different kinds of. Synovia—its nature and use, how secreted. 39. The strength and protection afforded to joints by muscles. 40. On the human skeleton, and the different kinds of skeletons and methods of preparing them. 41. General division of the skeleton into bones of the head, trunk, and extremities. The bones of the head divided into Bones of the cranium, Bones of the face. The trunk divided into The thorax, or chest. The spine, or vertebral column, The pelvis. The extremities divided into The upper extremities, The lower extremities. 42. The cranium consists of eight bones, viz. Os frontis, the two ossa parietal ia, os oc- cipitis, the two ossa temporalia, os sphe- noidale, os aethmoidale.—A particular de- scription of each bone. On the tables of the skull, and diploe.8 43. On the Sutures.—The four principal sutures are, S. coronalis, sagittalis, lambdoidalis, squamosa.—The ossa triquetra. 44. The use of the sutures, and their accidental varieties. The bregmata, their disappearance. 45. The bones of the face consist of, two ossa nasi, two ossa unguis, os maxilJare superius, two ossa palati, two ossa spongiosa, vomer, two ossa malee, os maxillare inferius.—A particular description of each bone, its form, situation, processes, and foramina. 46. On the Teeth.—General description of a tooth. The enamel, its chemical qualities, solubility in acids. 47. The number of the teeth, their division into incisores, cuspidati, bicuspidati, mol ares.— The peculiar characters of each. Dentes sapientiae. 48. Of the original formation of the teeth. The teeth of the child. The first set, or decidu- ous : the permanent, or second set.—Ol the loss of the teeth, and absorption of the al- veolar processes in old age.9 49. Observations on the form and magnitude of the skull. On the individual differences in the shape of the cranium. The facial angle of Camper, 50. On the generic, or national differences. The relative magnitude of the cranium and face in man and animals. 51. On the bones of the chest. The ribs: their number, form, &c. True and false ribs. The cartilages of the ribs. The sternum ; of its separate bones, the cartilago ensiformis. 52. On the motion of the ribs and sternum in respiration. 53. On the bones of the spine. The vertebrae: their number and general form. Divided into lumbar, dorsal, and cervical. The peculiar characters of each/ The atlas and dentatus. 54. The articulation of the vertebrae .—The in- tervertebral substance. The incurvations of the spine. B10 55. On the bones of the pelvis: consisting of the os sacrum, two ossa innominata, and os coccygis. The os sacrum: its form, situation, and con- nexions: false vertebras, &c. — The os innominatum, composed of the ilium, is- chium, and pubis: a particular descrip- tion of these bones. The acetabulum symphysis pubis.—Peculiar characters of the pelvis in the female skeleton.—The os coccygis : its form and motions. 57. The upper extremity : composed of, i. The scapula: its situation, general form, and mo- tions. 2. The clavicle: its situation, form, use, and attachments. 3. The humerus: its form, processes, and connexions. 4. The ulna : its form, &c. its articulation with the humerus. 5. The radius : its form, &c. the peculiarity of its motions. 6. The eight car- pal bones: their use, &c.—7- The metacarpal bones. 8. The bones of the fingers and thumb. 58. The lower extremity: composed of, l. The os femoris: its situation, magnitude, form, processes, and connexions.—2. The tibia: its form, &c. The inner ankle. 3. The11 fibula: its form* &c. the outer ankle. 4. The patella, or knee-pan.—5. The seven bones forming the tarsus. 6. The metatarsal bones. On the arch formed by these and the tarsal bones. 7. The bones or phalanges of the toes. 59. A comparison of the bones forming the upper and lower extremities, and of the peculiarities belonging to each in their freedom of motion, strength. See. On the MUSCLES. \ 60. The Muscles of the head and face: these are 1. Occipito frontalis, 2. Atollens aurem, 3. Anterior auris, 4. Posterior auris, 5. Orbicularis palpebrarum, 6. Corrugator supercilii, 7. Compressor naris 8. Levator labii superioris alzeque nasi, 9. Zygomaticus minor, 10. Zygomaticus major, 11. Levator anguli oris. 12. Depressor anguli oris, 13. Depressor labii inferioris, 14. Buccinator, 15. Orbicularis oris, 16. Depressor labii superiori* alseque nasi, 17. Levator labii inferioris, 18. Masseter, 19. Temporalis, 20. Pterygoideus externus, 21. Pterygoideus interims,12 61. Muscles situated on these are, 1. Platysma myoides, 2. Sterno-cleido-mastoideus, 3. Sterno-hyoideus, 4. Omo-hyoideus, 5. Sterno-thyroideus, 6. Thyro-hyoideus, 7. Crico-thyroideus, 8. Digastricus, 62. Muscles situated on 1. Pectoralis major, 2. Pectoralis minor, 3. Subclavius, 4. Scalenus anticus, 5. Scalenus medius, 6. Scalenus posticus, 63. Muscles situated on 1. Deltoides, 2. Supra-spinatus, 3. Infra-spinatus, 4. Teres minor, 5. TereS major, 64. Muscles situated on arm. 1. Pronator radii tefes, 2. Flexor carpi radial is, 3. Palmaris longus. the fore part of the neck 9. Stylo-hyoideus, 10. Stylo-glossus, 11. Stylo pharyngeus, 12. Mylo-hyoideus, 13. Genio-hyoideus, 14. Genio-hyo-glossus, 15. Hyo-glossus, 16. Lingualis. the chest, neck, &c. 7. Longus colli, 8. Rectus capitis internus major, 9. Rectus capitis intemus minor, 10. Rectus capitis lateralis. the shoulder and arm. 6. Subscapularis, 7. Biceps flexor cubiti, 8. Coraco-brachialis, 9. Brachialis internus, 10. Triceps extensor cubiti. the fore part of the fore 4. Flexor carpi ulnaris, 5. Flexor sublimis perforatus, 6. Flexor profundus perforaus.13 ( 7- F^xor longus pollicis manus, 8. Pronator quodratus. 65. Muscles situated on the outer and back part of the fore arm. 1. Supinator radii longus, 2. Extensor carpi radialis lon- gior, 3. Extensor carpi radialis bre- vior, 4. Extensor digitorum com- munis, 5. Extensor carpi ulnaris, 6. Anconeus, 7. Supinator radii brevis, 8. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, 9. Extensor primi internodii pollicis manus, 10. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis manus, 11. Indicator. 66. Muscles situated in the palm of the hand, &c. 1* Palmaris brevis, 2. Lumbricales, 3. Abductor pollicis manus, 4. Flexor ossis metacarpi pol- licis vel opponens pollicis, 5. Flexor brevis pollicis manus, 6. Adductor pollicis manus, 7. Abductor indicis manus, 8. Abductor minimi digiti, 9. Flexor parvus minimi di- giti, 10. Adductor metacarpi mini- mi digiti manus, 11. Interossei interni, 12. Interossei externi. 67. Muscles situated between the ribs. 1. Intercostales externi vel le- 2. Intercostales interni, vatores, m • * • ♦>. J riangulans stenu.14 68. Muscles situated on the posterior part of the trunk. 1. Trapezius tel cucullaris, 2. Latissimus dorsi, 3. Rhomboideus-major and minor, 4. Levator scapulae, 5. Serratus magnus, 6. Serratus posticus superior, 7. Splenius capitis, 8. Splenius colli, 9. Serratus posticus inferior, 10. Sacro lumbalis, 11. Longissimus dorsi, 12. Spinalis dorsi, 13. Cervicalis descendens, 14. Transversalis colli, 15. Trachelo-mastoideus, 69- Muscles of the abdomen: their geneial form and uses—these are, l. Obliquus externus vel descendens. j The linea alba, linea semilunaris, and linea transversae. The umbilicus, or navel: how formed.—The annulus abdominis: its form, &c. Pou- part’s ligament, or ligamentum fallopii- j Remarks on the different kinds of hemiae, and the methods of treating them. 16. Complexus vel biventer cervicis, 17. Semispinalis colli, 18. Semispinalis dorsi, 19. Rectus capitis posticus major, 20. Rectus capitis posticus minor, 21. Obliquus capitis superior, 22. Obliquus capitis inferior, 23. Multifidus spinae, 24. Interspinales, colli, dorsi, et lumborum, 25 Intertransversales, colli,dor- si, et lumborum.15 2. Obliquus interims abdominis vel as- cendens. Tlie cremaster muscle. 3. Transversalis abdominis. 4. Rectus abdominis: its sheath, how formed. 5. Pyramidalis. The diaphragm: its form and use. The perforations of the diaphragm. 1, Psoas parvus, 3- Iliacus interims, 2, Psoas magnus, 4. Q,uadratus luniliorum* 70. Muscles of the perineum, and organs of ge- neration. ]. Erector penis, 2. Accelerator urinze, 3. Transversus perinei, 4. Sphincter ani. 5. Levator ani, G. Coccygeus, 7. Sphincter vagina?, 8. Erector clitoridis. 71. Muscles of the thigh : those lying on the fore part of the thigh are, 1. Tensor vagina? femoris, 2. Sartorius, 3. Rectus femoris, 4. Vastus externus, 5. Vastus internus, 6. Crurzeus vel cruralis, 7. Gracilis, 8. Pectinalis, i). Triceps adductor femoris, divided into, 1. Adductor longus, 2. Adductor brevis, 3. Adductor magnus.16 72. Muscles of the thigh, on the back part. 1. Glutajus maximus, 2. Glutseus medius, 3. Glutasus minimus, 4. Pyriformis, 5. Gemini, 6. Obturator internus, 7. Quadratus femoris, 8. Obturator externus, 9. Biceps flexor cruris, 10. Semitendinosus. 73. Muscles of the leg, on the fore part. 1. Tibialis anticus, 2. Extensor longus digitorum © © pedis, 3. Peroneus tertius, [pedis, 4. Extensor proprius pollicis 5. Peroneus longus, 6. Peroneus brevis, 7. Extensor brevis digitorum pedis. 74. Muscles of the leg, on the back part. 1. Gastrocnemius externus, 2. Gastrocnemius internus vel sole us, 3. Plantaris, 4. Popliteus, 75. Muscles on the sole 1. Abductor pollicis pedis, 2. Abductor minimi digiti pedis, 3. Flexor brevis digitorum pe- dis perforatus, 4. Flexor digitorum accesso- rius vel massa carnea Jacobi Sylvii, 5. Lumbricales pedis, 5. Flexor longus digitorum pe- dis perforaus, 6. Flexor longus pollicis pedis, 7. Tibialis posticus. of the foot. 6. Flexor brevis pollicis pedis, 7. Adductor pollicis pedis, 8. Flexor brevis minimi digiti pedis, 9. Transversalis pedis, 10. Interossei pedis interni, 11. Interossei pedis externi.<•' * 17 O.v the PHYSIOLOGY of MUSCLES. 76. Genera] remarks on the extent of the mus- I cnlar system, and on the form of muscles. i '■ 77. On the intimate structure of a muscle : the nature and direction of the fibres. On simple muscles, penniform, semipennifonn muscles. On the blood-vessels, nerves, &c. supplying* the muscles. 78. The power of contraction which resides in the muscular fibre, and is peculiar to it, the cause of all the motions of the animal body. On the phenomena which exhibit themselves during the contraction and relaxation of a muscle. Muscular vibrations, described by Dr. Wollaston, (see Phil. Trans.) 79. The extent of muscular contraction. 80. The duration and rapidity of muscular con- traction, as exhibited by various observations and experiments • / • ^ f . \ 81. The force with which some muscles contract, calculated. Muscles generally act at a great mechanical disadvantage. c »18 The advantages of this arrangement, the loss of power compensated by the celerity of motion. Certain exceptions to this rule. 82. Muscles divided into voluntary and involun- tary. The voluntary muscles subservient to the animal functions. The involuntary muscles subservient to the organic or vegetable functions. » The muscles of respiration intermediate. 83. The question, how does the will act upon the voluntary muscles? considered. This is done through the medium of the brain and nerves: several facts mentioned to establish this opinion. 84. A due supply of arterial blood necessary to the healthy action of a muscle. The effect of certain metallic poisons, as lead, arsenic, &c. on the power of muscles. 85. Peculiarities of the involuntary muscles. The causes which excite them to act: their actions generally produced by the immediate contact of peculiar stimuli, as the blood, the food, &c. i19 86. On the various artificial stimuli to muscular contraction. On the influence of galvanic electricity on muscular motion. The ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 87. On the external figure of the abdomen, and its division into regions, viz. The epigastric, and two hypochondriac re- gions. The umbilical, and two iliac regions. The hypogastric, and two inguinal regions. 88. The peritoneum : its nature, and extent: of the serous fluid secreted by it, its quantity in health and disease. Of the surfaces of the peritoneum, its reflex- ions, or duplicatures; the ligaments of the liver.—The mesentery and omentum, fora- men of Winslow, little omentum. 89. Of the abdominal viscera. 90. The aesophagus: its course, situation, and termination. 91. The stomach: its situation, form, and mag- nitude. The curvatures of the stomach : its°20 orifices, the cardia and pylorus, the valve of the pylorus. 92. The small intestines divided into duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The duodenum: its situation, attachments, figure, course, termination, and length.— Jejunum and ileum, how distinguished: their situation and attachments to the me- sentery. The figure, blood-vessels, nerves, and lacteals of the mesentery. , The course of the small intestines. 93. The large intestines: their situation and extent. The colon, its valve; the caecum, or caput coli. The course of the colon, the ascend- ing portion, the transverse arch, the syg- moid flexure. The rectum, mesocolon, appendices epi- ploicae. 94. On the structure of the intestines : the three tunics, or coats. The external, or peritoneal coat. The middle, or muscular coat: its peculiari- ties in the stomach, small intestines, and21 large intestines: the nature and situation of the three bands of the large intestines. The muscular coat of the rectum. The mucous, or internal coat: its extent, structure, connexions, and uses.—The rugae of the stomach, valvulae conniventes and villi of the small intestines, and cells ot the large intestines: the mucous glands, or lacunae. 95. The peristaltic motion : its use, and peculiar stimuli. 96. On the liver: its situation, form. The right and left lobe, the lobulus spigelii. The great fissure, cavity of the portae, fissure ot the vena cava, notch for the vertebrae and depression for the gall-bladder. 97. The gall-bladder: its form, structure, use, and ducts.—Biliary concretions. 98. The pancreas: its situation, form, structure, use ; its duct.—The entrance of the duct together with the hepatic duct, into the duo- denum. 99. The spleen: its situation, figure, texture. size.100. The kidneys: their situation, form, capsules, pelves, ureters. 101. Capsulse renales: their situation, form, struc- ture, peculiarities in the foetus. PHYSIOLOGY, or FUNCTIONS of the ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 102. The actions of these viscera all subservient to the digestive process: an enquiry into this subject particularly interesting and use- ful, especially to men of sedentary habits. 103. All animals are said to possess an alimen- tary canal: the nature of this canal in man. 104. Mastication, the first process of digestion: how performed. The saliva: its nature, use, and quantity. The salivary glands: their ac- tion and peculiar stimuli. 105. Swallowing, how performed; the pharynx / and sesophagus. 106. The nature of the action of the stomach. Chyme : its appearance and properties. Theories to account for the changes pro- duced on the food whilst in the stomach.23 Coctio, or Treats of Hippocrates; putrefaction, trituration—the action of the gizzard in graminivorous animals. Fermentation.— The modern opinions on digestion : viz. that it is performed by the solvent powers of the gastric fluids. 107. Succus gastricus: its appearance and qua- lities, experiments of Stevens and Spallan- zani, &c. The gastric fluid acts upon animal matter, even out of the stomach and retards putrefaction. The stomach it- self sometimes partially dissolved under certain circumstances. The peculiar pro- perty of the gastric juice in coagulating milk and other albuminous fluids.—The ac- tion of the gastric juice not merely a che- mical action. 108. The length of time that the food usually remains in the stomach,—the manner in which it is propelled into the duodenum— the dilatation of the pylorus. 109. The pancreatic fluid: its nature, quantity, and use. 110. The bile: its properties. The structure of the liver : the mode in which the liver is24 supplied with blood. The vena portae, he- patic artery and veins. Pori biliarii, ductus hepaticus, ductus cysti- cus, ductus communis choledicus : the course of the bile. 111. The changes produced on the food by the admixture of pancreatic fluid and bile; separation of the chyle. 112. The absorption of the chyle, by the open mouths of the lacteals situated on the valvulae conniventes and inner surface of the intestines.—Progress of the chyle to the receptaculum chyli, the thoracic duct, and left jugular vein. 113. Passage of the residue of the food along the canal, through the valve of the colon into the large intestines. 114. The action of the large intestines, changes produced on the food in them, the fluids secreted by the glands, foecation. 115. The use of the spleen uncertain. The spleen supposed by some physiologists to be i a gland; by others, to be a kind of supple-25 meritarv organ to the stomach. Conjectures of Sir E. Home on this subject. 116. On the action and structure of the kidneys: cortical, and tubular part; papillae, calices or infundibula. The quantity of urine secreted, and the causes which influence it.—Dropsy, dia- betes.—Chemical properties of urine.— Urinary calculi: their varieties. — The medical treatment of this disease. 117. On the nature of hunger: its effects when extreme: the length of time to which fast- ing may be protracted; some histories of long continued fasting. The proximate cause of hunger and thirst. 118. On the quantity of aliment necessary to a man in health.—Bulimia, or an unnatural appetite for food : cases of this disease. 119. Remarks on the various substances which form the food of man, these taken from the vegetable and animal kingdoms. 120. The question considered, whether man is naturally herbivorous or carnivorous? D26 Observations on the peculiarities of struc- ture, which distinguish herbivorous and carnivorous animals, in the teeth, form, and number of the stomachs, length and and magnitude of the intestines, &c.— Man omnivorous. 121. Experiments by Gosse, to determine the re- lative ease with which different kinds of food are digested, and on the substances which promote or retard digestion. 122. A man’s own observation the best guide for himself. On the bad effects of excess in eating and drinking. On the THORACIC VISCERA. 123. On the boundaries, extent, and general form of the thorax. 124. On the cavity of the thorax, the pleura pul- monalis, pleura costalis, and mediastinum. 125. On the contents of the thorax. The lungs : their magnitude, figure, appearance. 126. The anterior mediastinum contains the thymus gland, pericardium, and heart.27 127. The posterior mediastinum contains the aesophagus, trachea, vena azygos, nerves. 128. The lungs divided into lobes; the right lung larger than the left. On the healthy and morbid appearance of the lungs. On the structure of the lungs.—Their tex- ture, crepitation. On the vessels of the lungs, the arteries, veins bronchi, or air-cells. 129. On the trachea : its situation, course, distri- bution : its structure, cartilages, and mucous membrane. 130. The thymus gland: its situation, colour, and appearance ; magnitude in the foetal state. 131. On the pericardium: its situation, extent, and connexions. On the structure of the pericardium: its dis- eases; the reflected portion. 132. The heart: its figure, position, and attach- ments. 133. The heart divided into two portions, right28 and left, or anterior and posterior:—each portion contains an auricle and a ventricle. Hence in man the heart is double, in fishes and reptiles it is single. 134. The right auricle: its form, connexions, and situation.—The auricula, inner membrane, musculi pectinati; entrance of the vense cavae, tuberculum Loweri, fossa ovalis, an- nulus ovalis, Eustachian valve, valve of the coronary vein, foramina thebesii. 135. The right ventricle : its situation and form.— Ostium venosum, columnae carneae, chordae tendineoe; tricuspid valve, its form, use, &c. The pulmonary artery, semilunar valves, corpora aurantii.—Sides of the ventricle. 136 Left auricle: pulmonary veins, valvula mi- tralis, &c. 137. Left ventricle: aorta, semilunar valves, sinuses of the aorta, coronary arteries. 138. The two sides of the heart compared. 139. The motion, or circulation of the blood necessary to the uses it serves in the animal29 economy. The heart the chief instrument in the circulation, next the blood-vessels. 140. Progress of the blood through the heart, from the right auricle, to the right ventricle, through the lungs to the left auricle, and left ventricle. 141. The blood passes from the left ventricle to the arteries, and back to the heart through the veins. 142. The two auricles filled at the same instant, viz. at the moment the two ventricles are emptied, and vice versa: dilatation of the cavities of the heart not merely passive : cause of the pulsation felt in the interval of the fifth and sixth ribs on the left side. 143. Quantity of blood thrown out of the heart at each pulsation : the force with which the blood is projected : heart always in action. 144. Frequency of the pulse in health and disease. 145. Causes which accelerate or retard the motion of the blood; the right ventricle the ultimum moriens.4 30 146. The manner in which the arteries and veins assist the motion of the blood. 147. Structure of an artery: the three tunics or coats. Is the second or middle coat of an artery muscular? 148. Abundance and general characters of the arterial system. Anastomoses. 149. Communication of the arterial and venous systems by means of capillary vessels ; secre- tion, nutrition, exhalation, &c. performed in the capillaries. 150. Venous system : the general characters of the veins; the causes which propel the blood along the veins ; the use of the valves. 151. The passage of the blood through the lungs called the lesser circulation. 152. Respiration, or some analogous process common to all living beings.—Of the man- ner in which it is performed in plants, fishes, insects, reptiles, birds, and the mam- malia. 153. Respiration : how performed in man.31 the action of the diaphragm, intercostal muscles, &c. 154. On sighing, yawning, panting, coughing, sneezing, laughing, crying, &c. 155. On the frequency of respiration, and the quantity of air employed . 156. On the changes which the air undergoes in the lungs during respiration.—On the che- mical constitution of the atmosphere. 157. Difference between arterial and venous blood. 158. On the quantity of aqueous vapor discharged by the lungs. 159. On the causes which preserve the animal temperature. Mr. Brodie’s experiments. 160. On suffocation by strangling, drowning, respiration of noxious airs, &c. and on the methods to be employed for the recovery ot persons who have been exposed to suffo- cation . On the ARTERIES 161. The aorta gives off, i • The two coronary arteries.32 2. The arteria innominata, which divides into The right subclavian, The right carotid. 3. The left carotid. 4. The left subclavian. 162. The carotid artery divides into the external and internal carotid. The branches of the external carotid are, 1. Arteria superior thyroidea, 2. Ranina vel lingualis, 3. Maxillaris externa, 4. Pharyngea inferior, 5. Occipitalis, 6. Posterior auris, 7. Maxillaris interna, 8. Temporalis. 163. The branches of the internal carotid are, 1. Arteria ophthalmica, 3. Anterior cerebri, 2. Media cerebri, 4. Communicans. 164. The branches of the subclavian artery are, 1. Arteria vertebralis, 3. Cervicales, 2. Thyroidea inferior, 4. Mammalia iuterna 165. Those of the axillary artery are, 1. Mammaria externa, 3. Infra scapularis, 2. Supra scapularis, 4. Circumflex* humeri. 166. The brachial artery gives off, 1. Profunda humeri superior, 3. Rami Anastomotici. 2. Profunda humeri inferior,33 167. It divides into three branches, viz. 1. Arteria radialis: which gives off, 1. Arteriae recurrentes, 4. Pollicis, 2. Ramus volaris, 5. Palmaris profunda. 3. Dorsales carpi et pollicis, 2. Arteria ulnaris: which gives off, 1. Arteriae recurrentes, 3. Palmaris profunda and su- 2. Dorsalis carpi, perficialis, 3. Arteria interossea. 168. The aorta, in passing through the thorax gives off, 1. Arteriae bronchiales, 3. Intercostales, 2. iEsophageae, 4. Phrenicae. 169. Whilst in the abdomen, the aorta gives off, 1. Arteria caeliaca: whose branches are, 1. Arteria coronaria ventriculi, 3. Splenica, 2. Hepatica, a. Arteriae pancreaticae, a. Coronaria dextra, /3. Vasa brevia, /3. Gastro-epiploica dextra, <y. Gastro-epiploica sinistra. 2. Arteria mesenterica superior. 1. Ueo-colica, 3. Colica media. 2. Colica dextra, 3. Arteriae renales, 4. Arteriae spermaticae, 5. Arteria mesenterica inferior. E34 1. Colica sinistra, 2. Haemorrhoidalis interna. 6. Arteriae lumbares. 170. The aorta terminates in the two iliacae com- munes: and the sacra media comes off at their bifurcation. The iliaca communis divides into, 1. Arteria iliaca interna, 2. Iliaca externa. 171. The branches of the iliaca interna are. 1. Ileo-lumbalis, 2. Sacrae-laterales, 3. Glutaea, 4. Sciatica, 5. Pudica, which divides into, 1. Arteria perinei, 2. Dorsalis penis. 6. Obturatoria, 7. Hypogastrica. 172. The branches of the iliaca externa are, 1. Arteria epigastrica, 3. Femoralis. 2. Circumflexa ilei, 173. The arteria femoralis gives off, 1. Profunda femoris, 3. Circumflex®, 2. Arteriae perforantes, 4. Poplit®a. 174. The arteria poplitea divides into, l. Arteria tibialis antica: whose branches are, 1. Arteria recurrens, 4. Metatarsalis, 2. Malleolares, 5. Dorsalis halucis. 3. Tarsalis,35 2. Arteria tibialis postica. 1. Plantaris interna, 2. PJantaris externa. 3. Arteria peronea. On the VEINS. 175. Vena jugularis externa. Facialis, Temporalis. Vena jugularis interna. Vena cephalica. Vena basilica. Vena mediana. Vena axillaris and subclavia. Venae cavae. Vena azygos. Vena saphena major. Vena saphena minor. Vena iliaca. Vena portae. On the ABSORBENTS. 176. On the discovery of the thoracic duct, lac- teals, and lymphatic vessels.—On the doc- trine of absorption. 177. General characters of the absorbent vessels : their coats or tunics, valves, anastomoses.36 178. On the passage of the lymph along the ab- sorbents. 179. On the absorbent glands: their structure and uses. 180. General distribution of the absorbents throughout the body. 181. Course of the lactealc.—The receptaculum chyli.—Thoracic duct: its course through the thorax and termination in the subclavian vein. 182. On the lymphatics coming from the lower extremities and abdominal viscera. 183. Lymphatics of the head and upper extre- mity on the left side. 184. Those of the right side, and their termina- tion in the right subclavian vein. On the BRAIN. 185. The membranes of the brain, viz. dura mater, arachnoides, pia mater.37 186. Dura mater: its structure, use. The process- es of the dura mater, viz. falx, tentorium, falx cerebelli. . * 187. Sinuses of the dura mata, viz. the longi- tudinal sinus, lateral sinuses, inferior longi- tudinal sinus, fourth sinus or torcular herophili, &c.—Glandulae pachioni. 188. Tunica arachnoides: its situation and struc- ture. 189. Pia mater: situation, distribution, structure, and use. 190. The brain divided into cerebrum, cerebel- lum, medulla oblongata. 191. Cerebrum: its situation, figure; hemis- pheres, lobes.—Convolutions. 192. Cortical and medullary substances : corpus callosum, centrum ovale. 193. Lateral ventricles, septum lucidum, cornua of the ventricles, fornix, corpora striata, lyra, plexus choroides.—Thalami nervorum opticorum, anterior tubercle, taenia, com- missura anterior, vulva, commissura mollis.38 194. Third ventricle, foramen commune poste- rius, pineal gland, commissura posterior, iter ad quartum ventriculum, tubercula quadrigemina, valvula major. Hippocam- pus major and minor, teenia hippocampi. 195. Cerebellum: its magnitude, situation, and form.—Processus vermiformes, arbor vitae, peduncle, fourth ventricle, calamus scrip- torius. 196. Appearance of the lower surface or base of the brain.—Corpora albicantia, infundibu- lum, pituitary gland. 197. Medulla oblongata, tuber annulare, crura cerebri, crura cerebelli, corpora pyramidalia, corpora olivaria. 198. Origins of the nine pairs of nerves. First pair, or olfactory nerves. Second pair, or optic nerves. Third pair, or motores oculorum. Fourth pair, or troclileares. Fifth pair, or trigemini, divided into three portions. 1st go to the appendages of the eye.39 2d to the upper jaw and face, 3d to the lower jaw and tongue. Sixth pair, or abductores. Seventh pair, divided into portio dura and portio mollis. Eighth pair, or par vagum. Ninth pair, or lingual nerve. 199. Medulla spinalis: its structure, situation, cauda equina. Coverings of the medulla spinalis, ligamen- tum denticulatum. 200. Thirty pairs of nerves are given off by the medulla spinalis, viz. 8 cervical, / 9 dorsal, 10 lumbar, 5 sacral. 201. On the origin and course of the great sym- pathetic nerve, &c. its plexuses and ganglia. 202. The phrenic nerve : its origin and distribu- tion. 203. The general distribution of the nerves throughout the body.40 PHYSIOLOGY of the BRAIN and NERVES. 204. The brain and nerves the medium of sensa- tion. The faculties of the mind supposed to reside in the brain. 205. Pressure on the brain produces coma, or insensibility.—Other injuries of the brain, as inflammation, &c. cause correspondent affections of the mental faculties. 206. Insanity and idiotcy often produced by dis- ease and malformation of the contents of the skull. 207. Considerable disease, and even partial de- struction of the cerebral mass sometimes unaccompanied by any derangement of the mind. 208. Physiology of the brain obscure: various theories on the subject. Hypotheses of Des Cartes, Gall, &c. 209. The brain the organ of perception: impres- sions made on the extremities of the nervous propagated to the brain:—arguments in favor of this opinion.41 210. The question considered, in what manner are these impressions conveyed along the nerves to the brain? Various theories on the subject investigated. 211. The susceptibility of receiving impressions, influenced by causes external to the nerves themselves. 212. Nervous communication necessary to the ac- tion of the voluntary muscles. 213. The preservation of the temperature of the body depends on the action of the brain and nerves.—Secretion owes its activity to the nervous energy. 214. The doctrine of sympathies investigated: various examples of sympathetic actions. 215. Paralysis, or a loss of sensation and motion affecting a part of the body, frequently the effect of an injury of the brain. 216. The part of the body opposite to that side of the brain which is injured, usually paralized. 217. On the nature of sleep: its duration and proximate cause, &c. p42 218. On the action of certain narcotic medicines and poisons on the animal frame: alcohol essential oil of bitter almonds, oil of tobacco, woorara, &c. On the EYE. 219. On the eye-ball ; its situation, figure, struc- ture, tunics. 220. The sclerotica: its structure, form ; the en- trance of the optick nerve. 221. The cornea: its figure, structure, union with the sclerotica. 222. The conjunctiva: its structure, extent, use. 223. The choroid coat: its extent, connexions, structure, colour, pigmentum nigrum, ta- petum. Orbiculus ciliaris, corpus ciliare, ciliary processes. 224. The iris: its situation, surface,colour, struc- ture, use; the pupil, uvea, motions of the iris. 225. The retina: its appearance, situation, struc- ture ; optick nerve, lamina cribrosa. Insen-4 3 • I sible part of the retina: foramen centrale of Soemmering. % 226. Membrana pnpillaris: its structure, and use. 227. The humours of the eye. The vitreous humour, its situation, &c. Mem- brana hyaloides ; the structure of the vi- treous humour, its capsule: canal of Petit. 228. The crystalline humour: its figure, struc- ture, capsule. 229. The aqueous humour: its quantity, cap- sule, anterior and posterior chambers of the eye. 230. On the motions of the eye. The muscles inserted into the eye-ball, viz. Four recti muscles. Two obliqui. The levator palpebrae superioris. 231. The eye-brow: its form, and uses. 232. The eye-lids, tarsi, eye-lashes, glandule meibomiae, edges of the eye-lids. 233. The tears: lacrymal gland, puncta lacry-44 malia, lacrymal ducts, lacrymal sac, nasal duct, caruncula lacrymalis. 234. On vision: on the inverted image ioi med on the retina. 235. On the manner in which the eye adapts itself to the different distances of objects. On the EAR. 236. On the external parts of the ear. The pinna, the helix, the antihelix, the tragus, the antitragus, the concha, the lobule. 237. The muscles of the pinna. 238. The meatus auditorius externus: its course, length, &c. Glandular ceruminosae. 239. The cavity of the tympanum: its boun- daries, form, &c.—Fenestra ovalis, fenestra rotunda, promontory, opening into the mas- toid cells.—Eustachian tube, its course, and use —The membrane lining the tympanum. 240. Membrana tympani: its structure, situa- , tion, use, &c. 241. Bones of the ear: the malleus, the incus.45 the os orbiculare, the stapes; their form, attachments, &c. 242. On the muscles attached to them, viz. Laxator tympani, Tensor tympani, Superior malleii. Stapedius. 243. The labyrinth, its division: the vertibule, foramina, fovece, semicircular canals. 244. The cochlea, modiolus, infundibulum ; in- ternal structure of the labyrinth, the aque- ducts. 245. Physiology of the ear. On the NOSE. 246. On the external figure of the nose: its struc- ture, cartilages, septum narium. 247. On the internal cavities of the nose, the openings into the aethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, the antrum, nasal duct, Eustachian tube.—The mucous membrane. 248. On the sense of smelling, &c.46 On the MOUTH. 249. The cavity of the mouth: its boundaries, form, &c. 250. On the lips: their structure and sensibility. 251. The mucous membrane and glands of the mouth. 252. The palate. Velum pendulum palati, &c. 253. Uvula. The muscles of the velum, viz. Levator palati mollis, Circumflexus palati, Azygos uvulae. 254. The tonsils: their form, and structure. On the TONGUE. 255. The os hyoides: its situation, figure, &c. 256. The form, situation, and attachments of the tongue. 257. Muscles of the tongue, viz. Hyo-glossus, ' ! i Stylo-glossus, Genio-glossus, Lingualis.47 258. The mucous covering of the tongue. Pa- pillae maximae, foramen caecum, papillae fungiformes: papillae villosae. 259. The salivary glands : parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. 260. The pharynx: its situation, form, attach- ments, and structure. The muscles, viz. Constrictor pharyngis inferior. Constrictor pharyngis medius. Constrictor pharyngis superior, Pharyngeus. 261. The aesophagus. 262. The larynx: its five cartilages, viz. The thyroid. The cricoid. The two arytenoid, The epiglottis: their figures, connex- ions, uses, &c. 263. The ligaments, chordae vocales, ventricles of the larynx. The muscles, viz. Crico-arytenoideus posticus, Crico-arytenoideus lateralis, • ;48 Thyro-arytenoideus, Crico-thyroideus, Arytenoideus. 264. The voice, or formation of articulate sounds. On the INTEGUMENTS of the BODY. . 265. The skin, composed of The cutis, its papillae glands, &c. The rete mucosum, its colour, &c. The cuticle. 266. The hairs: their form, structure, &c. 267. The nails: their structure, use, &c. 268. The cutaneous perspiration: its nature, quantity, causes, uses. On the ORGANS and FUNCTION of GENERATION - ' l '! : * * * \ 269. Remarks on the general characters which distinguish the sexes. ORGANS of GENERATION in the MALE. 270. The urinary bladder: its situation, form.49 structure.—The ureters, their course, and termination in the bladder ; the opening of the urethra. 271- The testes : the scrotum, tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, tubuli testis, corpus High- morianum, rete vasculosum, vasa efferentia, epididymis, vas deferens, spermatic chord. 272. The vesiculae seminales: their situation, structure, use, &c. 273. The urethra, prostate gland, veru monta- num, the membranous portion and bulb of the urethra. 274. The corpora cavernosa penis, corpus spongi- osum, glans penis, preputium : Cowper’s and other mucous glands: the diseases of the urethra, gonorrhaea, gleet, stricture, &c. 275. On the descent of the testis in the foetus. The FEMALE ORGANS of GENERATION. 276. The labia, the clitoris, the nymphae, the orifice of the urethra. G50 277. The vagina: its rugae, hymen, carunculae myrtiformes. 278. The uterus: its form, situation, structure.— Os tincae.—The ligaments of the uterus. The mucous lining. 279. On the menses: their periodical return and duration, &c. 280. The Fallopian tubes: their situation, struc- ture, &c.—The fimbriae: their use. 281. The ovaries: their figure, structure; ova or ovula of de Graaf. 282. General remarks on the physiology of the organs of generation. 283. On the progress of the ovum along the Fal- lopian tube.—The corpus luteum. Extra- uterine conceptions. 284. On the growth of the embryo in the uterus and the changes which take place in the organ itself. 285 On the membrana decidua, the chorion and amnios: the liquor amnii. 286. The umbilical chord., The placenta, its51 connexion with the uterus.—Structure of the placenta. . 287. On parturition and its different stages. 288. On the secretion of milk. 289. On the peculiarities which characterize the form and organization of the foetus. 290. On the foetal circulation.—Ductus venosus, ductus arteriosus, foramen ovale, hypogas- tric arteries. 291. On the methods by which we are to ascer- tain whether or not a child has been still- born. 292. General remarks on life and death. Conclusion. /