LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden > 30106023338493MSC 1 JU>1 a v 550 870723 pr*- London borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW33HA Tel: 01 278 4444 Extensions: Book Renewals 3021 Lending Library 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES.EDINBURGH SCHOOL OF COOKERY AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY, Ltd. 3, 4, and 6 Atholl Crescent. Founded October 1875. OTUDENTS are received for any number of ^ selected Lessons or Courses, and may be boarded at the School. Special Curriculum for the “Housewife’s Diploma.” Teachers trained in Cookery, Laundry Work, Housewifery, Needle- work, Dressmaking, and Millinery; Lady House- keepers, Cooks, and Laundresses trained; Preparatory Classes for students who desire to enter hospitals for Professional Training as Nurses; Lectures on the Theory of Education and Method of Teaching, on the Elementary Chemistry of Food and the Physiology of Digestion, on Elementary Hygiene, on Home Sick Nursing, and on House- keeping. See Prospectus. %dll communications to be addressed to the Secretary.EDINBURGH SCHOOL OF COOKERY AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY, Ltd. PLAIN GOO THOMAS NELSON AND SONS LONDON, EDINBURGH, DUBLIN, AND NEW YORK£4*1-£ T870723 ACmc)CONTENTS. Preliminary, .... 1 Soups, .... .... .... 13 Fish, .... .... 26 Meat, .... .... ■••• 35 Sauces, .... .... 65 Vegetables and Salads, ... .... .... 71 Pastry, .... .... .... 79 Puddings and Sweet Dishes, .... .... 86 Eggs, Savouries, and Breakfast Dishes, .... 112 Bread, Cakes, Biscuits, .... .... .... 119 Jams, Jellies, etc., .... .... 138 Sick-room Cookery, •«»* .... 143Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538074PRELIMINARY The aim in compiling this book has been to present dishes that are suitable for home use, and that are well within the reach of moderate incomes. A knowledge of cookery is not all that is needed on the part of the housewife and cook; careful thought and wise economy in marketing, and in the management of the larder and storeroom, are also essential. Marketing*—To begin at the butcher’s. The choice of meat should be made personally if possible, rather than by writing or by messenger. By doing this a more economical joint or cut of meat is often secured, and it can also be ascertained if the meat is in good condition for use. Beef or Mutton should always be hung before it is cooked by a dry method such as roasting, grilling; or frying, and for these methods the more expensive cuts are used. The best joints of beef for roasting are the sirloin and the ribs; for grilling and frying, steak cut from the rump. The price per pound of these cuts is high, but it must be remembered that there is little waste in them. More in- expensive cuts may be chosen for boiling or stewing—the thick runner for boiling, and round steak for stewing, are good examples. Mutton*—The most suitable cuts for roasting are the saddle, leg, and shoulder. Chops from the loin are muchPRELIMINARY. 8 esteemed, and for cutlets the best end of the neck is the most suitable. Excellent stew can be made from cheaper cuts—example, scrag end neck of mutton. Veal, being immature meat, must be eaten fresh, and it must also be thoroughly cooked. The best cut is the fillet. This is used for cutlets or for roasting, and though expensive it is economical, as there is little waste. The breast, neck, and shoulder are excellent for stews, and the head and knuckle are unequalled for stock. Lamb, like veal, is immature, therefore it must be well cooked. When it first comes into season, about February, it is divided into the forequarter, which includes the shoulder, ribs, and neck; and the hindquarter, which includes the leg and the loin. At this season lamb is expensive; later in the year it is divided into joints in the same way as mutton. Pork should be chosen with care. Nowadays, owing to the strict inspection of food, it is usually quite safe, and forms a pleasant variety in diet. Pork should never be eaten in summer. The leg and loin are suitable cuts for roasting, the legs are often salted for hams, and the sides for bacon. Pig’s head is excellent for brawn. Poultry.—Chickens and young fowls should be chosen for roasting, and older fowls are suitable for boiling. A young fowl should have a plump breast, soft legs, and pliable feet. Poultry is valuable as a food, as it gives variety in the diet, and is a nourishing and easily-digested form of animal food. Ducks are less digestible than chickens; the same points should be observed in their choice as in the choice of fowls. Fish*—Signs by which the freshness of fish can be ascer- tained are: (i) a fresh smell, (2) the flesh firm, (3) the eyes bright, (4) the gills red. 1. White Fish—examples, haddock, sole, whiting, etc. InPRELIMINARY. 9 white fish the oil is stored in the liver. This is removed before cooking, and the fish is light and digestible. 2. Oily Fish—examples, salmon, herring, mackerel. The oil is dispersed through the flesh, and this renders the fish more nourishing than white fish, but more difficult to digest. The rule is that all fish must be eaten as soon as possible after it is caught. Turbot, cod, skate, and salmon may, in cool weather, be kept a day or two. The Greengrocer*—All vegetables should be used fresh. Green vegetables should be crisp, of a good colour, and have a fresh smell; and they should be bought as they are re- quired. Root vegetables, if in good condition, are firm and unshrivelled. They can in many cases be stored by covering them with straw and soil for winter use. Fruit, when good, in addition to being fresh, must be perfectly ripe and sound for table use. Butter*—Fresh butter is best purchased in small quan- tities from a reliable dealer. It should be kept in a cool larder, merely covered with a piece of muslin. Salt butter, being preserved, can be bought in large quantities, and kept tightly covered. Eggs*—When eggs are plentiful—in spring and early autumn—a wise housekeeper should buy in a considerable quantity, and preserve them for winter use. The use of “ water glass ” is an easy and reliable method of preserving eggs. It can be bought at a grocer’s or chemist’s, with full directions for its use on each tin. Storeroom*—A storeroom should be cool, well ventilated, dry, and removed from drain-pipes. It should be provided with shelves for the storage of provisions. The storeroom must be kept clean, swept and dusted daily, and the shelves and floor scrubbed frequently. All jars and bottles should10 PRELIMINARY. be plainly labelled, and the stores methodically arranged and regularly given out. In a household furnished with a suitable storeroom, it is economical to buy certain provisions in large quantities— examples, sugar and soap. Flour, oatmeal, and dry groceries generally are best ordered in moderate quantities, according to the needs of the household, as they become musty if kept too long. Anything with a strong taste or smell is better bought in small quantities—examples, pepper, coffee, spice, etc. The Larder*—The ideal position for a larder is a north aspect, to ensure coolness. The greatest care must be taken to keep the larder scrupulously clean. In the larder is kept cooked and also uncooked food. Uncooked meat or poultry should be hung from hooks in the ceiling. All the cooked meat must be removed from gravies, sauces, and vegetables before it is put in the larder. Stocks, soups, and sauces should be boiled, and then allowed to become cool, before they are put aside for future use. Daily Choice of Food*—A housekeeper should try to arrange the daily meals having regard to the money at her disposal, the occupation and requirements of the family, and the season of the year. It is a mistaken idea to imagine that animal food is neces- sary in large quantities. It is certainly a very important part of the daily diet, but the flesh-forming properties of this particular food may be supplied in cheaper form by the use of pulse foods, cereals, eggs, cheese, and milk. An intelli- gent combination of these foods, together with vegetables and fruit, will supply a varied and healthy diet at a moderate cost. Combinations of food with which custom has long familiarized us point to this fact—examples, macaroni and cheese, eggs and bacon, etc. Frequently in a larder there may be broken meat, vegetables, sauces, which with thought and care can be combined to form an appetizing dinner.PRELIMINARY. 11 Let us suppose that the housekeeper has at her disposal a knuckle of ham, the remains of a joint of mutton, some gravy, some cold potatoes, a quart of milk. A wholesome meal would result if she made lentil soup, using the ham bone and the vegetables; cottage pie from the cold mutton, gravy, and potatoes; and a milk pudding. This is a very simple example of the combination and economy of food; but whether the income be large or small, the food costly or simple, there should be equal care and attention exercised, so that waste may be avoided, and that the best result for the amount of money expended may be obtained.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. SOUPS. First Stock* This is the liquid in which fresh meat, bones, and vegetables have been cooked. First stock may be :— (a) BROWN STOCK. Two pounds shin or shoulder of beef. Small carrot. Small onion. Ten white peppercorns. Stick of celery, or one half- teaspoonful of celery seeds tied in muslin. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Two quarts of cold water. Measure the water into a strong pan; add salt. Wipe and cut the meat into small pieces, removing fat and skin, and add to the water. Scrape the bone well, remove the marrow, wash to remove fat, and put into the pan. Bring the stock slowly to boiling-point—about three-quarters of an hour. Remove any gray-looking scum; add the prepared vegetables cut into large pieces. Simmer the stock from three to four hours. Strain through a hair sieve. When cold skim thor- oughly. The stock is then ready for soups, etc. (b) WHITE STOCK. Proportion and preparation the same as for brown stock, only use knuckle of veal or bones and trimmings of chickens or rabbits instead of beef. For white stock omit the carrot.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. x4 Second or Household Stock. Put the bones and meat from which first stock has been made into the stockpot. Cover with the same quantity of water; add half a teaspoonful of salt; bring to boiling-point and skim. Add pieces of fresh carrot, onion, turnip, and celery, and let the stock simmer. Into the household stock may be put trimmings of cooked or uncooked meat and poultry, and bones, which should be freed from fat or sauce. No bread, green vegetables, or starchy materials should be put into the stockpot. Simmer household stock from six to seven hours, adding more water when necessary. Strain into an earthenware vessel. Keep the stock uncovered. When cold skim well, and use for soup, sauces, gravies, etc. Fish Stock. Two pennyworth of fish trim- mings. One onion. A stick of celery. Six white peppercorns. One blade of mace. Salt. One quart of cold water. Thoroughly cleanse the trimmings, and put them into a saucepan with the water and salt. Bring slowly to the boil, and skim thoroughly. Add celery, peppercorns, and mace, and allow all to simmer for forty minutes, then strain. This stock can be used for fish soup or sauce. Note.—(i.) If better stock is desired, a haddock or a cod’s head can be used instead of fish trimmings. (2.) If fish stock is cooked too long, a bitter flavour is extracted from the bones.SOUPS. I5 Kidney Soup. One ox-kidney. Two ounces dripping. Two ounces flour. One quart stock. One quart water. Half a turnip. One carrot. One onion. One bunch of herbs (compris- ing a sprig of thyme, mar- joram, and parsley, and one bay leaf). One blade of mace. Half a teaspoonful of black peppercorns. Salt. Remove the skin, wash and dry the kidney, cut it in small pieces, keeping back all the core. Skin and scald the onion; dry and cut it in thin rings. Make the dripping smoking hot in a large deep pan; toss the kidney lightly in the flour, and fry to a good brown colour. Lift the pieces out, and fry the onion and remaining flour till well browned. Put back the pieces of kidney; add the stock, water, and salt; bring slowly to the boil, and skim carefully. Prepare the carrot and turnip; cut them in blocks; add to the soup with the herbs and the peppercorns; simmer for four or five hours. Strain through a sieve, and when cold remove all fat. Return the soup to the pan ; rinse the pieces of kidney, and add them to the soup. When hot serve in a tureen. Note.—Half an ox-kidney or three sheep-kidneys make one quart of soup. Ox-Tail Soup is made in the same way, but the tail must be jointed, freed from superfluous fat, blanched, and dried before frying. Serve pieces of tail and rounds of cooked carrot in the soup.i6 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Mulligatawny Soup. One rabbit or two pounds lean mutton. One apple. One onion. Small carrot. Small turnip. A bouquet of herbs. Salt, and li Two ounces dripping. One ounce curry powder and half a teaspoonful curry paste. Two ounces flour. One quart second stock. One quart water, mon juice. Wash and cleanse the rabbit; cut into small joints, or cut the mutton into small pieces. Chop the apple and onion finely. Melt the dripping; when hot fry the meat lightly. Lift joints from the pan; then fry the onion, apple, curry I powder, curry paste, and flour. Add the meat, the liquid, salt, and herbs. Bring to the boil, and skim. Put in the prepared vegetables. Simmer for two or three hours. Strain through a fine sieve, and when cold skim. Reheat the soup. If rabbit is used, add small pieces as garnish. Serve with boiled rice. Note.—A two-pound tin of Australian mutton is a cheap substitute. Two pounds bones, cooked or uncooked. One carrot. One turnip Bone Soup* One onion. A bunch of herbs, twelve pep- percorns, and salt. One ounce dripping. Two quarts cold water. Melt the dripping; when hot fry the bones brown, then t cover with the water; add the salt, bring to the boil, and r skim. Put into the soup the vegetables, herbs, and pepper- „ corns. Simmer gently for four or five hours. Strain through a a fine sieve, reheat, and thicken.SOUPS. 17 To thicken.—(1.) Add one ounce sago or crushed tapioca to each quart of soup, and boil until the grain looks clear— about ten minutes. (2.) To every quart of soup break one ounce cornflour to a smooth paste with a little stock or sherry. Strain into the boiling soup, cook for five minutes, and serve. Gravy Soup. One pound lean juicy beef. One quart cold water. Blocks of carrot and turnip. One stick of celery. Pepper and salt. One ounce dripping. One ounce flour. One teaspoonful ketchup. Wipe the meat, and cut it down into small pieces; put it into a saucepan with the water and salt; bring it slowly to the boil, and skim. Add the vegetables and pepper, and simmer slowly for two hours. Strain through a hair sieve; when cool free from fat. Melt the butter, add the flour, and brown them carefully. Add the stock by degrees, boil well, and add the ketchup at the last. Giblet Three sets of giblets (either duck or chicken). One ounce ham. One carrot, turnip, and onion. Two sticks of celery. Soup. A bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt. One quart water. One ounce butter. One ounce flour. Wash well the giblets, and cut them up in pieces. Put them into a pan, with the water and salt. Bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Then add the vegetables cut in blocks, the herbs and pepper, and simmer steadily for three or four hours. Strain through a fine sieve, and when cold remove the fat. Melt the butter and brown the flour, then add the stock by degrees; boil well, and serve with small pieces of giblet in the soup. 2i8 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Rabbit One rabbit Two quarts water. One onion, one stick celery. A blade of mace. Twelve peppercorns. Salt. Thickening. One and a half ounces butter. One and a half ounces flour. Soup. One gill of milk. Half a gill of cream. One yolk of egg. Garnish. Egg-balls. Two hard-boiled yolks of egg. Pepper and salt. Raw yolk to bind. Wash, dry, and joint the rabbit; put it into a saucepan, with the water and salt; bring slowly to the boil, and skim. Add the vegetables, peppercorns, and mace. Simmer for two or three hours. Strain. Melt the butter, add the flour, and fry for a second; add stock gradually, and cook for five minutes. Beat up the yolk of egg, add it to the milk .j and cream, strain into the soup. Stir over a gentle heat until ^ the egg is cooked. Egg-Balls.—Break the hard-boiled yolks smooth, season, and bind with a little raw yolk. Form into little balls, drop \ into the soup, and cook gently for a few seconds. j;l I Scotch Broth. One pound runner of beef (or neck of mutton). One turnip cut in dice. One carrot cut in dice. One carrot grated. Two leeks ri sliced. » One ounce barley. Pepper and salt. Cold water.* Wipe the meat, put it into a pan with sufficient cold water « to cover it, add the salt, and bring it to the boil; skim it; jr add the pepper, the vegetables, and the barley (blanched). Simmer slowly for three or four hours. Half an hour before )fSOUPS. 19 lishing add the grated carrot. When ready lift the meat out md place it on a hot ashet, and pour a little of the liquor Dver it. Dish the broth in a hot tureen or bowl. Hotch-Potch* Two pounds neck of lamb. Dne pint chopped young car- rots, turnips, and cauli- flower. Lalf a lettuce. Three-quarters of a pint green peas. One half-pint broad beans. A few spring onions. Two quarts water. One teaspoonful of salt. One half-teaspoonful of pep- per. Two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Put the meat and salt on with cold water. When it comes 0 the boil skim it carefully. Let the cauliflower and lettuce e in salt and water for half an hour. Break the cauliflower p into little sprigs and chop the lettuce; shell the peas and kin the beans; pare the turnips, scrape the carrots, chop hem small with the onions. Put all the vegetables, except ne half-pint of peas, into the boiling liquor; boil slowly for iree or four hours, according to the age of the vegetables. SAning vegetables require less time than old ones.) When ie soup is half made, add the rest of the peas and the sugar, /hen ready, remove the mutton, and serve. Serve the rntton separately. Hotch-potch should be quite thick. If wished, neatly- immed chops may be added to the soup when it is half looked, and served in it. Shin of Beef Soup. ! wo pounds shin of beef, ne ounce dripping, iece of carrot and turnip, epper and salt. One onion. Stick of celery. Herbs. Two quarts cold water.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 20 Wipe the meat, and cut it in small pieces. Remove the marrow (which can be used instead of dripping). Melt the dripping, and fry the meat and bone in it. Add the wateri and salt, bring slowly to the boil, and skim; then add thei vegetables, herbs, etc., and simmer from four to five hours. Strain off. When cold, free from fat. I Note. — For finishing and thickening, see Bone Soup,i page 16. One quart fish stock. One and a half ounces butter. One and a half ounces flour. Fish Soup. One half-pint milk. One tablespoonful chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter, add the flour, and fry for two or three seconds. Add the stock gradually, and boil well. Add the milk, parsley, seasonings. Boil up and serve. Note.—If a richer soup is desired, one yolk of egg mixed r with two tablespoonfuls of cream may be strained into the - soup at the last. Lentil Soup. One half-pound lentils (Egyp- tian). Half a carrot Half a turnip. One stick celery. One onion. One ounce dripping. Two quarts water. Pepper and salt. One half-pint milk. 1 "s in 'F Wash the lentils, and soak them overnight in the quart ol water. Prepare the other vegetables, and cut them in slices; T' strain the water from the lentils, reserving it. Melt the dripping in a saucepan; add the lentils and other vegetables, fji and sweat them. Pour on the water in which the lentils ^ were soaked, add the salt and pepper, and bring to the boil. Simmer the soup till the vegetables are cooked, stirring aSOUPS. 21 requently whilst cooking. This will take three or four ours. When cooked, pass the soup through a colander, r bruise with fork. Add the milk, and reheat; then serve nth fried or toasted bread. Note.—Instead of water, meat or ham boilings can be sed; and instead of celery, one half-teaspoonful of celery eed. Pea Soup. Prepared in the same way as lentil soup. Haricot Bean Soup. Prepared in the same way as lentil or pea soup, but only diite vegetables, such as onion or celery, should be used. Red Pottage Soup. )ne half-pound haricot beans. rour fresh or tinned tomatoes. )ne beetroot, mall piece of celery. Soak the beans overnight. One onion. Pepper and salt. One ounce dripping. Three pints water or stock. Wash, peel, and slice the egetables. Melt the dripping, and sweat the vegetables nd beans in it. Add the liquid and seasonings, and boil ently from, three to four hours. Remove the beetroot, and hen pass the rest through a sieve. Reheat and serve. Tomato Soup. Two pounds fresh or tinned i tomatoes. )ne ounce butter. )ne ounce bacon. One carrot, one onion, a stick of celery. One quart tomato liquor and stock mixed. j Thickening.—To every quart of soup when served allow pne ounce tapioca groult.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 22 Cut the bacon and vegetables into slices, and fry them in the melted butter. Add the stock and salt, bring to the boil, and simmer from one and a half to two hours. Rub through a hair sieve, return to rinsed pan, sprinkle in the groult, and cook until the grain is clear (about seven or ten minutes). Two pounds of potatoes. Two or three sticks of celery. One onion. Potato Soup. Two ounces butter. One quart meat boilings. Half-pint milk. Pepper and salt. Wash and slice the vegetables, and sweat them in the butter. Add the meat boilings, pepper and salt, bring to the boil, and simmer one and a half hours. Rub through a hair sieve. Return to rinsed saucepan. Add the milk, boil, and serve with dice of fried bread. Note.—With vegetable purees, dice of fried bread should be served. Puree of Carrot and Turnip. Preparation and method as for potato soup. Green Pea Soup. One pound green peas. Pepper and salt. Sprigs of mint and parsley. One pint boiling light stock. Put the peas, mint, parsley, and pepper and salt into the boiling stock, and cook till tender (about half an hour). ; Remove the mint and parsley, and rub the soup through a hair sieve. Return to rinsed pan and reheat. Note.—A handful of washed peapods may be put into the stock with the peas. If too thick, add a little milk after sieving.23 SOUPS. Vegetable Marrow Soup. One pound vegetable marrow. One onion. Two sticks of celery. One ounce butter. One pint stock or meat boil- ings. One gill milk. Half-ounce cornflour. Pepper and salt. Peel the marrow, remove the seeds, and cut it in small pieces. Wash and scrape the celery, and cut it in pieces. Skin and scald the onion, and cut it in rings. Melt the butter in a pan, and toss the vegetables in it for five minutes. Add the stock and the salt, boil up, and skim if necessary. Simmer slowly from one to one and a half hours till the marrow is soft, then rub the soup through a hair sieve. Put the soup back into the rinsed pan, and add the cornflour broken down in the milk. Stir till it boils and thickens (about five minutes). Season and serve. Celery Soup. One pound celery. One onion. One ounce butter. Half-ounce cornflour. One pint stock or meat boil- ings. One gill milk. Pepper and salt. Wash and scrape the celery, and cut in pieces. Skin and scald the onion, and cut in slices. Melt the butter in a pan, and toss the vegetables in it for five minutes. Add the liquid and salt, and boil up. Skim if necessary. Simmer slowly till the celery is soft (about one and a half hours), then rub it through a hair sieve. Break the cornflour in the milk, and put it with the soup into a rinsed pan to boil. Stir and boil for five minutes. Season well and serve.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 24 Onion Soup. Four Spanish onions. Two ounces butter. One quart water. Pepper and salt. One gill milk. Half-ounce rice flour. Scald, dry, and slice the onions. Sweat them in the melted butter; add the water, pepper and salt, and cook till tender (about two hours). Rub the soup through a hair sieve, return it to rinsed pan, and add the rice flour broken smooth with the milk. Stir till the soup boils, and cook for five minutes. Soup Maigre. One small carrot, turnip, and leek. One onion. One stick of celery. Small cauliflower. Two or three leaves of cab- bage. One ounce butter. One pint boiling water. Pepper and salt. Prepare the root vegetables carefully, and wash the green vegetables thoroughly. Break the cauliflower into small pieces, and cut all the other vegetables in fine shreds. Melt the butter, and toss all together in it for five minutes. Add the boiling water, and boil steadily without a lid for about half an hour till the vegetables are tender. Season and serve. Rice Soup. One quart chicken boilings. Two ounces rice. One tablespoonful chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Remove all fat from the stock, put it into a deep pan, and bring to the boil. Skim well. Wash the rice, and add it to25. SOUPS. One ounce butter. Two ounces cooked macaroni. the stock. Simmer the soup till the rice is cooked (about half an hour), then add the chopped parsley. Boil for a minute or two to remove the raw taste from the parsley. Season and serve. Melt the butter, add the flour, and fry for a second or two, but do not brown it. Add the stock gradually. When boiling, cook for five minutes. Have the macaroni boiled, rinsed, and cut into small pieces. Add it to the soup. Serve with a little grated cheese. Macaroni Soup, One quart white stock. One ounce flour.FISH ■■ ■ »■ To boil Fish* Clean the fish thoroughly, removing scales, fins, tail, and eyes, handling it as little and as quickly as possible. Have sufficient water in a fish kettle to cover the fish ; add salt and vinegar to it in the proportion of one teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of vinegar to one quart of water. When this is boiling put in the fish, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and cook the fish very gently without boiling. For a large fish, or a large cut of fish, allow ten minutes to each pound and ten minutes over. Cook a small fish till the flesh is firm and will leave the bone quite clean. Drain the fish on a draining-tray, or on a fish slice, dish on a folded napkin, and decorate with half-slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Serve with a sauce. Stuffed and Baked Cod. One pound slice of cod. Stuffing. Two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. One tablespoonful of chopped suet. Half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pinch of powdered herbs. A little grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. Beaten egg to bind.27 FISH. Coating. Beaten egg and browned Two tablespoonfuls of drip- bread crumbs. ping. Prepare the stuffing by mixing the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, and seasonings together, and binding with beaten egg. Wipe the cod with a wTet cloth and remove the bone, keeping the cut in a good shape. Roll the stuffing into a ball and place in the centre of the fish, pressing it into place and keeping it piled up in the centre. Tie into shape with a string. Dust over with a little flour, brush with beaten egg, and coat well with browned crumbs. Place in a Yorkshire pudding tin and baste with the dripping melted in the tin. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, basting from time to time. Drain on a fish slice, remove the string, and dish in a deep ashet. Serve with anchovy sauce round. (See page 65.) Stuffed Plaice, The same ingredients as for stuffed cod. To prepart the Plaice.—After cleaning, cut a slit from head to tail on the white side, and form pockets on either side by partially filleting the fish from the bone. Place the stuffing in the opening thus made, and bake in the same way as baked cod. Fried Fish, One filleted haddock. Half a teaspoonful flour. Pinch of pepper and salt Beaten egg. Bundle of dried bread crumbs. Pan of deep fat. Sprigs of parsley to garnish. Wipe the fillets and cut each in three, cutting on the slant. Dip these in the seasoned flour, then brush with beaten egg, and coat with dried crumbs. Press the crumbs firmly onPLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 28 with a broad-pointed knife. Heat a pan of deep fat till a faint haze or smoke rises from it, then drop in the pieces of fish, having four or five pieces in the pan at one time. Fry till a golden brown colour, lift out with a draining-spoon, and drain on kitchen paper. Dish on an ashet with paper under- neath, and garnish with fried parsley. To fry Parsley.—Wash the parsley, pick each sprig from the stalk, and dry carefully. Put the parsley in a frying basket, and cool the fat till there is no smoke rising from it. Put the basket gently into the pan, and fry till the hissing noise stops. Drain well. Fried Fish in Batter* One filleted fish. Batter. Two ounces flour. Half a gill tepid water. One white of egg. Salt and pepper. One tablespoonful salad oil. Put the flour, pepper, and salt into a bowl, and add the oil and water gradually. Beat well, then fold in the stiffly-beaten white of egg. Cut the fillets in neat pieces, coat them with the batter, and fry in deep fat till of a golden brown colour. Drain thoroughly, then dish and garnish with fried parsley. Note.—This batter may be used for kromeskies, and with the pepper left out for fruit fritters, etc. Steamed Fillets of Haddock or Sole* One filleted fish. Half a teaspoonful of lemon Pinches of pepper and salt juice. Wipe the fillets, sprinkle with a little pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and fold in two, smooth side in. Place on a greased plate, and cover all with a round of greased paper.Place the plate over a pan containing boiling water, and put the lid over the plate. Cook in this way for about twenty minutes, till the fish is firm and white. Dish neatly on a small ashet, and pour the liquid over. Note.—If not for an invalid, the fillets may be dished with a good fish sauce poured over. Fried Herrings, Two herrings. | One ounce oatmeal. One ounce dripping. Cleanse and dry the herrings, cut off their fins, toss the herrings in the oatmeal in a sheet of kitchen paper till as much as possible has stuck to them. Heat the dripping in a frying-pan; fry the herrings for about five minutes. Note.—If desired, the herrings may be boned (see Baked Herring, page 30) and fried. Grilled Herring or Mackerel, One herring or mackerel. Half an ounce dripping or butter. Four sprigs of parsley. One pinch of salt. One pinch of pepper. Open the fish by cutting it down the front. Wash it well in cold water, and dry it with a cloth. Rub a hot gridiron with a greased paper, and lay the fish on it over a clear fire; when brown on one side turn over on the other. Wash the parsley in cold water, pick it off the stalks, dry it with a cloth, chop finely; mix with the butter on a plate, using a knife; add to it the salt and pepper. Put the fish on a hot plate, and spread the butter on the fish. Any other fish may be cooked in the same way with or without the parsley and butter.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 30 Baked Herring. Two fresh herrings. Say one gill water. Say one gill vinegar. Six peppercorns. One blade of mace. Quarter teaspoonful salt. Cleanse and dry the herrings; cut off the heads, tails, and fins. Cut from the opening already made for cleaning down to the tail end; lay them on their backs, remove the bones; sprinkle the salt over them; roll them up, beginning at the tail end. Place them in a small pie-dish, with the pepper- corns and mace; pour over them enough vinegar and water to cover them ; bake in the oven for three-quarters of an hour. To Coat. Beaten egg, bread crumbs, and deep fat. Remove all skin and bones from the fish, and break it with two forks into small pieces. Mash the potatoes and mix with the fish; season well. Melt the butter in a small pan; add the fish and potatoes. Mix well together, and add sufficient egg to bind together. If any cold fish sauce can be had, it may be used in place of egg. Turn the mixture on to a slightly floured board and form into small cakes. Coat with egg and bread crumbs, place in a frying basket, and fry in deep fat till of a golden brown colour. Drain carefully, and dish on an ashet with a dish paper. Garnish with fried parsley. (See Fried Fish, page 27.) Fish Cakes. Half a pound cold fish. One ounce butter. Quarter a pound cold potatoes. Beaten egg to bind. Pepper and salt.Fish Pudding* Half a pound cooked or un-1 One egg. cooked fish. I Half-gill fish stock or milk. One ounce bread crumbs. One teaspoonful of finely- Two ounces suet. I chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Remove the skin and scrape the flesh from the bones of the fish, put into a basin, and add the bread crumbs, finely- chopped suet, and parsley. Add the beaten egg and the fish stock or milk; season. Turn into a greased pudding bowl; cover with greased paper; steam for about twenty minutes. Serve coated with egg or fish sauce. GSteau of Fish* Half-pound cooked fish. Two ounces bread crumbs. One teaspoonful chopped parsley. Half-gill milk or fish stock. Two yolks and one white of eggs. Small piece of dripping and a few brown crumbs for the tin. Pepper and salt. Melt the dripping in a plain tin; when hot, run the drip- ping round the sides of the tin until well greased. Shake in a few brown crumbs and coat the tin. Remove all skin and bone from the fish; chop finely. Put fish, bread crumbs, parsley, beaten eggs, and fish stock in a pan and cook for a few seconds. Season ; turn mixture into the prepared tin; cover with greased paper; bake in moderately-hot oven from thirty to forty minutes. Turn out, and pour round either anchovy or melted butter sauce.32 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Kedgeree. Half-pound cooked finnan haddock. Quarter-pound cooked rice. Two ounces butter. One hard-boiled egg. Cayenne pepper, nutmeg, salt. Wash, boil, and dry the rice. Remove all skin and bones from the fish, and chop roughly. Separate the white from the yolk of the egg; chop the white roughly; rub the yolk through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan; add the rice, fish, and white of egg. When thoroughly heated, season with cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Pile on a hot dish, and decorate with the sieved yolk. Note.—One teaspoonful of curry powder may be added to the fish, rice, etc. Half-pound filleted haddock, plaice, or lemon sole. Half apple or small piece of rhubarb. Half onion. Curry of Fish. Half-ounce butter. Half-ounce curry powder. Quarter-ounce flour. Half-pint fish stock or water. Salt. A little lemon juice. Chop the onion and fruit finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan; fry the onion lightly, but do not brown; add the fruit, curry powder, and flour, and fry for a few seconds. Stir in the stock or water gradually, add pinch of salt and few drops of lemon juice, bring to the boil and skim. Simmer half an hour, strain, return to the rinsed saucepan. Put the fish, cut into nice pieces, into the sauce, and cook gently about ten minutes. Serve with three ounces of well- boiled rice.33 FISH. Scalloped Fish. 'old cooked fish of any kind. £gg, fish, or melted butter sauce to moisten. Some white bread crumbs. Pepper, salt, and a little butter. Butter some scallop shells, and sprinkle with white bread rumbs. Remove skin and bones from the fish, and divide into akes. Moisten well with sauce; season, and place on the repared shells. Cover with bread crumbs. Put a small pat f butter on the top of each shell. Bake in a hot oven bout fifteen minutes. Garnish with parsley and serve. )ne dozen oysters. )ne gill oyster liquor and milk mixed together, lalf-ounce butter. Stewed Oysters. Half-ounce flour. Pinch of mace. Lemon juice. One tablespoonful of cream. Salt. Blanch the oysters in their own liquor; strain them, and jmove the beards. Mix the liquor and milk together, melt le butter in a saucepan, add the flour, cook a few seconds, .dd liquor by degrees; bring to the boil. Add the season- lgs; cook five minutes. Put the oysters in the sauce to get ot; add the cream. Serve with croutons of bread round. Potted Shrimps. [alf-pint shrimps. I Pinch of powdered mace. ’wo ounces fresh butter. | Pinch of nutmeg. Salt and white pepper. Pick the shrimps, and put them with the other ingredients ito a stewpan. Let them heat gradually in the butter, but (1,293) ,34 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. do not let them boil. Turn into small jars; cover with clarified butter to exclude the air. Note. —Shrimps, after being cooked in the butter, may be pounded, rubbed through a sieve, and then potted. Other varieties of cold fish may be potted. To half-pound cold fish— Three to four ounces butter Pepper, salt, and pinch of clarified. nutmeg. Fish Pie* Half-pound cold fish. One gill cold fish sauce. One pound cooked potatoes. Pepper and salt. Half-ounce butter. Little milk. Carefully remove all skin and bone from the fish. Put it into a pie-dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and mix with the sauce. Sieve the cooked potatoes; melt the butter in a pan. Add potatoes, seasonings, and sufficient milk to make a soft creamy consistency. Beat well, and pile on the top of the fish. Smooth with a knife and mark neatly. Brush over with egg or milk, and put in a moderate oven till nicely browned.MEAT. Roast Beef or Mutton, Beef or mutton for roasting should be well-hung from four to six days in summer, and from two to three weeks in dry, cold weather. Wipe, trim, and weigh the meat, and place it best side down in the roasting-tin. Place two or three tablespoonfuls of dripping on the meat, and in the under division of the tin put cold water to keep the heat of the oven moist. Put the meat into a hot oven at first; after it begins to brown the heat may be reduced and the cooking continued at a slower rate. Baste every fifteen to twenty minutes; and after the meat is half-cooked turn it, with the best side up. The time for cooking depends on the weight of the meat, twenty minutes for each pound and twenty minutes over being usually allowed. For a small roast of two or three pounds longer time in proportion is given. A roast of this size takes from one and a half to two hours. Dish on a suitable ashet, and serve with the usual accompaniments : with roast beef—gravy, Yorkshire pudding, horse-radish sauce; with roast mutton—gravy, baked potatoes, red-currant jelly. To make Gravy.—After dishing the roast, pour all the jclear dripping from the tin, keeping back all the brown sediment. To this add pinches of salt and pepper, and half a pint of good brown stock or water. Stir it over the fire till boiling, then strain it into a gravy dish or round the roast.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 36 Note.—Time for different meats: (1.) Beef or mutton— twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. (2.) Veal and pork—twenty-five minutes to the pound and twenty-five minutes over. (3.) Lamb—twenty to twenty-five minutes to the pound, according to the thickness of the joint. Veal: Rolled and Stuffed. Two pounds breast of veal. Two tablespoonfuls dripping Rolls of bacon. for basting. Stuffing. Three ounces bread crumbs. One and a half ounces suet. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pinch of powdered herbs. Little grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. A beaten egg to bind. Prepare the stuffing by mixing the dry ingredients and binding with the egg. Bone and trim the veal; spread with the stuffing; roll up; sew firmly all round. Place on a roasting-tin with the dripping, and follow the ordinary rules for roasting. When cooked, remove the thread; place the veal on a hot dish; pour off the fat from the roasting-tin, keeping back any brown sediment. Add about one tea- spoonful of flour; mix well, and brown it over the fire; add the half-pint of stock or water and a pinch of pepper and salt; boil up and skim, then strain round the veal. Garnish with bacon rolls, and serve. Rolls of Bacon.—Cut three or four slices of bacon thinly, remove the rust and the rind, cut each slice in half. Roll up the pieces neatly, place on a skewer, and bake in a moderate oven from five to seven minutes. sc tti tli a; pa P£ Oi St tb ej it, ii a k k ba re it G Roast Pork. Loin of pork is the most suitable part for roasting. It must be weighed, trimmed, jointed, and the rind must beMEAT. 37 scored by being cut through in narrow lines from the top to |the bottom of the roast. Cook according to rules. Make the gravy as for roast beef, and strain round. Serve with Epple sauce. The joint may be stuffed, if liked. Stuffing.—To half a teacupful of bread crumbs allow two arboiled chopped onions, one teaspoonful of powdered sage, pepper and salt. Mix all together. Roast Rabbit. One rabbit. I Two tablespoonfuls of drip- Stuffing (see Roast Veal). I ping for basting. Soak the rabbit in cold water with a little salt for about three-quarters of an hour. Make the stuffing. Remove the eyes, liver, kidneys, lungs, and heart from the rabbit. Wash it, and cleanse thoroughly. Fill up the inside of the rabbit with the stuffing and sew it up, truss into shape, place it on a roasting-tin, and cover it with a piece of greased paper to keep the rabbit moist while cooking. Bake about one hour, basting frequently. When nearly done remove the paper, baste the rabbit well, and let it brown nicely. When cooked remove the trussing string, place on a hot dish, pour round it the gravy (see Roast Beef) or half a pint of brown sauce. Garnish with bacon rolls and serve. Roast Hare. Prepare and cook in the same way as rabbit. Serve with forcemeat balls and red-currant jelly. For cooking of balls, see Beef Olives. Roast Chicken. To draw a Fowl or Chicken.—Pluck the feathers, then singe the fowl to remove the small hairy feathers. Lay the fowl on38 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. its breast, make an incision along the back of the neck from the body to the head, cut off the head, separate the skin from the neck and fold the skin back over the breast, then cut off the neck close to the body. Draw out the crop carefully and then the windpipe. Wipe the piece of skin to remove the blood. With a sharp knife enlarge the opening at the other end of the bird, about an inch upwards, from the middle. Draw out all the inside of the bird, taking care not to break the gall bladder, which is attached to the liver. Wipe the opening with a damp cloth. Preserve the neck and the giblets for soup or gravy. To truss a Fowl for Roasting.—Cut off the toes at the first joint. Draw the sinews. Put the legs in a basin of boiling water for a few minutes; the skin can then be easily peeled off. Place the fowl on its breast; fold the skin over the opening at the neck on to the back; turn in the wing, with the end outside, in the shape of a triangle: the points will then keep the loose skin in its place. Push back the legs close to the sides of the bird. Have a trussing-needle and long piece of string; pass the needle through the joint of the wing, then through the second joint of the leg, then through the body and other leg and wing. Draw the string through. Turn the bird breast-side down and cross the string over the back, then bring down and tie the legs with the tail or “ parson’s nose ” firmly together. Tie a greased paper over the legs to prevent charring, and roast. (See Roast Beef.) Remove the gall bladder from the liver carefully. Remove the fat from the gizzard; cut it open, and remove the inside and coarse skin. Wash liver, gizzard, neck, and feet, which may be put on to make stock for gravy. If the fowl is lean, put a small piece of butter or dripping inside. If liked, fowl may be stuffed. (See Roast Veal.) Serve with bread sauce (see Sauces), gravy, and rolls of bacon.MEAT. 39 Boiled Mutton* Three or four pounds of Boiling water to cover, mutton. One teaspoonful salt. One carrot, turnip, onion. Wipe, trim, weigh, and if necessary joint the meat. Plunge it into boiling salted water, boil for five minutes, skim thor- oughly, then only allow the meat to simmer. Allow twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in neat pieces, and add them to the meat. If old, they will take about from one to one and a half hours to cook; if young, they may be added about thirty to forty minutes before the mutton is done. When the meat is cooked, lift it on to a hot dish. Pour over either parsley or caper sauce, and garnish with the pieces of vegetable. Boiled Salt Beef. Three or four pounds of salt beef. Sufficient tepid water to cover. Carrot, turnip, onion. Dumplings. (See Suet Pastry, page 83.) Boiled greens. (See Boiled Cabbage, etc., page 75.) Wash the meat thoroughly in cold water to draw out the salt. Put it into a pan, cover with tepid water, or if the meat has been long in pickle with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, skim, and then allow to simmer. Allow thirty minutes per pound and thirty minutes over. While cooking put in the prepared vegetables, allowing for old vegetables about one to one and a half hours; for spring vegetables, about forty minutes. About half an hour before the meat is cooked add the dumplings. Serve the beef on a hot ashet. Pour over some of the beef liquor. Garnish with the pieces of carrot and turnip, boiled greens, and the dumplings. Send a sauceboat of the liquor in which the meat was boiled to table.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 40 Boiled Salt Pork and Pease Pudding* Three or four pounds of leg or spring of pork. Wash the joint, put into a pan, and cover with tepid water. Bring to the boil, skim, then simmer. Allow twenty- five minutes per pound and twenty-five minutes over. Place the joint on a hot dish, and pour over it a little of the liquor in which it was boiled, and serve with pease pud- ding and parsnips. Pease Pudding. oia or jam th( Half a pint of split pease. One small egg. Half an ounce of butter. jj hei Salt, pepper, and sugar. bo Soak the pease all night in water. Next day tie them loosely (to allow for swelling) in a pudding-cloth; put them into a pan of boiling water; boil for three or four hours till the pease are quite soft. Drain very well, and pass them through a wire sieve. Beat in the egg, pepper, salt, and sugar. Return all to the cloth, tie up tightly, and boil for twenty minutes. Turn out on a dish, or serve round the pork. lift | an ch Oi Boiled Rabbit* rel Soak the rabbit in cold water with a little salt for about three-quarters of an hour. Then wash thoroughly. Remove the eyes, liver, kidneys, heart, and lungs. Divide the rabbit H into nice joints, split the head, and soak until free from blood. Put all into a saucepan, cover with cold water, add 0 a little salt, and boil. This whitens the rabbit. Pour away* the water, rinse the rabbit, and just cover it with boiling jit water; add a pinch of salt, bring to the boil, and skim. Then j & simmer from one to one and a half hours. Place the joints § on a hot dish. Do not serve the head or the flaps; these j fMEAT. 4i nay be put into the stockpot. Cover the rabbit with onion Dr parsley sauce. Garnish with rolls of bacon, and serve. Note.—The onions for the sauce should be cooked in the Dan with the rabbit. If preferred, the rabbit may be trussed whole and boiled, md coated with sauce. Lamb’s Head. To prepare the Head.—Split the head in two; remove the Drains, and soak them in cold water and vinegar to whiten hem. Soak the head in tepid water and salt for half an lour. Scrape the small bones from the nostrils; cleanse the lead thoroughly, blanch and rinse it. Cook the head in Doiling salted water till tender (about one and a half hours) • ift it out, and cut the meat from the bones in neat slices. To prepare the Brains.—Take them from the soaking water, md cook in stock or water for fifteen minutes. Drain and :hop them. To prepare the Sauce:— Dne ounce butter. | One ounce flour. Three gills milk. Make the sauce (see page 65), add the chopped brains md seasonings of salt and pepper. Put in the meat, and •eheat thoroughly. Irish Stew. Half a pound neck of mut- ton. One pound potatoes. Quarter a pound of onions. Pepper and salt. Half a pint of hot water. Wipe and trim the meat, and cut into neat pieces. Put t into a stewpan, and just cover it with hot water. Add x good pinch of salt, bring it to the boil, and skim well. Skin and scald the onions, and cut them into thin rings. Wash and peel the potatoes, and slice down one or two.42 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Add the onions and sliced potatoes to the meat, season with pepper, and simmer from one and a half to two hours. About forty minutes before serving add the rest of the potatoes whole, or, if large, cut in two. When ready, arrange the whole potatoes neatly round a hot ashet, pile the meat in the centre, and pour the gravy over. Note.—(i.) This dish can be made more digestible by par- boiling the potatoes before adding them. (2.) Remains of cooked meat make excellent Irish stew, but should merely be reheated after the onions and potatoes are tender. On On sail ba( tos in Stewed Beef. ren ] the One pound stewing steak. One ounce flour. One ounce dripping. One pint stock. One onion, carrot, (small). turnip Pepper and salt. Wipe the meat; leave it whole, or cut in small pieces. Skin, scald, and dry onion, and cut into rings. Make the dripping smoking hot in a stewpan, and brown the meat quickly on both sides; then lift out on to a plate. Fry the onion for a few seconds, add the flour, and fry them together until of a good brown colour. Add the stock by degrees, season with salt, bring to the boil, and skim well. Return the meat to the pan, and simmer gently from one and a half to two hours. Pile the meat neatly on a hot dish. Season the sauce well, add a few drops of cold water, boil up again, and skim thoroughly (this clarifies the sauce), then strain over the meat. Garnish neatly with boiled strips of carrot and turnip, and serve. To prepare the Garnish.—Cut even-sized strips of carrot and turnip, and cook separately in boiling salted water from ten to fifteen minutes. Drain well, and use as directed above. Note.—The trimmings of the vegetables may be cooked with the meat to flavour the sauce. Tw Stu On On 1 I oni I tiro I aft p I of I tie IPla 1ffat Tni43 MEAT. Stewed Kidney. One ox-kidney, or four sheep- kidneys. One ounce flour. One ounce dripping. One pint stock. Pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the kidney, then wash it well in salt and water. Dry it, and cut it into small pieces, keeping back all the core. Make the dripping hot in a stewpan; toss the kidney in a little of the flour and brown it well in the hot dripping, then lift it on to a plate. Fry the remaining flour slowly to a good brown colour, then add the stock gradually and a pinch of salt. Bring this to the boil, skim well, and season with pepper. Return the kidney to the pan, and simmer about two hours till tender. Arrange a border of mashed potatoes round a hot ashet, dish the kidney in the centre, and pour the sauce over. Stewed Breast of Veal. Two pounds breast of veal. Stuffing as for roast veal. One ounce dripping. One ounce flour. One onion, one carrot, turnip (small). Pepper and salt. One pint stock. one Rolls of bacon. Wipe, bone, and stuff the veal as for roast veal. Cut the onion in rings, make the dripping smoking hot in a stewpan; brown the veal quickly; lift on to a plate; fry the onion for a few seconds, add the flour, and fry these together until of a good brown colour. Add the stock by degrees and a pinch of salt, bring to the boil, and skim. Return the veal to the pan; simmer gently from two to two and a half hours. Place the veal on a hot dish. Add a few drops of cold water to the sauce, boil up briskly, and skim thoroughly. This is to remove any fat. Season the sauce well, and44 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. strain it over the veal. Garnish with strips of carrot and turnip cooked for about fifteen minutes in separate pans of boiling salted water, and with rolls of bacon. Haricot Mutton. One pound lean mutton or back ribs of mutton. One ounce of dripping. One ounce of flour. Small onion, carrot, turnip. Half a gill haricot beans. Pepper and salt. One pint of stock. Wipe and cut the mutton in pieces, not too small. If cutlet mutton is used, remove the chine bone, and divide it into cutlets. (For the method of cooking and dishing, see Stewed Beef, p. 42.) Note.—Soak the haricot beans all night, then put them on in a stewpan with plenty of cold water and a pinch of salt, bring to the boil, and cook for about two hours. Drain well, and use with the other vegetables. One pound of veal fillet. One ounce of dripping. One ounce of flour. Ragout of Veal. Pepper and salt. One pint of stock. Rolls of bacon. Small carrot, turnip, and onion. Wipe the veal; cut in neat pieces. Make the dripping smoking hot in a stewpan, and quickly brown the meat on both sides. Lift on to a plate. Cut up the onion in rings, and fry for a few seconds. Add the rest of the flour, and brown well. Add the stock by degrees, season with salt, bring to the boil, and skim. Return the meat to the pan, add the trimmings of carrot and turnip, and simmer from one to one and a half hours. Pile the meat neatly on a hot ashet. Boil up the sauce, and skim thoroughly. Season45 MEAT. well, and strain over the meat. Garnish with rolls of bacon, and with strips of carrot and turnip cooked separately in boiling salted water, and serve. Note.—For Ragout of Rabbit.—Wash, cleanse, and joint rabbit, then cook as for ragout of veal. Mince Collops. Half a pound minced steak. One small onion. Half an ounce dripping. Half a pound stewing steak (thinly cut) or veal fillet. One onion. One teaspoonful of flour. One gill of stock. Pepper and salt. Sippets of toast or fried bread. Prepare and chop the onion finely. Make the dripping hot in a stewpan, and fry the onion in it for a few seconds. Put in the mince and brown it carefully, beating it well ith a wooden spoon or a fork to keep it free from lumps, prinkle in the flour, and mix it well with the meat. Add he hot stock and a pinch of salt, bring it to the boil, and ;eason with pepper. Simmer about one hour, stirring it requently. [of toast. Serve it on a hot ashet, garnished with sippets Beef or Veal Olives* Half an ounce flour. Half an ounce dripping. Half a pint stock. Stuffing. bread Two tablespoonfuls crumbs. One tablespoonful chopped suet. chopped One teaspoonful parsley. Pepper and salt. Beaten egg or milk. Pinch of powdered herbs. Stuffing.—Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, pepper and salt in a basin, and add enough beaten egg or milk to46 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. bind them together. Wipe the meat, and cut it into pieces d about two by two and a half inches. Place a little of the H stuffing in each piece, roll up neatly, and tie into shape with a piece of thread. Make the dripping smoking hot in a & stewpan and brown the olives in it; then lift them on to a plate. Fry the onion for a few seconds, add the flour, and fry these together till well browned. Add the stock by degrees <j and a pinch of salt; bring to the boil, and skim well. Season with pepper, return the olives to the pan, and simmer from one and a half to two hours. Make the remainder of the stuffing into small balls, and cook gently in boiling water from ten to fifteen minutes, then drain them well. When the olives are a tender, remove the thread, and arrange them neatly on a hot a ashet. Pour the sauce over, and pile the forcemeat balls on a either side. f< Note.—For veal olives, add the grated rind of a lemon to r the stuffing. P |c Stewed Ox-taiL 1 Blade of mace. Pieces of carrot and turnip. b One pint of second stock. L Pepper and salt. For Thickening. One ounce butter. One dessertspoonful of b One ounce flour. ketchup. { Wipe and joint the tail, removing any superfluous fat; then blanch the tail to cleanse it. Put the pieces of tail into a stewpan with the stock, and salt; bring to the boil, and skim. Then add the vegetables and seasonings, and simmer from two and a half to three hours. Lift out on to a dish, i, $ To thicken the sauce—melt the butter, add the flour, and t brown them carefully; then add the stock from the tail by t One ox-tail. One onion. Bunch of herbs. Twelve peppercorns.MEAT. 47 degrees. When boiling skim well. Add the ketchup and :he pieces of the tail; reheat, and serve. Note.—If liked, strips of carrot and turnip can be served :o garnish this dish. Grilled Steafc. Three-quarters of a pound of Half an ounce maitre d’hotel rump steak. butter. Potato chips. Wipe the steak with a damp cloth and trim it. Beat with i cutlet bat or with an iron spoon. Have a clear red fire, and make the grill hot. Rub the bars of the grill well with a little suet, place the steak on the grill, and after three or four minutes turn it. Cook altogether from ten to fifteen minutes, according to the thickness of the meat, and turn frequently while it is cooking. Lift the steak with the tongs on to a hot dish, garnish with small rounds of maitre d’hotel butter, and serve potato chips round. Mattre d’Hotel Butter. Half an ounce butter. One dessertspoonful chopped parsley. A few grains of cayenne pep- per. Few drops lemon juice. Mix all these ingredients together on a plate. Spread the butter into a neat pat, put in a cool place until nice and firm, then cut out rounds and use as directed, To Grill a Chop* Choose a leg or loin chop, trim well, remove the skin, and scrape the loin bone clean. Grill as for steak, allowing from ten to fifteen minutes. Serve with maitre d’hotel butter and chips.43 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Curried Veal. One pound veal fillet. Small onion. Small apple. One ounce butter. Half an ounce curry powder. Half an ounce rice flour. Quarter of a teaspoonful curry paste. About half a pint of light- coloured stock. Salt. Few drops lemon juice. Cut the veal in small pieces, and remove any skin. Chop the apple and onion finely. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, and fry the meat lightly. Lift out on to a plate. Fry the onion for a few seconds; add the apple, flour, curry powder, and mix well together. Add the stock gradually, and a pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, and skim well; then add the lemon juice and curry paste. Return the meat to the sauce and simmer one and a half hours, skimming and stirring frequently. Serve on a hot dish, and serve with it well-boiled Patna rice. Note.—A very good curry may be made from cold meat. Make the curry sauce as above, and simmer about forty minutes. Free the meat from skin and fat, and cut in neat pieces, and reheat in the sauce. Mutton Cutlets. One and a half pounds back- ribs of mutton. One beaten egg. Two tablespoonfuls clarified fat. Some well-dried bread crumbs. Choose small, well-hung mutton. Remove the chine bone, and saw the rib bones even in length about three inches. Trim the cutlets, leaving a small rim of fat round the eye of the cutlet. Scrape the inside of the cutlet bones free from skin and fat, and leave the end of the bone clear for a cutlet frill. Brush the cutlet over with beaten egg, toss in49 MEAT. the bread crumbs, remove any crumbs from the cutlet bones, and press well into shape. Make the dripping smoking hot in a frying-pan, place the cutlets in the fat, and fry to a golden brown on one side. Turn the cutlet over and fry quickly until brown on that side. Reduce the heat, and allow the cutlets to cook from seven to ten minutes. Drain well on paper, and then arrange the cutlets in a circle on a small border of mashed potatoes, and pour round them some brown or tomato sauce, and serve some seasonable vege- table in the centre. Put a cutlet frill, if desired, on each cutlet, and serve. Potato Border. One quarter-pound cooked, sieved potatoes. One quarter-ounce butter. A little yolk of egg or milk to bind. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter, add the potato and the egg or milk, and make thoroughly hot. Season, and turn on to a lightly- floured board. Quickly form into a roll, and place on a hot dish. Mark the edges with a fork, and keep in a hot place till wanted. Veal Cutlet. One pound veal fillet. Some dried bread crumbs. Bacon rolls. Two tablespoonfuls of clari- fied fat. Thinly-cut slices of lemon. Marinade. One beaten egg. One teaspoonful parsley. chopped Pinches of powdered herbs. Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. One teaspoonful oiled butter. Cut the veal into rounds, remove any skin, and beat it with a spoon or cutlet bat. Beat up the egg, and add the oiled butter, parsley, herbs, and seasonings. Soak the cutlets (1,293) 450 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. in this marinade for about one hour; then toss them in bread crumbs, and press into shape. Make the dripping smoking hot in a frying-pan, and fry the cutlets to a golden brown on one side, then turn and brown quickly on the other side. Reduce the heat, and cook the cutlets about eight to ten minutes in all. Drain thoroughly. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a small border of mashed potatoes. Garnish each cutlet with a thin half-slice of lemon and with a roll of cooked bacon. Serve a seasonable vegetable in the centre, and pour tomato sauce round. Spiced Beef* Five or six pounds flank of beef. One ounce saltpetre. Two pounds salt. One pound brown sugar. Two ounces ground mixed spice. Bone the beef. Mix all the above ingredients together and well rub the beef with the mixture. Repeat daily for about ten days, turning it over each day. When sufficiently spiced, wash and scrape the beef, put it into a saucepan, just cover with cold water or stock, bring to the boil slowly, and skim. Put a few blocks of vegetable in to flavour it, and simmer very gently for about three to four hours. When cooked, take the meat out and press it between two dishes, with a weight on the top. When the beef is cold, trim and brush over with liquid meat glaze. Pickle for Meat One and a half pounds salt. Nine ounces brown sugar. Three-quarters oz. saltpetre. One and a half gallons water. Put the ingredients into a large pan, bring to the boil, and skim well. Boil for five minutes. Strain into an earthen- ware vessel. When cold, put the meat into the pickle.5i MEAT. Dressed Tongue One pickled tongue. Carrot, turnip, onion. Bunch of herbs. Meat glaze. Soak the tongue two or three hours in cold water after it is taken from the pickle; then put it into a large stewpan and cover with cold water, and bring slowly to the boil. Skim, and add the pieces of prepared vegetables, the bunch of herbs, and simmer gently from two and a half to three hours, according to the size of the tongue. When sufficiently cooked, carefully peel off the skin. Put the tongue on a board, stick a skewer into the root to hold it firm, then fasten a small piece of tape across the top of the tongue to keep it a good shape. When cold, trim and brush over with liquid glaze. Put a tongue frill round the root of the tongue, and garnish with some sprigs of parsley. Wash the pig’s head in tepid water. Take out the brains and the eyes and throw them away. Remove any splinters of bone, and clean the head thoroughly. Blanch the head to whiten and cleanse it. Rinse well, and again cover with cold water and bring to the boil, and simmer for about two hours. When the head is sufficiently boiled, remove from the pan and take all the meat from the bones and cut into dice. Put the bones into the liquor in which the head was boiled, add the seasonings and the onion, boil up, and simmer for about an hour. Strain the liquor, add one quart of it to the prepared meat, and season well with pepper Brawn* Half a pig’s head. Twenty peppercorns. One blade of mace. Four cloves. Twelve allspice. Bunch of herbs. One onion.52 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. and salt. Rinse a mould or basin with cold water, and pour in the meat and liquor, and set aside till cold. Turn out. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Liver and Bacon. One half-pound calf’s liver. One quarter-pound bacon. One half-ounce flour. Half-pint stock. One teaspoonful of Harvey’s sauce. Pinches of pepper and salt. Wash the liver in tepid water, dry it, and cut in slices about one-third of an inch in thickness. Cut the bacon in thin slices, remove the rind, place it in a frying-pan and put it on the fire, and when the fat of the bacon is almost clear turn it. Bacon takes about five minutes to cook. Lift the bacon on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Season the flour with pepper and salt, and dip the pieces of liver in this. Fry the liver quickly in the hot bacon fat When brown on one side, turn and brown on the other side. Cook the pieces of liver about seven minutes. Cut a slice to see if sufficiently cooked; it should not look in the least red inside. Lift the liver on to the dish, and put the bacon neatly on the top of it. Mix the rest of the flour with the fat in the frying-pan; cook until a good brown colour. Add the stock gradually, bring to the boil, and skim. Cook a few minutes; add more seasoning if necessary. Put in the Harvey’s sauce, and pour the sauce round the liver. Raised Pie. One half-pound veal trim- mings. Two ounces bacon. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pinches of pepper and salt. Pinch of powdered herbs. One! Two Salt | cu - seaso i I M Mix Cut topi i pastr : the I form ] Roll ; W 1 Dec< 1! a ho ]| good M One Twc . I | fillei I roui Mai | P( ! bro' coo53 MEAT. Pastry. One half-pound flour. Two ounces lard. Salt. About one gill of milk or water. Beaten egg to glaze the pastry. Cut the veal and bacon in small square pieces, mix with seasonings, then make the pastry. Sieve the flour and salt; boil the lard and milk or water, then pour it into the flour. Mix with a knife or hand, then knead the pastry smooth. Cut off one-third of the pastry, and keep it warm for the top of the pie. Roll out the remaining two-thirds of the pastry into a strip about one-quarter inch in thickness. Trim the edges and ends of the pastry evenly, and join them, forming the pastry into a cup shape. Fill up with the meat. Roll out remaining pastry into a round; place on top of the pie, pressing the edges together. Make a hole in the middle. Decorate the pie neatly, brush with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven for about one hour. When cooked, fill up with good jellied stock. Mutton or pork can be substituted for veal. Fried Fillets of Beef. One and a quarter pounds fillet of beef. Two ounces butter for frying the fillets. One half-ounce maitre d’hotel butter. One half-pint brown or tomato sauce. Meat glaze. Make the maitre d’hotel butter and the sauce. Cut the fillet in slices about one inch thick, then divide into neat rounds. Remove all skin and fat, and trim the fillets neatly. Make the butter hot in a frying-pan; put in the fillets; fry quickly until brown on one side; turn the fillets over, and brown quickly on the other side; then reduce the heat, and cook about seven minutes in all. Fillets of beef should be54 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. slightly underdone. When sufficiently cooked brush each fillet with a little liquid meat glaze. Dish in a circle on a small border of mashed potatoes (for border, see Mutton Cutlets, page 49). Place a pat of maitre d’hotel butter on each fillet, put some seasonable vegetable in the centre of the dish, and pour either brown or tomato sauce round the fillets. (For maitre d’hotel butter, see Grilled Steak, page 47.) Beefsteak and Kidney Pie* One pound stewing steak. One sheep-kidney. One teaspoonful flour. Half a teaspoonful salt. Quarter teaspoonful pepper. One hard-boiled egg. About half a gill stock or water. Rough puff pastry. Make the rough puff pastry (see page 82). Mix the flour, salt, and pepper on a plate. Wipe the steak with a wet cloth. Wash and skin the kidney, split it open, and remove the core. Cut the steak in thin slices, dip into the seasoned flour; put a piece of kidney on each slice of steak, and a small piece of fat, if liked, and roll up the steak. Half fill a pie-dish with the rolls of steak and kidney; put in the stock, and the hard-boiled egg cut in slices; put the rest of the rolls of steak on the top. Roll out the pastry to about one-third of an inch in thickness, rather larger than the pie-dish to be covered. Cut off a strip round three sides of the pastry. Wet the edges of the dish and place the strip round. Wet the edge again and place the remaining piece of pastry over the pie. Trim off the rough edges of the pastry and decorate. Cut a hole in the middle of the pie to allow the steam to escape whilst baking. Brush the pastry with beaten egg. Roll out the trimmings and cut some leaves; brush them with egg. Place these leaves round the hole in the middle of the pie. Place the pie in a hot oven until the pastry is nicely brown; then reduce the heat, and cook the meat thoroughly. The pie will55 MEAT. take from one and a half to two hours to cook. When cooked, fill up, through the hole in the middle, with a little hot, well-seasoned stock. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Veal and Ham Pie* One pound fillet of veal. Quarter a pound ham or bacon. Half a teaspoonful salt. Quarter a teaspoonful pepper. One hard-boiled egg. One teaspoonful chopped parsley. Pinch of herbs. Grated lemon rind. About half a gill stock. Rough puff pastry. Chop the parsley, and mix all the seasonings together. Cut the bacon in thin slices, remove the rind, then cut into neat pieces. Wipe the veal, remove the skin, and cut into pieces about two inches in length. Dip the veal into the seasonings. Place a layer of veal at the bottom of the pie- dish, then a layer of bacon. When the dish is half full put in the stock and the slices of hard-boiled egg, then fill the dish with the rest of the bacon and veal. Cover with the pastry, and bake. (For directions, see Beefsteak Pie, page 54-) Rabbit Pie* One rabbit. Quarter a pound bacon. Half a teaspoonful salt. Quarter a teaspoonful pepper. One hard-boiled egg. One teaspoonful chopped parsley. Pinches of grated lemon rind and herbs. About half a gill stock. Rough puff pastry. Chop the parsley, and mix all the seasonings together. Wash, joint, and blanch the rabbit, then rinse and dry the joints. Dip the pieces of rabbit into the seasonings. Place a layer of rabbit at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of56 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. bacon cut in neat pieces. Add the hard-boiled egg cut in slices and the stock. Fill up the dish with the rest of the bacon and rabbit, cover with the pastry, and bake. (For directions for covering and baking the pie, see Beefsteak Pie, page 54-) Beefsteak and One pound stewing steak. One sheep-kidney. One teaspoonful flour. Half a teaspoonful salt. Kidney Pudding. Quarter a teaspoonful pepper. About half a gill stock or water. Suet pastry. Wipe the meat with a wet cloth, and cut into thin slices. Wash the kidney and remove the skin; split the kidney and take out the core; then cut into small pieces. Mix the seasonings and flour on a plate, and dip the pieces of steak into the seasoned flour. Place a small piece of kidney and a small piece of fat on each slice of steak, and roll up the steak. Make the pastry; turn on to floured board, and roll out to about one-third of an inch in thickness, keeping the pastry round. Line a greased bowl with the pastry; put in half of the rolls of steak, then the stock, and fill up with the rest of the steak. Trim off the edges of the pastry; knead them up lightly; roll into a round. Wet the edge of the pudding; lay the round of pastry over the top; press the edges together. Cover with a scalded and floured pudding-cloth. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook steadily for two hours. Turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Sausage Rolls. Half a pound Cambridge Rough puff pastry, sausages. One egg. Make the pastry. Blanch the sausages, remove the skin, and cut each sausage in half lengthways. Roll the pastry to57 MEAT. about one-eighth of an inch in thickness. Cut it in pieces about three inches square. Place a piece of sausage on each piece of pastry; wet round the edges, fold the paste over, press the edges together, and flake with the blade of a knife. Place the sausage rolls on a greased baking sheet, brush them with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Pile the sausage rolls neatly on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Galantine of Beef. One pound stewing steak. Half a pound pork. Six ounces white bread crumbs. Two eggs. One gill stock. Pepper and salt. Pinch of allspice. Meat glaze. Wipe the steak and pork, and remove any skin. Cut the meat into small pieces, and pass it twice through the mincing machine. Mix together the minced meat, bread crumbs, beaten egg, and stock, and season thoroughly. Roll the mixture in a cloth, and tie the ends tightly. Cook in a saucepan of boiling water, with a few vegetables to flavour, or in the stockpot for two and a half to three hours. When cooked, remove the cloth, roll up the galantine in a dry cloth, tie the ends tightly. Put the galantine between two plates, with a weight on the top. When cold, remove the cloth, cut off thin slices from each end of the galantine, and brush over the top with a little liquid meat glaze. Garnish it with parsley, and serve. Sea Pie. One pound stewing steak. One small onion. Small carrot and turnip. Pepper and salt. Half an ounce flour. Suet pastry. Wipe the meat, cut into thin slices, and dip in seasoned flour. Clean the vegetables, and cut into slices. Put a58 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. layer of meat into a stewpan, then a layer of vegetables; repeat until all the meat and vegetables are in. Just cover with hot stock or water, bring to the boil, then simmer for about three-quarters of an hour. Make a round of suet pastry; lay this on top of the meat, and cook steadily for one hour. When cooked, lift out the pastry, turn the meat and vegetables on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and place the pastry on the top. COLD MEAT COOKERY. Hash. One pound cooked (mutton or beef). One ounce dripping. One onion. One ounce flour. meat One pint second stock. Bunch of herbs. Sippets of toasted or fried bread. Pepper and salt. One dessertspoonful ketchup. Fry the onion, cut in rings, and the flour in the dripping till of a good brown colour; then add the stock gradually. When boiling add the salt, and skim thoroughly. Add also the herbs, ketchup, and pepper, and simmer the sauce for forty minutes; then strain it into a clean saucepan. Cut the meat into neat, thin slices, removing all fat, gristle, and skin. Add it to the sauce, and reheat it thoroughly about thirty minutes. When ready, place the meat in the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with the fried bread. Note.—In re-dressing meat care must be taken to reheat thoroughly, but not to boil59 MEAT. Mince. Half-pound cooked meat. Pepper and salt. About one gill heated stock. One teaspoonful ketchup or Harvey’s sauce. Fried sippets of bread. Remove skin and fat from the meat, and cut it into dice. Put it into a saucepan with the stock and seasonings, and allow it to reheat very thoroughly. Dish, and garnish with the fried bread. Note.—Mince is greatly improved by serving poached eggs laid on the top. Croquettes. Half-pound cooked meat. Half-ounce dripping. Half-ounce flour. One gill second stock. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful ketchup or Harvey’s sauce. Pepper and salt. To Coat the Croquettes. One beaten egg. Bundle of stale bread crumbs. Free the meat from fat and skin, and chop it finely. Chop the parsley. Make a sauce of the dripping, flour, and stock \ add to it the meat, parsley, and seasonings, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When cold and firm divide into equal-sized portions, and form into round balls. Brush with beaten egg. Toss in the bread crumbs, and fry to a golden brown in smoking-hot fat. Dish, and garnish with fried parsley. (See Fried Fish, page 27.) Cold Meat Cutlets. Proportions and preparation of the mixture the same as for Croquettes, but form the mixture into the shape of cutlets before coating. When fried, serve on a small border of potato, and pour round brown or tomato sauce.6o PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Rissoles. Mixture as for Croquettes. | Trimmings of pastry. Make the meat mixture, then roll out the pastry thinly, and cut into rounds. Place a teaspoonful of meat on each round of pastry. Damp the edges, draw the pastry over the meat, and seal well. Coat with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in smoking-hot fat. Garnish with fried parsley. Croustades. Mixture as for Croquettes. | Bread cases. Make the meat mixture, and keep it hot. Cut from a stale loaf rounds of bread, about two inches in depth and one and a half inches in diameter. Soak the rounds of bread for a few minutes in milk to soften them, then coat the rounds with beaten egg and bread crumbs. Stamp the cases half through with a small cutter, and fry them. Drain well. Remove the small round lids, and scoop out the soft part from the inside of the croustades, and fill up with the mix- ture. Place lids on top. Dish on dish-paper, and serve hot. Half-pound cooked meat. Two ounces bread crumbs. Half a small onion. Half-gill stock or meat gravy. G&teau of Meat. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Two yolks and one white of egg- Pepper and salt. Grease a plain round tin, and cover it well with brown crumbs. Cook the onion until tender, and chop it finely. Also chop the parsley. Remove all skin and gristle from the meat, and chop it finely, or pass through the mincing machine. Put the meat, seasonings, bread crumbs, stock, and beaten eggs into a pan. Mix well, and cook for twoMEAT. 6 or three minutes. Turn the mixture into the prepared tin; cover with a greased paper; bake in a steady oven for about thirty minutes. Turn the gateau on to a hot dish, and pour round brown or tomato sauce. Cold Meat Shape. Quarter-pound cold chicken veal, rabbit, or beef. One hard-boiled egg. One white and shell of egg. One teaspoonful chopped parsley. Three gills of stock. Half an ounce gelatine. Pepper and salt. Put the well-skimmed stock, gelatine, white and shell of egg into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved, then whisk until nearly boiling. Stop whisking and boil up the stock well. Let it settle a few minutes, then strain through muslin, and let it cool. Boil the egg hard, then cut into fancy shapes. Chop the parsley finely. Re- move any skin, fat, or gristle from the meat, and cut it into small dice. Rinse a plain tin with cold water, then cover the bottom of the tin with a little of the cold stock. When this is set, decorate with some pieces of egg and a little parsley. Cover the decoration with some stock, and let it set Mix the meat, seasonings, the rest of the parsley and egg chopped roughly, and put these ingredients into the tin. Fill to the top with the rest of the stock. Put in a cool place until set. Dip the tin through warm water; turn the shape on to a dish. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Note.—If the stock is jellied, the gelatine can be omitted. Shepherd's Pie. Haifa pound cold cooked meat. One small cooked onion. Half an ounce dripping. Quarter-ounce flour. One gill stock or water. One pound cooked potatoes. One tablespoonful milk. Pepper and salt.62 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Make the dripping hot in a small pan, and in it brown the onion (chopped) and the flour. Add the stock by degrees. Season well, and boil three or four minutes. Cut the meat into neat slices; or if scrappy, chop it, keeping back skin and fat. Add the meat to the sauce, mix well, and pour it into a pie-dish. Mash the potatoes, and add the milk, pepper, and salt. Beat this over the fire till hot and smooth. Place it evenly over the meat, and mark it with a fork or knife. Brown the pie in the oven or in front of the fire. The top may be glazed by brushing it over with milk or beaten egg before browning it. Curry of Cold Meat* One pound cooked meat. Small onion. Apple. One ounce butter Half an ounce curry powder. Half an ounce rice flour. Quarter a teaspoonful curry paste. Few drops lemon juice. Half a pint stock. Chop the apple and onion finely. Make the butter hot in a stewpan, fry the onion lightly, add the apple, curry powder, rice flour, and cook for a few minutes. Add the stock by degrees. Season with salt; add the curry paste and lemon juice. Bring to the boil, and skim. Simmer the sauce about thirty minutes. Cut the meat into small square pieces, and remove any fat or skin. When the sauce is well cooked put in the meat, and reheat in the sauce, without boiling, for about half an hour. Put the curry on a hot dish, and on a separate dish serve some well-boiled rice. Note.—A good substitute for stock for curry is cocoanut milk. To prepare this, pour half a pint of boiling water over one tablespoonful of desiccated cocoanut; let it infuse for fifteen minutes. Strain off the liquid, and use instead of stock.MEAT. 63 Potted Meat. Six ounces cooked meat. Four ounces clarified butter. Pinches of salt and pepper. Powdered allspice. Nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves. Put the butter into a saucepan over the fire; cook until a scum rises. Draw the pan from the fire. Skim the butter well, strain through muslin, and keep back any sediment. (The butter is clarified to remove the salt.) Remove all fat, skin, and gristle from the meat, and pass it twice through the mincing machine. Then pound the meat, seasoning, and two-thirds of the butter in a mortar. Place the meat into jars; make it smooth on the top. Run the rest of the clarified butter over the meat: this excludes the air. It will keep for some time. Note.—If liked, the meat can be rubbed through a wire sieve after it is pounded. Cold Meat Patties. One quarter - pound cooked meat. One quarter-ounce dripping. One quarter-ounce flour. Pepper and salt. Half a teaspoonful Harvey’s sauce. Rough puff pastry. One half-gill stock. Make the pastry. (See Rough Puff Pastry, page 82.) Remove all skin, fat, and gristle from the meat, and chop finely. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the flour, and cook until a good brown colour. Add the stock by degrees; season with salt. Bring to the boil, skim, and cook for a few minutes. Add the Harvey’s sauce and the prepared meat. Turn on to a plate to cool. Roll out the pastry to about one-eighth of an inch in thick- ness, and cut some rounds from it. Line eight patty-pans64 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. with pastry, put a spoonful of the meat in each tin, wet round the edge of the pastry, and place a round on the top. Press the edges together, and flute them with the blade of a knife. Make a small hole in the middle of the patty. Decorate with small leaves of pastry. Brush the pastry with beaten egg, and bake in a steady oven for about thirty minutes. Note.—Any cold sauce can be used to moisten the meat instead of making a sauce.SAUCES, PROPORTIONS FOR SAUCES, For a pouring sauce, use half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour to half a pint of liquid. For a coating sauce, use three-quarters of an ounce of butter and three-quarters of an ounce of flour to half a pint of liquid. Melt the butter in a saucepan; draw the pan to the side of the fire. Add the flour, and mix well with the back of a wooden spoon. Add about one-third of the milk; stir carefully till boiling. Add the rest of the milk gradually; bring to the boil, and boil for three minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Prepare in the same way as white sauce, using fish stock instead of milk. A teaspoonful of anchovy essence may be added to make anchovy sauce, or half a gill picked shrimps for shrimp sauce. White Sauce, Half an ounce butter. Half an ounce flour. Half a pint milk. Pepper and salt. Fish Sauce, (1,293) 5PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 66 Six sauce oysters. One ounce butter. Half an ounce flour. Half a pint of oyster liquor Oyster Sauce. and fish stock or water mixed. Salt, cayenne, lemon juice. One dessertspoonful of cream. Blanch the oysters in their liquor; strain them, reserving the liquor for the sauce. Remove the beard, and cut each oyster in two. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour, mix well. Stir in the half-pint of liquor by degrees. Cook from four to five minutes. Add the oysters, seasonings, and cream. Melted Butter. One ounce butter. Half an ounce flour. Half a pint cold water. Pinch of salt. Prepare in the same way as a white sauce. A teaspoonful of sugar may be added instead of salt, and the sauce may be flavoured with lemon essence, vanilla, or lemon juice. Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton, One and a half ounces butter. One and a half ounces flour. Three gills meat boilings. One gill milk. One tablespoonful chopped capers. One teaspoonful caper vine- gar. Prepare in the same way as a white sauce, making it thick enough to coat the back of the spoon. When cooked, add the chopped capers and the caper vinegar. Parsley Sauce. Prepare in the same way as a white sauce. When cooked, add one teaspoonful finely chopped parsley, and boil up once to remove the raw taste of the parsley. Note.—For egg sauce, add a hard-boiled egg chopped roughly instead of the parsley.SAUCES. 67 Bread Sauce* Half an ounce butter. One gill freshly-made bread crumbs. Half a pint milk. One small onion. Two cloves. Six peppercorns. Put the milk, peppercorns, and onion stuck with cloves into a saucepan, and infuse at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, then strain. Return the seasoned milk to the pan with the butter and bread crumbs. Stir till boiling and of a dropping con- sistency. Onion Sauce. One and a half ounces butter. One and a half ounces flour. Three gills meat boilings. One gill milk. Three onions. Pepper and salt. Skin the onions and boil till soft, drain, and rub through a sieve or chop finely. Prepare sauce in the same way as a white sauce; add the chopped onions. Tomato Sauce. Half an ounce butter. Half an ounce rice flour. Half a pint second stock or liquor from tinned toma- toes. One onion. Small piece of carrot. One ounce bacon. Four or five tomatoes. Pepper and salt. Prepare onion and carrot, and cut into slices. Put butter and bacon into a saucepan, and fry slightly. Add onion and carrot, then the tomatoes; bruise down with a spoon, and reduce the sauce for four or five minutes. This improves the flavour and colour. Stir in the rice flour, add the stock. Boil up, and skim if necessary. Season with salt and pepper.68 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Put on the lid and simmer slowly for forty to forty-five minutes, stirring occasionally. Rub through a hair sieve, and reheat. Brown Sauce. Half an ounce dripping. Half an ounce flour. Half-pint second stock. One onion. Small piece of carrot. One dessertspoonful ketchup. Pepper and salt. Prepare carrot and onion, dry well, and cut in thin slices. Melt the dripping, fry the vegetables slightly, add the flour, and stir carefully over a slow fire till of a good brown colour. Add stock by degrees, also a pinch of salt. Boil up, and skim thoroughly. Put on the lid, and simmer the sauce steadily for thirty to forty minutes, stirring and skimming when necessary. Strain, and reheat. Piquante Sauce. Half an ounce dripping. Half an ounce flour. Half a pint stock. One dessertspoonful ketchup. One tablespoonful vinegar. Pepper and salt. One onion and a small piece of carrot. Melt the dripping, fry the vegetables slightly, add the flour, and brown carefully; then add the vinegar, and reduce for four or five minutes. Add the stock by degrees and a pinch of salt. Boil up, skim thoroughly, and add the ketchup. Simmer steadily for thirty to forty minutes, stirring and skimming when necessary. Strain, and reheat. Apple Sauce. One pound apples. Half an ounce butter. One gill water. Half an ounce sugar. Peel, core, and slice the apples, put into a saucepan with the water, butter, and sugar, and cook until quite soft. Beat69 SAUCES. smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, or rub through a hair sieve, and reheat. One bunch mint. One dessertspoonful sugar. Mint Sauce. Two tablespoonfuls hot water. One gill vinegar. Chop the mint very finely; put it into a sauceboat; add the sugar and hot water. When cool, add the vinegar. Custard Sauce. One yolk of egg. One gill of milk. One teaspoonful castor sugar. Vanilla or lemon essence. Beat the yolk of egg and sugar together. Heat the milk and pour it over the egg, stirring carefully. Add the flavour- ing. Strain back into the pan and stir till the custard thickens, but do not let it boil. Serve at once. Cornflour Sauce. Half an ounce cornflour. Half a pint milk. One teaspoonful sugar. Strip of lemon rind. Break the cornflour with a little of the cold milk. Put the rest of the milk into a pan with the lemon rind and bring to the boil. Strain over the cornflour, stirring all the time. Return to the pan, stir till boiling; boil for five minutes to cook the cornflour, then add the sugar. Marmalade Sauce. Half an ounce cornflour. I Rind and juice of one lemon. Half a pint water. I One tablespoonful sugar. One tablespoonful marmalade. Break the cornflour with the lemon juice. Boil the water with the lemon rind, and strain over the cornflour, stirring allPLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 70 the time. Return to the pan, stir till boiling, and boil for five minutes to cook the cornflour. Add the marmalade and sugar. Boil up. Jam Sauce. Two tablespoonfuls raspberry jam. One gill water. Four or five lumps sugar. Rind and juice of half a lemon. A few drops of carmine. Put all except the carmine into a pan, and bring to the boil; simmer for seven to ten minutes; skim frequently. Add a few drops of carmine to colour, and strain. Note.—If liked, one tablespoonful of sherry may be added to the above sauce. Brandy Sauce. One ounce butter. One and a half gills water. Half an ounce flour. Half a gill brandy. Half an ounce sugar. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and water (see Melted Butter, page 66). When cooked, add the sugar and brandy, and sieve.VEGETABLES AND SALADS, VEGETABLES. Potatoes Boiled in their Jackets. Scrub well, place in an iron pan with enough of water to cover them, and the salt (one teaspoonful to each quart of water). Bring to the boil, and boil slowly for about twenty minutes; try with a fork if they are soft. If so, pour away all the water; lift the lid partly off to allow the steam to escape. Place the pan beside the fire till the potatoes are dry, shaking it occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the pan. Remove the skins. Serve hot. Boiled Potatoes. Scrub well, and pare very thinly. Proceed as in the previous recipe. Baked Potatoes. Wash, wipe, and dry the potatoes. Place them in the oven. Turn occasionally, that they may be equally cooked. They are ready when they feel soft, and generally take about one and a half to two hours. Serve very hot. Mashed Potatoes. One pound boiled potatoes. Half a gill milk. Half an ounce butter. A small pinch of pepper. Half a teaspoonful salt.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 72 Crush the potatoes first with a fork and then with a large wooden spoon, to be sure that no lumps remain. Add the butter, milk, salt, and pepper, and mash well in an iron pan over the fire till the butter has melted and mixed with the potatoes. Arrange neatly on a dish. Note.—Mashed potatoes are finest when made with freshly- boiled potatoes, still hot. New Potatoes* Potatoes. | Boiling water. One teaspoonful salt to one quart water. Cleanse and prepare the potatoes (see page 71). Place them in enough boiling water to cover them, and add the salt. Boil briskly for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour till soft. Then dry at the side of the fire, as described for old potatoes. Steamed Potatoes* Scrub and peel the potatoes. Put them in a steamer, sprinkle with salt, cover with a lid, and place the steamer over a pan of boiling water, and cook the potatoes till tender. Potato Chips. Two or three potatoes. | Pan of deep fat. Scrub and peel the potatoes, and cut them into very thin slices. Keep for half an hour in cold water. Drain well on a cloth and dry. Have the fat smoking hot. Put the chips into a frying basket and cook till tender (about three min- utes). Lift up the basket and let the fat reheat for a few seconds. Put the potatoes into the fat again for a few seconds until they are crisp and brown. Drain thoroughly on paper.VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 73 Potato Straws. After slicing the potatoes as for chips, cut into strips about the size and thickness of a match, and cook as for potato chips. Boiled Carrots. Two or three carrots. I Half a teaspoonful salt to one Boiling water. I quart water. Wash and scrape the carrots, and if they are large, cut them in half, lengthways and across. Put them in a pan of boiling salted water and boil for one hour till soft Note.—If old, they may be mashed, or mixed with mashed turnips, with a little pepper, salt, and dripping added. Stewed Carrots. Prepare as for boiled carrots, and stew till tender in stock. Dish the carrots, and then reduce the stock to half glaze, and pour over the carrots. Garnish with a sprinkling of finely- chopped parsley. Turnips (Old). Wash and peel thickly, and cut in neat blocks. Cook in the same way as carrots, allowing a shorter time. They may be mashed, and mixed with pepper, salt, and a little dripping. New Turnips. Pare thinly and cook till tender in boiling salted water. Drain well, and serve with melted butter poured over. Parsnips. Peel the parsnips and cut into neat pieces. Cook in boil- ing salted water until tender (about forty minutes). Drain well, and coat with a white sauce.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 74 Haricot Beans. One pint beans. | Two quarts cold water. One teaspoonful salt. Wash the beans, and soak overnight in cold water. Put the beans into a saucepan, add the two quarts of water and salt, and boil gently for two hours, till the beans are quite soft but not broken. Drain, and serve with parsley sauce poured over. Wash and soak the lentils in cold water overnight, then boil till tender (about one hour). Drain well, and put the lentils into a pan with the butter and as much stock as will make them moist. Reheat. Season well and serve. Put the beetroot without washing it into a large pan with cold water to cover. Bring quickly to the boil, and boil gently till it feels soft when pressed with the finger. Do not prick with a fork, or the juice will run out and bleach the root. Lift the beetroot from the pan, and leave it to cool slightly, then remove the skin while still warm. Leave till cold, and cut into thin slices. Arrange these on a dish, and put a little vinegar over. Note.—(i.) Beetroot may also be served hot with melted butter. (2.) If wanted to keep, put the slices into a jar and cover with boiling vinegar, cork tightly, and keep in a cold place. Lentils. Half a pound lentils. One ounce butter. A little stock. Pepper and salt. Beetroot.75 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Rice. Take the quantity of Patna rice required, wash it thor- oughly, put it into a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and bring it to the boil; skim it, and drain the water off; rinse the rice, and sprinkle it into a pan of boiling salted water. A few drops of lemon juice may be added to keep the rice white. Boil till tender (about twelve minutes), strain off the water, and rinse the rice well under the hot-water tap to separate the grains. Place it on a cloth and dry it in front of the fire. To boil Cabbage, Greens, Savoys, Sprouts, etc. Remove coarse outer leaves, and soak for half an hour in cold water, with salt and vinegar added to freshen the vege- table and to remove insects and earth; then rinse very thor- oughly, and plunge into boiling salted water. Boil briskly, without a lid, and skim frequently. When tender, drain thoroughly in a colander. Cabbages, greens, and savoys may now be chopped and reheated in a pan, with a small pat of butter and seasonings of pepper and salt. Note.—The water from cabbages, greens, etc., should be thrown out at once. Cauliflower. Remove the coarse outer leaves, wash and boil in the same way as cabbage. Drain very carefully, place in a vegetable dish, and coat with white sauce. Leeks. Remove the roots and the coarse green leaves, split the leeks in two, and wash them thoroughly. Tie them in bundles, and boil in boiling salted water till tender (aboutPLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 76 forty minutes). Drain them thoroughly, dish on a square of toast, and coat with white sauce. Artichokes. Soak, wash carefully, and peel the artichokes very thinly, keeping them as much under water, in the preparation, as possible, to preserve the colour—a few drops of vinegar in the water aid this. Boil in boiling salted water till tender (about thirty minutes). Drain, dish on toast, and coat with white sauce. Stewed Celery. Wash and scrape the celery very thoroughly, cut it into lengths, and tie it in bundles. Put them in a pan, cover with cold water, bring to the boil, skim, and strain off the water. This blanching removes the strong taste and whitens the celery. Put sufficient milk and water into a pan to almost cover the celery; add a pinch of salt; when boiling, put in the celery, and stew till tender (about one hour). Drain thoroughly, dish on a square of toast, and coat with a white sauce. Note.—The liquor in which the celery was cooked may be used for the sauce. Spinach. Wash the spinach very thoroughly, and remove the coarse stalks; put it into a rinsed lined pan, with the water that clings to the leaves; put the lid on the pan, and cook till tender, stirring frequently. When ready, drain on a sieve, then rub it through; put it into a pan, with a small pat of butter and pinches of pepper and salt; allow it to heat thor- oughly, and pile neatly on a hot vegetable dish. Garnish with tiny croutons of fried bread.77 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. SALADS. Mayonnaise Dressing. One yolk of egg. Salad oil. Salt, pepper, a little mustard. Malt and tarragon vinegar. Put the yolk of egg and seasonings into a bowl. Add the salad oil drop by drop, stirring all the time. When thick and smooth, thin down gradually with the vinegar. The mayonnaise dressing should be about the consistency of thick cream. Cream Salad Dressing. One hard-boiled yolk of egg. Pinches of pepper, salt, and mustard. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. One dessertspoonful of tar- ragon vinegar. Sieve the yolk into a bowl, add the seasonings, and gradually work in the cream. Thin the dressing down with the vinegar. French Dressing. One tablespoonful salad oil. | Pinches of pepper and salt. One dessertspoonful vinegar. Mix the oil and seasonings in a bowl, then gradually work in the vinegar. Spring Salad. One lettuce. I Bunch of mustard and cress. Bunch of water-cress. | One tomato. One hard-boiled egg. Wash the green salads carefully, taking care not to bruise the leaves, and drain them well on a cloth. Pour boiling78 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. water over the tomato, peel it, and cut it into sections. Cut the egg into neat pieces. Mix the salad with a dress- ing, and arrange tastefully in a salad bowl. Note.—Any salad in season may be used. Winter Salad. For this salad any cooked vegetables—namely, potato, haricot beans, beetroot, carrot, cauliflower, etc., may be used. The vegetables must be cut into suitable-sized pieces, and tossed in a dressing. Tomato and Celery Salad. Two tomatoes. | Three sticks celery. Peel and slice the tomatoes. Shred the celery into cold water, and allow it to stand for half an hour : this makes the celery curl up. Drain well. Arrange the tomatoes in a circle, pile the celery in the centre, and pour over French dressing.PASTRY, Short Crust Pastry* Eight ounces flour. Four ounces butter. Half a teaspoonful baking- Half a teaspoonful salt. A little cold water; or, if wished richer, one yolk of egg and water. powder. Sieve the flour, baking-powder, and salt into a dry, cool basin. Put in the butter, and rub it into the flour with the tips of the fingers till the mixture resembles fine bread crumbs. Add sufficient cold water to form a stiff paste. Turn the paste on to a floured board. Knead slightly till free from cracks, then roll it out to the size required. The pastry should be about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Prepare the fruit first. If rhubarb is used, wipe thoroughly with a damp cloth, remove the coarse skin, and cut the rhubarb into lengths of one inch. Apples are peeled, quartered, and cored. Gooseberries and other fruits are washed thoroughly, and the stalks and tops removed. In filling the pie-dish, put in half of the fruit, then add the Fruit Tart. Short crust pastry. Fruit to fill pie-dish. Beaten white of egg and castor sugar to glaze. Sugar to sweeten.8o PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES sugar in the centre, piling the rest of the fruit on the top Prepare the pastry, and roll it out about one inch larger than the rim of the pie-dish. Cut a strip from the pastry one inch wide, wet the edge of the pie-dish, and place the strip on without stretching it. Join the cut ends by wetting them. Brush the strip of pastry with water and lay on the cover, pressing it down to the strip. Trim off any rough edges, open up the pastry with the back of a knife, and decorate the edge with tiny flutes. Brush the pastry over with the beaten white of an egg, dredge with castor sugar, and make two small holes with a skewer to allow escape of steam. Place the tart in a hot oven for the first five or ten minutes till the pastry is risen and slightly browned, then remove the tart to a lower shelf till the fruit is quite soft. (Average time about three-quarters to one hour, depend- ing on the kind of fruit and size of pie.) On removing the tart from the oven dust over with castor sugar. It may be served hot or cold. Open Tart. Short crust pastry (six ounces flour, three ounces butter, etc.). Beaten white of egg. Castor sugar. Jam, or stewed fruit. Wet a strong dinner-plate or ashet with cold water. Roll out the pastry a little larger than the plate. Lay it on, and trim off the rough edges. Prick the centre with a fork to prevent it rising from the plate in the centre. Roll out the scraps and cut into small fancy shapes. Brush the rim of the pastry with beaten white of egg, and decorate it with the small shapes of pastry, pressing them well down in the centre. Brush over again with the white of egg, and dredge with castor sugar. Cut a round of greased paper to fit the centre of the tart; lay it on, and place in it some haricot beans or crusts of bread to prevent the pastry rising in the centre. Put the tart into a hot oven, reducing the heat after81 PASTRY. the pastry has risen and begun to brown. About ten minutes before removing from the oven remove the paper and beans, and allow the pastry in the centre to dry off. When dishing, dredge the edge with castor sugar, and fill up the centre with jam, which should be heated if the tart is to be served hot. Cheese Cakes* Short crust pastry. Filling. One egg; its weight in butter, sugar, and flour. Little grated lemon rind. Quarter of a teaspoonful baking-powder. A little jam. Roll the pastry out thinly, cut into rounds, and line greased patty-tins, and put half a teaspoonful of jam at the bottom of each tin. Cream the butter and sugar; add the grated lemon rind, egg, flour, and baking powder; mix well, and half fill each tin with the mixture. Bake in a moderately hot oven till risen and firm (about twenty to thirty minutes). Apple Balls. Short crust pastry (four ounces flour, two ounces butter, etc.). Two apples. Two teaspoonfuls sugar. Two cloves. Beaten white of egg. Castor sugar. Prepare the apples by wiping, peeling, and removing the core without splitting the apple. Make the pastry, and roll it out a ^quarter of an inch in thickness. Cut it into rounds large enough to surround the apple. Place the apple in the centre of the round, and fill up the core with sugar and one clove. Wet the edges of the pastry, and fold it up neatly round the apple, joining it at the top. Roll the ball between the hands, and place it on a greased baking sheet, rough side down. Brush over with beaten white of egg, dredge (1,293) 682 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. with castor sugar, and bake first in a hot oven till the pastry is a light brown colour, then in a cooler shelf till the apple is soft. Before dishing, dredge with castor sugar, and serve either hot or cold. Fruit Turnovers. Short crust pastry. | Jam, or stewed fruit. Roll the pastry out thinly, and cut it into rounds; damp round the edges of each round; place a little jam or fruit in the centre; fold the pastry over, pressing the edges together. Glaze over, and bake in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Dredge with sugar, and dish. Rough Puff Pastry. Eight ounces flour. Few drops of lemon juice. Four ounces butter or lard. Cold water. Sieve the flour into a bowl; add the lemon juice and the butter broken into pieces the size of a walnut; add sufficient cold water to make the mixture adhere. Turn on to a floured board, and roll the pastry into a long strip. Fold it in three, and press the edges together. Half turn the pastry, and again roll it into a strip. Fold in three, and repeat this until the pastry has had four rolls, folds, and half- turns. It is then ready for use. Rough puff pastry is suit- able for meat pies, patties, sausage rolls, etc. Note.—If a richer pastry is desired, use six ounces butter to eight ounces flour. Hot-Water Pastry. Eight ounces flour. Half a gill hot water. Two ounces lard. Half a teaspoonful salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Put the water and lard into a pan, and when boiling pour into the dry ingredi-PASTRY. 83 ents. Mix with a spoon, and when cool enough turn on to a floured board and knead till smooth. Form quickly into the shape required. Suet Eight ounces flour. Four ounces suet. Half a teaspoonful salt. Pastry. Half a teaspoonful baking- powder. Cold water. Sieve the flour, baking-powder, and salt into a basin. Shred down the suet, and chop it very finely before adding to the other dry ingredients. Mix these together, and make into a stiff paste with the cold water. Turn the paste on to a floured board, knead it till free from cracks, then roll it out to the size required. It should be about half an inch in thickness. Fruit Pudding* Suet pastry as above. | One pound fruit. Sugar to sweeten. Prepare the fruit the same as for a fruit tart. Grease a strong basin thoroughly, and line with the pastry, excluding all air from between pastry and basin. Put in half of the prepared fruit, add the sugar, then put in the rest of the fruit, pressing it well down, and having the basin quite full. Trim the pastry, and roll the scraps into a round; wet the edges of the pastry, and put on the round to form a cover. Scald a pudding-cloth by dipping the centre in boiling water; dredge it with flour, and place it over the pudding, floured side down. Make a fold in the centre to admit of the pudding rising, and tie the cloth firmly on with a string. Gather up the ends of the cloth, and drop the pudding gently into a pan of fast-boiling water. There must be sufficient water to cover the pudding during the whole process of cook-84 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. ing, and it must boil steadily all the time. Time for cooking, two and a half to three hours. To dish the pudding, remove string and cloth. Dish on a deep ashet. Serve hot. Roly-poly* Suet pastry. Jam. Roll the pastry into an oblong-shaped piece. Spread with jam to within one inch of the edge. Wet the edge of the pastry with water, and roll it up carefully, pressing the edges together. Scald and flour a pudding-cloth, and roll the roly-poly in it. Tie firmly at each end, leaving a little room for swelling. Cook by steady boiling for two and a half to three hours. To dish—drain well, then undo the string at each end. Unroll carefully on to a hot dish. Serve hot. Note.—Instead of tying in a cloth and boiling, this pud- ding may be placed on a greased tin and baked in a moderate oven. Time required for baking, about one hour. Syrup Pudding* Suet pastry. Pinch of ground ginger, or a Three tablespoonfuls syrup. little grated lemon rind. Two tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. Mix the syrup, bread crumbs, and seasoning together. Roll the pastry out one-quarter inch in thickness. Cut into rounds of various sizes. Place a small round at the foot of a greased bowl, and place on it a teaspoonful of the mixture. Wet the edge of the round, and place another a size larger on the top. Put on more of the syrup, then another round, and so on till the basin is quite full. Cover with a scalded and floured cloth, and cook by steady boiling for two and a half to three hours. Remove the cloth, and turn out on a hot dish. A little melted syrup may be poured round as a sauce if wished. Serve hot.85 PASTRY, Flaky Pastry* Three-quarters pound flour. Pinch of salt. Half-pound butter. Cold water to bind. Wash the butter, dry it well in a floured cloth, and divide it into three equal-sized pieces. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and mix to an elastic dough with cold water; knead this till smooth on a floured board, and roll out into a strip. Take one portion of butter and spread it in small pats equally over two-thirds of the dough, fold in three, seal the edges, and turn the rough edges to the right hand. Roll out, and add second and third portions of butter in same way, then roll the pastry to the size required.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES Rice Pudding* One and a half ounces rice. I One dessertspoonful granu- One pint milk. | lated sugar. A little grated nutmeg. Grease a pie-dish. Wash the rice well, and put it into the dish with the sugar and milk. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. If the milk dries up too much, add a little more. One and a half ounces tapioca One gill water. One pint milk. Tapioca Pudding One egg One dessertspoonful granu- lated sugar. Pinch of nutmeg. Wash the tapioca. Put it into a bowl, and cover with the water, and soak it about one hour until all the water is absorbed. Put the milk and tapioca into a rinsed pan, bring to the boil and simmer till the grain is soft and clear (about thirty minutes), then draw to the side of the fire and let it cool a little. Break up the egg, mix well with the tapioca, add the sugar, and pour the mixture into a buttered pie- dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 87 Sago Pudding. If large sago is used, allow the same proportions and pre- pare as for Tapioca Pudding (page 86). If small sago is preferred, use the same proportions and prepare as for Semolina Pudding. Semolina Pudding* One and a half ounces semo- One ounce sugar, lina. One pint milk. One or two eggs. Heat the milk in a saucepan and sprinkle in the semolina; bring slowly to the boil, and simmer until the grain is soft (about ten minutes), stirring all the time. Remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar, and allow the mixture to cool for a little. Break the eggs and separate the yolk from the white; add the yolk to the semolina, and mix well. Beat up the white to a stiff froth, and mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingredients. Pour into a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Hominy Pudding* One and a half ounces hominy. One pint milk. One ounce sugar. One or two eggs. Soak the hominy all night in the milk, then put the milk and grain into a saucepan. Bring slowly to the boil, and then simmer for about thirty minutes. Add a little more milk if necessary. Remove the pan from the fire; add the sugar; let the mixture cool a little. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; add the yolks to the hominy; mix well. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into a greased pie- dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 88 Ground Rice Pudding. One and a half ounces ground rice. One pint milk. One or two eggs. Few drops of essence (lemon or vanilla). One ounce sugar. Break the ground rice to a smooth paste with a little of the milk. Boil the rest of the milk in a saucepan, then pour the boiling milk on to the ground rice. Put the milk and rice into a rinsed pan, bring to the boil, and cook about five minutes. Remove from the fire, add the sugar, and let the mixture cool a little. Beat the eggs, add the yolks to the rice, and mix well. Beat up the whites of the eggs stiffly, then mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingredi- ents. Turn into a greased pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Farola, Cornflour, Arrowroot* Prepare and cook in the same way as Ground Rice Pud- ding, using farola, cornflour, or arrowroot instead of ground rice. Barley Pudding* Three-quarters ounce barley. Half a pint milk. One egg. Half an ounce soft sugar. Wash the barley ; let it soak all night in cold water. Put it into a pan with the milk and sugar; simmer till quite soft (from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour). Break the egg, and beat it slightly with a fork in a pie-dish; add the barley and milk, stirring well together. Brown in an oven or before the fire.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 89 Macaroni Two ounces macaroni. Two ounces soft sugar. One egg. One pint milk. Pudding. Quarter - ounce dripping or butter. One pinch seasoning. Two quarts hot water. Break the macaroni into small pieces, and put into a saucepan of hot water ; boil it uncovered for twenty minutes; pour away the water; add the milk and sugar. Simmer very slowly for about a quarter of an hour till the macaroni is quite tender. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to cool the mixture a little. Break the egg into a cup; beat it slightly with a fork; stir in the macaroni, milk, and seasoning. Pour into a greased pie-dish, and bake in the oven or before the fire till it is of a golden colour. Two ounces bread crumbs. Half a pint milk. Half an ounce butter. Bread Crumb Pudding. Half an ounce sugar. One or two eggs. Few drops of vanilla essence. Boil the milk and butter in a saucepan, then pour the milk over the bread crumbs; add the sugar. Break the eggs, add the yolks to the mixture, and mix well; add the flavouring. Beat up the whites of the eggs stiffly, and mix lightly and thoroughly with the other ingredients. Turn the mixture into a greased pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes. Custard Pudding. Two eggs. I Few drops of vanilla or lemon Half an ounce sugar. I essence. Half a pint milk. Beat up the eggs lightly, add the milk, and strain into a greased pie-dish. Put in the sugar and flavouring. Put thePLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 90 pudding-dish in a Yorkshire tin, and pour into the tin enough cold water to come half-way up the pudding-dish. Put the pudding into a moderate oven, and bake till the custard is firm to the touch (about three-quarters of an hour). The pudding must not boil or the eggs will curdle. Syrup Sponge Pudding. Half a pound flour. Pinch of salt. Quarter a pound suet. Half a teaspoonful bicarbon- ate of soda. Two teaspoonfuls ground ginger. One gill syrup. One gill milk. One egg. Sieve the flour and salt; shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl. Beat up the egg, add the milk and syrup to it, and stir the liquid into the dry in- gredients. Grease a pudding-bowl and pour in the mixture, which should fill the bowl about two-thirds full. Cover with a greased paper. Put the pudding into a stewpan with enough boiling water to come half-way up the bowl, and steam for two hours. Turn out the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round three tablespoonfuls of golden syrup made hot and flavoured with a few drops of lemon juice. Gingerbread Pudding, Three ounces bread crumbs. One and a half ounces flour. Two ounces sugar. Three ounces suet. Two eggs. One teaspoonful of ground ginger. Half a teaspoonful bicarbon- ate of soda. One tablespoonful syrup. Three-quarters of a gill milk. Sieve the flour into a bowl; shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all the dry ingredients. Beat up the eggs, add the syrupPUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 91 and milk, and stir into the dry ingredients. Pour the mixture into a greased bowl; cover with a greased paper. Put the bowl into a stewpan with enough boiling water to come half- way up the bowl, and steam one and a half hours. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round sweet melted-butter sauce. Sir Watkin Wynne Pudding* Six ounces bread crumbs. Three ounces suet. Three ounces sugar. Two eggs. One and a half tablespoonfuls marmalade. A little milk if necessary. Make the bread crumbs; shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl. Beat up the eggs, add the marmalade, and mix the liquid with the dry ingredients. The mixture should be rather moist as the bread crumbs swell, so add milk if necessary. Turn into a greased bowl, cover with a greased paper, and steam for about one and a half hours. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round either marmalade or sweet melted-butter sauce. Plain Suet Pudding* Six ounces flour. Two ounces bread crumbs. Pinch of salt. Half a teaspoonful baking- powder. Four ounces suet. About one gill milk. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking-powder into a bowl; make the bread crumbs; shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all the dry ingredients together, add the milk, and mix well: the mixture should drop easily from a spoon. Turn it into a greased bowl, cover with a greased paper, and steam about one and a half hours. Note.—This pudding may be tied in a floured cloth and boiled for about two hours.92 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Plain Plum Pudding. Four ounces bread crumbs. Two ounces flour. Three ounces suet Two ounces raisins. Two ounces sultanas. Two ounces currants. One ounce peel. Pinches of cinnamon, ginger, allspice, nutmeg, cloves. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Two eggs. Half-gill milk. Salt. Two ounces sugar. Clean the fruit and stone the raisins; shred and chop the peel roughly; shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all dry ingredients in a bowl. Beat up the eggs, add the milk, and stir into the dry ingredients. Pour the mixture into a buttered bowl, tie over a floured cloth, put into a pan of boiling water, and cook from six to seven hours. This pud- ding may be boiled in a floured cloth; it will then take about three hours to boil. When sufficiently cooked, turn the pudding out, and serve with melted butter or brandy sauce. French Rice Pudding* Three ounces castor sugar. Three ounces rice. Three ounces suet. Four ounces raisins. Three ounces candied peel. Two eggs. One pint milk. Wash the rice well, put it into a stewpan with the milk, and cook gently until all the milk is absorbed. Stone and chop the raisins; chop the suet and peel. Beat all these ingredients with the sugar into the rice. Beat the eggs well, and add them. Pour this mixture into a greased pudding- bowl, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for two hours. Turn out the pudding, and pour round marmalade sauce.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 93 Baroness Pudding. Half a pound flour. Half a pound suet. Half a pound stoned raisins. One egg. One and a half gills milk. Pinch of salt. Chop the suet finely; stone the raisins, cut them in half, and mix them with the flour, salt, and suet. Beat the egg, add the milk, and stir into the dry ingredients. Mix well. Tie in a floured cloth, and boil from four to five hours. When cooked, turn out, and pour round sweet melted-butter sauce. Snowdon Pudding. Three ounces suet. Four ounces bread crumbs. Three-quarters ounce ground rice. Four ounces raisins. Three tablespoonfuls marma- lade. Three ounces castor sugar. One lemon (grated rind). Two eggs. Half a gill milk. Ornament a greased pudding-bowl with the raisins, stoned and cut in half but not divided, pressing the cut sides on the bowl. Make the bread crumbs, and shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin. Beat up the eggs, add the marmalade and milk, and stir them into the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into the prepared bowl, and steam for two hours. Turn on to a hot dish, and serve with marmalade sauce. Fig Pudding. Three ounces suet. One ounce flour. Four ounces bread crumbs. Eighteen figs. One tablespoonful syrup. Three ounces sugar. Three eggs. Half a teaspoonful bicarbon- ate of soda. Half a gill milk.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 94 Stew the figs in a little water until tender, then chop them finely; shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all the dry in- gredients in a bowl; add the figs, beaten eggs, syrup, and milk. Turn into a well-greased bowl, cover with a buttered paper, and steam steadily for two hours. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour a custard sauce round. Note.—Date pudding may be made by the above recipe, substituting half a pound dates for the figs. Lemon Half a pound bread crumbs. Quarter a pound suet. Two ounces flour. One and a Pudding. Four ounces moist sugar. Two lemons. Two eggs, half gills milk. Make the bread crumbs; shred and chop the suet finely. Mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl, and add the grated lemon rind. Strain the lemon juice. Beat up the eggs, add the milk, and stir the liquid into the dry ingredients. Mix well. Pour the mixture into a greased bowl, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about one and a half hours. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round either a custard sauce or a sweet white sauce. Marmalade Pudding. Four ounces bread crumbs. Two ounces suet. Two ounces candied peel. One lemon. One egg. Half a gill milk. Three tablespoonfuls marmalade. Make the bread crumbs, shred and chop the suet finely, shred the candied peel, and grate the rind of the lemon. Mix all the dry ingredients, beat up the eggs, add the marmalade and the milk, and pour the liquid into the dry ingredients.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 95 Turn into a buttered bowl, cover with a greased paper, and steam the pudding for about one and a half hours. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round marmalade sauce. Sultana Four ounces flour. Two ounces butter. Two ounces sugar. Two ounces sultanas. Pudding. Two eggs. Half a teaspoonful baking- powder. About half a gill of milk. Ornament a greased bowl with the cleaned sultanas. Cream the butter and sugar well, then add one egg and a little flour, and mix thoroughly. Add the second egg, the rest of the flour, and the baking-powder, and mix well. Put in the milk if necessary; this will depend on the size of the eggs. The pudding mixture should drop easily from a spoon. Turn it into the prepared bowl, cover with -buttered paper, and steam steadily from one and a half to two hours. Turn out, and pour round a custard sauce. Newcastle Pudding* Two eggs; their weight in I Half a teaspoonful baking- butter, sugar, and flour. | powder. A little milk. Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly; add one egg and a dessertspoonful of flour; mix well. Add the second egg, with a little flour; then add the rest of the flour, mixing it well, and use a little milk if necessary. The baking-powder should be added with the last tablespoonful of flour. Turn the mixture into a buttered bowl; cover with a greased paper; steam for about one hour. Turn the pudding out, and pour round jam sauce.96 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Sponge Pudding. Three ounces flour. Two ounces butter. Two ounces sugar. Two eggs. Half a teaspoonful powder. baking- About half a gill of milk. Cream the butter and sugar. Break the eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites. Add one yolk and a little flour to the creamed butter and sugar; add the second yolk in the same way. Beat up the whites of the eggs stiffly, and mix lightly into the other ingredients, together with the rest of the flour, the baking-powder, and the milk. Turn the mixture into a buttered bowl, cover with a greased paper, and steam very gently for about one hour. When the pudding feels firm in the middle turn it on to a hot dish, and pour round custard or jam sauce. Coffee Pudding. Two ounces butter. Two ounces sugar. One ounce ground rice. Three ounces flour. One tablespoonful of coffee essence. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Two eggs. Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly; add one egg, and half the flour and ground rice; mix well. Then add the second egg, with the rest of the flour, ground rice, and baking-powder. Add the coffee essence. Turn the mixture into a greased bowl, cover with a greased paper, and steam steadily for one and a half hours. Turn out the pudding, and pour round a cornflour sauce flavoured with a teaspoonful of coffee essence.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 97 Brown Bread Pudding. Four ounces brown bread crumbs. One and a half ounces of butter. Two ounces castor sugar. Two eggs. One gill milk. Rind of half a lemon. Pinches of nutmeg and cin- namon. A little lemon juice. Make the crumbs, grate the lemon rind, cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks of the eggs, and beat well. Add the cinnamon, nutmeg, crumbs, and milk. Soak for a short time, then mix lightly the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin or bowl; steam gently from three-quarters to one hour. Turn the pudding out, and pour wine sauce round. Cocoanut Pudding* One ounce bread crumbs. One ounce cake crumbs. Two ounces cocoanut. One ounce sugar. One ounce butter. One and a half gills of milk. Two small eggs. A little vanilla essence. Put the cocoanut and milk into a saucepan, bring to the boil, then simmer for about ten minutes until the milk is absorbed. Cream the butter and sugar, and add the cake and bread crumbs, the cocoanut, and the yolks of the eggs. Mix well, and flavour with vanilla essence. Beat up the whites of the eggs stiffly, then mix lightly with the other ingredients. Turn the mixture into a greased bowl, cover with greased paper, and steam gently for about an hour. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round jam sauce. 798 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Chocolate Two ounces chocolate. One gill milk. Three and a half ounces bread crumbs. Pudding* One and a half ounces butter One and a half ounces sugar. Two small eggs. Vanilla essence. Put the milk and chocolate into a saucepan, and dissolve the chocolate. Cream the butter, break the eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites. Whip the whites stiffly. Add the yolks and a few crumbs to the butter and sugar, and mix thoroughly. Add the chocolate and the rest of the crumbs, and mix these ingredients well together. Add the whites, and mix lightly and well. Pour the mixture into a greased mould; cover with a greased paper; steam steadily about three-quarters of an hour. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour custard sauce round. Plain Cabinet Pudding* Two thin slices of white bread and butter. One tablespoonful raisins or sultanas. Two gills hot milk. Two eggs. One dessertspoonful sugar. Vanilla essence. Grease a pudding-bowl, and decorate with the prepared sultanas or raisins. Cut the bread and butter into small pieces, and put them into the bowl. Add the sugar and the rest of the sultanas. Beat up the eggs; add the hot milk and vanilla. Strain over the bread. Cover the pudding-bowl with buttered paper, and let it stand for fifteen minutes, so that the bread may swell and absorb some of the milk. Then steam the pudding very gently until firm to the touch (about an hour). The water in the pan must not boil or the custard will curdle. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour round custard sauce.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 99 Vanilla Souffle One ounce butter. One ounce flour. One gill milk. One dessertspoonful of castor sugar. A little vanilla essence. Three yolks and four whites of eggs. Tie a fourfold band of paper round the outside of a plain souffle tin. The paper should be about three inches wide, and should be about two inches above the top of the souffle tin. Then grease both the tin and the paper with clarified butter. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, and whip the whites very stiffly. Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the flour and the milk, and stir briskly until the mix- ture is thick and leaves the sides of the pan clean. This sauce is called a panada. Add the sugar and the yolks one by one to the panada and beat well. Flavour with vanilla essence, then fold the stiffly-beaten whites into the mixture. Pour into the tin; cover with the greased paper; steam very gently for about forty minutes, or until the souffle feels firm to the touch. When cooked, lift the tin from the pan, take off the band of paper, let the souffle stand for a few seconds, then turn it carefully on to a hot dish. Pour round a custard or jam sauce. Marmalade and Vermicelli Pudding. Three ounces vermicelli. Three-quarters of a pint milk. Two small eggs. One tablespoonful marmalade. One ounce raisins. One ounce sugar. Cook the vermicelli and milk until tender (about twenty minutes); add the stoned raisins, beaten eggs, sugar, and marmalade. Turn into a greased bowl; cover with greased paper; steam gently about an hour. Turn out the pudding, and pour over marmalade sauce.100 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. West Riding Pudding. Some trimmings of short crust or rough puff pastry. Two tablespoonfuls of jam. Half-teaspoonful Two eggs, and their weight in butter, sugar, and flour. Grated rind of half a lemon, of baking-powder. Line the sides of a pie-dish with a thin strip of pastry, then decorate the edge of the dish with fancily-cut shapes of pastry. Spread the jam at the bottom of the dish. Cream the butter and sugar well; add the eggs and flour by degrees; beat all the ingredients well; add the baking-powder with the last tablespoonful of flour. Pour the mixture into the pie- dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about one and a quarter hours. Apple Amber. One pound apples (after peel- ing)- One lemon. Two ounces butter. Two eggs. A few preserved cherries. Trimmings of short crust or rough puff pastry. Three ounces moist sugar. Peel, core, and slice the apples. Put them into a stewpan with the butter, sugar, and a few strips of lemon rind, and cook until tender; then rub through a hair sieve. Add the yolks of the eggs to the apples, and mix well. Line a pie-dish with a thin strip of pastry, then decorate the edge of the dish with fancy shapes of pastry. Pour the apple mixture into the prepared dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes; then remove from the oven. Whip the whites very stiffly, add to them about two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Place this meringue over the apples, dredge with castor sugar, decorate with cherries, and place the pudding in a cool oven to set the white of egg. It will take about thirty minutes.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES, ioi Baked Lemon Podding. Trimmings of rough puff or short crust pastry. Three ounces castor sugar. Three eggs. Two lemons. Three ounces cake crumbs. Half a gill milk. Line and decorate the edges of a pie-dish with the pastry. Mix the yolks of the eggs and the sugar well, then add the sieved cake crumbs, the grated lemon rind, and the strained lemon juice. Whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly, and mix lightly with the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into the prepared pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. General Favourite* Two sponge cakes. A little jam. Two eggs. One dessertspoonful sugar. Half a pint milk. Vanilla essence. Split the sponge cakes and spread them with jam. Cut them into neat pieces, and put them into a greased pie-dish. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, and pour over them the hot milk. Strain the custard over the sponge cakes, place the pie-dish in a Yorkshire tin, and surround the dish with water: this is to prevent the custard boiling and curdling. Bake the pudding in a cool oven until the custard is set (about thirty minutes); then take the pudding out of the oven. Whip up the whites of the eggs stiffly, add to them very lightly two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, place the meringue on the pudding, dredge with sugar, and put the pudding into a cool oven to set the white of egg. It will take about thirty minutes.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 102 Blafeemore Pudding. One sponge cake. | Rind and juice of half a lemon. Two tablespoonfuls jam. Pastry. Three ounces cornflour. Four ounces flour. Three ounces butter. Two ounces castor sugar. One yolk of egg. A little milk. Rub the sponge cake through a wire sieve, then mix the crumbs with the grated lemon rind, strained lemon juice, and the jam. Sieve the flour and the cornflour; rub in the butter until like fine bread crumbs; add the castor sugar. Break up the yolk of egg with a little milk, and with this mix the dry ingredients to a stiff dough. Turn on to a floured board : knead lightly; roll the pastry about a quarter-inch in thick- ness. Line a greased plate with the pastry, then spread the mixture over. Knead up the trimmings of pastry, roll into a round, wet round the edges of the plate with water. Spread the round of pastry over the mixture. Flute and decorate the edges of the pudding; further decorate with four leaves of pastry. Brush with white of egg, sift with sugar, and bake in a quick oven for about thirty minutes. Bakewell Pudding. Pastry to line a dish, either rough puff or short crust. Two tablespoonfuls of red- currant jam. Two tablespoonfuls of lemon curd. Two ounces butter. Three ounces sugar. Three ounces cake crumbs. Three ounces ground almonds. Three eggs. Rind and juice of half a lemon. Line and decorate a pie-dish with pastry; spread the bot- tom of the dish with jam and lemon curd. Cream the butterPUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 103 and the sugar well; add the eggs by degrees with the almonds, crumbs, the grated rind, and strained juice of lemon. Mix all the ingredients well. Spread the mixture over the jam; bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Apple Fritters. Two apples. Batter. Two ounces flour. Pinch of salt. One tablespoonful salad oil. Sufficient tepid water to make the flour into a stiff batter. Stiffly-beaten white of one egg. Fat for frying the fritters. Sieve the flour and salt into a bowl. Make a well in the centre, and put in the salad oil; then with a wooden spoon stir in tepid water till a rather stiff batter is made. Beat well, and let it stand for about an hour. Peel the apples thinly, then cut them into slices, cutting across the core of the apple; with a small cutter remove the core from the slices of apple. Whip up the white of egg stiffly; mix it lightly into the prepared batter. Dip each slice of apple through the batter, then put them carefully into a pan of hot clarified fat. Fry the fritters to a golden brown, drain well, dust with castor sugar, and serve at once. The fat for frying batter should just be beginning to smoke, but should not be so hot as for frying fish, etc. Pancakes. Four ounces flour; pinch of salt. One egg. Half a pint of milk. For frying the pancakes about two tablespoonfuls of clari- fied fat. Sieve the flour and salt into a bowl. Make a well in the centre; drop in the egg and half the milk. Stir until smooth,104 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. then beat the batter well until air bubbles rise. Stir in the rest of the milk, and strain the batter into a jug, and let it stand for an hour. Pour a little of the hot clarified fat into a frying-pan. Place the pan over a good heat and make it hot, then pour into the pan just enough batter to cover the bottom thinly. Fry quickly until of a golden brown. While the pancake is frying shake the pan gently, and loosen round the edges with a knife; then slip the knife under the pancake and turn it over. Fry until golden brown, turn the pancake on to sugared paper, sprinkle with sugar, and squeeze over it a little lemon juice. Roll up and keep hot. When all the pancakes are fried pile neatly on a hot dish, and dust with sugar. Neatly-cut pieces of lemon should be sent to table with the pancakes. Note.—Pancake batter may be made richer by using:— Two ounces flour. One gill milk. Two eggs. Salt. Yorkshire Pudding. Quantity and preparation of batter as for Pancakes. After the batter has been allowed to stand for an hour, put about two tablespoonfuls of dripping from the roast of meat into a Yorkshire tin and grease it thoroughly. Pour in the batter. Bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. When brown, well risen, and sufficiently cooked, cut the pudding into about eight pieces, and serve neatly on a hot dish. Lemon Jelly. One and a half pints cold water. Half a pint lemon juice. Rind of two lemons. Six ounces loaf sugar. One inch of cinnamon stick. Two cloves. Two and a half ounces French sheet gelatine. Two whites and shells of eggs.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 105 For making jelly choose a strong, deep pan. Rinse the pan; put in the water, sherry, rind of lemon peeled very thinly, the strained lemon juice, sugar, cloves, gelatine, and the whites and well-washed shells of eggs. Place the pan over a strong heat, and whisk the jelly until almost boiling; then draw out the whisk, and boil the jelly steadily for a few minutes. Draw the pan to the side of the stove, cover the jelly with a plate, and let it stand for eight or ten minutes. Tie a clean coarse linen cloth firmly over the legs of a kitchen chair, resting the seat of the chair on the table. Place a bowl underneath the jelly cloth, and pour through the cloth a little boiling water: this is to warm the cloth to ensure the jelly running through. Empty the water from the bowl, place it again under the cloth, and pour the jelly on to the top of the cloth. When a little jelly has run into the bowl, lift it out, and slip a clean bowl in its place. Pour the jelly gently through the cloth again. Do this until the jelly in the bowl looks quite clear. Cover the chair over with a blanket, and let all the jelly drip through the cloth. When the jelly is cold, but still liquid, pour it into a mould first rinsed with cold water, and allow the jelly to set. When firm, dip the mould quickly through warm water, and turn •out the jelly. Note.—If preferred, one quarter-pint of lemon juice and one quarter-pint sherry can be used instead of one half-pint of lemon juice. Apple Jelly* One pound apples. One to two ounces sugar. Strip of lemon rind. Half a pint water. Half an ounce gelatine. Two tablespoonfuls water. Wipe, peel, and slice the apples into a lined pan; add the sugar, lemon rind, and half a pint of water, and stew till tender; then rub through a hair sieve. Dissolve the gelatineio6 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. in the two tablespoonfuls of water and strain it into the apple puree. If desired, a few drops of carmine can be added. When the apple mixture is cold, pour it into a china mould. When set, turn out. Note.—Rhubarb jelly is prepared in the same way, but use one gill of water instead of half a pint for stewing it. Coffee Jelly* Half a pint strong coffee. Half an ounce gelatine. One dessertspoonful sugar. A few drops vanilla essence. Half a gill cream; flavouring; sugar. Cherries to decorate. Make the coffee, and strain through a muslin into a sauce- pan. Add the gelatine, cut in small pieces, and stir till it dissolves; add the sugar and flavouring; strain into a basin, and set aside till almost cold. Pour into a wet border mould and leave till firm. Turn out. Whip the cream stiffly, flavour, and pile it in the centre of the mould. Decorate with cherries cut in quarters. Lemon Sponge. Two lemons. Two ounces sugar. Half an ounce gelatine. Two whites of eggs. Half a pint water. Wipe the lemons, and peel the rind off very thinly; put it, with the water, sugar, and gelatine, into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until the sugar and gelatine are dissolved; then strain into a basin. Add to this the strained juice of the lemons and the whites of eggs, and whip until stiff; then pile roughly into a glass dish. Note.—If desired, the lemon sponge can be moulded, in which case it must not be so stiffly beaten.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 107 Cornflour Shape* Two ounces cornflour. One dessertspoonful sugar. One pint milk. Flavouring. Put the milk into a rinsed pan to heat. Keep back about half a gill, and break the cornflour with it. Pour the heated milk over the cornflour, put it back into the rinsed pan, and stir till it boils. Boil for eight minutes. Add the sugar and flavouring, and turn into a wet china mould. When cold and firm turn out. Note.—The above proportions are used in making shapes of all farinaceous materials. If in the nature of a powder, the above method is used; if a grain, the grain is sprinkled into the hot milk, then boiled. Casserole of Rice* Two ounces ground rice. Few drops of flavouring. One pint milk. Two small eggs. One ounce castor sugar. Heat the milk, then sprinkle in the rice, and stir over the fire until the rice is cooked. Beat the eggs, and add them, the sugar, and the flavouring to the rice; then pour this into a well-greased border mould dusted with a little rice flour (this enables the rice to turn out more easily), and steam very gently till firm (about thirty minutes). When ready turn out, and fill the centre with stewed fruit or jam. This casserole can be served either hot or cold. Dutch Flummery* Three-quarter ounce gelatine. Six ounces sugar. Three yolks of eggs. Two lemons, rind and juice. Half a pint sherry. Half a pint water. Put all the ingredients except the yolks into a saucepan, stir till the gelatine is melted, and allow this to infuse forio8 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. about ten minutes; then pour on to the yolks. Strain back into the pan, which must be rinsed, and stir over the fire until the yolks are cooked. Pour into a basin ; mould when cold. When set, turn out. Blancmange* Half a pint milk. One gill cream. One ounce castor sugar. Three-quarters of an ounce gelatine. Flavouring. Dissolve the gelatine in the milk. Half whip the cream and strain the milk into it, sweeten and flavour. When cool, pour into a wet mould. Fig Custard* Quarter-pound figs. Two yolks and one white of egg- One dessertspoonful sugar. A little vanilla essence. Quarter-ounce gelatine. Half a pint milk. Stew the figs in a little water until tender, then chop them finely. Heat the milk in a saucepan. Mix the sugar and eggs well together, and pour over them the hot milk; strain into the rinsed pan and stir until thick, but do not boil. Pour the custard into a bowl, add the figs and the gelatine dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of water, and the flavouring. When cool, pour the mixture into a mould, which should be first rinsed in cold water. Put it into a cool place. When firm, turn out. Chocolate Shape* Three ounces of stick choco- late. Three gills milk. Sugar to sweeten. A few drops vanilla essence. Half an ounce gelatine (light weight). Two yolks of eggs. Break the chocolate in pieces and dissolve it in the milk, then add the gelatine and carefully dissolve it. Put the yolksPUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 109 into a basin and beat them slightly, and pour on to them the chocolate and milk; then strain this back into the pan, which must be rinsed, and cook over a gentle heat until the yolks thicken. Care must be taken not to allow this to boil else it will curdle. When cooked, pour into a basin; add the sugar and vanilla. When cold, pour into a china mould; and when set, turn out. Casserole of Prunes* Half a pound prunes. Half a pint water. Half an ounce sugar. Half an ounce gelatine. Rind and juice of half a lemon. One gill cream; sugar; flavour- ing. Wash the prunes and soak in half a pint of water overnight with the sugar. Put these into a pan, with the lemon rind, and stew till tender. Strain the prunes from the liquid, remove the stones, and chop them. Measure the liquid, and if reduced, add water to make up the half-pint. Put it into a pan and dissolve the gelatine in it, add the lemon juice, and strain over the prunes. When almost cold, put it into a wet casserole mould; and when firm, turn out. Fill up the centre with whipped cream, and decorate with one or two glace cherries. Stewed Apples* One pound apples. | Four ounces sugar. Half a pint cold water. Put the sugar and water into a lined pan, and when boiling skim thoroughly, and boil this syrup briskly for about five minutes. Wipe, peel, quarter, and core the apples, and put them at once into the syrup and simmer gently till tender; then dish up, and pour the syrup over. Note.—This method is employed for stewing fresh fruits.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. I 10 Stewed Figs. Half a pound figs. | Four ounces brown sugar. Half a pint cold water. Wash the figs, remove the stalks, put them into a basin with the sugar and water, and soak overnight if possible (this soaking softens the figs), then cook till tender (about thirty minutes). Note.—This method is employed for stewing dried fruits— prunes, etc. Apple Charlotte. One and a half pounds apples. One ounce butter. Two yolks of eggs. Two ounces of sugar. Grated rind of lemon. Juice of half a lemon. Two or three slices of bread. Clarified butter. Peel, core, and slice the apples. Put them in a pan with the butter, sugar, rind and juice of lemon, and stew till soft. Rub this through a hair sieve and add the yolks, and heat all together. Cut the bread into rounds the size of a shilling, and cut two large rounds to fit the top and bottom of the tin to be used. Dip the bread in the clarified butter, and place a large round at the foot of the tin. Arrange the small rounds in layers round the tin, lining it to the top. Fill the centre with the apple mixture, and place the other large round of bread on the top. Twist a greased paper over, place a saucer with a weight in it on the top, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. Turn on to a hot dish. If any mixture remains after filling, heat it and dish round the charlotte. Sweet Omelet. Two fresh eggs. One dessertspoonful castor One tablespoonful heated jam. sugar. Have an omelet pan “proved” and well greased with clarified butter. Break the eggs and separate the yolks fromPUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. hi the whites. Beat the yolks and sugar together till creamy. Beat the whites stiffly, and fold them lightly into the yolks and sugar. Pour this mixture into the omelet pan, and shake the pan over a gentle heat until the omelet is beginning to set and rise; then place the pan in a steady oven, and cook until the omelet is well risen and of a light brown colour. When ready, turn the omelet out on to a piece of sugared paper, put the jam in the centre, fold the omelet over, and serve at once.EGGS, SAVOURIES, AND BREAK- FAST DISHES. Curried Eggs* Two hard-boiled eggs. One small onion. Half-ounce butter. Small piece of apple. Quarter-ounce rice flour. One teaspoonful lemon juice. Half-teaspoonful curry pow- Pinch of salt. der. One gill stock or water. Half-teaspoonful curry paste. Two ounces Patna rice. Boil the eggs for thirteen minutes, and put into cold water. Remove the shell, and cut the eggs into neat sections. Make the curry. Melt the butter, fry the onion chopped, then add the chopped apple. Fry for two minutes longer, then add the flour and curry powder. Fry these for two to three minutes, and add the stock by degrees. Add the paste, lemon juice, and salt. Boil up and skim. Simmer slowly for half an hour. Put half of the egg into the sauce, and when thoroughly heated dish in a hot dish, and place the rest of the egg round the dish. Serve with boiled rice. (See page 75.) Poached Eggs* Two fresh eggs. Two pieces buttered toast. Half-teaspoonful salt. Half-teaspoonful vinegar. Water. Put water, salt, and vinegar into a shallow pan, and bring to boiling-point. Break the egg carefully into a wet cup,EGGS, SAVOURIES, BREAKFAST DISHES. 113 and slip it into the water. Poach by simmering very slowly for about two minutes, till the white is set. Drain on a fish slice, and dish on a square of toast. After the first egg has begun to set, the second may be put in the water. Scrambled Eggs* Two eggs. Two pieces of buttered toast. Two tablespoonfuls milk. Half-ounce butter. Pepper and salt. Parsley. Beat the eggs and milk together, and add the seasonings. Melt the butter in a pan, and pour in the eggs and milk. Stir quickly over the fire till the egg begins to set, then pile on pieces of buttered toast. Garnish with parsley. Savoury Omelet* Two eggs. Half-ounce butter. Half-teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pinch of powdered herbs. Pepper and salt. Small piece of finely-chopped onion. Beat the eggs slightly, and add parsley, herbs, pepper, and salt. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, make it hot, and fry the onion for a few seconds. Pour in the eggs, and stir over the fire till the omelet begins to set; then flatten it out over the pan. When all has set to a creamy consistency, fold in three, bringing the edges up towards the centre. Turn on to a hot dish, garnish with a sprig of parsley, and serve at once. Note.—Some chopped ham or meat may be sprinkled on the omelet before folding, and folded in the inside. Fried Bacon and Eggs* Quarter-pound bacon. Two eggs. Remove rust and rind from the bacon, and cut it in thin slices. Place it in a cold frying-pan, and put it over the fire. (1,293) 8PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 114 When the fat becomes transparent, turn the bacon and fry on the other side till it is just beginning to brown slightly. Lift on to a hot dish. Break the eggs first into a cup, then slip them gently into the frying-pan. Fry till the white is set, then lift out and dish on the top of the bacon. Grilled Kidneys and Bacon. Three sheep-kidneys. | Three rashers of bacon. Three rounds of fried bread. MaItre d’H6tel Butter. Half-ounce butter. Lemon juice. One teaspoonful parsley. Pepper and salt. Make the maitre d’hbtel butter by working all the in- gredients together with a broad-pointed knife, and set it aside to harden. Remove the skin from the kidneys, wash and dry well. Split each almost in two, and remove the core. Run a skewer through each kidney, and place them between the greased bars of a double gridiron. Place this over a clear fire, and cook till the kidneys are a nice brown colour, then turn the gridiron and cook the other side. Time—five to seven minutes. Roll up each slice of bacon and place it on a skewer. Bake in a moderate oven till crisp (about five minutes). Dish each kidney on a round of fried bread, and place a pat of the butter on each. Serve the bacon piled in the centre of the dish. Macaroni and Cheese. Four ounces macaroni. Three ounces grated cheese. Half-ounce butter. Half-ounce flour. About half-pint milk. Half-teaspoonful made mus- tard. Cayenne pepper and salt. Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water from forty to fifty minutes till soft, and cut it in pieces one inch long.EGGS, SAVOURIES, BREAKFAST DISHES. 115 Make a white sauce. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook these for a minute; then add the milk by degrees, stirring and beating the sauce till smooth. Boil for five minutes, then add the macaroni. Cool the mixture slightly, then add half of the cheese and the other seasonings. Turn this into a greased dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top, and brown in a hot oven. Macaroni and Tomatoes. Half a pint tomato sauce One quarter-pound macaroni, (see page 67). Sippets of fried bread. Cook the macaroni, and cut it in pieces one inch long. Heat the sauce thoroughly; add the macaroni. Simmer for a few minutes. Turn into a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of fried bread. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes. One ounce macaroni. Half an ounce butter. Half an ounce flour. One and a half ounces grated cheese. Half a gill milk. Half a yolk of egg. Pinches pepper, salt, cayenne. Beaten egg. Bread crumbs. Cook the macaroni and chop it finely. Melt the butter; add the flour, then the milk. Stir over the fire till the mixture leaves the sides of the pan. Add the macaroni to this sauce; also the seasonings, grated cheese, and yolk of egg. Beat all together, cook for a few seconds, and turn on to a plate to cool. Form into croquettes. Egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat till of a golden brown colour. Drain well, and put a small piece of macaroni at the end of each croquette. Dish, and garnish with fried parsley.116 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Ham Toast Four ounces cooked ham. Half an ounce butter. Dessertspoonful of cream. One yolk of egg. Pinches of pepper, salt, coralline pepper. and Some thin rounds of toast. Melt the butter in a pan; add the ham, chopped finely. Season well, and add the yolk and cream. Stir this over a gentle heat, to make it hot without curdling. Pile the mixture on rounds of toast, and sprinkle with coralline pepper. Welsh Rarebit Three ounces grated cheese. One teaspoonful made mus- tard. One ounce butter. About one teaspoonful milk. Pinch of pepper. Melt the butter; add the cheese, mustard, milk, and seasonings. Stir over the fire till these are melted, then pour it over a piece of buttered toast. Scotch Woodcock* Two slices of toast. Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Two anchovies. One ounce butter. One teaspoonful of anchovy paste or essence. Pinches of cayenne and white pepper. Custard. Two raw yolks. One dessertspoonful chopped One gill hot milk. parsley. Pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the anchovies, and rub these, with the hard-boiled yolks, through a sieve. Add the butter, anchovy paste, and seasonings, and work all together till quite smooth. Sandwich this between the slices of toast,EGGS, SAVOURIES, BREAKFAST DISHES. 117 and cut into fingers. Arrange these on a dish. Beat the yolks, add the milk, stir over the fire till it thickens, then season thoroughly, and pour the custard over the toast. To make Tea* Have the water freshly boiled. Heat the teapot thoroughly, and dry it. Put in the tea, allowing one teaspoonful for each person and one extra teaspoonful. As soon as the water boils pour it over the tea leaves, and leave the tea to infuse for five minutes, but not longer, or the tea will be bitter. To make Coffee. One heaped tablespoonful of Half a pint of freshly-boiled Mocha coffee. water. Have the coffee-jug hot and the water freshly boiled. Put the coffee into the jug, pour in the water, and infuse for ten minutes by the side of the fire. Strain, reheat if necessary, and use. To make Cocoa. One teaspoonful cocoa. | One teacupful milk. Measure the cocoa into a cup. Boil the milk, and pour it over the cocoa. Rinse the pan, and pour the cocoa back. Boil for a minute or two, then serve. Sugar may be added. Chocolate. Half a pint milk. One teaspoonful castor sugar. One ounce chocolate. One egg. Put the milk and chocolate into a rinsed pan, and stir over the fire till the chocolate dissolves. Beat up the egg,PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. ii8 and pour over it the boiling chocolate. Put it into a jug, and place the jug in a pan of boiling water, and stir till thick and frothy. Add sugar. To make Toast. Slices of thinly-cut stale bread. Put the slice of bread on to a toasting-fork, and hold for a few seconds before a clear red fire. This dries the bread. Turn and dry the other side; then toast each side of the bread till of a golden brown colour. Cut it into neat pieces, place in a toast-rack, and serve hot and crisp. If much toast is to be prepared, keep the pieces just toasted crisp and hot till required.BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS Bread. To make a quartern loaf— Three and a half pounds flour. To every pound of flour one teaspoonful salt. One teaspoonful castor sugar. One and a half pints tepid water. One ounce yeast. Sieve the flour and salt into a large warm bowl. Cream the yeast and sugar together with a wooden spoon until liquid, and add the tepid water. Make a well in the centre of the flour, and strain in the yeast and water. Sprinkle a little of the flour over, cover the basin with a cloth, and set to rise in a warm place for twenty minutes till the surface is covered with bubbles. This is called “ setting the sponge.” Work in all the flour with the hand, adding more tepid water if necessary to make a firm, elastic dough, and knead thoroughly. Cover again with a cloth, and set to rise in a warm place for two hours. When well risen, knead the dough lightly on a floured board, and form into loaves. Put in a warm place to prove for fifteen minutes; then bake in a hot oven for thirty minutes to one hour, according to size of loaf. When ready, the bread will be well risen, will feel light, and when tapped underneath will sound hollow.120 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Brown Bread. Three pounds wheat flour. To every pound of flour one teaspoonful salt. One ounce yeast. One and a half pints tepid water. One half-pound household flour. One teaspoonful castor sugar. Prepare and bake as for white bread, but do not sieve the wheaten flour. Buns. One half-pound flour. One ounce yeast. One teaspoonful castor sugar. Three gills milk. Sieve the flour into a warm bowl. Cream the yeast and sugar, and add the milk lukewarm. Strain and add to the flour gradually, stirring with a wooden spoon to make a smooth batter. Cover with a cloth, and set to rise in a warm place for an hour. Have ready also— One and a quarter pounds flour. One-quarter pound butter. One-quarter pound sultanas. One - quarter pound castor sugar. Two ounces candied peel. Two eggs. Rub the butter into the flour, prepare the fruit, and mix all the dry ingredients. When the sponge in the first bowl has risen, beat in the dry ingredients from the second basin with the beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly, and beat with the hand for about five minutes. Cover, and set to rise again in a warm place for one and a half hours. Form into small buns, and place on a greased and floured baking-tray. Put in a warm place to prove for ten to fifteen minutes. Bake in a hot oven for twenty to thirty minutes. When ready, brush with milk and sugar to glaze.121 BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. Yorkshire Tea Cake* Three-quarters pound flour. Half an ounce yeast. One teaspoonful castor sugar. One ounce butter. One and a half gills milk. One egg. Sieve the flour into a warm bowl. Cream the yeast and sugar; melt the butter, add to it the milk, and make it tepid. Beat the egg, add the tepid milk, and mix it with the yeast. Strain into the flour, and mix to a dough with the hand; turn it on to a floured board, and divide it into two or three pieces. Knead slightly, and make each piece smooth on the top, and drop into a greased ring on a baking-sheet. Cover, and set in a warm place for one hour till the mixture has risen to the top of the tins. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. While hot, glaze with milk and sugar. Dough Cake. Half a quartern of dough. I Two ounces candied peel. Quarter-pound castor sugar. Two ounces butter. Quarter-pound sultanas. | Two eggs. Put the dough into a bowl, and add to it the sultanas, shredded peel, sugar, eggs, and the butter in small pieces. Beat well together with the hand until the ingredients are well mixed. Turn into a greased and floured tin. Put in a warm place to prove for twenty to thirty minutes. Bake in a hot oven for thirty to forty minutes. When ready, glaze with milk and sugar. Galettes. Half a pound flour. I Half an ounce castor sugar. Half an ounce yeast. 1 One gill milk. Sieve the flour, cream the yeast and sugar, add the tepid milk, strain it into the flour, and beat this mixture till smooth.122 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Cover it with a cloth, and put in a warm place till well risen (about one hour). Have ready— Half a pound flour. | Four ounces butter. Four small eggs. Beat the eggs and the butter, broken in small pieces, into the flour; then incorporate them with the risen dough. Let it rise for one hour. Form into oval-shaped cakes; prove for above fifteen minutes. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Brush with a little clarified butter. Savarin. Quarter of a pound flour. Quarter of an ounce yeast. Quarter of a teaspoonful sugar. Half a gill milk. Two eggs. Two and a half ounces butter. Sieve the flour into a bowl. Cream the yeast and sugar till liquid, add the tepid milk, and strain it into the flour. Cover with a cloth; put the bowl in a warm place to allow the sponge to rise (about thirty minutes). When risen, work in the flour, and beat in the eggs and the butter broken in small pieces. Beat until the mixture drops from the fingers. Grease a mould with clarified butter, dust it with rice flour, and put in the mixture. The mould should be three-quarters full. Prove in a warm place until the mixture has risen to the top of the tin. Bake in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Turn out, and pour over the following syrup :— Syrup for Savarin. Four ounces sugar. Two tablespoonfuls rum. Half a pint water. Juice of half a lemon. Boil the water and sugar about seven minutes until it forms a syrup. Add the rum and lemon juice, and it is ready for use. Note.—Baba. Use savarin mixture, with the addition of one ounce of currants, and bake in small tins. When cooked soak in syrup.BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. 123 Vienna Bread. One pound flour. One teaspoonful salt. One ounce butter. Half an ounce yeast. Half a pint milk. One egg. One teaspoonful castor sugar. Sieve flour and salt into a bowl, and rub in the butter. Cream the yeast and sugar until liquid. Add the tepid milk, and strain it into the middle of the flour; strain in also the beaten egg. Mix together to a smooth dough. Cover with a cloth, and put in a warm place till well risen (about one hour). Form into fancy shapes, place on a greased baking- sheet, and prove for about fifteen minutes. Bake in a quick oven for about twenty to thirty minutes. Brush over with clarified butter. Plain Plum Cake. Half-pound flour. Quarter-pound butter. Quarter-pound sugar. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Half a teaspoonful allspice. Two ounces Valencia raisins. Two ounces currants. Two ounces peel. Two eggs. A little milk. Sieve the flour. Clean and prepare the fruit, and mix with it the spice and one teaspoonful of flour. Cream the butter and sugar; add the flour and the eggs by degrees, beating thoroughly. Add the fruit and the baking-powder mixed with the last spoonful of flour. The mixture should be of a consistency to drop easily from the spoon, so if necessary add a little milk. Turn into a prepared cake-tin. Place in a hot oven till risen. Moderate the heat, and bake steadily for about one and a half hours.124 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Sultana Cake* Grated rind of half a lemon. Two ounces candied peel. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Two eggs. Half-pound flour. Quarter-pound butter. Quarter-pound castor sugar. Quarter-pound sultanas. A little milk. Prepare and bake as for Plum Cake (page 123). German Pound Cake. Ten ounces flour. Eight ounces butter. Eight ounces castor sugar. Eight ounces sultanas. Four ounces peel. Grated rind of one lemon. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Five eggs. Prepare and bake as for Plum Cake (page 123). Scotch Seed Cake. Fourteen ounces flour. Eight ounces sugar. Eight ounces mixed peel (lemon, orange, citron). Six eggs. Prepare and bake as for Plum Cake (page 123). Eight ounces butter. Four ounces almonds. One dessertspoonful baking- powder. Six ounces flour. Two ounces rice flour. Four ounces castor sugar. Four ounces butter. Two ounces currants. Luncheon Cake. Half an ounce candied peel. Pinch of nutmeg. Two eggs. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. About half a gill milk. Sieve the flour and rub in the butter. Clean the sultanas, shred the peel, and mix all the dry ingredients. Beat the125 BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. Prepare and bake as for Madeira Cake. eggs, add the milk, mix with the dry ingredients, and beat well. Turn into a prepared cake-tin, and bake in a steady oven for one and a half to two hours. Currant Cake. Half-pound flour. Three ounces butter. Four ounces castor sugar. Four ounces currants. Two eggs. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. About half a gill milk. Prepare and bake as for Luncheon Cake. Madeira Cake. Eight ounces flour. Five ounces butter. Five ounces castor sugar. Grated lemon rind. Four eggs. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Citron peel. Sieve the flour, cream the butter and sugar, add the grated lemon rind. Add the flour and eggs by degrees, and beat well. Add the baking-powder with the last spoonful of flour. Turn into a greased and papered tin ; place the citron peel on the top. Place in a moderate oven, and bake steadily for one and a half hours. Carraway Seed Cake. Half a pound flour. Quarter of a pound butter. Quarter of a pound castor sugar. Two eggs. One dessertspoonful carraway seeds. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. A little milk.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 126 Rice Cake* Six ounces rice flour. One teaspoonful of baking- Three ounces flour. powder. Four ounces butter. Two eggs. Four ounces sugar. Lemon essence. Prepare and bake as for Madeira Cake (page 125). Half a pound flour. Four ounces sugar. One teaspoonful of baking powder. Spice Cake. Three ounces butter. One and a half teaspoonfuls of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Two eggs. Prepare and bake as for Madeira Cake (page 125). Cocoanut Cake. Six ounces flour. Three ounces butter. Four ounces castor sugar. Three ounces cocoanut. Two small eggs. Small teaspoonful of baking- powder. A little milk. Prepare and bake as for Madeira Cake (page 125). Cornflour Cake. Six ounces cornflour. Six ounces butter. Six ounces castor sugar. Three eggs. Prepare and bake as for Madeira Cake (page 125). Two ounces flour. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. A little vanilla essence.127 BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. Prepare and bake as for Soda Cake. Chocolate Cake* Four ounces flour. Three ounces grated chocolate. Three ounces sugar. Three ounces butter. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Three small eggs. Vanilla essence. Cream the butter and sugar together. Add the eggs and flour by degrees; mix well; add the chocolate; then the baking-powder in the last tablespoonful of flour, and the vanilla essence. Pour the mixture into a greased and pre- pared tin; bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Soda Cake. One pound flour. Six ounces butter. Eight ounces sugar. Eight ounces sultanas. Two eggs. Air Half an ounce ground ginger. Half an ounce ground cinna- mon. One teaspoonful bicarbonate of soda. : milk. Sieve the flour; rub in the butter, and mix all the dry ingredients together. Beat the eggs, and pour them into the middle of the dry ingredients. Dissolve the soda with a little milk, pour it into the eggs, and beat all together. Turn the mixture into a prepared tin, and bake in a steady oven for about one and a half hours. Buttermilk Cake. Three-quarters of a pound flour. Quarter of a pound butter. Quarter of a pound sugar. Three ounces raisins. Three ounces currants. Pinch of spice. Three-quarters of a teaspoon- ful bicarbonate of soda. Three-quarters of a teaspoon- ful cream of tartar. About three gills buttermilk.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 128 One pound flour. Four ounces butter. Five ounces syrup. Five ounces treacle. Two ounces sultanas. One gill milk. Gingerbread* Two and a half ounces castor sugar. One dessertspoonful ground ginger. Half a teaspoonful baking- soda. Two eggs. Sieve the flour; add the ginger and sultanas. Put the syrup, treacle, sugar, and butter into a pan, and melt them over the fire, and add to the flour. Heat the milk, and add the baking-soda to it. Stir this into the mixture and beat very thoroughly. Pour into a prepared tin, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours or longer. Sponge Cake* Four eggs. Three and a half ounces flour, Four ounces castor sugar. dried and sieved. Grease a cake-tin, and dust it with one teaspoonful of castor sugar mixed with one teaspoonful of rice flour. Beat the eggs and sugar over hot water till creamy; then quickly mix in the flour. Half fill the prepared tin, and bake the cake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Three eggs; their weight in flour, butter, and castor sugar. Swiss Roll* A little milk. Half a teaspoonful baking- powder. Two tablespoonfuls jam. Sieve the flour, cream the butter and sugar, add the flour and eggs by degrees, and beat well. Mix the baking-BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. 129 powder with the last spoonful of flour. Turn the mixture on to a baking-tray which is well greased and lined with paper. Spread evenly with a knife, and bake in a quick oven for seven to ten minutes. Heat the jam. When the cake is ready, turn it out on to a sugared paper. Spread the jam over, and roll up. White Sandwich Cake* Four ounces flour. Two ounces cornflour. Five ounces butter. Six ounces castor sugar. Four stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. One gill milk. Sieve the flour, and cream the butter and sugar. Add milk and flour by degrees, and beat well, mixing the baking- powder with the last spoonful of flour. Fold in the stiffly- beaten whites. Pour into a well-greased Yorkshire tin, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Queen Six ounces flour. Four ounces butter. Four ounces castor sugar. Two ounces sultanas. One ounce candied peel. Cakes* Two eggs. A small teaspoonful baking- powder. A few drops of flavouring. Milk if necessary. Sieve the flour; clean the sultanas and shred the peel, and mix a teaspoonful of flour with the fruit. Cream the butter and sugar; add the flour and eggs by degrees, and beat well; then stir in the fruit. Add the baking-powder with the last spoonful of flour, and a little milk if necessary to make the mixture of a dropping consistency. Half fill some small well- greased tins. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. 9PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 130 Rock Buns. Half a pound flour. Four ounces sugar. Four ounces currants. Three ounces butter. One ounce candied peel. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. Pinch of ginger or spice. One egg. A little milk. Sieve the flour, and rub in the butter; add the currants cleaned, the peel shredded, the baking-powder, sugar, and spice. Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly. Beat the egg, and add to it a little milk. Add it to the flour, and mix to a stiff dough. Place in rough heaps on a greased baking-tray, and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Half a pound flour. Four ounces sugar. Three ounces butter. One egg. Seed Buns. One teaspoonful of baking- powder. One teaspoonful of carraway seeds. A little milk. Sieve the flour, and rub in the butter; add the sugar, baking-powder, and carraway seeds. Beat the egg, and add to it about one tablespoonful of milk. Mix the dry ingre- dients to a firm dough, form into small buns, place on a greased tray, and bake them in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Small Rice Cakes. Four ounces rice flour. Two ounces flour. Two ounces castor sugar. Two ounces butter. Small teaspoonful of baking- powder. Two eggs. A little milk. Cream the butter and sugar, add the flour and eggs by degrees, and beat well. Mix the baking-powder with the lastBREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. 131 spoonful of flour, and if necessary add a little milk. Fill some small greased tins two-thirds full, and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Lemon Jumbles. Eight ounces flour. Two ounces butter. Three ounces castor sugar. Half a teaspoonful baking- soda. Half a teaspoonful cream of tartar. Rind and juice of one lemon. One egg. A little milk. Rub the butter into the flour, and mix all the dry ingredi- ents. Make into a dough with the egg beaten, the lemon juice, and a little milk. Knead lightly. Divide the dough into small pieces, and roll each piece under the hand into a long strip, then twist up into a round. Place on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Cocoanut Buns. Three-quarters pound flour. Small half an ounce cream of tartar. Small quarter an ounce baking- soda. Quarter a pound desiccated cocoanut. Quarter a pound castor sugar. One egg. Three oz. butter. One gill milk. Sieve the flour, the cream of tartar, and the baking-soda through a wire sieve. Beat the egg, and add the milk to it. Cream the butter and sugar, and add the liquid and flour by degrees to make rather a stiff mixture. Place this in rough heaps on a greased tray, and bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Shrewsbury Biscuits. Eight ounces flour. 1 Four ounces castor sugar. Four ounces butter. | One teaspoonful lemon juice. One egg.132 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Cream the butter and sugar, and add the grated lemon rind. Beat the egg, and add it gradually with the flour to the butter and sugar. Mix well with the hand. Turn on to a floured board, and roll it out thinly. Prick the dough, and cut it into rounds. Place these on a greased baking-tin, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes till of a pale brown colour. Oatmeal Biscuits. Five ounces flour. Seven ounces oatmeal. Four ounces butter. One egg. Quarter a teaspoonful baking- powder. One teaspoonful sugar. Half a teaspoonful salt. Rub the butter into the flour, and mix all the dry ingre- dients. Add the egg beaten, with a little water, and mix to a stiff dough. Turn on to a floured board, roll out thinly, and prick well. Cut into rounds or squares, place on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Butter Biscuits. Quarter a pound flour. | Two ounces butter. A little water. Sieve the flour into a basin, and rub in the butter. Mix this to an elastic dough with a little water; turn it on to a floured board, and roll it out thinly. Prick well, and cut it into rounds. Place the biscuits on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven till crisp (about ten minutes). Milk Biscuits. Quarter a pound flour. Half a teaspoonful baking- Half an ounce butter. powder. Half a gill milk. Sieve the flour and baking-powder into a basin; put the milk and butter into a pan, and when the butter has meltedBREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. 133 pour it into the flour, and mix together to a smooth paste. Turn on to a floured board, roll it out thinly, and prick well. Cut into rounds, place them on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Cheese Biscuits. Four ounces flour. Two ounces butter. One ounce grated Cheddar cheese. Pinch of salt One ounce grated Parmesan cheese. Pinch of cayenne. A little beaten yolk. A little water. Sieve the flour, rub in the butter, add the grated cheese, and mix all the dry ingredients; bind with the yolk and water to form a stiff paste. Knead lightly, roll out thinly, prick well, and cut into rounds. Place on a greased tin, and bake in a quick oven for seven to ten minutes. Two ounces syrup. One and three-quarter ounces flour. One and three-quarter ounces castor sugar. Brandy Wafers. Half a teaspoonful ginger. Two ounces butter. Half a teaspoonful lemon rind. Half a teaspoonful brandy. ground grated Melt the syrup, sugar, and butter in a saucepan; then stir in the flour, ginger, lemon rind, and brandy. Mix the ingre- dients well together, and drop the mixture in small teaspoon- fuls on to a greased baking-sheet about three inches apart. Bake in a cool oven from seven to ten minutes. When baked and slightly set, roll up at once.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. *34 Ayrshire Four ounces flour. Four ounces rice flour. Four ounces castor sugar. Shortbread. Four ounces butter. Half an egg beaten. Two tablespoonfuls cream. Sieve the flour and rice flour into a basin, and rub in the butter; mix in the sugar, and bind the mixture to a stiff consistency with the egg and cream. Roll out thinly, prick well with a fork, and cut out in fancy shapes. Place the bis- cuits on a greased and papered tin, and bake in a steady oven for about fifteen minutes until of a golden-brown colour. Cool the biscuits on a wire sieve. Shortbread. Four ounces flour. I Four ounces butter. Two ounces rice flour. I Two ounces castor sugar. Sieve the flour, rice flour, and sugar into a basin ; add the butter, and work all together with the hand until of the con- sistency of short crust. Form into a round cake either with the hand on a pastry-board or in a shortbread mould. Place the cake on a greased and papered tin, prick it well, and bake it in a good steady oven till beginning to colour; then moderate the heat, and allow it to crisp off slowly for about one hour. Half a pound flour. Half a teaspoonful baking- soda. Soda Scones. Half a teaspoonful cream of tartar. Quarter a teaspoonful salt. About one gill buttermilk. Sieve the flour, soda, cream of tartar, and salt; add enough buttermilk to make a soft dough. Turn on to a floured board; knead lightly, and roll out half an inch in thickness.BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. 135 Cut in rounds or cut across in four. Place on a hot girdle, and bake steadily till well risen and of a light-brown colour underneath. Turn and bake on second side till quite dry in the centre. Afternoon Tea Scones* Half a pound flour. One and a half ounces butter. Half a teaspoonful baking- soda. Half a teaspoonful cream of tartar. Pinch of salt. Buttermilk. One teaspoonful castor sugar- Sieve the dry ingredients, and rub in the butter; add enough buttermilk to make a soft, elastic dough. Turn on to a floured board, knead lightly, and roll out. Cut in rounds, place on a hot girdle, and bake steadily till well risen and of a light-brown colour underneath. Turn and bake on the second side till quite cooked. Note.—These scones may be placed on a greased tray and baked in a quick oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Dropped Scones Half a teaspoonful baking- soda. Half a teaspoonful cream of tartar. Half a pound flour. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Buttermilk. One egg. Sieve the dry ingredients into a basin; make a well in the centre, and drop in the egg and a little buttermilk. Beat well together with the back of a wooden spoon till perfectly smooth, then add enough buttermilk to make a thick creamy batter. Grease a hot girdle, and drop on the mixture in small rounds. When the surface rises in bubbles, turn the scones over with a knife and brown the other side.136 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Luncheon Scones. One pound flour. Three ounces butter. Light half an ounce cream of tartar. One ounce castor sugar. Light quarter an ounce baking- soda. Half a pint milk. Sieve the flour, sugar, cream of tartar, and baking-soda into a basin; rub in the butter, and mix to a soft dough with the milk. Turn on to a floured board, and knead lightly. Roll out into a round about half an inch in thick- ness. Cut in eight sections, and bake in a hot oven for thirty minutes. Note.—One ounce sultanas may be added. Potato Scones* Half a pound cold potatoes. About half a gill sweet milk. About two ounces flour. Pinch of salt. Mash the potatoes, and add the salt; knead as much flour into this as it will take up, and add enough milk to make a stiff dough. Roll out very thinly on a floured board. Cut into rounds, and prick with a fork. Bake on a hot girdle for about five minutes, turning when half cooked. When baked, butter the scones, roll up, and serve very hot. Oatcakes* Four ounces fine oatmeal. One teaspoonful melted drip- ping or bacon fat. Pinch of salt. Pinch of baking-soda. Hot water. Mix the oatmeal, soda, and salt. Make a well in the centre; add the melted dripping and enough hot water to make a soft mixture. Rub plenty of meal on to the baking-BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS. 137 board; turn out the mixture and form into a smooth ball; knead and roll out as thinly as possible. Rub with meal to make the cakes white, and cut across in four or in eight pieces. Place on a hot girdle, and bake steadily till the cakes curl up at the edges. Toast till slightly brown before a clear fire or in a moderate oven.JAMS, JELLIES, ETC, Jams and Jellies. 1. The fruit must be dry and in good condition. 2. The sugar used must be cane sugar, as it keeps better. 3. The jelly-pan (a brass pan is the best) must be absolutely clean, and rinsed before using. 4. A wooden or silver spoon should be used for stirring. 5. The jars must be free from cracks, well washed, scalded, and heated before using. 6. The jelly must be covered when cold, and stored in a dry, airy cupboard. Strawberry Jam. Six pounds of strawberries Half a pint red or black (Scotch). currant juice. Six and a half pounds preserving sugar. Carefully wipe and pick the strawberries. Put the sugar and fruit juice into the preserving pan, and stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved; then add the strawberries, and stir gently till boiling. Skim thoroughly, and allow to boil steadily for about thirty minutes, when it can be tested by putting a little on a plate. If it firms, fill up the pots.139 JAMS, JELLIES, ETC. Raspberry Jam. The recipe is the same as for strawberry jam, but test if firming after twenty minutes’ boiling. Note.—This method is employed when making small fruits into jam. Greengage Jam. Six pounds greengages. I Six and a half pounds pre- Half a pint water. I serving sugar. Wipe and stone the plums. Break half of the stones, and remove the kernels; blanch and skin them. Tie the rest of the stones in muslin. Dissolve the sugar in the water, and put in the plums, and the stones tied in muslin. Stir till boiling. While boiling, skim thoroughly. Test after thirty minutes’ boiling, and, if firming, add the kernels. Boil well up, and dish. Note.—(1.) The kernels may be left out if desired. (2.) All large fruits, such as mussel plums, damsons, etc., are prepared in this way. Rhubarb Jam. Six pounds rhubarb. | Six pounds sugar. Six ounces whole ginger. Wash and dry the rhubarb, and cut in pieces one inch long. Crush the ginger, and tie it up in a piece of muslin. Put rhubarb, sugar, and ginger into the preserving pan, and stir till it boils. Skim well, and test after twenty minutes’ boiling. If firming, put it into jars. Preserved Rhubarb. Six pounds rhubarb (after I Six pounds preserving sugar, preparing). | Six ounces whole ginger. Half a pint water.140 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Wash and dry the rhubarb, and cut in pieces one and a half inches long. Put it into a strong basin with the j ; sugar and ginger in alternate layers. Pour on the water, and allow this to stand covered for twenty-four hours. Pour off the liquid. Put it into the pan, bring to the boil, and add the rhubarb and ginger. Boil steadily for forty minutes, skimming carefully. Test, and, if firming, put a lid on the pan, draw it to the side of the fire, and allow it to stand for fifteen minutes: this swells out the rhubarb. Put into jars. | Note.—Red Victoria rhubarb is best for preserving. For storing for winter use it should be preserved in early autumn. Black Currant Jelly* Wash the currants. Put them in a preserving pan, and ' cover with cold water. Bring to the boil, and simmer until the fruit is reduced to a pulp, then strain it through a jelly- bag. Proportions.—To every pint of juice allow one pound of sugar. Put the juice and sugar into the pan, stir till boiling. Skim well, and test after twenty minutes’ steady boiling. If firming, put into small pots. Note.—This method applies to nearly all kinds of jellies, such as green gooseberry, raspberry, apple, etc. Red Currant Jelly* First Method.—Wash the currants. Put them in a pre- serving pan with about one gill of water. Bring to the boil, and simmer till the fruit is reduced to a pulp, then allow to drip through a jelly-bag. Put the juice into a pan, and add sugar in the proportion of one pound of sugar to one pint of juice. Bring to the boil, skim well, and test after ten minutes’ steady boiling. If firming, dish up in small pots.JAMS, JELLIES, ETC. 141 Second Method.—Wash the currants, squeeze them in a coarse cloth with the hands till all the juice is extracted. Measure this into a preserving pan, and add one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Bring to the boil, skim well, and boil for exactly three minutes. Dish up in pots. Lemon Syrup. Two pounds loaf sugar. One and a half ounces citric Two lemons. acid. One quart boiling water. Peel the rind thinly from the lemons, and soak it in enough boiling water to cover it for half an hour. Put the sugar and citric acid in a basin, and pour the boiling water over them. When cold, add the juice of the lemons, strained, and the liquid from the rind. Put into bottles, and cork tightly. Lemon Curd. Three lemons. Half a pound of loaf sugar. Quarter of a pound of butter. Four yolks of eggs. Rub the sugar over the lemon rind to take off the zest. Melt the butter, and add the other ingredients. Cook till the mixture thickens, pour into strong bottles, cover tightly. Apple Chutney. Nine ounces apples. Six ounces Demerara sugar. Four ounces sultanas. Two ounces onions. One ounce almonds. Two teaspoonfuls of salt. One teaspoonful of ground ginger. One teaspoonful of white peppercorns. Half a teaspoonful of cori- ander seed. Two red chillies. Cayenne. Three-quarters of a pint of vinegar.142 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Prepare and chop the apples, sultanas, onions, and almonds. Put all the ingredients except the chillies into a lined sauce- pan, and simmer slowly for one and a half to two hours. Dish into glass jars, and place one chilli in each jar. Cover with parchment, use a tight-fitting cork, and seal with wax. Marmalade* About fourteen pounds of Seville oranges. Wash the oranges and peel the rind very thinly. Cut it into thin strips about one inch long, and tie these firmly in a piece of muslin. Take off most of the pith from the oranges; cut each orange into four. Put the fruit and the rind into a pan, and cover with cold water. Bring to the boil and simmer till quite tender (about two hours); strain through a cloth. To each pint of liquid allow one pound of sugar, and to each pound of strips allow one pound of sugar. Put the sugar, juice, and strips into the preserving pan, and when boiling, skim well. Boil briskly for forty minutes, test, and if firming, dish into pots.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Ordinary Beef-tea* One pint cold water to one pound lean beef. For a small quantity, one quarter-pound beef, one gill water. Remove all the skin and fat; shred the meat, put it into a thick jar, basin, or jug; pour the cold water over it, stir, cover it tightly with a lid or with paper; let it stand half an hour. Place it (still covered) in a pan of cold water (to come half-way up the jar). Simmer this for two or three hours, then pour the beef-tea off. Remove any fat floating on it by passing small pieces of kitchen paper or blotting- paper lightly over it. If not wanted immediately, let it cool, and warm as much as is wanted at a time, as beef-tea spoils when kept warm. If salt is permitted by the doctor, add it when the beef and water are set to stand for half an hour. A larger quantity of meat takes longer in proportion to cook. Newly-killed beef is the best for beef-tea, as it contains more juice than beef that has been kept. After the beef-tea is made do not throw the meat away; it may be used for various cheap dishes for which chopped meat is wanted, or it may be added to the stockpot. Quickly made Beef-tea* One pound lean beef. One pint cold water. Pinch of salt. Wipe and scrape down the beef, and allow it to stand in the water as for ordinary beef-tea; then turn it into a pan,PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. T44 and cook over a gentle heat until the liquid turns brown and the meat has a white appearance. Do not let the tea boil. Strain through a coarse strainer, remove any fat, and use as required. Raw Beef-tea. Two ounces lean beef. One gill water. Remove all skin and fat, mince the meat very small, put it into a basin or jug, pour the cold water over it, and let it stand for half an hour, then strain off the liquid and serve it. It should be made fresh each time it is wanted, as it soon becomes putrid. Raw beef-tea is sometimes given during teething, dysentery, and typhoid fever, but should not be given without a doctor’s orders. Raw beef-tea should, if possible, be given in a covered cup, as the appearance is not attractive. Essence of Beef. One quarter-pound lean beef. Remove all skin and fat, shred the meat very small, put it into a jar or jug, and cook as for ordinary beef-tea, omit- ting the water. Essence of beef takes from four to seven or eight hours to make, according to the quantity of meat. If wanted weaker, add hot water to the liquor when it is to be used. Mutton Broth. One pound neck or knuckle of mutton. One dessertspoonful whole rice or barley. Two pints cold water. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful salt. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and cut it in small pieces, removing skin and fat. Remove the marrow from the bone, and put the bone with the meat, water, and salt into a clean lined pan. Bring it slowly to the boil, andi45 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. remove all scum carefully. Simmer for three to four hours, skimming occasionally, then strain it through a fine strainer. When cold, remove all fat from the top, return the soup to a lined pan, and add to it the rice or barley (blanched). Cook this for about twenty minutes, and at the last add the parsley. Other thickening, such as arrowroot or crushed tapioca, may be used instead of rice. If liked, the blanched rice or barley may be added after the first skimming and cooked with the meat. Chicken or Veal Broth* Prepare in the same way as Mutton Broth, using chicken or veal instead of mutton. Restorative Soup* One pound knuckle of veal. One pound neck or knuckle of mutton. One pound shin of beef. Two quarts cold water. One teaspoonful salt. Put the water and salt into a strong pan. Wipe the meat, free it from fat, and cut it into small pieces; put these at once into the water. Remove marrow, skin, and fat from the bones, wash them well, and add them to the other ingredients. Bring slowly to the boil, skim if necessary, and simmer for three to four hours. Strain the soup through a hair sieve. When cold remove any fat, and reheat the soup. If desired, this soup may be thickened with (a) tapioca, sago, rice, (3) arrowroot, cornflour, etc., allowing one tea- spoonful of grain to half a pint of stock. Four ounces white (either sole, haddock, or whiting). Half an ounce butter. Half an ounce bread crumbs. (1,293) Half a gill milk. Half a gill cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. One beaten white of egg. Pepper and salt. Fish Cream* fish 10146 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the crumbs and milk, and cook until thick, and turn the sauce into a mortar. Wipe and shred the fish finely, add it to the sauce, and pound them well together; then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Season well. Add the cream and the stiffly-beaten white of egg. Turn the mixture into a greased basin or mould, cover with greased paper, and steam very gently for thirty to forty minutes. When firm, turn the cream on to a hot dish. If liked, it may be coated with a white sauce. Chicken or Veal Cream. Made in the same way as Fish Cream, but the meat must be passed through the mincing machine before it is pounded. Four ounces white fish. Half-ounce butter. Three-quarters crumbs. Fish Quenelles. Half gill milk. Half an egg. ounce bread Pepper and salt. Squeeze of lemon juice. One tablespoonful cream. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the bread crumbs and the milk, and cook together till thick. Wipe and shred down the fish, and pound it with the sauce and the egg in a mortar; then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Add the cream and seasonings, and shape into quenelles. Lay them on a greased frying-pan, and pour into the pan enough boiling water to nearly cover them. Cover them over with a round of greased paper, and poach slowly for about fifteen minutes. When firm, drain well in a heated cloth, and dish neatly on a round of toast, and garnish with a sprig of parsley.147 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Fish Souffle Four ounces of uncooked fish (cod, haddock, or whiting). One ounce flour. Half an ounce butter. Two small eggs. Half a gill of fish stock or milk. Half a gill cream. Pepper and salt. Squeeze of lemon juice. Wipe the fish and chop it finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and fish stock or milk, and cook until the sauce is thick. Pound the fish, the sauce, and the eggs in a mortar; then rub through a fine sieve. Season well, add the cream, and pour the mixture into a buttered souffle tin. Cover with a buttered paper, and steam very gently for about three-quarters of an hour. When firm, turn the souffle on to a hot dish, and coat it with a fish sauce. Mutton Chop Steamed* One mutton chop. Pinch of salt. A little butter. Choose a loin chop cut from well-hung mutton, wipe it, trim away most of the fat, and make it a good shape. Place the chop in a greased plate, cover it with greased paper and a pan lid. Put the plate over a stewpan of boiling water. Keep the water underneath fast boiling that there may be sufficient steam, and if it boils away add more. Cook the chop for about forty minutes, and turn it once while cooking. Serve the chop on a hot dish, and pour over it any juice that has run from it while cooking. Note.—Fillet of sole or whiting can be cooked in the same way. They will take from twenty to thirty minutes, and when done the fish looks quite white and loses its trans- parent appearance. Breasts of chicken and game can also be steamed. Time varies according to the thickness of the meat.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 148 Tripe. Wash and scrape the tripe thoroughly in several waters, removing fat and all discoloured parts. Put it into a deep pan, cover with cold water, bring to the boil, and rinse thoroughly. Repeat these processes till the tripe smells sweet; then cover with water, and simmer for eight to ten hours till the tripe is tender. Stewed Tripe. Half a pound well-boiled tripe. Half an ounce butter. Quarter an ounce flour. One gill tripe liquor. One gill milk. One boiled onion. Pepper and salt. Sippets of toast. Make a white sauce with the flour, butter, milk, and tripe liquor (see page 65). Cut the tripe into neat pieces and chop the onion. Add these to the sauce, season well, and simmer very gently about twenty minutes. Serve on a hot ashet, with the sippets of toast round. One or two tea- spoonfuls of cream added to the sauce makes it more nourishing. Chicken Panada. Quarter a pound breast of chicken. One teaspoonful cold water. One or two tablespoonfuls of cream. Salt. Wipe the meat and cut it in small pieces, and put it into a small basin with the water and a pinch of salt. Cover it over with greased paper, and steam it slowly from one to one and a half hours. Then put the contents of the basin into a mortar, pound well, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the sieved mixture into a pan, add the cream, and heat thoroughly, and pile the panada on a round of toast. Garnish with a sprig of parsley, and serve.SICK-ROOM COOKERY, 149 Veal Quenelles. Four ounces of veal. Quarter of an ounce butter. Half an ounce flour. Half an egg. Pepper and salt. Quarter of a gill of stock. Remove all skin from the veal, cut it small, and pass twice through a mincing machine. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the flour and stock, and cool until thick. Pound the veal, sauce, and half an egg in a mortar; then rub it through a fine wire sieve. Season well. Form into quenelles, using a dessert spoon. Put the quenelles into a greased frying- pan; pour into the pan sufficient boiling water almost to cover them. Put a buttered paper over, and poach gently for about twenty minutes, basting them occasionally. When firm, drain the quenelles on a cloth and dish them on a round of toasted bread. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Note.—Beef, mutton, or chicken quenelles may be made by the above recipe. Stewed One pigeon trussed for roast- ing. Half an ounce butter. Pigeon. Three gills hot brown stock. One teaspoonful arrowroot. Pepper and salt. Make the butter smoking hot and brown the pigeon in it, then pour over it the hot stock. Cook the pigeon very gently till tender (from one to one and a half hours). When cooked, serve the pigeon on hot dish and keep hot. Break the arrow- root to a smooth paste with a little cold water; add it to the stock. Stir till boiling, and cook thoroughly. Season well, and strain the sauce over the pigeon. Note.—Partridge can be prepared in the same way.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. iSo Stewed Sweetbread. One heart sweetbread. Half a pint white stock or milk. One tablespoonful cream. One dessertspoonful arrow* root. Pepper and salt. Few drops of lemon juice. Soak the sweetbread in cold water and a little salt for one hour, then blanch it. Lift the sweetbread into a bowl of cold water, and with the fingers pull away any fat or gristle. Tie it into a piece of muslin, place in a stewpan, and cover with hot stock or milk. Simmer gently for one hour. When the sweetbread feels tender lift it on to a square of toast and keep it hot. Break the arrowroot to a smooth paste with a little cold stock, strain it into the stock in the pan, bring to the boil, and cook from four to five minutes. Add the cream, season nicely, and pour the sauce over the sweetbread. Invalid Fruit Tart. One penny sponge cake. One egg. One teaspoonful castor sugar. One gill milk. One large apple. Two tablespoonfuls water. One dessertspoonful sugar. Boil the two tablespoonfuls of water with the dessert- spoonful of sugar for five minutes, then put in the peeled and sliced apple. Cook till tender. Beat the apple smooth, and put it at the bottom of a greased pie-dish. Cut the sponge cake into thin slices, and place these on the stewed apple. Beat up the egg, add the teaspoonful of castor sugar and the milk, and pour over the sponge cake. Let the pudding stand for a few minutes, then bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen or twenty minutes until the custard is set.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 151 Calfs-foot Jelly* For the Stock. One ox-foot or two calf’s feet. Five pints cold water. Cut the foot into four or six pieces, and remove all marrow and fat. Wash and scrape it well in warm water, put it in a deep pan, and cover it with cold water. Bring it to the boil and rinse well, then return it to the pan with the five pints of water. Simmer slowly from six to seven hours, then strain it through a hair sieve into a basin, and allow it to become cold. To Clear the Jelly. To every pint of stock allow— Half a gill lemon juice. One gill sherry. Three ounces loaf sugar. Two cloves. One inch of cinnamon stick. Rind of one lemon. One shell and white of egg. Two or three sheets of gelatine if stock is not very firm. Half a gill brandy. Carefully remove every particle of grease from the stock with a spoon dipped in hot water, then wipe the surface with a cloth wrung out of hot water. Rinse a well-lined deep pan, and into it put the stock, gelatine (if required), sherry, cloves, and cinnamon. Wash, dry, and peel the lemon thinly, and add peel and lemon juice to the other ingredients. Then add the white of egg and shell (washed and crushed). Place this over the fire and whisk it briskly till a good froth rises and it is just beginning to boil; then remove the whisk, and allow the contents of the pan to boil well up to the top of the pan. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, cover it with a plate, and allow it to settle for ten minutes. Tie a linen cloth to the four legs of a kitchen chair turned upside down. Pour a basin of boiling water through the cloth, then pour the jelly carefully through into a scalded152 PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. bowl, and add the brandy. Strain the jelly three or four times till it is perfectly clear, then cover it with a blanket and allow it to drip through. Rinse a mould or basin with cold water, and when the jelly is cold, but not set, remove the froth from it and pour it gently into the mould. When set, dip the mould in warm water and turn out the jelly. Note.—If the sherry is wanted as a stimulant, add it to the jelly with the brandy, as the alcohol evaporates by boiling. Port Wine Jelly* Three gills port. One gill water. One tablespoonful red-currant jelly. Two ounces loaf sugar. One inch of cinnamon stick. Rind and juice of one lemon. One ounce gelatine. Wash and peel the lemon thinly, and strain the juice from it; then put all the ingredients into a lined rinsed pan, and stir over the fire until dissolved; then draw the pan to one side, and allow it to infuse for fifteen minutes. Strain the jelly through muslin. When cold, pour into wine-glasses or little moulds. When set, turn out and serve. Chicken Jelly* One chicken, or the carcass of One bay leaf. Pinch of salt, a chicken. Cold water. Few parsley stalks. Remove the breast fillets from the chicken, and reserve these for steaming, etc. Cut the chicken into joints, and cut all flesh from the bones. Wash the neck and gizzard well—these may be used for the jelly. Put the prepared chicken into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and add a pinch of salt. Bring it to the boil and skim well; add the bay leaf and parsley stalks. Simmer gently from three to four hours. Strain through a hair sieve, and when cold remove all fat from the top. The stock can then be served cold in its jellied state, or heated as required.SICK-ROOM COOKERY, 153 Orange Jelly* Half a pint water. Half a pint orange juice. Juice of two lemons. Rind of three oranges. Three ounces loaf sugar. One ounce gelatine. Put the water, sugar, orange rind, and gelatine into a saucepan and stir until dissolved; cover, and allow to infuse for ten minutes, then strain it into a basin; add the orange and lemon juice, also strained. Pour the jelly into a rinsed mould, and when set turn out and serve. Toast Water. One slice bread. One pint boiling water. Toast the bread on both sides till dried through and quite brown but not burnt. Put it into a basin or jug, pour over it the boiling water, let it stand till cold; strain. Cooling. Apple Water. Three apples. I A piece of lemon rind. Half an ounce sugar. | One pint of boiling water. Wipe the apples with a damp cloth; neither pare nor core them. Cut them in slices, and put them into a jug with the sugar and lemon rind. Pour the boiling water over them, cover the jug, and let it stand till cold. Strain off the liquor. Cooling. Useful in fevers. Barley Water. One ounce pearl barley. Rind and juice of half a lemon. One pint cold water. Sugar to taste. Wash and blanch the barley, then put it into a well-lined pan with the pint of water and the thinly-peeled lemon rind. Simmer it slowly for two hours, then strain, and sweeten it to taste. Add also the lemon juice, unless milk is to be addedPLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. i54 in which case omit the lemon juice, as it would curdle the milk. Serve hot or cold. Rice Water. Half an ounce whole rice. One pint cold water. Wash the rice, put it into a pan with one pint of cold water, bring to the boil. Boil for half an hour, strain, and serve cold. If permitted by the doctor, a teaspoonful of sugar may be added, and an inch of cinnamon cooked with it to give flavour. Good for diarrhoea, dysentery, and cholera. Cooling and slightly nutritious. Lemonade. Two lemons. | Two or three lumps of sugar. One pint boiling water. Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth, and peel the rind off one of them as thinly as possible, then cut them in two and squeeze out the juice. Strain the juice into a jug, add to it the lemon rind and sugar, and pour on the boiling water. Cover the jug, and allow the lemonade to stand until cold, then strain. Note.—Oranges can be used instead of lemons. Wine Whey. One gill of milk. | Half a gill of sherry. One lump of sugar. Put the milk and sugar into a rinsed saucepan and bring it to the boil, then pour in the sherry; and when the milk is well curdled, strain through clean muslin into a glass, and serve the whey. Gruel. One ounce of medium oatmeal. Half a pint cold water. Break the oatmeal with the water, cover it over, and allow it to stand for one hour; then stir it up and strain it intoSICK-ROOM COOKERY. i55 a saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Allow the gruel to simmer for fifteen minutes. Before serving it can be sweetened or salted according to taste. Linseed Tea* One ounce whole linseed. Two or three lumps sugar. of of half a Rind and juice lemon. One pint of boiling water. Put the linseed, sugar, and lemon rind into a saucepan, add the boiling water, and simmer for twenty minutes; then add the lemon juice, and strain the tea into a glass or jug. Serve when cold. Note.—If the drink is used for a bad cold, a small piece of liquorice or sugar candy may be boiled with it, or half a tablespoonful of honey may be used. Treacle Posset. One tablespoonful of treacle. One gill of milk. Put the milk into a rinsed pan and bring it to the boil, and then add the treacle. When the milk is well curdled, strain the posset through muslin into a glass and serve. Egg Drink. One egg. One teaspoonful castor sugar. One tablespoonful of sherry. One gill of heated milk. Beat the egg in a small basin till it is well mixed, add the sugar and sherry, and pour on the heated milk, stirring all the time. Pour into a glass and serve. Egg Flip. One white of egg. | One teaspoonful castor sugar. One gill of hot milk. Beat the white of egg until frothy but not stiff, add the sugar and hot milk to it, stir well together, and serve.PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES. 156 Cup of Arrowroot. Half an ounce arrowroot. | Half a pint of milk. Half a teaspoonful of sugar. Break the arrowroot smooth with a little cold milk; heat the rest of the milk and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring all the time; pour it back into the rinsed pan, stir till boiling, and cook from seven to ten minutes. Add sugar, and serve. Note.—If wine is desired, add two tablespoonfuls of sherry before serving. Porridge. One tablespoonful medium Half a pint of water, oatmeal. Salt. Have the water freshly boiled in a deep pan, and add to it the salt. Sprinkle in the oatmeal, stirring carefully with a stick or wooden spoon to prevent lumps. Boil and stir for the first five or six minutes till the meal is swollen, then simmer for at least half an hour, stirring up frequently. If necessary, add more boiling water, as porridge should be of a good pouring consistency. Note.—Some people find porridge more digestible if the meal is soaked overnight in the cold water. Port Wine Lozenges. One gill port. Quarter of an ounce isinglass. One inch of stick cinnamon. Four lumps of sugar. One teaspoonful red-currant jelly. Strip of lemon rind. Put all the ingredients into a pan and stir over the fire until dissolved; put the lid on the pan, and infuse for ten minutes. Strain through muslin, and pour the mixture into a flat dish. When cold and set, cut into neat-sized pieces.INDEX* Apple amber, ioo; balls, 81; char- lotte-, no; chutney, 141; fritters, 103; jelly, 105 ; sauce, 68; water, 153- Apples, stewed, 109. Arrowroot, cup of, 156. Arrowroot pudding, 88. Artichokes, 76. Ayrshire shortbread, 134. Bacon and eggs, fried, 113. Bakewell pudding, 102. Barley pudding, 88. Barley water, 153. Baroness pudding, 93. Beef, essence of, 144. Beef, fried fillets of, 53; olives, 45; roast, 35; spiced, 50; stewed, 42. Beefsteak and kidney pie, 54. Beefsteak and kidney pudding, 56. Beef-tea, ordinary, 143; quickly made, 143 ; raw, 144. Beetroot, 74. Black currant jelly, 140. Blakemore pudding, 102. Blancmange, 108. Bone soup, 13. Brandy sauce, 70. Brandy wafers, 133. Brawn, 51. Bread, brown, 120 ; Vienna, 123 ; white, 119. Bread crumb pudding, 89. Bread sauce, 67. Breast of veal, stewed, 43. Brown bread pudding, 97. Brown sauce, 68. Brown stock, 13. Buns, 120. Butter biscuits, 132. Buttermilk cake, 127. Cabbage, etc., how to boil, 75. Cabinet pudding, plain, 98. Calf’s-foot jelly, 151. Caper sauce, 66. Carraway seed cake, 125. Carrots, boiled, 73; stewed, 73. Casserole ofprunes, 109; ofrice, 107. Cauliflower, 75. Celery, soup, 23; stewed, 76. Cheese biscuits, 133. Cheese cakes, 81. Chicken broth, 145 ; cream, 146 ; jelly, 152; panada, 148. Chicken, roast, 37. Chocolate, how to make, 117. Chocolate cake, 127 ; pudding, 98 ; shape, 108. Chop, how to grill, 47. Cocoa, how to make, 117. Cocoanut buns, 131 ; cake, 126; pudding, 97. Cod, stuffed and baked, 26. Coffee, how to make, 117. Coffee jelly, 106 ; pudding, 96. Cold meats, 58. Cold meat cutlets, 59 ; patties, 63 ; shape, 61. Cornflour cake, 126 ; pudding, 88 ; sauce, 69; shape, 107.INDEX. 158 Cream salad dressing, 77. Croquettes, 59. Croustades, 60. Currant cake, 125. Curry of cold meat, 62 ; of fish, 32. Custard pudding, 89. Custard sauce, 69. Dough cake, 121. Dressed tongue, 51. Dropped scones, 135. Dutch flummery, 107. Egg-balls, 18. Egg drink, 155. Egg flip, 155. Eggs, curried, 112 ; poached, 112 ; scrambled, 113. Essence of beef, 144. Farola pudding, 88. Fig custard, 108 ; pudding, 93. Figs, stewed, no. Fillets of beef, fried, 53. First stock, 13. Fish cakes, 30; cream, 145 ; fried, 27, 28; pudding, 31 ; que- nelles, 146 ; sauce, 65 ; souffle, 147 ; soup, 20; stock, 14. Fish, how to boil, 26. Flaky pastry, 85. Fowl, how to draw, 37; how to truss, 38. French dressing, 77- Fruit pudding, 83 ; tart, 79 ; turn- overs, 82. Galantine of beef, 57. Galettes, 121. Gateau of fish, 31 ; of meat, 60. General favourite (pudding), 101. German pound cake, 124. Giblet soup, 17. Gingerbread, 128. Gingerbread pudding, 90. Gravy soup, 17. Greengage jam, 139. Green pea soup, 22. Gruel, 154. Haddock, steamed fillets of, 28. Ham toast, 116. Hare, roast, 37. Haricot beans, 74; soup, 21. Haricot mutton, 44. Hash, 58. Herrings, baked, 30; fried, 29; grilled, 29. Hominy pudding, 87. Hotch-potch, 19. Hot-water pastry, 82. Invalid fruit tart, 150. Irish stew, 41. Jams and jellies, 138. Jam sauce, 70. Kedgeree, 32. Kidneys and bacon, grilled, 114. Kidney soup, 15. Kidney, stewed, 43. Lamb’s head, 41. Leeks, 75. Lemonade, 154. Lemon curd, 141; jelly, 104; jumbles, 131 ; pudding, 94, (baked) 101; sponge, 106; syrup, 141. Lentils, 74; soup, 20. Linseed tea, 155. Liver and bacon, 52. Luncheon cake, 124 ; scones, 136. Macaroni and cheese, 114,115. Macaroni and tomatoes, 115. Macaroni pudding, 89 ; soup, 25. Mackerel, grilled, 29. Madeira cake, 125. Maitre d’h6tel butter, 114. Marmalade, 142; pudding, 94; sauce, 69. Marmalade and vermicelli pud- ding, 99. Mayonnaise dressing, 77. Meats, time for cooking, 36. Melted butter sauce, 66.INDEX, Milk biscuits, 132. Mince, 59. Mince collops, 45. Mint sauce, 69. Mulligatawny soup, 16. Mutton, boiled, 39; caper sauce for, 66; chop steamed, 147; cutlets, 48; haricot, 44 ; roast, 35- Mutton broth, 144. Newcastle pudding, 95. Oatcakes, 136. Oatmeal biscuits, 132. Omelet, sweet, no; savoury, 113. Onion sauce, 67. Onion soup, 24. Open tart, 80. Orange jelly, 153. Ox-tail soup, 15. Ox-tail, stewed, 46. Oyster sauce, 66. Oysters, stewed, 33. Pancakes, 103. Parsley, how to fry, 28. Parsley sauce, 66. Parsnips, 73. Pastry, flaky, 85 ; hot-water, 82; rough puff, 82; short crust, 79; suet, 83. Pease pudding, 40. Pea soup, 21. Pickle for meat, 50. Pies—beefsteak and kidney, 54 ; fish, 34; rabbit, 55 ; raised, 52; sea, 57 ; veal and ham, 55. Pigeon, stewed, 149. Piquante sauce, 68. Plaice, stuffed, 27. Plum cake, plain, 123. Plum pudding, plain, 92. Poached eggs, 112. Pork, roast, 36. Porridge, 156. Port wine jelly, 152; lozenges, 156. Potato chips, 72. 159 Potatoes, baked, 71 ; boiled in their jackets, 71 ; mashed, 71 ; new, 72 ; pared, 71 ; steamed, 72. Potato scones, 136. Potato soup, 22. Potato straws, 73- Potted meat, 63 ; shrimps, 33. Preserved rhubarb, 139. Prunes, casserole of, 109. Puddings, 86. Puree of carrot and turnip, 22. Queen cakes, 129. Rabbit, boiled, 40; roast, 37 ; soup, 18. Rabbit pie, 55. Ragout of rabbit, 45 ; of veal, 44. Raised pie, 52. Raspberry jam, 139. Red pottage soup, 21. Red currant jelly, 140. Restorative soup, 145. Rhubarb jam, 139. Rhubarb, preserved, 139. Rice, boiled, 75; pudding, 86, 88, (French) 92 ; soup, 24. : Rice cake, 126 ; small, 130. Rice, casserole of, 107. Rice water, 154. Rissoles, 60. Roast beef, 35 ; chicken, 37 ; hare, 37; mutton, 35 ; pork, 36; rab- bit, 37- Rock buns, 130. Roly-poly, 84. Rough puff pastry, 82. Sago pudding, 87. Salads, 77. Salt beef, boiled, 39. Salt pork, boiled, and pease pud- ding, 40. Sandwich cake, white, 129. Sauces, 65. Sausage rolls, 56. Savarin, 122. Scalloped fish, 33.i6o INDEX, Scones, afternoon tea, 135; dropped, 135; luncheon, 136; potato, 136; soda, 134. Scotch broth, 18. Scotch seed cake, 124. Scotch woodcock, 116. Scrambled eggs, 113. * Sea pie, 57. Second or household stock, 14. Seed buns, 130. Semolina pudding, 87. Shepherd’s pie, 61. Shin of beef soup, 19. Shortbread, 134; Ayrshire, 134. Short crust pastry, 79. Shrewsbury biscuits, 131. Shrimps, potted, 33. Sick-room cookery, 143. Sir Watkin Wynne pudding, 91. Snowdon pudding, 93. Soda cake, 127. Sole, steamed fillets of, 28. Soup maigre, 24. Soup restorative, 145- Soups, 13; stock for, 13; thicken- ing for, 17. Spice cake, 126. Spiced beef, 50. Spinach, 76. Sponge cake, 128. Sponge pudding, 96. Spring salad, 77. Steak, grilled, 47. Stewed beef, 42; breast of veal, 43 ; kidney, 43 ; mutton, 44 ; ox-tail, 46; pigeon, 149; sweet- bread, 150; tripe, 148. Strawberry jam, 138. Suet pastry, 83. Suet pudding, plain, 91. Sultana cake, 124. Sultana pudding, 95. Swiss roll, 128. Syrup pudding, 84; sponge, 90. Tapioca pudding, 86. Tea, how to make, 117. Tea scones, afternoon, 135. Toast, how to make, 118. Toast water, 153. Tomato and celery salad, 78. Tomato sauce, 67. Tomato soup, 21. Treacle posset, 155. Tripe, 148; stewed, 148. Turnips, new, 73 ; old, 73. Vanilla souffle, 99. Veal and ham pie, 55. Veal broth, 145 ; cream, 146 curried, 48; cutlets, 49; olives 45 ; quenelles, 149. Veal, rolled and stuffed, 36. Vegetables, 71. Vegetable marrow soup, 23. Vienna bread, 123. Welsh rarebit, 116. West Riding pudding, 100. White sandwich cake, 129. White sauce, 65. White stock, 13. Wine whey, 154. Winter salad, 78. Woodcock, Scotch, 116. Yorkshire pudding, 104. Yorkshire tea cake, 121. THE END.