ADVERTISEMENTS. DIABETES. BONTHRON'S DIABETIC BREAD AND BISCUITS. Dr. PAVY, in his recent work on "Diabetes," p. 245, says: "Mr. Bonthron', of IOC Regent Street, has recently succeeded in producing some Oluten Biscuits and Bread which are more eatable than anything of the kind I have ever yet met with. The Biscuits present somewhat the character of a cracknel; they eat short and crisp, and are really reducible in the mouth, having no unpleasant taste, and, consumed with other food, possess the power of cleansing the palate. The Bread is moist, and will not keep good for more than about ten days. Its consumption, therefore, involves a frequent supply. It serves to increase the variety at the command of the diabetic, and, independently of this, possesses the advantage of presenting an approach to the condition of ordinary bread." The " LANCET," of Tune 9th, 1877, under the head of Analytical Records, says : "We have received from the above well-known maker no less than six different samples of biscuits, etc., intended for diabetic treatment. No. 1 is called the 'Diabetic Biscuit,' and contains much gluten and very little starch. No. 2 is the ' Regent Biscuit,' made from gluten and prepared bran. No. 3 is au 'Almond Biscuit,' and the rest are modifications of the first two. They are excellent preparations, and though, of course, they are not so palatable as if they contained the normal quantity of starch, they can be eaten without difficulty or repul- sioD. Indeed, it is not easy to see how they could be improved." The Bread is made fresh every day, and, as has been already noticed, will keep good for a week ; a supply can thus be forwarded to arjy part of the Kingdom. The Biscuits will keep good for almost any length of time, and on this account are well adapted for exportation. In addition to the above, a large and excellent variety of Dessert Biscuits of a nutritive and appetising character can now be supplied. The new COFFEE AND CRESSINI BISCUITS, now widely recommended by Medical Men, are very agreeable and pleasant. These preparations have just lately been awarded the Silver Medal, highest award in olass, in the Edinburgh Exhibition. GLUTEN FLOUR, 2/6 per lb. BISCUITS, 3/6 per lb. LOAVES, 9d. each. BRAN, Is. per lb. The LOAVES can be sent through the Post, 1s. each. Both Bread and Biscuits have now been before the Medical Profession for over twenty-five years with the highest results, and with the greatest satisfaction to those requiring to use them, and whose testimony (after years of trial) of the great advantage they continue to derive from them, constitute their best recommendation. As Gluten Preparations are costly, and will keep good any length of time, it is cheapest and best to communicate direct with the Maker, JOHN BONTHRON, 106 Regent Street, London.