ADVERTISEMENTS. The "Allenburys" Foods, A physiologically progressive dietary for Infants. Allen & Hanburys have perfected the following series of Foods whereby an infant may be reared by hand from birth until the age of one year. No other euuh scientific method exists, and these Foods possess the great advantages of being absolutely pure, sterile, and will not give rise to diarrhoea and digestive troubles, as is often the case when cow's milk is given. In all climates and under all conditions, with the addition of pure water only, it is now possible to rear an infant in health and safety. The "Allenburys" Milk Food, No. I (For use from Birth to Three Months) is a dry powdei prepared from pure cow's milk at their factory in the country. The excess of casein bas been removed and the deficiency in cream and milk sugar made good. When mixed with water in the proportions given in the directions for use, a pure sterile humanised milk is obtained. This Food should be used for the first three months of infant life. The "Allenburys" Milk Food, No. II (For use from Three to Six Months) To meet the increasing digestive capabilities of the infant No. II Food is now substi- tuted. It contains in addition to the humanised milk powder, maltose and phosphates etc which are necessary to the building of the frame. There is no undigested starch present' which at this stage the child would be unable to assimilate. These Foods may be with advantage used In conjunction with the natural feeding when the milk is scanty or poor. With no other substitute is this possible, as the disagree- ment between the artificial and natural foods usually produces sickens, and the child at once falls off. The " lancet " writes : " Mere dilution of cow's milk cannot, therefore, afford a perfect substitute for the milk oi the mother. The satisfactory solution of the problem can only be attempted when the difference in the amounts of the constituents in cow's and human milk are first taken into account, and then by adopting a process which it is calculated will rcuDve these differences, or, at any rate, reduce them to insignificant proportions Not only does it seem to us that this is exactly what Messrs. Allen & Hanbttrys have succeeded in doing, but what makes the product still more valuable and convenient is that it is in the form of dry powder and is sterilised. Not less satisfactory is the taste of these preparations, which is agreeably sweet and malty We regard the introduction of both Foods as a progressive step in infant dietaries of considerable importance and value." The "Allenburys" Malted Food, No. Ill (For use from Six Months and upwards) is not, like the above, a milk food, but a pure and perfect farinaceous food The StaOJEf-S d^esti"S eXtnJ? of malt'the starch of fine cooked wheaten flour, ™ L f ?! the ,st"eh13 "ot- however, digested, in order that the now developing digestive powers of the infant may have something to work upon, and not degenerate from thsuse An entire starch diet as is so often given will overtax the digestive powerrand produce" wasting and i ness. At first it. is better in mixing this Food not to employ cow" m Ik but SOLE MANUFACTURERS: ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD PLOUGH COURT, LOMBARD STREET, LONDON, LC.