ADVERT IK EM KiVTS. Milk Puddings in Perfection. TRY THESE ECONOMICAL RECIPES FOR USING "MILKMAID" BRAND CONDENSED MILK. $*F~ To make 1 pint of Milk, take 4 tablespoonfuls (5 oz., or about one-third of a tin) of "Milkmaid" Brand, and add rather more than three-quarters of a pint of water. No Susrar Required ! KICE PUDDING-.—One pint Milk (made as directed above), 1 oz. Eice, 1 oz. Butter or Shredded Beef Suet, 1 Egg. Wash the rice well and put it into a lightly-buttered pie-dish with the butter or suet and milk. Bake in a slow oven for 1^ hour. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING."-Three thin Slices of Bread and Butter, 1 oz. Currants (well washed and picked), 1 pint Milk (made as directed above), 1 Egg. If liked, a little grated lemon rind Put the slices of bread and butter into a lightly-buttered pie-dish. Sprinkle the currants between the layers. Well beat an egg; add the milk and beaten egg, and bake for half an hour. TAPIOCA PUDDING.—One pint Milk (made as directed above), 2 oz. Tapioca, 1 oz. Butter or Shredded Suet, 1 Egg. Lightly butter a pie-dish, then put in the tapioca, remainder of butter or suet, and half the milk. Let the tapioca swell in a cool oven for half an hour, then add the egg well-beaten, and the rest of the milk. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake in a slow oven for 1 hour. MACARONI PUDDING.—One pint Milk (made as directed above), 2 oz. Macaroni, 1 Egg, Flavouring (grated lemon rind, powdered cinnamon, or nutmeg). Break the macaroni into pieces one or two inches long, throw into fast boiling salted water, and cook till nearly tender, then drain off the water, put the macaroni into a lightly-buttered* pie-dish, add the milk, flavouring, and egg well beaten, and bake in a moderate oven for | hour to 1 hour. BLANC-MANGE.—One quart Milk (made as directed above), 2 tablespoonfuls Corn Flour, a few drops of Vanilla or Almond Flavouring. Put the com flour into a basin and mix smooth with a little milk, then add the rest of the milk, and give it 10 minutes' good sharp boiling. _ It should boil clown to not more than two-thirds of the original quantity. Then pour it into a mould that has been wetted with cold water, and leave till set. CUSTARD.—Three-quarters pint Milk (made by adding water to 2 tablespoonfuls of "Milkmaid" Brand), 1 teaspoonful Corn Flour, 1 Egg. Put the corn flour into a basin and mix smooth with a little of the milk. Put the rest of the milk on to boil; when boiling, pour on to the corn flour, —•■ — —- d cook for 5 minutes. Atly beaten, and add 3k again till the egg e egg has been added. TT> Milk, ery Tin you buy. 22101609782