fat. lie place the mixture in tlie potato mul cover with the piecs which have been previously re- moved* reheat and s rve hot. VAitiA t ions—A variation of this mav be made by lining1 the seooi cl out potato with the mashed potato mixture, then bre king a fresh egg carefully into the autre and baking until just set. This makes a substantial dish. A further variation would be to use a tillet of cooked iisli cover*il with well-flavoured white sauce instead of an egg. Potato and Cabbage Cakes.—Mix .j lb. mashed potatoes and $ lb. cooked and finely chopp. d cabbage ; season well, turn on to a floured board, roll into cakes of even size, flour and bake. Che se and Potato Pie.— 2 lbs potatoes, 1 egg or dri. d egg. I < z. cot king fat 1 1 oz. fl ur pint skimmed milk or Vf getable stock Salt, pepp' r Grated cheese lor flavouring. A little li e pea flour. Boil, peel and slice the potatoes ; hard boil and s’ice the eggs Make a white sauce as follows: Melt the margari in a pan, draw to the side of the fire, stir ii the Hour and mix well with the bade of a w out. sp un. Add gradually abmit one-third of the liquid, stir carefully till boiling Add the rest of ihe liquid gradually, stirring meanwhile ; bring to the bo 1. and hoil slowly lor about ten minutes. Season with pepper and sab and. lastly, add the grated cheese. Arrange the potatoes, egg a> d sauce in layers in a pie dish : finishing wiih a layer of sauce. Sprinkle with pen flour ; heaT in the. oven until brown. ft oto In aim st every recipe in which a starc hy food su h as macaroni, is used with cheese, the start by fa d ad vocal eel can be replaced by cooked potato : especially when potatoes are plentiful and cheap. To make white sauce. Savoury Potato and Tomato — 10 cold cooked potatoe s. £ lb. tomatoes. 1 <l cooking fat. silt, pepper, choppeu paisley. Cut the potato into slice-. Peel and slice tin tomato. Melt the fat in a pan, add the vegetables and season to t ste. Cook gently over the fire for 10 minutes, stirring now and then. Dish up and serve hot. Curried Potatoes :— 10 cold cooked potatoes. A large onion. 1 oz fat £ oz. flour. i oz curry powder. Juice of quarter a lemon, al t le sain. 2J gills of stock, ih ei and si ce the onion, fry it in the fat. Add the potatoes cut in cubes, toss these in the fat,add salt to taste, then r-prinkle in the curry powder and tne flour, add the stock ami lemon juice. Stew slowly over the fire for 15 minutes. Dish up and serve hoc Potato Salad.—Any cold cooked potatoes, a little cooked beetroot. 1 teaspoont'ul of chopped paisley, 2 tab espuonsful of s ilacl oil, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, A cut onion, :} tcaspoouful of salt, \ teaspoon fu l pepper. Rub the inside of the salad-bowl or dish with a cut onion, just enoug i to give the salad the flavour, without maki g it too strong. Slice the potatoes and hiy them in the dish. Potatoes freshly cooked and sliced while warm are best for this. Put the salt and pepper in a small basin, add the vinegar, stir the oil to this very briskly, add the parsley ; pour over the potatoes, put the cooked beetroot as a garnish on tlm top. Note :—Equal quantities of potato, beetroot, carrot, turnip, all cooked and laid in the salad- bowl as ab >ve with a sauce poured over, makes an excellent salad. Slices of cooked potatoes are a useful addition to any green salad. To Prepare Beetroot.—In digging this vegetable up. and in washing it, care must be taken not to bruise the skin, or the juice will ran out and the colour be spoilt. Boil it for 1£ to 2 hours, till it feels soft to the touch. When cold, skin it and cut it into slices. D NNER DIS> ES (in which meat or beans are partly supplemented by potatoes). Meat and Potato Pie.— Tie— Pastry— | lb. meat (free 3 lb. flour, from bone), 3 ozs. cooking fat, 1.* lb. potatoes, J teaspoonful salt. 2 onions, Cold water to mix. Salt, pepper, water. For the Pie.—Peel and slice the potatoes and onions, cut the meat into small pieces. Fill a pie dish with alternate layers of potatoes, meat and onion, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Fill the pic dish J full with water, make the paste, roll it out and cover the pic. Bake in a hot oven for about l.\ hours. For the Pastry.—Mix the flour aud salt, rub in the fat with your perfeetly-cleau finger-tips, mix with water to a fairly stilt' p iste roll out and cover the pic, leaving a smali hole in the centre or at one side to allow the steam to escape. ftotc:—If the pastry i«, cooked before the con- tents of the pie, either (a) cover ic with a piece of well-greased or wet paper to prevent burning, or (b) a low the pie to finish cooking on the top of the o en, so that the m.-at cooks and the pastry does not. It is an improvement to fry the meat quite liehtly—just to brown it before putting it in the pie. Some extra Sauce is an improvement, for this use:— h oz. dripping, :i oz. flour, 1 onion (small). 1 pint s ock or water, Sal', pepper. ?kiu and mime linely the onion, melt the dripping and fry the onion aud flour until brown. Add -radu lly the liquid and seasonin, bring to the coil and simmer for about io minutes. The sauce may be steamed if dt sued. Note:—Any recipe for a inear pudding with a suei crust may be turned into a meat and potato pudding by using part meat and part potatoes. N' te Potatoes may also be used as a covering lor pies in place of pastry, example :— Hot Pot.—The potatces should be peeled thinly ind cut in slices, uncooked, p aced on the top of i he meat and vegetables and then cooked in the oven. cotlage Pie.—Potatoes should he mashed before putting on the top of either meat or lisii. Mashed potatoes may be used as a coating before frying. Irish Stew.—The method for making Irish stew ts given on another leaflet; it is only necessary to state here that meat and potato may be used in the proportion of twice as much potato as meat, and two small onioi s to every lb. of meat. The success of the dish depends on the slowness of the cookin/, ancl therefore on the length of the time allowed. To make it look very attractive t should be cooked and served in a lirepnof casserole. Meat and Potato Casserole.—Linii g for the casserole:— lb. mashed potato, 1 oz. cooking fat, 2 tablespoonsful flour, Salt and pepper. Mixture— i lb. minced cooked meat. 1 i gills thick brown sauce. Well grease a small casserole or, failing this, a plain cake tin, coat it with breadcrumbs, biscuit meal or oatmeal. M x the fat with the potato, season and line the tin with this mixtu e, leaving a cavity in the centre, and bake for about 20 minutes in a hot oven till brown. Heat tile mincerl meat and sauce together, season well. 'JLjtiru out the potato shape, ■mixture and serve hot. fill it with the hot meat Note :—The sauce may be made in the same way as the sauce in the last r :cipe. Nut and Potato Pie (mi y be put in scallop shells if preferred) :— A white sauce— l oz. fat, $ uz flour!. pint milk and water, Salt and jjepper ; A little made mustard, 1£ lbs. cooked potat) 3 oz*. mixed nuts (w 1 i tablespoons bread eiglied after shelling), c- umbs or fine oatmeal, Have ready a greased p e dish. Cut the potatoes cl or chop the nuts. Make Recife for Cheese and into small cubes ancl grin a white sauce as in th Potato Pie, season and add made mustard. Add all the ingredients to the sauce and mix well. Put the mixture into a pie di crumbs or oatmeal. Put margarine; on the top, an few minutes till brown. ih, sprinkle the top with a few very small bits of l bake in a hot oven for a Serve at once. pepper, a little water. made as lor Meat and Cornish Pasties :— h. lb. meat pieces (urilcooked) 2 or 3 potatoes (unctioked), 1 small onion, salt, p ii lb. of short crus Potato Pie. Wipe the meat, peel thte potato and onion. Cut the meat and potato into dice, chop the onion. Put the e together on a plu ;e, sprinkle the salt and pepper and moisten the mixture with a little water. Roll out the pas:e. divide it into six equil pieces. Roll toese into rounds. Put some of the mixture on each, wet tli* edges of the pasty, press them together, and form them into a f. ill over the top of the pastry. Baki in a moderate oven*J or about IO minutes. BAKED HE .RINGS WITH POTATOES. Potatoes are excellent cooked with the salted herrings now so plentiful; owing' to their neutral” flavour they modify the saltness of the To prepare the herri: clean them thoroughly and bone them in the following way. Remove the h« ads, open the fish the \ -hole length of the under- each side. Place on a cloth to cool, side from head to tail sp-eul the "back uppermost steam may be absorbed. on the board, pres* and rub up and down the whole length of the backbone till this is loosened from the flesh, when it may usually be lifted out whole with the ribs attached. Soak the fish overnight in cold water. Take ;— (J herrings, 8 potatoes, mustard sauce made.with | oz. flour, \ oz. fat. $ pint milk and water or fish stock, 1 teaspoonful made mustard, £ oz. grated cheese. Prepare a greased dish or scallop shells. Steam and peel the potatoes : break them up. B. il the herrings for 10 minutes. Make the mustard sauce in the same way as white sauce, an ding the mustard when the sauce is cooked, f Dke the herring, put all the ingredients in layers into the d.bli. leaving half the cheese to sprinkle over the top. Put in the oven till it is thoroughly hot through and browned on the t p. Potato I utter (I1.— 1 ozs. butter, margarine or beef dripping. ‘1 ozs potato (scrubbed, steamed and sieved). A t: aspoonful of salt Cream the batterer other fat thoroughly in a basin with a wooden spoon, and beat in the potato. When both are well mixed form into*pats aid serve. Potato Blitter (2).— 4 ozs. butler. 2 ozs. flour, •1 ozs putato (scrubbed, steamed and sieved), 2$ gilts mi le, .] teaspo.-n.fii0 salt. Melt half the butter and stir in the flour. Add the milk and Ding to the boil, stirring all the while. When it has boiled and cooked for .» minute-', remove from the fite. Allow to cool a little, and beat; in the potato and the remainder of the blitter gradually. Add the salt. Potato Toast.— 2 oz>. potato (scrubbed, steamed and sieved). 2 ozs. flour, t} teaspoonfui salt, | teaspooniul baking powder, | gill water. Mix the flour aid potato thoroughly'. Add the salt and the baking powder. M isten with the water and mix to a fairly stiff d ugh. Roll the parts out very thinly’, and cut it into squares- Place them on a biking sheet. Mark with the prongs of a fork and bake in the oven till a nice- light brown colour. B.vEAD MADE WITH FLOUR AND POTATOES. 7 Its. flour. 2^ lbs. potatoes (mealy'), steamed, peeled, mashed and sieved, 3 ozs. salt, About 4 pints tepid water, 2 ozs. yeast creamed with a little tepid water. Warm the flour. Add potatoes warmed and the salt, mix all well. Make a well in the middle, pour in the yeast mixed with half the water. Work in a little of the flour with the fingers to make a smooth batter. Sprinkle this with some of the flour from the sides. C ver with a cloth, and put to rise in a warm place for a { hour. When the sponge is full of bubbles, pour in the rest of the warm wa er and knead in the rest of the flour. Continue to knead until the dough is quite smooth and does not stick to the hands. Cub deeply across t:ie surface. Cover with a cloth, and leav * in a warm kitchen to rise all night. Make it into loaves. Place in a warm place for a short time. Bake for about an hour. Wholemeal Bread.— 2^ lbs. wholemeal floui li lbs. potaioos (raw). About i pint water, Wash and scrub the potatoes, then cut out the eye.-, and grate the potatoes without peeling them. Sift the flour into a mixing pan, make a well in the centre and place in the grated potatoes. Mix the yeast with a little tepid water into a thin paste add this and the salt to the potatoes, mix all, and stir in gradually' the remainder of water (just tepid), work into a dough, place it in a basin, cover with a damp cloth, and let it stand in a warm place for about half an hour, or until the dough has sufficiently risen. .Next knead it well un a floured board, divide it in o one pound shapes, and place them on a floured baking sheet or else into floured cake tins. Allow to prove for auother 15 minutes, then bake in an evenly-heated oven from 45 to 50 minutes. Potato Scones. 2 lb. potatoes, 1 pinch of salt. 1 oz. cooking fat, About 2 ozs. flour. 1 tablespoon of milk, i teuspoonful baking- powder. Cook, peel and mash the potatoes. Heat up the milk and melt tbe butter in it. beat this into the potato, add tbe baking powder, salt, and work in as much flour as the paste will take up. Roll out thickly, cut into rounds. Place on a floured baking- tin and cook over the fire for about 5 reunites on fo that the 1 oz. yeast, 1 teaspoonful salt. IMPORTANT note. Do not look at these recipes hastily, and say ‘ too expensive, too elaborate.” Study them, and you will see how helpful they are. You can always simplify them to suit your own requirements. They provide tithes for six persons. Less is required for smaller families. Copies of this pamphlet may be obtained at the office of the nearest Food Control Committee, or from the Ministry of Food, Grosvehor House, London, W.i.