egg sauce, shrimp sauce or parsley sauce or. if vo i satisfactory: 5 not nearlJ’ so ^fcVISEP EDITION. WASTE NOT, WANT NOT. EG ON OMIT WSLL WSN THE WAR. Economy in Food M&arts Saving ©f Money. IMPORTANT NOTE. The Food Question has now become so urgent that, as a Nation, we shall have to consider the best wavs * of obtaining all available nourishment from fcods, and prepare every dish with that in view. Instructions in good methods of cooking are given jin these leaflets. It may be. however, that you have not all the materials mentioned, and that you have to work with very few pots and pans. Well, that is w si ere your cleverness will come in. You must “Make do” with what you have, and when you once know t anti simplify recipes to suit your own requirements. The shortage o. potatoes in the Spring of 1917 made UP all realise how dependent we have become upon potatoes as food ; it led to great activity on ail hands to place more lai d under cultivation of this most useful vegetable. Now the value of fhe nofnfo lime rhiafin :» *. . • . , ,, , , . r its mineral salts, and also in the fact that it provides bulk ; es to certain ways of cooking potatoes which deprive them value of the potato lies chiefly in the starch it contains, ir but unfortunately we, as a nation, have accustomed oursel of a great deal of their flavour and nourishing value. When potatoes are peeled and then cooked in boiling w!ater most of the flesh=forming nourishment passes into the vatei, and is iost when the water is thrown away. A welUknown authority on Food, Dr. Robt. Hutchinson, estimates that in a bushel of potatoes the loss of nourishing value When the potatoes are cooked in this wav is nearly equal to 1 lb. of beefsteak. WHY BUY POTATOES ONLY TO WASTE THEM? matter of practical experience. 7 (bs. of potatoes This surely is a saving worth they may be peeled thinly after A far better way is to steam potatoes in their skins, when, as a base been found to da the work of 8 lbs., besides retaining; all the delicious flavour, making. O. course, the potatoes must be well washed and scrubbed before cooking; cooking and before sending to table; this is a matter of taste. Even if you aie going to have mashed potatoes, steam .them in their skins before mashing, the flavour is ail the pr. A tin cfoamuM Fn £Z4- ^I, .. . ®® jfuidiucs., steam .mem :n tneir sicins oeiure masmng, me nav< better. A tin steamer to fit the saucepan is inexpensive, aid you will save its cost over and over again. i n < Till. potatoes-served a-s a -vEurriYnEE.r—mw'pamrogg Hints for Catering.—In preparing potatoes for ive as a vegetable, generally allow two good-sized potatoes for each person : choose potatoes of equal size, otherwise when cooking, some will be over- cooked and others undercooked. Polaloes Steamed in theirSkins.—Prepare asauce- pan of boiling- water with steamer attached. Clean wash and scrub the potatoes well, put them into the steamer and cook for about half-an-hour, 01 until the potatoes are soft, when pierced with a skewer, I,amove the steamer from the pan shake it until the potatoes are dry ; serve either in their ■skms or in a hot vegetable dish ; or, if preferred, they may be peeled before serving. Baked Potatoes, No. 1. —Wash and scrub the potatoes well, then dry and place them in a bokiim tin, and bake in a moderate oven about 11 to ~ Hours, according to size. Too fierce a heat will cause the potatoes to shrivel. Potatoes are im- proved by being steamed for about 20 minutes betoi e baking. Large potatoes are best for bakiug. Baki d Potatoes, No. 2—Steam the potatoes until the skins peel off easily. Rough the surface with a fork and sprinkle with a little flour and salt. lace the potatoes in a tin with two or three table- spoons of dripping. Baste often and cook until t lie potatoes are nicely brown and tender: it re- quires about 1 hour, including the steamim- If „ joint is being cooked, the flavour of the potato is greatly improved by being cooked under the joint with the dripping from the meat. J Mnsliei Potatoes. Steam the potatoes, remove ti e skins, mash the potatoes in a saucepan, nsiim .1 little milk and cooking fat (about 1 gill 0f milk and 1 oz.ot cooking- fat to about 2 lbs. of cooked potatoes) ; season to taste and serve very hot I otatoes may be mashed with a fork and wooden spoon, beating them up against the side of the saucepan, lhere is no reason why they should he lumpy it this process is carefully carried out A sieve or potato uiasher may be used if liked. ’ Fried Potatoes No. I.-Have ready a deep iron pail and a trying.basket with enough fat to cover w ell the potatoes m the frying-basket. Ilcat the ial. until it lias ceased bubbling, is quite still and a taint blue smoke can be seen (the bubbling shou « Hat the water m the fat has not yet evaporated. ..ml until it lias, the fat is not ready for use). Peel and cut the potatoes into thin slices or strips drv thoroughly in a clean cloth. Place them in small quantities at a time in the frying-basket and fry lor about .1 minutes until a golden-brown (too large a quantity put m at a time will cool down the fai ). After frying drain the pbttttdes thoroughly mi paper, sprinkle lightly with salt and serve hot it is always necessary to reheat the fat between the frying of each lot of potatoes. pared may be fried, if lineeessary, in a shallow trying-pan with sufficient fat to barely cover the thin slices. In this case also the fat must be first thoroughly heated as above directed, and only a few potatoes should be! fried at a time. Cold cooked potatoes may be sliced and fried in the same way. Sprinkle with a little salt after they are thoroughly drained and serve hot. They are known as " saute M potatoes. A Breakfast Disb. (Substitute for Bread) :— Mashed potatoes (see Recipe). A very little fat. Shape the potatoes into an oblong flat cake. Cut into finger lengths, and fry in hot fat till a golden brown. Drain and serve hot. LET POTATOES TAKE THE PLACE BREAD. OF When meat is being served, never serve bread with it, but always use potatoes cooked in one nf c mnire of the simple ways. There are here recipes for lunch and supper dishes. Bread-and-butter should never*be served with any of these dishes, because the potato supplies sufficient starch, and the fat is contained m most of the recipes. Where cheese, or eggs, or nuts are used in recipes, such dishes can be served as substitutes for meat. “—m i ,,i „[ i'y of., - potatoes, add a little chopped gar,ley'and season well. Turn this mixture on to a floured board, nil lightly into balls, coat either with milk and flour or egg and fine oatmeal or pea flour (dried egvs am quite suitable for this). Fry in deep fat (if passible, otherwise in shallow fat) until a golden brown. Directions for the use of dried e"-gs should be obtained where the eggs are bought, 'Is a ruie they require to be moistened with water and left to soak for some hours. Vakiation.—A variation of this recipe may be made lay addinglto every f lb. of mashed potatoes an ounce of grated cheese beaten in. Instead of form- ing this mixture into balls it may be put into small greased Ramakin eases, the surface roughed and a tiny Int of cooking- fat put on the top of each, and baked in a fairly quick oven for about 10 minutes. POTATO PASTRY. A A potato covering^ mr a p»e, suc}1 a3 -n. Jjuuttuu «t ]>u, SUCil US for Shepherd's Pie, should be used in preference to a flour crust for meat pies, kc. HOW TO STEAM WITHOUT A STEAMER. If you have not a steamer, use a basin pur in a saucepan containing boiling water. In this case cook them lor about ten minutes loner r Note I-Frymg in deep fat is not an extravanout method of cooking : it is. as a matter of fact a more economical method than shallow frying (when once yon have a sufficient supply 0f fat f provided the rat is cars ally strained off into an earthenware basin each tune after uslno- ic . fv, same fat can then be figKcllrepeatedlv ’ e fully in this way a « bath” oFfat should tel six months. Great care niust alwnv? ho 1 * to let the fat born, otherwise it will V,ot unpleasant flavour to anything ccoked g some houses where it is luuml diffi nh +-« the necessary amount of far. difficult, shallow fry in: must take A^a,r,lfre deep frying, but the result A not „ Pla.ce of USEFUL LUNCH 0! SUPPER FISHES MADE with potatoes. The lecipes lhat follow are planned to serve six persons : — Potato Pyramids or Poiato and Carrot Pyramids - STANDARD RECIPE : — To li 11)S. mashed potatoes, beat in 2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons finely-chopped cooked onions,' 2 tablespoons grated cheese ; Add salt and pepper to taste and, if liked, a little curry powder. Shape into pyramids on a greased tin or a fire- proof dish and bake until nicely browned (about j hour). Variation.—A variation of this may he made by using :— rib. mashed potatoes and h lb. mashed and sliced cooked carrot. Potato Croquettes.—Standard Recipe: — To 1 ’ lbs. mashed potatoes work in 2 tablespoons flour, the yolk of one egc. Season well and shape inn 1 i: 11 e e§fn-$izc<Tro!K Flour them well and fry until a golden-brown colour. Variations.—Attractive variations to this may be made by adding one of the following :— 2 tablespoons finely-chopped cooked oniun . 2 tablespoons grated cheese or any minced meat or Hiked fish or cooked smoked haddock-: finely flaked or chopped. Stuffed Potatoes (another excellent way of using up small remains of meat, fish. kc.). Standard Recite.—ellipse large potatoes of uniform size and wash and scrub them well. Bake them, cut off a piece lengthwise and scoop out the inside of the potato. 3Iash this with a little cook- ing fat and milk, arid minced cooked meat or cooked flaked fish, anchovy or other sauce, such as