RESTAURANT OVERCHARGES. A message from the Qucem, expressing her interest in national kitchens, because «he feels certain that they will be of the greatest service to the country during the food difiieulty, was delivered by Lord Rhondda when he opened a kitchen at Poplar yesterday. He was satisfied that we were going to do great things with these kitchens. Alderman Spencer, the director, believed that \flfrhin two months there would be 1,000 throughout the country, and 2,000 within three months, if the equipment could be obtained. These kitchens were a war insurance, and how far they had come to stay he would not predict. But he hoped that when people got accustomed to them, and found that they could get food cheaper and better cooked, and with less trouble in horpe life, the habit would bo permanently established. They were put forward as a business propositioii on self- supporting lines, and for all classes. There would be nothing of the taint of oharity about them. THE LONG, STRONG ARM. We had had a good many complaints of high restaurant charges, said Lord Rhondda. They were being investigated and the whole matter was being looked into by the Ministry. The arm of the Food Controller was fairly long, and his grip fairly strong when it got hold. He wanted io interfere as little as possible with the business of the country, but if it was found that restaurants were making undue profits and charging extravagantly he would have to take the strongest action. Perhaps the Ministry might establish restaurants, and so help to bring down the charges. Lord Rhondda confessed that he had ex- pected that after he had been at the Minis try nine months he would be kicked out and hung on the nearest lamp-post. In- stead, the public had rallied to his sup port. The Ministry were not influenced bv any political consideration in granting a supplementary ration to manual workers. He gave up political ambition years ago, arid so long as he was Minister considera- tions of party polities would net weigh with his department one iota. He had been advised by the War Committee of the RoyaJ Society that manual workers re- quired it, and that brain workers did not. If an equal weight of evidence was brought on the other side he would re- consider his decision. There were now 47 national kitchens in London, 75 in Greater London, and. 250 in the whole of the country. Condensed Milk Controlled. All canned condensed milk which is in O reat Britain and in the hands of manu- facturers at the close of business, on March 31 will be taken possession of by the Food Controller. After April 1, occupiers of 'every factory or workshop engaged either wholly or partly in the manufacture of con- densed milk must place the whole of their output at his disposal. HOME RATIONS. ■DAILY MENUS AND PRACTICAL COOKERY HIN1S. By Mrs. Alfred Praga. Sweets for Two or Three. Delioious Milk emitting.—Half a pint o touk, flavoured with a few drops of esscnc ot vanilla or lemon, and a- tablespoonful o wen-washed nee will make a delicious pud dins tor two, if tbe dish is thicklv lined wit] honey or syygar. or. when it can be sot. jap or golden syrup. If you have no rice us t*o tab 1 espoonsful of fine, stale crumbs o tour tablespoons!'ul of previously cockec oatmeal or maize. Sago or tapioca can als be used instead of rice. Xot=>: If you wan ** pudding cooked to perfection plac i co piedisri in t-lie oven in a baking-tin bal