HOME RATIONS. DAILY MENUS AND PRACTICAL COOKERY HINTS. By Mrs. A If fed Praga. Sweets for Two or Three. Delicious Milk Pudding.—Half a, pint of (milk, flavoured with a, few drops of essence of vanilla or lemon, and a- tablespoonful of well-washed rice will make a delicious pud- ding for two, if the dish is thickly lined with honey or syjigar, or. when it can be got, jam or golden syrup. If you have no rice use two tablespoonsful of fine, stale crumbs or four tablespoonsful of previously cooked oatmeal or maize. Sago or tapioca can also l>e used instead of rice. Note: Tf you want *. milk pudding cooked to perfection place, the piedish in the oven in a baking tin half full of boiling water. Cook very slowly for 2} hours, then finish on the hot rack for half an hour. Short Pastry.—Add a.pinch of salt to 6oz. of self-raising flour. Then add by degrees just- enough oil (frying oil will do if you cannot get salad oil) to mix to a rather stiff paste, roll out and use. This makes 9t delicious and very short pastry. If you cannot get jam, use sypgar as a filling, or hones', and grate*a little nutmeg on top. or nse tinned pineapple, cut small arid made hot in a basin in the oven. Date Tart.—Four to 6oz. of Tates, stoned *,nd stewed gently in a, little milk. No sugar required. When very soft ami boiling hot use to fill the tart. Strawberry Apples.—A sweet which does not need cooking 13 strawberry apples. Wash two apples. Dry well. Cut a small lid off the top of each. Scoop out nearly <wl the inside, leaving the outside intact. Mix the pulp with, a tablespoonful of straw- berry syrup and replace it. If y<iu want to make the sweet more substantial, mix a, dessertspoonful of rice with the apple pulp And syrup if you cannot get jam. New Way With Rioe.-Try this French way »r serving rice. Well wash and cook 4oz. of rice till very tender. Drain ofi' the water. Do not throw it away, use for the day's «oup. Add a full quarter of a bottle of strawberry or raspberry syrup to the rice. IWix well. If you can get it, add a little (grated oocpannt on top and serve. This is equally good, hot or cold. Maize meal, is excellent cooked in the same way. A Bread Sweet.—Try this sweet when you. jiave nothing .but bread in (he house. «» of spoonful of milk. Half a bottle of straw- !>frr? ®yrn£ Mix- . Pile UIJ high in centre of dish. Pom’ a little more syrup round base.: serve. No ono will ever guess its flvigm. To-morrow: Meals for One. WAR-TIME GARDENING. BROAD BEANS THAT WILL GROW ANYWHERE. The only beans that it is safe to sow out of pool's at present (this iu reply to several readers) are the broad beans. The first Rowing of these should have been made in ■Iannary, if not last autumn; the subsequent. Rowings may be continued with advantage up to mid-April. Broad beaus will, roughly speaking, grow anywnore; good crops cam be obtained from' stiff clay, if it has boen well broken, or from very light and poor soils. In the latter oase, however, the beans should be well watered when in active growth, and, if possible, mulched with short manure aud j'lven a tew doses of liquid fertiliser of some sort. Sow the seed 2in. deep, from 6 to 9in, apart, in rows a foot or more apart. The broad bean will ripen easily where ft grows, and can then be stored for winter use. I11 a wet autumn it may be necessary to dry the later beans in the kitchen oven or over the range. Scalded or soaked iu water for a few hours these dried beaus T112.K© excellent soups or a plea-sant changre vegetable. BOTANICUS. GIRLS RIGHT TO RATION CARD. & young woman told Mr. Canceilor yes- terday 'that she recently left hqtae, and that her father now refused to let her have her food ration card. The magistrate directed a police officer to warn the father that he was placing himself in a serious position, and that if he declined to giv& up the ticket, a summons would he jggaexU 1