hen add 00 to )ve index reads If the reading ad been 740,600, umption would jbic feet. Read and check waste. CDAILY home rations. MENUS AND PRACTICAL COOKERY HINTS. By Mrs. Alfred Praga. Cookery for Hard-op Households. Carrot and Sausage Stew.—41b. sausages, lib. carrots. 41b. onions, 21b. or 51b. potatoes. Pcrape and slico carrots, peel onions and potatoes. Cool! till very tender. Drain; reserve. Boil sausages for 30 minutes >n the water catrots and onions were cooked in; d-ain Put an ounce of any kind, of fat in a pan; melt; add sausages. Fry to a golden brown.. Take out, keep hot. Add a tahle- ■ spoonful of flour to the fat. in the pun; fry for five minutes. Add by degrees half a I pint of the vegetable water; boil up. Bon- tinue boil ins for a full eight minutes; add t the vegetables. Mi::; season to taste. Slice j the sausages; mix in. and serve. Note.— 1 ne U water from the vegetables and sausages ( makes an excellent soup if thickened with | oatmeal or barley flour. Seamen’s Pic.—A coupon’s worth of cheap- est beef, a coupon’s worth of suet. lib. carrots, two large onions, 21b. potatoes, Jlbi . flour. Peel and slice carrots, onions and; I potatoes; rook together in a Very little I water; drain; season Chop into squares I roughly: cook a little. Mix in the minced1 II beef; season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of sieved sweet herbs, and a little I grated lemon rind. Put into a large basin, cover with the suet crust. Boil for 54 hours. Bread and Meat Pie,—lib. stale bread, ono coupon's worth of any kind of meat or liver, 21b. potatoes, 21b. carrots. Boil the carrots and potatoes, mash, the potatoes with a little of the carrot water. Bun carrots through mincer , run meat through mincer. Peel and chop *lb. of onions. Put the mashed potato. &c„ in a dish; arrange the. mince on top. Pour tiie hot vegetable water over the . stale bread; leave till soft, squeeze dry. t Add the onions to the bread with a heaped | spbjinful of chopped parsley or a quarter ; ieaspc.onful of sieved sweet herbs. Season to < ).:;stc with pepper and salt; beat up well. ! ll possible, ad 1 2oz. of minced suet or fat. ■ will) the mixture. Scatter a ■ur atoned nr oat-crumbs on top. tit ;i. few bi;.».-.’ dripping on .top. Bake in Moderate oven • ;r gold.-.'.! brown, and serve, /biorrow: War:7ir.i Purlding3 for Children. iad your ster. on to the top ing the four in their order, the figures in^ s. \en two fi| the L -\ 9 and 0 always ive