11 MAMMA, Tumours of. Note —The more common are abscess (acnte and chronic), cysts, cancer, adenoma, &c. The less usual are hyda- tids, fibrous, cartilaginous, and osseous growths. Observe age, appearance, and general health. Married or single. Number of chilcben, and age of youngest. Any abortion or miscarriage. Has breast been used in nursing. Cata- menia present or ceased, and if ceased, when. First appearance of growth, and assigned cause. Rate of pro- gress. Pain or not. State of skin as regards colour and fixture to surface of gi-owth. Condition of' the veins and glands. Mobility or fixture. Shape. Nipple normal or retracted. Efi"ects of traction on the nipple as regards the tumour. Any discharge from nipple. Any ulcer or sinus, and if former, its character. Fluctuation, weight, hard- ness, or irregularity of the growth. Any oedema. Well or ill defined. Possibly puncture may be employed. Is other breast sound ? MVTJS. jvfoTE.—Arterial, venous, or mixed. Seat, size, and shape. Tissues involved. Effects of compression. Congenital or not. Eate of increase. Is skin involved? Is growth circumscribed, consolidated, or ulcerated ? Any pulsation, thrill, or bruit. OYAEIAN TUMOURS. Note.—Pregnancy (age, appearance, eatamenia, state of breasts and uterus; foetal movements or sounds; morning sick- ness; congested condition of mucous membrane of vagina). Age. Expression of face, natural or pinched. Emaciation. Cachexia. Catamenia. Number of family, and age of last born. Point where growth first observed (central or lateral). Pain and uriuary disturbance at outset and since. Vomiting or dyspnoea. Temperature of skin and state of pulse. Inspection. Prominence of growth (central or lateral, and any alteration of position or size or shape in various postures). Smoothness or irregularity of surface. State of veins. Any cedema. Measurement at level of umbilicus (circu- larly and of each half), at most prominent part of tumour, and from umbilicus to sternum and to symphysis, and to each anterior superior spine. , Percussion along outline and surface of growth, and of the flanks when patient is on her back with shoulders raised, and