12 when they are depressed and pelvis raised. Superficial and deep. Sense of resistance. Palpation of tumour. Any sensitiveness or special sensation (as of fremitus). Consistence as regards hardness, elasticity, fluctuation, &c., and the limits of such conditions. Num- ber of tumours (cysts or solid). Moveability of tumour as regards overlying tissues and deeper parts. Possibility of pushing it from side to side, of rais- ing it up from below, and of separating the abdominal walls from its surface. Vaginal examination to determine existence of discharges; state of OS; position of uterus, whether drawn up, thrust down, or carried laterally, and its relationship to the growth. Uterine sound to discover depth and direction of uterine cavity, and the moveability of the uterus with or independently of the tumour. Any bulging of fluid into Douglas' space. Tapping if required, and character of fluid as regards appear- ance, specific gravity, tenacity, albuminous character, and microscopic elements. It is always to be remembered that pregnancy may co-exist with, various tumours. SCROTUM, Tumours in. Note.—Is it oedema, hernia, hydrocele, haematocele, varicocele, cancer, elephantiasis, or an affection of the testes we have to do with? (See each of these.) Observe the state of the external ring, cord, veins, and skin. The condition of the inguinal glands. The history and progress of the aiTection. The consistence and feeling of tumour when handled. Shape, weight, effects of position and cough. Possibility of reduction. Tran- sparency. Any special pain or pressure. Any ulcera- tion, and if so, the appearance of the exposed surface. Unilateral or bilateral. SKULL, Fracture of the. Note.—Seat; cause (kind of violence, its direction and force). Immediate and subsequent symptoms in the order of their evolution. Degree and continuance of unconsciousness. Any wound. Any loss of brain matter. Any injury of bone to be,felt. If depression of bone, describe it. Any paralysis, local or general (special senses). Any ecchy- mosis of eyeball, or bleeding by ear, mouth, nose, or into tissues of neck. If from ear, its amount and continuance, and if followed by serous fluid. Pulse. Temperature. Respiration. Vomiting. Delirium. Treatment. Daily report of progress.