10 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Note.—Acuteness or reverse of symptoms. Their duration and exact character. Any indications of a tubercular or hysterical diathesis. Any hernia now or formerly. Any history of abdominal inflammation, dysentery, ulcera- tion, or gallstones. Any tumour felt in groins or else- where. Explore the rectum by hand, bougie, or stream of water. In female, see to condition of uterus. State of belly as regards swelling (its exact seat), tension, pain (its nature and seat). If vomiting, its duration and character. State of constipation and its duration, and nature of last motion. Condition of loins as regards frdness and percus- sion. Note.—Any movements of bowel seen, or borborygmi heard. Any hiccup. Amount of urine secreted. Constitutional disturbance, as evidenced by temperature, pulse, aspect, &c. lEEITABILITY OF THE BLADDER. Note. —A symptom of many ailments. Any pain, and if so, where. Cause may lie in prepuce, urethra, prostate, bladder, ureter, or kidney. See especially as to stricture of urethra, enlargement of prostate, foreign bodies in bladder, and the condition of the urine. The cause may be in the nerve centres, in the diet or the digestion, or in the drugs employed. JOINTS, Disease of. Note.—Diathesis. Assigned cause. Duration. Symptoms in the order of their development, and the treatment pursued. Change of shape, size, &c., as compared with correspond- ing articulation. If any swelling, did it precede or follow the pain, and is it uniform or irregular ? Seat and degree of pain, and if it is aroused by special movements, or by pressure on particular spots, or by impinging the articular surfaces. Is it acute, or of a gnawing toothachy charac- ter, aggravated at night? Degree of motion present. Any displacement of bones. State of skin, glands, and muscles. Development of limb above and below the jomt. Any involuntary starting. Information got by palpation. Any fluctuation, elasticity, or grating. Any sinuses, and, if so, then- number, position and depth. Nature of dis- charge, if any. Constitutional symptoms. Treatment, and its effects.