6 ANEURISM (External Arterial). Note.—Seat; single or multiple; cause, spontaneous or traumatic; early symptoms and progress; circumscribed or diifiise; its shape, size, consistence, and compressibility; tbe efifect of pressure proximal and distal, and on the tumour; auscultatory signs ; condition of the heart and great vessels, and especially of the artery correspond- ing to that affected. State of the circulation distal to the tumour. Nature and degree of pulsation. Any thrill; state of the skin over tumour; pain or other pressure eifects on function, temperature and sensibility. Any oedema. ANTRUM, Tumours op. Note.—(a) Muid or (h) solid contents, simple or malignant. Any inflammation at outset. Any bulging of the walls of the cavity towards the eye, nose, mouth or cheek, and, if so, the character of such swelling and its consistence. Any " egg shell " crackle, or other peculiar sensation caused when pressure is applied over it. Any "pointing." Is lachrymal duct free ? Any pain, and its seat. State of skin. Any discharge from nostril or tooth socket. Any diseased tooth or any fungus from alveolus. Eapidity of growth, and state of general health. Any gland implica- tion. Information got by exploring needle. BLADDER, Diseases of. Note.—Mode of seizure, and supposed cause. Get par- ticulars as to micturition,—its frequency, difficulty, size of stream, &c. Whether there has been retention or incontinence. What constitutional disturbance. If pain, its exact seat and relation to the act of micturition. Examine the state of urethra, prostate, and kidneys. Analyse the urine (see "Urine"). Enquire as to blood or other deposits, and examine sediments with microscope. Explore bladder with sound or catheter. See '' Calculus " and " Irritabdity " of bladder, and " Hasmaturia." BONE, Disease of. Note.—Exact part affected; one bone or more; cause, whether injury or not; duration ; early and later symptoms; seat and character of pain; extent, depth, and form. If sequestrum present, is it loose, and what sinuses lead to it. Information got by use of probe. Condition of soft parts. Any syphilitic history, and, if so, was mercury used in its treatment.