Books Printed for S■ Highley, 24, fleet-street. I. A TREATISE on HERNIA HUMORALIS; or swelled Testicle, to which are added, Remarks on Opacity of the Cor- nea, elucidated by cases. By Thomas Luxmoore. 12mo. 2s. If. A PRACTICAL MATERIA MEDICA, in which the various articles are fully described, and divided into Classes and Orders according totheir Effects. Their Virtues, Doses, and the Diseases in which they are proper to be exhibited, are fully pointed out. Interspersed with some practical Remarks, and some select T ormuls. r\ o which is added, a General Posological Table. Intended principally for the use of Students and Junior Prac- titioners. One volume 12mo. price 5s. in boards. “ A performance well calculated to be useful to Students and Practitioners.”—Critical Review, April, 1809. III. ANATOMICAL EXAMINATION ; a complete Sc- ries of Anatoipical Questions, with Answers. The Answers arranged so as to form an Elementarv System of Anatomy, and intended as preparatory to Examinations at Sur- geons’ Hall. rIo which are annexed. Tables of the Bones, Muscles, and Arteries, 2 vols. small Svo. price 10s. 6d. boards. “ It is rather extraordinary that a book containing so much anatomical knowledge should appear without an Author’s name. The work is a kind of Anatomical Catechism, or, like the Pupil and Tutor’s Guide, the first volume containing the Questions* the second the Answers to them ; and the second alone may be used as an Elementary System of Anatomy. The plan is very judicious, and the quantity of matter compressed, by small and very neat printing, into the two volumes, is really extraordinary.” British Critic, September 1808. IV. AN ESSAY, addressed to Medical Students, on .the im- portance and utility of the Profession; and on the urgent Necessity there is for them to obtain a more perfect Knowledge of its dif- ferent Branches than is acquired by Pupils in general, &c. &c. foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d sewed. “This is a well meant effusion of an intelligent and well- educated Practitioner, who is deeply affected with the murder- ous ignorance of the inferior classes of the Medical Tribe. We sincerely wish that all Students in medical science or art would read this little Essay, which, although not distinguished by any brilliancy or w it of sentiment, is yet replete with good sense, most salutary advice, and considerable experience in medical tuition. A strict observance of the precepts here inculcated must infallibly produce a good member of society, a skilful prac- titioner (particularly in Surgery, which appears to be the branch- contemplated by the writer) and lead to well-founded feme and fortune.”—Anti-Jacobin Review, October, 1808. V. TheNEWCHEMICALNOiVlENCLATURE,selected from the most distinguished modern Writers on Chemistry, de- signed for the use of Students in Pharmacy, Druggists, Apotheca- ries, and others: inTwo Parts; the first of which exhibits the Srr- entific Arrangements in English and Latin, and thesocond contains the same in English, disposed in alphabetical order. In both parts, the Old Names will be found on the right-hand Column* opposite the New. The Second Edition, by C. Pye, Chemist, Svo. price is. 6d.