y •■,3Sr Jft 1 ^ f»lK% -:• ■ >■ ' ^ A Ss JcXA i7 %B ' ,.T' / ', TmM.aiasQOVV mnivei’sit^ Xibrar^ jfecguson Collection 1921Q V U ! t ^ C( v-> ?3 « r(ktr^j 4/«^ ^w^' /^z5 A-/^. /.^ •Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 Hr- https://archive.org/details/b24927260STalieUa Miliaria. THE BItL OF FARE A LATIN POEM, IMPLICITLY TRANSLATED AND FULLY EXPLAINED IN COPIOUS AND INTERESTING NOTES, RELATING TO THE PLEASURES OF © ^ Si © AND THE MYSTERIOUS ART OF Ipsa meuior praicepta canani; celabitur anctor.—Hor. iLontiolu PUBLISHED BY SHEIUVOOD, NEELY, AND JONES, PATER- noster row; j. robins and co. ivy lane, paternoster row; and sold by ^ All booksellers. 1S20.Bobina and Sana, I’rintera, 57, Tooley Street l\yAilve.R5'^'^TO THE READER. —♦— This little Poem was written several years ago in an idle hour and at the solicitation of a few friends mostly foreigners, who challenged the author upon the appa- rent impossibility of expressing, in decent Latin verses, the curious and pleasingly tangible variety of dishes which French eating-houses and hotels lavishly dis- play upon their long and hardly intelligible Bills of Fare. A translation into English was proposed as a convenient appendage; but the Author declaring him- self exclusively fond of original and genuine dishes; and a translation being, at all times, and at best, what the French call “ un rechauffe,” this laudable suggestion was set aside. The Notes, at the end, are explanatory of the Poem—and yet may be read without it. They are especially intended to afford instruction and amuse- ment. The commentators humbly trust that they will not fall short of that intention.IV Though apparently trifling and insignificant in its object, this little jeu d’esprit” may howeyer prove an useful companion to classic, and other, travellers, since they may find in it an elucidation of many of the mysteries in which the curious art of cookery in this and other countries generally consists. Being himself a conscious Gastronomer, the writer anticipates a sort of reward for his spontaneous exer- tions, in the pleasing idea and congenial hope, that many of his readers may, through the means of his performance, be enabled to select dishes less inacces- sible to their understanding, and more suitable to their respective tastes. June 24, 1820.REFERENCES TO THE VERSES OF THE POEM. LA CARTE. '2TabeIta Clljaria. the bill of fare. 5 Potages. Sorhilla, Soup. Porridge. 7 Potage au riz* Oryxa. Broth and rice. 7 Soupe aux choux. Caulis cum came. Broth and cabbage. S Soupe inaigre. Except^ came. Herb-pottage. 9 Soupe i la tortue. Testudo, Turtle and mock-turllc. 13 Bouilli aunaturel. Bubulasine condimento. Plain boiled beef. 14 Bouilli cL la sauce. Bubula condita. Boiled beef with gravy. 16 Filet de boEuf roti. Tergora bovU, Sirloin. 17 Poularde au riz. Gallina cum oryza. Pullet and rice. 19 Oie rotie. Tarpeius ales. Goose. 21 Canard aux navets, Anas aim napis, ^c. Duck with turnips, &c. 23 Fricandeau k Pozeille. Eitulina cumrumice. Stewed veal and sorrel. 25 Fricassde de poulct. Pullus cot\frixus. Fricassee of chicken. 27 Cotelettes de veau en pa- Vitulinee costula. Veal cutlets, & la Slain- pillotes. tenon. 30 Vole-au-vent. Artocrea. Raised meat pye. 31 Foie de veau. ViluliJecuT, CalPs liver. 34 fioeuf k la mode. Bovilla ad solitum rno- A-la-raode beef. dum. 35 Palais de bceuf. Juvencorum palati. Ox’s palate. 40 Riz de veau. Pancreas. Sweetbread. 41 Cotelettes dc mouton. Kervecis costula. Mutton chops. 43 Ccrvellc et hachis de Cerebrum et camis ovinee Brains and minced mat- mouton. minutal. ton.VI 4H Langue de mouton. Ovis lingua. Sheep’s tong\tc. 47 Blanquetle de veau. Vitulina iubalbicans. Hashed veal. 50 T6te de cochon farcie. Cervix farta suia. Pig’s head stuffed. 51 Jambon. Pema. Ham. 63 Petit sal^ et porc- Sus coTidita sale et nuda Pickled pork and roast frais. sale. pork. 56 Hochepotaux saucissons Caulia cum tucetis. Sausage and cabbage. 57 Veau roti. Assa vitulina. Koast treal. 59 Epaule de mouton aux haricots, &c. Annus ovis etfabcc, 5rc. Shoulder of mutton with French beans, &c. 61 Pieds de cochon. Pedes et ungues Suis, Pettitoes. 62 Boudin noir. Botellus. Black pudding. 63 Eognons et queues de mouton. Renes et Caudte Mdentum.Kidneys and sheep’s tails. 64 Queues deboeuf. Caud<B b<mnce» Bullock’s tail. 68 Bouilli froid. Bubula heatema. Cold boiled beef. 70 Faisan. Avis Phasiaca. Pheasant. 72 Coqde bruy4re. Tetrax, Moor-cock. 73 Perdrix. Pcrdix, Partridge. 74 Lievre. Lepus. Hare. 75 Caille. Cotumix, Quail. 78 Grive. Turdus, Thrush. 79 Pigeon ramier. Palumbes. Wood-pigeon. 80 Pigeon biset. Columha. Common pigeon. 81 Pigeons en compbte. Exudat in olid. Stewed pigeons. 82 Pigeons h la crapaudine . Devota craticulce. Broiled pigeons. 85 Dindonroti. Meleagrides tost<s. Roast turkey. 86 Dindon aux truffes. Cum tuberibus. Turkey \vith truffles. 88 BUcasse. Rusticula, Woodcock. 89 Bteassine. Scolopax, Snipe. 91 Venaison. Cervits, Dama. Venison. 93 Lapin. Cuniculus, Rabbit. 98 Sahmon. Salmo, Salmon. 99 Merlan. Albumus. Whiting. 99 Raie au beurre noir. Squatina. Skate with burnt butter. 100 Morue fraiche et salei. Capita ct salsus Asellui Cod and salt fish. 101 Pile. Passer. Plaicevn 102 Afaquereaii, 103 Hareng sore. 104 Afoules. 105 Hareng frais. 108 Huitres. 109 Homar. no Chevrette. 111 Goiyon, Barbcau^ Mulct. 112 Perche. 114 Tenche. 115 Anguille. 120 Brochet. 134 Truite. 135 Dorade. 136 Turbot. 137 Esturgeon. 140 Cacpe. 153TF«v^s. 155 Haricots. 157 Asperge. 168 Artichaud. 173 Lentilles. 175 Epinards. 175 Celeri. 176 Betrave. 177 Pommes de terrc. 184 (Eufs. 185 (Eufs pochds. 188 (Eufs k la coquc. 190 (Eufs k la ncigc. 191 (Eufs frits. 102 (Eufs au xniroir. 193 (Eufs kl’6zeiUe,k la tripe, klachicorde, omelette aux fines hcrbes. 103 Beignets aux pommes. Scomhirr. Halei:, Musculut, Halec stne sale. Ostrccc. Locusta, Squilla. Gokio, harhatus, mullus. Perea. Tinea, Anguilla, Lucius. Carpio. Zeus. Rhombus, Elops, Cyprinus, Fab<B, Phaselus. Asparagus. Cinara. Lentes. Spinaeeee. Solaria. Beta. Solanum. Ova. Ovum in cochleari. Ova tn aqud cocta. Ova sub verbere qtuissa. Frigitur ovum. Ova cocta in patella. Ova cum lapatho, cepd, cichored, et tenuibits herbis. Mala sub lagano. Mackerel. Red herring* Muscles Fresh herring. Oysters. Lobster. Shrimp. Gudgeon, barbel, mullei. Perch. Tench, Eel. Pike. Trout, John doree. Turbot. Sturgeon* Carp. Beans. French beans. Asparagus. Artichoke. Lentils* Spinach. Celery. Beet-root. Potatoes. Eggs. Poached eggs. Boiled eggs. Trifles. Fried eggs. Eggs on an earthen pan. Eggs with sorrel, onions, endive j omelet with parsley, &c. Apple-fritters*viii 197 Pain de riz. Oryza. Rice-pudding. 196 Patisserie. Placenta. Tarts, pies, &c. 199 Bcignets soufl^s. , Monialia rnunera, •• Puffs. 212 Fromagede Chester. Caseus Cestriensis, Cheshire cheese. 213 Fromage de Glocester. Caseus Sabrinensis, Gloucester cheese. 216 Chataignes. Castanece. Chestnuts. 216 Noix. Ntices. Walnuts. 217 Raisins. Racemi, Grapes. 218 Abricots. ^^alu$ aprica. Apricots.®atifna Cibarta. Quas nec gustavit, nec novit Apicius unquam, Hic canit innumeras Musa jocosa dapes. Quis qualisve siet G.... coquus impiger arte, Non ego, sed melius fercula lauta probant. En tria mirificam linquent Sorbilla culinarn ^ Ad libitum, quodris si modo voce vocas. Primum ut Oryza facit; Caulis cum came secundum j Tertium, ^texceptCi carne, ministrat Olus. Prajteream, referamne tuum, Testudo, saporem Magnatum mensas quae decorare soles ? ic Ilinc procul a nostris remanes aliena palatis, Dum mendax titulo stat Vitulina tuo.2 Biibula turn sequitur simplex, sine condimenio ; Si condiia placet, ne crucieris, adest. Non. quacumque die, certis sed tosta diebus, In verubus sudant Tergora obesa Bovis. Quae fuit ah! gallus^ Gullinum fulcit oryzu. Sic quondam vates vir mulierque fuit. Qui impavidos clanxit Gallos Tarpeius Ales, Hie vitare avidos, dente vorante, nequit. Hie circum.septus Nupis producitur; illic, Cepula quern sepit, saepe superbit Anas. Rumice cum riridi jacet hie Vitulina, fneando Obsccenos dentes qui renitere dabit. Confrixus calidh gallus, fit Pullus in oll^ : Medeam JSsonem sic renovasse ferunt. Cincinno similis vituUncB Costula tostae Pane, apio, et charth fumat amicta su^. Nonne placet venio lexior, similisque volanti, Fumans e clibanorcum redit Artocrea? All Vituli, coelo qui non detraxent ignem, Te piget innocuum dilacerarc Jecur?Quam sectantis acum transfiguiit spicula lardi Pnesto est ad solitum cocta Bovilla viodum. Yisne juvencorum molles tentare Palutos? 35 Hos pete ; nulla In eis Colchica flamma latet; Nostrates depasti herbas in margine rivi, Thessalicae ignorant gramina saeva magae. Htc quandoque tibi torrebitur, ossium et expers Pancreas^ et quo nil suavius esse potes. -JO Irrigat ardentes Vervecis costula prunas, Proque uno venum tosta triente datur. Cerebrum cupias, carnisve Minutal evince^ Posce prius : cerebri plus satis esse nequit. Gaudet ovis lapatho, fulvoque legumine Lingua 45 Quod mea complecti carmine Musa vetat. Quas concocta tibi vituUna subalbicat, offam Olla, Here, cum butyro miscet ahena novo. Hie Meleagraei cervix producitur Apri Nulla, sed indigenae non male farta Suis. 50 Nunquid amas sapidam,quam vestit purpura, Quamquc aluit fumo nigra culina suo ?4 Hic condita sale et circumdata caulibus adstat; Sudat et ad longum Sus sale nuda veru. Ecce iterum caaft's ! quot enim dat fercula nvensse 55 Brassica Tucetis quae comes esse solet. Heus ! puer, assaturne caro vitulina ?—subinde. Ocius assantur Tergus et Armus ovis. Annus ovis mollem thalamum cui saepe mipistrant Exilesve^a6<^5 vel cichorea levis. ^ 6C » Unguibus ipsafamem pellet, pedibusque suis 5ms, Et tibi, cum fusca pelle, Botellus adest. Elige, seu tostos renes, caudasve Bidentum ; Vel quibus abduxit furta bovina latro, Qui sub Aventina insidiatus rupe, retrorsum 6. Callidus Herculeum traxit ad antra pecus. Smpe coronatos apio, nunc frigida, discos Hesternis onerat Bitbula cocta focis. Hue tibi Phasiaco veniet de flumine nulla, Aurea quam nitidam torques adornat avem. 7 Hfic nec Hyperboreis fuscus raittetur ab oris TetraXf uxores qui uberat ore suas.o Nullave lethifero plumbi sub fulmine Perdix Lapsa; aut quadrupedum gloria prima Lepus.” Nec qua; Judasas, coelo demissa, Coturnix 75 EscA, nutrivit, deficiente, tribus. iEgide pampineA tectus, vel segmiue lardi, Nullus ibi gaudet Tiirdus adire focum. Nec pro te arboreA rapitur de frotide Palumbes, At vitare veru casta Co/mw6a nequit; 80 Compositos lente succos exudat in olla, Aut devota subit victima craticulam. Occiduos linquent moestae Meleagrides Indos, Quae lugent fratris, veste nigrante, necem; Ast nobis raro verubus iorreniur acutis ; 85 Membra vel iuAciunt pinguia Tuheribus. Tuta inter junceta manet, longumque manebit Rusticula baud morsu dilaceranda tuo. IIic nec praeloiigo Scolopax celeberrima rostro Irrigat appositos, ventre liquente, rogos. 90 Nec venatorum, vel Cemis, Damave, praeda, Ornabunt lances, munera opima, tuas.Ast Immili pastus si caule Cuniculus adsit, Hunc jurant inter delituisse feras. Si minis arrident carnalia fercula, posce 95 Quas mittit varias Nereis alma dapes. Coccinea interdumj squamis argenteus, exta Craticula, torret Salmo, calente, sua. Frigitur Albwnus ; butyro sed Squatinu nigrat; Insulsus Capita et salsus Asellus adest. 100 Hie Rhombo similis, maculoso et tergore Passer^ Infamique pudens nomine Scomber erit: Hic tostus prodit, pisis comitantibus, Halec, Cumque domo in butyrum Musculus hospes abit. Halec, quern nec sal tetigit nec fumus adussit, 105 Inyocat ardores, acre sinapi, tuos. Hic scopulis avulsa suis tibi rara patebit Ostrea, at interdnm sumitur ante dapes. Nec tibi curvabit lances monstrosa Locustce Cauda, sed eliciet parvula Squilla sitim. 110 Gobio, Barbatus, Mullus, genus omne natantum E fluriis venient, Nais arnica, tuis.Rubris Perea subit pinnis, nigra iuclyta cauda ; Tinea petit butyrum, tincta colore, novum. Nunc Anguilla tenax vitae damnatur ad ollam, 116 Quam caesam in partes olla tenere nequit: Se rotat, et volvit, medios et saltat in ignes, Ac si speraret se superesse sibi. At notus lacuum terror, stagnique vorago, Lueius ad superas gestiet ire domos ; 120 Coctus ubi in vino, cum cepa, apioque virenti, Cum pipere et mic^ dissiliente salis. Alba, suffultus mappa, similisque minanti, Ostentat dentes, ore rigente, suos. Coenosos inter lucos, feedasque paludes, 126 Olim praedator Lucius ille fuit: Insidians teneris, sera sub nocte, puellis, Et Nymphae jactans proposuisse dolos : Indignata diu non pertulit horrida monstri Crimina—at ultores invocat ilia Deos. 130 J upiter in piscem mutavit, et occulit undis ; At remanet praeda3, qui fuit ante, furor.8 Vallibus irriguisj ripis et amicus amoenisj Raro pro nobis Curpio carpet acum j Rarius, aut numquam proponitur auratus 2e«s; 135 Magnave Damnoniae gloria Rhombus aqu£. Hirtus Elops, qui se multis provolvit in undis, Exiguas spernit caesus adire casas; Integer ad mensas incedit et ore minatur, Muria dum nigrum condit amara jecur. 140 Tranquillos saltern linquet quels nascitur amnes Cypj'inils, a pulchra Cypride nomen habens. Olim notus erat nullo cognomine piscis : Quis celebrem fecit fabula prisca docet. Quaerebat Venerem, nivei sub imagine Cycni, 145 Jupiter in gremio, Candida Leda, tuo; Cum subito advolitat coelo Junonlus ales, Perfungens dominae conscia jussa sueb. Vidit, ut affini piscis ludebat in undil, Et nigrum Cycni vellicat ore pedem ; 150 Sensit, et auratas Deus, hoc pro munere, pisci Dat squamas ; nomen Cypris habere dedit.9 Qu^ fec^re Fabte Fabianae nomina genti Hie coctas Samius non vetat esse senex. Intumet ardenti saltatque Phaselus in oll3, 155 Qui nimium jEolii daminis intus habet. Hic jacet Asparagus viridi cervice renidens; Hic circum Cinaram spicula densa rigent. Illis Palladius liquor admiscetur Acelo f Molli vel butyro gaudet uterque suo. 160 Deperit Asparagus Martis de stirpe puellam ; Et Cinara horticolam deperit Asparagum. At pater indignans irS, insectatur amantes, Disparia et votis nectere vota negat. Urget amor : patrius crescit furor; ilia precatur; 165 Ille tonat rabidas, ore sonante, iliinas. Quid faciam ? Gradive, precor, succurre puellae; Si tibi nota Venus, notus Amorque tibi est, Dixit, et innumeris subito circumdatur hastis; Et pater attonitus pangere vota sinit. 170 Ambo inter cyathos sic sorte fruuntur e^dem : Nec quos vinxit amor, jungere mensa vetat. c10 At mihi non sordent fusca ferruglne Lentes Qua) steterunt tanto fcenore, Esave, tibi. Spinacece yirides, albique Solaria caule ; 175 Et Tyrio gaudens murice Beta subit. Tu quoque, Solanum, priscis ignota culinis Radix ; in nostro carmine nomen babes. Te Vespusiaco misit de littore Tellus Quam fervente sinu foverat ante suo : 180 Te viridis missam suscepit Hibernia in ulnas; Susceptam te gens omnis in orbe colit. PoLLTJCEM ex ovis quondam, cum Castore, natos Noveris, audacter tu tamen ova petis. Alba sub chlamyde ecce offert tibi cochlear ovum, 185 Septus ut argcnto ssepe topazus adest. ferunt, mollit Balearica turbine fun da j At melius calidd, crede, coquentur aqua. En Zephyro lexiora tument, niveoque colore Ova sub immiti verbere quassa nitent; 190 Sed meliora decent coenacula. Frigitur ovum : Aut veluti in speculo,” tersa patella coquit.11 Cum lajyulho, cepa, cichorea et tenuibus herbisj Unaque sub formis millibus ova placent. Sub flavo latitant lagano fragrantia mala, 195 Quae spargunt parci sacchara cana nive. Ultima quae prodit cum lacte tumescit Oryza ,* Aut levis ad rapidos cocta, placenta focos; Aut quae, pace tui, MoniaUa munera, Vesta, Dicuntur; Comus pnestitit ipse jocum. 200 Vestalis quondam cum percitus esset amore Virginis, occlusas constitit ante fores : Auscultans si quid faustive, malive sonaret; Aut quid, per rlmas, cernere posset amans. Hunc simul atque Tidet de celsa virgo fenestrS, 205 Melle et farre novo crustula mixta jacit; Undique sphaerarum referentia crustula formas, Virgineoque halitu turgida facta, pluunt; Sensit, et arrisit, quo nemo jocosior unquam, Comus, et inilixit nomina ficta cibo. 210 E XACTis dapibus, si vis, die Caseiis adsit Quern premit emulso Cestria lacte Pales.12 Aut quern viminibus secluso in littore finxit Villica, ubi Tirldes Sabrina Tolvit aquas. Denique, si qui sint, maturos elige fructus, Molles Castaneas, frangibilesve Nuces; Vel quos parca tibi suaves dabit ura Racemos; Pomare quas gremio Malus aprica fovet. At satis estj nec nostra cupit te Musa morari; Prandistin ?—sumptus solve tuos—et abi. ♦ 215 220NOTJESo Indocti discant et ament meininisse periti. Henault. Content if hence th’ unlearn’d their wants may view The learn’d reflect on what before they knew. Pope’s Ess. on CniT. 739. V. 1. Apicius. Three brothers of that name were known at Rome—but no otherwise than on account of their unparalleled, love of good livingj and their sump- tuous tables, daily loaded with an extravagant and ex- pensive show of dishes. Among other whimsical spe- culations to please their visitors, torment their rivals in the same line of folly, and gratify their own pride, these noted epicures sometimes presented ragouts ex- clusively composed of tongues of peacocks and nightin- gales. Once a large charger was brought in, with all the pomp usual at that time, tilled with 3000 small birds, each of which had been taught, at great ex- pence and trouble, to sing or speak; as if the ac- quired talents of these little creatures could have enhanced the delicacy of their flesh—or as if their warbling and innocent souls (to use here an ancjent and highly poetical expression), might have infused harmony and virtue into the breast of those brutal devourers of such costly meats.14 Pliny calls the second of these brothers, nepotum omnium altissimus gurges; “ the deepest gulph of the time,” as to high feeding and helluation, or professional gluttonism. He instituted a gorman~ dizing academy^ and wrote a treatise de opsoniis et condimentis, upon market-purchases and seasonings. His work still exists, and though exceedingly curious, gives a disgusting idea of what the art of cookery must have been among the Romans. Having heard that shrimps and pra^vns were of a much better flavour on the coasts of Africa than on the Italian shores, this celebrated and intrepid Gas- tronomer freighted a ship at his own expense; em- barked at Mintumum^ and boldly sailed in search of the renowned dainty. But his voyage had not the success he expected; for, alighting from the ship on the Libyan shore, he saw a poor fisherman preparing a dish of these far-famed marine insects, tasted a few of them, and, convinced of his mis- take, sailed immediately back to Italy, much disap- pointed of course, and terribly out of humour. It is reported that he spent more than sixty thousand pounds sterling merely to vary the taste of sauces; and that finding, after many other expensive expe- riments, that his follies had reduced his immense for- tune to the comparatively small sum of little more than one hundred thousand pounds—he poisoned him- sfelf. Apicius, the third of that name, Avas excessively fond of oysters. For them he used willingly to pay a most enormous price. Those of the Lucriue lake, of15 Drundusium and Abydos on the Hellespont, being reckoned by far the best, were sent as delicate pre- sents to men of great rank. The Emperor Trajan, when waging war against the Parthians, received from this Apicim several baskets or barrels of them. However extravagant and foolish the whims of those rich personages of ancient Rome may appear to a sober and sensible mind, we must, injustice to their taste, cursorily observe that there exists a material dilference between a gormand and a glut- ton, The first seeks for peculiar delicacy and distinct flavour in the various dishes presented to the judg- ment and enjoyment of his discerning palate; while the other lays aside nearly all that relates to the rational pleasure of creating or stimulating an appe- tite by the excellent quality of the cates, and looks merely to quantity. This has his stomach in view, and tries how heavily it may be laden without en- dangering his health. The gormand never loses sight of the exquisite organs of taste, so admi- rably disposed by Providence in the crimson cham- ber where sits the discriminating judge, the human tongue. The glutton is anathematized in the scripture with those brutes, quorum deus venter est. The other appears guilty of no other sin than of too great and too minute an attention to refinement in commensal sensuality. We find besides a curious shade between the French appellations gourmand and gourmet. In the idiom of that nation, so famous for indulging in the worship of Comus, the word gourmand means, as we stated16 above, a man who, by having accidentally been able to study the difierent tastes of eatables, does accor- dingly select the best food, and the most pleasing to his palate. His character is that of a practitioner, and answers to the appellation of an epicure in the full sense of the word, as we use it in English. The gourmet on the other hand considers the theoretical part of Gastronomy; he speculates more than he practises ; and eminently prides himself in discerning the nicest degrees and most evanescent shades of goodness and perfection in the different subjects pro- posed to him. In fact, the word gourmet has long been used to designate a man who, by sipping a few drops out of the silver cup of the vintner, can instantly tell from what country the wine comes, and its age. This denomination has lately acquired a greater lati- tude of signification, and not improperly, since it expresses 'what the two other words could not mean. From the foregoing observations we must conclude that the glutton practises without any regard to theory; and we call him Gastrophile. The gormand unites theory with practice, and may be denominated Gas- tronomer. The gourmet is merely theoretical, cares little about practising, and deserves the higher appel- lation of Gastrologer. We need not inform the classical reader that the Greek word gaster, means the stomachy and all that relates to it, in a more extensive and somewhat figurative sense. The words vo/xor, nomos, (ptXoy, pJti- ios, and Xoyor, logos, added to it, classify the practiciil, physical, and theoretical varieties.17 V. 2. Innumeras dupes. According to Horace, “ all licences have been allowed to poets and painters,” who have made, at all times and in all nations, a full exercise of that prerogative. Here the word in- numeras, numberless, is rather hyperbolical; and therefore not to be understood in a strict and arith- metical sense. The Bill of Fare,” which is but an extract and yet mentions about one hundred dishes, might have been swelled to a very considerable bulk, had not the author had the prudence to stop in time, and just before his reader would have felt disposed to oscitate. V. 3. Coquus impiger arte. The name of the cook at %vhose house the poem was originally thought of, is of no sort of interest to the reader, since he left England more than twenty years since. However, as the author hates mysteries in common things, he allows the commentators to say that the name was Guidon, and that he lived in the precincts of Leices- ter-square. Coquus IS also spelt cocmj. The etymology of this word has long been the torment of philologists ; but like the sources of the “ Father of Plenty,” the majestic stream which feeds the Egyptian sands, the origin of Cook is still enveloped in obscurity; and we enjoy the pleasures which the artist procures for us, just as well as if we knew more about it. Cooks at Athens and Rome, and other places of Greece and Italy, were commonly hired for the occa- sion, as they did not generally constitute an essential part in a domestic establishment. They stood in the u18 streets, or in the coquiniim forum, their arms negli- gently folded oil their half-naked breasts ; their aprons on, if they could afford to buy, or happened to steal, any; a few culinary attributes dangling at their sides; and, with chubby faces and red noses, (as their calling and professional operations give us reason to suppose,) impatiently and peevishly waiting till they were called in tb perform. An enumeration of that crowd of hirelings will be found in the following lines : Ad macellum uli advenimus Concurrunt ml elviam cupedinarii omnes, Ceiarii, coqui, fartores, piscalores, aucupes. Plautus. “ As soon as we come to the market-place, I am sur- rounded by confectioners, fishmongers, butchers, cooks, sausage-makers, fishermen, birdcatchers.” The circumstance of cooks being not in general, as mentioned above, a constituent part of a family, was the natural cause of their not being trusted with any utensils of value in the kitchen; for they commonly proved unfaithful to the confidence reposed in them. They were so apt to run away with kettles, forks, spoons, &c. that their thievish propensity nearly be- came proverbial. Plautus, in his most interesting comedy entitled Pseudolus, gives us a curious, and undoubtedly accurate, idea of what such a cook was in his time. Ballio^ a man of an infamous character, holds a parley with a cook w hom he wishes to hire ; and the fellow is one of the most boastingly jocose chaps in19 his trade. He asserts that his ragouts and fricassees possess such a flavour, and emit so delightful a scent, that, whenever he is employed, Jove himself makes a daily repast on the delicate perfume issuing from his curious dishes : Eum in odftrem ccenat Jupiter cotidie. But, says Ballio, Si numquam is cocium, quidnam ccenat Jupiter ? " If you remain unemployed, what has Jupiter to feed upon ? ” It inccenatus cubitum. “ Well, then, he goes to bed without his supper.” This unblushing rascal does not hesitate to ask, “ Do you expect to find a cook without the rapacidUs talons of a kite or an eagle ? ” An invenire postulas quemquam coquum. Nisi milvinis aut aquilinis unguihus ? From this it clearly appears that the word coquus^ in its diminutive coquinus, was adopted by the French, who call coquin a thief, a dishonest fellow, a man not to be trusted. By a passage in Cicero, Fam. ix. 20, we are led to understand that, among other miseries of life which constantly attended this consular personage and elo- quent orator, he laboured under the disappointment of not having an excellent cook of his own ; for he says: Coquus mens, prater Jus fervens, nihil potest imilari: « Except hot broth, my cook can do nothing cleverly.” Of all servants, however, cooks, though20 most useful, are often most abused : they are expected to guess what their masters like, and Martial says, with great propriety and truth : Non satis est ars sola coguoservire palalo, Atque coguus domini dehel habere gulam. “ The art of the cook avails him not to please his master, if he does not possess his master’s taste.” A French author obserres that, from the blaze and bustle of the kitchen, cooks half stewed and half roasted, when unable to work any longer, generally retire to some unknown corners, and die in forlornness and want. But he adds most emphatically, Corneille, the famous dramatic writer, had not a better fate, since he died in obscurity and distress ; and this similarity ought to contribute to their consolation !—Manuel des Amphitryons. When severity of manners and austerity of habits gave way to extravagance and luxury at the fall of the Roman Republic, cooks began to be better treated by their employers. The salary of some of them was nearly one thousand pounds sterling. M. Antony hearing Cleopatra (whom he had invited to a splendid supper, and who was as great a gormand as she was handsome) loudly praise the elegance and delicacy of the dishes, sent for the cook and presented him with the unexpected gift of a corporate town, Municipium. This man must have been as clever as Trimalcion, who, when rare and exquisite fishes M ere out of season, used to imitate them so well M'ith common ones, that Gastrologers were often deceived; and m’c have been21 told of a culinary artist, who, on Good Friday, made up for Louis XV. a dinner apparently composed of beef, veal, mutton, poultry, and game, well repre- sented by vegetables, “ accommodfes au maigre.” Such metamorphoses are still in vogue at great enter- tainments. V. 5. Sorbilla (from sorbere Lat. to swallow) means the mere secretion or dissolution of the various juices contained in the muscles and fat of animals, as bul- locks, calves, sheep, chicken, &c. in a menstruum of boiling water. ‘‘ The soup,*’ says a gastronomic writer, might be called the portal of (he edifice of a French dinner, either plain or sumptuous.” It is a sine-qua-non article. Itleads to the several courses con- stituting the essence of the repast, and lays the unso- phisticated foundation upon which the whole is to rest, as upon a solid basis, in the stomach. It is the first stratum deposited to support, with the congenial asso- ciation of natural and gastric acids, the mysterious work of digestion. It is, perhaps, the most wholesome food that can be used; and the gaunt, yet strong frame of the French soldiery has long experienced the benefit of it. They vulgarly say, ‘‘ C’est la soupe qui fait le soldat; ” It is the soup that makes the soldier. Partial to this mess, they have it daily in barracks, on their marches, and in the camp; and they often swalloAV a large bowl of broth with bread in the morning, a few minutes before the trumpet calls them to the field of battle. It seems as if, anciently, leeks (Lat. porrum^ Ft, porreau) were in this country an indispensable22 ingredient in the soup ; since porridge is evidently derived from porrum. It has been asserted, but upon what authority we do not know, that leeks came originally from Arabia. Martial, in his Xenia, Ep. 13, ]9, mentions Xricia^ a town of the Latium, recommended for the excellent qualities of this vegetable, which was cultivated there with great success: Mitlit prcecipuos nemoralis Aricia porros. And Columella, 10, 139 says, mater Aricia porrl— Aricia the mother of leeks. Although a distant or slight flavour of leek may prove agreeable, yet it leaves about the mouth strong miasmata which afiect the breath. We read again in Martial,— PORRI SECTIVI. Fila Tarentini graviler redolentiaporri Edisli guoiies, oscula clausa data. The juice of leeks who fondly sips. To kiss the fair must close his lips. Hence it appears also that Tarentum cultivated the most pungent species of this root; and Nero, on ac- count of his fondness for it, was called in scorn Porrophagus « leek eater.” (Gerard’s Herbal, ad verbum.) The leek is said to be inimical to the wel- fare of the eyes. Rabelais, the humorous vicar of Meudon, distin- guishes, in his jocose way, two sorts of soups. Soupe de Prime, Prime-soup; and soupe de levriers, soup good for hounds j the meaning of which stands23 as follows. The first designates that premature deliba- tion of broth which the young monks in the convent used to steal, when they could, from the kitchen, in their way to the choir at the hour of “ Prime,” a service which was performed at about seven or eight in the morning, when the porridge-pot, with all its in- gredients, had been boiling for the space of one or two hours, (the dinner was served at eleven) and when the broth, full of eyes swimming gently on the golden sur- face, had already obtained an interesting appearance and taste. It was a sort of beef-tea, the lusciousness of which was enhanced by the pleasing idea of its being stolen—nitimur in vetitum semper. On the contrary, Soupe de levriers, greyhound’s soup, means that portion of the porridge which was served to the no- vices after an ample presumption in favour of the Magnates of the monastery. This was good for no- thing, and monks of inferior ranks were ready to throw it to the dogs. The French call rain soupe de chien.” The egg-broth of the miser, who fed his valet with the water in which eggs had been boiled, com’es under the denomination of the said soupe de chien,” or harrier’s broth. V. 7. Primum ut oryzafacit. . The poet mentions only three sorts of soups, among many others. The first is rice soup^ potage au riz.” Here rice is boiled in broth made of the best meat; beef, veal, and chicken. Rice was known to the Romans, if we can take for granted that the Latin oryza means ex- actly this seed. The miser Opimius is advised to take a Ptisane of rice, Herat. Sat. 2, 3, v. 153.24 Sume hoc ptisanarium oryzcc. But the wretch re- fuses to touch it on account of the price, which is supposed to have been about two-pence. “ Eau de riz, ptisane de riz,” are commonly used in France, and for the same purpose as ‘‘ water-gruel ” in Eng- land. When in partnership with ‘‘ Patience ” they do wonders. V. 7. Caulis cum came, broth and cabbage. To the same broth, as a common basis, this porridge unites cabbage, and, with it, onions, celery, lettuce, carrots, and turnips. These ingredients refine, in the chemical process of ebullition, the gross- ness of the carnal juices, and make the pottage both more exhilarating to the palate, and less injurious to the stomach; for strong meat-broth by itself would prove indigestible on account of its heavy and viscous adipousness, were it not neutralized by the addition of vegetable substances. For the same reason vermicelli, bread, and other materials borrowed from the vege- table kingdom, are often mixed with the tasteful broth. Cabbages of all species, playing a principal part in the porridge and other dishes, and holding emi- nent situations among the Dramatis Persotue, from the first act to the catastrophe, in the interesting entertainment of a good dinner, deserve to be par- ticularly mentioned. The Romans are said to have brought into Gal- lia the use of the green and red ones which they had received from Egypt. But, upon looking more intimately into the case, it appears that the white brassica migrated from the northern regions to Italy.25 Indeed the horticular art of obtaining that round and close form, w hich distinguishes some species of this useful plant, does not seem to date farther than the age of Charlemagne. The bigness and rotundity of that head gave origin to the name. Cabus from Caput, and Cabbage evidently from Cabus^ ■with the Italian augmentative, accio or aggio—cabbaggio. Chrysippus, a famous physician of Cnidos, 'wrote upon the multifarious qualities of this Olus, not a single chapter, but a large volume. Galenus and Matthiolus have been very loud in its praise. Pliny, in reckoning the various kinds of cabbage, gives a long account of its virtues, but says little upon its use in cookery, as a noted plant among the esculent ones. Cato is very lavish in his encomiums upon this cruci- ferous vegetable; and, with Pythagoras, holds it as a general remedy for all diseases. The red cabbage stewed in veal broth is accounted, upon the continent, a specific cure against pulmo- nary complaints, and what is called here consump- tion. Pistachios and calf’s lights are added to it. For this purpose red cabbage is especially cultivated in French kitchen-gardens. This reminds us of an anec- dote which passed current at the time we heard itA young clergyman, rector of a country parish, was called upon to preach a sermon upon a grand solem- nity, at which the bishop of the diocese, who was a cardinal, appeared in the Roman purple, surrounded by his clergy in their white surplices. The preacher performed his task to the approbation of every one. After the ceremony, his eminence, meeting him, E26 seemed to wonder at his not having been abashed when in the presence of a cardinal in the full blaze of his red paraphernalia. The simple and honest clergy- man replied: “ Your eminence will cease to wonder, when you know that I'learnt my discourse by heart in my garden, and used to practise declamation before a plot oi white cabbages, in the centre of which stood a red one.”—A preferment was the reward of this answer. Were we to attend scrupulously to the Greek adage often quoted and never rightly understood. Air xpiixQn Soimros, ‘‘ Twice cabbage brings death,” we might be afraid of using it freely in soups and other dishes; but after hunting most strenuously the sense of this saying through the intricate meanders of the Delphini and variorum notes, and other com- mentators, concerning the following line of Juvenal, Sat. vii. 154. Occidit miseros crambe repetita magistros. we must confess that we see no harm in it, and would boldly advise the whole fraternity of snips to go on, undauntedly as they do, in their daily and furious onset upon this, their most favourite, mess. The signification of the adage remains still unenu- cleated. Our opinion is that, in the numerous Greek schools erected at Rome, the first declension of sub- stantives was x^aptS’z;, nr, -p ; crambe, crambes, crambe, as we have here musa, musce, musm, a song, of a song, to a song, as a specimen. The daily repetition of this noun by the hesitating, stammering, simpering27 school-boys, must have been exceedingly tiresome, and enough to kill the disgusted masters—eonperto crede Roberto. Gifford in his translation of Juvenal, eludes, or rather misunderstands the sense; for he says : —Like hash’d cabbage serv’d for each repast. The repetition kills the wretch at last. however, Juvenal, who points at the Greek pro- verb, does not explain it. I cannot help mentioning here a very curious superstition of the ancients concerning this plant. We read in Athenajus that they used to swear by it. Nicander in his Georgies says, “ Our forefathers have named this plant /xavrtv xpa/xfnv,” the prophetic cabbage. Wherefore? is a question perfectly unanswer- able in our days. The Abbe de Marolles most inno- cently translates: prophete entre les choux. La Brassique a son air qui montre qu’il est doux. Obscurum per obscurius. Hipponax calls it a holy, a sacred plant; and adds: But when the dawn Aurora’s pearly doors Unbars, the sev’n-leav’d Brassic he adores. And culls it for Apollo’s feasts. The Abbe says here literally, La Brassique il adore, De sept feuilles orn^e, au lever de I’aurore, Pour la sacrifier aux ffites d’Apollon.28 Eupolis, quoted by Athenaeus, goes farther: he introduces this formula of friendly compellation— By the sacred cabbage, I doloveyou;” andsuspects this oath to have been peculiar to Ionia. In the ab- sence of substantial and credible authorities to quote, it is not very easy to guess how and why superstition should have been attached to one of the most vulgar plants in the kitchen-garden : for what has the mon- strous head of a cabbage to do with the Godhead ? Yet if we consider the inside of this curious globe, the enwrappings and close foldings of the leaves, centri- cally bent over and nursing the germen, the seed, the hope of never-ceasing propagation, breathed into that spherical canopy by the Creator himself j—we can hardly wonder at the folly of men, who, unenlightened by divine revelation, knelt, like the Egyptians, before the produce of their gardens. Juvenal exclaims, Sat. XV. 10. O sacras genles quihus hcec nascuntur in horlis Numina !— O pious nations, whose most pow’rful gods In gardens grow, and swell the rattling pods. V. 8. Olus exceptd came. The third pottage or soup, mentioned in the poem, is that which, admit- ting of no broth from any sort of meat, obtains its flavour and taste from a mixture of vegetables with butter, eggs, and milk. The necessity of recurring to dishes made up without the help of animal sub- stance, has from time to time roused the ingenuity of cooks in Roman Catholic families, in order to invent29 adequate substitutes for those In which tlie carnal sub- sidy is generally used. All sorts of pulse, carrots and their kin, turnips and parsnips reduced to a sort ofor pudding, are great performers in the opus magnum of the meagre soup. Leeks, onions, and celery, vary the taste; and sorrel adds to it a most wholesome acidity, when properly subdued by the neutralizing mildness of milk and eggs. The French have besides : Potage a la reine, a I’Ecossaie, a la Xavier, au blond deveau, ^la Faubonne, ^la Brunoy, a la proven9ale, a la jardiniere, au hameau, a la Conde, a la crossy, a la Necker, ^ la julienne, a la chifonade, a I’ceil de perdrix, au coulis d’ecrevisses, au lait d’amandes, &c. &c. &c. all of which may be exceed- ingly palatable and wholesome, but their names are most obstinately untranslateable into any other lan- guage. V. 9. Testudo^ Turtle. This splendid and deli- cate gift, sent from the transatlantic Nereids to the Gastronomers of the old world, could not be known to the ancients ; and we regret that the pens of Mar- tial, Juvenal, and Horace, had not to describe the three-fold quality found in the flesh of this enormous reptile, and amphibious animal. How harmoniously caUipash and callipce^ tasting accidently so much of Grecian origin, might have begun Hexameter, or ended lambic verses! For instance: Callipash hinc guslum languentem provocal •, {tide Novum minislral appetilum Callipee. and it seems a great pity that the Tortoise, the30 shell of which was adapted to the lyre by Aler- cury, had not the gratification to accompany the dithyrambic odes composed, as they would have been, in enthusiastic praise of her testaceous sister, the Turtle. Some travellers mention the turtle as an inhabitant of the East Indian seas; but the nau- tical knowledge of the Greeks and Romans was so very confined, that, were this assertion positively true, they could not have obtained a sufficient ac- quaintance with this excellent food. However, it never appeared upon their tables. V. 12. Mendax vitulina. Mock-turtlesoup. Many gourmets, or gastrologers, have preferred the copy to the original. De gustibusnon est disputandum ; and we confess that, when done as it ought to be, the mock- turtle is exceedingly interesting. A calf’s head is the principal ground of this metamorphosis, and the Pen- tameter, in the poem, alludes to the mystery, which books upon cookery will fully explain. French Gas- tronomers agree in avowing that turtle-soup, mock- turtle, and all messes thereunto belonging, originate with the English. . V. 13 & 14. Bubula, sine condimento—Bubula con- dita—Boiled beef, with or without sauce. The prin- cipal basis of all pottages, excepting the meagre ones, being the juice extracted from beef, the next, dish on the removal of the soup ought to be the boiled beef, or Bouilli.” It appears generally strewed with small sprigs of parsley, or surrounded by an elegant wreath of those vegetables, which have undergone the operation of boiling in the same vessel with the meat.31 However, a little of the broth with pepper and salt, and other exhilarating and palatable ingredients assists sometimes the too justly reprobated dryness of the dish, which then assumes the higher appellation of “ bouilli a la sauce”—beef with gravy. La piece de boeuf,” says a French Gastrographer, the Bouilli,” or boiled beef, is the constant and indis- pensable centre of all dinners in this sublunary world, “dans ce bas monde,” and perhaps one of the most difficult dishes to carve properly and ele- gantly. The region of the thigh, the great muscle from the rump to the leg, which the French call “ Cimier,” the buttock of beef, is invariably reckoned the fittest and best part of the animal to yield a strong and luscious broth. It is reported that Prometheus was the first who killed a bullock, Ceres a pig, and Bacchus a goat, for the use of the table. It is obvious that pigs by turn- ing up the new-sown fields for the sake of the grain 5 and goats browzing the tender sprouts of the vine- tree, were respectively inimical to Ceres and Bac- chus. — As for the killing of the first bullock by Prometheus, we leave to other commentators to ex- plain. V. 16. Verubus. Spits were used very anci- ently in all parts of the world, and perhaps before the plain practice of hanging the meat to a string before the fire. Ere the iron-age had taught men the use of metals, these roasting instruments were made of woodj and, as we find it in Virgil, the32 slender blanches of the hazel-tree were particularly chosen. Geo. ii. 396. Sfalil sacer liircus ad aram Pinguiague in vcruhus torrebimus exta colurnis. The altar let the guilty goat approach. And roast his fat limbs on the hazel broach. hy the hazel twig should have been preferred to others for making roasting broaches or spits, is not ea- sily accounted for. There is, however, an old custom on the continent which, though rather superstitious, seems to have originated in the circumstance of using hazel sticks for the same purpose. On the eve of Epiphany, called here Twelfth-Night, a few larks are spitted upon a fresh-cut twig of hazel, and placed before a good fire ; after a few minutes expectation, the whole begins to turn without help, and as if by a spontaneous motion. The staring company, in amaze- ment and rapture, cry miracle ! and remain per- ' suaded that this cannot be done but by supernatural agency or magic. The fact is, that the sap contained in the veins of the twig (which are probably set in a spiral line roimd the centre) being successively at- tracted by the fire, causes a sort of rotation.—Will any other wood do the same ? This is a question which we cannot take upon ourselves to answer. The superstitious notion consists in supposing that this event will not happen but on a certain festival-day, and to that notion we are far from yielding any sort of belief. Tergova obesa bovis. Filet de bocuf,” sirloin.3a This was not ‘eTcry day on the “ carte,” or bill of fare, in London, being one of those dishes which the French emigrants did not particularly relish; and indeed in hotels and public eating-houses, “ tables d’hote,” &c. unless it proves of a tender quality and well roasted, it hardly can remind the Gallic palate of the ‘‘ aloyau,” or “ filet de bceuf ” This last is often steeped in vinegar (marine), and is brought on the table with strong gravy, larded and strewed with pickled cucumbers—a refinement which English cook- ery and taste have entirely laid aside, or never tried. The word Sirloin, which is supposed to have ori- ginated in the frolic of one of our kings, who, in a fit of overflowing good-humour, knighted a loin of beef, only means sur-loin—the part above (sur) the loins. We are happy to find that it was not on account of the solidity, wholesomeness, delicacy, and other excellent qualities of his flesh, that the ox was wor- shipped on the banks of the Nile and in the gorgeous temples of Memphis; for, although professedly friends to Gastronomy, moderated by a decided aversion to any thing like sensuality, we are of opinion that man is less fit to feed upon carnal, than vegetable, sub- stances. The noble horse, fierce and unsubdued, was still roaming, with all the roughness and intractability of original freedom, in his native groves, when al- ready domesticated, the honest steer had willingly lent the strength of his powerful shoulders to the laborious strife of the plough. This had not only raised altars to him under the name of Apis, but F34 evea placed him among the first constellations of the Zodiac, above the watchful eyes of the Chal- deans. In the reign of Erichtonius, fourth king of Athens, Diomus was offering to Jupiter the first fruits of the earth. Whilst the priests were busied apart in preparing some accessaries to the solemnity, an ox, passing by, browsed off all that had been gathered on the altar for the sacrifice. Diomus, in his disappointment and passion, slew him on the spot. The gods, instead of countenancing his religious zeal, sent forth immediately all the hor- rors of a pestilence upon the Athenians, which did not cease until they had instituted a festival called Bon(povi* “ the Death of the Ox.” (Nonius de re cibaria.) Porphyrius traces the custom of eating meat to the age of Pygmalion, king of Tyre in Phoe- nicia. Had not the companions of Ulysses killed the beeves consecrated to Apollo (Odyss. B. 1.) the toils of the king of Ithaca would not have taken place, and Homer could not have written the Odyssey. Although the Jews were allowed to eat the flesh of the immolated beasts, (Deut. 12, 26, Exod. 18.) what has been mentioned above tends to prove that man, in the Golden Age, had not yet found courage and appetite enough to eat the flesh of an innocent animal. Cut soon after, this cruelty extended to nearly all quadrupeds, except those who were car- nivorous ; and Maecenas himself, the elegant, the refined patron of Horace and prime minister of Au- gustus, used, says Galen us, to have young asses served upon his table when he treated his friends. Dogs even35 clid not escape, and according to Pliny, Book 29, ch. 4, on the consecration of their pontiffs, the Romans de- lighted In the flavour of young and well-fattened pup- pies. This strange practice suhsists still in China and among the Esquimaux. Plump and well-roasted bats, laid upon a bed of olives, are eaten in the Levant as a dainty; and Scaliger asserts that their flesh is sweeter and more delicate than the breast of a chicken. Frenchmen say the same of frogs. Hedgehogs were fricasseed in Greece as Avell as HumsteT rats in Bran- denbourg ; and the Laplanders feed on rein-deer and squirrels. Chacu?i a son gout.” But to return : we are told that modern Greeks, in the island of Cyprus, still abstain from eating beef out of respect for the agri- cultural usefulness of the ox. Pliny speaks of a citizen banished by the people for having killed an ox in order to feed on his flesh. Aristotle and Pliny relate that Pyrrhus had considerably improved the bovine race, by several edicts he had issued for that purpose ; and particularly by forbidding that cows should breed under four years of age. The reader will forgive these particulars on account of the great assistance which the ox and his family afford to Gastronomical enjoyments. V. 17. Gallinam fulcit oryza. “ Poularde au riz.” Pullet and rice. It frequently happens that what is brought on the table at public places, for a delicate and well-fattened pullet, turns out to be some adult prince of the dunghill, who by the magic wand of the cook, becomes in appearance what the Bill of Fare had fictitiously described. But the gourmet’s36 tooth soon detects the fraud, and his palate grieves at the disappointment. This dish, with the exception of the garum, (Pliny, 31,8.) is not unlike the Turkish pilau, and when genuine in all its parts, generally proves tasteful and wholesome; so much so, that physicians allow it to their patients in the primo limine of con- valescence, and accoucheurs to the ladies in the straw, when they fancy an appetite. The Romans were so desperately fond of fattened hens, (Poulardes, Fr.) that the good consul Caius Fannius, fearful lest the breed should materially suffer from this voracious practice, caused a law to pass the Senate in order to prevent any fatal consequence. Gastronomy frowned at the Senatus-consultum; but capons, properly edu- cated, being substituted in the coop for their emanci- pated sisters, hunger smiled, anger subsided, and all was right again. The Syrians of old used to worship hens on account of their fecundity, and the exquisite taste of their eggs, which, at Athens and Rome were carried, with pompous show, in the great festivals of Ceres. (Livy.) It has been remarked with a sort of superstitious wonder, that some hens have received from nature the masculine talent of crowing ; and, in general, such an anomaly is punished with death in the farm- house or cottage where this preposterous uttering is heard. And indeed there is a French proverb which says: Poule qui chante, pr^tre qui danse. Femme qui parle latin, N’arrivent jamais a belle fin.37 A crowing hen, a dancing priest, a woman who speaks Latin, never come to a good end. The abstinence practised by the hen during incu- bation, is much above what Christians and Mahometans can boast concerning their Lent and Ramadan ; and Mendoza pretends to have seen a hen, who, for ninety days, never opened her beak to take food. The digestive powers of the hen have been most horridly tried by Spallanzani, who ought to have been put under the lex talionis. He ascertained that this poor creature could not indeed digest a musket-ball, larded all round with needles and lancets, but had strength enough to blunt the edges of these destructive instruments. This leaves far behind all that has been said of the ostrich ; but have we not heard lately of several clasp-knives found in a fair way of digestion in the stomach of a madman ? V. 18. Vir mulierque fuit. The culinary trans- formation of a cock info a pullet, brings naturally enough to the mind the unexplainable story of Ti- resias, who having passed from the one sex to the other, was on that account called upon to settle a ridi- culous dispute between two of the still more ridiculous deities of the heathens. (Ovid, Met. 3, Fab. 4.) Having struck two entwined serpents with his stick, he becomes a woman. Seven years after, he meets the same loving couple, strikes them again, and jumps back into his former sex. Commentators on the rack have confessed that they could not see any religious, moral, or physical meaning in the fable Alchymists, dreaming of the wonder-working stona38 found silver transformed into gold, concealed behind the veil of this curious allegory; but they found also that the soothsayer was struck s/one-blind as a reward for his trouble in meddling between married folks— and that would not do. We have treasured up some very deep researches upon the matter, but dare not indulge too freely and publicly in them, lest we should appear nonsensical a few years before the allotted time, and spontaneously anticipate the unavoidable period of downright dotage and complete doodledom. V. 19. Tarpeius ales. Oie rotie.” Roast goose. The famous guardians of the Capitol, who gave the alarm from the Tarpeian rock to the sleeping Ro- man centinels, when the Gauls were on the point of scaling the walls of the city, have been ‘‘ honour- ably mentioned,” by ancient writers; and Virgil, with his usual elegance, places one of them on the shield of his hero. ^En. viil. Auratis volitans argenteus anser, Poriicibus, Gallos in limine adesse canebat. The silver goose, before the shining gate There flew, and by her cackle sav’d the state. Dryden left out the beautiful opposition between auratis and argenteus, by which the Latin poet intended to shew that the artist had chased the bird in silver upon a gold ground representing the Ca- pitol. Geese are not in general of such famous repute in France as they are here, and seldom make their ap- pearance upon the tables of the Parisian epicures.39 The flesh, they condemn as coarse and unwholesome ; and the apple-sauce, when mentioned, never fails to elicit flashes of astonishment subsiding into peals of laughter. But the liver and thighs of geese, learnedly made into pies, and properly truffled, “ pates de foies gras,” are reckoned a most delicate article; yet they have killed nearly as many Gastronomers as the small-pox and scarlet fever have destroyed children. The department of Perigord, with Toulouse and Bai- onne, used, notwithstanding, to cook annually for the rest of the world about 120,000 of these lethiferous pies. Were we to believe what is reported of the manner of fattening this devoted bird, the heart would feel a pain, which communicated to its neighbour the sto- mach, would certainly damp its courage. Large droves of geese were anciently led from Picardy to Italy, waddling over the Alps, and constantly stooping, ac- cording to their prudent custom, under the lofty tri- umphal arches under which they happen to pass in their way. Yet geese are not so stupid as they are ge- nerally supposed to be. The famous chymist, Lemery, saw a goose turning the spit on which a turkey was roasting; unconscious, we hope, that some friend would soon accept the office for her. “ Alas! we are all turnspits in this world; ” adds the Gastrographer who relates the fact, “ and, when we roast a friend, let us be aware that many stand ready to return the compliment.” The name of this bird in Greek is pronounced cane, from which, by a misapplication, the mallard and duck are called canard, and cane in French.40 Were they the originals, and the goose but a magnified copy ? The punstical alliteration of impavidos and avidos Gallos is recommended to the indulgence of the reader, %yho must not forget that this short Latin poem is far from being serious, or made of serious elements. V. 21. Napis circumsepius anas. ‘‘ Canard aux navets.” Duck with turnips. The word turnip or tumep evidently comes from tornatus napus, and seems to identify the globular shape of that well-known root. Turnips in France and other countries have the spindle form of the parsnip, pastinaca napus, Napus alias Rapus is translated, in old English, na- vew, navow, (Fr. navet. provincially navot) as if from naphus. The numerous branches of the napi, naphi, rapi, and raphani family are so interwoven in horticultural pedigrees, that Pliny seriously asserts, that they change often from one to another—utriusque semen in alterum mutatur. This dish is excellent when well prepared. The duck is, at first, scorched in hot melted butter, as well as the turnips. These being laid aside for the space of about half an hour, the duck is allowed to stew gently, in solitary plight, till being sufficiently concocted, he admits again the waiting vegetables into his company. A few cubic bits of bacon, a sprig of thyme, a leaf of laurel (Daphne), will enhance considerably the flavour of the dish. The duck was known to the ancients under the names of N»kt(T«, Gr. Anas, Lat. but does not seem to have been much noticed. However duck’s eggs41 were and are still, reckoned more delicate, and when used in pastry, lighter than any other eggs. V. 22. Cepiila quam sepU. The alliteration in the pen- tameter of this distich was purposely affected, it seems, by the author, from a recollection of, or in allusion to, a sort of riddle well known among the Latinists : Vidi sofpe sepem edentem in sepe cepam ; “ I have often seen a snake eating an onion in a hedge.” “ Canard aux ognons; ” a duck is dressed with onions in the same manner as with turnips. Onions are supposed to have been originally brought from Egypt, where they must have possessed a most bewitching taste since the Israelites would fain have returned to bondage for the sake of enjoying them again. Alexander the Great sent them to Greece, and from thence they became common on the whole continent. It is remarkable that the particles emana- ting from this bulbous root are so volatile and so keen, that they instantly corrode the external surface of the eyes, and draw tears and it is more curious still, that if, when peeling an onion, the cook wishes to be spared this lachrymatory affection, a small piece of bread placed at the end of the operating knife, will absorb the effluvia and prevent the dis- agreeable effect. V. 23. Vitulina cum rumice, Fricandeau a I’ozeille.” Stewed veal and sorrel. This is one of the best among the “ entrees,” or substantial ele- ments of the first course of a dinner. A well-chosen piece of veal, weighing under three pounds and with- out bones, is stewed gently on an even fire for several G42 hours, in the native strength of its own juice and gravy. The learnedly directed needle had been busily employed to lard the subject before it was confined; and when properly done, the meat is placed upon a bed of sorrel, subdued by gentle boiling in water, and then blended with the gravy and juice of the veal. Sorrel is a species of the lapathum, or dock; and, possessing naturally strong acids in the composition of its leaves and stalks, cleans the teeth by friction. The word fricando, gerund of fricare, to rub, is not adduced here as the origin of, but as a jocose allusion to, the name of this pleasing dish. There exists no mediocrity in africandeau; it must be either very good or very bad—corruptio optimipessima. V. 25. Confrixus Gallus. “ Fricassee de poulet.” Fricasseed chicken. A tender fowl cut in pieces and boiled with a little fresh butter, and enough of water to cover it in the “ casserole,” on a gentle furnace, requires the help of a few onions, a nosegay of parsley, bottoms of artichokes, and other accom- paniments. When done, the yolks of a couple of eggs well diluted in some of the liquid from the stew- pan, are mixed with it. This is one of the most inte- resting dishes which the French cuisine bourgeoise ” can boast. Gallus Jit pullus in olid. We have seen above the transformation of a cock into a pullet; here the au- thor alludes to the equally curious metamorphosis of old chanticleer served up under the title of a tender and young fowl. Such wonders the cauldrons and spells of clever cooks can achieve in the regions below !lu the description of a dinner, Sat. Ill, Boileau, speaking of the same substitution, says : Tin coq y paroissoit en pompeux equipage, Qui, changeant sur ce plat el d'etat et de nom. Par tous les convUs s’est appelU chapon. There an old cock most pompously prepared. By all the guests a capon was declared. V. 26. Medceam ^sonem sic renovasse ferunt. Mythology asserts that thus, and exactly by the same process, Medea, who was a sworn or licensed witch in her time, restored to youth .®son, the decrepit father of Jason, her paramour; and that, being en- treated by the daughters of Pelias, iEson’s brother, to perform the same reviving ceremony upon him, she advised these simpletons to scotch their dear parent into cutlets and chops, and to make a comfortable stew. But the charm did not work, and by this con- sobrinal trick the princess of Colchos got rid of Ja- son’s uncle, and of all the rest of the collateral branch of the family. Plautus does not appear to have held as a received opinion that poor Pelias was boiled to mummy, but only simmered to youthful vigour, like old fowls in the “ casserole,” since he says, through the interlocution of the same cook, loc. cit. Sorhitione faciam te hodih me&. Item ut Mediva Peliam concoxil senem, Quern medicamenlo et suis venenis dicilur Fecisie rurshs ex sene adolescenluhim. In vcnom-juices, and with noxious weed. Old Pelias, by Medea fricasseed. To youthful vigour sprung;44 Thus, from an old and ugly wicked wight. This day, ray skill in cook’ry always right. Again will make thee young. Our opinion is that the comic writer introduced the mistake for the very purpose of showing the igno- rance of the would-be-learned cook. V. 27. Cincinno similis costula. “ Cotelettes de veau en papillotes.” Veal cutlets done in paper. This delicate part of the animal, lightly sprinkled with crumbs or raspings of bread, minced parsley, pepper and salt, is wrapped in buttered paper pre- vious to its being devoted to the ordeal of the gridiron on a good and clear fire. Pane, apio, charta, amkta. Pants. “ Pain.” Bread is of a very ancient origin; the Hebrew called it lehem, the Greek aqros i and it appears that the Gauls and Celts gave it the name of bar. The Greeks, having been taught the art of cultivating wheat and of making bread, were generally as- sailed on the confines of their dominions by those people, who used to call bar, bar—bread, bread; hence the Greek barbaros, BccpSapos. The word barley attaches itself to this hypothesis, since harley- bread was known at the same time with or even before wheaten bread. Some authors of respectability pre- tend that wheat originated in Egypt, and that the Phocean colony brought it to Marseilles. The Sa- racens used it before the crusades, but it was that in- ferior species named buckwheat, which is still called in French, sarrasin. There was a particular sort of bread made to be eaten with oysters j and45 such rolls as we butter for breakfast were iuvented by the Parthians, and called consequently panis Par- thicus. (Pliny.) Apium. Parsley. “ Persil/’ from petroselinum. Phis plant, Gr. uekivov, was known and in great repute in the time of Homer, since he adorns with it and the violet the precincts of Calypso’s ar- bour in his beautiful description, Odyss. Book V. ,T. 73. —iov asXjvOu SviXeov. In verdant meads, and thriving all around, Sweet violets and parsley deck the ground. The elegantly indented leaves of this vegetable adorned, in ancient architecture, the Corinthian ca- pital as well as those of the Acanthus ; and we are told that the Carthaginians, having found it in the delightful vales of Sardinia, brought it to the Phocean gardens of the Marseillese. If after having bruised some sprigs of parsley in your hands, you attempt to rinse your glasses, they will generally snap and suddenly break. Charta. “ Papier.” Paper. Hence “ papillotte,” which generally applies to the small paper in which the hair is confined to make it curl. And indeed these cutlets, (from to cut in English, and from c6telette, a small rib, in French) when brought on the table with their scorched wrappers, bear a very strong resemblance to the papUtoles, which have of late resumed their station on the forehead, and remind us of one of the scenes in the “ Marriage a la mode,” by the immortal Hogarth.46 V. 29 and 30. Vento levior similisque volanti Ar- tocrea. ‘‘ Vole au vent.” A raised pye, with a fo- liated and light crust, containing chicken fricasseed, veal, sweetbread, or any other delicate meat, ge- nerally accompanied by bottoms of artichokes, mush- rooms, maroons, &c. On meagre days, roes of carp, crawfishes, or eels, are subsituted for meat. V. 31. Vituli jecur. “ Foie de veau.” Calf’s liver. When this article, properly larded, has been allowed to stew gently in its own juice, with some necessary ingredients, as salt, pepper, cloves, and a suflScient supply of fresh butter, which ought to have been previously burnt in the pan with flour, this dish is far from being despicable, though hardly known in the “ cuisine Anglaise.” The allusion in the poem relates to Prometheus, whose ever-renascent liver was the prey of vultures, the executioners of divine ven- geance upon this intrepid mortal, who had stolen from heaven a spark of the elemental fire. Hor. B. 1. Od. 3. V. 34. Ad solitum coda bovilla modum. “ Boeuf a la mode.” A-la-mode beef. It would be very er- roneous to suppose that this bears any resemblance to what some people find in the neighbourhood of the London theatres. Stringy muscles of legs of beef, the offals of the shambles, stewed down to hempy pap, with allspice, whole pepper, and other high sea- soning stuff, constitute v\ hat the hungry haunters of the pit, and more hungry tenants of the galleries, swallow without mastication, at those shops anciently called the ‘‘ Thirteen Cantons,” in remembrance of the ori-47 ginal iaventors of the dainty, who undoubtedly were indigenous cooks from Switzerland. The real “ boeuf k la mode’’ consists of a selected part of a particular muscle (the buttock, we should suppose) larded throughout with fresh and well-flavoured bacon. It is allowed to muse gently for several hours, inaccessible to the ambient air, and on the even and persevering heat of charcoal in the furnace or stove. After having lulled itself in its own exudations and the dissolution of its auxiliaries, it appears on the table with a pow- erful claim to the approbation of the Amphitryon and his guests. It is next to the Italian “ stuffato,” and nearly synonymous with beef properly stewed. V. 35. Juvencorum palatos. “ Palais de bceuf.” Ox palate. According to the opinion of Gastrologers, nothing more delicate, softer, and better flavoured than this dish, can ever leap over the threshold of our masticating organs. V. 36. Colchica Jlamma. Allusion to Medea, the above mentioned high-bred sorceress of Colchos, who taught her lover Jason, captain of the ship Argo, to conquer the spit-fire bulls to whom the custody of the golden fleece was entrusted. (Seneca’s tragedy. Ovid Met. B. vli. and Cicero, N. D.) Our in- nocent oxen are not armed, says the author, with dreadful emanations of flames ; they feed peacefully on the margin of our streams, and are perfectly free from the magic tricks of the witch of Thessaly. V. 40. Pancreas. “ Ris de veau ” Sweetbread. Pancreas means “ all-flesh.” Indeed there is no bone in sweetbreads, but when they are not well-48 chosen, parts of the vena porta, and tough teguments of arteries, make the teeth of the Gastronomer recoil in an awkward attitude. Nothing, says the poet, is sweeter and more agreeable to the palate than this glandulous substance ; and the cook, when he knows how to avail himself of its qualities, will introduce it with success in many learned dishes, “ mets sa- vants.” We speak of the calf’s sweet bread; the ancients do not mention it as a food of any repute on their tables. That of a hog is called in Latin animellae ; aind, chopped with beaten eggs, was one of the compo- nent parts of an omelette, to which it gave a name. V. 41. Vervecis costula. " Cotelettes de mouton.” Mutton chops. It is rather surprising that the word cutlet should have been omitted by Johnson in his dictionary. The real mutton cotelettes,” cutlets, or chops, are, or ought to be, small ribs with part of the flesh adhering to them, as they run down from the neck to the hind part of the animal; but by ex- tension of sense, or license of expression, the word applies indiscriminately to any small parts cut olf where the bone and meat are closely united. They are here plainly broiled, toasted, or fried like veal; but treated with much more ceremony in France. Steeped in sweet oil, powdered with pepper and salt, crumbs or raspings of bread, and minced parsley, they pre- sent themselves to the Gastronomer’s palate with a more enticing taste than they naturally possess. Dressing, which goes so far at the toilette, is of no less importance in the subterraneous mysteries of the kitchen.49 The price mentioned, uno triente^ a groat, for a plain mutton chop, may not be now the same as when the poem was originally composed. Triens stands for the third part of the Roman As. Juvenal Sat. iii, 267. gives us to understand that the coin so called in his time was of little value, just the fare of the ferryman Charon to convey a soul across the Styx; and that it was put in the mouth of the dead. Itjfelix nec habet quern porrigat ore trientem. He has not, poor devil, a farthing to give him. The consumption of sheep and lambs in England is astonishing. In London only, it amounts, upon an average, to the number of about twelve hundred thousand heads per annum. V. 43. Si cerebrum capias. “ Cervelles.” Brains. It is hardly possible to guess how the culinary art could treat matters so well as to make this soft pappy substance in any sort of way palatable. True, and practicably true it is, however, that many customers used to call for, and were mightily pleased with, this dish. It was sometimes stewed with fine herbs; some- times dipt in batter and fried, then served up upon a full stratum of crisply fried parsley. Of all brains, that of a young rabbit is declared the most delicate. Minutal ovince carnis. “ Hachis de Mouton.” Minced Mutton. This dish was known to the Ro- mans. Juvenal, Sat. 14—127. The best part of the animal to be minced is the leg, the day after it has been roasted; a common practice in private French houses, where they do not hash mutton ubut veal; and do not mince veal but mutton; yet they call minced meat ‘‘ Hachis.” V. 45. Ovis lingua. “Langues deMouton.” Sheep’s tongues. They are generally accompanied with stewed sorrel, or carrots. The Latin name of the last, Pastinaca, being on account of its quantity re- fused admission into the Hexameter or Pentameter line, is alluded to in the enigmatical turn of the se- cond part of the distich. V. 47. Vitalina subalbicat, “ Blanquette de veau.” Hashed veal. The French word “ blanquette" originates in the pleasingly white (blanc) appear- ance of this mess. The meat ought to have been roasted first; then it is consigned to the pan with a small quantity of fresh butter, then water, then cream or milk, then chopped parsley strewed over the whole. Onions are admitted, and sweet-breads mostly welcome. V. 49, 50. Cervix Meleagrcei apri. Hure de sanglier.” Wild boar’s head. This famous and savoury specimen of the art of cookery, is here negatively mentioned. But, instead of it, we may have that of a home-bred hog, from Hampshire, and particularly from the part of that county called the New Forest. Juvenal in his description of a feast. Sat. V. has the following lines : Anseris ante ipsum magnijecur, anseribus par Allilis, et Jlavi dignui Jerro Meleagri Fumal aper. The liver of a large goose, a capon equally as big, and a wild boar worthy of having been slain by the sword of Meleager, smoked before the master of the entertainment.51 Commentators are of opinion that this animal was roasted barbecue, “ de la barbe a, la queue,” from beard to tail, as we etymologize it, consequently entire. It must be observed that we find also in this passage that the liver of a fat goose was already es- teemed a great dainty at Rome. V. 51. Nunquid amas sapidam pernam. Jam- bon.” Ham. The custom of fumigating hams is of a very ancient date, and was well known to the Romans. Horace mentions it. Sat. ii. 2.—117. — Fumoscc cum pede pernm. Several places on the continent are famous for the delicacy and flavour of their hams ; Westpha- lia, however, is at the head of the list. The cooking of a ham requires all the science and care of the cook. Tasteful vegetables, sweetly perfumed herbs, spice and wine, are then in constant requisition ; but the purpura, the red tint, is produced by the mixed operation of nitre and salt. V. 33, 54. Condita sale, et sine sale sus. Petit sale,” and Pore frais.” Pickled pork, and roast pork. Pickled pork here bears very little resemblance to what is called “ Petit sale” in France, where porkmen ge- nerally cook it in their own houses. From this circum- stance, viz. that of selling ready cooked meat, they are called “ chaircuiliers.” Cabbage is, by its mildness, a neutralizing accompaniment to pickled porkj but sweet sauce with roast pork appears to have been re- tained since the residence of the Romans in this Is- land. The Gauls substituted sharp seasonings, as garlic.o2 sJialots, 8cc. and it is a true observation that, among the innumerable quantity of meat-dishes, which a French cook can dress and serve up, not a drachm of sugar enters in any one of them. V. 56. Brassica tucetis comes. Hoche-pot au sau- cissons.” Sausages and cabbage. The compound word “ hoche-pot” originates in the reiterated shaking of the pan by the cook’s hand, lest the con- tents should stick or catch by the too great heat of the stove. Persius Sat. 2—43, seems to be of opinion that sausages, tuceta^ are not a wholesome food; for he says : Poscis opemnervis, corpusque Jidele senectw ; Eslo, age, sed grandes palinw, tucetaque crassa Annuere his superos vetuire, Jovcmquc mo’anlur. You pray for strength of nerves, and body fit Boldly to meet the mis’ries of old age; ’Tis well, pray on : but mind, your cursed rage For great high-season’d cates may still defeat The yielding kindness of the powers above. And chains of sausage bind the bounteous hand of Jove. V. 57. Assaturne caro vUulitia. ‘‘ Longe de veau.” Loin of veal. This part is generally se- lected for roasting. Bnt it is not often found at common eating-houses either here or at Paris, as it is hinted by the answer of the waiter in the poem, who proposes roast mutton instead of it. V. 58. Tergits et armxis ovis. Mouton roti.” Roast mutton. The shoulder is often laid upon a bed of French beans, (haricots blancs) or of endive. These vegetables are first boiled, and then placed in53 the dripping pan under the meat, about a quarter of an hour before it is thoroughly done, in order to receive the gravy distilling from it. V. 60. Cichorea, “ chicoree,” succory.’—Lat. tn- tybus erraticus. Endive. Horace says : me pascunl olivce. Me cichorea, levesque malvce. ‘‘ Sweet olives, endive, and mallows,” do not seem well calculated to inspire the muse ; and surely generous wine must have animated a repast composed of mere garden-stuff. Boileau was of that opinion, for he said: “ Horace a bA son soul quand il voit les Menades." Horace has drunk his fill when he sees the Msnades. A mild bitterness, natural to this plant (Jmaris in- tyba Jibris. Virg. Geo. 1.—120.) acts as a detersive in the stomach and bowels. The light and soft mal- lows have long deserted the kitchen. V. 61. Unguibuspedibusque suis Sus. “ Pieds de cochon.” Pettitoes. The punstical association of sus and suis, alludes also to a sort of Latin enigma known at school, Vidi murem currentem non pedibus suis. “ I saw a rat running not upon his own feet.” ButjMW being taken as the genitive of sus, a pig; the sense is, “ running not with pig’s feet.” V. 62. Botellus adest. “ Boudin noir.” Black pudding. This sort of pudding, made with pig’s blood, onions, grit, herbs, &c. is mentioned in Apicius 2, 5. and by Seneca—Yp. 6. Some un- daunted knights of the etymological order, have long54 fought to prove that the French boudin” and the English “ pudding,” descended from Botulus; but few have followed their banners, although the Botulists were not deficient in skill to establish their thesis. They were tight warriors and could show blood enough ] but it turned out to be a drawn battle, et adhuc sub judice Us est. V. 63. Tostos renes, caudasque bidentum, Rog- nons et queues de mouton.” Kidneys and sheep’s tails. Broiled with proper seasoning, or tossed up in the frying pan with butter and onions, kidneys become palatable. As for sheep’s tails, they ought to be dressed with a great deal of care, in order to prevent the fat, with which they are generally loaded, proving noxious to the stomach; they are generally accom- panied with pease pudding, or with puree de len- tilles,” in French cookery. V. 64. Furta bovina. Queues de bceufs.” Bullocks tails. Although the great quantity of bones which these contain, renders the eating rather tedious, yet the meat lodged in the apophyses and cavities of the caudal vertebrce, is extremely sweet and nourishing. Stewed with onions, carrots, turnips, &c. and small cuts of bacon, they become interesting. The allusion to the history of Cacus is obvious— This noted thief, son of Vulcan, had taken his abode on Mount Aventine. Hercules returning from Spain, had rested himself in the vale at the foot of the hill, with a drove of cattle he had led from thence. Cacus, to defeat the search of the owner, drew several of them backwards by the tail into his cavern; but at thelowing of one of those he had drawn to his den, the remaining beasts began to answer; the wily scheme was discovered, and Hercules, having dragged this monster out of his hold by the feet, killed him with his club.—Livy 1. 7.—Virg. jEn. 8. 200. V. 68. Bubula hesterna. “ Bouilli froid.” Cold boiled beef, with oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, parsley and mustard, is not to be despised, and proves a substantial luncheon. V. 69. Phasiano de jiumine avis. ‘‘ Faisan.” Pheasant. (This and the following articles down to the fishes, being seldom upon the Bill of Fare, are introduced negatively and by mere opposi- tion.) The beauty of this bird when alive, the fla- vour and quality of his flesh when properly dressed, are too well known to claim a long description in this note. Gastronomers who have any sort of aversion to a peculiar taste in game properly kept, had better abstain from this bird — since it is worse than a common fowl, if not waited for till it acquires the “ fumet” it ought to have. Whole republics of mag- gots have often been found rioting under the wings of pheasants ; but being radically dispersed, and the birds properly washed with vinegar, every thing went right, and every guest, unconscious of the culinary ablutions, enjoyed the excellent flavour of the Phasian birds. V. 72. Telrax or Tetras. Cocq de bruyere.” Heath-cock, is the real name of the moor-cock and the rest of the black game so well known in the hy- perborean parts of Great Britain. Several naturalists of easy credulity have believed and propagated as56 probable, if not indisputable, that the great Tetrao, or Tetras, the monarch of the wood, perched on the branch of a tree, calls to him his wandering hens; and that, after having dropped some mysterious liquid from his beak, he sends them away, properly fit to propagate his royal breed. This bird is also called Gor-cock, red or black game. The following lines allude to the fable hinted in the poem : Where smooth, unruffled by the northern blast. The crystal lakes, in Alpine rocks enshrin’d. Reflect the verdant scene, and gently bathe With silver waves around, the grass-grown feet Of woody hills ; there to his cackling dames. On blooming heaths and secret lawns dispers’d. The Gor-cock calls,the sultan of the grove— On eager wings-they fly V. 73. Perdix. “ Perdrix.” Partridge. The breast of this bird, being very plump and fleshy, is generally preferred to any other part. We have read, but can hardly believe, that in some of the islands of the Archipelago, partridges are seen in droves, led by a boy like a flock of sheep or a bevy of fat geese. V. 74. Lepus. “ Lievre.” Hare. This animal was highly esteemed by the Homan epicures ; and Martial, who seems to have been a good Gastrologer, speaks of it in the following Lemma: Inter aves turdm, si quh rte iudice cerlel. Inter quadrupedes gwna prima lepus. Of all the birds, the thrush I deem the best; ’Mong quadrupeds, the hare beats all the rest.57 The manner of dressing a hare is either roasting or jugging it. Roasted, well larded with small slices of bacon, and basted with a sprig of thyme, it proyes excellent when the animal is in a proper state. Jugged, that is stewed with onions, carrots, chestnuts, pars- ley, and dice of bacon, it also pleases the most learned palates. This is called in French civet de lievre,” a common dish in the cuisine bourgeoise.” In Horace’s time, the shoulders of a female hare were looked upon as the best parts of the whole : FcBcundi leporis sapiens sectahitur armos.—Sat. 2. The following lines are elegantly descriptive of what this timid and innocent animal must feel when hunted in the plain : ———And who can tell what pangs. What dreadful aches, her throbbing bosom tear. When at her heels the yelping pack of hounds. Thro’ brakes, thro’ hedges, open lawns, and dales. Presses on her th’ insequent death ? She runs. She flies, and leaps, and bounces, to deceive The scent-inhaling foes, who urge the chace. And toil to catch a booty not their own. The dales, the lawns, she crosses back in vain. Till fainting—breathless—spent, at last she drops On some fresh verdant turf or thymy bank. Once the gay scene of her nocturnal sports. By the words ‘‘ a booty not their own,” the author alludes to this Hatin line. Sic vos non vobis curritis arvu canes ,• the only one which was ever added to the well-known Sic vos non vobis, filled up by Virgil. 1•)8 V. 75. Coturnix. “ Caille.” Quail. The Athe- nians used to keep these birds merely for the sport of fighting with each other, as game-cocks do, but nerer ate the flesh. It was that wild fowl which God con- descended to send to the chosen people as a suste- nance in the desert. This fact is alluded to in the dis- tich. Quails are generally roasted, surrounded with a slice of bacon and* a vine-leaf. ^Vhen free from a fishy taste, they prove very delicate. Lucretius men- tions that hellebore, veratrum^ a strong poison to man, fattens goats and quails. V. 78. Turdus, “ Grive.” Thrush. Though one of the most agreeable choristers of the vernal grove, this bird appears also, with the vine-leaf, be- fore the fire. It was a great dainty on the Athenian board. Homer, says Athenaeus, wrote a poem on the thrush, but it is lost. Agrippina had taught one to speak as well as a parrot or a magpie. The Ro- mans kept thousands of them in-most beautiful aviaries, surrounded with green boughs, where they fed upon the berries of laurel, myrtle, ivy, and other shrubs, on the brink of purling rills, winding gently in irri- guous mazes within the precincts of their captivity. Their flesh possesses a great deal of delicacy, when they are not too fat. V. 79. Palumbos, Pigeon-ramier.” Wood- pigeon. This bird was not one of those dishes which madfe up the Bill of Fare in the neighbourhood of Leicester-fields. Common pigeons were sometimes offered to the customers under the denomination of pigeons “ cn compote,” stewed pigeons j and “ i la59 crapaudine.” Dished up in this way with mushrooms and taragon yinegar, they eat delightfully; and their shape, in that plight, being not unlike that of a toad (Fr. crapaud), gave rise to the name. Pigeons were astonishingly numerous in France before- the Revolution j aud the Society of Agriculture de- clared that they yielded 4,200,000 pounds weight of flesh annually. They were of course extremely cheap. V. 85. Meleagrides. ‘‘Dindons.” Turkeys. Na- turalists are at variance upon the origin of this bird. Some pretend that it was not known before the dis- covery of America, and that the first which appeared on a table in I'ranee was eaten at the nuptials of Charles IX. in 1570. Henry VIII. had some of them brought to England in 1525, and they are supposed to be indigenous to Canada arid the adjacent countries, where they are found sometimes weighing upwards of fifty pounds. Credat Judeeus Apella. However, we must allow that the Norfolk breed does not fall considerably short of that weight. On the other hand, it is said that Meleager, a king of Macedonia, brought them from India into Greece, at a very early period; and that, out of gratitude for such an acquisition, the Athenian Gastronomers called the bird Meleagris. Mythology contends that they were so named from the Caledonian hero above mentioned, after whose death his woe-begone sisters were trans- formed into these birds of mournful appearance. But there is still a doubt whether the Me/eagm of Aristotle of Clytus, of Calixenes, of Ptolemy, and other authors60 of ancient times, was not the bird now known under the name of Guinea-hen. Ovid certainly says, B. viii. of the Metamorphoses, that Meleager’s sisters were turned into birds, but mentions nothing else, except that, having acquired horny beaks and exten- sive wings, they were sent adrift to find their way through the vacant air. The idea that the Jesuits brought them into notice is erroneous. They were known in Europe long before the institution of Loy- ola’s order. Why the French should call them alouettes de savetier,” cobbler’s larks, cannot easily be accounted for. This bird is so stupid, or timo- rous, that if yon balance a bit of straw on his head, or draw a line with chalk on the ground from his beak, he fancies himself so loaded or so bound, that he will remain in the same position till hunger forces him to move. We made the experiment. This bird is either roasted or boiled ; and, when of a good breed, possesses a flavour between the pheasant and the chicken. Turkey “ a la daube,” means the bird confined in a “ terrine” with truffles, maroons, &c. &c. and so baked in the oven that it may keep. It is eaten cold, and oflers an elegant and substantial relish for the luncheon of a Gastronomer. V. 86. Tuberibus. Truffles are of a most myste- rious origin ; they grow under ground, and show no sign of external vegetation ; so that the ancients doubted whether they did not propagate by juxta-position like minerals, Pliny, xix. 2. and this opinion was countenanced by the report that Caius Licinius, pretor in Spain, biting a truffle, had broken61 one of his teeth against a Roman denier, around which the truffle had accidentally grown. HowcTer Martial says: Itumpimus altricem tenero de verlice ttrram Tubera; holelis poma secunda sutnus. Next in taste to the best of mushrooms, we break the fostering ground with our tender head. 1 he fact is that no vegetable grows above their sub- terraneous cradle. A few crevices in the tophus, or sandy ground, are the only indications; and, through them, the perfume of the truffle betrays the secret to dogs and pigs, trained for the purpose of truffle-hunt- ing. From their situation subter topho, the Italians made the abbreviation tertuffo, tertuffalo, hence truffle English, “ truffe” French. Pliny and other authors assert, that when thunderstorms and showers are frequent in Autumn, truffles thrive better than at any other time. V. 88. Rusticula. “ Becasse.” Woodcock. The thigh of this bird is upon a level, as to delicacy, with the breast of the partridge. According to the refined taste of Gastronomers, woodcocks ought not to be gutted, and are roasted over a toast of bread, which receives and imbibes what ever falls from above. As they live by mere suction, their intestines cannot be more nauseous than the internal parts of a lobster, or a crawfish. V. 89. Scolopax. “ Becassine.’' Snipe. This diminutive of the preceding one is treated in the same culinary way. The beak of the snipe is com-G2 paratively longer than that of the woodcock; and the word scolopax is indifferently applied to either. V. 91. Cervus, dciinave. “ Cerf ou daim.” Stag or deer. In public eating-houses, these are not to be ex- pected. At some coffee-houses in London, a haunch of venison is sometimes announced Avith great pomp, and on such occasions a bill is stuck up at the win- dow in conspicuous type. V. 93. Cuniculus. Lapin.” Rabbit. The tame rabbit sometimes, but seldom the wild one, makes it ap- pearance ou the table d’hote. ‘‘ Gibblotte de lapin’’ is a good dish in the French Cuisine bourgeoise.”—The animal is cut in pieces, and tossed up in the pan with ba- con, carrots, turnips, and other ingredients; and, when made palatable, does honour and credit to the cook. V. 95. Carnalia fercula. Meat-dishes. Thus far the poet has been describing Avhat may be eaten Avhen the rules of the Roman Catholic church do not proscribe the use of flesh. But, on meagre days, the case is quite different; fish, vegetables, eggs and the like, are the dramatis personce of this representation on the still festive board; and by the ingenuity of Dame Cookery, a meagre dinner proves often as interesting, and generally as wholesome as any other sumptuous entertainment, for Avhich flesh, fowl, and fish, have been put into immediate attendance and lawful requisition. Vitellius, the gastrophile emperor,was treated by his brother with a dinner, consisting of 2,000 dishes of fish, and 7,000 of poultry; surely this is not doing things by halves.V. 98. Salmo. SaAinon." Salmon. The poem mentions only one way of cooking this noble fish, viz. broiling : but it is commonly boiled and eaten with lob- ster-sauce, and, when pickled, with oil and vinegar. V. 99. Frigitur Alburnus. Merlan frit." Fried whiting. This fish undergoes also the operation of boiling; but, frying being the most common way of dressing this delicate and salubrious gift of the Nereids, the author contented himself with taking notice of it. In France they are often broiled after having been lavishly powdered with flour; a circumstance which gave rise to the ludicrous appel- lation of “ Merlan” for a hair-dresser. The Latin alburnus^ from albus, “ white,” corresponds with tlie English name. The French ‘‘ Merlan” exceeds the extension of our ken in etymology, unless the fish is so called by antiphrasis, from merle a black bird, as lucus a non lucendo. If this be the case, the joke originated with the Romans, who called a mearl or black bird, meritla, and by the same name designated this white fish. V. 99. Butyro squalina nigrat. Rale au beurre noir.” Skate with burnt butter. The dish mentioned here means skate boiled first, and afterwards per- fused with butter burnt in the frying pan, to which sprigs of parsley are added ; this being done, vinegar is thrown into the pan with salt, and also poured upon the fish. When very fresh, it is generally eaten with plain melted butter and capers. The skate had long been neglected in this country, but came of late so much in vogue, that what sold for a groat thirty years64 ago, now fetches fiye or six shillings. The Latin word squaiina seems to issue from the monosyllable squat, which descended into the English language from some original tongue anterior to Latin ; ior squaiina is a de- rivative of squat. Skate is a corruption of squaiina. The natural position of this and similar fishes at the bottom of the sea, where lying flat and squat they pa- tiently wait for their prey in the oose which they stir, with the shaking of their wing-like flanks, originated the denomination. 100. Capita, asellus. Codfish, fresh and salt. morue fraiche; morue salee.” The names of capita, and asellus a young ass, given to this excellent fish, allude to the notorious bigness of his head. The pro- lific powers, granted by Providence to this inmate of the sea, is wonderful, and seems to indicate the whole- someness of his flesh ofliered to man as a palatable and innocuous food. The spawn of a large codfish con- tains between three and four millions of eggs. V. 101. Passer. Pile.” Plaice is common on the coast of Holland, and not unlike the turbot in shape, but of a much inferior flavour. The back is speckled with yellow round spots upon a brown- green ground, and the head much more acute than that of the turbot. The plaice was known to the ancients ; but commentators have questioned whe- ther its name does not mean also the flounder, which approaches it in shape as well as in taste. Columella, 8, 16, mentions it with the turbot and the sole. Limosa regia planum educat piscem ve- lut soleam, rhombum, passerem; “ The oozy parts63 breed flat fishes, as soles, turbots, and plaie,e.” Why tlic Romans should have called this fish passer, Tvhich the bird sparrow claims for its etymon, we cannot tell. V. 102. Scomber. “ Maquereau.” Mackerel. The allusion expressed in Hie pudens inf ami no- mine, ‘^ashamed of its infamous name,” points to the name of the fish given in France to what is meant in English by a pimp. It is commonly said that no man ever saw this fish alive out of the water j indeed, as soon as he leaves his native element, he dies. Mackerel was allowed to be cried through the streets of London on Sundays for the first time in the year 1698. The best Avay of eating mackerel is to broil it in buttered paper upon the gridiron ; and, when properly done, to put fresh butter in the inside, with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, which melts and adds an exceedingly good flavour to the fish. This dressing is called a la maitre d’hotel.” V. 103, 105. Ilalec. ‘‘ Hareng.” Herring. This fish is eaten either fresh, pickled, or fumi- gated. The last is called in French Hareng sore, red herring, the word sore, or saure meaning in old French, reddish, of a tint between yellow and red, sorrel-co\oor. In this state the fish is often laid upon a puree de pois, ’ a sort of pease-pudding, after it has been gently broiled. Pickled herrings arc eaten as they are taken from the tub, with oil and vinegar, pepper and mustard; in French, hareng pec, from pickled. Fresh herrings arc commonly broiled and K66 generally dished up with melted butter and plenty of mustard in it. Sinapi. This small seed, which is of so com- mon a use with us, was also in great repute among ancient cooks; and its pungent acidity is elegant- ly recorded by Columella, 10, 123. Fletum factura sinapi; the tear-eliciting mustard. Plautus calls it scelerata sinapis, on account of its biting sharp- ness. The etymology of mustard ought to be recorded here. In 1382, Philip the bold, Duke of Burgundy, going to march against his revolted neighbours, and Di- jon having furnished for that expedition its quantum of 1,000 armed men, the duke, in kind acknowledgment, granted to the town, among other privileges the permis- sion of bearing his armorial ensigns with his motto, moult me tarde, “ I long, I wish ardently.” In consequence of this mark of princely condescension, the Dijonese municipality ordered the arms and motto to be beau- tifully sculptured over the principal gate of the city, which was done accordingly. But time, tempus edax, and that incessant drop of water which causes the destruction of the hardest stone, non vi sed sape ca- dendo, or some particular accident, having obliterated the middle word me^ the remaining ones, moult^ tarde^ gave occasion to the name in the following manner. For a long lapse of time, the merchants of Dijon have been and are still great dealers in sin'evb^ or sinapi, (mustard seed,) and have a method of grinding it with salt, vinegar, and other ingredients, in or- der to preserve it and send it to all parts of theG7 world. On their irncv^-pots they used to paste a label, ensigned with the Duke of Burgundy’s arms and the motto as it accidentally remained then over the gate of the city, moull-tarde; hence the name which the sinapi composition has preserved to this day. It might be observed that the natural pun- gency of this little seed,expressed in Latin by multum ardet, and in old French by moult arde, it burns much,” might be taken as the real themaoi the word. But it does not appear that the Dijonese were ever scholars enough as to borrow from the tongue of Ci- cero a denomination for the object of their trade. However, in latter times, an eminent mustard-manu- facturer of that place proved himself somewhat ac- quainted with Latin, since he wrote jocosely over his shop-door,tardat, Divio rixam; that is. Moult- iarde, Dijon-noise; Dijon-mustard.” Pliny pre- tends that mustard is an antidote against venomous mushrooms. B. xix. ch. 8. & 22. V. 104. Musculus. Moule.” Muscle. In France, this fish is thrown « house and tenant” into the pan. Tossed up with butter, parsley, pepper, and floury and, served up in that condition, shell, fish, and sauce, all together, it is very palatable. V. 108. Ostrea. “ Huitre.” Oyster. The Athe- nians held oysters in great esteem. They were not common at Rome, and consequently fetched there a very high price; yet Macrobius assures us, that the Roman PontilFs never missed to have them every day on their tables. From the fourth century to the reign of Louis XIV. they were nearly forgotten; but they68 Boon came again into vogue, and from that time have kept up their reputation. Gastronomers, -vve know, can swallow three or four dozen before dinner, and then sit down to eat heartily, and perhaps better than if they had abstained from them. They clear the stomach of accidental phlegm, increase the gastric juices, and, by their natural coolness, condense the air w'hich may be fixed in the organs of digestion. When good, they are wholesome, but poisonous when bad. V. 109. LocustcE cauda. Homar.” Lobster. This last word is a sad distortion of the Latin Locusta, a grasshopper, a locust. This crustaceous fish, which when in season is delightful for the taste, purity and firmness of its flesh, grows to a large size, if, concealed in the rocky caverns of the deep, it can avoid the rapacity of its enemies, among whom the fisherman is not the least dangerous. Lobsters sometimes measure two feet and upwards; but Olaus Magnus, Hist. L. 21. c. 34. and Gesner de Piscibus, L. 4. pretend that in the Indian seas, and on the shores of Norway, lob- sters have been found twelve feet long and six broad, seizing mariners with their gigantic claws, and drag- ging them along into the deep to devour them! !! The french proverb says, ‘‘ a beau mentir qui vient de loin.” V. 110. SquillU) the Shrimp or Prawn, was known to the ancients. The French call them either Cre- vetfes, as diminutive, or small “ ecrevices,” craw- fishes ; or “ chevrettes,” little goats, on account of their long beards, and their leaping and skipping in69 sliallow water on the sandy beach. They are an ex- cellent relish. V. 111. Gobio, Barbatus, MuUus. “ Goujeon, Barheau, Mullet.” Gudgeon, Barbel, Mullet. Ihese fresh-water fishes are too well known, and too insig- nificant, to require a description. The Perch and the Tench will be allowed to glide along the silver stream, and shall not be fished up to swell our notes. V. 115. Anguilla. “ Anguille.” Eel. This last word seems to have been caught at the tail of the Latin or French name. When well managed by a clever cook, the fat and indigestive qualities of the eel disappear, and the food becomes wholesome. The Egyptians placed eels on a level with their gods; they worshipped them, perhaps as a milder sort of ser- pents, emblems of eternity; and priests were salaried to feed the sacred ones every day with cheese and the garbage of animals in ponds where they lived centu- ries, and grew to an immense bulk. No animal is more tenacious of life. It is reported that eels are fond of harmonious sounds, and that fishermen in the Mediterranean take with them musicians in their boats, in order to allure the fish to the net. That they are amphibious, and leap out of the water to feed on the verdant grass of the banks, seems indis- putable. V. 120. Lucius. “ Brochet.” Pike. The ty- rant, the terror, the destroyer, of the fish-pond. The poet represents him dressed, as the French style it, “ au bleu.” Boiled in wine, with onions, carrots, parsley, pepper, and salt, he is allowed to get cold ;70 and llien, laid on a napkin in stateliness, supported by a tray, he takes his situation on the table. It is deservedly reckoned by all Gastronomers very ex- cellent eating. The flesh is white, firm, and tasteful, and the bones (which the French, in all fishes, pro- perly call a/Tt^e, from arreter,” to stop, because they stop the voracity of the eater) are, in a large subject, so slender, so pliant, that they can easily be put aside, or, if accidentally swallowed, do no harm. Pikes grow to an astonishing size. The skeleton of one which weighed 350 pounds, has long been preserved at Manheim. Thrown in a pond by the Emperor Barbarossa, with a brass elastic collar, he was taken up in 1497, at the suprising age of 267 years. On the collar Avas engraved the following inscription in Greek: “ I am the first fish which was put into this lake by the hands of the governor of the universe, Frederic II. the 5th of October, 1230.” Lacepede, (Hist, des Poissons) pretends that the existence and bulk of fishes and amphibious ani- mals, may increase to an incalculable extent. The metamorphosis annexed in the poem to the article of this fish, is an humble imitation of other didac- tic poets, in order to enliven the too serious uni- formity of a nomenclature. See Ovid’s Fasti, Rapin’s Ilorli, See. V. 123. Mappa. “Napkin.” They were known at Rome as early as the reign of Augustus : every guest used to bring his own with him, but was not71 always sure to carry it back. Catullus mentions one Asinius who had stolen his; and Martial has left a charming epigram upon the parasite Ilermogenes, who finding no napkin to steal, ran away with the table- cloth. B. 12. 29. Attulerat mappam nemo, dum furta timentur: Manlile i men$& surpuit Hermogenes. This rage for pilfering napkins was fatal to their use, and they were given up, it seems, till the fifteenth century, when the first were made at Rheims, and presented to Charles VII. king of France. V. 134. Curpio. Truite.” Trout- Where a running stream of clear water, checkered by the in- terposition of impending willows or other trees, pur- sues its course under the blaze of a summer sun ; there the trout, one of the best among the Cyprine family, gambols lively or swiftly darts over the shining peb- bles at the bottom of the brook. A luscious taste, between those of the salmon and the carp, distin- guishes this delicate gift of the Naiads. When dressed, its flesh is red and very delicious. The Latin word carpio has been sometimes translated by carp, but erroneously. (Ainsworth and others.) Trutta is modern. The word carpio alludes to the mouth of the fish, and has been alliterated with its original carpere in the poem. V. 135. Auratus Zeus. “ Dorade,” or “Poisson^ deSt. Pierre.” John Doree, from“ Jaune Dore,”Fr. Surely the ancients must have entertained a sort of religious regard for this fish, since they gave him the72 name of Jupiter, Zeus. But most likely this Latiii word comes from some other source. This fish con- tends with the haddock for the honour of bearing the marks of St. Peter’s fingers on his shoulders; and some legendary writers, considering his wrinkled and depressed shape, assert that he certainly was trod upon by the gigantic foot of St. Christopher, who used to ford an arm of the sea with passengers on his back: a fact which was recorded in hymns an- ciently sung on his festival-day, and in which the following naif^ and yet preposterous, passage is found : Quando transivit Jluvium, Non tetigil unda culum. And when he cross’d the foaming sea. The water did not reach his knee. The partiality of Quin for this fish is well known ; * and no one can refuse to John the palm of delicacy among the fishes, and indeed above the turbot himself. V. 136. Rhombus. “ 'I'urbot.” Turbot. This fish was known to the Athenians, and has been ever since a worthy object of Gastronomical worship. Some Ichthyographers relate that turbots have grown to the extent of five cubits in length. Such must have been the sea-monster, Spalium adniirabilc Rhombi, brought to Domitian and of which Juvenal says. Sat. iv. Sed deerat pisci palincc mensura. Vocanlur Ergo in concilium procercs. No vessel they find fit to hold such a fish. And the senate’s convok’d to decree a new dish.73 Turbots, were anciently caught in the Euxine and Adriatic seas, and thrive on the shores of Devonshire as Avell as, and perhaps better than, any where else. V. 137. Elops. ‘‘Esturgeon.” Sturgeon. The five roAvs of large bony tubercles which rise on the sides of this pentagonal fish, are alluded to in the poem by the epithet hirtus. His flesh, properly pickled, is reckoned a delicacy. Gatis, queen of f^yria, Avas so excessively fond of sturgeon that she enacted a laAV, prohibiting the sale and purchase of this or any other fish, but after her refusal and with her special permission. (Athenaeus, B. 3. ch. 4.) It is said also that the sturgeon Avas ex- clusively reserved for the table of Henry I. of Eng- land; that his successor, king Stephen, in 1138, mi- tigated this law; but that after his death it was en- forced again. The Parisian « poissardes ” used an- nually to present the king with an enormous sturgeon; the portraits of the finest of them were preserved as great curiosities. Pallas relates that in the Caspian sea, sturgeons grow to the almost incredible size of forty feet in length, and weigh upwards of two thou- sand pounds! — Acipenser, and sturio, are other names for the same fish. V. 140. Maria condit jecur. The liver, spawn, and other internal parts, of the sturgeon, are pickled by the Russians and sold under the name of caviare. This kind of fish-sauce was known to the Romans, and called garum, see Pliny, 31. Land is one of the indispensable seasonings for the Turkish pilau. V. 142. Cyprinus. “ Carpe." Carp. This ex-74 cellent fish was brought into England in 1514, and into Denmark in 1560. Carps are kept and fattened in Holland throughout winter on a bed of damp moss, in a cellar, and fed with bread and milk. They are known to have grown to the extraordinary weight of sixty pounds. The tongue of this fish is reckoned the most delicate part of the whole ; and a Mr. Ver- delet de Bourbonne is said to have been so fond of it, that he bought once 3000 carps, for the mere sake of their tongues which were brought well-sea- soned and learnedly-dressed to his table in one dish. (Cours Gastronomique.) Chantilly and Fontaine- bleau can vouch for the longevity, tameness, and bristliness, of carps. This fish, be-drop’d with gold, ’ (Pope) is mentioned by Pliny and others under the name of Cyprinus. The mythological passage in the poem gives a fabulous etymology in the absence of any other. V. 153. FabcB. ‘‘ Feves.” Beans; especially “ Windsor beans,” as they are vulgarly called. This pulse, or legiimen, is generally dished up in foreign countries without the outqrcoat, and, in that undress, proves a most delicate food. Why Pythagoras should have forbidden the use of beans to his disciples, has been a mighty subject for the ingenuity of commen- tators. Some have asserted that it was on account of their causing flatulency ; others because they -were sacred to Isis and Osiris, Egyptian deities of whom the Samian sage had heard and believed much from the priests of Memphis. Some take the prohibition allegorically, and hold that to abstain from them, only75 meant to keep aloof from public assemblies where suffrages were given by casts of beans. There is now-a-days a belief among the vulgar that when beans are in blossom mad people become intractable, and wise men nearly mad. In fact, Pythagoras’s motive for that prohibition, if he had any motive at all, is still enveloped in obscurity. Horace, Sat. 11, 6, styles the bean akin to Pythagoras, Faba Pytha- gorce cognata^ as if the promulgator of the metem- psychosical system had been afraid lest in eating beans he should have devoured some of his departed re- lations. The classical reader knows that most of the ancient Roman families derived their names from agricultural or horticultural pursuits. Fabce, beans, named the great house of the Fabii. Pisum, pease, that of the Pisones. Cicer, chick-pease, which the French call “ pois chiche,” gave a surname to the orator Tully. Lentes, lentils, to Lentulus. Tuber, a truffle, to Tubero. Cepa, or cape, an onion, to the Ccepiones, Vitellius is diminished from viiulus, a calf. Horten- sius, from hortus, garden. The Porcii to whom the surname of Cato belonged, were feeders of pigs. Verres is reminded by Tully that his name means a hoar. The Furii, came from furjur, bran; and the illustrious family of the Cornelii numbered probably among their ancestors wealthy possessors of horned cattle. There is a very ancient and singular custom in several parts of the continent, of which we have here but a mere memento. It is connected with76 the above-mentioned sacredness of the bean, takes place on the eve of Epiphany, and is performed in the following manner. A cake, made of flour, butter, and eggs, and of a size proportionable to the number of the guests, is brought in and divided into as many shares as “ convives ” are going to sit down to supper. These pieces, one of which conceals a bean lodged in the outer part of the cake, are tossed up in a nap- kin. The youngest person in the company, comes forward, and having said grace, takes hold of a slice without looking at it, and then addresses the master of the house by these words: “ Fabai Do- mine (lord of the bean), who is this for ? ” An answer is given, and when all the shares are drawn, the guest who finds the bean in his or her possession is declared king or queen of the feast, and becomes possessed of all the rights belonging to the Architricli- nus or Amphitryo for the night. When either drinks, if any one in the company misses to say aloud, “ the king” or “ the queen drinks,” a fine is lawfully ex- acted, which consists in a pledge deposited in the hands of some one, to be redeemed after supper by a kiss or a song. This sort of amusement was well known at Rome, with this difference, that the king of the feast was not chosen by means of a bean, but by the cast .of small bones called iali. They are the ankle-bones of sheep, which school-boys in France still use for a game called “ osselets;” having been previously smoothed upon a stone, and reduced to four sides. The tesserwy dice, have six. Horace sfiys. Car. B. 1. Od. 4.77 Domus exilis Plutonia, quh simul me&ris Nec regna vini sortiere talis. But when you sink to Pluto’s halJ> No little rattling bones shall fall To chusc you Monarch of the wine. V. 154. Samius senex. Pythagoras divulged in Magna Grcecia what he had learned in his travels through Egypt and India j the amount of which is not of a very considerable value. However, the best thing he ever taught his disciples was the difficult art of being silent, or of never speaking but to the pur- pose. V. 165. Phaselus. “ Haricot blanc.” French beans. This pulse is eaten at two different periods. In summer, with the enwrapping pod which is still green and tender. In autumn and winter, when the bean, in full maturity, is taken out of, and boiled without, the pod. This envelope, on account of its navicular shape, gave its name to a kind of skiff used in the Mediterranean, and especially about the mouths of the Nile. Virg. Geo. 4. 289. This pulse is called in ancient English authors, « beans of Rome,” a mistranslation of « feves de Rame, ” from ramus, the twig or pole around which the plant loves to climb; and “ Welsh beans,” as if « Gallic beans.” Easels, is still used in some parts of Great Britain. The pentameter alludes to their being impregnated with a great quantity of fixed air, and therefore not always very wholesome, unless the stomach is prepared to counteract their iEolian powers by an adequate quantity of absorbent juices78 in the digestiTe organs. This legumen is supposed to haye been originally a native of India, and propagated in Greece after the visit of Alexander to the banks of the Ganges. V. 157. Asparagus. “ Asperge.” Asparagus and sperage, or sparrowgrass, and, for brevity’s sake, grass. This vegetable possesses great volatility of parts and peculiar diuretic powers. The name is of Greek origin and alludes to its sprouting entirely naked from the ground; that is, without cotyledons or leaves. It reminds us of a curious trick which a wag played once upon a countryman, who had no know- ledge whatsoever of the existence of such a production as asparagus. They were travelling together, and arrived, on a Friday, at an inn in a small town near Arras, in France, intending to sup and sleep there The wag asked the landlord what he had to give them ? There was nothing in the house but plenty of asparagus and eggs. ^Vell then let us have first an omelet, and whilst we are eating it, boil us some of your best asparagus.”—It was done accordingly : the omelet was served up in a few minutes.—If I cut it in two,” said the knowing one, ‘‘ you will draw your share to your plate, and I the other half to mine.” The countryman bowed assent, the omelet was divided and declared exceedingly good. Then comes the as- paragus : I do not remember to have ever seen these sort of things before,” said the countryman, how curious they look—are they peculiar to this part of the world ? ”—Without answering this preliminary79 question, We will do,” said the wag, as we did before ; ” and he severed the whole bunch in two. By an unperceived wirling of the dish, the white part / became the lot of the peasant, who, beginning to tear and chew and masticate to no purpose, declared with a solemn oath, that as this was the first, it should be also the last time he would attempt to make a meal of asparagus.—The wag, of course, enjoyed the whole of the verdant and tender heads of the vege- table. Asparagus is of so tender a contexture, that a very few minutes of boiling render it perfectly eatable, par- ticularly when just cut down, and brought from the garden. To express that a thing was to be done quickly, the Romans used this saying: Velocius quani asfparagl coqiiuntur; Quicker than asparagus is boiled.—(Suetonius, Aug. Crns.)—Juvenal, Sat. V. 82. mentions an immense lobster brought on the table, surrounded with this vegetable, septa asparagis. By a passage. Sat. xi. 69. of the same au- thor, it appears also that it was sometimes gathered wild on the mountains, montani asparagi, by farmers’ wives who laid down their spindles to go and cull it just in time—posito quos legit villica fuso. V. 158. Cinaram. “ Articliaud.” Artichoke. This is really a thistle, which, by cultivation it seems, has obtained esculent qualities of the first rate. The bottom of a good artichoke is, perhaps, one of the best substances which the kitchen garden can oflTer to the table of its master.—Columella (B. 10. 235.) gives an elegantly poetical description of this80 useful plant. The culinary art possessed itself of this valuable article, and admits it either fresh or preserved in fricassees, ragouts, pies, &c. with emi- nent success. The fruit, if we may call it so, grows at the top of the stem. Each branch has also its own fruit, but being secondary, it is smaller. Eaten raw at breakfast in foreign countries with pepper and salt, under the name of “ artichauds a la poivrade,” it gives an uncommon relish to a glass of “ cham- pagne,” and exhilarates the mind for the rest of the day. This regimen, we are convinced, would not prove wholesome in this latitude. It appears that the French were indebted to the Venetians for this ex- cellent vegetable in the year 1473. Theophrastus knew and described it under the name of carduus es- culentus, the esculent thistle. It is of a heating na- ture, as appears by the name, which may be resolved into artus, limbs, and calidus, warm, as if w'arming the limbs of the body. The cultivation of it origi- nated in Cynara, an island of the Archipelago, to Avhich it probably gave, or from which it may have received, its name. V. 159. Palladius liquor. Huile.” Oil. The olive-trees were planted by the Phoceans in the fruit- ful vales of Provence, and their product was soon known to the rest of Europe. Florence, Lucca, and other meridional places, are famous for the excellent quality of their oil. Palladius alludes to Pallas and her contest with Neptune to present the rising town of Athens with an useful gift. Neptune struck the ground with his, “ earth-moving” trident, and up sprung a81 war*horse. Pallas bade the earth to teem, and the olive of peace rose from the ground; her present of course was declared the best.—Acetum. “ Vinaigre.” Vinegar and oil are put (we cannot say mixed) toge- ther, in several occasions. Their opposite charac- ters do not agree on the plate; but the result of their natural antipathy proves agreeable to the palate, and comfortable to the stomach. V. 160. JButyro. “ Beurre.” Butter. This useful substance is nearly a general agent in all the mysteries of the kitchen. It is the ground, the digester, the companion, the friend, of almost all the dishes which are served up to the Amphitryo and his guests, al- though it seems to have been hardly known 400 years before the Christian era to the Greeks, who bought it ready-made from the Parthians under the name of oil of milk,” Pliny, 11. 41.; and it is described by this author as a sort of foreign nostrum among the Romans, which the barbarians used as food. But the Jews knew it long before that period, since it is mentioned under the name of chameah, pinguedo lac- tisy and made a part of the feast when Abraham treated the angels. Gen. xviii. 8. When hot, asparagus and artichokes are eaten with plain melted butter; when cold, with vinegar and oil. Fontenelle, the French academician, had in- vited a friend to a “ tete a t^te” dinner. Asparagus, having just sprung into season, made a notable ar- ticle among the “ entremets.” The guest, being asked what sort of sauce he should prefer, answered frankly, “ oil and vinegar.” Fontenelle did not like M82 that way, and therefore directed the cook to dress half of the bundle with melted butter for himself, and the other half as his guest had desired : but about the middle of the dinner the visitor was struck with an apoplectic fit.—Fontenelle, undisturbed by the awful event, runs to the top of the stairs and bawls to the cook “ tout au beurre,” the whole bundle with melted butter ! Horresco referens ! V. 173. Lentes. “ Lentilles. ” Lentil. This pulse is little known in this country, but much used on the continent. It yields a sort of “ puree,” or pudding, similar to that of pease ; Avith this difference that it is of a brown dusky colour, fused fevniginc^ and is said to improve the quality of the milk in the breasts of nurses. The Romans knew it well. Virgil, Geo. 1. 228. says: Nec PelusiaccE curam asjiernahere lenlis. Pelusian lentils too deserve your care. Martial calls this legumen, or pulse, Pelusia mu- nera; from which and other authorities it appears that it was conveyed to Rome from Pelusium, now Damietta. Might not the word pulse^ be referred, by metathesis, to Pelusiuui ? Sheep’s tails, geese and turkies’ pinions, are often served up with the accompaniment of lentil-pudding, and consti- tute a learned dish in the cuisine bourgeoise.” The pentameter line alludes to the bargain be- tween Esau and Jacob concerning the transfer Avhich the former made of his birthright to his bro- ther. Gen. XXV. 34. Was this pulse conveyed from83 Judea to Egypt by the family of Jacob, and from that time cultivated there ? Nothing is more prob- able, and the sons of Israel obtained it perhaps from India. V. 175. SpinacecE. ‘‘Epinards.” Spinach. This oIms is so named on account of the shape of its leaf, which resembles a thorn, spina, or rather the head of an ar- row or spear: the name is of modern latinity. No dish of that kind of herbs is more palatable than this, when, fried with as much fresh butter as it can absorb, with chopped onion, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, the spinach makes its appearance on the table. Lozenge-pieces of fried bread will bastion the dish, contrasting most elegantly with their yellow hue the deep green of the spinach. This warm and pleasing herb came to England from Holland, and was not introduced in French dishes sooner than about two centuries and a half ago. Salariu. “Celery.” Salary (Ainsworth) or ce- lery, from cella, Lat. Apium cellare. This plant is bleached in long cells, or furrows, opened in the gar- den, and is reckoned of a very warm temper. It is a branch of the Apium family, and of great use in soups and sallads. V. 176. Beta. “ Bete.” Beet. The red beet-root, the most ancient cultivation of which is traced to Bohemia, stands here alluded to, as it plainly ap- pears, by the incidental addition of gaudens Tyrio murice, the Tyrian purple dye, so famous among the ancients. This root is never served with sallad on the continent., without having been previously boiled or84 baked under hot ashes or in an oven. Indeed, when raw, it is so tough and tasteless that it requires all the strength of mastication ; but, after having passed through the ordeal of fire, it becomes mellow, of a pleasing taste, and so sweet, that Napoleon, when he refused admission to colonial products into France, expected to extract out of this plant enough of sugar to supply his then extensive dominions. He was disappointed. This fact has been well ridiculed in one of the caricatures of the time, representing the little king of Rome on the lap of his nurse, nibbling at a large beet-root, with this motto—“ Mangez, mangez, mon roi, votre papa dit que c’est du sucre: ” Eat, eat on, my king, your papa says it is sugar. V. 177. Solanum. Pommes de terre.” Po- tatoes. As our poet properly remarks, this excellent farinaceous food, unknown to the ancients, was found in America. It certainly belongs to the Ao/c- num family; but by some curious and inexplicable accident, whilst the other branches throve in Europe, Asia, and Africa, their relation was for many cen- turies propagated in an unknown part of the globe. Sir Walter Raleigh found them in Virginia, and brought them to the British isles. Queen Elizabeth had them on her table, says a Gastrographer, when the pleasing news of (he destruction of the famous Armada was brought to her. They were first ea- gerly cultivated in Ireland, where they met with a congenial soil, and soon spread over the rest of the old continent.V. 183. Ovu. “ CEufs.” Eggs, To have en- tered into a complete enumeration of all the ways in which eggs may be dressed for the table, would have been as difficult a task for the author as it w'ould have proved tedious to the reader. A few are mentioned in the poem; Poached eggs, oeufs poches.” Eggs with sorrel, “ mufs a I’ozeille that is when poached or hard-boiled eggs are laid upon a stratum of sorrel. Eggs with onions, “ oeufs k la tripe hard-boiled eggs tossed up in the pan with onions. CEufs k la chico- ree hard-boiled eggs laid on boiled endive. Ome- lette aux fines herbes; ” an omelet with onion, parsley, &c. This last mentioned manner of dressing eggs is the quickest, and generally the best. The eggs are broken into a basin : beaten well with a fork or spoon, whilst fresh butter melts in the frying-pan. A little chopped parsley and onion, pepper and salt, are added to them, and the whole thrown into the butter. The art consists in gathering quickly all the ridges and swells of the eggs towards the centre; and in about one minute and a half, on a brisk fire, the work is done. The omelet is doubled over on the dish, and served up immediately. The etymology of the M'ord, as observed before, arises from a Latin vocable of no great standard, animellce, the sweet- bread in a hog. Desbarreaux, the Freneh poet, is said to have been converted to a sense of religion by an omelet. (C. G.) However, when we consider that the very small quantity of elemental air concealed under the blunt end of the egg, being dilated by the heat of incubation, forces the whole of the contents8(5 into organization, motion, and life, we cannot help musing,^’ in awful silence, “ the praise ” of God in the works of nature. Sometimes eggs are positively roasted. In countries where wood-fire is constantly used, the cottager half buries his eggs in an upright position in hot ashes upon the hearth; and when a clear dew-drcp oozes on the top of the shell, the eggs are fit to be eaten. Ovid was not ignorant of this practice, for he says. Met. viii. 667. Ovaqtie, non acri leviter versata Javilld, . —New-laid eggs, with Baucis’ busy care. Turn’d by a gentle fire and roasted rare.—Dryden. Gastrologers are of opinion that, done in this way, eggs have^ a much better flavour than when boiled. Fancy goes far in matters of taste. After all, the most extraordinary manner of cook- ing eggs is, as it stands recorded, to turn them round in a sling till they appear slightly-boiled. This was, we are told, an Egyptian custom. A more credible assertion is, that long eggs contain a male sperm, but this we also doubt; although Horace declares that the same opinion was indisputably held by the epicurean bon-vivants” in his time. However the Schola Salernitana gives a good precept as to the choice of eggs I— Si sumas ovum molle sil atque novum. If thou takest an egg, let it be soft and new. The surest mode of trying an egg is to apply the87 tip of the tongue to the blunt end; if it feels warm, and the acute end cold, it is a proof that no fermen- tation has yet taken place. Peacock’s eggs were reckoned a great dainty in Rome. — Q. Hortensius began this sort of luxury when he was instituted Augur; he paid twenty pence for each egg, and had many brought to his table. Eggs were much venerated by idolatrous antiquity as symbols of the world, orbis. Philosophers saw the four elements in them. The yolk represents lire ; the white, water; the cupola contains air; and the calcareous shell identifies the earth. For this reason Orpheus and Pythagoras abstained from eggs, and the Greeks and Romans carried them with great pomp in the processions of the Cerealia. Eggs were part of the first course at a Roman dinner: see Herat. Sat. 1. 3. 6. ab ovo usque ad mala—from the beginning to the end. In modern entertainments they generally come in the rear. This expression, “ ab ovo," from the beginning, alludes also to those prolix narrators who would begin the history of the siege of Troy by the circumstance of Castor and Pollux, as well as Helen and Clytemnestra, having been hatched out of Leda’s eggs. Hor. Art. Poet. This fable is alluded to in the hexameter; Pollux and Castor were hatched out of a couple of eggs, says our poet; yet you boldly call for them, as if you were not afraid of finding there, not the Dioscuri, but some half-formed chickens. Pliny, B. 18, cap. 35, relates that Livia, during her pregnancy.88 consulted a fortune-teller, who advised her to hatch an egg by the warmth of her bosom, observing, that If It should bring forth a male chick, she might reckon upon the infallible birth of a son. The event turned out conformably to the prediction, for she hatched a young cock, and afterwards brought Tiberius into the ■world. Most of the Roman matrons followed the ex- ample ; and, like brooding hens, devoted themselves to the curious amusement of gallinaceous incubation. The Romans used to make presents of eggs to their friends at the beginning of the year, in memory of Castor and Pollux. This custom still exists in foreign countries, but arises from another cause. Eggs were forbidden during the time of Lent; and at Easter they were boiled by thousands, coloured of divers hues, gilt, engraved, and lavishly given to children. Louis XV. had pyramids of them in his apartments at Ver- sailles, and distributed them to his courtiers. The manner of engraving upon an egg is to cover it with wax dissolved in spirit of turpentine, and to steep it in strong vinegar, till the acid begins to work upon the parts of the shell, which have been scraped by the graving tool. (C. G.) Spirit of wine clears off the varnish. V. 185. Alba sub chlamyde ovum. (Eufs poches.” Poached eggs, generally served up, in a silver spoon, with rich gravy. Poached, is de- rived from the French poche,” pocket; the yolk of the egg, being enclosed in the substantiated al- bumen or white, appears as if enclosed in a pouch. The French say,an egg in its shirt, " en chemise."89 Cochlear, ‘^cuiller/’aspoon. The Latin name origi- nates from xoxXof, cochlea, a cockle-shell, the shape of which was originally imitated in the formatfon of a spoon. V. 189. Niveo colore ova. CEufs a la Neige.” Trifles. Eggs, well tossed up and properly tormented with a sort of whisk made of slender twigs for the purpose. The white of eggs, milk, and other ingre- dients, confining bubbles of air, swell to a frothy, light, and snow-white, substance, and are served among the “ entremets.” They appear in company with the tremulous « blanc-manger,” the multiform and amber-colour jellies, &c. on the very line of demar- cation between the rear of the second course and the van of the dessert. V. 191. Frigitur ovum. Fried eggs. This way of eating them is not to be laid aside. Fresh butter, hissing in the pan, receives the yolk and white, the vitellum and the albumen together, in its burning bo- som. One minute or two, and all the noise is over; and, sprinkled with pepper, salt, and a few drops of vinegar, they appear perfectly fit for the palate of the Gastronomer. The salamander x?. often held over them, and accelerates the culinary process. V. 192. Ova in patelld. « CEufs au miroir.” Eggs on an earthen pan. The vessel, in which the eggs are cooked upon a gentle fire of charcoal, being very smooth, furnished the idea of a looking-glass, or mirror, “ miroir," and suggested the quotation from Terence, Veluti in speculum, Adelphi, 3, 3, 61, with a slight grammatical alteration. N90 V. 195. Mala sub lagano. “ Eeignets auxpommes.” Apple fritters. Sire de Joinyille relates, in his life of St. Louis, that the Saracens “ most graciously” presented the French monarch and his valiant knights with fritters, when they granted them their highly- ransomed liberty. The French word “ Beignets,” obviously shows its origin from the verb “ baig- ner,” to bathe, as they are dipped in hot melted butter. V. 197. Oryza, “ Pain de riz.” Rice pudding. This was constantly offered at the close of the dinner at Guedon’s table d’hote. A bastion or moat of rice often surrounds sweet meats, roasted apples with a “ glacis,” jams, “ marmelades,” &c. V. 198. Placenta. “ Patisserie.” Tarts, pies, &c. All that Cookery’s sister art. Pastry, can produce, is alluded to under this word. From the small oven of the kitchen issues forth an innumerable quantity of pleasing little articles, destined to fill up some still- empty cells in the department of digestion. Flour of the finest quality is, of course, the basis; butter, the cement; and yeast gives life to the whole. Ac- cording to Athenaeus, Deipns. Lib. iii. c. 28. this sort of food was originally nothing more than a purer sort of bread to which honey, sweet-meats, comfits, or preserved fruit, were added. Some authors assert thatthe inventor of pastry, with all its mysteries and appendages, was a certain Thearion, a Sicilian baker who brought his humble trade to a much higher des- tination, 457 years before the Christian era. The Ro- mans were extremely fond of pastry. Cakes, or91 “ gaieties,” were used at the altar, on the tables of the rich, and at the scanty repast of the poor. In chivalrous ages, the lady of the castle did not disdain to prepare herself the “ gateaux,” large cakes, for the “ preux,” knights, whose sounding horns solicited ad- mission at the draw-bridge; and, in 802, by an edict of Louis the Debonnair, a farmer was compelled to bring, as an annual “ redevance,” five sacks of the finest wheaten flour to the monks of St. Denis, for the exclusive use and sole disposal of the pastry-cooks of the convent. Tantmne animis coelestihus . ... ! Such rage for cakes in monkish times prevail’d I However, medical anathemas have often been thun- dered by the Faculty against pastry ; for, although it feels light in the mouth, and tasteful to the palate, yet very few stomachs are able to bear its indigestible heaviness. V. 199. Monialia munera. “ Beignets soufiles.” Puffs. It is almost impossible to mention the name which these fritters have obtained and still retain in France, without a gentle suffusion of crimson pu- dency. Nuns, who, though practising the strictest abstinence, were very ingenious in contriving pleasing dishes for the directors of their souls, have in their retirement and solitary speculations, made out several little dainties, which, passing from the convent to the luxuriant tables of the ‘‘ sons of darkness’’ and wor- shippers of Comus, did not lose the memento of their origin. These beignets souffles were, it appears, originally blown with the breath through a tube, by92 the fair “ cuisini4res,” and a preposterous idea at- tached itself to the operation. In this consists the mystery which our poet has delicately glanced ofif in the fable of Comus and the Vestal virgin. V. 212. Caseus. « Fromage.” Cheese. It is worthy of remark that, although very dissimilar in themselves, these names should have sprung from the same origin j namely, the case ot form in which this concretion of milk has been from time immemorial con- fined to obtain a shape. Casa begat caseus, caseus be- gat cheese, and/oma, “fromage.^’ The learned Grotius is quoted j Forma formaginem vocai. (Cours Gas- tronomique.) Cheeses are mentioned in holy writ, under the plural name Sheboth, 2 Sam. xvii. 29 j and the singular Ghebinah, Job, x. 10. Considering the root of these words, it appears that cheeses were then spherical like the Dutch ones in our days; since Ghebinah is analogous to gibbosus, and Sheboth to eminens, a round or pyramidal shape. Aristasus, son of Apollo and of the nymph Cyrene, the same whom Virgil made the hero of his most beautiful episode at the end of the Georgies, is supposed to have been, among the Greeks, the inventor of this food. (Apollodorus. Justinus.) The Romans used to smoke their cheese as we do herrings and hams. They had public fumi- gatories for the purpose, Tabernce casearice. (Ulpian.) The Athenians fed their pugilists with it; and it was a military “ ammunition de bouche” with the Jews, the Greeks, and the Romans. Parmesan cheese, used in soups, macaroni, and several other dishes.93 owes, it is said, its good quality and flavour to the manure bestowed upon the meadows from which it originates; and this manure consists of decayed bones of all sorts of animals. Old cheese is reckoned so powerful a digestive, that a small quantity intro- duced in the shell of an oyster will soon dissolve the fish. Our poet mentions only two sorts of cheese, Cheshire and Gloucester: Stilton holds certainly the first rank. A nomenclature of all the dififerent kinds of cheese in common use on the continent would fill up too many pages ; and, unless a description of each were annexed, would prove useless to the reader. V. 215. Maturos elige fructus. Fruit is whole- some when mature, but of a dangerous use when un- ripe or decaying. The poet names only four species of fruit, probably because the original bill of fare did not contain any more j yet he might have negatively noticed the cherry^ from the garden of Mithridates; the peach from Persia, and its lovely bastard the wec- tarine / the orange, or golden apple of the Hes- perides; the pear, from the Epirean orchards of Pyrrhus; quinces from Cydon j plums brought by the crusaders from Damascus; the apple, so fatal once to mankind; and the pride of America, the delightful ananas of Surinam. V. 216. Castanex. “ Chataignes.” Chestnuts. This kernel is of a most important use in several parts of the continent, where the lower class of the people daily feed upon this farinaceous and wholesome vege- table. They were known to the Hebrews under the name of Harmon, Gen. xxx. 37; to the Greeks by the94 appellation ofxa^xvov, casianon, from which the Latin castmiea ; English, chestnut; and French, chataigne. According to heathen records, they were first noticed at Sardes in Lydia. Castanece molles, Virgil. They are eaten either boiled or roasted, and both ways very palatable. ^ ^ V. 216.^ Nuces. “ Noix.” Walnuts. This ex- cellent fruit originated, according to some authors, in the sunny vales of Persia. Nuts were strewed an- ciently in all the avenues leading to the nuptial apart- ment ; and the ceremony of strewing the nuts, nuces spargere, was the conclusion of the wedding-day. Nuts are very useful under different points of vieAv; the threefold advantage which they possess, of giving light, warmth, and food, has been combined by our author in the following distich : Nux vigilal, recreat, nutrit, prelo, igne, manuque', Pressa, perusta, crepans, luce, calore, cibo. Ovid in his poem entitled Nux, has taken notice of the various insults which the walnut-tree receives at the hands of travellers on the high-way; and Boileau says, Ep, vi. speaking of the river “ Seine ” : Tous ses bords sont converts de saules non plant^s, Et de noyers souvent du passant insult^s. A bass-relief, on the south-west side of the cathe- dral of Amiens, representing two figures, who seem busy about the contents of a sack or bag full of what may be taken for walnuts, attaches itself to the fol- lowing anecdote ; but appears of a date anterior to the sixteenth century.95 This town was taken by surprise, when Fer- nand Telles besieged it in 1597, owing to the stra- tagem of of a few Spanish soldiers, who, disguised in a plain country-dress, drove, early in the morning, a cart loaded with sacks full of walnuts. The gates were unsuspiciously opened by the sentinels; two or three of the bags bursting, as if accidentally, the ground was strewed with the fruit. The guards fell to directly, picking and scrambling, whilst a body of troops who were in ambush under the ramparts, rushed impetuously, overcame the sentinels, and made themselves masters of the town. Henry IV. soon retook it from the Spaniards. V. 217. Racemos. “ Raisins.'’ Grapes. This fruit is far from being common in England, but the vine is more cultivated now than it was thirty years since. Grapes seldom made their appearance on the “ table d’hote.” The shrub which produces them was planted in Syria soon after the flood by Noah, who was not the inventor, but the restorer, of the art of making wine, which must have been known to the antediluvian patriarchs, since it does not appear from the text of the Bible that the vegetable kingdom was included in the diluvian anathema. V. 218. Malus aprica. “ Abricots.” Apricots. Nature, it seems, had plenty of aromatic sweets to dispose of, when her plastic hands formed the gol- den and nearly-spherical fruit of the apricot-tree, and she profusely lavished them in the composition of this delightful tenant of the sunny wall. Jellies “ mannelades,” and “ compotes d’abricots,” are9G too well known to need a description in these notes. The name originates in the particular situation which this tree generally prefers ; that is the “ espalier,” or a wall exposed to the heat of the meridian sun. ^pri- cus, Lat. Avhich means the same, is often applied to other sorts of fruit ; and even to old men, Jprici senes, who delight in sitting and prattling on benches exposed to the reviving warmth of the god of light. This fruit-tree, it appears by the records of ancient authors, was first eminently cultivated in Armenia, since it is called Armeniacum malum, in contradis- tinction to malum Persicum, the above-mentioned Persian apple, the peach, which, in this appellation, preserves still a faint and nearly-evanescent memento ©fits birth-place. These valuable trees, in warmer climates, do not always require the friendly protection of the sheltering wall. I’hey stand insulated in the vineyard or orchard, swinging gently in the breeze, and produce an excellent, though smaller, fruit, which the French call “ peches de vignb,” and “ abricots en-plein-vent.” The notes might have been protracted much farther, but the commentators yielded to the wise maxim laid down by Horace, Serra. Lib I. Sat. i. v, 106. There is a true proportion in all things. Esl modus in rebus.APPENDIX. WINE. Fina hihant homines, animalia ccttera fantes. The Latin poem and the English notes have for their immediate object the substance or body of an enter- tainment; but wine is the soul of the repast. Instead of treating the Gastronomer with deeply-learned dis- sertations, we intend merely to record a few ideas as they occur, and carry along with them some instruc tion and an accidental zest of amusement. Etymology. It may be interesting previously to observe that the word's, wine, Engl, wein, Germ, vin, Fr. T'tnum, Lat. and olvos, Gr. claim their common origin from p, iin, Hebr. the first Jod being, on account of rpnpfifmn ^ _ V, ou, or w, making vin, repetition, pronounced as v ouin, or win. Wine is mentioned for the first time in the Bible, Gen. ix. 21. Noah makes too free with It, and IS derided by one of his sons. Soon after we find wine doing mischief again between Lot and his daughters, Gen. xix, 34. But, Psalm, civ. 5, the inspired Lyric declares that it maketh glad the heart of man; ” and this eulogium has never been con- tradicted, as far as wine is drunk with relative mo- derationj yet, when taken to excess, this gladness of heart suddenly turns into madness of mind. If from Holy Writ we turn our eyes towards the of H^then writers, it will appear doubtful whether the Golden Age did ever know this “ heart- cheering” juice. They speak of streams of milk, of nectar, and even of wine, but not a word about cultivated grapes; from which circumstance, and other inductions, we may fairly conclude that the birth ol the god of wine was coetaneous with that of the god of war. o98 They also tell us that the vine-tree was brought from Persia to the Phoenicians, who took it to Greece^ Sicily, and Italy; and Plutarch states that from Etruria it was carried to the Gauls. Laying aside the records of fabulous ages, the expedition of Bacchus to the Ganges, the tragic death of the abstemious Pentheus, and other stories more amusing than true, we can safely assert, for we really believe, that in Greece, wine was known before the Trojan war, and even more than 1500 years before the Christian era. In the 9th book of the Odyssey we find that long before Homer’s time, a distinction had already been established between good and bad wine; since, when the crafty Ulysses presents the intoxicating cup to Polyphemus, the gourmet-like Cyclop evinces directly his discriminating sense of taste : he says, as follows in the literal translation of this passage, by our poet:— Arripit ille scyphum, spumanlemque impiger haurit, El caplus guslu repelilos poslulat haustus : Amplius, ah ! vini, precor amplius adde propinans Ut miki tu qui sts narranlem promplus amicutn Hospilio excipiatn. Sunt el Cyclupihus arva, Arva racemiferas ultrh gignenlia vites, Quas Jovis (Bstivus calefactas concoquit imher', Ast id ah Amhrosid el ccelesli Nectare manat, (a) Hesiod, in the 2d book of his Works and Days” shews that the cultivation of the vine-tree was well known in his time; for he gives directions about the vintage and advises Perse in the following words: Orion now, and Sirius, adorn The midnighl sky—now rosy-finger’d morn Spies bright Arcturus rising from the deep : Cull then, bring home your ripen’d grapes—and keep Them full expos’d ten long days to the sun. Wine was deservedly praised by all nations. Vir- gil made the cultivation of the grape the subject of part of his Georgies, B. II, and, from Anacreon to (a) See Pope’s Translation.99 our contemporaries, it became the theme of the Poet’s song, and the shrub which produces it, the object of the cares and protection of princes and monarchs.(a) “ Domitian, that monster who,” says a Gastrographer, “ ought to have been immolated, on the altar of Bacchus, ordered all the vineyards in Gallia to be rooted up; but the Emperor Probus, much deserving of that name, ordered them to be re-planted.” In 1175, the Duke of Acquitaine (afterwards Ri- chard I.) prohibited in Guyenne the stealing of a single bunch of grapes in a vineyard, under the penalty of five solidi, or the loss of one ear, if the fellow had any left.” (Cowel’s Interp.) Before, and even since, the introduction of Gas- coygne” wine into this island, vineyards were well- cultivated and thriving in several parts of the kingdom; for we find that a certain quantity of wine is ordered to be paid instead of rent to the (a) The presence of the Roman matrons does not seem to have ever been much courted to festival entertainments in republican ages. The severity of their looks, the auste- rity of their habits, their domestic avocations, unfitted them for scenes of jollity and merriment. In private, they hardly dared to sip a drop of wine j and Cato the ancient advised his friends to give a kiss to their wives, when they came home, in order to ascertain whether they had not in their absence tasted the temelum or strong wine. Pliny xiv. 13. Yet, the Censor himself was not averse to a cheerful bum- per. Hor. Car. III. Od. xxi. says l Narratur et prisci Catonis StEpe mero caluisse virtus. E’eu Cato’s virtue, we are told. When age had made him weak and cold. Often glow’d with gen’rous wine. La vertu du vicux Caton, Chez les Remains taut pron£e, De Falerne, nous dit-on, Fut souvent cnlumin6e.—J. B. Rousseau.100 Bacch„a™^ .tfeoi S't" ,X‘ CLnotechi^; or, the art of making wine. It is alone dete?7^' fermentation water ^ e^renf • colourless as the dver « species, which is called S a D^nlp [ the liquor of which is ItiLs7l7! -K *^^^P mulberry. If the 7n.?”r^ **’ of red winl fs drawn L - 1 vineyard, The skTn tZ T ' Fi without the skm the seeds and the stalks which contain the colouring elements, the wine will certainly be white hr;i fc be red. If the fermentation of hZ u IS stopt in proper time, the wine titrr/fi brisk and sparkling, on account of the quan- y f fixed air Avhich is confined within itj if this air, a sort of gas, is permitted to evaporate, the wine becomes still and quiet; in this, with a few practical exceptions, consists the w hole mystery. Wines re- Z ^®®® "P^“ ^be casks, in order nrinP- 7i® f®' ®®“*^ ‘be bottom; and the art principally hes in the knowledge of the proper .me to bottle the wine. A thick crust doL nS always show that the wine is good, but often that it has been bottled too soon. White wines produce no ci ust; a proof that the grossest parts are lodged in the skin, seeds, and stalks, of the grapes. „ir V‘® of clarifying wine before it is bottled am-iZf"'®''n“ of whites of eggs, was known to the ancients. But Horace, though a practical gourmet^101 "vras not well acquainted with the theory of the art, for he mistakes, Sat. 2. 4. the yolk for the white, as used for this purpose. Nomenclature. Several authors of tried knowledge have, in other countries as well as in this, written scientific and interesting dissertations upon the wines of the ancients, to which we refer the Gastronomic reader, confining ourselves to the names of some of those which are particularly esteemed in our days. As to the product of the grapes, it cannot he denied that France has long borne the palm in the contest; and the wines of that fruitful kingdom may be classed under three principal heads. Burgundy, Champagne, and Languedoc, or Meridional wines, which may be also subdivided into three species, mousseux, tran- qinlle, and sucre; * brisk, still, and sweet. BOURGOGNE. GASCOGNE, &C, Avalons. Bergetac. Beaune. Bourdeaux. Chahlis, Cateau-Margot, Chamherlin. Claret, (c) Clos de Vougeol. Condrieux. Coulanges. Grave, (d) La Romance. Hermitage. Macon. Lafitte. Migrenne. Pontac. Nuits. (b) Pomard. CHAMPAGNE, At. Arhois. Eperna^. Haut-villiers. Langres. Montague de Rheims. (a) Ricey. Sillery. Tonnerre. Versenay. St. Per ay. Sautern. * Languidiora Hor. • produce of this famous Hill was exclu of France. Louis liaum from “ Clare turn, a dprnoi- ' ^ y “f honey, clarified bv ^cocuon, which the Germans, French, and English, call pp eras j and it is for this reason that the red°wines of France were called Claret.” Cowel’s Interp. ^ of ^Sscony. generally applied to the white wiues102 1652 a public 7%ej2s was held at the faculty of edicme, *« decide the mighty question whiclf of As fo'rtho « or Champagne.” &r de Gascogne, Bordeaux, Provence,” &c. the quantity which is exported has always been S according to Froissart, L early f ^ere annually and exclusively freighted with this commodity. ^ T’ ®"’^">-al“Vins de liqueurs” are im- ^rted from France,- as Qo^at; St. Laurent; Lunel; ^ &c. Spam, Portugal, and the island of Ma- the R us a considerable supply, and the banks of the S and the Moselle enliven, with their produce, the tables of the Gastronomers of all polite nations. Vari« Lectiones. gi»iirMs!- i" Qul se provolvit multis Acipenser'm umiis. «h“i to r,gi„“”“«“■ Codex MS. Dum murla obscurum condit amara jecur. Cligat Lector benevolus. ♦“INDEX TO THE NOTES AND APPENDIX. ....-mx-... A-Ia-mode beef, p. 56. Alliteration, 41. Amienr, 95. Amphibious animals, 70. Apicius,three brothers of that name, 13, 14. Apricots, 95. Asses, young, 34. Artichoke, 79. Asparagus, 78. Aviaries, 58. Ballio and the cook, 18. Barbecue, 51. Barbel, 69. Bats and Olives, 35. Beans, Windsor, 74; French, 77. Beef, buttock of, 31; cold, boiled, 55. Beet-root, 83. Black pudding, 54. Boars* head, 50. Bmins, 49. Bread, 44. Broth, 24. Bullock, 31. Butter, 31. Cabbage, origin, 24; etymology ,25; green and red, 24 ; twice eaten, death, 26, Cacus andHercules,51, Calf’s lights, 25; liver, 46. ' Callipash andcallipee, 29. Cardinal and clergy- man. 25. Carp, 74. Caviare, 73. Celery, 83. Charon’s fare, 49. Cheese, 92, Chestnuts, 93. Chicken, fricassee of, 42. Codfish, 64. Cooks, 17, 20, 47. Coguin, etymon of, 19. Cutlets, 48. Desbarreaux’s conver- sion, 85. DorlSe, John, 71. Duck, with turnips, 40; with onions, 41; eggs, 40. Eel, 69. Egg, symbol of the world, 87; br;jth, 23; eggs, 85; boiled in a sling, 86; en- graving upon, 88; fried, 89; poached, 88; roasted,86, man- ner of trying, 86. Esquimaus^ 35. Fish bones, 70; sauce, 73. Fontenelle, anecdote, 81. Fricandeau, 42. Fritters, 90. Frogs, 35. Fruit, 93. Gastrologer, 16. Gastronomer, ibid. Gastrophile, ibid. Glutton, 15. Goat, 38. Goose, 38, 39, 51. Gormand, 16. Gourmet, ibid. Gudgeon, 69. Grapes, 100. Hachis, 50. Ham, 51. Hampshire hog, 50. Hamster rats, 35, Hare, 57. Hazel.spits,. 32. Herring, 65. Hedgehogs, 35. Hen’s, 36; crowing, ibid; experiments upon, 37. Jacob and Esau, 82.Incubation, &5, 87. Kidneys, 54, King of Home, &4, Kingand queen, 75. Leeks, 21. Lentils, 82. Lobsters, 68. Mackerel, 65. Medea, 43, 4/. Mock turtle, 30. Moorcock, 55, Mullet, 69. M^cle, 67. Mustard, etymon, 66. Mutton-chops, 48. Napkin, 70. Napoleon, 84. on, 80. Omelet, 48, 85, Onion, 41. Ox, 33 ; palate, 47. Oysters, 15, 67. Parsley, 45. Partridge, 56. Pastry, 90. Peach, 96. Peacocks, 13, 87. Perch, 69, Pettitoes, 53. Pheasant, 55. Pig, 31. Pigeon, 69; wood pi- geon, 58; stewed, ibid j broiled, 59. Pike, 69. Pilau, 36, 70. Pistacchio, 25. Plaice, 64. Pork, 51. Porridge, 22. Potatoes, 84. Pottages, 29. Prawn, 68. Pudding, 54. Puffs, 91. Pullet, 35. Puppies, 35. Pye, 46. Quail, 58. Quin, 72. Rabbit, 62. Rein-deer, 35. Rice, 23, 90. Rolls, 45. Roman names, 75, Salmon, 63. Sheep, 49, 50, 54. Shrimp, 58. Sirloin, 33. Skate, 63. Sorrel, 41, Snipe, 61. Sturgeon, 73. Soup, 21, 24.28, Spinach, 83. Spoon, 89. Succory, 53. Sugar, 52. Sweet bread, 47. Tench, 69. Thrush, 58. Trifles, S9, Trout, 71. Truffles, 60. Turbot, 72, Turkeys, 59. Turnips, 40. Turtle, 29. VaTi(C Lecliones, 102. Veal, loinof,52; broth, 52^ cutlets,44} hash- ed, 49; stewed, 41, ‘Venison, 62. Vermicelli, 24, Vinegar, 81. VitelliuB, 62. Wag and countryman, 78. Walnuts, 94. Wheat, 44. Whiting, 63. Wine, 97; etymon, ibid; history, ibid; nomenclature, 101; art of making, 100; Thetis upon, 102. Woodcock, 61. FINIS. Rubins and Sons, Printers, 57, Tooley Street*- ^ Id Co-«/, Cu C-2>^ t99 { m