tDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21938775MILITARY MEDICAL AND SURGICAL ESSAYS PREPARED FOE THE Initt^y States Sanitarn Commission. 1862—1864. WASHmGTON, D. C. •1865.C'OjSTTElSrTS. hitrodiiftory. I'aiii ;uul Aiiu'stlieticr^. X'ALENTrNE MOTT, M. D. A. Militarv Ilv2,ieiu' and Tliei'apciitici^. Alit.hd C. Post, M. D. W. ir. Van Bi-UEN, M. [). V>. Difcction^^ to Snro-coiis on tlio Field of Battle. G. J. Guthrie, F. R. S. C. Hides ibr Prcrfefvinii' the Health of the Soldier. W. 11. Van Buken, M. D. 1). (Quinine as a Pi'0})livlactic. W. ir. Van Bur en, M. D. K. Yaceination iu Ai-niies. F. G. Smith, M. D. Ar,ERED Stille, M. D. F. Amputations D. L). Slade, iNI. D. (t. Amputations—Foot and Ankle Joint. Stephen Smith, M. D. II. Venereal Diseases F. J. Bumstead, M. D. J. Pneumonia Austin Flint, M. D. K. Continued Fevers J. Baxter Upiiam, M. D. L. Excision of Joints R. M. Hodges, M. D. M. Dysentor}^ Alfred Stille, M. D. X. Scurvy Wm. A. Hammond, M. D. O. Fractures in Military Suricery. John H. Packard, M. D. P. Miasmatic Fevers John T. Metcalfe, M. D. Q. Yellow Fever John T. Metcalfe, M. D. R. Hemorrhao-e from Wounds. A'alentine Mott, M. D. S. Infectious Diseases Emsha Harris, M. D. T. Plaster of Pans Splints... ..James H. Little, M. D.PAIN AND ANiESTHETICS: AN ESSAY, INTROnUCTOKY TO A SERIES OF SURGICAL AND MEDICAL MONOGRAPHS, BY VALENTINE MOTT, M. D. PREPARED BY REQUEST OP THE SANITARY COMMISSION SECOND EDITION. U ' Q I L I. WASHINGTON: i, WITUEKOW, PR INTERS. 18^8.0 Office Sanitary Commission, Washmjion, April 15, 1862. Tlie attention of the Sanitary Commission has been called to the fact that most of onr Army Surgeons now in the field are unavoidably deprived of many facilities they have here- tofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution, among the medical officers of the army, of a series of briel essays, or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to sui'geons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession. The following paper on "Pain and AniESthetics" is contributed as an introductory essay to the series, by the veteran chief of American surgery, Valentine Mott. FRED. LAW OLMSTED, Gen'I, f^ccrciary.E S S A. Y . Among tlie many improvements wliicli characterize mod- ern surger}^, one of the most invaluable is the introduction of Anesthetics. That we should be enabled safely and con- veniently to place the human system in such a state, that the most painful operations may be performed without conscious- ness, is to have secured to man immunity from what he most dreads ; for most men fear pain even more than death. When seeking death by suicide, the instinctive aversion to pain is apt to govern in the choice of means, and the person generally selects the method which h^rnagines will inflict upon him the least suffering. '^ Pain humbles the proudest and subdues the strongest. It was the great agent of the Spanish inquisition, because it was more effective to extort confession than death itself. - It was pain that made Caesar weep, and I have seen the most heroic and stout-hearted men slied tears like a child, when enduring the anguish of neui-algia. As in a powerful engine when the director turns some little key, and the monster is at once aroused, and plunge^^ along the pathway, screaming and breathing forth flames in the majesty of his power, so the hero of a hundred bullies, if [lerchance a filament of nerve is compressed, is seized with spasms, and struggles to escape the unendurable agony. We have then this, the first reason for the use of auieslheties:— To p-event j)omi is humane. No genlleman, not to say6 Christian, would needlessly inflict pain on any creature. It was, indeed, a certain kind of humanity wliich led the Athenians to execute Socrates ^by means of a narcotic draught, and which also made the Romans give their male- factors, during crucifixion, drugged wine. Even the guillo- tine had its conception in a kind of humane sentiment. Only savages inflict upon their victims the horrors of tor- ture. And I do not believe that there is a surgeon of the nineteenth century who would willingly inflict any unneces- sary pain in his operations if once practically acquainted with the means of prevention, and once confident and facile in their use. But, secondly: Pain is vselcss to the ixdned. So Galen said centuries ago, and so the late 'discussions of the ques- tion of anresthesia have abundantly proved ; and if any meav bers of the medical profession still entertain the idea that pain may have sonc|J| occult, jiiysterious use, with which it would be dangerous to dispense, we must remember that the general sentiment of our profession, together with the common sense of mankind, is now unquestionably far in the advance. , The torment of tooth-ache and the griping of colic confer no benefit on the sufferers; and all experience proves that the step proper to be taken first in the cure of these dis- eases is to relieve the pain. "When the pain produced by a surgical operation, or any other injury, is excessive, the exhaustion is greatei-, reac- tion comes on more slowly, the subsequent process of resto- ration is delayed, and the tendency to depression is increased. The practice of applying irritating applications and stimu- lating plasters to phlegmons has long been confined to the ignorant—the educated surgeon preferring soothing;7 poultices aiKl sedative lotions. But tins reason may be made stronger; since Pmn is positkcltj fnjiirious to the pained. If sufficiently acute and long-continued, it will of itself produce death. The collapse which follows severe injuries, where there is little loss of blood, is to be attributed entirely to pain. When death occurs in such cases without reaction, it is the direct eflcct of pain. Ambrose Pare, the father of modern surgery, in speaking of pain, says, "nothing so much dejects the powers of the patient." Gooch says, "mere pain can destroy the powers of life." My friend, Mr. Travers, observes, "pain, when amounting to a certain degree of intensity and duration, is of itself destructive." And I myself, like every other sur- geon, in active practice, am continually witnessing injuries where death results solely from the nervous shock. ■ In corroboration of this -fact, we may notice, cn jxfmmt, the Statistics of Amputations, collected by Professor Simp- son, of Edinburgh. It is not necessary to quote them at length, but they come, by numeric process, to this^ conclu- sion—that in all serious surgical operations the prevention of pain, by the use of anaisthetics, gives to the patient not only present relief, but also a better prospect of subsequent recovery—the mortality in such cases being clcarl}^ lessened by the use of anaesthetics. We see, then, that pain has the etiect, primarily and directly, to depress the powers of life. If we inquire into the cause of this, we shall find it in the physiological law, that the nervous s)/stei)i conlvoh the vascular, and tlie collapse which attends severe injuries has its origin in the nervous system. Collapse is a provision for defending the nervous centres from an intolerable assault, «8 and in this way does nature herself in a manner dictate the use of anaesthetics. It was prohahly in supposed obedience to this indication that John Hunter, .great and ingetiious even in his errors, advocated amputation hefore reaction had occurred. He meant to avoid the nervous shock. In collapse, the return of nervous energy precedes the res- toration of the circulation ; and, admitting all that is claimed for the chemical origin of the forces which produce the cir- culation of the blood, we must still allow that the current is controlled and directed by nervous influence. The most severe operation during anaesthesia produces little or no effect upon the pulse, because the nervous centres receive little or no imj^ression "Whatever, then, may be the ph3'siological necessit}" for pain, though its uses in the animal econoni}^ ma}' he to pre- vent lesion and deter from dans-er, we are here to view the question merely in a therapeutic light, and to conclude that pain is only evil, and that continually. And now, how shall it he prevented ? Obviously by any means which will yno- duce a less injurious effect. We are not required to possess an absolutely innocuous agent; if the injurious effect of the means used be less than that of the pain prevented, we are justified in employing them. If we examine these doctrines carefully, wc shall find that they are in fact not essentially new. The principles on which they are founded have been long recognised m (he use of vairi)ii(:<^. I was in the habit of giving opiates freely before the introduction of anassthetics, both l)efore and after operations; and now, after over fiTty years of experience, I still retain them in my confidence, for their power to relieve pain after operations, thus iniproving the condition of the patient, and i'avoral)ly modiiying the subsequent intlamma-9 tion. In the treatment of certain pninfiil aff'octionf!, sneli as puerpoi'al fever or peritonitis, o[)inm is well known not only to be [jalliative, but directly cnraHve. Ricliter called it "the gi-and antipldogistic r.emed}'." It has always been used more freely by surgeons in tliis country than in Europe, and to tliis cause I attribute, in great measure, our lesser subsequent mortality. A nd opium aud its preparations are the oidy anodynes well adapted to surgical use. Ko substitutes are worthy of contldcnce. Wlien chloroform or fether is to be used, it is not advisable to give au oi)iate previous to the operation, as to do so woidd increase the tendency to saibscqucnt vomiting, which ever}' experienced surgeon is anxious to avoid. A\'^lien the system is laboi-ing under tlie sliock of any ncwly-i'eceived aud severe injiuy, tlie powers of life are in abeyance, and the act of I'ctching tends to an unfortunate issue. In col- lapse, if the patient vomit, he is apt to die. In cases of hare lij), however, aud in operations about the mouth ami jaws and nose, we are fre(picntly comitelled to depend, as formerly, upon narcotics for preventing or miti- gating the pain, as the locality renders inhalation imprac- ticable. After o[)ei"ations, opiates are to be used, without much reference to fpumtity in propoi'tion to the severity of the pain. The only injurious effect of their too free exhibition would be al'ter s<ime hours a little irritability of the stoniach. Tl leir constijiating tendency in such cases is of no thei'a- pcntic importance, aud would in no degree increase the subsequent local inliamnuttion. Ali-oliiihc sllnnihiil.s are also well known to cxei'cise a limited ana'sllictie power. Men in a condition of complete inloxi- cation are somelikues unconscious of the injui'ies they receive,10 and formerly some surgeons were In the lialjit of benumbing the sensibility of the patient, and sometimes I fear their own, by copious draughts of spirituous liquors. But this practice can, at best, produce Ljut very imperfect anfesthesia, and intoxicating drinks afe than opium still more apt to disturb the stomach. I well remember a case of amputation of the thigh which occurred a few years since in my own practice, where the attending physician, notwithstanding repeated cautions, administered brandy to the patient so freely as to induce vomiting, thus interfering with the con- tinuance of the reaction, and inducing a fatal result. It was au extensive cannon shot of the knee joint, and on the third day from the injury,_ before the collapse had sufficiently passed off. But opium and alcohol have been referred to, rather as illustrations of the truth of the principles of anrestliesia than as practicable ancesthetic agents. To produce any considerable insensibility with them would require their use in quantities and for a length of time that could not fail to be seriouslj- injurious to the nervous system. Bays would be required to recover from their narcotic effect. Hence it is, that such agents are of little account when compared with inhalations. The great extent of the pulmonary surface, and the facility with which a!riforra agents may be introduced through it into the circulation—their complete efficiency and their ready evacuation by respiration—conclusively indicate that the lungs, instead of the stomach, is the best route through which to introduce the proper agents for inducing insensibilty. Now, the question arises, can these advantages be secured without danger to the patient? And sufficient time has already' elapsed to enal)le us to reply: AjiivsthclicSy when properly used, are pcrfedbj safe. >11 At the period of my last visit to Europe, some ten years since, t*rofessor Simpson bad then given cliloroforni to over 8,000 persons without a single fatal result from its use, and by this time be has, no doubt, more than duplicated that experience. In the Crimean war, it was used commonly and freely. Baudens speaks of several thousand cases in which it bad been used without accident, and McLeod reports over 20,000 eases, with only a single fatality. Even when ignorantly and carelessly employed, there is less dan- ger than is commonly apprehended. Wlj^en last in Paris, I saw it used continually, and freely, and carelessly, \vith little precaution to dilute the vapor, and by rude means—a sort of bag tied over the mouth and^nose of tlie patient,— yet beard of no case of asphyxia from its use. Both chloro- form and ii'ther are contiiuniUy emploj'ed in this city, in the hospitals and public institutions, Us well as in private prac- tice, with* little or no regard to either the quantity or intensity of tlie vapor, and yet but very few accidents have occurred. In my own practice, I have never seen a death from their use. But there is another reason for employing anfestbetics which must not be forgotten. The insermbiUtij of the patient is a great convenience to the suir/eoii. How often, when operating in some deep, dark wound, along the course of some great vein, with thin v.-alls, alter- nately distended and flaccid with tlie vital current—bow often have I dreaded that some unfortunate struggle of the patient would deviate the knife a little from its proper course, and that I, who l^iin would be the deliverer, sliould involuntarily become the executioner, seeing my patient pen.sb in my hands by the most appalling form of death 1 Had he been insensible, I should have felt no alarm.12 By tlio use of anrestlietics, also, the shrieks and cries of the piitieiit are prevented; so tliat tlie snrgeon's powers are not additionally taxed, either to nerve himself to a very uniilensniit task, or to control and encourage the attendants. This discovery, then, has not only taken from surgery its greatest liorrors, but it has also very much increased tlie facility nnd safety of operations; and in this way the, domain of surf/crt/ is cxtcrided. In the removal of tumors with inti'icate surgical relations, the operator iio\V'feels at liberty to take the amount of time required for careful and slow dissection. lie performs pain- ful operations on children with little or no fear of subsequeut convulsions, and the nervous and timid are so protected from tilt! shock that he is free to assert the dominion of the knife wherever science has decreed and the powers of the human (^institution will allow. But it is tlie object of this paper not oidy to show the propi'iety of inducing insensibility to pain, but also to give some plain and practical Directions for the use of Ancesthcfics. Of these agents, only two—asther and chloroform—are as yet worthy of consideration; and of these I have always preferred chloroform, for the reason that it is more etlective. ^iher has been supposed to be safer in the hands of the inex|u:iieiu'ed, but this is clearly no reason why the prac- ticed sui'gcou should conline himself to the weaker and luova inconvenient agent. yEther is longer in juHHlucing ames- thesia, is more bulky, and in some cases fiils to [U'oiliice the desired elfect. I am in the habit, howevei', of employing both, cH)min()nly commencing with a'ther, and resmliiig to chh^rolbrm if insensibility is not readily induced.13 It is heller to employ no special apparatus for inhalation. All that is needed is a common lineu liuudkerchief, on which the licjuid is poured. This should be held loosely ia the hands of the operator, as in the folded condition it might interfere too much with respiration. If xthev is used, little attention is paid to quantity—from two to four ounces being commonly required for an adult; and all the caution neces- sary is not to exhibit it so rapidly as to excite a cotTgh. If chloroform is employed, less quantity will be required—from one to four drachms being generally sufficient. But care must be taken to dilute the vapor sufficiently with atmos- pheric air. Darbiij the inhalation the ixdicnt should always be in a rcciuubeid position. We must remember that the vapor of chloroform is exceedingly heavy, having a speciiic gi-avity more than four times that of common air, with little dis- position to diffuse itself. Carbonic acid, whicli weighs only one and a half times more than common air, nmy l)e poured from one vessel into another like water. By i-ea.ion, then, of its great gravity, the vapor of chloroform pas.scs into the kings more j'cadily when inhaled in the recumhem posiure; audit for any reason we should desire to free the lungs speedily, fi'om its presence, we can do so with most facility •when the i)atient is in the same position. Tlic circiiliition of the blood through the lungs is now known to depend on the reaction of its carbonizud constitu- ents with the oxygen of the air; and in those cases where death has occurred during inhalation, this result is to be attributed rather to the absence of oxygen in the lungs than to the presence of chloroform in the blood. We niay presume that anresthctic vapors are not poisonous of thciuselvcs, ljut when ignorautly or carelessly used theyarrest the circulation in the capillaries of the lungs, as nitrogen or hydrogen would do by exclusion of the necessary oxygen. Hence, in case of asphyxia from their use, where the natural process of respiration is interrupted, we endea- vor to substitute it by artificial means. We open the win- dows to procure fresh air, dash cold water in the face to excite convulsive i-espiratory movements, turn the patient on his side to lessen the gravitative tendency of the vapor, and make artificial respiration by compressing the ribs after the manner of Dr. Marshall Hall. And when the vapor is sufiSciently displaced from the lungs by admixture with atmospheric air, circulation and respiration will both be restored. For these reasous, it was, that Mv. McLeod, in the Crimea, always preferred to use chloroform in the open air. We see, then, that to exhibit anrcsthetic vapors too rapidly is to incur the danr/cr of asph'jxia; hut, on the other haiid, to exhibit them too slowly incommodes the surgeon and pro- longs inconveniently the stage of excitement; and a greater quantity of the an?esthetic" will also be required, and spas- modic action of the glottis is more likely to occur. Professor Simpson speaks of one or two minutes as being the proper time to allow for the induction of insensibility, but in this country it is customary to take a lono-fer time, perhaps from three to five minutes. The full effect of the anfcsthetie is indicated by sonorous or even stertorous breathing, which, though apparently serious, is of no importance. The pulse is generally but little affected, though it is ol'ten diminished somewhat in frequency and force, and yet I have seen it, when the vapor was being administered too rapidly, suddenly stop, to re- sume its ordinary motion when the effect of the vapor passed off.15 There is another practical fact in regard to the nse of In* halations which I do not remember to have noticed. If the patient mmit, the effect huriicdiaieti/ passes off, and, as he is mnch more likely to vomit when the stomach is full, he should not be allowed food for some hours previous to inhalation. In operations where the mouth becomes filled with blood, I was formerly ap]5rehensive of strangling, Imt subseqaent observation shows that during anaesthesia, deglntitiofi takes place by means of reflex nervous action, in the same manner that uterine contractions occur, notwithstanding the use ot" these ao;ents. Within the last year, Professor Simpson, of Edinburgh, has recommended a new plan for securing the admixture of the proper quantity of air. It consists in spretiding a handker- chief single-fold over the face of the patient, and allowing the .liquid to fall drop by drop upon it near the mouth and nose. The quantity of the liquid required by this method is said to be less than what is ordinarily used, but from my experience I should apprehend irritation of the skin, as this is apt to occur in usii}g chloroform and sether by the ordi- nary method. To prevent this irritation I am in the habit of applying previous to inhalation a little olive oil about the mouth and nostrils. Care should also be taken to prevent the vapor from acting on the eyes. In my own practice I have been in tlie habit of using the Scotch chloroform of Duncan, Flockhart & Co., of Edinburgh, but have also employed that of Dr. Squibb, of Brooklyn, and with pleasure commend the latter for its purity and reliability. For such reasons, then, as have been recounted, I desire to direct the attention of the Surgeons of the Army and N"avy to the advantages which would accrue from a more16 extended use of finjie.'=thetics in naval and military practice. I am satisfied tlint if, in their operations, tlie pain were more generally prevented many lives would be saved wliieh are now lost from the sliock to the nervous system, and tliat, in all severe cases, the prospect of recovery is better and the subsecpieiit iutlammatiou is milder wlieii an anaesthetic has been used. * To tkis conclusion T have not come hastily. Of so much import have I always regarded the prevention of the pain of ppei-ations, and so desirable, if it could be practically effected, that ten years before the introduction of ant^sthetic vapor I listened patiently and attentively to the claims of animal magnetism to this power to produce insensibility; but found, and I may say with unalloyed regret, that when fairly brought to the test, its most ardent friends were compelled to admit its utter inefficiency, and even since the inventii)n of anes- thetic inhalation, I have carefully tested the power of other agents, such as nitrous oxyde, to produce insensibility to pain, but still consider none of them deserving of mentioa when compared with chloroform or tether. In conclusion, perhaps I may say, that these observations and rellections have been made during the intervals taken from a business still pressing, at a time of life when most men desire rep(^se. They are given to the cause of American nationality, and may claim to be at least an old surgeon's offering on the altar of his country. The ^lag of our Union, the glorious Stars and Stripes, has repeatedly protected me in foreign lands l)eneath its broad folds, and if what I have ■written here shall be in any measure successful in prevent- ing the sufferings and prolonging the lives of that noble army who are now serving under m^' country's banner, I shall receive my reward.THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. A. REPORT ON MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MILITARY SURGERy TO THE SURGICAL SECTION OF THE NEW YORK ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. FOURTH EDITION. PRINTED FOR CIRCULATION BY ^ THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. 18(35.The attention of The United States Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach any thing that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff; of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has as.signed the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " Military Hygiene and Therapeutics" belongs to this series, and is resjjectfully recommended by tlie Commission to the medical officers of our army now in the field. Feed. La.w Olmsted, Washikgton, June 21, 18G1. Secretary.MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. Your Committee begs leave respectfully to report that it has directed its attention chiefly to matters of practical interest which are not discussed in the ordinary bonks on surgery. The duties of a military sui'geon involve a higlt degree of re- sponsibility, and upon their skilful and faithful performance, the efiiciency and success of armies is largely dependent. The ancient poet took a correct but altogether too limited view of the usefulness of military surgeons, when he uttered the sentiment— " A wise physician, skilled our wounds to heal, Is more than armies to the public weal." The principal duties of the medical staflF of the army are comprehended in the two classes of military hygiene and mili- tary therapeutics. The former of these two classes, although it attracts much less popular attention than the latter, is by no means inferior to it in practical importance. The statistics of armies clearly reveal the fact, that a much larger number of soldiers die from disease, resulting from unfavorable hygienic circuinstauces, than from wounds inflicted in battle. Even tlie dreadtul slaughter of AVaterloo and Solferino has been exceeded 111 Its desolating power by the pestilential diseases by which large armies have sometimes been invaded. A few examples Will suffice to show the extent to which armies have beenMILITARY HYGIENE AND THKHAPEUTICS. 6 scourged by disease. Sir David Stewart mentions " that the 9yd refflment lost more officers and men in four months from the climate of Jamaica, than by the hand of the enemy in an active Avar of 22 years, in the progress of which it was 2G tim-.'.s in battle." Sir James McGrigor, in his account of the di.-- eases of the Peninsular army in IS 12, 1813, and a part of 1S14, says "that there were 68,891: cases of fever, of which 6,703 died, equal to 9.7 per cent.; and 7,526 cases of dysentery, of which 4,717 died, equal to 62.5 per cent." Sir John Pringle says, " that of the troops stationed, during 1847, in South Bevi- land and the Island of Walcheren, some of the corps were so sickly as not to have more than one hundred men fit for duty, which w^as less than the seventh part of a complete battalion." In a paper by Mr. Edmonds, compiled from returns in the Adjutant-general's Office, it is stated that "in the Peninsular army, averaging a strength of 64,227, including officers and men. the annual ratio of mortality, from the 25th December, 1810, to 25th of May, 1S13, was 10 per cent, of the officers, and 16 per cent, of the men, and that this army had during the above period 22^ per cent, constantly sick." In the report of the Brit- ish Sanitary Connnission dispatched to the seat of war in the East, in 1856, it is stated that " on the week ending April 7th, the sick and wounded amounted to 124 in every thousand, or nearly an eighth part of the army. The wounded were only five per cent, of this proportion. The force amounted to 31,610 men." After the attack on the Eedan, the wounds amounted to 40 per cent, of the admissions, the remaining 60 per cent, being sick. During ten weeks, the admissions from wounds amounted to 3,858, or ten per cent, of the force ; and the deaths from wounds to 334=0.37 per cent, of the force. During the same period, the admissions for disease amounted to 18,683 = 48.7 per cent, of the force, and deaths from disease to 1,309=3.04 per cent, of the force, or at the rate of 17.6 per cent, per annum. Only 17 per cent, of the total admissions, and 20 per cent, of the total deaths, were due to wounds exclusive of deaths on the field. Bazaneourt, in his account of the Expedition to the Crimea, speaking of the operations in the Doln-udscha, says that "General Yusuf had resolved bv aMILITARY HYGIENE-AND THERAPEUTICS. 7 night march to fall snddcnlj upon the body of troops assem- bled around Babadagh, but at the moment when (at about 0 o'clock iu the evening) the oi-der for departure was given, 500 men lay stretched upon the earth unable to rise: the cholera had fallen like a thunder-bolt upon the expeditionary column. At 8 o'clock, there were already 15(» dead, and 350 dying." The pestilence continued its ravages, and the expedition to the Dobrudscha was consequently given up. The whole number of officers and men sent to the East by tlie French government, during the period of two years, was 309,268. Of this number 200,000 were under treatment at the ambulances and hospitals ; viz., 50,000 for wounds, and 150,000 for diseases. The medical officers of the French army ar- ranged their plans for taking care of their sick and w^ounded. on the basis of the calculation that 10 per cent, would be un- der treatment at one time. So, at the period when the number of their troops was limited to 40,000, tliey made provision for 4,000 to 5,000 patients. In the attacks of cholera during the Dobrudscha expedition the proportion of deaths to attacks was as 1 to l^V More than 8,000 French soldiers were placed hors du comhat by the cholera in the epidemic of Yarna and Dobrudscha. At the end of February of the first winter in the Crimea, there were 3,000 cases of scurvy in the French army, averaging 100 for each old regiment, and 25 for each new^ one. At the same period the wounds presented an un- healthy appearance, the granulations were flabby, traumatic gangrene was frequently observed. In the month of June, 1855, there were 4,000 cases of cholera, and more than six thousand wounds. The medical officers suffered greatly in health from their incessant and exhausting labors, about one- third of their number being sick. After the battle of Traktir Bridge, in August, 1S55, the French surgeons performed 300 amputations and resections. A number of them were obliged to walk a great distance to the field of action ; they were occu- pied with dressing wounds nearly the whole day, exposed to the heat of the sun, and tlien returned in tlie afternoon to the stationary ambulances, to ])erform urgent ()[)erations, wbich were not completed before midnight. The Malakofii" was taken8 MILITARY HYGIKNE AND THERAPEUTIC?. ill September, 1855, after 31G days of hard work and figlitiiig in the trendies. A million of sand-bags and 80,000 gabions had been eni])lo_yed. There had been 600,000 diseharges of cannon and mortars. Twenty leagnes of trenches had l)een opened. After the taking of the Malakoff, the French sur- geons had the care of 5,000 wounded joersons, including many of the Russians. The whole number of patients under treat- ment at that time in the French ambulances was 10,520. In one division, three surgeons and one apothecary liad the entire care of 900 patients. The number of the wounded after the battle of the Tchernaia was 2,47'1-; viz., 810 French and 1,664 Russians, coming under the care of the French surgeons. Typhus fever broke out in the French army in December, 1855 ; in that month there were 734 cases. In January there were 1,523 cases. During the two months. 787 cases termi- nated fatally. In February there were 3,402 cases, of which 1,435 were fatal. The disease attacked large numbers of per- sons who had been previously sick with other diseases. Every other disease seemed to be transformed into this terrible scourge. Seventy-five French surgeons in the Crimea were sick with typhus, and thirty-one died of it. Scrive says that " the losses occasioned by the most murderous battles do not equal one-fourth of the total losses to which an army is ordi- narily subjected." Scrive, in reporting the sanitary condition of the army in February, 1856, makes the following remarks: "The regiments were not all attacked in the same degree. The pro])ortion of the sick bears a close relation to the energy of the exciting causes. Thus, but few patients were found in the 17th battalion of chasseurs—-10 out of 450 men. This battalion is comfortably quartered in bari-acks of good elevation ; the grcmnd is carefully paved ; each soldier has a hcd raised thirty centimetres, or about twelve inches, from the ground. Per- fect cleaidiness is observed throughout. The sea of mud (jf the adjoining streets is replaced by a stone i)avement. Great care is taken as to diet, and vegetables are never wanting. The chasseurs are a chosen body of robust and intelliffcnt men, and tlie site of their cncMniiimciit is a very healthy one. The b.'ith regiment is tlie worst tivated oi'all; it counts about 200 jia-MILITARY HYGIENE AND TH KRAPEUTICS. 9 tieiits, waiting until places can be found for them in tlic hospitals. This regiment is badly slieltered, and presents all the causes of disease in an exaggerated state. Among the other regiraentSyi the 57th has nearly 200 sick, the 10th has 150, the 61st '200, the 6th dragoons 40, 7th dragoons 30, 4th hussars 60, infantry of marine 20, engineers 13, artillery 100. In all these regi- ments there is not a single case of sickness among the otticers, who are better lodged and led." The whole number of French troops sent to the army of the East, as already mentioned, was 3'J9,2|)8 : the whole number of deaths was 69,22!J; of this num- ber there were 7,500 who were killed on the battle-field, or not afterwards heard from. The total attacks of cholera in the French army of the East amounted to 18,400. Of this number 11,000 were fatal. Attacks 1 to 15 of the army; deaths 1 to l-f'o tli'^ cases. The total attacks of typhus were about 35,0(10; total deaths from the same disease 17,515. The whole number of cases of diarrhoea was 19,339, of dysentery 6,105. Scurvy prevailed to a great extent during the severe cold of winter, and during the sultry heat of summer, but almost dis- appeared during the spring and autumn. Scrive says that the single efficient cause of scurvy was the absence of fresh vegetables." lie adds, " Scurvy, like typhus, can be created at will." A considerable number of French soldiers died from exposure to cold, frosted limbs, etc. Most of these were intem- perate persons. Among the wounded in battle, 1 in 5 died on the field, the proportion being the same in the three battles of Alma, Inkernian, and Traktir Bridge. The proportion of amputations was about 1 out of 6 wounded. During the tii'st five or six weeks of the siege the health of the troops was good, and the wounds pursued a favorable course; at a later period the wounds did not do so well. Fi 'om the tacts which have been presented, it is very evident that the lives of military men are much more endangered by disease than by wounds received in battle. It is, tlien, one of the highust duties of an army surgeon to make himself well acquainted with the correct principles of military hygiene, and to exert his influence to the greatest possible extent in promo- iiig the health and physical energy of the soldiers who are in-10 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPKUTTCS trusted to his care. Your committee proposes to consider the subject of military lijgicue in some of its most important de- tails. I. The Selection of a Ground for an Encamipvient. It is a matter of the utmost importance, whenever it is practi- cable, to avoid encamping in a malarious district. The encamp- ing ground should be dry, moderately elevated, and with a sufficient slope to prevent water from stagnating when it rains. It should be in the vicinity of pure water drinking and wash- ing, and there should be an abundant supply of fuel for cook- ing. The want of water in the vicinity of an encampment is a very formidable evil. When the French army, after the battle of Alma, encamped near the village of Mackenzie, they found but two or three wells, which were soon exhausted. The soldiers called the camp " the camp of thirst." They en- dured great suffering in consequence of the want of water. In selecting a site for encampment on the banks of a river, care should be taken to guard against the danger of inunda- tion by a rapid rise of the water, from melting of snow, or from a sudden fall of rain. If military necessity should require an encampment in the neighborhood of an extensive marsh, the ground should always, if possible, be selected on the wind- ward side, so that the prevailing winds should carry away the noxious emanations from the soil. When soldiers are exposed to cold and damp air without suitable protection, the injurious effects of such exposure will be diminished by the judicious use of camp-fires. In malarious districts, the protective use of the sulphate of quinine is to be highly commended. Each man may take three to ten grains daily, according to the in- tensity of the malarious influence. It may' be taken in one dose at bedtime.MILITARY HYG1F:NE AND THERAPEUTICS. 11 II, The Con.druction and Arrangement of Tenfs^ and other means which are employed to protect the Soldiers from the Weather. Tents should be made of a strong material and of close tcxtni-e, so as to perfectly exclude the rain. The ground on which the soldier lies should be covered with boards, with straw, with twigs of pine, hemlock, or cedar, or with itidia-rubbei' chitli, to exclude the moisture from beneath. In hot weather, where there are no shade-trees, the tents should be double, to exclude the solar heat, and ventilation should be afforded on the shady side. There should also be openings for ventilation at the up- per part of the tents, to carry oif the heated gases which accu- mulate in those regions. A sufficient number of tents should be provided to prevent over-crowding; and if, in any emergency, it should be necessary to crowd an unusual number of persons in a tent, the evil should be counterbalanced, as far as circum- stances will permit, by increased ventilation. The tents should not be allowed to remain many days in the same position, as the ground which they cover absorbs the emanations from the body, and thus vitiates the air. In fine weather the tents should fVequently be taken down in the morning and put up again in the afternoon or evening. Every fine day the cloth- ing and bedding should be freely exposed to the outer air. A sufficient space should be allowed between the tents to admit free ventilation. AVhen the tents have been removed to a new ground, unless it be to a great distance from their furmcr site,, thegi'ound from whii-h they have been removed should be i)uri- fied by si»rinkling it freely with charcoal, lime, or other disin- fecting agents. When circumstances forbid the removal of the tents, the ground may be purified by a similar use of antisep- tic agents. The French army surgeons in the Ci-imea used sul- phate of iron as a disinfecting agent. It was dissolved in fitteen times its weight of water. Three litres were used to dis- infect a sfpm,re metre of ground. It was also poured on collec- tions of filth, I'a'ces, &c. A litre is a little more than a quart ;. a metre is about thirty-nine inches.12 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. When soldiers are making forced marches, and moans of rapid transportation are insnfficient, as they usually are on sucli occa- sions, it is better to dispense with tlie use of tents, and to sleep in the open aii', as a more abundant supply of food, clothing, blankets, and other articles which are inore indispensable to the health and comfort of the troops, may thus be transported. Wlien an army is to be encamped during the winter, wooden huts are to be preferred to tents, as affording better protection to their inmates. In the construction of these huts, it is very important to make ample provision for efficient ventilation, and to avoid over-crowding. There should be openings for ventilation at the ends, sides, and ridge of each hut They should also have projecting eaves—boards to protect the sides from the heat of the sun, and to prevent the entrance of rain or snow througli the openings which are left for ventilation. They shouhl be whitewashed v^ith lime within and without. Care should be taken to prevent accumulations of water about tents or huts. The ground should be sloping, and, whenever it is necessarv, trenches should be dns: to carrv O'S the water. When an encampment is to remain long in one place, and the ground is tenacious of moisture, the streets between the tents or huts should be paved. III. The Disposition of Excrements and Offal. Pits should be dug on the leeward side of the camp, and or- dinarily at a distance of not less than two hundred yards. They should be at least four feet in depth, and the bottom should be covered with charcoal. Such offal as cannot be consumed by fire should be thrown into the pits each day. and then covered with charcoal and a few inches of earth. When the matter reaches within two feet of the surface, cover with charcoal, and till up with earth a little above the level of the adjacent surface. No pit should be dug for such purposes near any source from which water is supplied to the camp. Dead animals and oflfensive offal should be buried imuiediatelv, at such a depth that nt least throe feet should intervene Ix-MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 1?, tween their upper surface and the level of tlie ground. Before the pit is filled in, the cai-cass or ofFal sliould be covered with charcoal. Similar precautions should be observed in the in- terment of human bodies. After a severe engagement, attend- ed with great loss of life, the bodies should be interred in trenches eight or ten feet in dcjjth. When offensive emana- tions arise from the ground, in consequence of tlie decomposi- tion of organized substances, the surface should be covered with deodorizing materials. The British sanitary inspectors ill the Crimea I'eccmimended for this purpose a cdmpound con- sisting of one part of peat charcoal, one part of quicklime, and four parts of sand or gravel. Mr. Sorive, medical inspector of the Fi-ench army in the Crimea, i-ecommended a solution of cldoride of lime for the same purpose. He sometimes directed the solution of sulphate of iron to accomplish this object. He also directed the bodies of men and animals to be covered witii a thick stratum of lime, after being buried at a proper depth. IV. Clothing. Flannel should be worn next to tlie skin. The clothing should be light, and should be so adjusted as not to interfere with the most perfect freedom of muscular action. Each soldier should be provided with one or more blankets, for protection during the night. The clothing should be washed and thoroughly dried as often as circumstances will permit. From the first of October to the end of May, each soldier should be provided with a thick overcoat to protect him from cold and stormy weather. The feet should be covered with stockings, and stout shoes with broad soles and low heels. The shoes should not be tight so as to pinch the feet, but they should not be exces- Bively loose. Great care is required with fresh recruits, to prevent the feet from becoming sore. If the heel becomes sbghtly chafed, the part should be at once covered with adhe- sive plaster. For want of this simple precaution many soldiers have become disabled, and have thus fallen into the" hands of the enemy, and in contests with savages, liave lost their lives.14 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. In liot weather, the heads of tlie soldiers should be protected by means of straw hats or of havelocks. V. Supply and Preparation of Food and Drhxks. This is a subject of great importance to the health and effi- ciency of armies, and the neglect of which is apt to be followed by the most disastrous consequences. It is highly important not only that the supply of food should be ample, but that its quality should be good, and that it should be in such a form that it can be prepared for use as speedily and with as little labor as possible. Hard biscuit or pilot-bread may be furnished alternately with soft bread; and care should be taken to pre- vent the use of any bread of inferior quality. Butter and cheese may be added with the morning and evening meal, on which occasion coffee or tea should also be provided. The coffee Avhich is furnished to the men should be already roasted and ground, so that it can be i)repared with little labor. There should always be a sufficient allowance of sugar and milk. Where fresh milk cannot be obtained in sufficient quantities, solidified milk may be used as a substitute. There should be a regular allowance of meat and vegetables at dinner, whenever it is practic;ible to furnish theiii. Soldiei-s shoukl nut be confined for a lung time to salted meat; but fresh meat should always be abowed whenever it can be obtained. The use of iVesh vegetables is of very great importance as a means of gnariling against scurv}-. There are many herbs or weeds growing in the fieUls or by the roadsides, whi(;h can be employed ibr this purpose when better vegetables cannot be obtained. Thus, the French sohliers in the Crimea derived the greatest advan- tages from the use of thuideUon (Leontodon Tai'a.xaeum), dressed with oil and vinegar, and eaten as a salad. Fruits should also be provided in tlieii' season, either in a fresh or dried state. When fresh vegetables cannot he obtained, their ]>lace may be in |)art supplied by the use ul' x'egetables desie- cated in a rarified atmosphere. There seems to be no oood reason why soldiers should not be fed as well, under ordinaryMILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 16 circumstances as the better class of laboring men at home. It would be very desirable that there should be at least one good cook for every company of soldiers, as the wholesonieness of their food depends very much on the manner in which it is prepared. General Scott is reported to have said, that a man who cannot make good bread is not fit to be captain of a com- pany. An ample supply of good water, for drinking and cooking, is a matter of great importance to the health and comfort of soldiers. It would be well if every regiment were supplied with a distilling apparatus, by means of which the water of marshes or even of the ocean could be purified. Dis- tilled water, agitated so as to mix with it a sufficient quantity o*' air, might often be substituted with great advantage for the impure and unwholesome water which soldiers are com- pelled to drink. Great care should be taken to guard against the excessive use of alcoholic drinks. It would be well for the young men in our armies to make no use of these beverages, except when they are prescribed for medicinal pmrposes. There can be no reasonable doubt that the health of ar- mies has been in many instances greatly impaired, and that mukitudes of valuable lives have been lost, in consequence of the insufficient quantity or the bad quality of the food which has been furnished. The errors which have been committed in this respect have sometimes been due to mistakes at head- quarters, sometimes to a want of knowledge or of attention on the part of the commissaries of regiments, and sometimes to the knavery of contractors, who have committed wholesale murder by depriving the soldiers of the full supply of good food which they have engaged to furnish, and for which they have received ample compensation. It is not improbable that the Austrian army was defeated at Solferino in consequence of the soldiers being exhausted by long fasting, the Commissary General having appropriated to his own use the funds which were furnished him for the purpose of providing rations for the army. It is important that the rations of the soldiers should, under ordinary circumstances, be issued daily. AVhen rations are distributed at one time for several days, there is often at first an unnecessary waste, in consequence of which the soldiei-s af-16 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THEKAPEUTICS. tei'wai-ds suffer from Avant, or supply tlieniselves by plunder. With regard to the hard biscuit usually furnished to the soldiers as a part of their diet, M. Scrivo says, that it should be made thinner and more friable, as by its thickness and hardness it irritates and inflames the gums. M. Scrive also says, that when fresh meat cannot be supplied to the army, it should be replaced by preserved meats and soups; and that salt beef sliould, as far as possible, be abandoned as an arti- cle of food for soldiers, especially in long campaigns and in distant regions, as it is very apt to become spoiled. Borden's meat-biscuit may be a valuable article of diet, when fresh meat cannot be obtained. When soldiers have long been confined to the use of salted and smoked provisions, and fresh meat is afterwards liberally supplied to them, they are very apt to be attacked with severe and often fatal dysentery. The precau- tion should therefore be adopted to furnish to the men at first a very limited supply of fresh meat; the quantity may be gradually increased, as they become accustomed to its use. The dysentery, occurring under these circumstances, is stated by Dr. Hewitt, formerly surgeon in the U. S. army, to be most readily cured by purging with sulphate of magnesia.' VI. As a means of preserving the health of soldiers, great care should be taken, as far as military necessities will al- low, to avoid excessive and exhausting labor, and to allow ample time for sleep. There is no doubt that a large part of the UKjrtality among the troops who were engaged in the Crimean war was owing to the perhaps unavoidable violation of these rules. The men were engaged in almost incessant labor, and their sleep was often disturbed, while, at the same time, they were exposed to the heat and cold, rain and snow, with very insiifiicient protection. Whenever it is necessary to have a large amount of labor performed, it is bettei', if prac- ticable, to hire laborers, than to require an excessive amount of work from the soldiers. Under the head of military therapeutics, are to be considered the preparations which are required for the practice of medi- cine and surgery under the peculiar circumstances attending the movements of armies, and the actual treatment of diseases andMILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. IT injuries occurring under those circumstances. In laborious marches, in obstinate and jjrotracted sieges, in sudden and unexpected assaults, in severe and bloody engagements, tlie militar}^ surgeon is called in rapid succession to the treatment of large numbers of sick and wounded soldiers. There is no time for cahn deliberation and careful preparation ; lie cannot send his prescriptions to an apothecary, nor can he sen 1 to a manufacturer for new instruments or apparatus. The few medi- cines, instruments, and dressings which he requires, must be at hand, or his patients must be deprived of the benefits whicli they would have derived from them. A wise foresight must therefore be exercised in providing such materials as are indis- pensable to the care of the sick and wounded, and in conveying them to every place where they may be needed. All bulky and heavy articles which are not absohitely essential should be dispensed with, on account of the difficulty and delay in con- veying them from place to place. The best way of conveying the ap[)aratus of an army surgeon is a box-cart, similar to those which are often used by peddlers. In going over a country too rough for wheel-carriages, a pair of panniers slung over the back of a horse or mule is the best substitute for a cart. The weight of the panniers with their contents should not exceed 200 lbs. Each surgeon should be provided with a case of amputating and trephining instruments, with scalpels, bistouries, lancets, and other instruments for minor operations. He should always have about his person a good case of pocket instruments, and a canteen containing wine or brandy and water, ready to be used as a cordial in any case of emergency. He should also carry in his pocket a phial containing pills of opium. In the cart or panniers containing his apparatus there should be a supply of sponges, bandages, lint, tow, cotton batting, old linen ur mus- lin for compresses, ligatures, tin basins, splints, adhesive plas- ter, pins, needles, matches, candles, catheters and bougies, a stomach pump, an enema pump, and a suppository syringe. There should be a dozen tourniquets, and the orderly men, who act as assistants to the surgeon, should l)e instructed in their application. There should also be a supply of anesthetics and of medicines suitable tu the emergencies of military life. On18 MILITARY HYGIKXK AND THERAPEUTICS. the field of battle, each surgeon should be immediately fol-• lowed by an orderly man, bearing a knapsack containing a few of the most indispensable instruments and dressings for immediate use. Previously to an engagement, a certain num- hev of men from each company should be deputed to take charge of such soldiers as may be wounded, and to remove them at once to a place of safety in the rear of the army. For this purpose, litters should be at hand, made of stout canvas, with stretchers, and provided with rings, into which bayonets or poles may be inserted. Ambulance carts should also be brought as near as possible to the scene of the engagement, and the wounded soldiers should be speedily deposited in them, and driven off to the place selected, where they may receive < proper surgical attention. The U. S. Army medical board recommend that the follow- ing schedule of transports for the sick and wounded, and for hospital supplies, be adopted for a state of war with a civilized enemy : " For commands of less than three companies, one two- wheeled transport cart for hospital supplies ; and to each com- pany, one two-wheeled ambulance. " For commands of moi-e than three and less than five com- panies, two two-wheeled transport carts; and to each company, one two-wheeled ambulance. "For a battalion of five companies, one four-wheeled ambu- lance, five two-wheeled ambulances, and two two-wheeled trans- port carts. For each additional company, less than ten, one two-wheeled transport cart. " For a regiment of ten companies, two four-wheeled ambu- lances, ten two-wheeled ambulances, and four two-wheeled transport carts ; and for greater commands in proportion." Also that "horse-litters may be prepared and furnished to posts, whence the}^ may be required for service on ground not admitting the employment of two-wheeled carriages ; said litters to be composed of a canvas bed similar to the pi-esents trctcher, and of two poles, each sixteen feet long, to be made in sections with head and foot i>ieces, constructed to act as stretchers to keep the poles apart." •.MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 19 Also, that " the allowance of hospital attendants in the field will be, for one company, one steward, one nurse, and one cook; for each additional company, one nurse; and for com- mands of over five companies, one additional cook." The army Boai'd also recommend hospital tents of the fol- lowing dimensions: "In length, 14 feet; in width, 15 feet; in height (centre) 11 feet, with a wall 4^ feet, and a fly of appro- priate size. The ridge pole to be made in two sections, and to measure 14 feet when joined." The Board contemplate that such a tent will accommodate 8 to 10 patients comfortably. It is evident, however, that the space allowed for each patient is altogether too small, amounting to only a little more than 160 cubic feet for each patient. In making arrangements for the care of sick and wounded soldiers, there should be hospital tents erected as near as pos- sible to the field of battle, so that dressings and operations which are urgently required, may be i^erformed without any unnecessary delay. Thei'e should also be regimental hospitals, which may be constructed as tents, huts, or more permanent buildings, according to the season of the year and the charac- ter of the military operations. Each regimental hospital should have accommodations for fifty to one hundred patients. There should also be general hospitals at the base of operations, and in these there should be ample accommodations for all the pa- tients which may be sent to them from the regimental hospitals, or directly from the camps or the battle-field. The regimental and general hospitals should contain suflicient space to allow not less than eight hundred cubic feet of air for each patient. The horizontal space should not be less than 6 b}^ 6 feet for each patient. Large public buildings, such as churches, concert-rooms, and public halls, are commonly employed as general military hospitals. It is often necessary to make ex- tensive alterations to adapt them to their new use. Special regard should be paid to ventilation. The doors and windows usually require to be enlarged, especially in an upward and downward direction ; or numerous holes, six inches square, may be made through the walls near the floors and ceilings. There should be doors and windows opposite to each other, soMILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 20 as to allow the air to pass freely tlirougli in all directions. The patients should not be placed in stories below the level of the ground or but slightly raised above it, as experience has shown that the upper stories are much more salubrious. The beds should be raised from the floor, being placed on iron bed- steads whenever they can be obtained. No two bedsteads should be in contact, and none should touch the walls of the room. No unnecessary articles should be in the wards, as they occupy valuable space, and absorb noxious vapors. Care should be taken that the windows do not open upon any re- ceptacles of foul air. Besides the principal hospital buildings, there should be small detached houses reserved for special cases. Near the entrance of the towai some building or tents should be selected as receiving hospital, Avhere the wounded should be brought and properly cleansed, wounds dressed, and suitable hospital clothes provided ; and then they should be forwarded to the permanent hospital. Great attention should be paid to privies and drains connected with the hospital, to prevent them from contaminating the atmosphere. Patients who are able to rise from their beds should eat in adjoining rooms or tents. The wards of the hospitals should be divided into three classes, viz., surgical, medical, and convalescent. To every division of one hundred beds, there should be at least one ward superin- tendent and six orderly-men. When the hospital is prepared, the compound fractures should be placed in the most accessi- ble wards, and injuries of the same character should be placed in the same wards. When wine or spirits are directed, the surgeon should sec them administered. To preserve the pu- rity of the air, the wards should be frequently whitewaslied with lime. The adjacent grounds should be well drained, and the sewers should be frequently flushed. Excretions should be as soon as possible removed from the wards. The tempo- rary hospitals attached to camps are subject to terrible mis- haps. I>azancourt speaks in the following terms of the effects of a hurricane upon the frail structure used as a military hos- pital by the French army in the Crimea: "The ambulance barracks are shattered by the fury of the wind ; and whilst their roofs, carried up in the air, whirl around and disappear,MILITARY HYGIKNK AND THKRAPEUTICS. 21 tlie broken timbers fall upon the wounded and the sick, whose beds are overturned into the pools of rain which inundate them. Most of the patients are unable to move, being quite prostrated by illness, or by severe wounds, and lie waiting with resigna- tion that which the will of God may determine respecting them." In the French army in the Crimea each ambulance for ten thousand men had three caissons, containing materials for six thousand dressings, and eighteen complete tents. Flying am- bulances on mules' backs were provided for regions where car- riages could not go. As an example of the manner of taking care of the wounded during and after an engagement, your Committee presents the following directions given by M. Scrive to the medical officers of the French army in June, 185.5 : "At tlie ambulance of the trenches shall be assembled before the bat- tle the non-combatant soldiers—the musicians of the regiment, for example, with the infirniarj'' men disposable in the different services. One or several officers of administration will direct them in the trenches to take up the wounded, and trans- port them to the ambulance. An officer of administration, having a fixed position at the ambulance, will attend to placing the wounded, on their arrival, in an order always tlie same, and determined beforehand to avoid confusion. The visits to the wounded shall be made by one or more surgeons, assisted by two or more infirmary men carrying dressings, &c.; one of these last will inscribe the name of the patient, his regiment, and his matriculated number. The surgeon will determine whether the wound requires to be dressed immediately, or if the patient can be at once transported to the ambulance of the division. In the first place, the wound may be dressed on the spot, or, if an immediate operation is required, the patient may be conveyed into the operating room. After the dressing or operation, the patient may be placed upon the litter or ambu- lance cart. Where four to six wounded persons ai"e I'eady, they shall be conveyed together to the ambulance of the divis- ion ; and in these little successive journeys, tlie muleteers, un- der the direction of an officer commanding the train, shall betake themselves to the ambulance, whose number shall haveMILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 22 been designated by the military snb-intendant or his aid, who shall mark upon the list of vacant places, at the different sta- tionary ambulances, the names of the wounded whom he will send there successively. In this manner the exact situation of the ambulances will be precisely known. When the wounded are very numerous, no operations shall be performed except- ing those which are absolutely necessary. One-third of the surgeons shall be constantly occupied in visiting the wounded, and judging as to the necessity of immediate operation or dress- ing, especially when the number of the wounded is large; the remaining two-thirds shall attend to the necessary opera- tions and dressings, following, except in cases of great urgency, the order of arrival and the rank of the patient. In the ambu- lance of the trenches, the services of the infirmary men may be conveniently divided in the following manner: two infirm- ary men for each surgeon engaged in dressing; two infirmary men for each surgeon on his visits—one to write, and the other to assist the patient to get on the litter; four infirmary men for an operating table; and finally, eight to twelve infirmary men engaged as porters, to attend to the transportation of the wounded. It is very important to prevent the crowding of the ambulance of the trenches by soldiers whose aid is not required. A guard should therefore be placed at the door to prevent such persons from entering. In the ambulance of the division, on the day of battle, two surgeons should be on duty to re- ceive the wounded coming from the trenches, and to examine minutely each wound. They shall make a definitive dressing in cases where an immediate operation is not indicated." The general practice of the French surgeons in the Crimea was to extract foreign bodies from Avounds at an early pe- riod, whenever they were easily accessible. The most efficient styptics in arresting hemorrhage, where tlie blood-vessels could not be conveniently tied, were the perchloride and the persulphate of iron. Amputations were generally resorted to in severe injuries of the limbs, and the results were more favor- able than wiien conservative surgery was attempted. Primary amputations were much more successful than secondary. Scrive makes an exception to this rule, in the case of amputation ofMILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 23 the liip-joint. Nine primary amputations at tliis joint were performed by the French surgeons in the Crimea, and in all death took place within a few hours after the opei-ation. There were three consecutive amputations at the hip : the patients severally lived five, twelve, and twenty days. Kesections were generally fatal, except in the upper extremity. Scrive remarks, tliat when amputation was performed a day or two after an in- jury, it was much more difficult to induce anesthesia thaii when the amputation was performed on the same day. The am- putations were as follows: hip, 12 ; thigh, 1,512 ; knee, 58 ; leg, 915; foot, 211; toes, 220; shoulder, 168; arm, 912 ; elbow, forearm, and wrist, 278; hand and fingers, 282, The average dressings for each ^Datient were: of linen, 2,482 grammes; roller bandages, 891 grammes; charpie, 1,181 grammes. The weight of dressings during the campaign amounted to 196,000 kilogi'ammes. (A gramme is about 15 grains; a kilogramme 2 lbs. 8 oz. troy weight). Average number of dressings for each wounded person, 35 ; total number of dressings, 1,100,000. Numljer of surgeons wounded by the fire of the enemy and by the explosion of magazine, 19. One died in consequence of his wounds. The labors of the surgeons were excessively se- vere. Each surgeon, on an average, was obliged to visit daily more than lOO patients. Eighty-three French army sur- geons died during the war. It is very evident that the amount of labor thrown upon the medical officers of the French army was unreasonably great, and that the number of these officers should have been largely increased. When an army is called into active service, and is exposed to pestilential diseases and to bloody engagements, a much larger amount of medical ser- vice is recpiired than can be reasonably expected of a surgeon and an assistant surgeon to each regiment. Your Committee does not consider it necessary to enter into the details of the treatment which is required in gunshot wounds, and in other injuries to which soldiers are exposed, as these subjects are treated at considerable length in the text- books of surgery, which are in the hands of most of our prac- titioners. There are, however, some practical lessons to which a passing allusion may be made witli advantage. When the21 MILITARY HYGIKNE AND THERAPEUTICS. attention of an army surgeon is first directed to a number of wounded persons, who liave been brought from the field of battle, it is important to determine the order in which his ser- vices should be rendered to them. In order that the greatest amount of effectual relief may be afibrded, certain rules may be laid down for the guidance of the surgeon under these trying circumstances. The cases to which the first attention of the sur- geon should be given are not those of so severe a character as to be almost necessarily fatal; nor, on the other hand, those which are comparatively slight and unattended Avith danger. But liis first attention should be directed to injuries which are severe and dangerous, but which at the same time afi'ord a good pros- pect of recovery. The cases most urgently requiring imme- diate treatment are those in which there is alarming hemor- rhage, the source of which is not beyond the reach of surgical skill. The cases next in order of urgency, are those in which, from the shock of the injury, there is more or less prostration, requiring the use of cordials and stimulants. Then come the cases of compound fracture, some of these requiring amputa- tion or resection, and others mechanical support to prevent dis- tortion and the irritation arising from muscular spasm, causing spiculfe of bone to penetrate the soft parts. jSText in order come the slighter cases of injury of the viscera, al^^ays attended with danger, but not necessarily fatal. After disposing of those cases which are more or less hopeful, the surgeon may direct his attention to the comfort and relief of the more severe injuries, in which a fatal result is almost certain to ensue. And lastly, he may attend to the minor operations and dressings in cases of injury which are not regarded as dangerous to life. The result of primary amputations at the hip-joint is so uniformly disastrous, that, in the opinion of your Committee, these operations should be discarded from military surgery. If the patient should in any case recover from the shock of the terrible injury which seems to require so formidable an opera- tion as amputation at the hip-joint, the operation may be pei"- formed consecutively with better prospect of success, without diverting the attention of the surgeon, at this period, from a more hopeful class of cases.25 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. There is another subject wliich your Committee would bring to the notice of the surgical section of the Academy, viz., the injurious consequences resulting from the hasty removal of the sick and wounded by a discomfited and retreating army. Under these circumstances, your Committee would suggest the expediency of leaving the sick and wounded, with a sufficient number of medical attendants, to fall into the hands of the enemy as prisoners of war, in all cases in which there is a large number of patients whose lives would be greatly endangered by the removal, and in which reliance could be placed on the magnanimity of the victorious party. There might be a previ- ous understanding between the belligerent parties, that hospital buildings, or tents, so abandoned, and surmounted by a flag of truce, or some other preconcerted signal, should be safe from attack. There is another subject to which the attention of the section might have been directed at an earlier part of the rej^ort, viz., the importance of a thorough inspection of recruits who pre- sent themselves for admission into the armJ^ The admission of sickly and feeble men into an army is an evil of the greatest magnitude, not merely depriving the government of the ser- vices of such individuals, but exerting an injurious influence upon the health, spirit, and efficiency of their comrades. Every recruit should therefore undergo a most thorough inspec- tion, and if deficient in the physical qualities which are neces- sary for a soldier, he should without hesitation be rejected. A soldier should be a full grown man, and not a boy. The most eligible age for a recruit is twenty to twenty-five years. A soldier should be strictly temperate in his habits, as intemper- ance is one of the most fruitful sources of disease as well as of insubordination and of crime. He should have perfect sight and perfect hearing, as a failure in either of these senses would render him incompetent to perform the duties which are expect- ed of a soldier. He should be smmd in all his vital organs, and hhould have a good degree of muscular development. The medical inspector should examine the recruit, divested of his clothing, investigating the condition of every vital organ, test- ing the sight and hearing, and subjecling t.he head, trnnk,26 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. and limlis to ocular inspection, and to manual palpation. The condition of the nrinaiy organs sliould not be overlooked, and the candidate should be required to pass his urine in the presence of the inspector. A careful investigation should be instituted with reference to the existence of hernia or aneurism. Ulcers or cicatrices on the legs, varicose veins, corns, bunions, and inverted toe-nails,, sliould lead to the rejection of the can- didate. If the inspection of recruits were more thoroughly conducted than it usually is, it would greatly add to the vigor and efKciency of our armies. All which is respectfully submitted. Alfred C. Post, M. D., "Wm. H. Van Bueen, M. D., Committee. New York, June 21,1861.ITHE UNITED STATES SANITAEY COMMISSION. B.. DIRECTIONS TO ARMY SURGEONS ON T0B FIELD OF BATTLE. By G. J. GUTHRIE, F. R. S., Late Staff Surgeon, British ^r^r.y. FIFTH EDITION. PRINTED POR CIRCULATION BY THE UNITED STATES SANITARr COMMISSION, 1864.I The attention of the United States Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of cliief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its aseociate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper, " Directions to Army Surgeons on the Field of Bat- tle," belongs to this series, and is respectfhlly recommended by the Commis- sion to the medical officers of our army now in the field. 'Esso. Law Olmsted, General Secretary, WAsmNGTON, December 6, 1861. Ii IIDIEECTIONS TO %x\\\l ^\\x^m\s on flje i'ul^ of l^atile. 1. "Water being of tlie utmost importance to wounded men, care should be taken wlicn before the enemy, not only that barrels attached to convej'ancc-carts are proj^erly filled with good water, but that skins for holding water, or such other means as are commonly used in the country for cai'rying it, should be procured and duly filled. 2. Bandages or rollers applied on the field of battle, are in general, so many things wasted, as they become dirty and stiff, and are usually cut away and destroyed without having been really useful, [j^evertlieless, in connection with splints, in cases of fractures of the limbs, they are indispensable.] 3. Simple gun-shot wounds recpiire nothing more, for the first two or three days, than the application of a piece of wet or oiled linen, i'astened on with a strip of sticking-plaster, or, if possible, kept constantly wet and cold Avith water. When cold disagrees, warm water should be substituted. 4. Wounds made by swords, sabi-es, or other sharp-cutting instruments, arc to Ijc treated principally by position. Thus, a cut down to the bone, across the thick part of the arm, immedi- ately below the shoulder, is to be ti-eated by raising the arm to or above a right angle with the body, in which position it is to6 be retained, liowever inconvenient it may be. Ligatures may be inserted, but tbrougli tbe skin only. If the tbroat be cut across in front, any great vessels should be tied, and the oozing stopped by a sponge. After a few hours, when the oozing is ar- rested, the sponge should be removed, and the head brought down towards the chest, and retained in that position without ligatures ; if this is done too soon, the suiFerer may possibly be suffocated by the infiltration of blood into the areolar tissue of the parts adjacent. 5. If the cavity of the chest is opened into by a sword or lance, it is of the utmost imj)ortance that the wound in the skin should be efiectively closed, and this can only be done by sewing it up as a tailor or a lady would sew up a seaiu, skin only being included ; a compress of lint should be applied over the stitches, fastened on by sticking-plaster. The patient is then to be placed on the wounded side, that the lung may fall down, if it can, upon, or apply itself to, the wounded part, and adhere to it, by which happy and hoped for accident life will in all probability be preserved. If the lung should be seen protruding in the wound, it should not be returned beyond the level of the ribs, but be covered over by the external parts. 6. It is advisable to encourage previously the discharge of blood from the cavity of the chest, if any have fallen into it; but if the bleeding from within should continue, so as to place the life of the sufierer in danger, the external wound should be closed, and events awaited. 7. "When it is doubtful whether the bleeding proceeds from the cavity of the chest, or from the intercostal artery, (a surgical bugbear,) an incision through the skin and the external inter- costal muscle will expose the arter^^ close to the edge of the rib havino; the internal intercostal muscle behind it. The vessel thus ex-]^)osed may be tied, or the ond pinched by the forceps, until it ceases to bleed. Tying a string round the ribs is a de- structive piece of cruelty, and the plugs, cfcc, formerly recom- mended, may be considered as surgical incongruities.14. In a case of gun-shot fracture of the upper arm, in which 8. A gnn-shot wound in the chest cannot close by adhesion^ and must remain open. The position of the sufierer should, therefore, be that which is most comfortable to him. A small hole penetrating the cavity is more dangerous than a large one, and the wound is less dangerous if the ball goes through the body. The wounds should be examined and enlarged if neces- sary, in order to remove all extraneous substances, even if they should be seen to stick on the surface of the lungs ; the opening should be covered with soft oiled or wet lint—a bandage wlicn agreeable. The ear of the surgeon and the stethoscope are in- valuable aids, and ought always to be in use ; indeed no injury of the chest can be scientifically treated without them. 9. Incised and gun-shot wounds of the abdomen are to be treated in nearly a similar manner; the position in both being that which is most agreeable to the patient, the parts being re- laxed. In incised wounds of the abdominal parietes great care should be taken to include in the sutures all the tissues except the peritoneum. 11. In wounds of the bladder, an elastic or silver catheter is generally necessary. If it cannot be passed, an opening should be made in the perineum for the evacuation of the urine, with as little delay as possible. 12. In gun-shot fractures of the skull, the broken pieces of bone and all extraneous substances are to be removed as soon as possible, and depressed fractures of the bone are to be raised. A deep cut made by a heavy sword through the bone into the brain, generally causes a considerable depression of the inner table of the bone, whilst the outer may appear to be merely divided. 13. An arm is i>arely to be amputated, except from the effects of a cannon-shot. The head of the bone is to be sa\\Ti off, if necessary. The elbow joint is to be cut out, if destroyed, and the sufferer, in either case, may have a very useful arm.8 the bone is much splintered, incisions are to be made for the removal of all the broken pieces which it is feasible to take away. The elbow is to be supported. The forearm is to be ti-eated in a similar manner ; the splints nsed should be solid. 15. The hand is never to be amputated, unless all or nearly all its parts are destroyed. Different bones of it, and of the wrist, are to be removed when irrecoverably injured, with or without the metacarpal bones and lingers, or the thumb ; but a thumb and one finger should be preserved when possible. 16. The head of the thigh bone should be sawn off when broken by a musket ball. Amputation at the hip joint should Duly be done when the fracture extends some distance into the shaft, or the limb is destro^'cd by cannon shot. [There is little encouragement for the performance of primary amputation or re- section at the hip joint.] 17. The knee joint should be cut out when irrecoverably in- jured ; but the limb is not to be amputated until it cannot be avoided. 18. A gun-shot fractm-e of the middle of the thigh, attended by great splintering, is a case for amputation. In less difficult cases, the splinters should be removed by incisions, particulai-ly when they can be made on the upper and outer side of the thigh. The limb should be placed on a straight, firm splint. A broken thigh does not admit of much, and sometimes of no extension, ■without an unadvisable increase of suficring. An inch or two of shortening in the thigh does not so materially interfere with progression as to make the suftcrer regret having escaped amputation. [The sufferings of the patient will be greatly al- leviated by judicious extension with strips of adhesive plaster, and a more useful limb will thus be secured.] 19. A leg -injured below the knee should rarely be ampu- tated in the first instance, unless from the eficcts of a cannon shot. The splintcrtj of bone lu-e all to be immediately rC'9 moved, by saw or forceps, after due incisions. The limb should be placed in iron splints, and hung on a permanent frame, as affording the greatest comfort, and probable chance of ultimate success. 20. An ankle-joint is to be cut out, unless the tendons around are too much injured, and so are the tarsal and meta- tarsal bones and toes. Incisions have hitherto been too little employed in the early treatment of these injuries of the foot for the removal of extraneous substances. 21. A wound of the principal artery of the thigh, in addition to a gun-shot fracture, renders immediate amputation necessary. In no other part oi the hodj is amputation to be done in the first instance for such injury. Ligatures are to be placed on the wounded artery, one above, the other below the wound, and events awaited. 22. The occuiTence of mortification in any of these cases will be known by the change of color in the sldn. It will rarely occvu- in the upper extremity, but it will frequently do so in the lower. When about to take place, the color of the skin of the foot changes, from the natural flesh color to a tallowy or mottled white. Amputation should be performed immediately above the fractured part. The mortification is yet local. 23. When this discoloration has not been observed, and the part shrinks, or gangrene has set in with more marked appear- ances, but yet seems to have stopped at the ankle, delay is, per- haps, admissible ; but if it again should spread, or its cessation be doubtful, amputation should take place forthwith, although under less favorable circumstances. The mortification,is be- coming, or has become, constitutional. 24. Bleeding to the loss of life is not a common occurrence m gun-shot wounds, although many do bleed considerably ; seldom, however, requiring the application of a tourniquet as a matter of necessity, although frequently as one of precaution. 25. When the great artery of the thigh is wounded, (not torn across,) the bone being uninjured, the suflercr will probably10 bleed to death, unless aid be afibrded, by making compression above, and on tlie bleeding part. A long, but not broad stone, tied sharply on with a handkerchief, will often suffice until as- sistance can be obtained, when both ends of the divided or wounded artery are to be secured by ligatures. 26. The Tipper end of the great artery of the thigh bleeds scarlet blood, the lower end dark venous-colored blood; and this is not departed from in a case of accidental injury, unless there have been previous disease in the limb. A knowledge of this fact or circumstance, which continues for several days, will pre- vent a mistake at the moment of injury, and at a subsequent period, if secondary haemorrhage should occur. In the upper extremity both ends of the principal artery bleed scarlet blood, from the free collateral circulation, and from the anastomoses in the hand. 27. From this cause mortification rarely takes place after a wound of the principal artery of the arm, or even of the armpit. \t frequently follows a wound of the principal artery, in the up- per, middle, or even lower jDarts of the thigh, rendering ampu- tation necessary. 28. It is a great question, when the bone is xininjxired, where, and at what part, the amputation should be performed. Mortification of the foot and leg from such a wound, is diposed to stop a little below the knee, if it should not destroy the suf- ferer ; and the operation, if done in the first instance, as soon as the tallowy or mottled appearance of the foot is observed, should be done at that jDart; the wound of the artery, and the opera- tion for securing the vessel above and below the wound, being > left unheeded. By this proceeding, when successful, the knee- joint is saved, whilst an amputation above the middle of the thigh is always very doubtful in its result. 29. "When mortification has taken ])lace from any cause, and has been arrested below the knee, and the dead parts show some sign of sej'jaration, it is usual to amputate above the knee. By not doing it, but by gradually separating and removing the dead parts, under the use of disinfecting nacdicaments and fresh air,11 a good stump may ultimately be made, the knee-joint and life being preserved, which latter is frequently lost after amputation under such circiunstances. 30. Hospital gangrene, when it unfortunately occurs, should be considered to be contagions and infectious, and is to be treated locally by destructive remedies, such as nitric acid, and the bivouacking or encamping of the remainder of the wounded, if it can be eifected, or their removal to the open air. 31. Poultices have been very often applied in gun-shot wounds, from laziness, or to cover neglect, and should be used as seldom as possible. 32. Chlorofonn [or ether] may be administered in all cases of amputation of the upper extremity and below the knee, and in all minor oj)erations ; which cases may also be deferred, with- out disadvantage, until the more serious operations are per- formed. 33. Amputation of the upper and middle parts of the thigh are to be done as soon as possible after the receipt of the injury. The administration of chloroform [or ether] in them, when there is much prostration, is doubtful, and must be attended to, and observed with great care; the question whether it should or should not be administered in such cases being undecided. 34. If tlie young surgeon should not feel quite equal to the ready performance of the various operations recommended, many of them requiring great anatomical knowledge and manual dex- terity, (and it is not to be expected that he should,) he sliould avail himself of every opportunity which may offer of perfecting his knowledge. [It is to be hoped that the medical officers of the army will aim to equal the surgery of the civil hospitals of the country, and that they will not only correct any errors into which their predecessors may have fallen, but excel them by the additions their opportunities will permit them to make, in the improve- ment of the great art and science of surgery,]THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. D. REPORT or A OO^IMITTEE APPOINTED BY RESOLUTION OF THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION TO PltliPAUE A PAPKR ON THE USE OF QUININE AS A PKUPIIYLACTIC AGALXST MALAIUOUS DISEASES. SECOND EDITION. PRINTED FOR CIRCULATION BT THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. 18G5.* TnE attention of The United States Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard nu'dical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach any thing that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to snrgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. Tlie following paper on tlie use of "Quinine as a Prophylactic against Malarious Diseases," belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by tlie Commission to the medical olBcers of our army now in the field. Feed. Law Olmsted, Washington. December, 1861. Secretary.QUININE AS A I'EOPllYLACTIC AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. As tlie Commission has already recommended the nse of Quinine as a preventive of malaiial disease, in one of its pub- lislied documents (Doe. No. 17", '• Rules for Preserving the Health (;f tlie Soldier," paragraph 25, issued July 13th, 18G1), it is assumed that the object of the present Iteport is to present a digest of the evidence u[»on which that r(;coiiim(:'iu1ation was f uinded, wiili the view of procui'ing its timely adoption and enforcement b}' the authorities in immediate charge of the health of the army. Tlie term malarial or miasmatic disease is applied to the several forms of Intermittent fever, popularly called chills, or ague, of Remittent fever, and, under certain restrictions, to the iliseases known as Continued and Typhoid fevers, as they occur in malarious districts of country : to a certain extent Dysentery nniy l)e also included in the list, and various moditications of other diseases, such as Catarrh, Rheumatism, and acute inter- nal inflamnuxtloMs, In short, there are few f hmus of acute dis- ease by which healthy individuals are liable to be attacked when ex[)orted habitiuUly to the influence of malarial poison, which are not modilied in some degi'ce by it, and tlH'rel)y brought within the remedial influence of those agents by wtii(-h nialarii)us diseases are controlled. Ijy lar the most powerful <if the remedies for tliis class of diseases is sulpliati,' (if (piinia, or rpiinine, the essential oi' active pi'incn])le of Pci'uvian bark; and the facts just stated explain the high vabu; attached to this drug in the western and s(uith-6 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTrO em portions of our couutrj, wliere diseases of malarial origin are most prevalent. Its curative properties ai-e recognized and highly esteemed in all pai'ts of the civilized world, and by physicians of every school. Happily, they are not confined to the cure of miasmatic diseases alone; in virtue of its tonic or strengthening power, Quinine is valuable in debility arising from many other causes, promoting the appetite and power of digestion, and increasing the vital forces. Unlike many ex- cellent medicines, it is destitute of noxious and poisonous qual- ities, and, unless rashly and injudiciously employed, never does serious harm ; nor does it act only as a temporary stimulant, leaving a condition of greater weakness after its immediate effects have passed away, but rather, like nutritious food, con- fers pei'iuanently increased strength and power of resisting disease. These facts, however, are known and used by all educated physicians, but there is one quality possessed by this valuable medicine which is not so generally appreciated, especially at the JSTorth, and which the Sanitary Commission desires to have recognized to the fullest possible extent for the benefit of our soldiers now in the field; and this is the power possessed by Quinine, when taken regularly in small quantities, of prevent- ing an attack of disease in a healthy person exposed to malaria. In order to estimate fully the value of this prophylactic or preventive property of quinine, which is styled by a recent English writer "a modern discovery," it will be useful to re- hearse a few well-established medical facts : a. Individuals nndoubtedly differ in degree of susceptibility, or in their liability to be attacked by miasmatic disease, but there is no ainount of natural vigor of constitution, or positive high health, which will confer immunity against the effects of the poison. b. The young are usually more liable to the disease than those of mature age. c. Poisoning from malaria is more liable to take place be- tween the hours of sunset and sunrise, and in those who are fasting, fatigued, or deprived of sleep.AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. T d. ^ft.cr exposure to miliaria, tlie attack of disease is not necessarily immediate; a period of inculxition, varying iVom six to t\\ eiity days, usually intervenes, and during this the indi- vidual may enjoy perfect health. The attack, when it occurs, may assume the form of Intermittent, or Remittent fever, or any of the other forms of miasmatic disease, varying in nature and degree of severity, according to the impressihility of the individual and the virulence of the poison ; or, the amount of poison imbibed may not have been sufficient to cause an ex- plosion of purely miasmatic disease, but only enough to im- press the miasmatic or paroxysmal type upon some intercur- rent malady occasioned by another cause. G. After long exposure to malaria, even tliougli no actual attack of sickness may have occurred, a debilitated condition of health is liable to arise, charactei'ized by a sallow complexion, diminished strength, and impoverished blood; this is known as malarial cachexia. Now, it is a well-established fact in the experience of Ameri- can physicians, that the daily use of a small rpiantity of quinine, say from three to six grains, in one or more doses, by those who are exposed to the danger of malarial poisoning, will in most instances prevent an attack of malarial disease, and that it will always render the disease milder, if it should occur. It will also ])revent the development of malarial cachexia.'" For tlK)se not familiar with this fact, there is ample evidence to be cited, not only in the ]inpular and professional practice of our country, but also froin foreign sources. We may refer to the well-known popularity of "bark and wine" as a "tonic" in unhealthy localities and seasons, in all parts of this country ; to tlie practice generally a<1opted in our mei'chant service tor the Isthmus of Panama, and in vessels trading with other un- liealthy ])orts, of taking quinine daily to avert attacks of fever, and to the frecpient employment of the same preventive during * The medicine may be talion in its simplest form as a powder, in a pill containing one or two grains, or dissolved in water, wine, or spirits. It is generally more accejitable to the soldier in the latter form, hence the recom- mendation of "quinine bitters."8 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC the last twenty years in unhealthy localities in tlie West and South by planters, for themselves, their families, their over- seers, and negroes. A communication kindly furnished by the Pi-esident of tlie Panama Railroad Company contains facts of much weight and interest: " Soon after my connection with the Panama Railroad Company, in 1853, my attention was directed to tlie unusual amount of sickness wliich prevailed among the crews of vessels visiting Aspinwall. On inquiry. I could not learn tliat any of the crews who remained in that port for several days together were wholly exempt from attacks of fever. And it irequently occurred that a large part of tliem would be prostrated, especially within a few days after leaving port. This state of things induced me to investigate the whole subject, with particular reference to providing a remedy for so serious an evil. I soon be- came satisfied that the remedy was to be lound in the regular, habitual use of quinine in moderate doses, for a few days prior to the arrival of vessels at As- pinwall, and subsequent to their departure, as well as during the time they might remain in port. " 1 accordingly took especial pains to impress my views upon all parties in. terested, so far as I had opportunity, and when, in 1855, the Panama Company established a line of sailing vessels of its own to run between this port (New York) and Aspinwall, I consulted with one of our intelligent physicians as to the best means to be employed to secure the faithful ajiplicatiou of the pro- posed remedy. Aware of the proverbial carelessness of sailors in regard to such matters, and the difficulty that might be encountered in efforls to make them take medicine, he recommended such a preparation of wine and quinine as, under the name oi 'ici/ie hitters' would not be unpalatable. " Such preparation was immediately provided, and placed on board of every vessel of the line, with printed directions as to the manner of using it, the caiitains also being instructed to insist upon its use, in accordance ^^•ith these instructions, by every man on board of tlieir vessels. " The result of this course exceeded oiir most sanguine expectations. From its very commencement a change for the better was seen, and during the Inst four years, in which seven vessels have been constantly employed in the trade, cases of sickness have rarely occurred—certainly not one case in ten, as com- pared with former times. The practice of using quinine, as above stated, is continued to the jircsent day, and so uniformly healthy are the crews of our vessels that the subject no longer excites our solicitude. " I would also remark, that tlie use of quinine by the oflicers and cmpioyeeti of the company on the Isthmus has been found very beneficial: and in connec- tion with tliis, and the clearing and settlement of the adjacent country, Asjnn- wall has become one of the healthiest tropical jHirts of which I liave any knowl- edge. " I am, dear Sir, with high resju'ct, " Your obed't servant, " VVm. H. Van BmtEN, M. D., kc, Sec " " DAVID HOADLEY.9 AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. The hio-liest Amei-ican authority on the maferia mcflica, Prof. Geo. B.Wood, M. D., of the Uiiiversity of Pennsylvania, expresses his opinion on tlie subject in the following hmguage : "Upon tiie same principles as those on which periodical dis- eases may be cui-ed, they may also be prevented by the sul- phate of quinia. There is no proi)hylactic measure against tlie miasmatic fevers at all comparable in cfticiency to the use of this medicine. It seems reasonable to supjjose that tlie same impression on the system which })reveiits the i-cturn of the paroxysms will prevent the occurrence of the first. Experience lias establislied the correctness of this inference."* From another cjnarter of our conntry we have the following evidence from a competent and reliable observer. Dr. IT. W. De Sanssure, of Charleston, S. C. : "I think that I have been able to collect a sufficient number of data to render the opinion plausible, if not conclusive, that quinine possesses the power of protecting the white man from attacks of intermittent and remittent fever, or its collatei'als, when exposed for even long periods to malarious influences; and, moreover, that its daily use is in no wise injurious to health, nor does its habitual use render the system insusceptible of its remedial powers." Among other cases, he relates the following in support of his views: " An overseer agreed to take charge of several rice plantations in one of the sickliest regions of rice culture, undertaking to spend the summer months on one of the plantations. lie made no inquiry as to the health of the one chosen as his residence—it was selected from its convenient locality. When warned of the danger of his residing there in summer, he said he would never have the fever. His confidence in his cajiacity to resist malarious disease seemed unlimited. The result fully justified this confidence. He lived ten years or more in that neighborhood, spending every summer on the plantation, varied only by an occasional visit to the healthy pine-land, where his family resided during the summer. visited his rice-fields without hesitation at an)' hour, day or night, that his business required. Ho never had an attack of fever during that time. I saw him after he had been there several years ; a finer specimen of robust health it would have been diflicult to find. * A treatise on Therapeutics and Pharmacology, or Materia Medica, by George H. Wood, M. D., late President of the Ame rican Medical Association ; Professor of Theory and Practice; of Medicine in the University of Pennsyl- vania ; senior physician of the Pennsylvania Hospital; one of the authors of the United States Dis|iensatory, kc, &c. I'hiladelphia, IHUl, Vol. I., p. 200.10 QUININE AS A PBOPHYLACTIC " It was ascortained, on inquiry, that it was his habit to take quinine daily, during the summer, before leaving his liouse ; the quantity he did not know, for he never weighed it. His entire and complete confidence in his ability to resist fever in so malarious a retrion is Btrong evidence that lie had been in the habit of using quinine, and was well satisfied of its prophylactic virtues. This case, in conj unction with the statements from the officers of the Niger expe- dition, would appear to prove that quinine may be used under exposure to ma- larious influences for an indefinite period, not only without compromising the general health of the individual, or injuring the constitution, but as surely protecting the system from the inroads of malarious disease." The same writer further states, tliat he was "called in Au- gust to see one of the contractors on the Charleston and Savan- nah Railroad, laboring under a very severe attack of remittent fever, contracted during the superintendence of his contract between the Ashepoo and Combahee rivers, notoriously a very unhealthy region. During his convalescence he informed me that he would have to return to his work on the road, where he had a large number of hands employed (150); that they were negroes brought from healthy regions in jSTorth Carolina, and he expected all of them to be more or less sick, as they were entirely unaccustomed to a malarious climate. I advised him to take quinine daily himself, and to give it to all his hands, white or black. Late in the fall I met him in the city; he looked healthy and well. He thanked me for the advice 1 had given him ; told me he had cari-ied up some pounds of quinine; had used it himself daily, and compelled all his em- ployees to take it also; that he himself had never had another attack of fever; that his health was better than it had ever been, and that not a single one of the 150 hands he employed had been attacked by fever. In fact, he said : 'The only case of sickness I have had was in a negro who had come from North Carolina sick.' In April, ISiO, the writer, then an assistant surgeon in the United States army, was detached from the staff of the late Gen. Worth, at Tampa Bay, Florida, for duty at a military post in the interior (Fort King), where a serious outbreak of mias- matic disease had just occurred. The stock of quinine on hand * American Journal of ISIcdical Sciences, January, 18C1, from Charleston Medical Journal and Review, July, 18C0.AGAINST MALARIOUS DISKASES. 11 was limited, and the su])ply luicertaiii, and evei-j man at the post was liaviiig liis turn of disease. To meet tlie emei'ij;ency, a quantity of quinine hitters was made in the foUowini;' man- ner: Tlie half of a barrel of whiskey was drawn off into a second barrel, and they were both filled with the baric of the dog-wood* and wild cherry, obtained from the neighitoring hammock, and dried in the sun. A few ounces of quinine were added to each l)arrel, with the dried peel of a dozen native oranges. From one to two ounces of this preparation was given to every man at the post, morning and evening, with the effect, in a very short time, of rendering the relapses of fever less frequent and mihler in their character, lengtlioiiing the interval between the attacks, and in many instances, pi'c- venting tlieir occurrence entirely during its use. It may be inferred from the above statements that the i)re- ventive use of quinine is an economical measui'e, saving not oiil}' the healtli and services of the men, but reducing also tlie expenditure of the medicine, for the use of a very small (pnui- tity daily will prevent an attack of disease, for the cure of which a quantity much larger in the aggregate would proljably be required. Uur excellent colleague, Di'. J. S. Newberry, has had lai-ge experience in the preventive employment of <piiiiine against fevers on the Isthmus of Panama, and in various localities in the "Western country, and gives his testimony strongly in favor of its use. He is of opinion, however, that the constant use of the remedy diminishes its powei-, and that it is advisable to cease taking it at intervals; for exam])le, to take it for two weeks, and then omit ibr one week. On this point, as we shall shortly see, the weight of evidence is rather against this oi)inion. In one of the IJritish Navy Medical Reports—Isn. XV., " 0)1 the lyroplujlactic ivfluence of quinine,'" by Alexander Bryson, M. D., E,. N.—the following statements occur rf- * The bark of the dog-wood [Coriius Florida) is one of the Ix^st substitutes fur Peruvian J3ariv. The wild-cherry baric (Pninus Virgiiiiana) is a well- known tonic. t Medical Times and Gazette, London, January, 1854.12 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC "It lias long been a standing rule in the Navy, enjoined by tlie 9th Article of the Surgeon's Instructions, tliat when men are to be sent on shore in tropical climates, to procure wood and water, or on other laborious duties, tlie sur- geon, if he consider it advisable, is to recommend for each man, ])reviously to his leaving the ship, in the morning, a drachm of powdered bark (Peruvian), in half a gill of wine, and the like quantity of wine after the mixture ; or, if there be no wine on board, one-eighth of a gill of spirits, mixed with the fourth of a gill of water, is to be used in lieu of it; and the same proportion of each is to be given to the men on their return to the ship in the evening." As evidence of the beneficial influence of this measure, the following instances are related : " Twenty men and one officer were employed on shore for one day at Sierra Leone; to the former, bark, mixed ^vith wine, was given; but the latter re- fused to take it. He was the only person of the whole party who was subse- quently attacked with fever. Again, two boats' crews were detached from the Hydra to examine the river Slicrbro. They remained away for a fortnight, and during the whole time took bark and wine as directed by the instrtictions, yet, though the: locality is a most dangerous one, not one case of fever follo\'\-ed ; but another boat's crew, who were absent for two days onl}-, iii the same lo- cality, and at the same time, who did not take bark, were all attacked exceiit the officer in command of the boat." In a report on the African station, in 1847, Dr. Brvson feel- ing "the most perfect faith in tlie preventive influence of qui- nine, and trusting to its well-known antagonism to the recur- rence of periodic diseases," suggested, for obvious reasons, that it should be employed as a prophylactic in the Navy instead of bark, " and tliat its nse should be continued, not only while the men were exposed in unhealthy localities, hwt for at leant fourteen days after they returned on hoard, in oi'der that the antagonistic influence of the medicine might be kept up until the incubative period of the disease had c.x]iired. The suggestion was adopted, and the j'esults, upon the whole, are most satisfac- tory. A strong spirituous solution of a//io/'j}/iou.'^ quinine'^ was mixed with several pipes of wine, in the pi-ojiortion of four gi'ains of the salt to an ounce of the wine."' This preparaiioii. * Amorphous quinine is obtained from the "mother waters," after the pure quinine has crystalli/.ed. It is to be obtained from the manufacturers of quinine, and enters into the conqiosition of several |)atent medicines which have a repu- tation for curing agues. It is much cheaper than pure quinine, and a littlo more than half its streiiglli.AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. 13 under the name of " quinine wine," was added to the medical stores of the cruisers employed on tlie African station, and the following extracts from the repoi'ts of the surgeons in charge of the several ships afibrd evidence of the effects which were observed to follow its use : " Wliile coaling at Sierra Leone, writes Surgeon Sibbald, the -weather was very wet, and on their several duties both men and officers were much exposed to the rain. An extra allowance of grog and quinhio was given to each man, and continued afterwards for a day or two to such as reiiuircd it. Mr. , however, placed no faith in its preventive influence, and would nut take it, and he alone suliered an attack of fever, which proved fatal. "A boat's crew, belonging to the Pluto, were employed for twenty-five (hiys up the Congo. The wine was regularly supplied, but it caused one of the men to vomit, and therefore he discontinued its use ; he was the first to sulfer from fever. Only one other case occurred among the crew. " During our stay in tlfe river Lagos, quinine wine was regularly offered to the mL'n, morning and evening; all took it, I believe, except two midshipmen and two seamen belonging to the galley. These foiu- persons subsequently each suffered a severe attack of fever. While in the whole fcjrce, consisting of upwards of 2,'JO men, there occurred only a few other cases of trifling impoj-t-. ance. (Report of Mr. Heath, Surgeon of the Teazer.) " Thirty-six men belonging to the Water- Witch were emjiloyed in the attack on Ijagos ; they were in the river four or five days, and, with the exception of three, all took quinine wine while there, and for fourteen days after they left it. Of the whole number five only were attacked with fever, namely, the three men who did not take the wine, and other two, who most imprudently ex- posed themselves to the eun, and bathed while much heated by violent exer- cise. (J. Henderson, Esq., M. D.) " On the morning of the 25th of November, seventy-seven men of the ship went up the river Lagos to attack the town. Before starting, every officer and man was ordered to Uike a glass of quinine wine, and a sufficient quantity was put into the boats to repeat the same at night. All, to the best of my knowl- edge, took it, with the exception of Mr. D., master's assistant, who rather plumed himself on having escaped taking a dose ofphysii-. This young gentle- man, on the 10th of December, just a fortnight after, was seized with a violent, attack of remittent fever; and, of the whole number who entered the river, he is the only one who, up to this date (the 7th of January), has been attacked. '— (F. StiqMirt, Eitq., Savgeon.) In another of the (British) Kavy Medical Reports (No. XXX.), "On the Endemic Fevers of Africa, and Prophylactic Use of Quinine," l)y L. J. IIavne, Esq., Assistant Surgeon R. N., the following passage occurs:- * London Medical Timce and Gazette, March. 180i,14 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC " The following instances will tond to show the benuficial influence of qui- nine, as a preventive in coast-fever. The boats were dispatched with thirty two officers and men up the llio Ponga, and remained in the river for two days and nights; one ounce of quinine wine (four grains to the ounce) was given daily to each person ; between the twelfth and fourteenth day after leaving the river, four slight cases of fever occurred, which readily yielded to treatment. In an- other instance the boats were away up the Lagoon, at Lagos, with thirty-four officers and men, for seven or eight days; a dose of quinine was given to each etery other day only, and seventeen of the tliirty-four were afterw ards attacked with severe remittent fever. Again, one officer and one man were living on shore at Sierra Leone, for eight days, awaiting the arrival of a man-of-war; neither took any quinine, and ten days after they arrived on board their shiji, both had remittent fever. " It is not to be supposed that quinine will prevent the occurrence of fever in every case, but in a sufficient number to be of the utmost benefit; and the fever occurring in those cases in which it has been employed as a preventive, is sure to be of little moment." From these quotations, which miglit be extended, if space permitted, it is evident tliat the power of quinine as a preven- tive of malarial disease, is recognized in the British naval ser- vice; there is also abundant evidence on record of its acknowl- edgment by the army authorities. In a Report on the Topography of the Military Stations in British Guiana,'' by Surgeon-major 11. C. KiiAjjK, of the Army, the following recommendation occurs:* " As a prophylactic measure, I woidd urge the advisability of administering quinine to the men, more particularly dui'ing the rainy seasons and the preva- lence of an epidemic." During the preparations for hostilities in China, in 1851), a series of suggestions were submitted to the consideration of the Minister of State for War, by the Director-general of the Army Medical Department, amongst which we find the fol- lowing : "4. That a stock of quinine wine be provided, in order that a ration of it may be given to the men (at the recommendation of the principal medical olK- cer), previous to and during the unhealthy months, or w hen the soldiers are required t ) proceed up the rivers, or on being encamped in the vicinity of * Statistical, Sanitary, and Medical Reports for the year 1859 (Army Medical Department), presented to both Uouses of Parliament, by command of her Majesty. London, 18G1, p. 243.AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. 15 marsliy ground. A medical officer should be present wlicn tlie quinine \vine is issued, and to witness tlie same being drunk by the men."* Under tlie new Medical Regulations for Field Service in the I'ritish army, a .sanitary otiicer to the exjieditiunaiy ai-niy (to China), to be attaclied to the Qnarterniaster-generars Depart- ment, was selected and furni.shed with instructions for the per- formance of his si)ecial duties. Of these instructions, j)ara- graphs 7 and 8 are as follows: " Should tlie force have to advance through malarious districts, or at un- healthy seasons, you will indicate the best means of mitigating or preventing attacks of disease on the march or advance. "With reference to the above object, it will be very requisite that the men should have some refreshment, as coffee, before marching. And, from the very favorable result of its use in the China command, quinine wine is to be recom- mended for use during the months when fc'ver and bowel com])laints prevail, or at any epidemic seasons: and of this prophylactic each man should have a daily ration, to be taken in the presence of a responsible officer."f As evidence of the views and opinions on the subject held by the medical officer highest in rank in the British army, and of the provisions made for the amjde supply of the British army in the Crimea with quinine to be employed as a proj)hy- lactic, the following letter to the Inspector-general of Hospitals in the Crimea is subjoined "Army Medical Depaktment, 27</i Julu, 1855. " Sm: With reference to previous letters on the subject of administering quinine, and other preparations of bark, as prophylactic remedies, I have the honor again to draw your attention to the matter. " From all I have learnt, I am persuaded that the number of cases of fever would be diminished by such a course. So convinced am I, especially by th(! results of the experience of naval medical officers, of the benefits arising from the prevention plan, when followed in localities in which remittent and in- termittent fevers are likely to prevail, that I have taken care to provide ample supplies of quinine in anticipation of every possible demand for that article. " Having now at command sufficient of this drug, specially provided for that * Sanitary Reiwrt for 1859, ut supra, pp. 179-180. t British Army Rejiorts for 1859, p. 181. \ ReiKirt of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the regulations affecting tlu! sanitary commission of the army, the organization of military hospitals, and the treatment of tho sick ami wounded Presented to Par liament, &c., 1858. App. 79, p. 71.QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC 16 service, to furnish fiv(^ grains per diom to every member of a Ibrce of 35,000 men, I beg you will take such measures as you think proper, with a view to induce tlie medical officers to employ that remetly, in the hope that it may prove useful in warding off attacks of fever, &c. " I have the honor to be, &c., &c., (Signed) " A. SMITH, Director-general. " Dk. Hall, &c., &c." The evidence collected from the recorded experience of iu- telligent and reliable travellers and explorers in niahirial re- gions, and from tlie British merchant service, fnllj confirm tiie facts derived from military and naval reports. The quotations appended, fairly illustrate its general tenor. The remarks on African fever in the second quotation are recorded in conse- quence of their truth and force, and because they demonstrate its identity with the miasuiatic diseases of our own country. " Of the measures, as hygienic, moat were of a general nature, the only more specific ones being the free use of quinine. The amount of sickness was very little, so that, except with the scorbutic cases. Dr. Ilutchiuson's really medical duties were not onerous. Of the Europeans, the most exposed to climatical influences were Mr. Harcus, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. May, and myself; Mr. Harcus was chiefly exposed dm-ing the day, and suffered only from frequent headaches firom the effects of the sun's rays. Mr. Guthrie, besides undergoing daily an immense amount of fatigue, slept regularly on deck, and, nevertheless, escaped entirely. Mr. ]SIay and I went ashore whenever opportunities occurred, and as often by night as by day : we had frequently to land in swamps and other un- healthy spots, yet Mr. May had only one short and not severe febrile attack : I, in addition, always slept on deck, and was roused regularly at twelve o'clock, and at three in the morning, for the purpose of recording meteorological ob- servations ; but while in the river I had constant health. I mention the.se cir- cumstances to show that, under i)ro]ier precautions, Eurojieans may not only live quietly, but even commit with impunity what some years ago wovdd have been considered indiscretions."—Bdikies Explurin(j Voyage, p. 328. " It will be sufficient hero to say, that African f(5ver has nothing specific about it, that it is certainly not sui ge/ierin, and that it is merely an aggravated form of the disease known in this country as ague. "The various divisions into continued, remittent, and intermittent, are only calculated to puzzle and to mislead : they refer to degrees, and not to actual differences; and these forms gradually, but surely, merge into each other. In its mildest form, the fever is intermittent, that is to say. between the paroxysms intervals of health occur; more aggravated, the comj)laint becomes remittent, meaning, that between the febrile accessions the symptoms only remit,but do not ftltogi>ther di.sapi'ear : in its greatest severity the disease is 7'/a.v/-rontinued, or to the unpractised eye seems to be devoid of paroxysmal changes, but to prf)-17 AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. cced with an undeviating deadly rareer. But in all of thcs:^ the- poison, tho original cause of the malady, iw essentially the same, and the results depend partly on constitutional causes, partly on the amount and virulence oi the poison imbibed. "The same amount of poison will, as is the case with alcohol, atlert two jjcrsons inhaling it in very difterent degrees. The disease is what is termed by medical men ' antiperiodic,'and the remedies required arc'anliperiodics,' of wliich the best known and the most eflRcient is quinine. This may be given as soon as the complaint shows itself; and the sooner the better, as it is the main stay of the sutierer ; of course, various occasional symptoms may occur during its progress, which will require to be treated according to circumstances. " But the great modern improvement is the discovery that quinine not only cures but that it actually prevents; and that by taking this invaluable drug while iu unhealthy localities, persons may escape totally unscathed. Tlie best form to use for this purpose is quinine wine, of which half a glass should b(^ taken in the morning, and repeated, if requisite, iu the afternoon. " Experience likewise proves that if endemic fever seizes a person who has been using quinine as a [iropliylactic. he will escape much more easily, and have a milder and more manageable attack than another who has not been so employing it."—Bnikie'n Exploring Voyage. App. 0., hy the Surgeon of the Expedition. " From the day before we crossed the bar, in the Pleiad's voyage, I com- menced giving quinine sohition to all the Europeans on boaril. Not having a sufficient quantity of the medicated wine, I dissolved the sulphate (of (luiiiine) iu like proiiortions in water, adding two glasses of wine to my solution. Some of the officers at first grumbled in taking it, and drank it with a very sour face ; but soon all, with one exception, came to be so anxious for it, that had I not made a rule to put the bottle and glass over the engine-room every morn- ing at daybreak, they would be down at my bedside for the dose. I'he man whom I could not train into taking it was one of our second mates, who in the course of our voyage had a few severe attacks of remittent fever, accompanied with delirium. ■* * * I think the fact wliich I am about to state here will answer the followang paragraph in Dr. Bryson's suggestions :—' Whether or not the influence of quinine on the system, like that of other medicines, be- comes lessened by long-continued use, we have no knowledge: possibly the question may be determined during the present expedition.' I had it dis- pensed daily for the Europeans imdcr my charge, from the day before we crossed the bar to three weeks after our return to Fernando Po, a period of one hundred and forty days. In no single case could I recognize its f(rilure ; when some of our officers, who from not taking it punctually, got slight at- tacks of remittent fever, the accession always yielded to appropriate renu'dies,. with doses of quinine increased to ten grains. The sym])toms subdued, I re- turned to the original dose of quinine, observing after each occui-rcnce the precaution to lecture them on their irregularity in taking it, ]:ointing out its- benefits, and impressing them with the fact that our return through the delta would Ijc at th(; most unhealthy ])eriod of the year. Despite of these attacks,, and of our proloiigi'd stay u)j the river, we had the same number and the same18 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC men on our return to Fernando Po tliat we had on Vioard when leaving it on the 8th of July." The preservation of their health he attributes to several hygienic precautions, the princijjal of which was " to niy having induced the Europeans to take quinine solution daily, without making any fuss, for its pal- pable necessity."—" Iinpresxioiis of Wcntcrn Africa." By T. J. Eutchinson, Esq., Her Majesty's Consul for the Bight of Biafra. Longman, 1858, p. 229. By enforcing the systematic use of quinine, as a prophylac- tic, upon all the persons in their employment, the i-emarkable result was secured by the Messrs. Laird, wliich is set forth in the following letter from a member of that enterprising firm, whom the writer saw professionally during his recent visit to this country : " 1 Leadenhall Street, Loj,-don, "2Gth July, 1861. "DearSir: Referring to my interview with yoti last month, and to the effects of quinine in African fever, I now inclose memoranda on that subject.* My firm of Laird, Fletcher & Co., Liverpool, are the managing agents for a line of steamers to the coast of Africa, carrying H. M. mails once a month from Liverpool, to thirteen different ports on the coast of Africa, lying between the Island of Madeira and Fernando Po. These vessels run about 10,000 miles out and home in ten weeks, and since the establishment of the line, about seven years ago, no European lias lost his life in connection with the scrrice, except from causes which might have produced his death in any other part of the world. " During the past five years m_v late brother (Macgregor Laird) established steam communication with the interior of Africa, by means of the river Niger and its tributaries, making several ascents of the river during the rainy season when its waters were high. None of the Europeans connected with these expeditions have died from fever. " I have this month sent an exploring steamer up the same river to return in September, and do not anticipate any loss of life. * « * " I am, very truly yours, "MTkL LAIRD. " Dr. Van Buren, &c., &c." Sir J. Emerson Tennant (Ceylon, vol. 1, p. 76) gives his ex- ])crience as follows: " In traversing districts suspected of malaria, experience has dictated certain ■()r(^caulions, wliich, with ordinary iirudcnce and firmness, serve to neutralize th(! risk—retiring puuctually at sunset, generous diet, moderate stimulants, and the daily use of (juinine both before and after exposure. These » * * * * This memorandum contained a printed abstract of experience on the pre- ventive use of quinine (from which the preceding quotations were extracted), prej)arcd for the guidance of persons in the employ of the company.AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. 10 liavo been proved, in long: journeys, to !ie valuable prophylactics against fever and the pestilence of the jungle." •• It is found that these alkaloids, given in certain doses, not only cure the disease, but that if administered to those exposed to the malarious cxhalati(jns. tliey prevent the attacks of tlie disease altogether."—Enajclopniia Brilnnniea, Art. '■ Intermitteiit Feirr." "From the day of my arrival on the coast I took quinine morning and evening, in doses of three or four grains. This I have found a good ]ire- ventive. * * « * " During my whole stay in Africa I took from time to time, even when in perfect health, doses of quinine wine as a prophyhictic or preventive against malaria."—Bu Chaillu's Equatorial Africa, ch. 18, p. 369. lu eonclnsioii, it ma}' be fairly assumed, even from tlie evi- dence thus imperfectly and hastily collated, that the power of quinine as a preventive of miasmatic disease, is fully established as a medical fact; and that it can be employed, not only with entire safety, but with the greatest advantage, even to the saving of life, by healthy persons exposed to malarial influences. Viewed in the light of humanity, as well as of economy—both of men and money—the prevention of disease is of far greater importance than its cure, and your Committee venture to ex- ])ress the opinion that intelligent and judicious action on this important subject, at the hands of the proper authorities, would save much sickness and many valuable lives during the present campaign. On behalf of the Committee. Wm. H. Van Buken, Chairman. At a meeting of the Committee of Inquiry of the Sanitary (k>mmission, September 80th, 1S61, it was Re-wlrcd, Tliat the Report of the Committee on the use of quinine as a pro phylacticbe printed as a document of the Commission, and put into immediate circulation, especially among th(! Surgeons of the Army and Navy, and that copies be sent to the Surgeon-general and to all the heads of De[)artraents. Rcsolrerl, That th(! Secretar_v of War be urged to draw the special attention of the iNledical Bureau to the subject, and to the conclusions of this Report, and that he be rcsjicctfully advised, if approving the Report, to instruct the Surgeon- general to place "quinine wine," or "bitters," among the articles which may be drawn by orcbnary requisition by the Medical Officers of tlve Army. ReHolmd, That the President and Secretary, with Dr. Wood, be a committee to carry tliese resolutions into effect. H. W. BELLOWS, Chairman.THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. E. REPORT OP A COM ^vl I T TEE APPOINTED isy THE UNITED STATES SANTFAIIY COMMISSION TO PBEPAKE A PAPEK ON TIIK VALUE OF VACCINATION IN ARMIES. THIRD EDITION. PRINTED FOR CIRCULATION BY THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. 18G5.The attention of Tlio United States Sanitary Commission has been directed to tlie fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in tlie field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place witliiu their roach any thing that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical stafif, of a series (.)f brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. Tlie following paper on the Value of Vaccination in Armies" belongs to this series, and is rosjiectfully recomii'.ended by the Commission to the medical officers of our army now in the field. Fked. Law Olmsted, Washington. December, 1861. Secretary.I I I IIVACCINATION IN ARMIES. In view of the possible occurrence of smallpox as an epi- demic in our camps, and of the well-established fact of its great contagiousness, even under the most favorable circumstances, tlie question of protection against its ravages commended itself, with great propriety, to the " Sanitary Commission." At their i-equest the undersigned have prepared a short digest of the more recent authorities upon the subject of protection, which, with the sanction of the " Commission," they respectfully sub- mit to the medical officers in the service of the government. It is unnecessary to enter into any history of vaccination; that, it is presumed, is familiar to all to whom this paper is ad- dressed ; but the question of its protective influence and the various circumstances modifying it, together with the results of revaccination in large bodies of men, may perhaps be profit- ably discussed. The fact cannot be concealed that a feeling of doubt has arisen in the minds of some (chiefly non-professional persons, it is true) in regard to the efficacy and protective power of vaccination, together with an ill-defined fear that some malign influence may through its agency be introduced into the bodies of those receiving it. To such the strongest argument that can be presented, and the unanswerable one, is that which, in the words of Jenner, "is engraved with the l)oint of the lancet." It may not be out of place, however, to recall the analogy, it not similarity, of the disease which prevails among several of the lower animals and in man, and its communicability and protective influence from one to the other. The " grease" in6 VACCfNATIOK IN ARMIES the horse and the vaccine disease or cowpox ai-c believed to be the same disease with smallpox in man. And as one attack of smallpox is known to be an almost certain protection against subsequent attacks, so may the artificial production of a modi- fied smallpox in man present an immunity from further visita- tions. "It is well known," says Mr. A. B. Steele," "that Jenner was strongly impressed with the conviction tliat cow- pox is neither more nor less than a mild form of smallpox, and this prediction has been completely verified by subsequent observations." In the report of the Yaecination Committee of the British Medical Association,f the following conclusions, drawn from the information derived from various sources, may be found : First. That it has been proved that cattle, in many ages and in difi^'erent countries, have been aft'ected with smallpox. Secondly. That the disease among the infei'ior animals has simultaneously existed with the smallpox in man, and pursued its victims through every country of the globe. Thirdly. That it appeared among the cattle in England in 1T45, and again in 1770, and continued its ravages up to ISOO ; and that the local remains of this epizootic occasionally still show themselves with considerable severity. Fourthly. When the disease appears among the inferior ani- mals in a malignant form, it produces, by inoculation, a disease of a similar severity in man. Fifthly. That as man has received this affection from the cow, so likewise has the cow received it from man. Sixthly. The direct inoculation of the cow with human smallpox has produced a mihl and mitigated disease, and that such a disease reproduced by inocuhition in man, accords entirely in its character, its progress, and its protective influ- ence, with the variola vaccinia, as described l)y Dr. tienner, thus irresistibly proving his fundamental proposition, that cowpox and smallpox are not bona fide dissimilar, but identical, and that the vaccine disease is nut the preventive of smallpox, but * Liverpool Med. Cliir. Jour., July, 1858. f Trans., vol. viii.7 VACCINATION IN Aim IKS smallpox itself, the virulent and contagions disease being a malignant variety. The late Samuel Forry, M.D., of New York, formerly of the United States army, remarks: "That the opinion has received a very remarkable corroboration in the recent experiments of Mr. Ceely, of England, which seem to prove that not only may the cow be inoculated with variolous matter, but it may thus be converted into vaccine. Two experiments made by Dr. Thiele, of Kasaii, in Russia, appear to confirm the same result. In 1836 he inoculated some cows on the udder with the matter of smallpox, which produced vesicles bearing all the characters of the true vaccine vesicle in those animals. During seventy-five successive transmissions in the human subject of the vaccine virus thus produced, it appeared always to retain its normal character. In 1838, M. Thiele repeated this experiment with the same success."f The subject of vaccination, whether in civil or in military life, may be considered under thi-ee heads : 1. Does vaccination (ifford positive protection, to those exposed to the variolous con- tagion? 2. Is that protection permanent., or is it modified hy any circumstances ? 3. If not permanent, is revaccinaiion a preventive of the disease? 1. Does vaccinat ion afford positive protection to those exposed to variolous contagion ? In considering this first question we are struck with the vast amount of evidence which has lieen accumulated in its favor. It finds no parallel in any other scientific investigation. Tiie committee have endeavored to select such only as seemed most * Strong evidence in support of this proposition is found in the fact that rat- tle who were put to g-raze in a field where the bedclothes of smallpox patients were exposed to the air, contracted the disease and presented not only the char- acteristic eruiition, but well-marked constitutional symptoms. (Wilson on Dis- caxen of the, Skin, 4th Am. cd., p. 45:3.) Dr. Waterhouse, of Cambridge, Mass., in a letter to Dr. Jenncr, details the communication of the disease to cows by the hands of milkers who were sufiering from variola; and Dr. Sonderlaud, of Bremen, communicated the. smallpox contagion to cows by C(5vering them with sheets between which persona fatally alfectijd with smallpox had lain. f Boylston Prize Essay.VACCINATION IK ARMIES. 8 conclusive, and have drawn largely from both domestic and foreign sources. The late Dr. S. Forrj, in the Boylston Prize Essay, 18-i4, says, that, " as respects the protecting power of vaccination against smallpox, it is, when perfect^ as complete a protection as any other prophylactic known to man." The report of the committee of the Medical Society of Philadelphia, by Drs. C. J. Coxe, Condie, and C. D. Meigs, contains the remarkable fact, that during the prevalence of a most malignant and fatal smallpox in 1827, but one w^ell- ascertained death from that disease, among 80,000 vaccinated, came to tlie knowledge of the committee. Drs. J. Bell and J. K. Mitchell* report that of 248 cases of variola and varioloid treated at tlie Smallpox Hospital, 155 were unprotected, of whom 85 died; 64 were vaccinated, of whom but a single one died ; 9 were inoculated, of whom 3 died; and of the 13 whose condition was unknown, none died.f In an epidemic which prevailed from 1825 to 1827, in Co- penhagen, of those who had been vaccinated 428 were attacked; and in 2H of these all the symptoms of genuine variola were evinced, but only two of them died.:}: In Ilolstein, from 1801 to 1822, 234,959 were subjected to vaccination, and only two individuals, even two years subse- quent to this, had during all that time been affected with smallpox. In the kingdom of Denmark, during the same period, only one individual among 447,605 vaccinated had been attacked by modified variola. Dr. G. B. Wood§ says, that "vaccination afibrds the best attainable security to life, greater even than that accruing from a previous attack of smallpox ; that, M-ith due care, it will serve as an eflectual safeguard in individual cases almost with- out an exception. In the course of my practice, though I have seen much of tlie disease, I have lost but one patient after vaccination, and in that instance death occurred, not from the violence of the varioloid disease, which was mild, but from * N. A. ]\rcd. and Surp. .Touni., v<il. ii., ]S'2G. t Bell and Stokc's Pmclico. X Forry. § Practice, vol. i., 410.9 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. the supervention of inflanimation of the brain, consequent on the jDeculiar state of tlie patient's constitution at tlic time. Thus it appears tluit if the protection afforded b}' vaccination is not perfect, it is superior to any other." Dr. John Davy, Inspector-general of Army Hospitals,* pre- sents some valuable statistics in relation to the comparative mortality of the native population of Malta and the military, among whom smallpox had been introduced by 11. M. S. Asia, by which it ap^jears that the mortality among those " not vac- cinated" was 1 in 4.7 ; among those " suj>posed to have been vaccinated," 1 in 2o.-l:; among those "well vaccinated," 1 in 15.6 ; and lastly, among those attacked a second time by small- pox, 1 in 10.8. The higher mortality among those supposed to have been vaccinated, Dr. Davy explains by the su})posi- tion that the majority of the former may have belonged to the infantile age. " xVs regards the general efiect of vaccina- tion in its influence both as affording protection from small- pox to a considerable extent, and mitigating its severity when not preventing the attack, the facts given are clear and satisfac- tory. It is a curious circumstance that the jyrojJortion of those who died after a second attach of smaUjJOX was, as has been already pointed out, greater than in the instances of those who had the disease after vaccination'' The comparative exemption of the British troops serving in Malta is another evidence of the protective influence of vaccination. Dr. Davy says, further, that " the native population (in Malta) in 1830 was estimated at 100,839 persons; amongst whom, it appears, from preced- ing returns, 1 in every 12.1 was attacked with the disease, and 1 in every 85 died ; but amongst the military, including their wives and children, the proportion attacked was 1 in ISS, and the mortality was only 1 in 682." The petition of Mr. J. F. Marson in support of the " Yaccin- ation Bill,"f before the British Parliament in 1856, after de- claring that he "has been for upwards of twenty years the resident surgeon of the Smallpox and Yaccination Hospital in * Notes and Observations in the Ionian Islands and Malta, &c. Loud., 1841. t Laucut, Aug. yo, 1S5G.10 VACCINATION IN AKMIKS. London," states that the mortality from smallpox in i\\QunvaG- cinated, of cases taken generally, is tJivrty-fivejper cent., but of children under five years of age, it is fifty ])er cent.; and of those who recover, a great many suffer permanent disfigure- ment, some loss of sight, and others have their health greatl}' damaged. The mortality, on the contrary, amongst the vaccinated, attacked by smallpox, is seven per cent., taken generally; but among those who may be characterized as the hadly vaccinated, it is fifteen per cent. Amongst those, on the other hand, who may be considered to be well vaccinated, that is to say, who have four or more good vaccine cicatrices, the mortality is less than one jper cent. In the report of the " Smallpox and Vaccination Committee of the Epidemiological Society" of London, presented to the British Parliament in 1853, is collected a mass of evidence abundantly sustaining the protective influence of vaccination. As resiilts are most desirable in a communication like the present, the following statistics collected by the Society are presented : 1st. To prove the influence of vaccination in England: out of every 1,000 deaths in the half-century from 1730 to 1800, there were of smallpox 96. Out of every 1,000 deaths in the half-century from 1800 to 1850, there were of smallpox 35. 2d. To prove the influence of vaccination on the Continent: in various German States suflicient evidence can be obtained to show that, before vaccination was used, out of every 1,000 deaths, there occurred from smallpox 66.5; after vaccina- tion, 7.26. 3d. To prove that in countries where vaccination is most perfectly carried out, smallpox is least mortal: {a.) In this country (England), where vaccination is volun- tai'y, and frequently neglected, the deaths from all causes being 1,000, the deaths from smallpox in the following towns are as follows; London, 16; Birmingham, 16.6; Leeds, 17.5; Eng- land and Wales, 21.9; Paisley, 18 ; Edinburgh, 19.1; Perth. 25; Glasgow, 36; Dublin, 25.66; Galway, 35; Limerick, 41; (Jonnaught, 60 ; all Ireland, 49.VACCINATIOX IN ARMIKS. 11 {h.) In other countries, where vaccination is more or less compulsory, the deaths from smalli^ox in the foUowino- towns are as follows: Westphalia, (I; Saxony, S.83 ; lihenish prov- inces, 3.75; Pomerania, 5.25 ; Lower Austria, <; ; Bohemia, 2 : Lonibardy, 2; Venice, 3.2; Sweden, 2.7; Bavaria, 4. By referring to the accompanying table i)repared by-Mr. Haiie, and found in Mr. J. Simon's report,* the past and ].i'es- cnt ravages of the disease may be seen at a glamre, and two series of facts Ijc noticed. "1st. How many persons in each million of population died annually of smallpox, Ix'farc the use of vaccination ; and, 2d. ilow many persons in each nnlli(tn of ])opulation have annually died of smallpox since the use of vaccination." The author draws the conclusion, as the reader may also do, between the case of Sweden, in the twenty-eiglit years before vaccination, and forty years soon afterwards: "During the earlier period, there used to die of smallpox, out of each million of the Swedish population, 2,nr)(t victims an- nually ; dui-ing the later period, out of each million of po]>ula- tion, the smallp(;\ deaths have annually averaged 15S."' " Or, com[)are two periods in Westphalia : during the years l776-'80, tiae smallpox death-rate Avas 2,0-1:3; during the thirty-five years, LSl6-'50, it w^as onlj' 114." "Or, taking two metropol- itan cities: yon rind that, in Copenhagen, for the half-century 1751-1800, the smallpox death-rate was 3,128, but for the next half-century only 2>>6 ; and still better, in Berlin, where for twenty-four years preceding the general use of vaccination, the smallpox death-rate had been 3,422, for foity years subse- quently it has heen only 170. In other words, the Jatality of smallpox, in Co])enliagen, is but an eleventh of what it was; in Sweden, a little over a thirteentli; in Berlin, and in lai-ge parts of Austria, but a twentieth ; in Westphalia, but a twenty- lifth. In the last-named instance there now die of smallpox but four persons where formerly there died a hnndri'il."" (P. xxui.) J!y reference to the second table, it will be seen that in a mnnher of places observed, the death-rate varies amongst * Papors rclaliiiir to tlu^ History and Practici/ nf Vaccination. Presented tO' liotli liouses of Parlianii III by connnand of her Majesty. London, ISoT.VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 12 the vaccinated from an inappreciably small mortality to 12i- per cent.; that amongst the unprotected, it ranges from 14^ to 53f per cent. These statistics show that the adoption of vaccination has been followed by a reduction of the smallpox mortality to a tenth and a twentieth of its former magnitude. Approximate average annual death-rate by smallpox per million of living population. Before intro- Afler intro- Terms of years respectinK which Tfrritory diiction of diiction of pnrticulars are given. ' vaccination. vaccination, 1777-180G, and 1807-1850.. .Austria, Lower 2,484 340 1777-180G, and 1807-1850... " Upper & Saltsburg 1,421 501 1777-1806, and 1807-1850...Styria 1,052 446 1777-1806, and 1807-1850.. .lUyria 518 244 1777-1806, and 1807-1850.. .Trieste 14,046 182 1777-1806, and 1807-1850.. .Tyi-ol and Voralberg 911 170 1777-1806, and 1807-1850...Bohemia 2,174 215 1777-1806, and 1807-1850...Moravia 5,402 255 1777-1806, and 1807-1850... Silesia (Austrian) 5,812 198 1777-1800, and 1807-1850.. .Gallicia , 1,194 676 1787-1806, and 1807-1850.. .Bukownia 3,527 516 1817-1850.. .Dalmatia 86 1817-1850.. .Lombardy 87 1817-1850.. .Venice 70 1831-1850.. .Military Frontier 288 1776-1780, and 1810-1850.. .Prussia (Eastern Provinces) 3,321 556 1780, and 1810-1850.. .Prussia (Western Provinces) 2,272 356 1780, and 1816-1850. . .Posen 1,911 743 1776-1780, and 1810-1850.. .Brandenburgh 2,181 181 1776-1780, and 1816-1850.. .Westphalia 2,643 114 1776-1780, and 1816-1850.. .Rhenish Provinces 908 90 1781-1805, and 1810-1850.. .Berlin 3,422 176 1776-1780, and 1816-1850.. .Saxony (Prussian) 719 170 1780, and 1810-1850.. .Pomerania . 1,744 130 1810-1850.. .Silesia (Prussian) 310 1774-1801, and 1810-1850. . .Sweden 2,050 158 1751-1800, and 1801-1850.. .Copenhagen 3,'l28 286VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 13 Death-rate per hundred cases. Totiil No. of cases Araone the Ani »np the Places nnd times of observation. observed. unprotccttid. vdcc i I Idled. ITrnnrp 1 ft1 fi-41 16,397 1 1 97 240 U Pon+nn Vnnfl 1 S'^H *29 5,838 Dn-kphmcn (Diirklieim's') 1828-29 134 1 Q4 184 A U 909 Aft a 10,240 ooj '3 220 1,442 97J. ' 1 0 441 1 ftl. \/itinvi>T l-Tr\t.;i"M f'i 1 1 S^'■"ld. 300 ^r^ 1 01^ •1 O 1 Pnrintllin 1 .SiiJ—li/S 1,026 -\ A\ 1 1,102 ■*I 1^5 2,287 111 15,040 S9J 6i 1,059 28i Si- 723 19f Si London Smallpox Hospital, 1830-56... 9,000 35 7 Vienna Hospital, 1837-50 0,213 30 5 218 33 6 6,258 Z\ 7,570 21.07 4.2 E])i(l('niiological Society return, no date 4,034 19.7 2.9 In an important paper in the Transactions of the Medical and Ciiirurgical Society of London (vol. xx.xv.), Dr. J. G. Bal- four, Surgeon to lio^yal Military IIo.spital, Chelsea, shows that the smallpox mortality of the British navy has not reached a third, nor that of tlie British army a fourth of the London rate; and that in the experience of the Royal Militaiy Asylum for 48 years (within which time 5,774 boy.s have been received for training, only four deaths by smallpox occurred, and these all in oion-^accinated bo^'s, who ■were believed ah-eady to have sufi'ered smalljDox once before becoming inmates of the school. "And,'" in the words of the reviewer of the above ''papers/' "the combined weight of testimony from all sources of evi- dence is to show that in the proportion as vaccination is gen- eral and efficierd, so is the exclusion of smallpox f rom the com- munity^ and the moi'taUty greatly Ussenedy* * Brit, and For. Mod. Chir. v., Oct., 1857.14 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. From a paper on smallpox and vaccination, read before the JBoston Sanitary Association by Robert Ware, M.D., and pre- sented to tlie Senate and Ilonse of Representatives of Massa- chusetts, we learn that in Boston, in 1721, the year in which inoculation was introduced, and when the population of Boston was only 11,000, there were 5,759 cases of smallpox, of which Sll were fatal. Thus it appears that over one-half the inhab- itants had the disease, and one thirteenth died of it. In 1730 there were 4,000 cases and 200 deaths. In 1752, when the population was 15,684, the number of cases was 5,545 and the deaths 539. Again, in 1764, there were 5,646 cases ; in 1776, 5.292; and in 1792, 8,346. If we turn now to the period subsequent to the introduction of vaccination, and take the fifteen years between 1815 and 1830, when vaccination was, in a measure, compulsory and the restrictive system of isolation in force, we find the mortality of smallpox to amount to on\y fou7'teen deaths. A still longer period, from 1811 to 1839, shows that only fifty-two deaths from this disease occurred. Not only is it shown by the above statistics that the wor- tality of smallpox is diminished, but that the frequency of epidemics is also greatly reduced. In the report of the Epi- demiological Society of London, prepared by Dr. Seaton, it is shown that during the ninety-one years (1650-1741) previous to inoculation, there had been 65 distinct and well-marked epi- demics, which is a ratio of 71.4 epidemics in one hundred years. During sixty-three years (1741-1803) in which inoculation was practised, and that to a great extent, there were 53 distinct and well-marked epidemics, which is a ratio of 89 epidemics in one hundred years. During the last fifty years, since vaccination has been prac- tised and inoculation declared illegal, there have been twelve epidemics of smallpox, which is a ratio of 24 epidemics in one hundred years. Whence it appears that smallpox was epidemic in London before inoculation as 42; dui'ing inoculation as 54; during , vaccination as 14. {/hid., p. 35.) lu concluding this branch of the subject, your committee16 VACCKVATIOX IN AKMIKS. Wdiild cull yom- attention to the question addi'erised, in cir- cular, to members of tiie medical pi-ofesijion in the United ivingdom, and elsewhere, by Mr. Simon, medical ofiicer to the (teneral Board of Health in London, and to the great una- niiiuty in the atHrmative by the eminent authorities to whom it was sent: ''■Have you any doxibt that successful vaccination coivfers on persons subject to its influence, a very large exemption from attachs of smallpox, and almost absolute security ayainst death hy that disease Out of 542 pci-sons to whom this question was addi-essed, including not only the most eminent of British and Conti- nental practitioners, but also foreign governments, through their officials, but two dissenting answers were received; eveiy otlier expressed confidence in the practice. 2. Is the protection permanent, or is it modified ly any circumstance ? That tile i)i'otcctive influence of vaccination is subject to modification, either from the length of time elapsed since the operation or frcim a greater intensity of the vai'iolous infeciioii overriding the protection during certain periods of life, is very generally believed. Dr. CJ. Jl Wood* says: '"It cannot now be denied that a single vaccination does not atiord the pernninent security it was supposed to do. Probably nearly one-half of those vaccinated successl'ully ai'e liable to more or less effect from the variolous contagion ; though it is asserted that when the operation is performed with four or more insei'- tions instead of one, the proportion of the protection is much gri;ater.f It is chiefly during the e|ndemic prevalence or variola that this disposition in vaccinated persons to be aflected by the disease is observed. It has vei-y seldom been noticed to any considerable extent at other times. Another interesting fact is, that children of eight years or under are rarely attacked, that from this time to the age * Practice of Mudicino, vol. i., p. 410. t Medico-Chirurgicul Transactions, xxxvi., 388.VACCIXATION IN ARMIES. 16 of puberty eases begin to be more frequent, and that the greatest number occurs between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five. These two facts it is important to bear in mind. What can be the cause of tlie inefiiciency of protection in cer- tain cases? It may, the author tliinks, be explained by recur- rence to the facts stated above, namely, the greater tendency to variohwd during the epidemic prevalence of smallpox tlian at other, times, and greater frequency between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five tlian at any other period of life. Thus the security afl:brded by the vaccine disease, or smallpox, occui-riiig in seasons when no epidemic influence exists, may be efi'ectual under similar circumstances, but may fail during an epidemic when other forces are added to that of the con- tagious cause. That persons are most liable to the affection between fifteen and twenty-five would seem to show that the changes which take place about the period of puberty, and continue in operation more or less until that of maturity, which may be roughly placed at twenty-five or thirty, are favorable to the development of variolous disease; and that a degree of protection, which might be sufficient either earlier or later in life, is insufficient then." In the report by Dr. F. W. Sargent of cases attended in the Philadelphia City Hospital in 1845-6, it is stated that of the cases of vai-ioloid or smallpox after one vaccination, amounting to one hundred and thirty-six, more than twice as many occurred in the ten years from nineteen to twenty-nine, inclusive, as in either of the ten years preceding or following those ages.* In a paper by A. B. Steele, Esq., M. K. C. S.,t the follow- ing passage occurs. "The opinion so frequently expressed, that the protection afforded by vaccination in many cases lasts for a certain period only in the life of the individual, is by no means of recent origin, for in 1S09, Dr. Brown, of Mussel- burgh, published the opinion that the protective virtue of cowpox diminished as the time from vaccination increased. Dr. Copland, also, in 1S23, arrived at a similar conclusion. * Am. Journ. Med. Sci., N. S., xvii., 373. ■|- Liverpool Mod. Chir. Jouvn., July, 1858.VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 17 from some very remarkable cases which eame under his notice, and in the pix'seiit (Uxy thei'e are many authoj-ities of u-reat re- pute in favor of tliis view." Mr. Simon, in tlie work ah-eady quoted, states that in Paris nearly one-third of the whole deaths from smallpox occurred between the age of twenty and thirty, indicating, as he remarks, an appalling amount of p(»6t- vaccinal small[)ox. He further states that what chiefly attracted attention was that persons who had been vaccinated ten or fifteen yeai-s ago, and who during this interval had, perhaps, repeatedly resisted smallpox, would at length, in a certain proportion of their number, yield to the infection. This had most frequently happened during the times when smallpox was severely epi- demic among the unvaccinated, and when large masses of per sons with vaccination of many years were exposed to the test of a strong ejudemic influence. Under this ordeal, it became evident that, lor some vaccinated persons the insuscieptibility confei-red by cowpox was not of life-long duration. And from a careful analysis of cases it was shown that this lessened se- curity of certain vaccinated persons bore at least somi' pro- })ortion to the number of years which, in each case, had elajised since vaccination, for there were not materials to pi'ove any uniform rate of increase from year to year, and the increase, such as it was, apparently continued up to thirty years of age, after which period it seemed that the liability to contract small- pox underwent a continuous decline. Thus, Professor Jleim, taking 1,055 cases of modified or unmodified smalljiox in vac- cinated persons, distinguislied them under thirty-five heads, corresponding severally to the thii-ty-five years which had elapsed since vaccination. When this is divided into thi'ce successive parts, one for the first twelve years after vaccination, one for the next seventeen, and one for i\\Q following six years, It appears that the average number for each year is, in the first division, 12; in the second division, 48; in the third, 15. A calculation of similar materials made by Professor Retzius,* with respect to 961 cases in the Stockholm hospital, gave the * Gaz. Mi'd. do Paris, 1843.VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 18 following series to express the average allotment of smallpox to each vear of life in eleven successive quinquennials, up to the age of fifty-five: 3i, if, 131, 45|, 51^, 40, 20,17|, 3f,2i,_ 1. Ml-. Marson's petition, previously quoted, tends to establish the same result.'^ " But few patients," he says, " under ten years of age have been received with smallpox after vaccina- tion. After ten years the number began to increase consider- ably, and the largest admitted are for the decennial period from the age of fifteen to twenty-five; and although pro- gressively diminishing, they continue rather large up to thirty; and from thirty to thirty-five, they are nearly the same as from ten to fifteen ; but, as in the unprotected, at this period of life the mortality is doubled, showing the cause to be probably as much or more depending on age and its concomitants as on other circumstances. In still further advanced life, the rate of mortality will be seen to increase also, as in the unprotected state; but this tendency may be in a considerable degree counteracted, there is but little doubt, by giving more attention than has hitherto generally been given to the perfection of the process of vaccination." Thus, it appears that age exerts a modifying influence upon the protection of vaccination, by which, during certain years of life, it is lessened. Whether it depends upon decadence of that influence, upon original im- perfect vaccination, or upon a greater susceptibility, it needs; not now to inquire ; the fact is suflicient for our present pur- pose. It is not improbable, also, that in addition to the in- fluence of age, a greater susceptibility to the variolous influence may be produced by any marked change in the habits of life of those exposed to it. Recruits and volunteers may in this manner be more endangered than in the pursuit of their or- •dinary vocations. From what has been shown thus far, it is probably estab- lished that vaccination, if carefully ])erformed, exerts a positive protecting influence in favor of those receiving it. That in countries where vaccination is general, the fatality of smallpox iias under its influence declined to some small fraction of that * Blue Book, p. xxx.VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 19 wliicli fonnerl,)- prevailed ; but that (here is at least a (l()ul)t as to whether that proteetiun is operative during the period of life when men are most useful, and wliethei-, as they approaeh adult life, they do not partially or wholly recover that suscep- tibility to smallpox wliich vaccination had once extinguished in them. If a doubt upon this latter j-xAnt exist in the minds of those to whom the health of our troops is intrusted, surely they have a right to the benetit of that doubt, and it becomes the duty of those in authority to provide the means of safety, and restore or fui'nish tliat immunity which tlie soldier has either lost or failed to receive. 3. Is Iievacci7iaiion a preventive of smallpox f The answer to this question is found in the rich statistical results, mostly from foreign sources, b,y which so large a reduc- tion both of the mortality and the disease itself is shown as to leave no doubt of its efficacy. Your committee have drawn largely from the rej)oi-ts of revaccination of large masses of men in vari(uis militar}'establishments, especially in German}', collected by Mr. Simon. The eai'liest experience of this kind came from Wirteiuberg. In 1829 the pi-actice of revaccinating the troops of that kingdom was commenced, and its collective results for the next few years are recorded in the following table, showing an abstract of these results in relation to live years, terminating with June, 1836. The author calls atten- tion to one great fact deducil)le tVom tliese observations. It is, that "on the average of more than l-l-,Ol)0 experiments (an immense majority perforuicd at ages between twenty and thirty years), Si out of every 100 persons revaccinated de- veloped the same soi't of vesicle as would arise from a first insertion of vaccine lymph. And it is important to observe that this renewed susceptibility to cowpox did evidently not depend, so far as could be traced, on any original ineftective- ness of the former vaccination; for (as is expressly set forth in the second part of the table), among the 14,3S4 subjects of vac- cination, there were 7,845 who ])resented strictly normal scars ot previous vaccination. Yet neai-ly a third of this large num- ber gave again exactly such phenomena as arise in children20 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. when vaccinated for the first time. It does not follow from this, however, that every third nian would have taken the smallpox if exposed to the contagion; but that they would have been endangered admits of no doubt." Tolal. Ratio of success per 1,000 cases vaccinated. Perfect siiccesa. Modified success. No success. Vaccination of the" Wirtemberg army in the five years, 1831.l-'5i 1 14,384 340.3 260.8 411.5 13,681 of the above mentioned 14,384: military vaccinations being classified according to the marks of previous vaccination or smallpox, the results were as under. Degree of success of revaccination. Of cases with nor- mal cicutrices ol vuccinatioM tlieie weie 7,845, tuuj among these tlie results per 1,000 were— Of cases with de- fective cicatrice^ of vacciiiution, there weie 3.545, and araonf? these the results per 1.000 were— Of cases with no cicatrices ot vac- ciimtion or small- pox, tliere were 2,025, and among^ these the results per 1,000 were— (if cnses bearing nrnvks of previ- ous sronllpoN, there were 266, and among thei^e the re.'^iilis as per 1.000 were— 310.4 280.5 409.2 280.7 259 460.4 337.3 191.1 471.6 319.5 248.1 432.3 11,565 of the same number being distributed according to age, the results were as follows: Degree of success of revaccination. Under 20 years of age, there were revac ciliated 124 persons, anti tlie results per 1,000 w»re— Between 20 and 30, there weie revac- cinated 11,157 per- sons, and the results per 1,000 were— Above 30 years of age, there were revac- cinated persons, and t1)o results as per 1,000 were— 338.7 285.6 426.1 322.6 259.2 207.7 338.7 455.2 366.2 Inoculation of lymph (whether vaccine or variolous) is, says Mr, Simon, so to speak, a finer and more delicate test of sus- ceptibility to the smallpox poison than is the breathino- of an21 VACCINATION TN ARMIES. infected atmosphere; so th;it many persons, when the lymph of cowpox or smallpox is inserted in their skin, will give, lo- cally at least, evidences of susceptibility which no atmospheric infection would have elicited from them. And of this perhaps there can be no more ready illustration than the fact that per- sons loho lore marks of jprevioiis smallpox were, in at least equal proportion with previously vaccinated persons, capaUe of pro- d^mingperfect vaccine vesicles ; and probably they too, if test- ed with variolous matter, would have shown at the inoculated part similar signs of susceptibility; whereas, notoriously, of persons who have once had smallpox, not nearly one-third be- comes afterwards capable of contracting smallpox by frequent- ing; the neisrhborhoood of the sick. Ftjr this reason (greatly corroborated by what liad ali'eady in every-day practice been observed of the immunity of once vaccinated pei'sons), it was evidently impossible to argue that all who on revaecination yielded pei'fect vaccine vesicles would, on ordinary exposure to smallpox infection, have been infected with smallpox. Not that all, or nearly all, of them would have suffered, but that from among them more than from anion": other vaccinated persons the occasional suft'erers by small- pox would have come. (p. 34.) In the Prussian army, in 1833, there were revaccinated be- tween forty and fifty thousand adults, and in about 33 per cent, of the entire number this revaecination took with perfect success. In a revaecination of Russian soldiers at Kasan, the rate of pei'fect success was ISf per cent. It was observed at the same time, that in 1,436 persons presenting marks of pre- vious smallpox, perfect vaccine vesicles would arise just as often as on persons who had once been vaccinated! " Of nearly 20,000 revaccinations practised in the Danish army in the four years 1843-5 and 1847, more than half were attended with perfect success, and more than a quarter with modified success." " By the earliest of these various independent observations it was put beyond question that the same lapse of time which renders some vaccinated persons again susceptible of smallpox, rendcj's tliem also susceptible of cowpox. But it I'emains to be22 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. Been whether that second dose of the latter infection, wliicli it was the object of revaceination to introduce, would restore such persons, either permanently or foi- a long time, to the state of secuiitj from whicli they had declined; whether by successful revaceination their revived susceptibility to small- pox would be extingnished." {Ibid.) Now this is pi'ecisely the point to which this communication tends, and it seems to be conclusively settled by the experience of the Prussian and Wirtemberg array revaceination, whicli are selected from amongst a number of others in consequence of their extent and completeness. "In proof of the practical value of revaceination, Mr. Simon states, on the authority of Professor Heim, that in Wirtem- bura^— "During the five years, 1833-7, though smallpox infection had been sixteen times imported into different regiments of the army, there had ensued among the 14,384: revaccinated soldiers only (in the person of one whose revaceination two years be- fore had been followed by ' raodiried success") a single instance of varioloid." (p. 35.) In Prussia, just as in Wirtemberg, the practice of revacei- nation grew out of the knowledge that smallpox would ulti- mately attack a certain proportion of those who had been vaccinated only in infancy. This knowledge, too, had been dearly purchased in the Prussian army ; for during the ten years preceding 1831, cases of post-vaccinal smallpox were in- creasing in number and fatality ; attacks were counted annu- ally by many hundreds; and within the three years 1831-3, there had occurred no fewer than 313 deaths by smallpox. " For the last twenty years the Prussian army has repre- sented an almost entirely revaccinated population : and what has been the contrastlOi aniuuil deaths by smallpox was the last experience of the former system; 2 annual deaths by smallpox has been the average for the revaccinated army. Analyzing, moreover, the 40 fatal cases of smallpox which the last 20 years have occurred in the I'russian army, we find that only 4 of the number were of persons who (it is said) were suc- cessfully revaccinated."23 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. " From 184:3 rcvaccinatioii lias been coinpnlsory in the Bava- rian army ; and from that date to the present time (1S5T) neither a single death by smallpox nor even a single case of nnniodi- ried smalli)o.\ has occurred in that population."^' "For (he last 21 years revaccination has been general in the Danish army, and for the last 13 years in the Danish navy , and these two populations have almost entirely escaped con- tagion during several epidemics of smallpox."f In Sweden the practice is similar, and the results equally satisfactory. In the Swedish army J,9ii revaccinations were performed in 1852, of which 614, or 33.11 per cent., were suc- cessful. In the Baden army revaccination was introduced in 1840, and has since been effected with the greatest punctuality and exactness, with the exception of the years 1848-''i}-'50, when, in consecpieiice of jiolitical events, it lapsed. The number of men attac-ked in twelve years by variola and varioloid before the introduction of revaccination was 1G9, wdiilst the corre- gponding number after its introduction for a like period was 52 oidy, of whom only 12 had been operated on with success, the remainder having been revaccinated without result, or else not at all. Dr. T. Graham Balfour, head of the statistical branch of the medical bureau of the British army, in his fii'st general report, presented to Parliament at its last session, has given an inter- esting statement of the results of the very general vaccination and I'evaccination in the British army during the years 1858-9. We cpiote the following statements and statistics from Dr. Bal- four's report: In 1858. in consequence of a number of cases of smallp(>x having occurred in the army, particularly in India, among persons who had, to all appearance, been previously satisfacto- rily v accinated, a departmental order was issued that in lutnre every i-eo-nit should, on joining his regiment, be vaccinated, cvun it he slioiihl he I'ound to have marks of smallpox or pre- * Royal Ministry of War. t Butiyd of Iloaltli.24 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. vioiis vaccination, and a montlily return of the results to be forwarded to the director-general. " Under these orders, also, a number of soldiers in whom the marks of vaccination were not deemed satisfactory, were vac- cinated, and the results were kept separate from those of the recruits. "As the returns began to be furnished in October, 1S58, we have included the results of the last three months of that year with those of 1S59, with a view to render available all the in- formation upon this important subject. " The following table shows the degree of success which at- tended the operation in 1000 cases in each of four different categories, together with the general results upon all the men vaccinated:" O EC £ i = = O o o eS H o a (0 T* Army, excluslv Mil ilia. _C > 6 2; 'S o Rksults. In those who ninrks of pre smallpox. In those who good marks ol vioiis vRc-cinat c ^ a Mh c z o C O '~ o = _ £ > ^ TolKl. o . Q> t-t ■ rH O CO ■' CO o ■ A perfect vaccine} A modified ditto.... 414.50 200.74 384.76 423.50 179.69 390.81 294.12 363.44 342.44 488.96 107.19 343.85 413.13 201.23 385.64 Total 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000 - o - CO CO CO T—» A perfect vaccine) pustule j A modified ditto. ... 350.06 187.09 462.85 388.71 221.16 390.13 427.61 251.93 320.46 536.64 206.06 257.30 398.37 217.33 384.30 Total 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000VACCINATION' IN ARMIES. ^25 Resdlts. A perfect vaccine} pustule j A modified ditto. . . . [a failure in Total. A perfect vaccine) pustule ) A modified ditto. ... A failure in Total - c t; E = ^ 2 ^ o z V c ^ c r = a z > "J "E y: Toliil. C _ U5 C ^ £" "■ 327.07 294.57 4ol.85 o4U.0u 191.73 236.44 193.94 193.59 330.90 481.20 468.99 193.94 355.56 433.04 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000 351.14 295.00 415.18 585.03 320.97 212.28 248.59 174.11 105.45 230.77 436.58 256.41 410.71 309.52 442.30 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000 The folio wing table shows the result in Wirtembiirg, Ba- varian, and Prussian armies, compared with the preceding: Wirfemberg Bavarian .. Prussian (1836-40). British (recruits) .. Niinilier of Results in 1,000 revaccimitions. revdccirmtiijiis. Perfect Miecess. Mollified success. Fiiiliires. 14,384 340.2 248.3 411.5 46,033 347.3 220.6 433.0 216,426 456.3 215.0 338.7 21,686 346.1 220.9 433.0 In our own ai-my the statistics are meagre; those of Dr. Forry being the only results accessible to the committee, and these mei'ely prove the susceptibility to revaccinatioii. Still, thev are valuable as aflrordini; evidence of a '•'condition ot danger" in those in \vlH_)m the opei-ation was successful. The data constituting the results of Dr. Fori-y's paper* were fur- nished at Foi't Wood, ISTew York harbor, then used as a depot for recruits. Of GS6 rec.-i'uits vaccinated, 560 had been previ- * Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., April, 1843.26 VACCINATION IN ARMIKS. ously vaccinated, T-i liad liad smallpox naturally, and 52 had not been inoculated either with the variolous or vaccine virus, and had not had the disease naturally. Of the 560 previously vaccinated, 381 exhibited good cicatrices; in 134 they wei'e in- distinct or imperfectly developed; and in 45 no cicatrices were visible. Of the 560 previously vaccinated, 196 took the disease on revaccination, iuchiding 55 which froni the irregular prog- ress of the vesicle were regarded as afibrding a partial protec- tion from the smallpox. Of these 196,109 had been previously vaccinated before the age of live years; 48 between the ages of live and ten ; and 39 subsequentl}^ to the latter age. To de- termine, then, the period dui'ing which vaccination gives a " charmed life," it is necessary to institute a comparison be- tween these and the whole nnmber vaccinated. Thus, of the 560 previously vaccinated, 316 took place before the age of live years; 133 between the ages of five and ten years; and 111 after the latter period. TIence it follows, though not as an exact result, that as the ages of the great majority of the men ranged from twenty to thirty-three (the average being twenty- five years), and as the ratio of successful revaccination is very nearly the same after each interval of age (being about one- third), the limit of the protective powers of cowpox is not re- stricted to any precise number of years. These relative i-atios among the 560 previously vaccinated, may be thus represented : ^"'i«<^^- under 10. upwards. ^o'"'- Number of vaccinations 315 133 111 560 Number of successful revaccinations... 109 48 39 196 The only statistics of revaccination of the present army we have been able to obtain are the following, kindly furnished by Dr. S. 0. Yanderpoel, Surgeon-general of New York, from the first returns made to him in accordance to a (reneral order: Total number of recruits examined with reference to vaccination 9,548 Number of persons bearing the marks of previous vaccination 7.765 Total number vaccinated or revaccinatcd 8,095 "'otal number vaccinated who were found to be susceptible 2,292 Number of the susceptible persons who had mnrlvs of previous vacci- nation 1,:]33VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 27 This coininnnicatioii has shown, we trust, 1st : That iii iiiiai'j vaccinatidii is a positive protection, witliiii certain limits, against smallpox. 2d. That tliere is a period of life when lliat iiifiiience declines, and that the history of ejjidemics teaches tliat smallpox will attack a variable proporlion of the vacci- nated if exposed to its influence. 3d. That the mere 2^o.ssih/.l- ^^yof su(;h a decline renders I'eprotection necessary. 4th. That in revaccination we have an almost infalliltle I'cstorer of that protection and preventive of the spread of variolous epidemics. Hence, that revaccination in all bodies exposed to variolous contagion is imperativelij demanded. 5th. That the operations of vaccination and revaccination are unattended with danger to those subjected to them. The committee would therefore earnestly i-ecomniend that the Sanitary Commission make such representation to the proper authorities as will secure the re- vaccination of all soldiers who cannot prove its performance upon them within the previous five years, and that arrange- ments be made by which good vaccine virus may be distributed by their agents to the medical officers. Francis G. S.mith, M. D., ClCn. Alfked Stille, M. D.APPENDIX. SIGNS OF SUCCESSFUL VACCINATION ^ND OF SUCCESSFUL REVACCINATION. (Gkegob, revised by Ceely and Maeson.*) (A.) " When vaccination has been snccessfullj performed the puncture may be felt elevated on the Becond or third day, and soon afterwards, if examined with a magnifying glass, appears surrounded by a slight redness. On the fifth or sixth day a distinct vesicle is formed, having an elevated edge and depressed centre. On the eighth day it appears distended witli a clear lymph. The vesicle, on this its day of greatest perfection, is circular and pearl-colored ; its margin is turgid, firm, shining, and wheel shaped. Late on the seventh, or early on the eighth day, an inflamed ring or areola begins to form around the base of the vesicle, and, with it, conlinnes to in- crease during the two following days. This areola is of a cir- cular form, and its diameter extends from one to three inches. When at its height, on the ninth or tenth day, there is often considerable hardness and swelling of the subjacent cellular membrane. On the tenth or eleventh dav the areola begins to subside, leaving, as it fades, two or three concentric circles of redness. The vesicle now begins to dry in the centre, and acquires there a brownish color. The lymph which remains becomes opaque, and gradually concretes; so that about the fourteenth or fifteenth day the vesicle is converted into a hard round scab of a reddish-brown color. This scab contracts, dries, blackens, and about the twenty-first day falls ofl". It * Second Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1859. (Blue Book), Loudon.VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 29 leaves a cicatrix, wliicli coiiimoiily is pcrnianciit in after-life, circular, somewhat depressed, dotted or indented Avitli niinuti! pits, and in sonic instances radiated. The altovc-descrihed local changes, while in active progress, are attended by fever- ishness : first from the fifth to the seventh day, so slightly that often the fact passes unobserved ; and again more considerably during those days when the areola is about its height; the pa- tient now being restless and hot, with more or less disturbance of stomach and bowels. About the same time, especially if the weather be hot, children of full habit not unfrequently show on the extremities, and less copiously on the trunk, a lichcnous, roscolor, or vesicular eruption, which commonly con- tinues for about a week. When vaccination is performed on such adults or adolescents as have not previously been vac- cinated, and likewise when lymph is employed which has recently been derived from the cow, tlie resulting phenomena, as compared with the preceding description, are somewhat retarded in their course; and the areola is apt to be much more diff'use. There is also more feverishness, but eruption is less frequently seen." (B.) '• When persons who have once been efliciently vaccin- ated are, some years afterwards, revaccinated with eft'ective lymph, there sometimes results vesicles, which, as regards their course and that of the attendant areola, cannot be distinguished from the perfect results of primary vaccination. But far more usually the results are more or less modified by the influence of such previous vaccination. Often no true vesicles form, but merely papular elevations surrounded by areola ; and these results having attained their maximum on or before the fifth day, afterwards quickly decline. Or if vesicles form, their shape is apt to vary from that of the regular vesicle, and their course to be more rapid, so that their maturity is reached on or before the sixth day, their areola decline on or before the eighth day, and their scabbing begins correspondingly early. In either case the areola tend to dift'use themselves more widely and less regularly, and with more afl:eetion of the cellular mem- brane than in primary vaccination ; and the local changes are accompanied by much itching, often l)y some irritation of the30 Vaccination in armies. axillaiT glands, and in some cases on the fourth or fifth day by considerable febi'ile disturbance.'' METHOD OF PRESERVING VACCINE LYMPH. By Dr. Hdsbaito, of Edinburgh.* The following method of preserving lymph in capillary glass tubes has been found entirely successful. Lymph has been used, after being kept for several years, with satisfactory re- sults. The tube employed is simple, straight, cylindrical, open at both ei:ds, and of such dimensions as to fulfil the folloM ing conditions, upon which it will be found that its peculiar value, as a means for preserving lymph for future every-day use, es- sentially depends. It must be— 1. In the first place, of such tenuity that it can be sealed in- stantaneously at the flame of a candle. 2. In the second place, large enough to contain as much lymph as is sufficient for one vaccination. 3. In the third place, long enough to admit of both ends being sealed hermetically without subjecting the charge to the heat of the flame. 4. And, in the fourth place, of such strength as not to break easily in the mere handling. The following is the mean of several measurements which I have made of tubes, difl'ering somewhat in size, but all of them capable of containing a suflicient charge of lymph, and of be- ing sealed instantaneously at the flame of a candle, without subjecting the contained charge to the heat, and also strong enough to bear all necessary manipulations without breaking: Average length 2;f to 3 inches. Diameter of an inch. Thickness of wall ^Jg of an inch. Calibre. * Second Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1859. (Blue Book), London.VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 31 TliL' vesicli's liaviiio- been opeiiei] with a lancet in the usual vay, the tuhc held in a position nioix; or less inclined to the horizontal, is c]Kii-!j,-eil by ajiplying one end of it (the straight end, if they be not both sti'aight) to the exuding lymph, whicli enters immediately by the force of capillary attraction. Allow as nnicli to enter as will oc(;u])y tVoni al)out one-seventh to one- half the lengtli of the tube, according as its capacity is greater or less. As a general rule, each tube should not be charged with more than will sutiice for one vaccination. It is now to be sealed in one or other of the following ways : Either, 1st. uiake the lymph gravitate towards the middle, by holding the tube vertically and giving it a few slight shocks by striking the wrist on the arm or table; then seal the end by which the lymph entered, by applying it to the surface of the flame of a candle, or any similar flame. It melts over and is sealed immediately. Proceed with the other cud in the same way, but first plunge it suddenly, say half an inch into the flame, and as quickly withdraw it till it tonches the surface, and hold it there till it too melts over. It is uecessary to plunge it first into the flame, i'or this reason, tluit if it be at once applied to the external sur- face of the flame it melts over, uo doubt, and is sealed ; but before you have time to complete the process, and while the glass is still soft, the contained air expands with the heat, and forms a minute bulb, which either gives way on the iustaiit, I'endering it uecessary foi' you to break off" the end and com- uience anew, or, what is still worse, remains entire for the time, only to break afterwards, in consequence of its extreme tcn-.iity of wall, by the slightest touch. Mr. Ceely has sug- gested, that while this pi-ecaution is necessary for the reason stated, it serves also to ex])el a portion of air, and so leaves less air to be sealed up along with the fluid lymph. Or else, 2illy, the charge having entered, hold the tube wiih the linger and thumb, covering the inner extremity of tlie eolunm of lynq)h and protecting it from tlie heat, and di'aw nearly the whole of the empty portion throngh the ilame, so as to rai-ety the contained aii-; and in witlidrawing it, seal the fnr- tlier extremity. The column now passes (pnckly along toward-"32 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. the middle of tlie tube as tlie contained air cools, and you complete the process by sealing lastly tlie oriiice by which it entered. It should be observed, that in no case is a tube to be laid down until the lymph has been made to pass towards the mid- dle of it, for the fluid concretes quickly about the orifice, and you cannot afterwards detach it without difliculty ; but if it be at once made to pass away from the orifice by holding the tube vertically, you may lay the charge down and take half a dozen or more in the same way before sealing them ; only if you delay the sealing process too long, more than five (U' ten minutes perhaps (a delay which need never happen), the lymph within the tube is apt, from evaporation, to become adherent, especially if it be more than ordinarily viscid, and it cannot afterwards be blown out when you come to use it. If the lymph do not exude freely, the tube may require to be drawn several times more or less obliquely across the surface of the vesicle or cluster of vesicles until a sufficient charge has entered ; but generally, if the exudation be copi- ous, and a drop of some size has formed before you begin to take your supply, the orifice of the tube need not, indeed ought not, to touch the surface, but is merely to be dipped into the clear fluid; and one may commonly in this manner, from one arm, charge five or six tubes in almost as many seconds with perfectly pure and limpid lymph, which shall contain neither epithelial scales, nor pus globules, nor blood disks, and therefore be, so far, in the best possible condition for preserva- tion. In order to obtain the lymph from a tube for the purpose of vaccinating, the sealed ends are broken off, and the contents blown out gently on the point of the lancet or vaccinator. The tubes may be easily and safely sent by ])()St in the fol- lowing manner: A flat piece of soft fir, about three inches and a half long, an inch and a half wide, and one-sixth of an inch thick, has a narrow and sluiUow groove made in it about a quarter of an inch wide, into which the charged tubes, two or more of them, are placed, with perhaps a few filanienrs of cotton beside then-VACCINATION IN ARMIES. * Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1858. 83 to prevent motion. Another piece of wood of the same size, but which need not be quire so thick, is then laid above the groove and its contents, and the two pieces are joined in any way that is thought most convenient, by being tied or pinned together. NEW MODE OF PRESERVING VIKUS. By Dr. Collins.* Having experienced much trouble, particularly of late, in keeping a reliable supply of vaccine virus for public vaccina- tions, I was glad to meet with any suggestions which would aid me in accomplishing this very desirable object. I immedi- ately made some experiments, which have convinced me that, by the use of glycerine, we can probably preserve vaccine virus for a great lengtli of time, and that when we desire it for more immediate use, this liquid is by far the best solvent for the solid matter that we possess. It saves us both time and trouble, and enables us to use the matter with much greater economy, which is of importance when our stock happens to be small. I think that no one who has once used glj'cerine for this pur- pose would desire to use any thing else. In my tirst experiment, I pulverized about one-eighth of an ordinary scab upon a glass plate, and moistened it with a small drop of glycerine. It is better that the matter be pulverized, as it otherwise dissolves very slowly. The quantity thus pre- pared served fur my vaccinations for several days, amount- ing in all to twenty-four, among which tliere were about two failures—a success whicli I have rarely attained when using water as the solvent. There was. of course, no drying up of the matter, after the solution, requiring renewed applica- tions of the solvent, and so long as any remained upon the plate it was ready for immediate use. I next pulverized another one-eighth of a scab, and dissolved It in about two drops of glycerine, placed at the bottom of a very small phial. From this I lilled, by suction with the month,34 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. * Boston Medical and Surgicnl .Tournal. April, 1860. four of the usual capillary glass vaccine tubes, and sealed them hermetically—using for this purpose but about one-half the two drops. From one of these tubes I have since vaccinated three children successfully, using less than one-half its contents. The other three tubes I shall keep for some time, to see if age will in any degree impair its quality. I see no reason M'hy, when thus dissolved in glycerine, and hermetically sealed in glass tiibes, it should not retain its virtue for a great length of time. The antiseptic qualities of tlie glycerine^ I should judge, would render it less liable to change than is the pure vaccine lymph when ti-eated in the same way, which we know can thus be kept for many months. If I am correct in the foregoing conclusions,.,which a little time will determine, the preservation of vaccine virus, and the distribution of it, when desired, to distant sections of the conn- try, will become an exceedingly simple and easy affair. A single scab, prepared as above, would be sufficient to fill some fifty tubes, each of which would be capable of vaccinating ten or more persons. I would suggest that the glass tubes, for this purpose, should be drawn with a little larger bore than those in use f )r the pure lymph, both for the convenience of filling, and tliat the solution may be used in a little more concentrated form than is practi- cable with the very fine capillary tubes, which answer well for the latter purpose. HOW TO VACCINATE. By Henry A. M^vbtdi, M. D., of Roxbury, Mass.* "Make, with tne point of a clean lancet, some groups of transverse scratciies, or, rather, very delicate incisions. The number of these will vary according as few or many vesicles are considered necessary. The length of the individual scratches will determine, of course, the size of the resulting vesicle, and, to some degree, the soreness of the arm. " The incisions should be so slight as barely to result in theVACCINATIOX IN ARMIES. 35 faintest possible exudation of blood, and tluit only after the lapse of a second or two; but, if a greater flow of blood docH ensue, the operation will be no less certain in its results, al- though a little neatness will have been needlessly sacrificed. To that gn~)ui> of scratches from which the Ijlood first exudes, the charged point of a quill is to be applied ; the lymph thereon will be immediately absorbed ; the particle of blood with the lymph in solution, is to l)e then taken up on the point of the quill, applied to, smeared over, and pressed into the other scratches, in succession, two or three times. "• When the dissolved scab or fluid lymph is employed, it is to be applied on the point of the lancet, precisely as the dis- solved lymph on the point of tlie quill." Yaccine lymph on a quill-point is best introduced by insert- ing it about a quarter of an inch into a flat, superflcial valvular incision under the cuticle, made by a narrow-bladed lancet in the skin over the attachment of the left deltoid muscle, keep- ing the quill-point there for a minute or two, wiping it off on the edges of the cut as it is withdrawn, and avoiding, in the whole operation, the eflfusion of blood, as far as possible.1! IMM E.THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. F. REPORT OF A (ilommittft of tlt^ |t$$ociatf '^IttUrat ^Umbers! OF I THR UNITED STATES SAiXlTAliY COMMISSION, ON THE SDBJKOT OF AMPUTATIONS. SECOND EDITION. PRINTED FOR CIRCULATION BY THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. 1865.The attention of The United States Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach any thing that can he termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical Btafi^ of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions whicii are likely to present themselves to surgeons in tlie field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of'-hier practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our prii'-^ipal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the bes evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " Amputations" belongs to this series, and v re- spectfully recommended by the Commission to the medical officers ol 'ur army now in the field. Fred. Law Olmsted, Washington, Dec. 6, 1861. Secretary.AMPUTATIONS. TiiK following general rules in regard to Amputations, for the guidance of Army Surgeons in the field, are advocated hy the best modern authorities on the subject. NECESSITY OF AMPUTATION. 1. Cases where a limb is nearly or completely carried away, leaving a ragged stump, with laceration of the soft parts, and projection of the bone. 2. Cases in which the soft parts of a liml) arc extensively lacerated or contused, the principal arterial and nervous trunks destroyed, and the bone denuded or fractured. 3. Cases in which a similar condition exists, without either fracture or denudation of the bone. 4. Cases of compound and comminuted fracture, particularly those involving joints. 6. Gun-shot wounds in which the ball docs not actually pene- trate the joint, but in which the bone being struck above or below, tile fracture extends into the joint. C. Guu-shot wounds between the phalanges of the fingers or toes, do not necessitate amputation. 7. Gun-shot wounds penetrating the wrist, unless great lacer- ation has occurred, do not necessarily demand amputation. 8. In guii-i~liot injuries of tlic shoulder and elbow joints, pro- vided the main blood-vessels and nerves are not injured, ex- cision may be practised witli a fair pros})ect of success.AMPUTATIONS. 6 9. Compound fractures of the middle and lower part of the thigh, occasioned by gun-shot, require amputation. As regards similar injuries in the upper two-thirds of the thigh, the mor- tality following amputations has been so very great that army surgeons have generally abandoned the operation. Dr. McLeod, after a careful inquiry into this point, says: •'Under circumstances of war, similar to those which occurred in the East, we ought to try to save compound comminuted fractures of the thigh, when situated in the upper third; but immediate amputation should be had recourse to in the case of a like accident occurring in the middle and lower third.'' Such cases must be left to the judgment of the Surgeon. 10. Gun-shot wounds of the knee-joint demand amputation. The operation of excision, in the very few cases in which it has been practised by army surgeons, has not been attended by favorable results. This want of success is not, however, to con- demn, except upon the field of battle, an operation which has been so successfully performed in cases of disease. 11. Gun-shot fractures in the middle of the leg do not neces- sitate amputation, unless the arteries are destroyed, or the in- juries involve the neighboring joints. 12. Gun-shot injuries of the ankle do not necessarily require amputation. If the posterior tibial artery and nerve have escaped injury, and if the bones be not too extensively commi- nuted, attempts may be made to save the limb. 13. Great care should be exercised, before proceeding to amputation, to ascertain whether a patient may not be other- wise mortally wounded. THE TIME FOR OPERATING. In army-practice, on the field, amputation, when necessary, ought to be primary. Patients, in most cases, cannot bear re- moval from the field witiiout increased danger, neither can they have afierNvards the hygienic attentions which secondary am- putations must necessarily require. Therefore:AMPUTATIONS. 7 1. Amputate with as little delay as possible, after the receipt of the injury, in those eases where there is intense suffering from the ]n-esence in the wound of spienla of bone, or otlier foreign bodies, which the fingers or forceps cannot reach. 2. In those cases where a limb is nearly torn otf, and a dan- gerous hemorrhage is occurring, which cannot be arrested. 3. In those eases where it is clearly seen that the patient is not suffering from immediate collapse, or great nervous depres- sion, a condition which will probably come on if there is any considerable delay. If the shock or collapse is extreme, the operation must be postponed, until, by appropriate measures, reaction is sufficiently established. 4. In certain cases, where the collapse is not extreme, the use of Sulphuric Ether, as an anaesthetic agent, often has the effect of bringing about a moderate reaction. Such cases 'would formerly have required delay. 5. In army-practice, attempts to save a limb which might be perfectly successful in civil life, cannot be made. Especially is this the case in compound gun shot fractures of the thigh, bullet wounds of the knee-joint, and similar injuries of the leg, in which, at first sight, amputation may not seem necessary. Under such circumstances, attempts to preserve a limb will be followed by extreme local and constitutional disturbance. Con- servative surgery is here an error; in oi'der to save life, the limb must be sacrificed Moreover, the suppuration and sloughing, attendant upon mutilated limbs, soon render tlie atmosphere of over-crowded hospitals or barracks perfectly untenantable; a fact entitled to a certain amount of weight, in cases where the propriety of primary amputation is at all questioned. THE POINT OF SELECTION. Modern surgery has abutidaiitly shown that, as a general rule, the risk is greater in [)n)])ortion as the size of the part which is amputated increases, and as the line of ami)utation8 AMPUTATIONS. approaclies the trunk; in fact, the nearer to the trunk, the greater the danger. Therefore: 1. Asa general rule, other things being etpal, save as much of the limb as possible. 2. When time is of consequence, disarticulation of a phalanx is sometimes preferable to the division of the bone in its con- tinuity. Disarticulation of the toes is always preferable, ex- cept, in some cases, the first phalanx of the great toe may be divided through its middle portion. 3. However extensive may be an injury to the hand, en- deavors should be made to save a portion of it, if it be only one or two fingers. Especially should an attempt be made to preserve the thumb, and even in the very worst-looking cases, such is the great reparative power of nature in these parts, that the surgeon may genei'ally accomplish much in this respect. 4. Where time is of consequence, and even in most cases, * disarticulation at the wrist-joint is preferable to an attempt to save a few of the carpal bones. 5. In gun-shot injuries of the foot, attempts may be made to save a portion of the member by either of the methods recommended by Hey, Chopart, Pirogoff, or Syme. In place of Hey's operation, the disarticulation of the metatarsal bones from the tarsus being often troublesome, it is better to saw through the metatarsus just in tVont of the tarsal articulations. Should disarticulation at the ankle-joint be practised, the re- moval of the malleoli must not be forgotten. 6. Other things being equal, it is best to save as much of the leg as possible, not exceeding three-fourths, in order for the better adaptation of an artificial limb. 7. In the rare cases which admit of its adoption, excision of the head of the femur is to be i)erformed in preference to dis- articulation, as being the least likely to lead to a fatal issue. When it is determined to perform amputation, it should, if pos- sible, be made through the trochanters of the femur, rather than at the hip-joint. 8. In selecting the point for amputation, it must be remem- bered that, in gun-shot wounds, the injuries are often far more extensive than they at first sight appear. Care therefore should9 AM PUTATIONS. be taken that tlio anxiety to preserve as inucli of tlie limb as possible does not influence the Sui'geon's better judg-ment to the detriment, and perhaps even to the loss, of his patient, from Bubse(|uent sloug'hing and gangrene. HINTS FOR AFTER-TREAT^>IENT. 1. When a wound is extensive, as in cases of ami)ntation, it is far pi-eferable to leave the wound open, witli a piece of wet lint, or a thin cunipress, interposed between tlie lips, fur two or three hours, until the surface has become glazed, in this way, as reaction conies on, hemorrhage may be often avoided, or if it does occur, is easily controlled without the distui-bance of the dress iiiics. Tliei'e need be no feai' as regai'ds the nundjcrof the ligatures applied. It is better to employ too many than too few, at the time of operation. 2. The dressings of a stumj) should be as simple and as little cumbersome as the case will in any way admit of. A narrow strip of water-dressing should be laid along the edge of the incision, over the strips of adhesive plaster, and the part should be so arranged that one end (^f the incision may be most de- pendent, in order to facilitate the escape of all dischai'ges. An outlet for this jjurpose should never be neglected. 3. The jiosition of the stump is (^f the utmost iini)ortance. By proper attention to this point, the edges and surfaces of the incision luay be brought into contact, and the patient is sj)ared the pain and uneasiness which, under other circumstances, the tension and pressure, necessary to bring the pai'ts togethei', uiu^t invariably ])roduce. ■f. If the dressings are ])ropcrly aitplied, as a general rule, these need not be changed for several days after amputation. Nriich mischief is undoubtedly done by a too hasty removal of the fii'st dressing-s. 5. Alter removal of the hi'st di'essings, if union has not taken place by adhesive inilammaliun, and suppuration ha^10 AMPUTATIONS. commenced, with miicli lieat and tenderness about the part, a poultice may be advantageously substituted for the water- dressing. 6. In all cases where there is mucli suppuration, and tendency to bagging of matter, the parts must be well supported by bandages. Altliough complete j)rimary union is desirable, the Sur- geon should not be over-anxious to bring about this result. 8. Of course, in cases where, after amputation, transporta- tion of tlie patient to any considerable distance is contem- plated, or likely to occur, the dressings must be so arranged that any such removal will not disturb the parts, and thus in- terfere with the safety or speedy recovery of the individual. The preceding paper, prepared by Dr. D. D. Slade, of Bos- ton, is recommended for publication to the United States Sani- tary Commission, by the Medical Commission of the State of Massachusetts. Geo. Hay ward, s. d. townsend, John Ware, J. M. Warren, S. Cabot, Jr., K. M. Hodges.SANITARY COMMISSION. G. OF A COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATE MEDICAL MEMBERS OF THE SANITARY COMMISSION, ON TUE SUBJECT OP AMPUTATIONS TlIllOUGK THE FOOT, AND AT THE ANKLE-JOINT. NEW YORK: BAILLli:RE BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 44:0 Broadway. 1862.The attention of the Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Array Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoidably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present them- selves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which arc, therefore, of chief practical imi^ortnnco. The Commission lias assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical jirofession, Avhose names are the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " Amputations through the Foot and at the Ankle-Joint," belongs to this series, and is respectfully recom- mended by the Commission to the medical oflicers of our army now in the field. Fr.ED. TjAw Olmsted, Secretary. ■Washington, Dec. Cth, 18G1.BONES OP THE FOOT AND ANKLE-JOINT. Surgical Anatomy. a and 6, Inferior Extiemity of the Tibia and Fibula; c, Asti-agalus; <7, Os Calcis; e, Scaphoid; /Cuboid; g. Internal Cuneiform; A, Middle Cuneiform; i. External CuneLform; 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Metatarsal Bones; k, k, k, k, k, Phalanges of the Toes.REPORT. It is proposed in tliis paper to consider briefly tliopc opera- tions in tlie region of tlie foot whicli are generally regarded as conservative. They are all undertaken -with a view either to preserve the largest extent of the extremity possible for snbse- qncnt unaided service, or to adapt a stump that affords the Lest medium for mechanical appliances. PRESKRVATIOX OF INDIVIDUAL TOES. It is alwaj's desirable'to preserve as many of the phalanges as possible. If the injury is of such a nature as to require the sacrifice of all but one toe, this should be preserved. The sup- port which is given to the foot in the mechanism of jn-ogression, by even the small toe alone, is sufficient to warrant its preser- vation. Especially is it important to save the great toe, which forms so considerable a part of the foot. AMPUTATION OF THE METATAKSO-PnALANGEAL AKTICULATION. When the injury requires the sacrifice of all the toes, the surgeon should, if the soft parts permit, remove tliem at their articulation with the metacarpal bones. Tiie resulting extre- mity will be extremely serviceable without artificial aid. Operation.—1st. The operator, grasping all the toes in his lelr hand, makes, with a narrow knife, a semi-circular incision, extending (for the left foot, and vice versa) from the internal border of the first metatarsal bone, to the external border of the6 fifth, in front of the articdatioii of the toes with the metatarsus. 2d. The articuhations are opened in succession with the point of the knife, and their ligaments divided. 3d. The knife is then carried behind the phalanges for the purpose of cutting out a semi-circnlar flap from the plantar surface of the foot.— Lisfrands Method in Bernard and Huette. EXCISION OF INDIVIDUAL METACARPAL BONES. It occasionally happens that the local injury is of such a nature that by careful dissection the individual metacarpal bones may be removed, and the remainder of the foot be pre- served. This is always preferable to any more considerable mutilation of the foot, and should not on any account be over- looked. AMPUTATION AT THE TAESO-METATARSAL ARTICULATION. If the injury involves so much of the extremity of the foot as to raise the question of amputation at a point higher than those already indicated, the surgeon should make every exer- tion to save the tarsus entire. If the soft parts allow it, this can be accomplished by amputation at the tarso-metatarsal articulation. The following description of the operation is condensed from Bernard and Huette :— To recognise the A7'ticulatio7i.~lst. On the inner side of the foot carry the finger backward along the inner border of the metatarsal bone until a projection is encountered, one or two lines beyond; this is the articulation, situated in a depression between the two projections. Tlic articulation may also be found just one inch anterior to the prominence of the scaphoid bone. 2d. On the outer side follow the external border of the fifth metatarsal bone, until the prominence at its proximal extremity is recognised; the articulation lies immediately behind it; in some instances, the head of the metatarsal bone projects a trifle beyond the articulation.7 Modes of Ojyeratinrj.—Ist. Tlie patient is placed upon Lis back, and tlie foot rotated moderately inwards. The surgeon recoo-niscs the exact situation of the articulation by the rules already laid down, and then grasps, Avith the palm of his left hand, the sole of the foot, his thumb being placed on the outer side of the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal bone, and the index finger at the internal extremity of the articulation. He then makes a semidunar incision Avith its convexity looking downwards, from without inwards, across the dorsum of the foot, passing about half an inch below the articulation, and extcndino; from one of its extremities to the other down to the bones. 2d. The surgeon divides, Avith tlie point of his knife, the dorsal ligaments, carrying it along the line of the articulation from without inwards, as already indicated, and recollecting that the articulation of the second metatarsal lies a third of an inch posterior to the others. 3d. The mortise in which the head of the second metatarsal is inclosed remains to be opened. This is effected by intro- ducing the point of the knife between the internal cuneiform and the head of the fi.rst metatarsal bone, its edge being turned upAvards, and making an angle of 45'^ Avith the axis of the foot. The knife is then carried up to a right angle, its point travers- ing the Avhole of the inner surface of the mortise, in order to insure the division of the interosseous ligament; it is then Avith- draAvn, and applied to the external surface of the mortise. ■ith. When this has been accomplished, pi-essure is made upon the metatarsus to separate the articular surfaces, and their remaining ligamentous attachments are successively divided, especially those on the plantar aspect of the articulation, so that the knife may be carried readily beneath the heads of the nu'tatarsal liones, and the operation is then finished by cuttuig out a fiap from the sole of the foot, Avliich should be somewhat larger at its internal than at its external part."'^' * Tlio operation nbove d<.-scribcd is generally known in lliis country as Linfrunes8 AMPUTATION AT THE MEDI0-TAE8AL ARTICTILATION. (cHOPARt's OPERATION.) To recognise the Articulation. {Condensed fr07n Bernard and Euette.)—^\\Q articulation at the middle of the tarsus is formed by the astragalus and the os calcis behind, and by the cuboid and scaphoid in front; the inter-articular line -which crosses the foot transversely resembles the italic oo of which tlie anterior convexity is internal and its posterior convexity external. The internal extremity of the articulation is just one inch in front of the internal malleolus, and two lines and a half behind the tuberosity of the scaphoid. The external ex- tremity is half an inch behind the projection formed by the head of the fifth metatarsal bone. It corresponds with a prominence on the external surface of the cuboid bone, which is situated just one inch in front of the external malleolus. The centre of the articulation lies immediatel}' in front of the head of the astragalus, whicli can be made to project hy forcibly extending the foot. On the outside of this prominence is a depression sensible to the touch, lying between the astra- galus, the cuboid, and the os calcis; the articulation is imme- diately in front of this. Rides in Operating.—1st. The exact position of the articula- tion having been recognised by the means above indicated, the surgeon grasps the foot with his left hand, its sole being placed in his palm, his thumb upon the external extremity of the articulation, and the index finger upon the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone; 2d. The knife is then to be carried across the dors\im of the foot from the thumb towards the index finaer, making a semi-circular incision which descends about half an inch below the line of the articulation ; 3d. After the retrac- tion of tlie integuments, divide the tendons which remain uncut and open tlie articulation, bearing in mind the varying obliquity operation on the foot, nnd it is distinguished hy this title from //euV- operation tlirougli Ihc mctntarsus.9 of the articular surfaces as already inflicated, and also to divide t]ioron<i,-hly the fibrous bands connectinir the scaphoid and astragalus before attempting to enter the joint, as the thin edge of the seapliold juts over the latter in some degree ; 4th. The articulation being entirely laid open, and all its ligaments freely divided, pass the flat of the blade behind the bones, and having brought up the end of the foot into its natural position, cut out a flap from its plantar surface, which should extend beyond the sesamoid bones in order to possess sufficient length; the knife should graze the bones in making the flap, care l)eing taken to avoid tlie projections of the scaphoid, cuboid, and lirst and flfth metatarsals. AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLli JOINT. Amputation at the ankle joint -was performed witli very in- different success by tlie older surgeons. The failure was due rather to the inutility of the stump, than to tlic moi-talitj'- after the operation. It was their invariable practice to make the flaps from the tissues about the aid'cle, and, with but rare ex- ceptions, they left the malleoli undisturbed. The first difficulty which they experienced was in closing the wound over the projecting malleoli, and the second was the protrusion of these processes through the meagre covering of the stumj), when the patient began to use his limb. Unfavorable as were the cir- cumstances attending the early methods of perf )rming this operation, still, man}^ cases are on record in which a useful limb was obtained, due, doubtless, to the entire or partial absorption of the malleoli. Amputation at the aid-;le joint did not, therefore, obtain a place among the legitimate operations of the earlier surgeons. It may fairly be cpiestioncd if opera- tive surgery has in any instance made a more imjiortant advance toward the realization of its humane ])\ii'j)oses of saving life and restoring useless limbs than in tliis single j)ar- ticuhii- of amputation at tlie ankle joint. Pi-evion-ly to 1843, m all atlections of the foot involving its I'cmoval, ampntation 110 was performed through the leg. The mortality after this ope- ration, always considerable, varies with circumstances. In the Parisian hospitals it lias been estimated as high as fifty per cent., even when performed for chronic disease, a condition most favorable to success. American hospitals give thirty- seven per cent., and English hospitals nearly twenty per cent. ; a fair average of the mortality of this operation, may be put at twenty-five per cent. In 1850, Mr. Syme stated {Monthly Jour.) that he had performed amputation at the ankle between thirty and forty times, with the loss of but a single patient, and in this case the unfortunate result was not due to the opera- tion. More recently he remarks, " the operation itself I believe to be as free from risk as the removal of a finger or toe." There are now two principal methods of amputation at the ankle joint known respectively by their projectors as Syme's and Pirogofi"'s operations. The relative merits of these opera- tions will be more easily appreciated by describing the methods pursued and grouping the facts which experience has thus far accumulated. Syme's Method. Ojyeratioti.—The foot being placed at a right angle to the leg, a line drawn from the centre of one malleolus to tliat of the other, directly across the sole of the foot, will show the proper extent of the posterior flap. The knife should be entered close up to the fibular malleolus, and carried to a point on the same level of the opposite side, which will be a little below the tibial malleolus. The anterior incision should join the two points just mentioned at an angle of 45* to the sole of the foot and along the axis of the leg. In dissecting the posterior flap, the ope- rator should place the fingers of his left hand upon the heel, while the thumb rests upon the edge of the integuments, and then cut between the nail of the thumb and tuberosity of the OS calcis, so as to avoid lacerating the soft parts, which he, at the same time, gently but steadily presses back until he exposes and divides the tendo Achillis. The foot should be disarticu-11 • lated before the malleolar projections are removed, which it is always proper to do, and which may be most easily effected by passing a knife around the exposed extremities of the bones, and then savvino- off a thin slice of the tibia connectinir the two processes.* Mr. Syme directs the articular surface of the tibia always to be removed. This, certainly, should be done, if the disease has attacked the part; but, if healthy, it seems to be unnecessary. In one of the writer's cases, the extremity of the tibia was removed, but without any apparent benefit as respects the result. The following wood-cuts, of reduced size, taken from similar illustra- tions in the Monthly Jour, nal, Feb. 1850, give a more correct idea of the line of incision than can any verbal description. It will be seen that they differ very mate- rially from those given in text books. The principal precaution to be observed, is in the dissection on the posterior part of the os calcis, in order not to wound the posterior tibial artery, and thus deprive the flap of its nourishment. It is recommended by some surgeons to disarticulate be- fore dissecting the posterior flap. This proceeding in- creases the liability to wound this vessel, nor does it facilitate the ope- ration. The artery may readily be avoided by keeping the edge of the knife constantly turned from the flap towards the bone. By this means also, the operator will not be liable to puncture the posterior flap—an accident which has occasion- ally occurred, but which does no harm. * Syme's CeiUributions to Surgery.12 Pirogoff's Method. O^yeraiion.—The following description of tins metliod is taken from a London Medical Journal, and was translated from the author:—"I commence my incision close in front of the outer malleolus, carry it vertically downwards to the sole of the foot, then transversely across the sole, and lastly obliquely upwards to the inner malleolus, where I terminate it a couple of lines anterior to the malleolus. Thus all the soft parts are divided at once quite down to the os calcis. I now connect the outer and inner extremity of this first incision by a second semilunar incision, the convexity of which looks forward, car- ried a few lines anterior to the tibio-tarsal articulation. 1 cut through all the soft parts at once down to the bones, and then 2)roceed to open the joint from the I'ront, cutting through the lateral ligaments, and thus exarticulate the head of the astra- galus. I now place a small narrow amputation saw obliquely upon the os calcis behind the astragalus, exactly upon the sus- tentaculum tali, and saw through the os calcis, so that the saw passes into the first incision through the soft parts. Saw care- fully, or the anterior surface of the tendo Achillis, which is only covered by a layer of fat and a thin fibrous sheath, might be injured. I separate the short anterior flap from the two malleoli, and saw through them at the same time close to their base. I turn this flap forwards, and bring the cut surface of the OS calcis in apposition with the articular surface of the tibia. If the latter be diseased it is sometimes necessary also to saw ofi'from it a thin slice with the malleoli." Pirogofi- believes also that the tendons should not be cut oft" too short, in other words " not too near the spot where their synovial sheaths are cut through; their ends should rather pro- ject a little. If they are cut too short they conceal themselves m the fibrous canal, or what is worse, when the limb is moved they slip upwards out of their sheaths." He adds :—" I fear nothing so much as this, namely, when the belly of the musclet 13 contracts, and draws up the tendon divided, or half destroyed by suppuration, out of the sheath. I am convinced that the fixing of the tendons before and during the operation by methodical pressure, and the continuous maintenance of the limb in one and the same position by the plaster of Paris ban- dage, may contribute a great deal towards the successful result of these operations." The following description of the several steps of the opera- tion as more recently performed, is given by Mk. Croft (London Lancet^ Feb. 6, 1858), one of the surgeons of the Dreadnought Hospital, where the operation had, at that date, been performed six times. He says:— "The mode of operation, as performed by Mr. Busk, Mr. Tudor, and myself, is to grasp the projecting portion of the foot with the left hand, then to enter the point of the knife iminediatcly behind the malleolus, and make a semi-circular incision in front of the point, terminating at a corresponding point behind the opposite malleolus; next, to carry the incision downward and slightly forwards to the edge of the sole of the foot, straight across the sole, and terminate it at the opposite malleolus, or the point at which the incision was commenced. Having disarticu- lated the foot, the soft parts are to be separated from around the os cal- cis in a line from the posterior margin of the upper articulating surface to the under edge of the articulating surface of the cuboid, and the mass in front of this line to be removed by the saw. The ends of the tibia and fibula are sawn off in the way usual in Syme's operation. During the process of separating-the soft, or rather tough parts about the OS calcis, care should be taken to keep the edge of the knife close to the bone, in order to avoid wounding the posterior tibial or plantar arteries. The portion of the os calcis left on the flap should be placed in contact with the end of the tibia, and if the saw has been entered well behind the calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, and brought out at the under margin of the calcaneo-cuboid articulation, the contact will be accurate. If the bones cannot be placed in accurate contact, thin slices of bone from the upper and back part of the portion of the os calcis should be removed by the saw until they can be adapted. The saw wl prefer is Bigg and Millikcn's modification of Butcher's Dublin saw."14 REMARKS. In deciding upon the point of amputation, surgeons are very properly governed by the following simple rules :— 1st. Tbe comparative danger of the operation ; and 2nd, The comparative usefulness of the stnmp. If there were two given points at which an amputation might be performed, no prudent surgeon would select the one having the largest mortality, unless the ultimate advantages were of the utmost importance to the usefulness or happiness of the patient. Of the operations on the foot which we have passed in review, it may be said that in all which involve the parts anterior to the medio-tarsal, or Chopart's amputation, these two conditions combine to determine the sm-geou to save as much of the extremity as possible. The mortality of the operation diminishes and the usefulness of the limb increases in proportion to the amount preserved. There can be no doubt, therefore, that it is the duty of the operator to preserve as much of the anterior portion of the foot as possible. But new and important questions arise when we attempt to decide upon the value of the three remaining operations by the rules proposed. With a view to a proper appreciation of the alleged advantages and disadvantages of these amputa- tions, in order to arrive at correct conclusions as to their com- parative merits, we present the following summary of opinions by surgical authorities. Chopart's 6>/>era^!^■o?^.—Chopart's operation has now been practised nearly three-quarters of a century, and has been, during the whole period, the subject of severe criticism. On the one hand it is contended that the stump is entirely ser- viceable, that the ojieration is attended with slight mortality, and that by it an important portion of the foot is preserved. On the other, it is asserted that the stump is generally tender, very often affected with incurable ulcers, and, finally," that the extremity of the stnmp is liable to become the most depending15 portion, and the cicatrix the point of support. Some attrilnite this tendency to retraction of the lieel to the action of the feebly antagonized extensors of the foot, and others to the removal of one lialf of the arch of the foot. Whatever may be the explanation, it is certain that surgeons have constantly met with tliis position of the stump, and'endeavor to remedy it. • Within three years of its introduction. Petit divided the tendo Achillis to relieve the defect, and this operation has often been repeated since. Reports unfavorable to the operation have frequently been made by Surgical Authorities. In 1815 Villermd reported a score of cases in which the patients could walk well only from live months to two years after the operation. Bouvier recently read a paper before the Society of Surgeiy, Paris, in which he condemned Cliopart's operation in strong terms. According to him, bad results almost invariably follow in time; these patients fill the hospitals of incurables ; section of the tendon is only a temporary expedient, and the difficulty returns on its reunion; he therefoi'e advised its rejection. In reply to this communication, Chassaignac declared the amputation of Chopart to be an excellent operation, and referred to cases in which the patients walked well without division of the tendon, to others where the division of the tendon relieved the difficulty, and finally to some wdio walked freely upon the face of the stump itself. He thought the operation shunld not be rejected, but be perfected, since it was very safe; the division of the tendo Achillis is now very frequently practised, either immediately after the operation, or when the heel has been elevated and the cicatrix has become the most depending portion. The opinions of the following w^ell known authorities may be added :—Blandin asserts that lie has met with retraction of the stump but once in eleven amputations. Velpeau did not meet with retraction in five cases, and regards it as an exceptional occurrence. Nelaton approves the operation, and thinks retrac-16 tion may or may not take place ; if it occur, division of the tendo Achillis relieves it for a time at least. Mr. Fergusson and Mr. Cock, of London, have remedied this condition by division of the tendo Achillis, and do not consider it a valid objection. Mr Syme, on the contrary, seems to reject Cho- part's operation altogether. In some clinical remarks on a case upon which he was about to perform his operation, in 1852,'he • said, " There is extensive disease of the tarsus, not leaving room for the performance of Chopart's operation, even if I deemed it expedient, which I have long ceased to do, from conviction of its inferiority to that at the ankle, especially in regard to the protection afforded against relapse. In one year alone I performed three secondary amputations at the anlde to remedy the sequelae of Chopart's operation." Prof. Gross expresses himself strongly in favor of the operation. He says :—" Of the utility of this procedure, in the class of cases under consideration, there can no longer be any doubt; I have employed it several times in my own practice, and I have seen it repeatedly executed by others, and in every instance that has come within my notice, the result has been most satis- factory." Sym.e's Operation.—Syme's method is now an accepted ope- ration with the surgeons of Great Britain. Mr. Fergusson, who had operated eight times, says :—" In so far as I can judge, it is one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery as regards the subject of amputation." Mr. Erichsen remarks that it " constitutes one of the greatest improvements of recent date in operative surgery, as by its performance amputation of the leg may often be avoided, and the patient being left with an exceedingly useful stump, the covering of which being ingeniously taken from the heel, constitutes an excellent basis of support." Mr. Quain thinks the operation " free from any valid objection, and, what is more important, the result in practice has been found to be good. A person who has under- gone this operation is enabled to bear his whole weight upon17 tlie end of tlie stump without inconvenience ; and, on this account, the facility of progression is, with a proper apparatus, decidedly greater than when the amputation is performed at any higher part of the limb." On the contrary, it is alleged against this operation— 1st. That it is difficult and tedious. But Mr. Syme states that he requires less time than a minute to perform it. 2d. That the flaj) is liable to slowjh. This, liowever, rarely takes phice to any considerable extent. Mr. S_yme says :— " That the flap may, and probably will still occasiomiUy slough, is unhappily too true, but that this result is always owing to an error in the mode of performance, I think does not admit of any question. For as the integument being detached from its subjacent connexions, can derive nourishment only from the anastomosing vessels, it is evident that if scored crossways, instead of being separated by cutting parallel to the surface, the flap must lose its vitality." 3d. That there is a necessary delay in the healing of the %oound. From recent statistics it appears that union is much more prompt, in a given number of cases, in Syme's than in Chopart's amputation. Dr. Van Buren, of New York, has met with union by the first intention ; in a case which recently came under the writers observation, the patient bore her weight on the stump on the fi.fteenth day, union being at that date complete. 4th. That the stum]) is sensitive, and hence not serviceable. Mr. Syme remarks :—" Patients who had sufiered the operation, were able to stand, walk, and even run, without any covering or protection of the stump; and a gentleman present, having had his attention accidentally directed, a few days before, to some boys who were amusing themselves on a slide in the street, discovered that one of them had undergone amputation at tlie ankle joint." Dk. Van Bukkn, of New York, states that a patient recently presented himself at the College clinic of the University Medical College, on whom Mr. Syme18 performed his operation sixteen years ago, being the tiiird person on wliom the operation was performed, who stated that he had walked thirty miles in a day without inconvenience from his stump. We may add the following fact, wliich came under our own observation :—A man presented himself at Bellevue Hospital during the last winter, who had undergone amputation at the ankle joint, by Dk. Carnochan, a year or more previously. He was a book-peddler by occupation, and stated that he not unfrequently walked eight miles daily, with- out fatigue or inconvenience from his mutilated limb. He had but a very slight limp. He wore a short shoe, with the sole raised sufficiently to compensate for the loss of the foot. We may add that recent statistics show that but a single case is authenticated of a stump so sensitive as not to admit the weight of the body. Pirogqfs Ojperation.—Pirogoff claims for his method of amputation the following advantages :—1. The tendo Achillis is not divided, and we avoid all the disadvantages connected with its injury. 2. It also follows that the base of the posterior flap is not thinner than its apex, while the skin on the base of the flap remains ununited with the fibrous sheath of the tendo Achillis. 3. The posterior flap is not cap-like, as in Syme's method, and its form is therefore less favorable to a collection of pus. 4. The leg after this operation appears an inch and a half (sometimes even more) longer than in the three other ope- rations (Syme, Baudens, Roux), because the remnant of the os calcis left in the flap, as it unites with the inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula, lengthens them by an inch and a half, and, 5. Serves the patient as the point of support. Mb. Croft furnishes the following account of the six cases occurring at the Dreadnought:—" Six times the operation iuis been performed, and in four instances with most perfect success; but in the two remaining death removed the subjects of ope- ration before cure was completed—in the first instance by gra- nular disease of the kidneys, and in the second instance by19 secondary deposits of pus in various joints. In two of tlie six cases in wliicli cure was completed, tlie operation was per- foi'ined for the removal of scrofulous disease of the articulation between the tarsal bones; and in tlie two others the operation was for frost-bite of the anterior part of the foot. Progress towards health was marked by snppnration along the tendons of the tibialis anticns and posticus, and the peroneal tendons in each of the cases, but not by exfoliation of bone. The posterior part of the os calcis was united firmly with the tibia, generally in about three weeks; but in one instance—the hist in which the operation was performed—union was good at the end of twelve days. I may here remark, that although the os calcis may be diseased at and about its articidation in instances of scrofulous disease of the joints of the tai-sus, it is rarely that the posterior part is rendered too unhealthy to be made use of in the formation of a stump. The advantages of this operation over " Syme's" (the only operation with which it can be com- pared) are, that it may be performed more rapidly as to time, leaves a more vascular flap, forms a longer stump, and produces a firmer pad for the suljject to walk upon. Less time is occu- pied in the operation, for the somewhat troublesome dissection of the skin of the heel from the os calcis is avoided, and the os calcis sawn through instead. Greater vascularity of the flap is secured, for the plantar arteries are divided in the hollow of the foot. The length of the stump is a very important point; it is longer than in Synie's operation, by the portion of the os calcis left on the flap, which should be cpiite one inch and a quarter. In the four instances mentioned, the diflference in length between the foot operated upon and the sound foot, was never more than three eighths of an inch." Mr. Bosk, of the same hospital, who has operated three times, says, " Greater facility and rapidity of execution ; less disturb- ance of the natural relations of tlie parts which are to form the cushion of support; a solid instead of a hollow flap ; and, lastly, a greater length of stump, amounting to at least one inch and20 a half—are such recommendations as few will be found to deny, and against which nothing, so far as I can perceive, is to be opposed." In regard to the liability to non-union of the fragment of os calcis, we have the following testimony. Pirogotf says of his first three cases, " notwithstanding the suppuration and considerable gravitation of pus into the flap in the third case; notwithstand- ing the softness and fatty degeneration of the os calcis, which could be cut with the knife, in the second case; and lastly, not- withstanding the bleeding fungous excrescences which formed on the bones, also in the second case ; still the remains of the os calcis united firmly with the tibia and fibula. Lastly, one of the cases, the third, proves that the exarticulation at the ankle joint after my method—at least in children and young people— may be undertaken even in cases of diseased ankle joint, pro- vided disorganization has not extended too far over the soft parts about the articulation. In the boy in the second case, I found pus in the capsule during the operation, the cartilages softened and decayed, the ends of the bones also softened, and in a state of fatty degeneration, yet the result of the operation was most successful." Mr. Busk says:—" Some have feared that the section left of the calcaneum would uot readily unite with the extremity of the tibia; but this fear is groundless. In the last operation performed by Mr. Tudor union was found to be quite firm on the twelfth day In my first case the man could support his whole weight on the stump within a fortnight." A correspondent of a London Medical Journal thus records an interview with Mr. Syme: "Mr. Syme spoke of it (Piro- goff's operation) with much contempt, alleging tliatthe retained extremity of the os calcis would, in the first place, be likely to act as a foreign body, and cause irritation, and that even if good union were obtained tlie limb would be too long to be useful. I say that some of the best stumps that I have ever seen have been obtained by it, and that so far from the21 portion of os caleis acting as a foreign body, it usnally unites easily and firmly to the tibia. In London tlie operation lias been performed by Mr. Ure of St. Mary's, by Mr. Simon of St. Thomas, by Messrs. Busk, Tudor, and Croft at tlie Dread- nought, and by Mr. Fergusson and Mr. Partridge in King's College; all of whom have, I believe, been, on the whole, well satisfied with its results. At the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Dr. McGhee, the Medical Superintendent, showed me a case in which it had been performed seven weeks previously. The stamp was just healed, and promised to be an excellent one. It was, I understand, the first case in Glasgow in which that operation had been adopted." The objections generally raised to -this operation, are thus summed up by Mr. Syme, in comparing it with his own method. He alleges that " this operation deprives kis of all its advan- tages in the first place, by rendering it complicated instead of extremely simple; secondly, by making the stump too long; thirdly, by imjjairing its constitution ; fourthly, by retaining a portion of the osseous tissue justly liable to the suspicion of relapse; and fifthly, by not being applicable to all cases requir- ing amputation at the ankle." The preceding opinions quoted from surgeons who have had experience in this operation, prac- tically refute these objections. They all regard Pirogofi:''s ope- ration as the more simple; the greater length of the limb is considered an advantage to the poor man who has no artificial limb ; the stump is thought to be more sound and serviceable; the liability of the osseous portion of the flap to necrosis is denied; it is deemed applicable to all cases suitable for Syme's operation, provided only the posterior portion of the os calcis is not diseased. Pirogolf's operation has now been performed upwards of twelve times by the surgeons of Great Britain ; and all who have ope- rated, have spoken favorably of it.22 GENERAL APPKECIATION OF THE ABIPUTATIONS OF CHOPART, 6YME, AND PIROGOFT. TakiDs^ the foi-egoii!<? facts as the basis of an appreciation of the comparative merits of these several operations, with such suggestions from experience as may occur to us, we are pre- pared to determine their relative value, and definitively apply the rules in operative surgery already stated. 1st. The Ojjeration decidedhy Comparative Mortality.—Sta- tistics do not determine with sufficient accuracy the compara- tive mortality of these several amputations. It does not appear that the influence of the diseases or accidents for which ampu- tation was undertaken, upon the mortality, is estimated in these summaries. Chopart's operation has always been regarded as attended WMth very little danger. In Mr. Sj'me's ex- tensive experience in his own operation, the mortality is almost nominal. He states that he regards it as no more fatal than amputation of the finger; in 40 cases, he had but one death, and that was not fairly attributable to the operation. From our own observations we should not regard Syme's operation as any more fatal than Chopart's, in the same individual cases. jSlor can we believe, if we attach proper importance to tlie opinions of the eminent surgeons who have practised Pirogoff's method, already brought forward, that independently of the co-existent disease or injury, this operation is more dangerous than either of the two preceding amputations. • All speak with great confidence of its safety. If to the fore- going facts we add the additional consideration, that the danger in all these operations is for the most part the same, viz. the liability to suppurative inflammation in the sheaths of the divided tendons, we can but believe that the actual mortality from the three operations is not widely different. We may conclude, therefore, that— The comparative mortality of Chojyart's, Syme's, and Piro- goff's amjmtations is too slight to influeiice the Surgeon in his selection.23 2d. The indwidual operation should he determined l>y the Serviceahleness of the Stuvip.—This question iuvolvcfi, accord- ing to previous rules in determining the puint of election in amputations, the social condition of the patient. The poor man's and the rich man's leg have long decided the point of amputation of the lower extremity. This distinction is made in the belief that the poor nuui will either have no artificial appliance to his stump, or one of the rudest character, while the I'ich man will avail himself of the hi<2;hest decree of art to compensate his loss. This question must always present itself to the military surgeon, if the rule remains valid, for in the ranks of every army we find, as in society at large, persons filling every grade of social position. In our time, when mechanical surgery is doing so much to supply the maimed Avith serviceable limbs, and in this country, where public and private charity is so lavish in the relief of sufiering, and the poorest may, by economy, accumulate wealth, the question may Avell be mooted if this old rule in operative surgery should longer govern the surgeon. Especiall}'' may we doubt its propriety, when the subject of the operation is under middle life. The instances are becomino; more and more frequent where persons in humble circumstances, who have had a limb removed according to this rule, have subsequently been able to supply themselves with artificial aids, and have bitterly regretted that they have been deprived of the opportunity by the surgeon. It cannot be denied that in such cases the rule has operated to the serious disadvantage of the patient. We must conclude, therefore, that Avith American surgeons this rule should be modified thus: Under cdl circumstances, except where poverty and aduayiced age, and confirmed dissolute habits, so comhine in the indivi- dual, as to render it certain that mechanical appliances would 1)6 of little service, give the patient the stump best adapted to the most useful artificial limb. The two following questions grow out of this conclusion :24 1st. Of the three above-mentioned operations, which gives the most useful stump for progression without aid? 2d. Which affords the best stump for artificial apjdiances? In regard to Chopart's amputation, it has been seen that the testimony of surgeons is very conflicting as to the usefulness of the stump. It cannot, we think, be denied, that it has frequently required subsequent interference, such as division of the tendo Achillis, a support under the anterior part of the stump, &c., in order to prevent such a degree of retraction of the heel as would bring the cicatrix to the most dependent part. Indeed, no one can examine the normal relations of the tarsal bones without being struck with tlie fact, that by this operation more than half of the anterior part of an arch is removed, leaving the remaining portion to sustain the entire weight which before belonged to the whole. It could scarcely result otherwise than that, in a well-formed foot, the posterior half of the arch would fall under the superincumbent weight. If we add to this, the constant elevation of the heel by the powerful and feebly anta- gonized muscle of the calf, we can only be surprised that in time every stump of this kind is not turned with its face down- wards. And it must be admitted by the most ardent advocates of this operation that in some instances it has been found im- possible to remedy these defects, and patients have remained permanently unable to bear their weight upon the stump. It has been alleged, as already noted, that in Syme's operation the stump is often so tender that the patient cannot bear his -weight upon it. Such an opinion would seem to be rather theoretical than practical. We do not know of any well- founded proofs that such a result follows. On the contrary, Mr. Syme's testimony, as we have already stated, coincides with our own experience, that the stumps are capable of great endurance. Of Pirogoff's operation we cannot speak as confi- dently, from want of sufficient evidence; but it will be seen in the preceding pages, that so far as we have obtained the opinions of those who have had the most experience, the stumps, when25 firmly liealed, are capable of sustaining any desiiable degree of direct use. It must not be overlooked, liowever, that sinuses occasionally form, leading to carious bone, which long remain a serious drawback to the usefulness of the stump. ~We are authorized in concluding:— That the stvmj) after Syme'^s or Pirogofs ojKration is the most serviceable, without artificial aid I jyreference hciny given to the former. The question of adapting artificial limbs to these several stumps mainly rests with those engaged in mechanical sur- gery. So far as we have been able to ascertain the fticts, Syme's operation gives much the best stump for an artificial extremity. Although a foot can be supplied cheaply in Chopart's amputation, yet it but poorly remedies the defect, and does not improve the patient's power of walking. An artificial limb may be applied to Syme's stump, Avhich both relieves deformity, and renders the patient's gait free from the slightest halt. The following opinion of an intelligent mecha- nical surgeon, of great experience, is worthy of nolice:— 'Among the numeroiis instances of mutilated feet through the tarsus, which fall to our care for treatment, it is seldom that we are able to designate a perfectly satisfactory stump, one to be preferred to what might have been made of parts conti- guous. Nine-tenths of the mutilations, as by Chopart, present one or more of the following diagnostics, to wit: First, of an insufficient covering; caries, more or less, of the remaining tarsal bones; ulceration of the surrounding soft jiarts, or that of ft thin shining pellicle of covering, exceedingly susceptible, quickly inflamed, and abi'aded by the least exposure, which renders it hazardous or diflicult to attempt the application of any substitute. Second, a total inability to flex the stump, and to preserve its normal position at a right angle with the line of the leg; a morbid contraction of the gastrocnemii muscles (without antagonism), and retraction of the heel; a pendent position of the end of the stump, and exposure of the cicatrix26 to be pressed to tlie ground by the weight of the body, with its general inutility for walking. No possible advantage can be obtained by an amputation of the foot which involves in the sacrifice the greater portion of tlie tarsus, but what will be largely enhanced by a well-timed operation at the anUe-joint, after the mode of Mr. Syme : therefore, by every consideration of humanity and art, I am led to regard that site as the one which should be designated as the seoond place of electiox." We are not aware tliat any artificial limb has yet been devised for the stump after Pirogoff's amputation. We may add, that those skilled in tbe manufacture of artificial limbs consider this stump very poorly adapted for a useful mecha- nical contrivance. We conclude:— That the stump after Syme^s amputation is much letter adapted for an artificial ^appliance than that 7'esidting from either Chopart^s or Pirogoff's operation. After Treatment.—The subsequent treatment of operations of the foot is of great importance, as regards their ultimate success. Although immediate union is always desirable, yet it is not always attainable, even under the most favorable circum- stances, as where operations are performed in the immediate vicinity of lacerated wounds, as must frequently occur in attempts to save fragments of the foot. Union by granulation cannot be anticipated. In view of the liability of the wounds left after amputations through the foot, and the excision of bones, to suppuration, and the consequent dangers of pycemia, the practice of leaving them open to heal by granulation^ is becoming more and more general. The process of cure pro- ceeds more favorably in a given number of cases thus treated, than when the wound is at once closed ; and the cicatrix which forms under these circumstances is both symmetrical and useful. We deem it advisable also, in Syme's amputation, not to close the wound immediately. Owing to the constant oozing of blood in four cases performed in Bellcvue Hospital the stump27 was not dressed for several liours. The limb was placed in an elevated j^osition, and cold water freely applied. The advantages of this delay were evident; the deep cavity formed by the extremity of the heel in the posterior flap contracted to a small size, which, with the complete cessation of the oozing of blood, removed the danger following its collection and dis- organization in this situation. In every instance when the wound was dressed, the posterior flap was found as warm as the leg, and quite as sensitive to the prick of the needle, showing that its vascular and nervous supply was undiminished. The only other fact worthy of notice in the after treatment, was the daily injection of tepid water and disinfecting fluids into the cavity of the stump while suppuration continued. By these means the internal surface of the wound was cleansed, and the process of granulation and adhesion promoted. GENERAL CONCLUSIONS. I. In all amputations of the Lower Extremity, the Surgeon should be GOVERNED IN TDE SELECTION OF THE POINT OF OPERATION AND THE METHOD TO BE ADOPTED— 1. By THE Mortality of the operations in question; 2. By the adaptability of the Stump to the most serviceable artificial LIMBS. II. In all injuries of the Foot, involving parts anterior to the Medio- tarsal articulation, the Surgeon should sacrifice as little as possible of THE structures essential to progression. He should preserve 1. Single Phalanges, the importance of which increases from the small to the great toe : 2. The Metatarsus, by amputation of the Phalanges, or by the Exci- sion OF individual Metacarpal bones ; 3. The Tarsus, by amputation at the Tarso-Metatarsal articulation (Hey's or Lisfranc's method). III. Of the amputations through the Tarsus or at the Ankle-Joint,28 PREFERENCE SHOULD BE GIVEN TO SyMe's OPERATION AS AFFORDING A MINIMUM Mortality, with a Stump best adapted to an ARTiFiCLiL limb. IV. In the after treatment of the amputations and resections a6ove considered, it is good practice to leate the wounds open to heal by granulation. STEPHEN SMITH, M.D., CJuiirman. VALENTINE MOTT, M.D. GURDON BUCK, M.D. JOHN WATSON, M.D. ALFRED C. POST, M.D. WILLARD PARKER, M.D. ERNEST KRACKOWIZER, M.D. W. H. VAN BUREN, M.D.iI t I I ISANITARY COMMISSION. G.THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. H. REPORT OF A (irommittcf of Utt ^jijioriat^ pcrtical ^Icmbcr*! OF THI< UNITED STATICS SANlTAllY COMMISSION, ON THE SUBJECT OF VENEREAL DISEASES, WITH SPECIAL RKFERhNCE TO PRACTICE IX Till': ARMY AND NAVY. SKCOND EDITION. PRINTED FOR CIRCULATION BY THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. 1865.Washington, Dec. 6, 1862 Secretary. The attention of The United States Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities tliey have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach any thing that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of pre[)aring papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " Venereal Diseases" belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by the Commission to the medical officers of our army now in the field. FiJED. Law Oi-msted,VENEREAL DISEASES- It is in the liighest degree gratifying to be able to assert, upon tlie antliority of tlie reports of the sni'geons of tlie United States army now in the field, that in modern times there has never been collected so large a body of men. among whom venereal diseases have prevailed to so small an extent. Since, however, this class of diseases is still a fruitful source of the disqualification of men for active service, the following attempt has been made, at the request of the Sanitary Commission, to embody, in as brief a space as possible, the teachings of mod- ern science upon this subject, with special reference to the wants of army surgeons. SECTIO^sT 1. PREVENTION OF VENEREAL DISEASES. The following regulations, enforced in the Belgian army, have been found by experience to render venereal diseases " by far less frequent." So far as practicable, they are worthy of adoption in our own army. 1. Evciy soldier who contracts venereal disease, should be required to give the name and address of the woman who in- fected him ; and if, upon examination, she be found diseased, her removal from the neighborhood should be enforced by the military authority. 2. Every inducement should be jiresented to lead men to report themselves at the earliest possible moment after infec- tion ; and delay should be visited with appropriate penalties. 3. No person with any venereal disease, however slight, should be allowed to remain in quarters, but bo at once trans- ferred to the hospital.VENEREAL DISEASES, 6 TIIEEE FOEMS OF VENKEEAL DISEASE. There are three separate and distinct venereal diseases, viz., Gonorrhoea, the Simple Chancre, or Chancroid, witli its at- tendant bubo, and Syphilis, including the initial lesion, or true chancre, and general symptoms. The first two are local, and the last a constitutional affection. SECTION II. GONOKKHffiA, AND ITS COMPLICATIONS. 1. The idea that gonorrhoea is dependent upon the syphilitic virus, and requires the use of mercurials, is without founda- tion. "To compel an unfortunate patient to undergo a course of mercury for a disease which does not require it, is a proceed- ing which reflects dishonor and disgrace upon the character of a surgeon."—(Sir Astley Cooper on the Use of Mercury in Gon- orrhoea at Guy's Hospital.) 2. The treatment adapted for most cases of gonorrhoea con- sists of injections of a weak solution of some astringent, as from one to tliree grains of the sulphate, or acetate, of zinc to the ounce of water, repeated every four to six hours. Inter- nally, a free purge at the outset, followed by la.xatives if neces- sary to insure a daily evacuation from the bowels; alkaline mixtures, as solutions of the carbonates of soda or potassa, the acetate or clilorate of potassa, liquor potassas, &c., and copaiva or cubebs. 3. Wlien the symptoms are decidedly inflammatory, they should first be subdued by rest, cathartics, and low diet, before resorting to injections. Injections are also contra-indicated in cases complicated with prostatitis, or cystitis. 4. Copaiva and cubebs should be "given in somewhat full doses from the outset of their administration, but. at the same tune, care should be taken not to carry them to the degree of intolerance. Excessive action upon the bowels should^be re- strained by opiates or astringents, in order that their active principle maybe eliminated by the kidneys and pass oif in the nnne. They should be suspended if they occasion iincon-7 VENEREAL DISEASES. trolliible nausea or diarrluca, a cntaiieons eruption, severe pain in tlie kidneys, or general debility. Useful formula are the following: I^. Copaivre, Spt. tetheris nitrici, aa 3 j, Liquo- ris potassse 3 ij, Spt. lavandulfe comp. 3 ij, Syrupi acacias 3 vj. M. (Lafayette mixture). A taUe.^poonful three times a day. IJ. Pulveris cnbebas 3 viiss, Pulveris aluminis3ss. M. This quantity to le taken daily in three doses. Copaiva solidified by magnesia (IG parts to 1 by weight), and made into boluses, is a convenient mode of administration. 5. Medication, both external and internal, should be con- tinued for ten days after all discharge has ceased. 6. The " abortive treatment" of gonorrhoea is adapted only to the commencement of the disease, before acute symptoms have set in. The best formula for its administration is a weak so- lution of nitrate of silver- (gr. j ad aquse 3 ij), injected every two hours until the discharge becomes thin and watery (which usually takes place within twenty-for hours), and then omitted. Copaiva may be given simultaneously. 7. Chordee may be prevented by drachm doses of the tinc- ture of camphor in water, taken at bedtime. 8. Commencing abscesses along the course of the urethra ftliould be opened as soon as detected, even before fluctuation (tan be felt. r>. Acute prostatitis may be recognized by frequent and painful micturition, a throbbing pain in the perineum, and more or less general febrile excitement; and the finger intro- duced 7^6;'(/»?^m detects the enlarged and sensitive gland en- croaching upon the rectum. Retention of urine frequently ensues, and requires the introduction of a catheter. When the instrument reaches the prostatic portion of the urethra, it ex- cites great pain, and meets with an obstruction, due to the swollen gland, which is readily overcome by gentle and con- tinued pressure, tlie handle of the catlieter at the same time being depressed. This affection may terminate in resolution or in suppuration. Tlie latter is announced by repeated chills; and, if the abscess points towards the rectum, fluctuation may be detected by the finger introduced per anum • more fre- quently, however, the matter tends to escajie by the urethra.8 VENEREAL DISEASES. 10. Acnte prostatitis is to be treated at its commencement by jibsohite rest, cups followed by poultices to the perineum, warm baths, and laxatives or enemata. The bladder should be evacuated, when necessary, with the catheter. If suppu- ration ensues, the abscess should be opened at an early period in whichever direction it tends to point, either with a knife through the rectum, or with the point of a catheter through the urethra. 11. Gonorrhoea! cystitis is commonly limited to the neck of the bladder. Its symptoms are an urgent and frequent desire to empty the bladder; sharp pain attending the flow of the last drops of urine; the admixture of pus or blood with this fluid ; tenderness of the hypogastric region; pain radiating to the groins, perineum, anus, and along the course of the urethra. There is usually less febrile excitement than in acute prosta- titis. 12. Gonorrhosal cystitis is to be treated by rest, warm baths, cups, and poultices to the hypogastrium, and, internally, by saline laxatives, the carbonates of soda and potassa, the acetate or chlorate of potassa, liquor potassse, mucilage, flaxseed tea, and copaiva 13. Gonorrhoea! epididymitis (swelled testicle) is best treated by the horizontal posture; support of the scrotal organs; an emetico-cathartic, as a solution of Epsom salts and tartarized antimony, given in sufficient doses to act freely upon the bowels and maintain slight nausea; the application of leeches or cups just below the external abdominal ring, or bleeding from the scrotal veins (the patient in a standing posture, and the scro- tum compressed at its neck, either with the hand or a fillet, and bathed with hot water until its veins are well distended); and hot poultices, either of flaxseed or toliaceo leaves, to the aftected part. Evacuate any collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis; and, even in the absence of any marked degree of hydroccje. Velpeau's treatment by means of multiple puucture"s Avitli a lancet is worthy of a trial. When the acute symptoms have subsided, em])loy a more tonic regimen, and strap the affected testicle. Mild urethi-al injections are not contra-indicated by tiie occurrence of swelled testicle.VENEREAL DISEASES. 9 14. Gonorrlioeal oplitlialiiiia requires tlic sti-ictest attention to cleanliness, the frequent use of an astringent collyrium, free- dom of the bowels, and, in most eases, tonics or stimulants. The eyes should be bathed every fifteen niiiuites with a solution of a drachm of alum to a pint of tejjid water, or a decoction of poppy heads. The surgeon, at his daily visit, after thoi'oughly cleansing the mucous membrane of its purulent secretion and the adherent masses of coagulum, should snip the chemoscd portions of the ocular conjunctiva with scissors, and, after the the bleeding has ceased, pencil the whole affected surface either with the solid crayon of nitrate of silver, or with a strong so- lution of the same salt (3j—5j ad aqujB 3 j), washing off the residue with tepid water, as soon as the surtace has become whitened. In addition, a solution of five grains of nitrate of silver to the ounce of water, may be dropped in the eye three or four times a day b_y the attendant. An active purge at the outset of treatment is desirable, and a daily evacuation of the bowels should be secured. The ffreat danger to vision is from ulceration and slou2;h of the cornea, a tissue of low vitality, and a disastrous termination of the disease is favored by a low condition of the general sys- tem ; hence all depressing agents, as venesection, mercurials, tartarized antimony, abstinence from food, etc., are to be avoided, and a nourishing diet, porter, ale, quinine, and other tonics, to be enjoined. If ulceration of the cornea occui's, its progress may perhaj)s be arrested by lightly touching the surface with a pointed crayon of nitrate of silver; and the pupil should be kept coiistautly dihited with atropine or belladonna. Poultices of every kind are to be strictly prohibited, and the eye left un- covered. Tlie discharge is highly contagious, and the utmost caution should be used to prevent its coming in contact with a sound eye.VENEREAL DISEASES. 10 SECTION III. THE SIMPLE CHANCKIC AND ITS ATTENDANT BUBO. 1. The simple chancre, for many years confounded with true sypliilis, is now known to be an entirely distinct affection, local in its character, and not requiring the use of mercury in its treatment. We are indebted for the demonstration of this fact to Bassereau, who, by an extensive comparison of individuals bearing venereal ulcers with the persons who infected them, has shown that when the disease remains local in the former, it was likewise so in the latter; and, on the other hand, that if it aff'ects the general system in the one, it has done the same in the other; and this result has been confirmed by Ricord, Fournier, Clerc, Caby, Dron, Rollet, and Diday, of France; by Mr. Henry Thompson, Mr. Henry Lee, and Victor de Meric, of London, and numerous other observers. Independently of clinical experience, therefore, the distinct nature of the simple chancre and of true syphilis rests upon the same proof that is relied upon by naturalists in the determination of species in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, viz., upon the immutability of their characteristic features in successive generations. But, above all, the recognition of this truth is sustained by clinical experience, which shows that a wide disparity exists between one class of cases in which, even without the administration of mercury, the disease disappears forever with the healing of the ulcer; and another class, in which, without mercurials,^general symptoms are sure to make their appearance, and, under the best-directed treatment, relapses may occur at any period of the remaining life of the individual. Moreover, the explana- tion formerly given of this disparity, that it was due to a dif- ference of idiosyncrasies, is found not to bear the test of ex- amination ; and we are forced to the conclusion that the term sypliilis, as used until a very recent date, embraces two distinct aff'ections. To the one which is local in its character, the name of simple, soft, or non-infecting chancre, or chancroid, is now given; the term syphilis being retained exclusively for the constitutional disease.VENKRKAL DISEASES. 11 2. The diajrnostic (iluiraetcrs of tlie siin]-)lc ehaiici'e and tlie infecting cliuncre (tlio initial lesion of true syphilis) are the fol- lowing: SIMPLE CHANCRE. Origin.—Always derived from a sim- ple chancre, or virulent bulw. Its first appearance generally witliin a week alter contagion. Anatoiiiiad Chfirncters.—Generally multiple, either from the first or by successive inoculation. An excavated ulcer, perforating the whole thickness of the skin or mucous membrane. Edges abrupt and well-defined, as if cut with a punch, not adliering closely to subjacent tissues. Surface flat but uneven, "worm eaten," whollj' covered with grayish .secretion. No induration of base, unless caused by caustic or other irritant, or by sim- ple inflammation; in wliich case the engorgement is not circumscribed, shades off into surrounding tissues, and is of temporary duration. Pulhdkxjirjil Tendencies.—Secretion copious and purulent, inoculable. Slow in healing. Often spreads and takes on phagedenic action. May affect the same person an in- definite number of times. Chardctnrintic Gland Affection.— Ganglionic reaction absent in a large |)rop')rtion of cases. When present, one ghmd accutely inflamed, and gener- ally suppurates. Pus olten inoculable, producing asol't chancre. rNFECTING CnANCRE. Origin.—Always derived from an in- fecting chancre or secondary lesion. Its first appearance often from one to five weeks after contagion. An(domic<d Characters.—Generally single; multiple, if at all, from the first; rarely, if ever, by successiv(,' in- oculation. Frequently a superficial erosion : not involving the whole thickness of the, skin or mucous membrane, of a red color, and nearly on a level with the surrounding surface. Sometimes an ulcer, when its Edges are sloping, hard, often ele- vated, and adhere closely to subjacent tissues. Surface holh)wed or scooped out, smooth, sometimes grayish at centre. Induration firm, cartilaginous, cir- cumscribed, movable upon tissues be- neath. Sometimes resembles a layer of parcliment lining the sore. Gener- ally persistent for a long period. Pcdhologicnl Tendencies.—Secretion scanty, chiefly serous ; inoculable with great difliculty, if at all, upon the pa- tient or upon any person under the sypliilitic diathesis. Less indolent than the chancroid. Phagedena rarely supervenes, and is generally limited. One attack afi'ords complete or par- tial protection against a second. Charnctcristic Gland. Affection.—All the superficial inguinal ganglia on one or both sides, enhirg(>d and indurated ; distinct from each other, freely mova- ble ; painless, and rarc^ly suppurate. Pus never inoculable.VKXERKAL DISEASES. 12 Prognosis.—Always alociil affection, and cannot infect tlie 83-stem. " Spe- cific" treatment by mercury and iodine alw ays useless, and, in most cases, in- jurious. Prognosis.—A constitutional affec- tion. Secondary syTnjjtoms, unless pre- vented or retarded by treatment, declare themselves in about six weeks from tlie appearance of tlie sore, and very rarely delay longer than three months.* 3. Wlien in doubt as to tlie nature of the venereal ulcer, treat it as a soft chancre, and keep the patient under observation nntil the period of incubation of general symptoms has passed. This rule is justified by the following considerations : a. Statistics show that there are four simple to one infecting cliancre; hence, in a given case, the probabilities are in favor of the sore being of the former species. h. Even if the sore should chance to be an infecting chancre, tlie administration of mercury will not prevent contamination of the general system, which has already taken place. More- over, nothing is lost by delay, since syphilis is equally amena- ble to treatment after the appearance of secondary as after primary symptoms. c. We are not justified in subjecting a patient to a mercurial course uidess the necessity of it is apparent. d. An immediate resort to mercurials leaves the case in doubt, since there are no means of determinino' whether the subsequent immunity is due to the treatment or to the nature of the sore; and as it is not a matter of indifference whether a man has or has not in liis system the germ of constitutional syi)liilis, no measures should be adopted which will leave the question undecided. -f. Cicatrization of a soft chancre may take place spontane- ously, and is not hastened by the use of mercury. The most effective treatment consists in the destruction of the local sore by means of a powerful caustic; and the earlier this is applied the better the cliances of success. For this reason, and also for the purpose of preventing the communication of the dis- ease to others, venereal ulcers should be destroyed at the * The Pathology and Treatment of Venereal Diseases; including the results of recent investigations upon the subject. By F. J. Bumstead. M. D. 18G1.—VKXKREAL DISEASES. 13 cMi'licst possible period, even l)efore tlieir nature has been de- termined. ;■). For the destruction <^t" siui])le chancres, nitrate of silver, as commonly employed, is unreliable, and, in most cases, in- adequate. Fuming nitric acid is the most convenient agent, and if the fall of the eschar fails to leave a healthy surface, the application should be repeated. (i. Cleanliness is of the first iuiportance, and that dressing is commonly the best which accomplishes this in the most pei'fect manner. Any collection of the secretion upon the surface of the sore, or upon neighboring i)arts, and the fnrmation (if s(-abs, should be avoided. Lotions are preferable to ointments, and may consist of simple water, a solution of tannic acid (gi'. iij ad aqun? 3 j), a drachm of Labarra(|ue's solution of chlorinated soda to two ounces uf water ; or a di-achm of dilute nitric acid to eight ounces of water; and the di'essing should be kept moist by being covered with oiled silk. Chancres beneath the pre- puce will heal much more speedily, if the glans be uncovered and the sore dressed with wet lint covered with oiled silk, and a circular i)and;ige around the jieiiis. 7. Phagedenic ulceration is tar n)ore likely to attack a simple than an infecting chancre, and is favored by a low state of the general system, however induced, and by a scrofulous diathesis. It is to be treated by [)lacing the patient in the most favorable hygienic coixlitiim, by a nourishing diet, tonics, as the various preparations of iron in large doses, o])ium, and the free cauteri- zation of the ul(;er with nitric acid, Vienna paste, or the actual cautery. A solution of the potassio-tartrate of iron (3 ij ad a(pia? 3 ij) is a valuable local a])plication. The intei'nal use of mercury is highly injurious, 8. A simple chancre may or may not react upon the neigh- boring lymphatic glands. In the foi-mer case it gives rise to an inflammatory bubo, which may be either simple (containing simple pus), or vii-ulent (containing pus capable of inoculation). The two varieties cannot readily l)e distinguished except bj artiiicial inoculation, nor is their diagnosis of much practical importance. The former may sometimes be aborted by rest, the application of tincture of iodine, or a strong solution of14 VENEREAL DISEASES. nitrate of silver (3 iij ad aquas f j); or by pressure, by means of coin])ressed sponge and a spica bandage. The latter always terminates in suppuration. ,• 9. As soon as fluctuation can be detected, the abscess should be opened, either by several small punctures, followed by an injection of the cavity with a solution of sulphate of zinc (gV. iij ad aquse 3 j ), or one part of tincture of iodine to four of water, and pressure, by means of a compress and spica ban- dage, be employed to insure adhesion of the walls; or the ab- scess should be freely opened by a vertical incision (not parallel to the inguinal fold), and the cavity, stuffed with lint, be loft to heal b_y granulation. 10. Suppuration in a bubo affords a probability, although not an absolute certainty, that the accompanying chancre is of the simple, non-infecting species; since it is a general but not invariable rule, that syphilis does not follow an open bubo. SECTION IT. SYPHILIS. 1. The term "syphilis" is used here to the exclusion of the local affection just referred to. The symptoms of this disease are commonly divided into primary (including the initiatory chancre and accompanying induration of the glands), and general (including the so-called secondary and tertiary mani- festations). 2. A true chancre is the initiatory lesion of acquired syphilis, appearing at the point where the virus entered the system, and separated from the general manifestations of the disease by a period of incubation pertaining to the hitter. Analogy would show that a chancre, like the vaccine vesicle, is already the re- sult of absorption of the virus and of infection of the constitu- tion, and not a mere local disease ; hence that its abortive treat- ment by destructive cauterization is incapable of averting general syphilis; hence, also, that it should receive the same general treatnient as the latter manifestations of the diathesis. Clinical experience conlirms this view, since thorough destruc-15 VENEREAL DISEASES. tion of a chancre six liours after its first appearance, has failed to avert general symptoms. The period of incubation possessed by the true chancre, and the fact that it is not inoculable upon the patient, point to the same conclusion. Experience also proves that the cicatrization of chancre, un- like that of a chancroid, is hastened by the internal use of mer- cury. Tliis sore, tliei'efore, demands the same internal treat- ment as general syphilis. 3. The same form of local dressing may be nsed for the true chancre as for the chancroid. 4r. Induration of the neighboring lymphatic glands (indu- rated bubo) is one of the most valuable indications of an infect- ing chancre, and is always present, except, perhaps, in very rare instances. This bubo is conimoidy free from inflammatory action, and hence may pass unnoticed by the patient. It de- mands no special treatment, except in those unusual cases in which inflammation and suppuration take place, when the same treatment should be adopted as that ah-eady recommended for inflammatory buboes. Tl:e persistency of the induration for a long time after the primary sore has healed, is of great value in indicating the seat of the sore, and in unravelling the history of obscure cases. 5. There is always an interval between the appearance of the chancre and of the general manifestations of syphilis. This period of incubation of general sj'mptoms, so called, is fixed within certain bounds, like tlie incubation of other infectious diseases. Its average duration is six weeks; it rarely exceeds thi'ee, and never six months ; its shortest duration is about tliree weeks. A venereal ulcer will, therefore, be followed l)y gen- eral symptoms, if at all, probably within three, and certainly within six months. It is to be understood that this rule applies only to cases in whicli the natural course of the disease has not been interfered with by specific treatment. The administration of mercury for the primary sore may retard or altogether pre- vent the appearance of general symptoms. 6. Early general symptoms, especially in the absence of treatment of the preceding chancre, are very uniform in their ciharactei', and commonly consist of an eruption of blotches or16 VENEKEAL DISEASES. papula3 upon the skin, pnstules npun the sculp, swelling of the glands of the nncha, opaline patches (mucous patches) upon the mucous menibi-ane of tlie mouth and fauces, condylomata about the anus, and alopecia, attended often by general malaise, headache, and fleeting pains in various parts of the body (more particularly in the neighborhood of the j<jints), which are most severe at night. These symptoms are especially worthy of re- membrance, since they are often of so slight a character as not to fix the attention of the patient himself, aud they should be carefully watched for after the occurrence of any venereal ulcer, the diagnosis of which was uncertain. 7. The secretion of secondary symp)toms cannot, as a general rule, be inoculated upon the patient or upon any person under the syphilitic diathesis, but is contagious to individuals free from such taint. This rule is equally true of the secretion of the pri;nary sore or chancre, and is the same that obtains in other infectious diseases, as small-pox, vaccinia, etc. Syphilis contracted from a secondary lesion pursues the same course as when contracted frou] a primary lesion, commencing in both cases with a chancre. 8. The remedies required for the treatment of syphilis are, for the most part, included under the head of mercurials, the compounds of iodine, and tonics. 9. Mercurials exercise their greatest power over the primary sore, and over early or so-called secondary symptoms. The action of the iodides is limited almost exclusively to the late or tertiary lesions. It is a mistake, however, to suppose that the compounds of iodine are alone sulHcient for the permanent cure of even tertiary lesions, which are very prone to relapse, unless mercury has also entered into the treatment. The iodides are, therefore, to be regarded as temporary substitutes for, or as the adjuvants of, mercurials in the treatment of syphilis. They are of special value in syphilitic afiections of'the bones and periosteum ; also in broken-down constitutions, when mercuri- als are inadmissible until a better condition of the system has been secured. 10. The value of tonics in the treatment of syphilis cannot be overrated. Chemical analysis of the blood of syphiliticVENEREAL DISEASES. 17 subjects shows an excess of albuiiieii and a diminntion of cor- puscles; in sliurt, a condition of cliloi-o-anainiia obtains. Tlie teachings of clinical experience are still more decisive. Noth- ing HO obsti'ucts the successful treatment of syphilis, and noth- ing so conduces to a relapse after an apparent cure, as a low condition of the general system. Hence the surgeon should aim to build up, and not to pull down; and this is to be ac- complished by placing the patient under the most favorable hygienic influences, and by the use of tonics, as iron and quinine. 11. Xo one form of mercurial is adapted to all cases. The following formulffi are given as examples of those most fre- quently applicable : ^. Pil. Iljdrargyri 3 j. Ferri Sulph. Exsiccat 3 ss. Divide into 80 pills. One three times a day. I^. Hydrarg. Bichloridi gr. ij. Tiuct. (Jentiau. Comp. Jiv. M. A teaspoon- ful. J^:. Hydrarg. Protiodidi gr. x. In 20 pills. One after each meaL ^. Hydrarg. cum creta 3j. Qui- ni;e Sulphatis 3 ss. M. In 30 pills. One three times a day. IJi. Ilydj-arg. Bichloridi gr. ij. Po- tass, lodidi 5 ij. Tr. Gentian. Co. 5 ij. Aquas ^ ij. M. A teaspoonful. J^. Hydrarg. Bichloridi, Ammoni;e Muria,tis, aa gr. ij ; dissolve in a suf- ficient quantity of water and add [)0\v- dered crackej- q. b. Syrupi Acacia? q. s. M. In 30 pills. 12. The action of mercury nixni the bowels sliould, if neces- sary, be restrained by the addition of opium or astringents; and, in some instances, the internal use of the remedy must be suspended and inunction employed. 13. Salivation is to be regarded as prejudicial to the success of treatment, and should be carelully avoided; although it is often justifiable and even desirable to excite slight tenderness of the gums, in order to be sure that the full effect of the remedy has been obtained. Salivation is most suecessl'uUy treated by omitting the mercurial, securing iVeedom of the bowels, astringent gargles, and the intei-nal administration ot the chlorate of ])otassa (3j—ij per diem in solution). 14. Mercurial cachexia is rarely induced when the remedy is judiciously employed, especially if combined with hygienic ti'eatment and the use of tonics. If, however, in any case,18 VENEREAL DISEASES. after improvement continued for a time, tlie appetite begins to flag, and the patient complains of malaise and mental depres- sion, the administration of mercurials should be suspended, and afterwards resumed, if necessary to comi)lete the cure. 15. The mode of using mercury which is the least likely to produce any of the above unpleasant symptoms is by inunc- tion ; and in very many cases this method will be found su- perior to all others. Its advantages are that it rai-ely salivates ; that it leaves the intestinal canal undisturbed, and does not im- pair the appetite ; and hence that it may be used in cases of general debility and of extreme susceptibility to the morbid action of the mineral, when it is of the first importance to sus- tain the vital powers by a nourishing diet and the adminit^tra- tion of tonics, without interference. About a drachm of the ointment should be rubbed into the axilliB and upon the inner surfaces of the thighs alternately every night, and the residue removed with warm water and soap the following morning. 16. The treatment of syphilis should invariably be conduct- ed in a hospital. The dangers to be apprehended from expo- sure and hardship while pursuing a mercurial course, are too great to admit of this treatment being undertaken in camp. 17. Little need be said with regard to the use of iodide of potassium, except that this salt should enter largely into the treatment of the latter forms of syphilis, as syphilitic tubercles, gummy tumors, deep ulcerations of the fauces and larynx, and the aftections of the bones and periosteum ; but although, in some cases, it may constitute the only remedy specially directed against the diathesis, which is admissible for a time, yet in all, mercurials should be sooner or later employed. 18. Treatment should be continued until all syphilitic symp- toms have disappeared, graduating its severity according to the effect produced and the general condition of the patient; and even after the last manifestation of the diathesis has passed away, experience teaches that treatment must be still further prolonged if the patient would secure immunity for the future. 19. The limits of this essay do not permit of reference to the special treatment adaj)ted to the various sypliilitic lesions. It is desirable, however, to call attention to the importance, in19 VENEREAL DISEASES. syphilitic iritis, of keeping the pupil constantly dilated by means of a solution of belladonna (one scruple of the extra(;t to an ounce of water, strained), dropped into the eye every few- hours. Moreover, in the treatment of this affection, a combi- nation of tonics with mild mercurials (as, for instance, quinine with the gray powder) will yield far more satisfactory results than the latter alone. F. J. BuMSTEAi), M. D., Chairman. J. Mason Wakkkn, M. D. E. M. li.iDGKs, M.D. EdWAKI) IlAUlSHOliNE, M.D. J. H. Packakd, M. D. WiLLARD Parker, M.D. Wm. H. Van Buren, M. D.H.THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. J. REPORT OF A OF THE UiXITED STATES SAiMTAUY COMMISSION, ON TIIK SDEJliCT OF SKCOND EDITION. PRINTED FOK CIRCULATION BY THE UNITED STAT1<:S SANTfARY COMMISSION. 1SG5.TrTK attention of The United States Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Array Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously imposr.ible to place within their reach any thing that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " Pneumonia" belongs to this series, and is re- spectfully recommended by the Commission to the medical oflBcers of onr army now in the field. Feed. Law Olmsted, Washington, Dec. ,30, 1861. Secretary.PNEUMONIA. Of the diseases which the Army Surgeon must expect to encounter in the present nnhappy contest, pnenmonia is one of the most important. This disease lias already prevailed to a considerable extent among the troops on the Potomac and in the West; but it will, doubtless, prevail to a much greater ex- tent during the months of winter and spring. It prevails ha- bitually much more among the inhabitants of the Middle and Southern States than at the North. It will be more likely to occur among jSTorthern soldiers in a Southern climate than among native or acclimated residents. Statistics show that it occurs much oftener among those who are exposed to the vicis- situdes of the weather, than among those whose occupations involvc confinement within doors; hence, it may be expected to prevail especially among ti'oops in active service. Not only the prevalence, but the gravity of this disease is greater in the Middle and Southern than in the Northern States. A larger ratio of deaths in the former than in the latter is to be expected. In sections in which the periodical fevers are rife, pneumonia is apt to be extremely fatal. This is the uniform testimony of physicians practising in malarious regions, especially at the South. These considerations show sufficiently the importance of the subject of pneumonia, at this time, to the Army Surgeon. But others may be added. Not only has pneumonia been studied, within the last few years, with diligence and success, as regards its morbid anatomy, symptomatic phenomena, ])athological character and laws, but perhaps on no ntlicr ini])oi-timt inflam- matorv affection has clinical observation been broui^ht to bear So fully and efficiently as regards the management. In the first6 PNEUMONIA. place, abundant facts liavc been collected respecting its course when nniiifluenccd by active joedication—the true point of de- parture for the satisfactory study of therapeutics, as applied to aiiy disease. And, in the second place, data have been afforded for judging of the value of different methods of treat- ment. As a consequence, a considerable change has taken place in the opinions and practice of not a few members of the medical profession with respect to the management of pneu- monia. Therapeutical measures which, but a few years ago, were generally regarded as essential to its successful treatment, are now by many deemed often needless and hurtful. On the other hand, measures formerly considered to be uncalled for and. hazardous, are now thought to be highly important in certain cases. Believing that, after making due allowance for a tendency to pass to opposite extremes, which characterizes the fluctuations of medical doctrines, a real and truly impor- tant progress has been made of late in practical views respect- ing this disease, it is not unreasonable to suppose that, of those who have been called by the present contest from civil to mil- itary practice, some may not have given much attention to the subject, and, therefore, adhere to views which, with our present knowledge, are not tenable. Many of the medical officers of the army have seen but little of the disease, in comparison with the opportunities for observation wliich will now be opened in their new sphere of action. Moreover, most of those who are entering upon military experience have seen but little of pneu- monia as it will be presented to them in soldiers occupying the Middle and Southern States. These last-mentioned consider- ations, doubtless, have been in the minds of the members of the Sanitary Commission, at whose instance this Report is submitted. It is hardly necessary to say that the discussion of questions relating, directly or indirectly, to the management of pneu- monia, would be here out of place. The purpose of this Re- port is to premise a few propositions, embodying certain patho- logical facts, having obvious relations to the management of the disease; and, then, with reference to the leading indica- tions for treatment, and the employment of different thera-PNEUMONIA. 7 pentical measures, to present, as concisely and compactly as possible, the practical views which appear to the Committee to be most consistent with our present knowledge of the disease, and with the results of clinical experience. 1. Ordinary pneumonia, uncomplicated and not extending over more than a single lobe, does not, per se, involve much, if any, danger to life. The truth of this statement has been shown by large collections of cases in which the disease has been allowed to pursue its course without medicinal treatment, or with only palliative remedies. A fatal termination, there- fore, in such cases, must depend on circumstances incidental to the disease, or on injudicious interference. It is obvious that, when active measures of treatment are indicated in such cases, the indications are derived from the incidental circum- stances more than the disease itself. 2. The disease is much more grave, and becomes dangerous to life, when it invades more than a lobe, affecting an entire lung, or, more rarely, portions of both lungs (double pneumo- nia). The greater proportion of these cases is one of the rea- sons of the greater fatality of pneumonia at the South. In many of these cases, however, recoveiy takes place, and the symptoms do not always denote great gravity or dangei'. A source of gravity in these cases, to which attention has not been sufficiently directed, is the large amount of exudation matter deposited in the lungs. In fatal cases, in which an entire lung is solidified, the increased weight of the affected lung, due to the solidifying deposit, may be as high as four pounds. This large quantity of matter is, of course, withdrawn from the solid constituents of the blood.* 3. The complications of pneumonia account for the danger to life in certain cases. One of the most serious complications is pericarditis. This occurs oftener at the South than at the North. This complication does not render the termination necessarily fatal. Patients may recover, even when, in ad- * See Clinical Lecture, Ifcic Orleans Medical Times, March, 1861, and the JVew York Medical Times.PNEUMONIA. 8 dition to this complication, an entire Inng is involved. A de- gree of pleurisy exceeding that genei-ally co-existing with pneumonia, and attended by considerable effusion (which is rare), accounts for the danger in some cases. It may l)e re- marked here, that the coexisting pleurisy is the source of acute pain in pneumonia. Pneumonia, without pleurisy, is attended with little or no pain. Intermitting fever and pneumonia may be associated—each affection serving to mask, to a greater or less extent, the other. This complication is attended with great danger, and calls for prompt and efficient measures of treat- ment addressed to the intermitting fever. In the intemperate, delirium tremens is apt to become developed, and j)rove a serious complication, claiming efficient treatment. Choisemia, or jaundice, is occasionally an incidental event in pneumonia. It does not, however, denote an important hepatic complica- tion, and does not call for active remedies designed to act upon the liver. The propriety of recognizing " bilious pneumonia" as a variety of the disease, may fairly be questioned. 4. Pneumonia occurs as a complication, or secondary affec- tion, in the course of other diseases. Its occurrence in rubeola is not unfrequent. It is apt to occur in the continued fevers, typhus and typhoid. It adds much to the danger in these dis- eases. An important distinction is involved in typhus or ty- phoid fever, complicated with pneumonia, as compared with the so-called typhoid pneumonia. In the one case, the primary disease is the continued fever, the pneumonia being developed secondarily; in the other case, the pneumonia is the primary disease, certain symptoms becoming developed which denote what is commonly known as the typhoid condition. 5. The general and local symptoms accompanying pneumo- nia, when primary and uncomplicated, differ widely in differ- ent cases, and in these differences have originated certain va- rieties of the disease generally recognized by authors. Wlien accompanied by high febrile movement—a full, hard pulse, and a hot skin—it has been called sthenic and frank pneumonia. Examples of this variety are ofteiiest seen in young, robust sub- jects, residing in healthy rural situations ivheu, on the other hand, the phenomena belonging to symptomatic fever are notPNEUMONIA. 9 present in a marked degree, tlic pnlse and skin denoting dimin- islicd i)()\ver of the circnlation, the disease is said to be asthenic. In each of these varieties the local afFection. so fai- as it can 1)6 appreciated by the physical signs during life, or by examina- tions after death, nnay be tlie same. It is an exjn-ession of a well-known pathological fact, applicable alike to this and other inflamnnitory afl'ections, to say that, -with a similar amduiit of inflammation, different cases ditfer extremely as regards the disturbance of the system. The system appears to tolerate dif- ferently the same affection in different cases. And it is obvi- ous that the management must have reference to the condition of the system quite as much as, if not, indeed, much moi'e than, to the local affection. In cases presenting ]iassive de- lirium and adynamia, the disease is called typhoid pneumonia. Here, too, the gravity and danger relate not so much to the local affection as to the general condition ; and here, also, the treatment is to be governed more by the general symptoms than hy the degree or extent of the inflammation. 6. The rapidity with which the exudation takes place in pneumonia, sufliciently to solidify the affected portion of lung, is of importance with reference to treatment. Ditferent cases differ in this regard; but it is not nnusual to And the physi- cal signs of complete or considerable solidification (bronchial respiration and bronchophony) within twenty-foui- honi-s after the date of the attack, and frequently this occurs in the course of forty-eight hours. Ilence, were it possible to pre- vent this result, it must be by therapeutical measures, which act with a pronq^tness commensurate with the rapidit}' of the exudation. 7. Other important facts relate to the removal of the exuda- tion. It is removed chiefly, or exclusively, by absorption, not by expectoi'ation. The source of the expectoration in pneumo- nia is mostly, if not entirely, from coexisting circumscribed l)ronchitis. This fact has an obvious bearing on the use of remedies called expectorants, or, on the otliei- hand, on the use of remedies which are supposed to interfere with expectoration. It is well known that pneumonia may be completely latent so far as cough and expectoration are concerned. The removal10 PNEUMOXIA. of tlie exudation may go on with great rapidity, even wlien no active measures of treatment are employed. In tliis respect cases differ greatly. It is certain that, before the natural course of this disease had been observed, the more or less rapid dis- appearance of solidification, occurring naturally, was often at- tributed to remedies supposed to act as sorbefacients. The complete removal of the exudation, in favorable cases, leaving the pulmonary structure intact, is an important as well as highly interesting fact. The tendency to run into a chronic form, as is well known, does not belong to this disease. It is rare for it to eventuate in the third stage, or the stage of puru- lent infiltration, even in fatal cases. Abscess and gangrene are also results extremely infrequent. With a few exceptions, it may be said that resolution of the affected lung is sure to take place if the life of the patient be sufficiently prolonged. This fact has a very important bearing on the indications for treat- ment. 8. In the majority of the cases in which pneumonia proves fatal, the mode of dying is by asthenia, rather than by apnoea. The patient rarely dies in consequence of the extent to which the respiratory function is compromised. It is not unusual to observe complete solidification of an entire lung with very little embarrassment of breathing. The fatal termination is much oftener due to failure of the powers of life. This is true of the different varieties of the disease, and of cases in which the dis- ease is complicated or uncomplicated. The indications for treatment in cases of pneumonia must have regard to the stage of the disease. When patients are seen in the first stage, i. e., prior to solidification of the aftected lobe, important objects of treatment, if attainable, doubtless are the limitation of the inflammation, the prevention of exuda- tion, and the restriction of the local affection to the lobe first invaded—in other words, the arrest of the disease. Are these objects attainable? With our present knowledge, this ques- tion resolves itself into another, viz.: Will the antiphlogistic method of treatment, so called, of which blood-letting is the most prominent measure, control the disease? Clinical expe-11 PNEUMONIA. rience certainly warrants the assertion tliat this method of treat- ment cannot be relied upon for effecting the objects just named. If this method ever succeeds in arresting pneumonia, the cliance of success in any case is too small to justify its employment whenever it comes into conflict with other indications; or, in other words, whenever it will be likely to do harm if it do not succeed. Abortive measures, other than those commonly known as antiphlogistic, do not require notice, and, indeed, there are none, at the present moment, before the profession. Putting aside arrest of the disease as an object of treatment in the first stage, the inquiry arises, May not active measures, in this stage, so influence the disease as to diminish its inten- sity, and thereby the danger, aiding the patient to pass through it more safely and comfortably, if not more cjuickly, than if the measures were not employed; and will not blood-letting conduce to these desirable ends? A candid review of the dis- cussions which have taken place within the last few years re- specting blood-letting in pneumonia, together with the results of clinical experience, can hardly fail to lead to the conviction that, employed indiscriminately, it will do much more harm than good. This, it must be admitted, may be true, and yet blood-letting be useful in certain cases. Its usefulness is lim- ited to cases characterized by high febrile movement, the patients being robust or of a full habit, and, of course, the disease not advanced to the second stage, when a pound or more of solid nuitter has been withdrawn from the blood to constitute the solidifying deposit. The abstraction of blood,, if the ])ulse be strong, the skin hot, and the pain severe, Avitli more or less dyspnoea, will undoubtedly afford relief, and some- times, perhaps, place the patient in a better condition than if no' active treatment had been resorted to. But even in tlie cases to which bloud letting is to be restricted, if employed at all, may not other measures be substituted which will accomplish the same ends without the spoliative effects of that remedy? We think this question may generally be answered in the af- firmative. Blood-letting in these cases is not so much a cura- tive as a palliative remedy. It is addressed, not directly to the local aftection, but to the symptomatic febrile movement, and.12 PNEUMONIA. can only influence the local affection indirectly, in so far as the latter is intensified by the former. Now, the febrile move- ment may be not less efficiently restrained by saline purga- tives, and by the nauseant and arterial sedatives, of which an- timony and the veratruni viride may be named as the most reliabie. The salines deplete without the loss of the blood cor- puscles, or spoliation, and the sedative remedies diminish the frequency and force of the heart's action. These remedies, then, may take the place of blood-letting, certainly in the great majority of the cases in which this measure would be admissi- ble if substitutes were not to be found. Antimonial preparations and the veratrum viride are potent remedies which are only to be employed to meet certain indi- cations. They may do much harm if injudiciously or indis- criminately employed. They are indicated in cases in which the pneumonia is said to be fi-ank or sthenic. They are to be given with great circumspection when, from the previous health, the constitution of the patient, or other circumstances, danger is to be anticipated from failure of the vital powers. Tiiey are never to be cari'ied to the extent of producing marked depressing effects. The benefit to be obtained from them can be secured without these effects. They are not given to in- fluence the local affection directly, but only through their action upon the circulation. They are imperatively contra- indicated whenever the action of the heart, as represented by the strength of the pulse, denotes a tendency to failure of the powers of life. Given, or persisted in, under these circum- stances, they will contribute to the danger of death by asthenia. Relief of the acute pleuritic pain which belongs, in some cases, to the first stage of pneumonia, is an object of treatment, fvesti "ainiiig the movements of the aftected side, pain induces fatigue, from the increased frequency of the respirations, and conduces to suffering from dyspnoea. Local measures will do much towards this object. A considerable number of dry cups is an efficient measure. Wet cupping should be limited to cases in which the loss of the blood abstracted by this mode will be well borne. Stupes witli water only, or with some stimulating applica-13 PNEUMONIA. tion, such as the spirits of turpcntiiK', often afford marked re- lief. The oiled muslin jacket contributes to comfort hy keei)iiig the surface of the chest moistened with perspiration, and, if a flannel coverin"; he added, all tlie advanta<>;es of a poultice, or the water-dressing, are secured. It is hardly necessary to say that blisters are inadmissible, certainly in this stage. There need be no reluctance in prescribing opium in this stage, for the relief of pain. The value of opium for other objects will claim attention presently. If the phenomena of intermittent fever are devcloi)ed, quinia should be given promptly and in efficient doses. Tho jiaroxysms should be arrested as speedily as possible. The patient may be placed in great danger by their rcjtetition. The existence of the pneumonia and the degree of symp- tomatic febi'ile movement in no wise conflict with this impor- tant indication; indeed, so far from conflicting with it, the sedative influence of full doses of quinia may be useful, aside from the arrest of the paroxysms. In a malarious I'egion, or if the patient have been sul)ject to attacks of intermittent fever, it is judicious to forestall the possible development of the latter aftection b}' moderate doses of quinia. It is a good rule, in such cases, to commence at once with the use of this remedy, irrespective of the liability to the occurrence of inter- mittent paroxysms. The malarious cachexia impairs the power of resisting the disease; hence its greater fatality in malarious regions, even when uncomplicated with intermitting fever. The indications which have reference to the second stage of pneumonia are now to be considered. And it is to be borne in mind that this stage occurs in the vast majority of cases, and often speedily follows the attack. The change, as regards the indications, renders it important to determine when the disease has passed into the second stage—in other w'ords, when the solidification of the aftected lobe has taken place. The physical signs of solidification (bronchial respiration and bi'on- chophou}') afford reliable evidence on this point. The absence of chlorides in the urine, also, may be relied on with consider- able, but not implicit, confidence, that the process of exudation is going on.14 PNEUMONIA. In tlie second stage, so far as tlie local aifection of the lobe priinai-ilj involved is concerned, all the mischief which, in the niajoi-ity of cases, may be expected to occur, has already oc- curred. The only untoward events (exclusive of complications) which are to be apprehended are the invasion of other lobes, and possibly suppuration and gangrene. The probability of the invasion of another lobe cannot be determined, and, if this were possible, the prevention does not lie within the scope of our resources. What, then, are the objects of management in the second stage of pneumonia? It may be assumed that blood-letting is not indicated in the second stage. The nauseant and arterial sedatives may be in- dicated by the persistence of high febrile movement in certain cases ; but they are to be employed with even greater circum- spection than in the first stage, and they are not to be given for other objects than those already stated. In a large propor- tion of cases they are either uncalled for or contra-indicated in this stage. In order to answer the inquiry just made, let it be asked. What are the requirements for recovery in the second stage of pneumonia? So far as the local affection is concerned, the ex- udation is to be removed ; in other words, resolution is to take place ; and, as regards the general condition, the powers of life must be adequate to carry the patient through the processes of restoration. The objects of treatment must relate to these re- quirements. The question, then, is, What can be done to pro- mote resolution of the local affection, and what to aid the powers of life to effect recovery ? Fird; as regards resolution of the local affection. Antimo- nial preparations have been considered to contribute to this object. Laennec, ascertaining by means of physical explora- tion the i'a[)id disappearance of solidification under large doses of tartar emetic, was led to extol this remedy. But at that time cases of pneumonia without any active treatment had not been observed. It is now certain that the solidification may disap|)enr with great rapidity, not only under different reme^ dies, but when no remedy is given. Laennec and others natu- i'ally enough mistook for the efiects of medication the changes15 PNEUMONIA. ocfurring- in the natural course of tlie disease. Witli our pres- ent knowledge, preparations of antimony arc not indicated for the oI)ject under consideration. Given for this object, when uncalled for or contra-indicated by circumstances relating to the general condition, they are not merely superfluous, but hurtful remedies ; the injury, of course, being proportionate to the extent to which they are given. It is not hjng since physicians generally deemed it important to give mercury, with a view of promoting resolution, and to push this remedy to ptyalism. But clinical observation has sufficiently shown that absorption of the exuded matter goes on as well without as with mercui-ialization. There is no need, therefore, of incurring the depressing effects of this treatment. And if mercurialization be not needed, it is certainly not de- void of liarm ; for every active remedy is potent either for good or evil, and if not useful, it can hardly fail to be hurtful. Blisters are still too often employed in pneumonia in order to hasten resolution. There is no evidence that they contribute to this object, and they are highly objectionable on account of the annoyance and irritation which they are likely to occasion. Moreover, they interfere with the daily examination of the chest, by means of which alone accurate information respecting the condition of the lung is to be obtained. Remedies to promote expectoration are sometimes considered as important. This is probably based on the idea tliat the ex- pectoration contributes to the removal of the solidifying exu- dation—an idea already stated to be erroneous. Clinical observation shows that resolution may go on with great ra- pidity without any expectoi-ation. It is true that an accumu- lation in the bronchial tubes takes place in some cases, towai-ds the close of life, and doubtless contributes to a fatal result; but the accumulation is due, under these circumstances, to a degree of asthenia, impairing the muscular power necessary for the acts of expectoration, and expectorants are not adequate to afibrd relief. In short, it may fairly be doubted if, with our present knowl- edge, we are able to expedite resolution by any measures eni- plnyed directly and specially for this object. There are grounds16 PNEUMONIA. for believing tliat measures having i-eference to the general condition of the patient are tlie most etticient means of acting on tlie local affection. Second. As regards measures having reference to the gen- eral condition of the patient. Tlie most important of the pi-in- ciples of treatment in pneumonia fall under this head. Eeso- lution of the local affection may take place more or less slowly, but it will take place if the patient do not succumb. The danger in severe cases is generally not from the amount and persistence of the solidification of lung, but from the failure of the vital powers before the resolution is accomplished. Pure pneumonia is as much a self-limited affection as the essential fevers; divested of complications and accidents, it runs a def- inite career, and ends in restoration, if life be sufiiciently pro- longed. The exceptions to this statement are the rare instances in which the affection runs into the purulent stage. In the majority of fatal cases, as already stated, death is attributable more to asthenia than to apncea. These considerations, to- gether with the results of clinical experience, enforce the im- portance of the supporting treatment in pneumonia. To support the powers of life, is the leading general indica- tion in the second stage of pnenmi_jnia. This indication, in urgency, varies much in different cases. In general terms, it is urgent in proportion to the danger from asthenia. It should govern the treatment in those cases distinguished as asthenic, and whenever there are grounds for distrust of the adequate- ness of the vital powers to carry the patient safely through the disease. It is a serious mistake to defer supporting measures until the symptoms denote imminent danger from failure of the powers of life. If dcferi'ed until then, they will probably be too late. The observing and skilful practitioner will foresee and endeavor to forestall a degree of failure attended with im- minent danger. The constitution of the patient, his previous health, and his habits, are to be taken into account in judging early of the ability to sustain the disease. Other things being equal, in a warm climate jiatients are less able to sustain it than in cold or temperate climates; supporting treatment, .herefore, is oftener and earlier called for in the former than inPNEUMONIA. 17 the latter. The phmtation netrro at tlie South is less able to sustain it than the white man, and, conseqnentl3^, is more likely to need support. In the varieties of the disease distin- guished as asthenic and typhoid, the reliance for successful management must be on supporting measures. These views are tlie more to be impressed, because it is undoubtedly true that, until lately, the minds of medical men have been so much occupied with the means of subduing inflammation, as to overlook the fact that the means for this end not only often conflict with those which are more important for recovery, but may be posi- tively injurious, and even destructive to life. The attention has been directed too much to the disease, and too little to the patient. We have seen that we cannot expect to subdue the disease; we can only hope, in the first stage, to moderate its intensity. But not a little can be done, by judicious man- agement, towards aiding the powers of life to carry the patient safely through the disease. The supporting treatment embraces tonic remedies, alcoholic stimulants, and nutritious di'et. Of tonic remedies, quinia is to be preferred. It is not indicated in mild cases ; but, when- ever there are grounds for anticipating undue depression of the powers of life, it may be given, and continued during the prog- ress of the disease. The propriety of giving this remedy, in tonic doses, in a malarious region, as well as to patients who have had periodical fever, has been already mentioned in con- sidering the treatment of the first stage. Under these circum- stances, the continuance of the remedy during the second stage is not less appropriate. Alcoholic stimulants form a very important part of the sup- porting treatment in this disease, as in all others, whenever the great object is to keep the patient alive until the disease lias reached the end of its career and advanced into the stage of resolution. The principle is the same as in the essential fevei's. And here, as in the management of the essential fevers, alco- holic stimulants are indicated to an extent commensurate with the danger from failure of the vital powers. In pneumonia, as in typhus or typhoid fever, there is often a remarkable toler- ance of alcohol; and the only guide, as regards quantity, is the18 PNKUMONIA. effect as manifested by the symptoms, No abstract rules can belaid down, applicable to all cases; but careful observation must furnish the rule proper to each individual case. Here, too, as in the continued fevers, because alcoholic stimulants are vastly important in some cases, it is not to be inferred that they are invariably indicated, nor that they can never do harm ; on the contrai'v, if pushed to an injudicious extreme, they are as potent for evil as they are potent for good when judiciously used.* The question may be asked, Under what circumstan- ces is their use to be commenced ? We may say that they are indicated always so soon as evidence appears of any ten- dency to failure of the powers of life. And of this the action of the heart, as represented by the pulse, is the best criterion. Feebleness, great frequency, and a pulse vibratory or thrilling, but compressible, denoting increased activity but diminished power of the ventricular contractions—these are the cliaracters which indicate supporting measures, of which alcoholic stimu- lants are an essential part. Given at first in small or moderate doses, the effect is to be watched, and the quantity increased in proportion to the urgency of the indication. The habits of the patient, as regards the use of alcoholic drinks, are, of course, to be taken into account. Whenever the question arises, in the management of a case, whether alcoholic stimu- lants are advisable or not, it should be borne in mind that to begin earlier than they are required is far preferable to subse- (|uent delay ; for, with proper care, they can be suspended without any injury having been done; but the time lost, by beginning too late, cannot be regained. Alimentation is an essential part of the supporting treatment. It is not less important to feed pneumonias than to " feed fevers," or other diseases, wlieuever there is danger from failure of the vital powers. If this be considered as a bold assertion, it is believed the only reason is its novelty. It is not long since the idea of feeding fevers was equally bold, because equally novel. The statement that patients with pneumonia may safely be encouraged to take nutritious food during the * In view of a tendency, at the present time, to an excessive use of alcoholic stimulants, the Committee desire to impress the importance of the exercise of proper discrimination and care in their use.PNEUMONIA. 19 whole course of the disease, is Ijased on coiisi<lerable experience. And tliis should enter into the treatment in proportion as the symptoms denote a tendency to asthenia. Animal essences, or soups, milk, and i'arinaceous substances should be combined to tbrin the diet, thns securing a pi'oper variety of alimentary principles. The desires and taste of the patient may generally be trusted. The juice of fruits- ma_y be allowed. It may be considered as superfluous to say that, when the suppoi'ting treatment is indicated, measures which conflict with this treatment are contra-indicated. But custom has so long sanctioned the abuse of purgatives, that it may not be amiss to caution against their injudicious use in pneumonia. The use- fulness of saline remedies of this class, in the first stage, lias been alluded to. They are useful as means of depletion with- out spoliation. After the first stage, purgatives are only indi- cated when inconvenience arises from accumulation in the bowels; and the mildest measures sufiice. Active cathartics depress the vital powers, and, in this way, do harm in propor- tion as supporting measures are called for. The use of opium may be considered in connection with the supporting treatment. Opium may be given, as already stated, to relieve acute pain in the first stage. It may be given, also, to allay cough. But, aside from these objects, clinical obser- vation shows this to be a most valuable remedy in the treatment of pneumonia. Given in full doses, in certain cases, it tran- quillizes the system in a remarkable manner. The frequency of the pulse and respirations is sometimes notably diminished. Refreshing sleep is obtained. It appeal s to render the system tolerant of the local aflection ; if, indeed, it does not, in some instances, induce a more speedy commencement of resolution than would otherwise have occurred. These statements are based on the employment of this remedy in a large number of recorded cases.* An objection to the use of opium, on the score of interference with expectoration, is already disposed of. Expectoi'ation is of no importance with reference to the resolution of pneumonia. That opium does not retard the ab- sori)tion of the exudation, is shown by the rapid disappearance * Sec Analysis of Ciises, in Am. Jour, of Med. Sciences, No. for Jan., 18G1.PNEUMONIA. 20 of solidification in cases in wliicli the reiriedj has been freely given. The cases to which opium is speciall,y a])plicable are tliose in which the affection excites nnnsnal disturbance of the system, manifested by restlessness, vi<--ilance, typhoid delirium, an irritable pulse, &c. Apprehension of inducing cerebral trouble need not be felt, even when typhoid delirium be pres- ent; on the contrary, tlie good effect of the remedy is often manifested by a more rational condition.* Pericarditis complicating pneumonia adds greatly to the gravity and danger. By perseverance in the judicious employ- ment of supporting measures, we may hope to save lives which would otherwise have been lost. Tlie writer of this paper has I'eported a case of pneumonia affecting the whole of the right lung, complicated with pericarditis, and eventuating in pul- monary abscess, in which recovery took place under vigorous and long-continued supporting treatment.f It may be added, that timely and efficient support probably affords the best se- curity against suppuration, whether in the form of abscess or purulent infiltration, and also against the occurrence of gan- grene, which, happily, is extremely rare. Pneumonia occurring as a complication of the continued or eruptive fevers, calls for soothing and supporting measures. Depressing measures, such as blood-letting, antimonial prepara- tions, and purgatives, are very rarely, if ever, admissible under these circumstances. A few words respecting the management of convalescence: There is little or no tendency to relapse. It must be extremely rai-e for a patient convalescing to be prostrated by a second attack. Tliere is no need, therefore, of extreme precautions on this score. Experience shows that a solid, substantial diet, may be entered upon so soon as the patient is fairly on the road to recovery, and that the convalescence is more rapid than if the appetite be too much restrained. As a rule, ordinary wholesome, digestible articles of food may be allowed, when they are craved by the patient. Permitting the patient to *■ More or loss delirium is not very infroqucnt, even in cases of jmeumonia w-liicli (Id not present other symptoms d(Mioting tlic typhoid condition, and is not in itself necessarily a symptom of grave import. t New Orleans Medical Reporter and Hospital Gazette, Vol. for 18G0.PNEUMONIA. 21 begin to sit up, wlien he feels a desire to do so, will be found not to retard recovery, but, on the other hand, apparently to hasten the progress of resolution. Finally, with i-egard to pneumonia, as well as other diseases which may endanger life, let it be borne in mind that, although it is the most important end of medical j^raetice to prevent a fatal termination, this does not comprehend tlie whole aim of the physician even in cases which recover. If he cannot cut short or abridge the duration of a disease, the next best result is to conduct it to a favorable issue. But this is not all. A rapid convalescence and a complete restoration to health are other important objects. And, in seeking to determine the relative merits of difierent methods of treating a disease, w'e are not to be guided solely by a comparison of the ratio of mortality, but by comparing the condition of patients during convalescence and after recovery. As regards the disease un- der consideration, although the substitution of a soothing and supporting tj'catment for the active measures formerly in vogue has doubtless diminished the rate of mortality, yet the improve- ment is equally shown in the rai)idity and completeness with which health is regained. In concluding this Keport, the following propositions are submitted, embodying the practical views which have been presented respecting the management of pneumonia: 1. Uncomplicated pneumonia, limited to one lobe, in gen- eral does not claim active treatment of any kind ; simple palli- ative remedies and hygienic measures being alone required. 2. Blood-letting and other antiphlogistic measures, with a view of subduing the inflammation, are not warranted by a sufficient probability of success, and, if resorted to for this pur- pose, will be likely in many cases to do harm. 3. Blood-letting is useful, not by a direct effect on the local affection, but indirectly by diminishing the intensity of the symptomatic febrile movement. It is admissible only in cases characterized by intensity of the febrile movement, when the affection is said to be sthenic, and only in the first stage of the affection. 4. In the cases to which blood-letting, if employed at all, should be restricted, the good effects nniy generally be obtained22 PNEUMONIA. by saline purgatives, together witli sedative remedies, sneli as the jM-eparatiuiis of antimony and the veratrum viride. 5. The remedies jnst named are indicated only in the cases referred to. Given in cases indiscriminately, and carried to an injudicious extent, they may do much harm. They should be used with great circumspection, and rarely after the first stage of the disease. It is never advisable to push them so far as to occasion distressing nausea or vomiting, and enfeeble the heart's action. 6. Acute pain, depending on coexisting pleurisy, does not call for general blood-letting. Dry or wet cupping, fomenta- tions, and stimulating applications to the chest are useful, and, if not efi'ectual, opium may be given sufficiently to relieve this symptom. The oiled muslin jacket, to be worn during the dis- ease, is to be recommended. 7. The combination of intermitting fever and pneumonia calls for the prompt useof quinia in sufficient doses to arrest as speedily as possible the paroxysmal aflection. Small or moder- ate doses of this remedy should be given in malarious regions, and to patients who are subject to intermitting fever, in order to prevent the development of intermitting fever and to obvi- ate the unfavorable influence of the malarious cachexia. The remedy should be continued during the progress of the disease. 8. Antimonial preparations, mercur}', blisters, and expecto- rants are not called for with a view to promote i-esolution of tlie pulmonary affection. There are not sufficient grounds for the belief that they hasten the removal of the exudation, and, if not useful, they must be injuiious. There are no remedies to be employed especially for this object. 9. In severe cases of pneumonia, after the disease has ad- vanced to the second stage, the most important object of treat- ment generally is to support the powers of life, to obviate the tendency to death by asthenia, and to carry the patient safely through the disease. 10. The supporting treatment consists of tonic remedies, alcoholic stimulants, and nutritious food. These are to be combined, in order to render the supporting treatment efficient. 11. Alcoholic stimulants maybe given without fear of af- fecting unfavorably the local aflection. They should be givenPNEUMOXIA. 23 so soon, Jit least, as the lieart's action and otlier s_Ympt()nis afford evidence of any failure of tlie vital pDwers. They are to be given more or less freely, according to tlie danger from asthenia, the degree of tr)lerance and tlie appai-ent efiect. They are not to be given as a matter of course, but only when indi- cated, and the quantity given is to be determined by tlie exei"- cise of care and judgment. 12. A supporting diet embraces the animal essences, milk, and farinaceous articles. There is no risk in encouraging the patient to take nutritious food at any time during the progress of the disease; and there is reason to believe that danger from exhanstion may be forestalled by alimentation, together with the early emplo_yment of tonic remedies and alcoholic stimulants. 13. Purgatives, after the first stage, arc not indicated, save when there is inconvenience from ftecal accumulation, and then the mildest remedies which will eli'ect the object are to be pre- ferred. 14. Opium given, not to I'elieve pain or allay cough, but to tranquillize, promote sleep, and render the system more toler- ant of the local affection, is a valuable remedy in jjueumonia. It is indicated by unusual disturbance of the circulation and nervous system, and its good effect is shown by a marked im- provement in all the symptoms. This remedy does not retard the resolution of the local affection. It condnces frequently to improvement as regai'ds delirium. 15. Soothing and suppoiting measures are especially called for in cases of pneumonia distinguished as asthenic and ty- phoid, and when pneumonia occurs as a complication of the eruptive and continued fevers. 16. The occurrence of pericarditis as a complication is an ad- ditional reason for the suppDrting ti'eatment. 17. In convalescence from pneumonia there is not much, if any, danger of relapse, and the recovery is more rapid if a sub- stantial diet be allowed and the patient permitted early to sit up. Austin Flint, M. D., Chairman. A. Clark, M. D. JouN T. Metcalfe, M. D. Benj. W. M"Cready, M. D.m Mimmmmm. J.S A N I 'r A Li Y C O .M A L i ^ i O N. K. I REPORT i 'i OF A (Tommittcf of the Associate ^Hcrtival pcmbv OF THE SANITARY COMMISSlOxN, ox TUK SUBJECT OF CONTINUED FEVERS. SECOND EDITION. PIIINTED FOR CIRCUI^ATION BY THE SANITARY COMMISSION. 1863.I'W.vsiiiNGToN, Dec. 6, 18G1. Secrcturij. The attoiitioa of t1io Sanitary Coininission has liooii dirocU'd {n the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in tlie licld, are unavoidalily deprix ed of many faeilities tliey liavc heretofore enjoyed for tlie cnnsultalinn of standard medical autiiorities. It is obviously im[)ossilile to jdaee within their roacli any thing tlnit ran bo termed a inedieal library. 'J'he only remedy seems to be the [(reparation and distribution among the nu'dical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the liigliest medical authorities in regard to those medical and sui'gieal (questions which are likely to pi'csent themselves to surgeons in the held, on the largest scale, ;ind \vhich are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The C'limmission has assigned the duty of j)re[iaring papers on several subjects of this nature, to cei'tain of its associate mendicrs, in our iirincip.-d cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evi- dence of their fitness for their duty. ■fiie following paper on ■' Continued Fevers" belongs to this scries, and is i-cspectfiilly recommended by the Commission to the medical officers of our army now in tlie field. Fked. Law Olmstki),A SUMMARY OF THE SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF CONTINUED FEVERS. Fevers are divided into Essential, or Idiopathic, and Sjnip- toinatie : tlie latter depending solely on some local affection, are not considered here. The former are snbdivided into Remit- tents, Intermittents, and Continned Fevers, to which may be added, as coming strictly into neither of the above families, Yellow Fever. From the widely extended field of its operations, most of the above-named diseases are prevalent in our army, and all, in their every variety and form, may sooner or later be looked for. It will come within the scope of this paper to deal witli Con- tinued Fevers only. Of these there are three,* viz :— Ierttativf, Fever (so called), TvPHOiD Fkvee, and Typhus Fevek. Wo propose to give, as concisely as possible, the ordinary diagnostic characteristics of these diseases, with some of their symptoms and causes, together with a brief summary of treat- ment. * The Relapsing Fever of Great Britain is omitted in these descriptions, being rarely if ever seen in this country.6 CONTINUED FEVEKS. I. IRPJTATIYE FEVER. (Syu.) Simple Fever, Ephemera, Febricula. A fever lasting only abont twenty-four hours lias been described by some writers under the name of Ephemera as distinct from Febricula ; but they nuxy be better treated as gradations of the same disease passing by insensi- ble degrees into each other, and difleriiig only in intensity. By tlie term Irritative Fever is meant that condition of the system which is manifested by a hot skin, a quick pulse, and white tongue, &c., continuing from two to seven or eiglit days, and referable, so far as our powers of observation go, to Jio pe- culiar or specific agency or local disease as its cause. CoiiKSE AND Syjiptoms.-—It begins with rigors, generally slight, often imperfectly marked yet sonaetimes severe, followed by chilliness, headache, pain in back and limbs, and soon suc- ceeded by ordinary febrile I'caction—a dry, hot skin, frequent 23ulsc, furred tongue, loss of appetite, thirst, constipation, scanty urine, and diminution of the secretions generally. There is no cough, nor physical signs of the chest or abdomen. The symp- toms increase in severity for three or four days, and after five, six, or seven days disappear as suddenly as they began,-—a. critical discharge, a deposit of urates or a copious sweat, in many cases, marking the moment when the patient regains his health. Causks.—Very numerous; exposure to cold or intense heat, errors of diet, a debauch, ovcM-exertiou and fatigue, the pres- en(-e ol' febrile epidemics, Soldiers, after a fatiguing march (ixposed to cold and wet, if they afterwards remain with theii- damp clothes upon them, are apt to be thus attacked. PuooNosrs.—Uncomplicated, it is never fatal; local inflam- mations are oeeasionally set up in its course.1 TYPHOID FEVEE. Diagnosis.—From tlie severer kinds of fever, generally by the mildness of its accession and symptoms; great caution is liowever to be observed here. From the phlegmasia, by the absence of any discoverable local affection. Tkeatment.—In ordinary cases very simple. If great vas- cular excitement or signs of active cerebral congestion exist, venesection to the extent of from eight to sixteen ounces may be resorted to in a strong man ; but tliis is seldom necessary. Generally an efficient cathartic at the outset, followed by refrigerant diaplioretics, witb proper attention to regimen, is all that is required. In the choice of a cathartic, be guided by circumstances. If febrile excitement is intense, sulphate of magnesia alone, or with inf. sennic; if symptoms of acidity be present, the pure magnesia may be added ; for hepatic con- gestion and deficieni; hepatic secretion, give two or three comp. cath. pills. Eight or ten grains of Dovers powder at night, Avill generally be of service. If the fever lasts beyond a day or two, the bowels must be kept regularly open by saline ca- thartics, with the diaphoretics above named in the intervals. All excitements are to be avoided, rest and strictly farinaceous diet enjoined ; cold water and simple acidulated drinks, but no stimnlants allowed. Should inflammation in any organ be de- veloped, the case is to be treated exactly as an ordinary phleg- masia of that oi'o'an. ;— : 11. TYPHOID FEVER, (Syn.) Com. Continued Fever, Enteric Fever, Abdominal Typhus, Dolhin Enteritis. . Tliis is the ordinary endemic fever of jSTew England, and of those portions of the United States in whicli the miasmatic or bilious fevers do not prevail. The official army I'eports show it to be more or less inino-led with the latter also witliin their own es])ecial limits, and rarely to be entirely absent, indeed, in any part of our country'.8 continued fevers. General Desckiption ok Portkaitube of the Disease.— An acute affection, resulting from an obscure if not unknown cause, occurring oftenest between the ages of 16 and 33, most prevalent in autumn and Avinter, but occurring at all seasons, having an average duration of from 21 to 2S or 30 days, some- times sudden, but more often gradual and insidious in its approach ; its access—after a few days of indefinable illness and discomfort, headache, inaptitude for bodily or mental effort— being attended with chilliness, usually slight and often repeated, soon followed by more or less febrile heat of the skin, accelerated pulse, and respiration; a Avhitish furred tongue ; slight, dry cough; sonorous rales ; pain in back and limbs; apathy, ano- rexia, thirst, a tendency to diarrhoea, occasional epistaxis ; ver- tigo, especially in assuming the upright position ; tinnitus au- rium, hebetude of mind; as the disease advances, loss of muscular strengtli, perversion of the intellect, low delirium, increased diarrhoea, tympanites, pain in abdomen, tenderness and gurgling over iliac region ; dry. hard, brown, or black tongue ; Avith the appearance, after the 10th or 12tli day, of a peculiar eruption, coming out in successive crops, of a delicate rose-color, few or many, which vanish under pressure, coh"fined mostly to the ante- rior and posterior surface of the trunk, attended by sudamina on the chest and neck ; still later, in sever<3 cases, increased aI)dominal pains and tenderness, meteoric distension, frequent diarrhoia, sordes, subsultus and sinking of all the vital powers, and death from the second to the fourth week ; or, at a variable period between the 12th and 30th day, a gradual diminution of all the symptoms, merging in convalescence and recovery. Catjsks.—Its essential causes are by no means well deter- mined. Age as a predisposing cause, recent residence in town, and, at times, contagion (to those Avho are constantly in immedi- ate relation to the sick only as a rule), are the circumstances and conditions that may give rise to the disease. Among the imme- diate causes must be named the ordinary excitants of disease in camps—errors in diet, excesses, exposure to cold or hear, extreme vicissitudes of weather, strong moral impressions, tfcc, itc. Soldiers recently from the country, quartered in or about9 TYPHOID FEVER. our large towns and cities, are more than ordinarily snbjeet to this fever. Forms and Vakieties.—Tliis disease is liable to present itself under different phases or forms in different seasons, and in different localities, and often, at different times, in the same season and localit}'. Such are in general the inflamma- tory or sthenic, and the debilitating or asthenic. Bat these differences in form, it is believed, belong rather to the first stages of the disease, adynamia almost always marking its later periods. There is also a latent form of the fever, in which tlie symptoms from the outset are of the mildest character. The patient, unable to fix upon any particular day as that on which his illness commenced, feels ill, weak, languid, chilly, loses his appetite, and suffers from slight frontal headache. lie is listless, unapt for his usual occupations, lounges about, per-, haps lies down for a part of the day, and, feeling better, makes an effort to exert himself, goes out, but soon returns fatigued, and lies down again. At uight there is generally some in- crease of the symptoms denominated febrile, the pulse rises, the skin is hot, and the patient is restless and uneasy ; some days he is better, some days worse ; there is no discovei'able lesion, there uiay be a little cough, Avith slight sonorous rale, or there may be some leaning towards diarrhcea, with a little pain and tenderness in the abdomen. There exists no tangible disease, but the symptoms continue for days and weeks, with- out abatement or much variation. Such cases may terminate in two ways—slowly after a month or five weeks, in the gi-adual disaj^pearance of all the symptoms and returning health—or, suddenly, with intense abdominal pain and vomit- ing, extreme distension, coldness of surface, sinking, and death from perforation of the intestines. Diagnosis.—This must be rational, not absolute—that is, not founded on a few positive physical signs. There is no one symptom,—there arc no two or three symptoms which, in themselves, are characteristic of the disease ; nor is there anyCONTINUED FEVErtS. 10 one symptom or group of symptoms, usually occurring, wliicli may not be absent daring its entire progress. The most com- mon and marked cliaracteristics are its insidious attack, the early headache, apathy, dulness and perversion of the senses, tinnitus, dry cough and bronchial rales, tendency to diarrhoaa, epistaxis, pains in abdomen, tenderness, and gurglhig; and later, the appearance of the rose rash, with sudamina, tympanites, light-colored liquid stools, stupor, low delirium, and adynamic condition generally. These, in mild, average, and severe cases, being mostly present, leave little doubt of the nature of the malady. It is important early to recognize the latent form described above, and the value of the precautionary measures it naturally suggests. The disease may be confounded, in its early stages, with the bilious remittent, if within the sphere of the latter aftections,—especially if, as is believed by Dr. George B. Wood, the two diseases may be somewhat commingled in consequence of the co-operation of their causes; cases (as that distinguished authority asserts) having all the esseutial charac- ters of typhoid fever, occasionally ending in intermittents ; and bilious fevers or affections which cannot be distinguished from them, sometimes showing the symptoms of typhoid fever during their progress. But the pure remittents may be com- monly known by their more decided remissions, the bilious vomiting and yellowness of skin, shorter duration, more abrupt accession, and absence of the prominent adynamia or general prostration ; the rose eruption, of course, is never seen. A hasty diagnosis, in miasmatic regions particularly, should be avoided ; and while in doubt, give the benefit of the doubt in favor of the disease now under consideration. Tekaiment.—Various, and, to some extent, opposite modes of inanagcnient have, at diifercnt times, been advocated and adopted. The buhuice of authority is in favor of a I'ational, syiHptouuitic, (>\pL'ct;int jtlan of ti-eatment, adapted—as far as coiunioii sense and cxperitMice will iMialilc ns—to the varying .state and condition of tlie patient in ditferent forms of the ti^ver, and the sevurid stages of its progress. In few diseasesTVPIIorn FEVER. 11 are tlic beneficial effects of active medication less marked and obvious. In no disease is the benefit of the watchful care and attention of the physician more apparent. At the first onset of tlic disease, the patient should desist from his ordinary duties, abstain from food except of the mildest and simplest kind, and be placed in bed, or, at least, in a state of repose. Attempts to jugulate the fever by violent emetics and cathartics, are opposed to reason and ex- perience, and may prove of incalculable mischief in the end ; and all delay and forced efforts to "stave ofi"" the attack will prove of no avail. At the commencement of the disease, if the patient lias eaten immoderately, or signs of irritable injesta in the stomach are present, an emetic of ipecac 3 ss. may bo administered. The bowels should also be evacuated by a mild cathartic, sufficient to clear them of all irritating matter; a moderate dose of castor-oil, either alone or in emulsion, will do this effectually and without danger. Afterwards, the bowels should be kept moderately open during the whole course of the disease. Often there is diarrhoea throughout, and always an unusual sensitiveness to the influence of ca- thartic medicines; tlie gentlest laxatives, therefore, and those in small doses, will be sufficient. If the evacuations are free and spontaneous, none will be required ; if gastro-intestinal irritation be severe, mucilaginous enemata should be substi- tuted. But all unnecessary agitation of the intestinal track is to be scrupulously avoided, bearing in mind the great sensitive- ness of that region, and the peculiar lesions wliich, in all forms and grades of the disease, are the essential ])atliological ele- ments of the fever in question. Sometimes in its early stages, in a ])lethoric and robust pa- tient, when the pulse-is full and strong, and there is much pain in the head, flushed face, and obvious acttive congestion or inflammation of the brain or other vital organ, a single bleed- ing may possibly be res(n'ted to with benefit. This, however, is the very rare exception, iu)t the rule; and a few leeches to the temples or in the immediate vicinity of whatever iuqior- tant oi'gan is thus threatened, are almost always to be prt'l'ei'i'cd, if blood is to be taken at all. Experience is de^'idtMlly againstCONTINUED l-'EVERS. 12 it under any circnnistanccs, after the first week. If now the case become of moderate or oven average severit}', all per- turbatiiig treatment is to be avoided. Care, Avatclifnlness, and good iinrsing is the snni and substance of the therapeuti- cal management in such cases: the tendency of the disease is towards health, and there is no evidence that the dangerous complications, which are likely to occur, can be prevented by any active interference. In severer attacks, the synjptoms must be met as they occur, having due regard to the vigor and strength of the patient. To moderate excessive heat of the skin, warm, tepid, or cold sponging is indicated ; where there is much debility, diluted spirit may be substituted. The ner- vous symptoms, restlessness, wakefulness, and subsultus, are best alleviated by camphor-water or Hoffmann's anodyne, and by opiates in small quantities, when not contra-indicated, at night; laudanum enemata are of great value, when sleep is required to be induced in such cases, and tend rather to di- minish than increase cerebral cono;estion. But for excessive subsultus with a brown tongue, brandv is the appropriate remedy. Simple diluent drinks are, at all times, beneficial ;— of these pure cold water is the natural febrifuge ; a weak in- fusion of flaxseed (5 ss. to water Oj.) taken when cold, often and in small quantities, is especially appropriate, and always palatable and gi-ateful to the patient; give them abundantly, as often as they may be desired. If tympanites is extreme and painful, a mucilaginous enema containing 3 ss. of turpen- tine will oftcntim es give signal relief. Blisters to tlie aidcles and inside of the calves will sometimes i-evive the patient, when the lungs are congested and he is seemingly in articulo mortis. In the debility attendant upon the advanced stages of the disease, tonics and stimulants become absolutely essential ; they must be adapted in activity to the degree of prostration, and yet must be exhibited with caution. The precise ])(.iiits at which stimulants are demanded is often a nice question to determine. The early appearance and i)ersistence of an ady- namic condition may call for their adoption at the outset, and during the whole course of the disease; in such case?13 TYPHOID FEVEK. they are to be given boldly, without reference to any do2;nuis of their contra-indication in certain stages. The pnlso is u safe guide ; if frequent, hard, and quick, stimulants are contra- indicated,—if frequent, small, and compressible, or infrequent and compressible, they may be given witli safety. In doubt- ful conditions, the practitioner should carefnlly watch the effect himself, administering the medicines, if need be, witli his own hands. On his faithfulness in this particular, the life of the patient may depend. Among the most efficient of these agents are the pure wines, brandy, and the carbonate of ammonia.'^ Local Affections and CoMrLicATioNS.—Where there is obstinate delirium and coma, the head should bo shaved and a blister applied to the scalp. In copious and alarming epistaxis, occurring at any stage of the disease, recourse must be had to plugging the nostrils anteriorly and posteriorly. Hemorrhage from the bowels, a grave but by no means an invariably fatal symptom, is to be treated by injections of starch with lau- danum, by the acetate of lead in jjill, or other astringents. Dr. William Ashmead has found great efficacy, in threatening cases of intestinal hemorrhage, from the administration of kino in large doses. Dr. AV^ood has employed the same remedy in such cases with signal success. He uses it " almost without limit," as " freely as the stomach will tolerate it." Thus " a teaspoon- * Among the most suitable of tlic stimulants is icitie whey. It should be prepared by adding one part of good (Sherry) wine to two parts of boiling milk, and straining after coagulation ; of this from a tablcspoonful to a wine- glassful may be given every two hours. Brandy is often advantageously ad- ministered in the form of milk fuiich., made with one part of brandy and two parts milk, and given in doses of cue, two, or three tablespoonfuls every hour or two. Garh. ammonkit should be administered in doses varying: from grs. ijss., to grs. X. every hour or two, and is best given in emulsion. The fol- lowing formula may be used: I^. Am. Carb. 3ii., Acacise pulv., Sach. alb. aa. 5ii., Aq. Menth. p. vel A(i. ttuv. f 3 vi. M. From a teaspoonful to a tablcspoonful to be taken every hour or two, diluted with a little watei-.— Noiti to Wood'H Practice of Medicine. When stimulants are moderately r.'ijuircd, and in the hemorrhagic state, u judicious use of the tinct. chlo. ferri. is often advantageous.CONTINUED FEVEliS. 14 fill of tlie powder may be given at once, and repeated at such intervals as the case may seem to require, till the liemorrhao-e ceases." Laryngeal obstruction from oedema—a peculiar and dangerous complication—sometimes occurs in this and other low fevers, requiring immediate and prompt attention by scari- fication of the glottis or tracheotomy. Peritonitis from per- foration can onl^^ be treated by the exhibition of large doses of opium, abstinence from all food, and absolute and motionless rest, and this with a -well-nigh hopeless chance of success, yioughing, in tedious cases, may be obviated by frequent changes of posture, and a judicious use of pillows of bran. In the aggravated forms of the fever, the state of the bladder should be daily attended to. A peculiar state of the tongue, seen not unfrequently in this disease in its advanced stages, has been considered as indi- cating an aggravation of ulceration in the ileum, and is often treated successfully by the administration of the oil of turpen- tine in small doses ; it is when in the advanced stages of the disease, after cleaning partially in flakes, the tongue becomes suddenly hard and dry, with increase of tympanites and ag- gravation of all the other abdominal symptoms. In such cases. Dr. Wood advises the administration of from five to ten or fifteen drops of the oil, in emulsion with gum arabic and loaf-sugar and water,—adding a little laudanum occasionally if it disturb either the stomach or bowels. In the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours the tongue becomes moister, the tympanites diminishes, the pulse is less frequent, the skin less harsh and dry, and the patient enters slowly but regularly into convalescence. Thirty yeai's' of experience has convinced this accurate observer of the etHcacy of the treatment iu such cases. When the disease is evidently of nnilarions origin, or is complicated with bilious reniittent,—as it may be in districts where the miasmatic fevers prevail,—and especially if, under such circumstances, an intermittent form of the fever super- vene, baric, or the sulphate of quinine should be used with- out hesitation, and Avith a freedom proportioned to the ur- gency of the symptoms. But the general and indiscriminateTYPHOID FEVER. 15 use of quinine in this disease cannot be too strongly con- demned. xittention to the (Vet is all-important tlirono-liout. In the cnrlj st;iges it should be light, consisting of liquid substan- ces chiefly ; tlie infusion of flaxseed, toast-water, barley-water, weak solutions of tapioca, sago, or ari-owroot, are mostly tu be employed ; gruels made of Indian meal are to be avoided. Slightly acidulated drinks or pure water may be given, as the patient prefers. In the advanced periods, when symp- toms of debility appear, a more nutritious but not stimulat- ing diet is necessary. ■ The farinaceous articles above men- tioned, made with a mixture of one part water and three parts milk, may now be given ; wine, if desirable," may be added. Pure milk or milk and water may sometimes be substituted with benefit. And in the last or prostrate stage, the diet must not only be nutritions, but stimulating, such as the animal broths or jellies, Avith wine, milk punch, or brandies, or, if these cannot be had, the essence of beef and mutton." During convalescence the closest watchfulness and care is demanded; the bowels are to be kept open by the mildest laxa- tives or emollient enemata, but active purgation, premature exposure, fatigue, excitement, and all indiscretions in diet are to be scrupulously avoided. * The essence of heef or mutton naay be prepared iu the following manner. The muscle, deprived of fat, is cut up finely-, and introduced without water, into a narrow-necked bottle, which, after being loosely corked, is exposed for an hour or more to a boiling heat in a pot of water, in which it is so placed that the top of the bottle is above the surface of the liquid in the pot. At the end of the process, the liquor which may have formed in the bottle is ])oured off, and constitutes the preparation in question. It is a concentrated solu- tion of the soluble principles of the meat, is powerfully stimulant, and in the quantity of from a teaspoonful to a tablcspoonful, repeated at intervals of half an hour, an hour, or two hours, aids greatly in the support of the system in this and other low states of disease.16 CONIINUED TEVEHS. III. TYPHUS FEVER. (Sjn.) Typhus rjravior, Ship Fever, Camp Fever, Ho^jntal Fever, dx: Sketch of the disease, involving its proniinent tsyniptonxs and progress.—It is an affection sudden and severe in its acces- sion, common to all ages, ushered in by lassitude, depression, rigors, anorexia, headache, pains in back, limbs, and joints; accompanied or soon followed by loss of strength, dulness of the intellect and special senses, perversion of memory, stupoi-, dusky and hot and pungent skin, flushed face, sufl'used eyes, furred and loaded tongue, accelerated but moderately full, soft, and compressible pulse; without any considerable deviation, in its simple uncomplicated form, from a normal condition of the cliest and abdomen ; general sensitiveness of surface, a strong peculiar nauseous odor of the body ; exhibiting, on or about the fifth day, an abundant characteristic rash, first seen on the arms, upper part of the chest and legs, later on abdomen and back, never on the face, the approacli of which is heralded by an in- distinct mottled and roseate appearance of the surface, seem- ingly subcuticular, which rash is at first light, pinkish, florid, isolated or clustered, simulating not unfrequently the eruption of measles, then darker, more or less persistent, increasing in abundance and intensity for several days, sometimes livid and petechial, fading on or about the tenth day, and disappearing in the order in which it came from about the twelfth to the sixteenth day ; which symptoms may vary in intensit}' and relative importance, may vacillate from better to worse, from worse to better, or remain stationary, or diminish in intensity till they are merged in convalescence; or may be aggravated and receive accessions, the tongue become dry, swollen, fissured, black, with accumulations of sordes on teeth and lips, fuligi- nous face, burning skin, livid and petechial spots, hurried, interrupted, imperfect respiration, an exceedingly rapid, feeble pulse, extreme muscular prostration, coma vigil or great ner- vous agitation, simulating at times the busy excitement ofTYPJUrs KKVEi; 11 (lelii'ium treiiiens, willi soiuetimcs coolness of surl'acc pro- fuse sweating, tenninatiug, at a varial)Ie period between the twelftli and twentietli day, often earlier, rarely later, in death. Causks.—Our knowledge of its efficient causes is lindted and in:iperfect. Among the circumstances most frerpiently associated ^ ith its appearance, are the crowding together of persons in dark, damp, badly ventilated apartments, coupled with anxiety, fat'igue, want, deprivation, and misery. The very intimate connection of typhus with crowded and confined apartments, where the excretions and filth is allowed to accu- mulate, has been universally adnutted ; hence the disease has often made its appearance in camps, ships, hospitals, and gar- risoned towns. " This is the pestilence which dogs the footsteps of retreating and discomforted armies, and takes np its dwell- ing in their tents,—which hides itself within the noisomowalls of ancient prisons.'' Its history shows it to be often dependent upon that nnknoAvn influence, or combination of inflnences, to which the term epidemic has been applied. And when once engendered, Ironi whatever cause, it has been almost univer- sally regarded by those whose opportunities have best fitted them to know, as capable of direct transmission by contagion. Yet the disease must not be held as contagious in the same sense that smallpox is contagious, viz. : that it is invariably and virulently so. Certainly the sphere of action is more limited, the communication of the poison more dependent on circumstances, and the morbific influences more within the control of sanitary laws and regulations than in the usual zymo- tic, or so called contagious maladies. It may be stated in general terms that the contagion, to be efl^ectual, must be con- ' centrated by the crowding together of patients, or accumulated and aggravated in ill-ventilated and pent-up rooms, or stimu- lated by the conjunction of other Tinfavorable hygeine condi tions, ill-drainage, filth, eflluvia, &e., &c., or the recipient have been previously subjected to the predisposing causes, by de- privation, hardship, and waid, excesses, anxiety, fear, despon- dency, mental and physical exhaustion, or debility from anyCONTINUED FEVEES. 18 cause, till his system lias been brouglit to a point below the power of resistance. It follows that ininiunity from tlie re- ception of contagion in the exposed, and from an aggravation of horrors on the part of the sick, is to be obtained, as far as possible, by a strict ol)servancc of thu wcll-Icnowii maxims of hygeine—first and foremost amongst which is tlie possession of a stout heart, and a sutliciency of the liglit and air of heaven. Hence an explanation of the f;ict that, in the sheds and shanties, open to the elements, which of ]iecessity have been resorted to when the disease has sprung up suddenl}^ and pre- vailed extensively, both patients and attendants have fared the better. Varieties and Forms.—These are only such as depend upon different degrees of severity, and arc more or less constantly connected with the different seasons of the year. Some epi- demics may be characterized as mild, others as severe; and, in the same visitations, may be found every grade between the two extremes. During the winter and spring, the fevers will most likely be complicated with pulmonic affections ; in summer and autumn with gastro-intestinal irritation, perhaps; and, at uncertain times and seasons, grave consecutive affections may supervene. DiAaNOSis.—Among the chief characteristic symptoms, are the following: abruptness of the attack, the early and great prostration, the rash, the dusky hue and sensitiveness and peculiar odor of the surface, the passive engorgements, ten- dency to muscular and nervous agitation, and freedom from •important local derangements. Thus the accession is sudden, preceded only by a day or two of trifling ailment, and accom- panied very uniformly by anorexia, rigors, nausea, pains, hot skin, depression, and headache. The depression is an early and almost constant attendant; the strength soon becomes ex- hausted, the mind and memory confused, and the spirits de- spondent. This exhaustion continues till, in tlie acme of th(,' disease, the powers are completely overwlielmed. The hot19 TYPHUS FEVEPw skin is often excessive. It is peculiar, dry, burning, and pun- gent to the feel. On the fifth or sixtli day tlic characteristic rash appears. The dusky face and fuliginous hue of the body is a common accompaniment ; it is noticed early, and deepens as the fever advances. Conjoined with this, and bearing an appreciable relation to its intensity, is the mai'kcd and pun- gent emanation from the general surface, Avhich has been previously described as mousey, mawkisli, ammoniacal, &c., furnishing to another sense a testimony of the specific nature of the malady. A muscular unsteadiness is early apparent— a tremulousness of the hands, and of the tongue, the culmina- tion of which may be spasms and convulsions. Delirium, in greater or less degree, is an almost constant concomitant. It is not unfrequently accompanied by the wakefulness and ex- citement and busy activity of delirium tremens, which it closely resembles. More often, the early somnolence is attended by muttering and talking, a state which generally passes into stupor or coma, the patient lying sujjine and utterly uncon- scious. The respiration is peculiarly alfected ; it becomes quick and labored—it is impeded and interrupted, amounting sometimes in frequency to forty, liftyj 'T-'it^ even sixty in the minute. And yet there is rcnuxrkable freedom from any im- portant structural disease. The diagnostic marks of cerebral inflammation are wanting. Auscultation and percussion fail to detect any abnormal signs in the chest. The abdomen is natural in appearance, and free from any considerable tender- ness or tympanites. There is no diarrho3a. The bowels may be a little relaxed, but the stools arc regular and easy in tlieir action. More often there is a tendency to constipation through- out. Neither the liver, the kidneys, the stomach, nor the in- testines give evidence of any especial organic disturbance, Treatmi'NT.—In f/mcral, pure air, cleanliness, quiet, and good nursing are all important requisites. Bland nourishing food and drinks, given frequently and in small quantities, are in most cases demanded tliroughout tlic wliole course of the disease. Conjoined with such hygienic measures, the use ot20 OOWTINUED EEVEKS. mild cvaciicnts, of diajihorctics, nervous and arterial sedatives or stimnlants, as the case may ref|uire, together witli tlie usual means to mitigate febrile action, constitute the whole of the general plan of treatment. The details must be varied accord- ing to the circumstances which may arise during its progress, so that wliilc the general management of the case may safely be trusted to the faithful and intelligent nurse, it is the prov- ince of the physician to obviate injury to the vital functions, and combat in turn the graver S3Miiptoms as they present. Measures should be early adopted to prevent the spread of the fever by contagion. We have already named the conditions under which this element becomes active. Happily the con- ditions required for its amelioration are those which experieiice has shown to be best for the patient."- Should wards and walls bo necessitated by the rigors of the season, blazing fires and open windows become imperative ; and here, as already suggested, due attention to ventilation, clean- liness, and the non-crowding of patients, will go far to lessen the chances of communication. * The following rales, tlio oljservance of which is eujoiucd by the Govern- ment of the London Fever Hospital, might well be adopted under similar circumstances in Military Hospitals, passim. "I. It is of the iitmost importance to the sick, and their attendants, that there be a constant admission of fresh air into the room, and especially about the patient's Ijed—care being taken to prevent the wind from Idowiug directly on the patient. "II. Attention to cleanliness is indispensable. The linen of the patient yhould be often changed ; and the dirty clothes, &c.. immediately put into fresh cold water, and afterwards w(dl washed. The floor of the room must be cleansed every day with a n\oii, and all discharges front the patient imme- diately removed, and the utensils waslied. "III. Nurses and attendants ought to endeavor to avoid the patient's breath, and the vapor from the discharges. "IV. Visitin-s must not go jioar to the sick, nor remain with them longer than is absolutely necessary ; they should not swallow their spittle, but clear the mouth and nostrils when they leave tlic room. " V. No dependence must bo placed on vinegar, camphor, or other supposed preventives; M-hich, without attei\tion 1o cleanliness and admission of fresh air, are not only useless, but, by tlicir strong smell, render it impossible to perceive when the room is (iiied with bad air or noxious v.apors."TYPirUS FKVEIl. 21 In tlie formative stage, that is. on tlic fir^t day of tlie sudden accession of symptoms of tlie fever ('not later), if tliere be no gastric disturliance, a full emetic of ipecac, sul- phate of zinc, or mustard, may he given in hopes to arrest or cut short its progress. Later than this, or al'ter reaction has supervened, the fever must run its course. Bearing in mind the essential adynamic cliaracter of the affection, the indications are now to sustain the vital forces—protect the important or- gans— modify existing symptoms, and minister to the relief of the sufferer. Attention to diet is always important. The bland articles of nutriment, arrowroot, sago, ground rice, mush, and occasionally the lighter jellies (if they can be got), in the acute stage; and when prostration is :narked, the animal es- sences and broths are to be given, in small quantities at frecpient intervals, Wii-tching their effect. Demulcent beverages, such as the infusion of flaxseed, milk and water, and the like, should constitute the principal drinks. Early in the disease a gentle cathartic is required ; castor-oil in emulsion is best. This is to be repeated, or emollient enemata substituted, as occasion requires during the course of the disease. General blood-letting is not well borne in typhus. It is better to discard it altogether. If reaction is excessive, and the vascular excitement intense, or if important organs are particularly involved, demanding vene- section in ordinary cases, other means are still preferable liere, I'emembering that tlie disease may, at any time, sink suddenly from a state of apparent exaltation, to that of depression of all the vital forces. For local affections, likewise, dry cupping may be used instead of local bleeding ; and if violent vascular action is manifest, with burning surface, dry tongue, and full and ac- celerated pulse, recourse may be had to the administration of a mild solution of tartar emetic, and tepid sponging of the whole surface; or the milder refrigerants and neutral mixture may be sometimes substituted with good effect, unless the bronchial and pulmonary tissues ai'c involved. The intense cephalalgia is oftenest relieved by the application to the forehead of flannels dipped in hot vinegar and water. JSTausca and uneasiness of the stomach, are best mollified by a sinapism to tlie epigastrium. Sleep may, in most cases, be induced by minute doses of theCONTINUED FEVERS. 22 sulpliate of moi-pllia; i or even j\ gr. in solution, given once or twice at intervals of an lioui-, will often ])ro(lucc the desired efl'ect. The general nervous disturbance, great sensitiveness, morbid vii>;ilance, restlessness, and subsultus, is best allayed bv camphor, in doses of 4 to G grs. cither in emulsion or the form of the ordinary camphor mixture. On the signs of adynamia or general exhaustion, recourse is at once to be had to stimulants and tonics, and these oncebes-un are oftentimes to be continued through the course of the fever, sometimes in the face of condi- tions commonly demanding an opposite policy. Thus not nii- frequently, "while dealing with some severe disturbance by local depletive means, vigorous stimulant measures are, at the same time, to be adopted in order to keep the general system up to the vital point. Of the stimulants, the strong wines—sherry, madeira, and port—are the best. Combinations of some stimu- lant and tonic are often beneficial. A mixture composed of sherry and the sol. sulpli. quinias in equal parts (of which from 5 ss. to f j. may be taken every two hours), is most excel- lent. When the system has been habituated to strong drinks, brandy is preferable. At the same time beef tea and the nour- ishing broths may often be administered with the best re- sults." In the advanced stages, when there is muttering deli- rium, coma, involuntary evacuations, cold extremities, a flutter- ing pulse, and rapid sinking of the poAvers of life, there may be added to the above treatment stimulating injections, hot pediliivia, friction to the spine, dry warmth, flying blisters, sinapism to the inside of the thighs, legs, and arms. Thus " Often in conjuuctiou with slieriy, beef tea, and milk and water, p. r. n., llie following, which arc among the standing Hospital mixtures in Great Britain, may ho given according as the symptoms nf jn-ostration, combined with nervous excitement, are more or loss ur'i-eut. 1. Ilikl Fecer Mixture. 2. Strong Fever Mixture : ^■ Liq. amnion, acet. 3 ii. mist, camph. nqnsr distill, aa. 3 ss. M. Ft. Hau.st. Amnion, sosqnicarb. gr. v mist, camph. 3 jss. M. Cn]^. 3j. qua(]ue 4t;i liora.TYPHUS FEVER. 23 tlie flagging energies, may sometimes be arrested in desperate cases. Local Comi'licatioxs and incidental affections, occurring in the acute stage, are to be treated topically but judiciously, bearing in mind the adynamic tendency of the primary disease. During convalescence, too much care as to premature exposure, or indiscretions ill diet, cannot be observed. The appetite is to be restrained. Demulcent drinks, solutions of gum arable, and infusions of flaxseed, in conjunction ^vith bland but untriiious food, seem avcU adapted to this period. Ale and porter are here of adyantage, in many cases, if they can be got. Thus by care and consideration, the intractable secondary diarrhcea ^vhich belongs to the rccoyering stage, may be avoided, at the same time that the strength of the patient is sustained and increased. The preceding paper, prepared by Dr. J. Baxter Upham, of Boston, is recommended for jniblication to the United States Sanitary Commission, by the Medical Commission of the State of Massachusetts. GEORGE HAY WARD, J. MASOj^ WARREN", S. CABOT, Jk. S. D. TOWNSEND, JOHN WARE, R. M. HODGES.Sanitary Commission.SANITARY COMMISSION. L. REPORT OP A COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATE MEDICAL MEMBERS OP THE SANITARY COMMISSION ON THE SUBJECT OP EXCISION OF JOINTS VOB TRAUMATIC CAUSE. SECOND EDITION. WASHINGTON: M'OII.L k WITHMROW, PBINTBEB. 1863.i ■ »■,The attention of tlie Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossi- ble to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribu- tion among the medical staif of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medi- cal authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves' to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on sev- eral subjects of this nature to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. •The following paper on "Excision of Joints for Traumatic Cause" belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by the Commis- sion to the medical ofiicers of our army now in the field. FRED. LAW OLMSTED. Secretary, Washington, December 6, 1861.THE EXCISION OF JOINTS FOR TRAUMATIC CAUSE. Although excisions have been practised upon all the articulations of both extremities, for traumatic lesions which would otherwise demand amputation, satisfactory experience of their results, except in the shoulder and elbow, is, at present, either wanting, or of a very limited character. To appreciate their exact value for each individual joint is, consequently, hardly practicable. More than this, the pecu- liarities of these operations, and the conditions which justify their adoption, are such, that, in the varying fortunes of a campaign, the character of the injuries inflicted, the state of surgical resources, or other circumstances, may even require them to be abandoned altogether. The propriety of their performance, also, obviously varies with the limb implicated. An excision in the lower extremity, which is designed to sup- port the weight of the body and is the chief agent in locomo- tion, is evidently a different thing from one in the upper extremity, which, with gentler movements to execute, has no weight to sustain, acts independently of its fellow, permits ex- ercise and locomotion during the processes of cure, and which may be shortened, deprived of certain uses, and limited in others, yet still remain of the greatest service. The contrast is made still more apparent when we remember the admir/ible substitutes for the lower extremity which mechanical inge- nuity has furnished, whilst the most imperfect and partial movements of the hand surpass in usefulness those of the best artificial contrivances which have yet been invented.6 The wounds made by round bullets, (rarely those by Minie balls,) by fragments of shell, and occasionally tlioso from sabre-cuts, or from the smaller projectiles thrown by cannon, are almost the only injuries in which excisions can be attempted. Compound dislocations, sometimes happening from accidents in mounted drill, or possibly during an engagement, are thought by many authorities to demand removal of the projecting articulating surface, rather than simple reduction. The precise traumatic conditions to which these operations are adapted are not, however, easily determined. Gun-shot injuries of joints, especially in the lower exti'emity, are apt, either unquestionably to demand amputation, or else to hold out some hope from expectant treatment; the choice left is not the easy one between ex- cision and amputation, but the difficult and perplexing one between excision and an attempt to save a limb without an operation. A knee-joint completely shattered, with exten- sively lacerated soft parts, excites no doubt in the surgeon's mind as to what course he shall pursue. The single small bulIet-woLind, in the vicinity of an articulation, with no crepi- tus, a doubtful synovial discharge, and no local or constitu- tional symptoms, is a condition which eauAot but embarrass the most experienced in deciding upon so grave an operation as that of excision. Yet this is precisely the character of injuries in which the question of conservative operations is to be decided. A ball imbedded in or near an articulation may at first give rise to little disturbance, but if left to itself, will sooner or later excite the well-known signs of joint- injury, with long and wasting suppuration, deep and painful abscesses, and their concomitant dangers; and when these symptoms have manifested themselves, excision, or indeed any other operation, offers but little prospect of success. It is clear, then, that the circumstances, if not the cases, which permit of excision, must be of comparatively rare occurrence. The tendency of modern practice has led us to hope much from conservative surgery, and the success of ex- cisions for disease and for traumatic causes in civil hospitals has encouraged the expectation of results equally brilliant7 from the same practice after gun-shot wounds received in hattle. But the fact cannot be concealed, that excisions, hardly excepting even those of the head of the humerus and of the elbow, are operations not likely to succeed in the hos- pitals of an army under any circumstances. The unfavora- ble hygienic conditions which must prevail amongst large numbers of wounded men congregated together, will often decide the fate of the soldier whose limb a mistaken kind- ness may hava. tempted his surgeon into the endeavor to preserve. To incline towards the side of conservatism in cases permitting of doubt, will be to see patients die" whose lives amputation might have saved. It was for these reasons, that the practice of conservative surgery was so very limited in the recent Italian campaign, and in the lower extremity almost abandoned. They cannot but weigh with equal force in that in which the United States Army is now engaged. So much being premised, the most important points con- nected with the various excisions will now be passed rapidly in review, HEAD OF THE HUMERUS. The advanced position of the soldier's shoulder when in the act of firing makes it an event of not infrequent occurrence for a bullet either to bury itself in the head of the humerus, or to traverse it without much comminution, or, striking im- mediately below it, to break the bone short off at its neck. Heavier projectiles also and fragments of shell sometimes lay open and fracture the joint, and carry away, perhaps, a por- tion of the deltoid muscle. In these or other injuries of the shoulder-joint, unaccompanied by damage to the large vessels and nerves, and when the bone is not too much splintered or comminuted in the shaft, the judgment of the surgeon must determine the propriety of an attempt to save the limb. Ex- tensive fissures do not absolutely interdict excision, and whilst decapitation of the humerus is ordinarily alone required, four8 and even five inches of the bone have been removed without detriment to the result. Sometimes, on the other hand, only a portion of the articulating surface of the humerus seems to need removal; but the subsequent mobility of the arm will be less restricted if the whole head of the bone is taken away. Unfortunate results do not, however, as a rule, follow partial excision in this, as in other joints. As'gun-shot wounds are of so variable a character, injuries to the coracoid and acromion processes, to_the clavicle, and more rarely to the body and neck of the scapula, will occa- sionally be found complicating that of the humerus. Although extensive fracture of the scapula destroys the probability of success, fragments of it have been removed, and recovery has ensued, notwithstanding the profuse suppuration and protracted treatment following. A patient with a shattered head of the humerus may re- cover without an operation, but, to say nothing of greater safety, more rapid and better results follow excision than the gradual exfoliation of fragments. The time required, and the condition left by the slow processes which accompany the latter course, are more unlikely to .give a useful arm. As the operation can be performed with the same, if not more success, after the establishment of suppuration, a certain amount of delay is admissible in doubtful cases. Statistics show that secondary excisions of this joint are more suc- cessful than primary, in the proportion of 17 to 10. This is explained b}^ the fact, that it is the less grave cases which are reserved for expectant treatment, and because, by the lapse of time, and after the establishment of suppuration, the exact extent of the injury can be determmed m a manner not always easy at the time of its occurrence. In the one case all is excised which should be; in the other, the removal may fall short of its proper limits. Operation.—Formal incisions will often be modified by wounds of the soft parts. When this is not the case, a straight incision, commencing as liigh as the acromion and just ex- ternal to the coracoid process, the point of the knife pene-9 troting to and keeping in contact with the bone, is prolonged downward along the anterior aspect of the joint. This cor- responds with thef bicipital groove containing the long head of the biceps muscle, which, released from its sheath, is to be held to one side and preserved undivided. The tendons of the scapular muscles, which in a great measure form the capsular ligament, are then put on the stretch by rotating the arm inwards or outwards, according to the side on which they are to be attacked, and divided with sufficient freedom to allow the head of the bone to be tilted from its socket. The posterior circumflex artery, a vessel of large size, and the circumflex nerve, l»oth of which pass close to, and just below, the head of the humerus, must be respected, if possi- ble. Another method of performing this excision consists in making a crescent-shaped incision posteriorly, comraenc- iug beneath the acromion and proceeding backward and downward. As the patient lies on his back, it permits the secretions to escape with great facility, and the burrowing of matter is thereby prevented. The preservation of the long tendon of the biceps is more diflicult in this method than iu the preceding. The section of the bone is accomplished with the saw, the soft parts being protected by a spatula or card passed behind it. In cases of fracture of the neck, and when the head cannot be turned out of its place, it must be seized by strong forceps (tooth-forceps, for instance,) and removed in the manner which circumstances will permit. In such instances it is only necessary to cut oflT the sharp edges and irregularities of the shaft of the bone. AfTER-TREATMENT.—The tendency of the latissimus dorsi and teres major to draw the extremity of the humerus inward, is to be prevented by a pad or cushion in the axilla. Besides, this, repose, with the shoulder and arm supported on a pillow, cold-water dressing for the first few days, and subsequently gentle compression by bandages, to prevent the burrowing of pus down the arm, with a sling and the confinement of the humerus to the side of the body, constitute all the treatment which can be required until passive motion is to be at-10 tempted. This is generally admissible by the second or third week, and is to be practiced daily, unless contra-indicated by the symptoms or the extreme pain produced. The surgeon may console himself for the slow progress of his case by re- membering that the chances of anchylosis are said to be in proportion to the rapidity of cure. . ELBOW-JOINT. The exposed position of the elbow, both in loading and firing, makes it, like the shoulder, constantly the recipient of gun-shot injuries; and the choice between amputation and excision is far more difficult than in the last-named articula- tion, which from its anatomical position can, even under adverse circumstances, be kept tolerably immovable, and consequently free from many sources of after trouble with much greater ease than the elbow. Either for this or some other reason, not apparent, gun-shot wounds of the joint of the elbow less frequently do well without operation than those of the shoulder. When left to nature, the track of a ball which passes near the joint, as well as the joint itself, usually becomes carious, and ultimately demands excision. "I have seen," says Macleod, "several cases in which, after being traversed by a ball, attempts have been made to save the elbow without excising it; but such trials were any- thing but encouraging. The motion of the joint and its consequent use will be found much greater after excision than when the arm has been saved without operation." It would perluips seem that nothing could be more easy than to diagnosticate the injury which the bones of a joint like the elbow may have received. Such is not the case, how- ever. The whole upper end of the uliia may be crushed and fractured into the joint, yet leave no deformity, and allow the patient to perform all the usual movements. This is owing to one of the peculiarities of gun-shot fractures, viz: the preservation of the periosteum unlacerated, whereby the fragments ai'c bound together, and the form of the bone is11 retained. It follows, therefore, that in an examination of a gun-shot fracture, either in this or any other joint, very little assistance can he derived from the common piohc. The only reliahle probe is the surgeon's forefinger, and to admit this the wound of the soft parts may at any time be enlarged. In extensive injuries, the state of the soft }iarts, the con- dition of the large blood-vessels, and the probable extent of fissures must decide the question of operjition. "As regards the results, it is of no consequence whether the excision is performed in the first forty-eight hours, or after the full de- velopment of supperation." (Stromeyer.) In no joint are the propriety and advantages of excision so conclusively es- tablished as in this. Operation.—The elbow is excised by a straight incision along the inner border of the olecranon, extending three inches above and three below that process. If the operation is performed after the parts have become stitfened by inflam- mation or serious infiltration, a second short incision at right angles to the first may be carried outwards over the end of the olecranon towards the external condyle. The entire thick- ness of soft parts should be raised on either side from the surffice of the bone, special care being taken that the ulnar nerve, where it lies in the groove at the inner side of the olecranon, is not interfered with. This can only be insured by keeping the knife constantly in contact with the hone. The soft parts in which it reposes, or the nerve itself, if it is released from its sheath and exposed, should be liekl to one side ; division of the lateral ligaments and conjoined tendons will then freely open the interior of the joint. The ad- vantao-e of the straie:ht incision is, that the connection of the triceps tendon by its edges with the investing aponeurosis of the arm and forearm remaining intact, an attachment for the muscle is thus efl:ected, which diminishes to a certain extent the loss of power following the unavoidable division of the tendon at its'insertion into the olecrapon. It is true that a transverse incision facilitates the operation, but it is fiir better to secure this temporary convenience by extending the longi-12 • tudinal incision, than to sacrifice the important permanent advantage which the single incision promises to secure. The extent of the incision must be such that when the parts are brought together, the bones neither lock nor refuse easy flexion. The insertions of the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles are to be preserved whenever possible, and it is to be remembered that in dividing the ulna and radius low down, the interosseous artery will be endangered. Four inches of bone above and four below the joint have several times been removed, a useful arm being regained. In oper- ations, however, which open the medullary cavity of the shaft, the dangers of myelitis are to be dreaded. Partial ex- cision, on the other hand, even if the end of one or more of the bones appears uninjured, is not admissible, as such cases are more liable to fail, and are less satisfactory in the result- ing mobility when they succeed, than if the whole articula- tion is removed. In many instances, the detachment of fragments, and smoothing off the sharp processes of the frac- tured boues with bone-forceps, will constitutfe the whole operation of excision. After-treatment.—For the first week, and until suppura- tion has become established, the arm should repose on a pillow bent at an obtuse angle of about one hundred and thirty degrees, (that being one of greater ease than a right angle,) with cold-water dressing to the wound. Subse- quently poultices may be substituted ; but in all excisions it is to be remembered that the long-contijiued use of poul- tices retards adhesive processes and encourages suppuration and ulceration. It will not be before^the expiration of the second or third week that a rectangular splint can be applied, and this, if possible, should be one which permits of a varia^ tion from day to day of the position in which the arm is to remain flexed. Passive motion is to be commenced at the earliest moment the wound and the patient's endurance will permit, and be faithfully kept up by the surgeon as fre- quently as it can possibly be practised.13 WRIST-JOINT. Under the title of this excision are to be included all ope- rations which excise a part or the whole of the ends of the radius and ulna, a part or the whole of the carpus, the proxi- mal ends of the metacarpal bones, or even all of these to- gether. It will at once be seen that in this operation the first law of excisions can rarely be fulfilled, viz : that, togeth- er with the partial or complete removal of the articular ex- tremities of the bones, there shall be a free exposure or destruction of the synovial cavity of the joint. Of all the principal excisions performed for disease, that of this joint is the one on which least reliance is placed. la default of experience, therefore, the inference is that in mili- tary surgery it will furnish still less favorable results. The "wrist" was excised three times during the* Crimean war, with one fatal result, and the end of the radius has been quite a number of times successfully removed in cases of compound dislocation. There is consequently precedent sufficient, perhaps, to authorize renewed trials in cases not accompanied by too great laceration of the soft parts. Operation.—The removal of any part of the wrist-joint, for gun-shot injury, can hardly be accomplished without division of the extensor tendons; indeed, the lesion prompt- ing interference will probably have already eflected this. The fractured bones must be patiently dissected out, and the detachment ol' fragments will in most cases constitute the whole operation. The end of the radius may, perhaps, admit of removal with the saw. After-treatment.—This is to be conducted upon general principle's; but after the first few days, the fingers and the thumb should be kept semi-flexed by resting upon some rounded body, (a roller bandage, for instance,) so that, if any motion is retained, their approximation may be more readily accomplished. Passive motion of the fingers cannot be attempted for considerable time after the operation, butu should be begun as soon as possible. The restoration of but slight mobility is, however, to be expected. HEAD OF THE FEMUR. Even when the upper part of the femur has been shot through, rotation outwards and crepitus are not always pres- ent, and sometimes very considerable power of flexion and extension remains. The degree of injury and the condition of the parts after a bullet-wound of the hip-joint are indica- ted by still more inconclusive symptoms, and are as difficult to determine as the cases are certain to terminate fatally. "Picture to yourself," says Mr. Guthrie, " a man lying with a small hole, either before or behind, in the thigh,— with no bleeding, no pain, nothing but an inability to move the limb, or to stand upon it,—and think that he must in- evitably die in a few weeks, worn out by the continued pain and suffering attendant on the repeated formation of matter burrowing in every direction, unless his thigh be amputated at the hip-joint, or he be relieved by the operation of excis- ion, Avhich, I insist upon it, ought first to be performed." The cases permitting this operation are of infrequent occur- rence, and are confined almost exclusively to bullet or shell wounds, involving the neck of the femur, or the ti'ochanters, or which fracture the shaft in their vicinity. But ten instances in which the head of the femur has been removed for traumatic cause have ever been published. Seven of these were performed in the Crimea, and of the entire number but one recovered. The chances of recovery after disarticulation in military practice may be inferred from the statement that the opera- tion was performed by the English fourteen times, ^and by the French thirteen times, in the Crimea, without a single recovery, and in the Schleswig-Holsteiu campaign seven times, with but one successful result. Which of these alternatives, then, is to be adopted ? By following an expectant course, and trusting to the resources of nature, an almost invariable mortality will ensue. It is15 equally rare for disavticulatiou to succeed, or for patients to survive more than a day or two after its performance. The remaining resource, excision, ptossesses at least the advantage of not putting life in immediate danger, one of the patients in the ten cases alluded to having survived five weeks, others from six to seventeen days, and only one so short a time as twenty-two hours; whilst, if the present percentage of recov- ery is maintained in a larger number of cases, it will prove a very much less fatal operation than disarticulation. Excision of the head of the femur, therefore, merits further attention from the military surgeon, and ofiers an additional chance of saving life in an otherwise almost hopeless class of cases. This is the only aspect in which the question is to be regarded; the usefulness of the limb left is a consideration not necessary to be entertained. Contrary to the course admissible in the upper extremity, in the hip, excision should be primary and immediate; sup- puration and exhaustion, or more rapidly acting causes, being sure to lead to a fatal result if anything like an expectant plan of treatment is adopted and the operation is deferred. And it may be said here, with regard to all excisions, that if the patient is in a state of shock, the administration of ether, (of the inhalation of which, under these circumstances, there need be no fear,) will often bring up the pulse and excite re- action to an extent authorizing an operation. , The ^hock following excision, and due to it alone, is necessarily less than that of an amputation, since the blood contained in the limb is not lost. Death from this cause has, however, fol- lowed excision of the larger articulations, and the surgeon should be forewarned of the possibility of its occurrence. Operation.—A curved incision just above the prominence . of the great trochanter, with its convexity directed downward in the long axis of the limb, or a straight incision in a line with the shaft of the femur, five or six inches in length, tlie centre of which shall correspond to the trochanter, exposes the upper part of the femur in a manner well suited for its removal, and without endangering any important vessels.16 Wlienever the Lead still maintains its connection with the rest of the bone, the precaution should be taken to dislocate it from the acetabulum before,detaching it from the shaft. The comminuted fragments are to be dissected out, or the upper portion of the bone protruded and sawed off. The great trochanter, whether injured or not, should always be removed, otherwise it will project into the wound, prevent healing, and act as an obstruction to the discharge of pus or exfoliating fragments of bone. In the single successful case of excision for traumatic cause, five inches of bone were re- moved. After-treatment.—Subsequent to the operation, little more is required than rest, and the maintenance of the limb in a proper position and right direction with the body. The ten- dency in the end of the femur to protrude at the wound is a point especially to be remembered. A bottle of water of variable weight, at the end of a cord attached to the leg by means of sticking plaster, and then passing over a pulley at the foot of the bed, will partially secure these ends, but no regular extension with splints or apparatus is admiss'ble ; shortening or deformity are of little importance if-the pa- tient's life is saved; and to secure this, his comfort and repose, free from bandages, or their frequent adjustment, are more important considerations than the precise position or condi- tion of the limb. In the successful case already alluded to, the limb was placed in a sling of stout canvas, which hung from a beam over the man"s cot, and the plane of which formed an angle of twenty degrees with the horizon. This method of treatment was adopted in order to approximate the upper end of the bone to the pelvis, as well as to prevent the lodgement of matter amongst the tissues and to favor its escape. At the end of three months the patient was able to leave his bed, upon crutches. The shng adopted in this case has since been imitated in many instances of the operation for disease, and has been much liked by those who have ased it.IT KNEE-JOINT. The gravest symptoms follow the penetrution of the knee- joint by u gun-shot missile. Macleod says: ''1 have never mot with one instance of recovery in which the joint wan distinctly ojjened and the bone forming it much injnred, un- less the limb was removed ■ ^ have conversed with man}' persons, of large experience, on the subject, but never heard of any case recovering in wliich the diagnosis of fracture of the epiphysis was without a doubt." Esmareh declares that "all gun-shot injuries of the knee-joint in which the epiphysis of the femur or tibin has l)een affected demand immediate amputation of the thigh. ' Fractures of the patella, in which the joint is not otherwise implicated, are, however, an exception to thisgenen^ rule, and authorize attempts at the preservation of the limb without operation. Whether excision may be adopted ^vith any propriety as a substitute for amputation in the class of injuries above re- ferred to, statistics unfortunately do not enable us to decide. Only six instances are known in which this joint has been excised for gun-shot injury. One,—complete excision and a secondary operation,—performed in the Crimea, proved fatal after twentj'-eight days, from exhaustion and diarrhoja. A second occurred in the Indian campaign of 1857-58, when a native soldier underwent amputation of the left thigh and excision of the right knee, and died the next evening, with symptoms of shock. The third case, one of partial excision, the end of the femur alone being removed, was performed three days after the injury, during the Schleswig-IIolstein campaign, and terminated fatally a month after the opera- tion, from tubercular disease and pyaemia. A fourth case, of which no details are given, proved fatal from pytemia within a few days of the operation. Of two other cases oc- curring in civil practice, the wounds being from shot-guns, one was fatal from tetanus, two days after the operation, and the other recovered at the expiration of three months. Of six other cases of excision for incised wounds, compound 2lit (Uslocatioii, separation of tlie e[ii[»li,ysi.s, etc., and occurring ill civil practice, two only ended in recovery. Siicli is tlic discouraging catalogue of attempts to save the limb by conservative means ; of twelve o[)eratious, only three proved successful. Results derived from so small a number of operations do not authorize a comjDarisou with those of amputations, tlie mortality following which, when performed at the lower third of the thigh for traumatic cause, in military practice, is 50.6 per cent. (Macleod.) It is impossible within the present limits to discuss the conditions which demand excision. The judgment of the surgeon must decide the question in the presence of each individual case. It is only in slight wounds of the joint, that the operation is to be undertaken; when the extent of injury to the bone is such that considerable portions of ft must be removed, excisions is not tlie appropriate operation. If decided upon, it should always be done immediately after the accident; for if suppuration and inflammation once estab- lish themselves, the chances of success for either excision or amputation become very small indeed. Operation.—The simplest and best method of excising the knee-joint is by a circular incision, extending half-way round the limb, on a line Avith the articulating surface of the tibia. It freely exposes the joint, and the dependent situation of its two ends favors the discharge of matter. It also permits the division of the hamstring tendons without any additional punctureor incision, and this is a step always desirable to take in order to prevent the displacement of the leg, which so often happens during the first part of the treat- ment from the contraction of the muscles of the back of the thigh, especially of the biceps muscle inserted into the head of the fibula. The joint being opened, division of the cru- cial ligament permits the head of one bone, by flexing the * limb, to be lifted up and opposed to the other in such a way that its section may be accomplished by tlie saw without endangering the vessels of the popliteal region. A thiu19 seifiiKMit oi'tlie articular sni't:u;o ot'tlu- Ijouc reiiiainiiiL!,' unin- jured, (such hciuii- the case,) is also to l)e I'cmoved, and ou IK) account is tlie patella to be left, its riserulness is forever destroyed hy the operation, aiul its presence is liable to ex- cite disease in the bones, and protract the treatment. The limit to which the excision may be cari'ied is a narrow one, for, to say nothing' ol' the extreme shcu'tening, if it: exceed the expanded enlargements of the extremities of the bone, tiiere will be a too small basis of support at the point of anchylosis to insure safety and usefulness in the limb pre- served. After-Treat.mkxt. — Absolute immobility during the after-treatment is all inijiortant. T'erhaps no means of at- taining this end can be more elfectual than the use of silver or iron wire sutures applitnl at the time of operation by means of a drill carried obliquely through the edges of both bones ou each side of the limb; the ends being twisted, the bones are brought into lirm and close contact. At the end of six weeks the wire may be cut and drawn out by maiu force. It is not known that this method of securing immo- bility has been attempted in traumatic cases, l)ut its success in operations for disease suggests the propriety of its trial. The policy, however, which must govei-u the surgeon in the mauagen\ent of these cases should be one of extreme caution, free from meddlesomeness, and dii'ected to saving the life of his patient rather tlian the usefulness of the limb. The ap- plication of a well-padded posterior splint is in no case to be omitted ; and in a camp hospital after the first few weeks, wlien swelling has subsided, and the in:imediate dan- ger to life appears less imminent, the proper position and repose of the limb may sometimes be efficiently secured by a starcli bandage, in which an aperture is left corresponding with tlie wound. An apparatus of some kind, wdiich per- haps will often have to be .extemporized by the surgeon, is, however, absolutely necessary until sufficient consolidation has taken place to admit of handling the limb without risk of disturbing the bones. During the second dressing, dis-20 jilacemcnt of the tibin l)ack\vards is liable to occur unriotic^cd by tlie surgeon, who may discover it only wlioii it is too late to be remedied ; a consideraI)le leiigtli of lime must there- fore be allowed to elapse before this is pei-iormed. and the first dressing should be made with reiercnc(i to such a course. Some of the external applications may be changed, and the remaining dressing kept from becoming otfensive by the free use of a solution of chloride of soda. The limb should not l)e lifted from the bed for as long a period as possible. The swelling of the whole limb, which frequently accom- panies the slow process of recovery, may be restrained, if not prevented, by careful and smooth bandaging fi'om 'the foot upward. ANICLE-JOIXT. The ends of the tibia and fibula have been removed only on one or two occasions for gun-shot injuries, and then with- out success. The operation in these cases consisted rather in a removal of comminuted fi'agnients of bone, than in a regular excision. Indeed, it is not easy to foresee circum- stances likely to occur in the field, in which complete ex- cision of the ankle-joint would be advisable. The recoveries which have followed the operation in cases of compound dis- location in civil jiracttice indicate its projiriety in accidents of that sort hap})ening to soldiers, and which in the artillerj- and mounted service cannot be of infrcHjuent occurrence. The astragalus, in cases of its irreducible and compound dislocation, njiay be removed, wljen manipulation and the division of bands which seem to prevent will not allow of its reduction. In cases wliere the ends of the tibia and fibula, or the en- tire astragalus, are removed, and the joint destroyed, even if life is saved, a useful limb cannot be promised with any de- gree of assurance. Anchylosis and considerable shortening are the best results to be hoped i'or. In removing any of the parts about the ankle-joint the posterior tibial artery will necessarily be divided. The pre-t servation of the anterior tibial is therefore of great import- ance. Tlie application of adliesive straps in sncli a way as to keep the osseons surfaces approximated, and yet allow a free exit to all discharge, a carved side-splint, such as is some- times used for fracture of the leg, and the resting of the limb on a pillow, are the chief features of the subsequent local treatment. TARSUS. The OS calsis and part of the astragalus, and the os calcis alone, were successfully removed in the Crimea, the former once, and the latter four times. The os calcis, in cases of its comminution without implication of any other bones, must frequently permit of excision when amputation would otherwise be necessary. With this exception, gun-shot wounds of the tarsus, though the}^ sometimes authorize at- tempts at prescrraiive surgery, rarely justity conservative * steps. SMALL JOINTS OF THE HAND AXD FOOT. Injuries of the metacarpo or metatarso-phalangeal and phalangeal joints o^ the fingers and toes seldom leave a choice between excision and amputation, except in cases of compound dislocation. This, in the toes, is infrequent, and hardly met with except at the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe. Both here and in the thumb, excision is a more judicious treatment than simple reduction, and averts- the grave inflammation and suppuration which almost in- variably follow the accident. In excising the joints of the fingers, it must be borne in mind that the preservation of motion is most important in the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, or in those of the proximal phalanges ; for if the proximal be stiff, no amount of motion in the distal joint can be of service; but if the proximal joint can be voluntarily flexed, a very small degree of mo-22 l)ility in tlic distal iiuikos the fiiigei- u useful one. A stiff, straight finger is always in the way, and i)atients themselves will oftentimes ultimately solicit their ani[»utation. In the foot, the anchylosis and abl^reviation, the scars and prominences whieli are left by excisidn, interfere with com- fort wlien the shoe is worn ; and although tlie foot requires a broad surface to sustain weiglit, and a certain length for easy walking, it can Ijetter bear tlie loss of a toe than i)res- sure on an iri'egular and tender cicatrix. Excisions of large joints are never to be practiced on the battle-field, or under conditions which wmU require the im- mediate transportation of the wounded. It is only in station- ary hospitals, or under circumstances where the sick can be left behind, that they are to be attempted. Exceptions to this rule may sometimes be made for excisions of the up[)er extremity; but even in these, unless considerable time has elapsed, removal can hardly fail to cause displacement of the parts, inflammation of the wound, and the consequent train of abscesses, constitutional disturbance, and, it may be, of graver accidents,—pyaMiiia, myelitis, necrosis, etc. Patients with excised joints are, however, al\Yays*to be transfered, at the earliest suitable opportunity, from regimental to general hospitals, where tliey can remain undisturbed till recovery has taken place. After an excision a successful issue depends upon constant •personal superintendence on the part of the surgeon, and a continued call upon his patience and ingenuity is made by the requirements of necessary apparatus, or the varying modifications wdiich it demands, and upon his judgment, either in maintaining absolute rest, if anchylosis is desired, or in regard to the time when passive motion shall be com- menced, the frequency with which it shall be applied, and the indefatigable perseverance with which it shall be follow- ed up when active local symptoms have subsided.'2a LTsefal and serviceable results, as a rule, arc hardly attain- able ill less than a year from the time of excision. Soldiers may occasional!}' return to a modilied duty iu a less period than this after removal of the head of the ljumerns or of the elbow-joint, but a slow convalescence is alone to be expected. The subjects of these operations arc tlierefore to be consid- ered as permanently invalided. In view of long hospital con- finejiient and protracted suppuration, it must be borne in mind, then, at the outset, tliat a patient may make a good recovery from a primary amputation when he will not sur- vive a secondary amputation required by the failure of an ill-advised excision. The preceding paper is recommended for publication to the United States Sanitary Commission, by the Medical Commission of the State of Massacliusetts. GEORGE riAYWAllD. S. D. T0W2>ISEND, .TOIIN WARE, J. MASON WARREN, S. CABOT, Jr., W. J. DALE, Surgeon-General R. M. nODGES.SxVNITARY COMMISSIOISANITARY COMMISSION. M. REPORT OF A COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATE MEDICAL MEMBERS OK TUE SANITARY COMMISSION ON DYSENTERY. SECOND EDITION. WASHINGTON : M'aiLL a. WITUEROW, I'BINTEUS. 1863.The attention of the Sanitary Commission has been called to the fact that most of our Army Surgeons now in the field are unavoidably deprived of many facilities they have here- tofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution, among the medical officers of the army, of a series of brief essays, or hand-books, embodj'ing, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing paperc on several subjects of this nature to certain of its assoc-iate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession. The following paper on Dysentery belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by the Commission to the attention of medical officers. FRED. LAW OLMSTED, Secretary. Washington, Feb., 186Z.EEPOllT OlSr DYSENTEllY. The experience of recent as well as remoter times shows thai the two great oa-uscs of death in armies are typhus, with itK •allied forms of fever, and dysentkuy. It also proves that, when they are most fatal, all of these diseases arise from the neglect of well-established sanitary rules, and that their ravage?; •are least destructive whenever an intelligent appreciation of their forms, grades, and complications governs their treatments This is emphatically true of dysentery. " Can.ip dysentery" is far from being uniformly the same. It may vary in type a5 greatly as dysentery does in civil life, presenting all siiades of ■difference from a slight and transient bowel complaint, with scarcely any general symptoms, to a violent inflammatory affection, or a malignant and putrid fever. It is the object of this Report to remind the army surgeon of these fundamental diversities of type, and of the very different methods of treat- ment which they render necessary. Appropriately to fulfil it, all that is essentia*! in regard to the description, causation, treat- ment, and prevention of dysentery must be reviewed as fully as the practical purpose of the paper will permit. In doing.so we shall confine ourselves to those pathological facts which have a direct relation to the treatment and prevention of the disease, leaving entirely aside the more or less speculative dis- cussions which the inquiry may suggest* Morbid Anatomy.—On opening the abdomen after death by dysentery, the relative positions of the intestinal folds is4 often altered ; tlie colon is most apt to Le displaced, its trans- verse portion occupying the pelvis; and invaginations of tlie large as well as of tlie small intestine are frequent. Sometiine& the peritoneum is injected, and in very rare cases inflamed. Perforation of the bowel is extremely unusual. The contents of the colon are fecal and mucous in the first stage ; but later consist of epithelium, a jelly-like exudation, false membrane^ blood, and pus. The raucous membrane in the small intestine is generally unaltered ; but in the large its color is of various shades, from a rosy red to a dark brown or even black, and is more or less softened in recent cases. Sometimes large fni)gou& granulations occupy the whole area of tlie ulcerated surface- In some violently acute cases of certain epidemics there is a wide-spread exudation of false membrane, wliile the tissue beneath is more or less gangrenous or sloughing. But more commonly the characteristic lesion is chiefly displayed by the mucous follicles. In the earliest stage of the simple acute, and later in cases of the subacute form, there is, along with a general redness and swelling of the mucous membrane, an enlargement of its follicles by the deposit within them of a grayish or yellow- ish granular matter, wliicli, by its increase, appears to deter- mine the ulceration of the follicles themselves, and of more or less of the surrounding mucous membrane and of the subja- cent cellular and even the muscular coats of the intestine- During this process the connecting tissue grows thicker and more dense, as if to resist the advance of the ulcerative process. Between the follicles tlic mucous inenibrane may also be destroyed by the extension of ulceration from them, by primary softening, or, as already intimated, by gangrene. The (irst is the most usual manner. As a consequence, large por- tions of mucous niomlu'anc may be removed, leaving tlie cellu- lar coat bare, or jiariinlly covered by islands of mucous mem- brane. On opening Ihe bowel these arc very apt to be mistaken5 for pscudo-meinbranons deposits, and tlic denuded cellular coat ■ for the healthy mucous membrane. Owing to the manner in which the intestinal ulcers are formed in d3'seiitery they have usually a circular shape, and often the edges are as sharp as if pieces had been cut from the raucous membrane with a punch. In healing, the suialler ulcers fill up from the bottom, while the ■edges advance inwardly, and gradually the cavity is obliterated; but it is doubtful if a true epithelial coating is ever formed anew. Larger ulcers contract in healing, and form a tough fibroid cicatrix which has a puckered aspect. The ulcers which have been described are always most nume- rous in the rectum, and also more perfectly formed there than in the upper portions of the large intestine. Indeed, it is evident from an examination of cases fatal at difi'erent periods of the disease, that the ulcerative process begins at the lower part of the bowel and gradually advauccs up wards. In the rectum it sometimes completely destroys the mucous membrane, while in the superior divisions of the colon the ulcers arc fewer and less profound. They seldom exist in the small intestine unless in cases complicated with typhoid fever. The mesenteric glands are eularged aud softened and sometimes contain pus. In cJiroiiic dysentery the mucous membrane of the colon is generally very much thickened, and it is studded with ulcers in various stages of cicatrization, and presenting appearances ■depending upon the type of tli-e disease. The simplest form is that in which the ulcerative process has been uncomplicated witli exudation. Here the ulcers may be of regular shape, with rounded and thickened edges and a wliitish surface; or their edges may, by their puckered aspect, denote a tendency to heal- ing ; or large and irregular ulcers may occupy the greater part of tlie circumference of the intestine, exposing the muscular coat by its liypertrophied fibres, a condition, indeed, which may affect tlic whole extciit of the rectum • or finally, at a moreadvanced stage still, tlie healing of extensive ulcers may occa- sionally produce a contraction or stricture of the bowel. In all of these cases abscesses in the cellular substance arouud the rectum are not uncommon. The exudation which has been referred to as belonging to certain grave forms of acute dysentery may, if the disease is greatly prolonged, become closely adherent to the raucous mem- brane, and even acquire a vascular connection with it, so that the raw surface which it leaves, on being removed, presents the- appearance of an ulcer. The false membrane itself is even susceptible of taking on the ulcerative process. It sometimes, also, assumes a fungous character and projects above the sur- face of the surrounding membrane. In very elironic foiMus of the disease, melanotic deposits are met with in the mucous membrane around healed ulcers, and elsewhere ; and in some cases the mesenteric glands are found to have undergone calcic fication. From this brief sketch of the lesions in dysentery it will be understood that although ulceration of the bowel is- seldom absent on post-mortem examination, there is necessarily an inflammatory process which precedes the loss of substance. In some cases of very rapid death from the typhoid form of the disease no ulceration has been detected, simply because time for its occurrence was wanting. Even tlie presence of blood in the stools is an insufficient proof that ulcers of the intestine exist. The practical value of this statement becomes apparent when we consider how much the efficacy of an appro- priate treatment must be increased, if it is applietl in tlie form- ing stage of the disease, before any injui-y to the structure of tlie intestinal mucous membrane has taken place. Definition and Forms of Dysentery.—Anatomically, dy- sentery is an inflammation of the follicles of the rectum and colon. Symptomatically it is a febrile affection characterized by colicky7 abdominal pain (tormina,) a constant and urgent dcnirc to go to stool (tenesmus,) and scanty mucous and bloody discharges. No- sologically, or according to its nature as a disease, it is a peculiar poisoning of tlic blood manifested by fever, and nervous dis- ()i-(ler or depression, and a follicular inflammation of the large intestine. Of this last proposition a sufficient proof is tiic total want uf proportion lictween the local lesions and the constitu- tional syuiptoms. The latter not only precede the former, l)ut may even prove fatal before the lesion of the intestine has developed itself. According to this view, which is suggested especially by the epidemic form of the disease, dysentery is analogous to typhoid fever rather than to the intestinal irrita- tion produced by acrid substances, and by piles, lislula, and similar local affections of the rectum ; for as in typhoid fever of a grave type the general phenomena predominate, and death itself mny occur before any ulceration of Peyer's glands takes pkice, so in dysentery a fatal issue may be quite independent <if intestinal changes, but present, on the otlier hand, all the evidences of blood poisoning. But while we must recognize in dysenttry a specific nature demonstrated by the uniform occurrence of a cliaractcristic lesion, whenever time is given fur this to form, we must admit that the whole symptomatic livery, or ty[)C of the disease is under the control of external circumstances ; that under particular conditions it presents typhoid symptoms ; in others bilious : in others, again, period- ical phenomena, all of which amy be superadded to or modify the essential characters of simple dysentery. It results from these facts that the essential jihenomena of dysentery may l)ecome of far less importance than tiiose which its accidental typo impress upon it; that the latter may determine its degree of gravity, and even indicate a treatment directed not so much against the intestinal symptoms and presumed lesions, as against the diathesis, or constitutional state which overlies them.8 For convenient study dysentery may be divided into Acute and Chronic, and the acute form into 31ild, Sthenic, Bilious, and Malignant. Of the Periodical variety a few words will also be said. Mild Acute Dysentery.—The earliest symptoms of this affec- tion are general malaise, soreness or pains in the back and limbs, debility, anorexia, and sometimes nausea and colic, and frequent calls to stool without any evacuation. But in other cases, diarrhoea, which is generally slight, may exist for several days before the more characteristic bowel complaint, and be itself not unfrequently preceded by constipation. The calls to stool become, however, more frequent and the discharges more scanty ; they are immediately preceded by borborygmi and colicky pains in the abdomen, and accompanied by a sense of weight in the perineum and anus, a painful straining or bearing down, and the passage of small quantities of fecal matter mixed with jelly-like mucus, tinged with blood, diffused or in streaks or small clots, and scalding the anus in its passage. Sometimes pure blood is discharged, particularly by persons subject to piles. The number of such stools varies from six or twelve to twenty-four every day. The abdomen is not usually tender, nor is the colic or the bearing down very severe. The heat of skin is moderate or scarcely perceptible ; the pulse slightly quickened; the tongue whitish, but moist; the appetite may be null, but is not always lost, and the thirst is moderate; but tormina and tenesmus are excited by all kinds of food except the very mildest. In this form an attack of dysentery is of one or two weeks' duration, and terminates by the gradual return of the alvine discharges to their feculent con- dition, and a copious later!tious dci)osit in tlic urine. Simulta- neously a full i>ei'spiraiion is sometimes observed as a critical phenomenon.9 Sthenic Dysenfery.—This form of tlie disease is distinguished by the full development and sthenic nature of the characteristic symptoms, which arc eminently those of an inflammation of the rectum and colon. It generally commences with a well-marked chill, followed by a hot skin and a full and frequent pulse. More rarely than in the milder form, is it preceded by simple diar- rhoea, or, if this occurs, it is more vehement, and is accompanied with nausea and even vomiting. With the reaction from the chill the face becomes flushed, especially on the cheeks, and the eyes are injected, while the frequent and tense pulse, the severe headache, and urgent thirst denote a high grade of fever. Colic of a very severe description and almost unremittingly, is expe- rienced ; and the abdomen, which is often tense and hard, but not nccessaril}' distended, is very sensitive to pressure, espe- cially in the left iliac region. Severe contusive or aching pain is also felt in the loins, extending to tlie thighs. But the chief cause of suffering is tenesmus, which in many epidemics is almost uninterrupted, and becomes excruciating while the patient strains at stool. It is, in some cases, nearly constant, even when nothing is voided, and tlie expulsive efforts bring on a protrusion of the mucous membrane of the rectum. The sensation is sometimes said to be as if a burning iron were thrust into the bowel. It is important to be noticed tliat the extreme degree of pain here described is by no means an unfa- vorable symptom, but may perhaps be rather considered as a measure of the patient's power of resistance. Tlie opposite condition, or complete inertia, is indicative of a much more serious danger. The quantity of matters expelled is in an in- verse ratio to the frequency and tlic violence of the expulsive efforts, particularly at the height of the disease. Near its com- mencement profuse discharges of blood may take place, which, indeed, afford some relief; but later, the stools consist of blood mingled with dense stringy mucus, or with the fibrinous pro-10 ducts of inflatninalion. These assume tlio form of slireds of false menil)raiie, or of masses resembliiit? suet, more or less in- tiiDalcly associated with blood. Yet even in tliis variety of the disease, blood is not always nor in large quantities found in the dejections, which are sometimes abnost suppressed, and in other cases have a lum])y appearance rcsemblinj^- imperfectly-cooked gruel. This is the form in which the fibrinous cxudatioa most fi-equently discharged. As the disease advances, the stooU have a fetid, sickening, or cadaverous odor, become more and more frequent, and at last are passed involuntarily, while the anus becomes exquisitely tender, and is surrounded by inflamma- tory redness. In some epidemics such stools are at times mixed, or alternate with others which arc more or less green and frothy, particu- larly on the surface, and have been compared to the scum which is seen floating upon stagnant water. The number of the stools docs not always gradually decline, but often they almost en- tirely cease, and, after an interval, are renewed with a tempo- rarily increased frequency. But in general, tliis interval becomes longer as convalescence approaches. Meanwhile there is extreme irritation of the bladder, and th^. scanty and high-colored urine scalds in its passage through the urethra. The thirst is intense, but all liquids, even the coldest, are apt to be rejected by the stomach, and to i)roducc renewed paroxysms of tormina and tenesmus. Often a severe buiming- pain in the alxlomen is complained of. At first the pulse is full as well as [Ve(|uent, but rapidly assumes a tci-se, wiry, concen- tralod character. The voice is interrupted and weak. The tongue is sodden and thickly coated in the early stage of some cases, l)ut afterwai-ds is more frequently contracted, sharp, and very red, and gi-adiially becomes dry, rough, fissured, brown, or blackish, in unfavorable cases ; but this condition is far from being constant; the features arc sunken and sharp, the nostrils11 and lips become fiili,i>-inous, and a dark-red bliisli appo;irs over the cheek bones. The skin of tlic wliolc body is harsh and dry. Tiiesc syni|)tonis arc most marked in cases appi'oncliiiig a falal termination, and inde])cndently of any epi(hMui(' inllu- ence, may even merac into others which arc characlcristic of the adynamic or malii^iiant form. The duration of severe acute dysentery may be stated at two to three weeks. BiJioKs Dyscnfery.—This form of dysentery should not be confonndod Avitli tliat in which the liver V)ecomes secondarily affected with inflammation, tending to the ])i'odnction of abscess. The latter is almost exclusively met with in warm clinni tos, o nd the fullest descriptions of it have been furnished by English practitionei'S in India, and French army surgeons in Algoi-ia. But l)i]ioiis dysentery, pro])erly so called, is also frerpienlly obsei'ved in temperate climates, and often, l)ut l»y no mciing exclusively, in malarious districts. Tts predomimint chnracters are gastric ond hcpntic disturbance and an excessive secretion of bile. It seldom assumes a distinct inflammatory and stlienic type, l)ut, on the conti-ary, has a decided tendency to pi-oduce debility and exhaustion. The invasion of bilious dysentery is apt to l)c mnrked by general coldness and extreme prostration, rather tlian by a rigor, properly so called. The sense of weakness is ])articn- larly rcreriT'd to the back and loins. At the same time thci'c is severe pain in the abdomen, with a bitter tnstc in tlic moulli, yellowisli tongue, constant nausea and efforts at vomiting, with copious discharges of bile from the stomach. 'I'here is gene- rally ])ain in the head, with vertigo, and irregulai- and transient oliills, tiie pulse meanwhile being in some cases full, and in others weak and thready. At first there is occasioimlly consti- pation, but more usually frequent and bilious stools, which are12 apt to continue for several days, wlien tliey become glairy and bloody ; or blood may be mixed with the dejections from the beginning, and predominate in them more and more as the dis- ease advances. Tiiese various degrees and kinds of admixture cause tlie color of the discharges to vary from pale to almost black. There is a peculiar tendency, also, to gaseous disten- sion of tlie bowels, and the evacuated matters are extremely fetid, exhaling a putrid or cadaverous smell. Tliis circum- stance may be owing in part to the large quantity of altered blood which the bowels contain. The stools are very frequent, and may amount to one or two hundred in twenty-four hours, while thirty or forty are passed, even in the mildest cases. As might be expected from tins circumstance tenesmus is sometimes constant and very distressing, and the urine scalds in passing. But ncitlier of these symptoms is so frequent or severe as in the purely inflammatory form of dysentery. Intense thirst may be noticed as a prominent symptom. In the worst cases, the tormina and tenesmus are constant, even in the short intervals between the evacuations, and eveu when the latter are abun- dant ; but cessation of pain,- excessive raeteorism, and hiccup, are among the worst signs, to which may be added paralysis of the lower extremities, of the mouth, tongue, or organs of deg- lutition. The duration of bilious dysentery is less than tliat of the inflammatory form, a favorable termination frequently occurring within a week, in mild cases, and within a fortnight in the more severe. On the other liand, it may terminate fatally at a period as early as the shorter, or as late as the longer jieriod. or even later, if an improper plan of treatment has been pur- sued in cases wliich tend naturally to a cure. MaUgnavl or Typlioid Dysentery.—Tiic ty[)hoid state is one which many acute febrile diseases assume, sometimes under inscrutable atmospheric influences, and sometimes under debili-13 tating, exliausting, and depressing causes, both physical and mental, and such as abound in camps, on board sliips, and in other places wlicrc human beings are crowded together. It seems not improbable tliat typhus fever (petecliial typlnis) is nothing more than this state in its simplicity, and carried to its extreme degree; for, in it no lesion of tlie solids can be found to explain its symptoms, except a tendency to disintegration, wliicli depends upon a previous disorder of the blood. But in all other diseases which present more or less analogous pheno- mena, tliere is also a local structural lesion which accounts for their specific (haracters, and distinguishes them from typhus fever. Typhoid fever is a blood disease, with dothinenteritis, and a more or less marked predominance of the typhoid state; and typhoid pneumonia an inflannnation of the lung, with the typhoid state superadded, and exerting a controlling influence on the local and general phenomena, and on tlie tendency of the local disease. Tiic eruptive fevers are very prone to assume this state, because, it may be presumed, in them, as in typhoid fever, the primary morbid change is in the blood itself. It is reasonable to suppose that, if exiernal circumstances favor, they will become complicated with that alteration of the circulating fluid which is characteristic of typhus fever, and that tliey will be more apt to liccome so than affections whose primai-y seat is in the solid ors-ans. Now, oliservation teaches us that bowel complaints arc more prevalent, as a general rule, than any other diseases in camps, barracks, hospitals, &c., because, in them the direct exciting causes of these complaints abound : from observation we also learn that in .such places, under circumstances peculiarly un- favorable to a vigorous performance of the functions, that all diseases, and those especially which afTcct the whole economy, tend to assume the typhoid type ; and, finally, we know that when tiiesc latter causes are greatly in excess, cases of pure typhus.prevn.il. In otlior words, the intensity of the cause becomes so great, that instead of merely displaying its action upon those already sick,and furnishing a typical physiognomy to othei- affec- tions, the typlious poison is powerful enough to generate its pecu- liar plienomena iu persons merely enfeebled, but not yet spe- cifically diseased. Consequently, there have been epidemics of diarrhoea, dysentery, pneumonia, intermittent fever, typhoid fever, and typhus, simultaneously in the same camp, hospital, or town, in which it seemed difficult to determine wliich was the original, and which the superadded affection, so intermingled did the periodical and the typhous phenomena become with one another, and'with those which belonged to the local lesions of several of the affections. An attentive analysis will, however, generally reveal which of the symptoms of any given case are owing to a local and material morbid change, and which must be attributed to the general blood or nerve disease. Or, if the type affection predominates in all the phenomena occasioned by the local disorder, it will still be possible to distinguish both the one and the other as we do the physical properties of a sul)- stance through a coating of varnish that invests it. Typhoid dysentery is, then, in its simplest form, a variety of dysentery in which the phenomena of the typhoid state are superadded to those which are characteristic of dysentery. To this alone tiie following description applies. The more complex cases will be alluded to under the head of Comj^lications. In the great majority of cases diarrhoea precedes the proper dysenteric symptoms for some time, particularly among those vrho liave been subjected to the influence of debilitating causes. When these have been in operation for a considerable time, the patient rapidly acquires a cachetic appearance upon the super- vention of the dysenteric symptoms proper, if not before, the skin becoming muddy and pale, or mottled also with ecchy- -moses, the hands and feet edematous, and the countenance15 sunken and listless. In wliatever degree these phenomena pre- sent themselves, tlie d3'senteric affection is accompanied at its A^ery ontsel, witli extreme, and often sudden, prostration, oppres- sion at tlie epigastrium, and a rapid increase of the evacuations. At first the mind is clear, or, if delirium is present, it is usually of the tranquil sort, l)ut in exceptional cases is maniacal. More generally the expression is stolid, vacant, careless, or apparently thoughtful; questions are answered but slowly, and there is no real delirium until the approach of death. In some cases, how- ever, there is incessant agitation, cliangc of {josturc in bed, com- plaint of the weiglit of the bedclothes, or of i)urning heat in the abdomen, while tlie surface of the body is quite cool to the touch ; or the patient curls himself up in tlie middle of liis bed and refuses to be disturbed. Tlie voice is very faint, and swallowing diflicult, and some- times there is vomiting, not only of liquids tiiat have been taken, but even of blood. Retching is very frequent, or a movement between that and hiccup, and maybe excited by anything swal- lowed, even by a few drops of water. Upon pressure, the ab- domen is sometimes complained of, particidarly at its lower part; but although spontaneous pain is occasionally very severe, such is not frequently the case. Tiie stools vary in number and quality. Sometimes they are few, sometimes almost constant; they are accompanied occasionally with excruciating tenesmus, but are often discharged without eitlier effort or pain. They are most frequent at night, and are excited by swallowing food. Their cpialities are extremely various. Often lirowii and mixed with mucus, or even scybalous; or wateiy and tinged with blood; or apparently formed entirely of decomposed blood; they are in some cases grayisli-wliite or chalky looking, or sanious, and exhale a horribly sickening cadaverous odor. These cliaractcrs may vary in successive evacuations, and, par-16 ticiilarly, stools containing the products of inflammation may alternate with others of a more or less fecal cliaracter. The urine is generally scanty and irritating, and occasions scalding in the urethra and strangury, and in some cases with a fatal tendency it is altogetlier suppressed. It may assume a brown color, due probably to dissolved blood-globules; and this is a grave indication. Tlie same remark applies to a fetid odor exhaled by tlie urine, the breatli, sputa, or perspiration, to a persistently bad, putrid, or saltish taste in the mouth ; to great and craving tliirst, or a sense of dryness in the mouth, when the tongue is moist, and to clamorous demand for drink in spite of its rendering the stools more frequent. In general the skin is dry and scaly, but it may also have a cold and sticky feel; and the nose, hands, and feet are often cold. Even when general perspiration occurs it is seldom critical. Petechias and vilnces may form, particularly upon the legs and arms ; pustules, blebs, and miliary vesicles are not unusual, and may be followed by ulcers. The gums may be swollen, dusky red, or bleeding ; and bleeding from the nose is not unusual. The pulse is feeble, l)ut its natural fre- quency is often unchanged materially. If it much exceed one hundred per minute the accompanying prostration is very great, or some complication (peritonitis usually) is forming. With tlie progress of the disease tlie hiccup, dysphagia, and debility increase ; the abdomen often swells, and the stools are passed involuntarily and unconsciously ; tlie tongue becomes iucrusLcd, and the teeth ai-c covered with dark and sonielimefi bloody sordcs; gangrene may attack the feet or parts subjected to pressure; and deatli takes place by exhaustion. If the dis- ease is fatal at an earlier stage coma or dclii-iiim may attend its close, which is sometimes hastened by erysipelas.17 CoMPLTOATloNR.—TIic inost important goncral diseases wliicti icomplicii te dysentery, especially in its epidemic form, arc iypkm uml lyplinid fever, intermittent fever, and seiirv}/. In refei-encc to the two forms cf fever first mcnlioucd, little need he added to what lias already been said, except that they moru or less obscure the dysenteric symptoms during tlicir ■conliiiimiico; hut if the patient survives their decline, those 8ym|)loms rca|)]icar, and by their peculiar gravity rapidly ex- Iiaust the powers of life. ]ii cases of dysentery, to which one of the olher diseases has been suiioradded, the intestinal Icsioiip do not n|ipoar to have their i)rogrcs3 suspended, although the diarrlioja may have ceased or become very slight as well as the ten(\smus. Afler life has been rapidly extinguished, with ex- haustion l)y fref|ucnt, tliin, wateiy, serous, sanious, or bloody stools of an excessively fetid character, and the other indica- tions of ii devitiilized blood and disintegrated solids, the mucou^t mendjrane of the large intestine is often extensively and deeply ulcei-aled, dai'k and even gangrenous, and sometimes there are found, besides, in the small intestine the characteristic lesions of ty|)hoid fever. l>ut, we repeat it, the clinical history of such ■cases is often extremely obscure. Epidemics of dysentery in malarious districts are, in common with many other affections wit,li a local lesion, more or lesp inflncnced by tlic cause periodical fevers. Not only do these predispose to attacks of the former disease, but it Avould seem that tlie predis[)Osing causes of the one, such as cold, dampness and IVdigne tend to develop the otiier. Not unfrcquently an attack of dysentery suspends the interiiuttent paroxysms, which rcfiii'n upon its decline. In some cases the two affections occur 8imnltnn(!ously, and the dysenteric sym])toms present |)eriodical exacerbations ; in others the i)hcnomena of the paroxysms of intermittent fevers arc dysenteric, the intermission being free 2J8 from Llio sympfcomR of ])otIi alTccUons. The latter form is hy far the least fi'equciit. The com|)li('atioii oi^ ■scurvy usually precedes the development of the dysenteric affection, and accompanies or is preceded by the diarrhoBa, which has been i-eferred to as the ordinary ante- cedent of camp dysentery. Its pro[)cr symptoms are paleness, emaciation, and extreme lassittide or aversion to laljor, de)cc- tion of si)irits, pains in tlie loins and limbs, sponuy and bleed- ing- yams, and purplish and livid specks or spots or indolent ulcers upon the legs, which also become o'dematous and cold, a,nd stifl; There is at the same time an aversion or indilference to food, and tlie pulse is small and feeble. If diai'rhrea exists, as it usually does, the stools are by turns liilious. watery, or bloody, and sometimes consisi, of pure blood. Upon the sn.per- vention of dysentery, witli its abdominal pains, tenesmus, and more frerpicnt stools, the scorbutic symptoms proper, if sli^-ht, arc not always aggravated, but arc rendered more intractable; but if already well developed they coincide wilh those of the dysentery itself, and the union of the two moi'hid pi'ocesses rapidly undermines tlie strength by completely sul)verting the reparative functions of tlic economy. Generally the complex disease then assumes tlic form of typhoid dysentery, willi an aggravation of all the symptoms v/hich de}iend upon a dissolu- tion of the blood. Among the other complications, and wliich need not liei'C be described, because they do not form any ]iroper union \\-ith the dysenteric symptoms, arc rlienmatism, dijildherhi. and parol His. The lirst may altci'iiate with dysenlerv. or rather be suspeinlcd during the progress of llic bowel anVclion ; tlie second is a grave occurrence in all iJio forms of the disease, but especially in the typhoid, which it is most apt to complicate; and the last, wliicli most fretiucntly occurs during (he decline of tlie at-19 tack, is least daiigoroiis wlicii it tcnninatos in suppuration, and jnosi, so when it suddenly or very ra|)i(llv sultsides. Ahscc-sH of the liver is a frequent eoin|)liealion ol'dysenlei-y in wai-ui clinuUes, and particularly ainonii; drunkiirds. in Ihis cotiuli-y, even in the SouLliorn States, it ai)pears to Ijc i-arely met willi. Convalescence.—Chronic Dysentery.—Dysentery is ])e- culiarly subject to relapses, even after its mildest attacks, unless great care be taken of the patient's regimen. The simplest form, indeed, if not ver}' impropeidy Iroaled, is followed by a speedy return to health, but even slight errors of diet, will occasion abdomiiml ])a,in and diai'rhcea ami perlnips some ten- esmus and diarrliooa, and somel.iines loss of power in liie sphincter aui. A tendency to sweating, ])arl,iciilai-ly at night, is fre(iuent ; the hair is apt to fall out ; boils may foiau in vari- ous parts of the body ; and abscesses about the anus and licmorrhoids arc not uncomniDn. If the patient remains in the place v/hcre the disease was contracted, the cure of se\i're dysenlcry is slow and difficult i!fven under the most; a|ipriipriate regimen, and withont this a rela|ise may occur even aflei- his removal to a more salidjrious locality. ^J'he intestinal nhcrs do not completely heal, and ttu; discharges are more or less constantly mucoiis, serous, purulent, or bloody ; the food passes rapidly through the bowels and is often discharged undigested; emaciation is persistent and extreme, and accom|)anied with liectii; symptoms; and occasionally perforation of the liowcl near ihe segmoid flexure of the colon lakes place. iMore fre- qu.-ntly thickening affects the coals of the bowel in this region, forming a stricture. These are the prominent phenonuMia of chronic di/scntenj. 7;«ra^w?i.—Simple acute dysentery of a mild tyi)e lasts from one to two weeks before complete convalescence is established.20 and (Jio severer iiiflnininatory forms, if uncoiiiplicii led, run llielr course in fioni two to tlirec weeks. J3ut these are only a|i|)ro\i- nialive lernis. The graver and eomplicalcd varieties of the disease may terminate fatally within a few days, ami the leiist severe, if improperly treated, or in unfavorable eircumstances, may be indefinitely jjrolongcd, and become chronic. iJiiK/nosis.—As stated in the definition, tormina, tenesmns, bloody stools, and fever form a group of symptoms peculiar to dvsentery. It may be added that the constitniional depression is greater in dysentery than in any affection which casually I'e- sembles it. Thus, a person subjected to bleeding piles nuiy be attacked with colic, tenesmus, and a discharge of blood from the rectum. But there is wanting any marked derangement of the nervous system, of the circulation, or of the organs of pri- mary digestion; besides which the history of the a I tack will reveal its special cause. The same remark is a]i[)licalile to cases in which irritant substances, food, or poisons, have occa- sioned similar symptoms. Prognosis.—The danger of dysentery depends chicflv upon its type. The mild form always terminates favorably under judicious treatment; the sthenic, and the bilious form, when ' simple, are those in which the method of treatment emiiloyed exerts the greatest influence on the rate of morlalily which they occasion, and in which, therefore, the largest field is open for medical skill. Typhoid dysentery is the least anu'iiablc to treatment, and is the form to which the greatest I'avages are attributable, as many as two-thirds of those attacked bv it falling victims in certain epidemics. The mortalilv in pi'o- porti<jn to the number attacked is always greatest at the com- mencement of an epidemic, as if the morbid cause w(M-e then most virulent; l)ut the aggregate mortality conlimies to iiicr(>ase for some time in proportion to the number of pcisons attacked, and then as gradually declines Avith the extent as well as the21 vii-iilcnco of Mic disease. The i-a(c of mortality is nlways gi-(':il('i- iviiionf>- tliosc wlio remain in the place whore nn epi- dciiiit' lirst l)r(>;iks out, than amoii^- eith(M- those ali'oady sick or those who lire siil)se(|ucntly attacked, and who ai'c I'emovcd to a more saliihrioiis siliiation. Tins remai'k is founded upon the exjx'riciice oCall armies which have been visited Ity the disease. may add that, olher thiuf^s beino,' equal, it is more fatal in onlinary liospilals and barracks than in the better ventilated and less ci'()wd(Ml (ield hospitals. It need scarcely be remarked that a pi-eviously good stale of health is an important liround of a favorable proLi'nosis, and that ill health, exhaustion by fatiu'ue, scanty or innutritions food, or wounds are e(iually iin- favoral)le in their influence. Malarious influences au'cravate the mortality in epidemics of dysentery, both l)y their ]»rcvionsly deliilitatinu- operation, and by their directly coniplicatinu- the graver disease. The special a'round of a favoi-able proo-nosis is simply the oiiiiinal slightness or the regular subsidence of the charac- teristic symptoms. Of unfavorable indications the violence of -the stheinc symptoms, in general, may be mentioned, Imt moi-e particularly, the sudden or rapid decline of these symptoms, wilh a corresponding exhaustion of |)ower. In the uioi'C or less t} phoid cases, whet.her those originally having such a character or ac(|iiiring it in the progress of llio disease, the following may be regarded as indications of danger. A^ery frcipient, fetid stools, i-esemliling the washings of I'aw flesh, or dark and gan- grenous in their odor; the sudden cessation of abdominal pain; repealed vonuting or hiccup, and paralysis of tlie sphincter ani; «uppi'cssion of urine; dysphagia, a dark dry tongue, and aptJiiB of the mouth; coldness of the extrennties, the nose, or ears; pelechiic and vihiccs upon the skin; a dull and leaden counte- nance! and muttering delirium, weakness of the voice, complete aphonia, and paralysis of the lower limbs.22 Catsrs. Cfi)iiafe, Smsorifi^ ((t-.—Alinosl, all wi-ilors n<i-vC'Q in Blaliiiu' llial (lyscntci-y is iiiiicli nioi-o (;f)iniiu)ii ainl I'alal in liot tliaii in cold climates, a,nd doid)tloss this statement is tiaie. par- ticularly in i-egard to the endemic disease. l]ut it is nc'verlho- less true that the prevalence of the disease in tcmperale (diniatcs is so a'reat, at times, that of fifty-fouv notable epidemics of dys- entei-y, wliicli ai'e recorded as havini;- prevailed in Europe and this country, all but eight occurred in localities where the win- ters are cold and the summers of modei-ate tempei'alure. From tlie e(]iiator to the Arctic regions, there is no region where dys- enteiy lias not assumed the foi-m of a destructive epidemic; and if fewer records of its ravages in hot climates exist. ])erhaps it is because the inhaliitants are not accustomed to give their medical experience a place in their scanty literature. The passage from summer to autumn is the season when dys- entery is most prevalent. Of fifty recorded epidemics, ihirty- 8ix occured at this period of the year. The most evident con- ditions for its generation arc hot days and cool nights. It has been found to occur when these were apparently the only mor- bid innuences ; but frequently another atmospheric condition peculiar to that season of the year exists simultaneously, viz., moisture in the form of exhalations from the ground, or more commonly the precipitation of water from the air by its con- tact with tbe colder earth, or with the surface of rivers. |ionds. &('. ; in other words, cold fogs. Bv them the |ierspiralion i^x- cited by t,li(> day's heat, is suddenly checked, and tlu' discliarge of the effete results of the decom]iosition from tli(> skin, which tli(! heal, doiilitless renders unusually active, aluaiptiv c(\ises. the (()!■(■(> ()(■ the recoil fiills upon lli(> oro-an which at the (Mid of the -;iimmer is weakest, and proliably finds an exit through the S]icci(ic channels, the glands of tln^ I'cctuiii and colon, which are the primary seat, of organic cliaim'c in dys(>iitcry. In all epidemics of dysentery oci'urriiig at the pin-iod here referred23 to, tlic (liscapoboa-iiis to decline on (lie nearer approacli of cold wcntlicr, and generally ceases to prevail liy the month of November. Tlic rreqiient occurrence of dyscntci-y in tlie aniumn, and in localities whci'c periodical fevers prevail, as well as the occa- sional union or alternation of the two affections in the same per- son, has lent some color to the opinion that both forms of dis- ease arc due to the same poison or malaria. But if malaria is regarded as a simple agent, the doctrine is iiotonly improbable, but incredible. On the other hand, considering marsh miasm as a compound in which a specific poison fitted for generating pei'iodical fevers is associated with (he peculiar ])roducts of vegetable decomposition, their joint agency in the prodnctiou of the two diseases liecomes readily explicable. It is very cer- tain that epidemic dysentei-y often exists where the fevers in question are uidcuown, ])ut where the atmosphere is loaded with tlie exhalations of decomposing animal and vegetable sid)- stauces; and on the other hand, that these fevers prevail quite iiide|)endently of dysentery in malarious regions. Such facts are quite inconsistent with the hypothesis of a single morliid poison being the ellicieut cause of iiot h diseases. It is fiirlJiei-to be considered that, miasmatic fevers induce a state of debility and impoverishment of the blood which must ncccssai'ily promote and intensify the operation of all the direct- exciting causes of dysentery, and particularly of crude and unwholesome food and foul ail'; and conseipienlly that, such conditions favoring, dys- entery will be apt to prevail along with periodical fevers in camps and barracks, and similar aggregations of men, when suflicient attention is not paid to t,li(! cleanliness and ventilation of the t,<'nts, cliaml)ers, ttc. But, independenl|v of any such predisposing cause as niarsh miasm, the condition of large bodies of nuMi nmy be im|)aircd by otJier agencies, so as to render dyscjitcry C])idemic amongtliem. To tliese its origin may be traced at seasons of tlie ycaF wlien tlie cause in question docs not operate, e. _</., in niidwinler. It is tlien, especially, that a neglect of hygienic measures is attended with the most fatal results ; when the inclemency of I he weather, prompting an effort to economize fuel, or to disj)cnse with it, induces the poorer classes of citizens to shut out tlie air, as perfectly as possible, from their ill-built dwellings ; und soldiers, crowded in tents, to supply, by their animal heat, the warmth which they require. They forget, or do not know, that every moment the}' are generating a poison which contaminales the atmosphere, and probably clings to evei-y fixed arlicle within the dwelling, and, sooner or latei-, prostrates them as victims to typhus or to dysentery, or to both combined in one disease. It is a remarkable fact that the only place, in noiili- ern latitudes, where cholera raged as an epidemic in winter, was St. Petersburg—a city in which all the houses remain her- metically sealed during the cold season, and are heated l)y stoves in such a manner as almost entirely to prevent a renewal of the air. The history of typhoid dysentery is equally in- structive, for it has always prevailed in crowded ships, and especially slavers ; in prisons, barracks, besieged places, and canips, where men were crowded together, the air was imperfectly renewed, and the exhalations and excretions were allowed to mix with the atmosphere, and poison it; and when to the.-e in- fluences were added, as more direct and exciting causes, inclem- ent weather, excessive fatigue, depressing emotions, inteniper' ance, and insufficient or unwholesome food, and water eitlicp naturally impure, or rendered so by holding decaying matters in suspension. So influential does the last named cause become, even in ordinary civil life, that, as it has been shown in Eng- land, the population, in the districts which suffer the highest dcatli-ratcs from bowel affections, bi'cathes or drinks a largft amount of putrefying animal refuse. Salt, cr unsound provi-sioiiH, ])!ul i\r(! soiiiel.iiiios acciiscMl of firoiliicing dy.-ciit<'i-v. lull tlicy iire iiisiiiriciciil, o;iiis('s, iiiilr'.-s ;i iHi'ilisposi- tinii is cn'atcd by lliosc; wliidi nunc pi(i(omi(|I\ iind lailically aH'ci-t, llic (■(•oiioiiiy. iiiid |i;ii-ticiilai-ly Iniil air iiiid Ok: vicissi I iides of fiiiliiiiiii aii(J \\ inter wcallicr. ICitwcn'c otlicrwi-c, d\ s(?n- tery in llio ai-niy ami navy would not Ix; so <ien(;rally conlined to (hesc Iwo seasons. Imt woiilil ('oincid(Mit. with Caiilly pro- visif)nin'_!', wliicli is (;onlin(;<l to no season, Inil is niosL rr(!(|ii(,'iat in niidwintei-. A siniilai- leniark is a|t|ili(.';ildc lo llio use of fi'uit. Il is most alitnidanl. w!i(,Mi dvsent.ery is l<,'a~L |ii-i'vali,'iit, from May to Sepleiidier : iind all experiimco shows thai some ripe fruits are valunlde remedies in this disease. IJndoulitcdly, hf)we\('r. unripe (Vint of anv kin<l. oi- :in excessive use of si^uie speedes. such as undoiis and oran^ics with their pidp. also un- cooked pears find apples, may lieconu! excitin<i' cnu-es of dysiin- tery. Finally, it may bo st.'itel t'nt sp:)radi(; dvs'Mitei-v can generally ite traced to so no exn')-ure to <;old and da'iipiie-s. or to some eri-oi- of diet. Imt that its epidemic form is (piite as apt to occui' without anv definilc; e\(dtin2' cause. The ro'('a'/io'is^<'^s of dvseutiM'y has been Itolh maintained anil deided. The truth appears lo Ik; that its milder varieties are not (;onla;:iou-. Ind that it< tvphoid forms an- hiuldv so, and liiat its int(;rniedial(! jri'ades sometimes, how<;ver, raiely, disnlav this pro|»ertv. There is abundant evidence that the disease has been conn licated bv the directions of the patients, by the privies or close stools Ihev have used, and bv the clothes tliey have worn or soiled. NiiiHcrous instances prove that the introduction of a siniidc; cas<; of dysentery into a hospital has been followed \>y a dilfusion of the disease amon.L' the patients ; that the arrival of such a patient in a liealtliv neiuhlH.rhood has Ijeen followed by tlie attack of persons in dii-ecMcommuni- eation wiih him ; that persons employed in the waids of those Bick with dysentery have, without being themselves alVected,26 cari-iod llie disease to tlieir families ; and, finally, tliat tlie at- tendants npon dyscnleric patients, even when they did nol con- tract the disease, exhibited its malignant influence in numerous sul)(!Utaneous abscesses and an erniition of scro purulent Ijlebs (rupia.) These are sufficient reasons why, in the public service at least, the most scrupulous precautions should be taken, on the one hand, to prevent the concentration.of dysenteric patients in close apartments, and, on the other, to restrict, as much as possible, tlieir communication with other patients, or with persons who are still in health. It is very doubtful whether dysentery attacks the same person, twice. 'J'hat it does so occasionally is probable ; that it does do so frequently is certain. But there is still a question whether it is to be raidced in this respect with typhoid fever or with typhus, both of wliich arc contagious, but the former pro- tects from subsequent attacks as pci'fectly as small-pox, while the hitter nuay occur in the same person an indefinite number of times. Treatment.—Any attempt to describe the treatment of dys- entery shows the propriety of studying the several forms of the disease, as has been done in this paper. Each ol' them requires a procedure which would be improper or insufficient in any other form. So extremely diU'erent arc these methods, that, while in sinqile dysentery the essential remedies are almost wholly ncgalJve, and the cure may be iuti'usted lo nature alone, the ciroid.s of nature arc too oficn unavailing in the typhoid variety of the disease, and the vigorous intei-vcntion of art becomes inq)era,tivcly necessary to coml)at. the siqxM'added or ad\(Mililious state of the system. The bilious phenomena which predominate! in another variety woidd be aggravated by llie ajipropriate remedies of the typhoid form, and in cm I licr (d'these the antij)hlogistic method wouM be inappropi-ialc, although it27 is sonielinii's uruciilly dcinamlod in slliciiic dysonlorv. Finnlly, tli(» pcriodicul I'onii ol' dysciitci'V ciiils (oi- ;i. scpai-nlc and s|)('cilic remedy. Xor is llioi'eaiiy nicdicinr' which can wilh proprifdy be calh'd aiili-dysciiloidc ; for althouLih luorc lhaii oiio has Ixmmi Taiiiit<'(l as such, and 1ms even seemed in (;erl,a,iii epiihanics io be enih»\vcd wilh specific ]iowci's, a unifc exl,en(h'd cxpci-ifuce has dissipated the l)clief, and reduced it to a lev(d withiiMnn- remedies whose vii-lues arc apparent, only in particular slaL^en or types of the disease. Trcdfmriif o>' J/ild Dysentery.—The first step sliould he to dii'ect tlie patient to keep his heil. for I'est is indispensaJ»h» to tlie cure of every form of dysentery ; and the next to i'es!i-ict his food to the mihh'sl, farinaceous arti(d(!s. and especially lo idee water made tlnn. and strtMiii'thened liy the additio;! <d' from one- fourth lo onedialf of its (pianlil\- (d" ndllc. The diduks should consist of thin idee oi' barley waler, uaim water, etc. In many coses, this reuimen, without any medicine wdiatevei-, Avill he siilfi(dent for the cui-e. It mav, however, be expedited hy the adnninslration ol' from half an ounce to an ounce of casloi- oil, or from |i>n to twenty gi'ains of calomel, followed in six or ei.uiit hours liy Ihe castor oil. Eithei- dose imiy be i-epcatcil on the thii'd day. or the calomel nmy be pi'CscrilK^d upon the first and the oil upon the third day, and should be Liiven in the inoi-niiiL;-, so that its op(M'a,tion may be ended by evenim;-. wdiea a small opiate drau,t>-lit, of from livi^ lo lifleen drops of hiuda- iium or of wim^ of opium, or IVom li\ (> to len u'rains id' Dovei-'s powder, may lie administei'cd lopi'omdie rallier tiian lo enforce sle(-p, lo allay lenesmns, and modei-ale the fre(iiiency of the stools. ]f llie-^e measui-es are adopted from th(> first appearsince of the dvsenlei-ii'. sympt(mis, Ihey will .u'cnerally arrest Ihe alUudc in from three! lo six dsiys ; but if they are not employed until28 sevcrnl dnvs linvo elapsed lliev will he found Ics.-i prnm|)l,!y efficient, and must be repeated, tlie pur.i^cs every second day- and tJic mild opiates at niu'lit. nntil tiie tormina and lenesmiia have ceased, or nearly so. When this point is i-eached aeetat© of lead in the dose of one u'rain, or of nitrate of silver in t.liQ dose of a qnai'tcr or one half a u'rain, with oiic-sixlh of a <>'raia of opinm. may be j^iven every four or six hours in pilular form. But Ihesc i'emedi(is should at ou'e l)e suspended oi' their dose, diminished, if they appear to cxcile pain in the abdomen, or to, increase the quantity of blood or mucus in the stools. After two or three days they should be g'radiially diminished in fre^ quency of administration or in dose, and then suspended. In their place infusion of cliann^mile, quassia, or Colombo m;iy be prescribed until the appetite and dijjcstive power have been restoi-ed. As the frequency and the bloody appearance of the stools diminish, the food may consist of boiled milk and lime walcr in the proportions of two-thirds of the former and one-thii'd of the latter, witli the addition of rice flour, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, or stale bread. The yolk of a fresh eu-.u' stii-red ia boiled and sweetened milk, pure or diluted, is nnlrilious and generally well digested. The return to solid fond sliould be vei-y gradual, it should be preceded by multoii or chicken brolli thoroughly freed from fat, and taken in small (piantilics at a time. This tender miitt,on, broiled (piickly and not loo much, may be (;autiously substituted fbi- the move li(|uid diet, and eaten with stale bread, or bread and butl,er. Tn'iil incut of SI hen ir or Injlannaalonj Dyscnlei'i/.—The typi- cal cases of this form of dvsenl,(M-y, as they have been desci'ibed in the pi'csent paper, evidently call for a prompt ti-ealinen(. and it might seem for strongly antiphlogistic measures. Ibit the appearance of violouco in the sym|)toms conveys an inntressioa29 of power in l.lioiii and in (lie pn ticiil, wliicli the o|)(>r:i t ion of siicli nicasiii'os proves lo be dcsltisive; I'or uiuler their use the sircni^-th is vcr)- ii|it lo fail suddenly, and the disease to assume a low aslJieuie Ivpe. This efleet is inlclli^-ible when we renieinher that dysentery is not a simple inllammation oi' the inleslinc, I 'but a systematic disease of which the intestinal lesion is merely a local incident, and subordinate in its importanc(^ to the alTec- tion which involves the whole economy. IJence the apparently clear indication for venesection in the necessily of alhniii^- the general \ iolencc of action and the local distress is calculated only lo mislead, as it has done many physicians who al'lerwards 'abandoned it as mischievous. 'J'hc abstraction of blood by cups or hMi'ches near the seat of the local distress is, however, ■Si paliiaiive, but only a palliative, which should not be neg- lected, particularly when the reu'ion of the sigmoid flexure of ihc t'olon is very tender u})on ])r(!ssui'e, or the sensibility of the ' 'abdomen renders the existence of a peritonitis probalilc. If the patient is robust and tlu? puls(; of uond force and volume, saline laxatives constitute the most ellicient and the promptest- means of relief. Ei)som salts, or still bet ler, Rochello isalls, in the proportion of one ounce of either to a (pmrt of •water, of which a wincgdassful is given every two hours, will /generally in the course of a few hours diminish or even sus- pend (Mitirely the tenesmus and produce a free dischai-ge of ■'bilions and watery stools. After this treatment h;is been ])ur- I'Sued for eigliLeen or twenty-foui- iioui-s, it should be suspended ■ for an e(pial S])nce of tinu;, and meanwhile doses of three or (ivo I grains of Dover's powder i-epeated at intervals of thre(> hours, I'ilfler which the saline may be resunujd as at lirsl. 'i'wo or three such courses arc generally sudicient, and in the cases I feS])(MMally referred to constitutji the most (drectual palliative of I'the local distress, and the speediest cure of the disease. In the i Intervals between the courses of saline laxatives, weak chicken30 or inultoii brotli is gcncraHy well borne; bul, if not, (.lie amy- laceous preparations may be substituted. The copious use of rice water or barley water, or, still better, of rennet whey or of chicken water, should be encouraged. ]f the patient is not of a vigorous constitution and is not affected with purely sthenic dysentery, purgative doses of calo- mel arcpi cfci-ablc to the salines. Tliese should lie pTcsci-ibed in the dose of twenty grains, wilJi a grain of oi)iuni in a single dose, or in two or tln-ce clones of from five to ten grains of calomel, and one grain of o|)ium in each, to be taken at intervals of six or eight hours, and followed, after a similar space of time, by aa ounce of castor oil. Usually, before the lattei- medicine is ad- niinistei'cd, there is a marked abatement of the patient's suffer- ings and of the frequency of tiie stools, and the calomel has not to be repeated. Under this medicine the ev^acuations also change their ciuiracter, and contain bile and feculent matter rather than blood. The remainder of the medical treatment may in general be confided to live grain doses of Dover's powder every live or six hours, or from three to five grains of ipecacuanha, with half a grain or a grain of oi»iuin at like intervals ; or, if the sthenic character of the symptoms be still decided, a grain of calomel may be added to each dose of either of the powders just referred to. But such an addition is not generally advisable, owing to the i-isk of inducing salivation. If the stools oblige the palieut to rise frequently at night, and so prevent his obtaining rest, a full dose of opium (one or two grain?) or eight or ten grains of Dover's powder should be administered at bed time. En(!nnita are useful in this form of dysentery, if in any acute form, of which there is serious doubt. If frequenlly repeated, they arc excessively annoying, and often appear to augsiicnt the iri-ilabiliiy of the rectum. But occasionally and appropri- ately employed, they serve to palliate the tenesmus, and the ir- ritation of the organs adjacent to the rectum. For this pur-31 poso iiicy may consist of half a ]iint of cold waler oi- of ((^|ucl flaxseed |(>a, accordiii<>- lo tli(> iiuprcssioii winch the two make upon Irial ; oi- of two ounces of IVesli melled lard oi- s\V(^ct oil ; or, limilly. of from twenly (o sixly drops (d" landanum in ninci- hi,a'e. This last should he uiven in vei'y small bullc, no( cx- ccedinu' half a wine^udassfnl. In the de(diiie of the a,tlack solu- tions of nili-ale of sil\'ei-, (<^v. ii (o <^\\ v in a wineudassl'nl of Avalei'.) or llio same (juanlily of li(]uid coiilainin_u' from live to lifteen drops of (he dilnled solution ol' suhacetai(^ of lead, nniy be used as eneinata Iwo oi' ihree limes a day. Opiate supposi- tories, conlainiiiii' IVom one (o three tirains of opium, are some- times ])re|'ei-al)le lo injeclions. "Warm emollient ])oidliees of Indian oi' flaxseed meal applied to lh(> ahdomen are very soolhinu', at least upon Iheir (ii'st ap- plicalinn. and may lie rendered moi'e so hv being nnide with tlie liquor from a decoelioii of hops, oi- l)y being' moislened wilh laudanum. AVoolen clolhs wrung out of liot walei' and sprinkled wilh oil of lurpenline form a \cry useful epiiiieu: for tii(^ same ])nrpose ; and linimenls of camphorated oil and chlo- roform ar(> not wilhout their advanlage-^. If such a|)pliea I ions as lli'-<e fail (d' giving i-rdief. :i blislering ])lastei' ov(!r Ihe seat of pain will geiKM'ally succeed. Tl should not remain applied lonii-er than llireeor four hours, aflei' which lime vesication will readily occui- under a warm poidlicc? or even a dressing of simple eerale. AVhen the aculo sym]itoms have all detdined, and (he number of stools has fallen considerably, and (.hey no longer eon(ain muen.-: 01' blooih all olhei- ntedieiiK^s may be laid aside? in favor of aeelai.e of lea,d and ojiiunK of wliicli one grain of tlie I'ormer and hall'a grain of (lie la(l(M- may lie adndiustered every Ihrec, four, or live hours, the in'ervals between (he doses being gradu- ally huiglhened as the IVc(|uency of iIk; disehai-ges diminishes ^ and their coDsislcncc increases. This combination is greatly32 su]){Mi()i- ill officacy to any prcparalion wlialever of vcl^cIuIjIp aslriii.ueiils. If, as soincliiiu's liappeiis. il. occasions scyltalous dejections, it, slioiild he snspended for a day, and a small dose, of perliajis half an ounce ol" castor oil, a(]niinistered, to cleanse the colon. If, after this, loose stools continue, the lead should be resumed, but not otherwise. The cautions in regard to diet during convalescence need not be rc|iealed here, but it may be rcniai-ked that they ought to be most sedulously observed in this gi-aver form of dysentery. Treatment of Bilious Dysentery.—The characteristic symp- toms of bilious dyscntei'v, it will be remembered, indicate de- rangoment of the stomach and liver, cither with active iuflara- matory symptoms, but less so than in the last form, or showing a tendency towards an adynamic condition of the system. The peculiarity of the treatment which it requii-es is, that while evacunnis arc not less important than in sthenic dysentery, emetics take precedence of ]iurgatives. If the patient is early seen, t wenty or thirty grains ol' i])ecacuanha should be adminis- tered, and its operation, wMien once fairly begun, should be as- sisted wi.th copious draughts of wai'm barley water. The relief afforded by this evacuant is sometimes very decided. It should be followed, as soon as the stomach is settled, with a mild saline laxative largely diluted, such as half an ounce or on ounce of Ivochellc salts, or of cream of TaiMar in a pint o[' water, of which a. wincglassful uniy be admiuislered every two hours, with four or five drops of wine or tincture oC opiinu. It is w<dl known that ipecacuanha when first introduced into Eui-opciin practice was liekl to be a sj)ccilic for dysentery, for it was so considered in South Ameiica, whence it came. It was llicu (>nipIo3cd as follows: Two drachms of the bruised root wen; inlused over night, or else l)oiIed in four ounces of water, which were administered early in the morning to the33 patient fasting'. This dose, prepared from tlic same portion of ipecacuanha, was repeated for two or three consecutive days. We are assured that it strengthened rather tlian debilitated. 'Quite recentl}' we learn that the remedy is still regarded as a spccilic in Peru, and that it should be prescribed in tlie follow- ing manner. From lialf a drachm to a drachm of powdered ipecacuanha, mixed witli a little syrup and water, is given early in the morning, and the patient is directed to lie quietly and to avoid drinking anything to excite vomiting. Night and raorn- iug an enema is administered of the infusion of bruised ipecac- uanha in twenty-four ounces of water to which one ounce of "syrup of morphia" is added. The powder and the enema are thus employed for three or four successive days. Little vomit- ing is produced, but the second or third dose causes copious bil- ious stools, which is the proposed effect of the medicine. When this is accomplished, an ounce or two of castor oil is exiiibited, and when it has ceased to operate, the evacuant treatment is ended. Tlie cure may then be intrusted to mild astringents and opiates. If the case is too urgent to admit of the delay necessary for tiic systematic plan here indicated, it is advised to administer ten grains of powdered ipecacuanha and one grain of opium every six or eight hours, and the enema above described, night and morning, until the urgent symptoms are arrested. (Whittinguam, yi/n. Journ.of Med. ScL, Oct., 18G0, p. 381.) Instead of seeking either the emetic or the specific operation of ipecacuanha alone, we may obtain its peculiar benefits through tiic cmcto-cathartic cflcct of ipecacuanha and calomel together, by administering twenty grains of the former with ten or (ifteen grains of the latter. On tiic next day the saliye Bolutions already recommended, and on the following day the calomel alone may be repeated, or if the gastric disturbance still Ibi-ms a prominent symptom, the ipecacuanha also. But 334 tliis method is applicable cliiefiy in the forming stage of the attack, at which time, if thecvacuant operation is thorougli, the further progress of tlie disease may be arrested or rendered very mild. Its use, however, should be restricted in cases in which the constitutional vigor is but slightly impaired. We cannot have too strongly impressed upon the mind that calomel, invaluable though it be on account of its gentleness as a purgative and its specific operation on the liver, may nevertheless expose the patient to danger by its primary de- pressing influence, and by the possibility of its occasioning salivation, or by the other and remoter effects of mercurial poisoning. In the decidedly sthenic variety of dysentery, the danger of these accidents is, indeed, very slight; and even in the bilious form they are comparatively small, if the medicine is used as a purgative only : but in either form they are greatly increased by tlie vicissitudes of military life. It, therefore, be- comes the duty of the army surgeon not to employ mercury in large or in small doses unless simpler remedies have proved in- eflicacious in other cases of the disease. When in doubtful cases it has been prescribed, its sojourn in the system should be prevented by the timely administration of castor oil or saline laxatives. It may not be amiss to remark that ipecacuanha in tlie small dose of one grain every four or six hours, has been proclaimed as a specific for all the active forms of dysentery. A larger dose than this occasions so much distress from nausea as to render it ineligible for repetition. In bilious dysentery the premature exhibition of opiates is to be sedulously avoided, because they check the secretion of bile wliich it is desirable, on the contrary to promote. But when once bilious evacuations have been procured, the administration pf small doses of wine of opium or of Dover's powder may be35 cautiously resorted to for allaying pain and lessoning the dis- charges. ^ In this variety of the disease, even more, perhaps, tlian in the purely inflammatory form, a diet composed in part of acidulous drinks, is grateful to the patient. The pulp, eitlicr of roasted apples, or of ripe grapes, has been found peculiarly serviceable ; and in no other description of dysentery is buttermilk more eagerly taken by those who are used to it as a drink, and some- times by those who are not. We have carried many cases of simple and of asthenic dysentery to a safe issue with no other medicine or food than this acidulous and nutritious liquid. Panada may likewise be mentioned liere as a form of nourish- ment adapted to all the active forms of the disease. It is made as follows : Take an ounce of stale wheat bread, and pour on it a pint of boiling water. When the mixture has stood for an hour, beat it up and boil it for ten minutes. It may then be sweetened, and flavored with a little wine nnd cinnamon, or nutmeg. The above mentioned varieties of food may be alter- nated with diluted milk and farinaceous articles, and rennet whey may be freely taken as a drink. As the symptoms subside mutton tea made from the lean meat and freed from fat still further by skimming, may be allowed with stale bread or rice ; but solid food, as in the other forms of the disease, is very gradually and cautiously to be resumed. Treatment of Malignant or Typhoid Dysentery.—This aflTec- tion, in its worst form, that is, when besides the typhoid state it is complicated with scurvy, is but little, if at all, amenable to medical treatment. It was tin's form of dysentery, which, like a pestilence, ravaged tlic British army in the Crimea, and of wliose treatment the official report to Parliament holds' the following language: "The medical officers of the army were unanimous in their opinion of the inadequacy of mere drugs inthe treatment of tJrCsc affections, and in the nnmerou!? reports whicli we liave consulted, almost every medicine 'Mf mentioned either with disrespect, or in terms of very sparing commenda- tion : but of tliose which are most favorably alluded to—opiunti and the combination of gray powder [mercury with chalk,] ipe- cacuanha, the mineral acids, and tlie preparations of iron seem to have enjoyed the greatest degree of conGdence ; charcoal also was administered in some regiments, alone and in combi- nation with camplior, with apparent advantage, and quinine was early resorted to on accouut of the periodic nature of these affections in some instances • but no decided testimony to its usefulness can be procured, and it was more often pre- scribed only in the convalescent stages. During the early period of the siege, of all the remedies which were had recourse to the most constantly in use were the astringents, vegetable and mineral, and of these by far the most valuable iu the gene- ral estimation was opium, for it served to induce sleep, (an im- portant consideration,) to moderate the intestinal dischargeSy sustain the capillai-y circulation, and to. give tone to tlie smaller vessels, it required, however, to be used with caution, and if pushed too far, it lowered tlie circulation and predisposed to gangrene in the parts most distant from the heart; tlie other astringents were of doubtful merit and sooii sank inta disre- pute ; for though in some cases, when diarrhoea seemed to have degenerated into a liabit, fi-om mere want of tone and elasticity in the system, they might have provc-d useful in controlling the flux, yet .... it will appear extremely questionable whether these remedies were not, in most cases, of doubtful application^ and whether tlicy may not sometimes have proved injurious by suddenly and forcibly arresting the course of the flux, and thus precipitating the patient into a reactionary febrile state. Upon this point, however, it is obvious that every observer will have formed his own opinion, and we shall, therefore, only further37 remark, that in our own experience, that whidi tlic strongest styptics were only able to control for a few hours, and with great inconvenience, nny, often much pain to the patient, a few days on a diet of rice milk, of potatoes, and essence of beef, sufficed lo arrest; and we were, therefore, forced to conclude, that these affections, in their primary design, were conservative of nature, and that they were only to be successfully and safely combated by removing the necessity of such a drain from the system, and introducing into the circulation the elements of healthy blood—good food ; and of healthy sanguification—pure air, (fee." The report goes on to remark that when the diarrhcea was marked by the appearance of undigested aliment (salt meat) in the dejections, lime juice was found a very useful remedy, and also when the bowel complaints were associated with a scorbutic taint of the system. It was administered two or three times a day, in doses ranging from one to three ounces, with sugar and water. Even in diarrhcca of the more severe or dysen- teric character, it never proved injurious if exhibited in barley or rice water, and in combination with opium. It is to be borne in mind that the scorbutic element whicii tlie lime juice was employed to correct can never present itself if the soldiers receive a proper supply of fresh meat and vegetables, and due attention is paid to their hygienic condition. The views and precepts here presented are in full confir- mation of those contained in the writings of all tlio eminent physicians in Europe, whether British or continental, who have treated of this subject. It may be added that these writei-s are agreed in regard to the value of external stimulant appli- cations to the abdomen, such as spice plasters, sinapisms, and particularly turpentine stupes made by sprinkling spirits of turpentine upon woollen clot;h8 wrung out of hot water. When the condition of the patient does not contra-indicate the use of38 blisters, their application to the abdomca during a period of from three to six hours is often of essential service. If the skin is very harsh and dry, it should be frequently sponged with chlorinated water or with vinegar. Alcoholic drinks, although they may appear to be indicated by the extreme prostration of the patient, must be very cautiously prescribed, for however they may tend to rouse his flagging energies, they are also, by continued use or in large quantities, very apt to exhaust the vital powers. A similar danger, it has already been stated, attends the use of opium. The decoctions of Peruvian bark and Huxham's tincture are preferable to quinia, when a tonic and not an anti-periodic operation is intended. Camphor, valerian, serpentaria, ammonia, and also turpentine have been recommended, as internal stimulants, but they are ineligible because they tend to disorder the stomach and irritate the bowels. Perhaps the only medicinal substance besides opium which is appropriate for internal use in this form of dysentery is nitrate of silver. It may be prescribed in doses of one or two grains, and in pilular form, every four hours, until a change in the quality or the frequency of the discharges takes place. Although this remedy is not so efficacious in the extreme cases of the variety of dysentery under consideration as when the 'vigor of the constitution is less completely undermined and the character of the disease is simpler, it has the advantage of being perfectly innocuous in the doses which arc here advised. But whatever medicines and whatever varieties of food may 1)0 employed to combat tlie dysenteric, the typhoid, or-the scor- butic element of the disease, they will be of little avail unless their influence is sustained by appropriate hygienic measures, and particularly by a change of air. A constant renewal of the air is an essential element of the cure wherever dysenteric patients are treated, and it is,*if possible, more imperatively necessary when the form of the disease is the one at present39 under consideration. But no degree of ventilation in tlie tents or wards occuiiied by the sick in tlie locality where the disease broke out, will C(jual in ciSciency their removal to a more salu- brious situation. Treatment of Periodical Dysentery.—Dysentery complicated with periodical fever is amenable to quinia in pi-oporlion to the predominance of the periodical type, that is to say, in pi'0])ortion to the distinctness with which there is a freedom from all active symptoms in the periods between the paroxysms. When the suspension of these symptoms is most complete, qiiinia alone will frequently, indeed generally, suffice to terminate the com- plex disease ; when, however, the dysenteric phenomena persist between the pei-iodical exacerl)ations, quinia may ari'cst the latter without innterially influencing the former. A compound trealment then l)ecomes necessary, in wliich, if gastric derange- ment is [)resent, an emetic dose of ipecacuanha and calomel (twenty grains of the former to ten or hftcen of the lattei') should be ])i'eniised, and when its opei'ation has ceased, quinia may be prescribed in solution, in the dose of from tlii'ce to five grains evei-y three or four hours, guarded l:iy four or five drop.« of laudanum in each dose, or accompanied by two oi' three grains of Dover's powder. If there is no disorder of the stomach the emetic of ipecacuanha may lie oinitled at the commencement of the treatment, and castor oil 1)0 sul)stiluted for the calomel. When the pei'iodical cliaraclcr of the disease has disa])))eared, the dysenteric symptoms, if any continue, should be managed in the manner already laid liown, and in accordance with the grade and type which they I lien present. Trealment of Chronic i)y/.svi//'r/-?/.~A))]iro])riate diet :ind regi- men are essential to, and oi'-ai sufficient for, tlie cuit (,r this 5iffection, provided that peiiiiaiient organic alterations >f the40 colon or rectum have not been established. Henee the urgent necessity of withholding from tlie patient liis ordinary food when this is coarse and too abundant, and from his usual occu- pations when they involve undue fatigue or exposure. The most useful form of diet is milk, with bread or other mild farinaceouB preparations, especially rice, and a gradual and cautious return to solid food, consisting of mutton, beef, or poultry, in very small quantities at a time. Many cases are cured by lime water and boiled milk, in equal parts, with tlie addition of biscuit, if tender, or softened by hot water and slightly salted if it is hard and stale. Both bread and biscuit, if toasted, are thereby ren- dered more agreeable to the taste and more digestible. Soups are generally ineligible, for they are apt to occasion flatus, griping, and an increased frequency of the discharges. It is of the utmost importance tliat the drinking water should be of good quality. If it contain any appreciable amount of vege- table or mineral matter, it should be purified by boiling. While moderate exercise in fair weatlier promotes the cure, fatigue itt to be avoided, and suitable clotliing, especially a flannel shirt, should be prescribed as essential. In warm weather sea bath- ing, if not unduly prolonged, is of decided service. The medicinal treatment of clironic dysentery demands great circumspection and judgment, to adopt it to the peculiarities of each particular case. If the irritability of the bowels is very great, indicating, probably, a certain degree of inflammatory action, warm fomentations of tlic abdomen, opium in small doses, and nitrate of silver or acetate of lead, siiould be em- ployed. Tlic dejections onglit to be frequently inspected, and if found to contain scybala, half an ounce of castor-oil, or ten or fifteen grains of rhubarb, eitlier alone, or with about five grains of bhic mass, should be prescribed. In more atonic forms, iiitiutc of silver and acetate of lead are still the most useful remedies of their class, and next to them sulphate of41 copper ranks : Imi willi all, (ho associa I ion of a small propor- tion of opium is advisable. Among- romodies of this kind, balsam of copaiva is one of the most valuable. In these, as well as in (he preceding- form of chronic dysentei-y, blisters to the abdomen may 1)0 resorted to -with decided advantage, pro- vided the strenglh of the patient is not very greatly reduced: but they should iiol- remain applied long enough to produce a suppurating surface. If the appetite is feeble, and digestion imperfectly performed, (he bitter vegetable tonics arc indicated, as cinchona, coloniba, simaruba, and angustura, the last two of which are reputed to have a specific virtue in dysentery. Angustura is even lield to possess peculiar advantages in the low forms of the acute disease. It is important that the decoc- tion or infusion of these lutters should not be unduly strong. Finally, when anemia complicates the disorder of the bowel, and bitter vegetable preparations fail to invigorate digestion, iron should be prescribed, and pai'ticularly the pre])arations which possess a marked astringency, as the muriated tincture, the persesquinitrate, and the |)erc!iloride. These remedies may be appropriately alternated with the vegetable bitters. If the local irritation about the rectum continues, so as to occasion tenesmus, it may be palliated by leeches around the margin of the anus, by (,he application of warm narcotic va- pors, or warm liii)-baths; by injections or suppositories of opium or belladonna, or by the injection of a .solution of nitrate of silver, containing from om; to live grains of the salt, to an ounce of water. On the other hand, if a relaxed atonic condition of the anus exists, it should l)e treated with cold hip-baths and cold astringent injections, particularly such of the latter as contain the acetate or suljacctatc of lead. The tincture of nux vomica or strychnia, may be administered internally, the former in the dose of five drops, gradually augmented, and the latter, in the 3*42 dose of one-l,woii(Iet]i of a grain, cautiously iiicroasod. .Strycd- Ilia lias also been iiiociilatctl in tlic neiglil)orlioo(i of the anus^ when the sphincter has lost its power, and there is more or less prolapse of tlie rectum. Op the piiEVRyTiox OF DvsEXTKRY IN" Campr, <tc.—Thi» subject may be considered, 1, in relation to the means to be employed for [)reveDting the o(!ciirrence of the disease; and 2, in relation to those which are adapted to lessen its malignity, and oppose its extension, where it has already broken out. The ample insti'uctioiis furnished )iy the publications of this Com- "mission in regard to the sanitary regulations of camps and hos- pitals, render it unnecessary to lengthen the present paper by any details upon either branch of the subject. It will be suffi- cient to remark that dysentery is most efficiently prevented by dryness and purity of the air; the absence of malarious and putrescent effluvia ; warm clothing ; llic avoidance of the hot raid-day sun, and of chill by night air, or sleeping on the damp ground; by active exercise, to promote warmth, rather than by trusting to artificial heat, and therefore ))y games and sports, as well as by fre([ueat drill; by camp fires, to dry the clothing in damp weather, and by stoves, to dry the tenls, rather than to heat them. In sninmer, the men should be obliged to bathe frequently, and at all times to observe the most perfect ])ersoiiaI cleanliness. The food should always be composed of a large proportion of fresh vegetable matter, and the utmost care taken to rciuler it both palatable and digestible, by apprt)priate cooking, an art the most neglected and rudimentary among us, even in civil life, and in times of peace and plenty. If the drinking water is not pure, it should, as already remarked, be boiled before being used ; and this ])recaution ttgainst the mischievous cflecty of vegetable and mineral impurities, is of the iirst necessity in43 the treatment of tlic sick. AIcoliolic drinks slioiild hq used nparingly ; iiileni|)eriuice is the dircet road to the hospilal. If dysentery huve already lii'okeii out, the essemial conditions for staying- its progress is a removal to a healthier h:)cality ; i!' this cannot l)e done, then tlie most important element oC cure is frcsli air. So essential is il, that cold is of secondary consc- ([uence in conii)arison. All o!>soi'v:ition teaches that the sick with tliis disease, and with lyphus, and some other alTeetions, arc much more apt to recover in tenis, or othei' impcrfectiv closed haljitations, than in Avell Imill hos|)irals. In the latter, hut in- deed cvei-ywherc. the utmost care sliouUl he given to prevent other persons from using as a [irivy the |)lace IVc([iiciited bv dysenteric patients. The fecal matter should either he removccj at oucc, or its emanations prevented by the addition to it of (luicklime. ALFRED STILLE. M. f)., Ch'n., FRANCIS (I. SSriTH. M. D.. JOHN \WAA.. .M. D., JOHN F. MFK^S, M. [)., SAiMUKL LKWIS, M. I). fuiI.ADKl.l'lllA. /■'('(').. ISCi^.M. SANITARY COMMISSIC1 8 6 2. SANITARY COMMISSION. ( N. ) REPORT OP A COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATE MEDICAL MEMBERS OF THE SANITARY COMMISSION ON THE SUBJECT OF SCURVY WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO PRACTICE IN THE ARMY AND NAVY. WASHINGTON: GOYERNMEKT PRINTING OFFICE....VON SCURVY. Scurvy is a disease which, from whatever point it is regarded, cannot fail to attract the attention of the thought- ful military surgeon. Formerly its victims in armies and navies were to be counted by thousands annually, and if at the present time its ravages are not so extensive as a few years since, the fact that it is still not infrequently met with shows that either we are not cognizant of all its causes or that we ignorantiy or wilfully allow those circumstances to exist by which it inevitably will be induced. The subject is one also which ought, in many of its con- nections, to receive the earnest consideration of every military commander who has the good of his troops at heart. It lies Avith him to carry out those hygienic measures which his medical staff may recommend, and he ought to know that the occurrence of one single case of this disease in his command shows the existence of causes Avhich will surely give rise to it in others, and in a short time render his force miserable, inefficient, and a burden to the public it was intended to serve. Scurvy is preeminently a preventable disease, and its existence in an army is 'prima facie evidence that the medical or military authorities have been neglectful of their duties. It would be manifestly out of place in an essay of the purely practical character of this to enter at length into the history of the disease under consideration. It would appear.r 4 however, that it was not altogether unknown to the ancients, and that it was cured, as at present, by the use of fresh vegetable food. Modern armies and navies from the year 1260, when it attacked the army of Louis IX in Egypt, have never been free from it the entire twelve months. During the seven- teenth and eighteenth centuries, when so many naval expe- ditions of warfare and discovery were fitted out, whole crews were destroyed by it, and in the course of the same periods it more than decimated the armies of several European nations. In more recent times, and notwithstanding the great advance which has been made in the knowledge of pre- venting and curing scurvy, it has not failed to take its victims by large numbers. Not to refer to other instances, it may be stated that our own armies have suffered greatly through its ravages. On one occasion, at Council Bluffs, in 1820, nearly the entire garrison was attacked, and many died. In Florida and in Mexico the efficiency of our forces was very materially lessened by its occurrence, and in Texas, New Mexico, and other frontier districts, cases of it have existed every year. In 1850 and 1851, it was very prevalent in New Mexico, and was in many instances extremely severe in its character. The numerous emigrants to the west have been attacked with scurvy to a great extent. In 1848 and 1849 several overland parties en route to California and Oregon were almost destroyed by it, and in 1855 and 1856 the writer witnessed many cases among the settlers in Kansas. In the Crimea, the English and French armies were afflicted with scurvy to an extent almost inconceivable at the present day. "We shall have occasion hereafter to again5 advert to this circumstance. Let us take care that our own large army is kept free from this scourge Symptoms.—The sj'mptoms of scurvy arc generally suffi- ciently apparent to be recognised by the careful physician. The swollen and discolored gums, bleeding upon the slight- est touch, the leaden hue of the features, the peculiarly oifensive breath, the appearance of patches of extravasated blood, first upon the legs, but subsequently upon other parts of the body, the hardness and permanent state of contrac- tion of the muscles, the stiffness of the joints, the re- opening of old ulcers and cicatrices, the re-solution of united fractures, the general oedema of the body, the diarrhoea and dysentery, and heemorrhage from the mucous passages generally, the extreme mental depression and indisposition to any kind of exertion, are all often met with in one individual, and then present a picture which can scarcely lead to an error in diagnosis. There are cases, however, which cannot be so readily detected, because few of the prominent S3-mptoms above mentioned are present. In such instances the existence of scurvy can generally be inferred with certainty from the existence of peculiar cir- cumstances to wliich we shall hereafter direct attention. The description of scurvy given by *Larrey is so graphic and truthful that we may be pardoned for reproducing it here. Speaking of the scurvy, as it appeared in the army of Egypt, he says : "I have almost invariably remarked three different degrees in this scorbutic disease as in that which I had occasion to observe during my campaign in North America. "In the first the soldier is distressed and prone to melan- choly; he prefers the sitting or recumbent posture: he is «Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire et Campagncs, Toms II, Paris, 1SI2, p. 272.6 not disposed to be moved by those tilings which ordinarily excite- his mind; the approach of the enemy, the various incidents of the camp, make no impression on him; he loses his appetite, sleep is painful, and is interrupted by disagree- able dreams; the countenance becomes pale, the eyes have^ a melancholy expression, and are surrounded by bluish circles; the gums are painful, pale, and bleed easily on the slightest pressure; heavy pains are felt in the lumbar region and in the limbs, especially the legs; respiration is difficult and the pulse is slow and irregular; the cutaneous trans- piration is arrested and the skin becomes dry and rough, like that of a plucked fowl; the bowels become constipated; the urine is secreted in small quantity, and is loaded with earthy matters; the cutaneous veins are swollen, especially those of the groin ; the patient experiences a feeling of lassitude in all his limbs, and walks with great difficulty. "Wounds quickly change their character; suppuration diminishes and becomes sanguinollent; the lips of the wound are discolored; the granulations are feeble; they are bluish, painful, and bleed on the least touch. Cicatrices assume a peculiar appearance; they become discolored, ulcerate, and are liable to mortification. This first stage indicates the loss of tone, general debility, and a diminution of the vital principle. "In the second stage, the s}Tiiptoms become more intense ; the feeling of prostration augments ; the pains become more violent and are located especially in the head and kidneys ; the patient falls into a state of stupor ; he remains almost immovable in bed; his limbs are flexed and his whole body curved ; his countenance and lips are livid; the white of the eyes changes to a leaden color; the breath becomes fetid, the gums ulcerated, and the teeth covered7 with black tartar. The respiration is now difficult and is accompanied with oppression and constriction of the chest; the cellular tissue of the legs becomes engorged, especially that which is interposed between the tendo achillis and the tibia, and the swelling extends very soon to the rest of the limbs. This engorgement has more hardness than simple oedema, the impression of tlie finger not remaining so long as in the latter case. Pressure causes pain; black spots are perceived over the malleoli and along the course of the tibia; they also appear about the same time on the face and on the shoulders. The constipation increases; the abdomen becomes tumefied; the patient experiences a very strong feel- ing of heat in the precordial region and a dull heavy pain about the hypochondria. The pulse is accelerated ; an accession of fever occurs towards evening ; wakefulness— during which state the pains are aggravated—is very dis- tressing to the patient. The gangrenous condition which is manifested in the wounds or cicatrices progresses. Hasmorrhage becomes more frequent; the blood is black, very liquid, and coagulates with difficulty. The callus of fractures softens ; the fragments become disunited and a kind of caries attacks the broken extremities which become denuded of periosteum and sometimes enormously swollen. "In this second stage, nature, endeavoring to conquer the obstacles which impede the exercise of the functions, redoubles her energy, and in order to reestablish the equilibrium seeks to resume the forces she has lost; but it is ordinarily in vain, and an increased degree of asthenia very soon succeeds these reactions, '' The last stage of scurvy presents a most afflicting aspect. To the febrile paroxysms and the other symptoms I have de- scribed succeeds a general depression. The swelling of the8 feet and legs sensibly increases, and they become covered with black spots which, by their rapid communication with each other, give a character of sphacelus to the whole member. '' I return to the other symptoms of this stage of scurvy. The tongue is covered with a viscous and brownish-colored coating; the ulceration of the gums extends deeply towards the alveoli and interior of the mouth, attacking the veil of the palate and even the palatine arch. The teeth become loosened, and their loss is often accompanied with hajm- orrhage difficult to be arrested. The eyes have a pleading expression, and the eyelids are swollen and puffy; a cold sweat of a nauseous odor appears over the whole body but chiefly over the abdomen and extremities. It is this which gives so shining an appearance to the skin. The sphincters of the anus become relaxed and diarrhoea which often de- generates into a dysenteric iind colliquative flux becomes established. The urine is passed with difficulty on account of the paralysis of the bladder which ensues. The catheter must then be frequently passed or even left in the bladder permanently. The difficulty of breathing and oppression become extreme, and severe fits of coughing often cause the viscid mucus expectorated to be tinged with blood of a black color and fetid odor. The pulse becomes weaker, wiry, and disappears insensibly. The forces of the indi- vidual are entirely extinguished and he has frequent attacks of syncope. The black spots which were at first simply ecchymoses assume the character of a true gangrene which destroys the organ it attacks. Dropsy appears, the vital functions cease, and the patient slowly but surely expires." But, as we have already said, it is not to be supposed that9 scurvy is always thus clearly manifested. Cases are fre- quently met with in which another disease seems to be present, but which is only a symptom of the scorbutic dis- order. Or the scurvy may be so overshadowed by a coex- istent affection as to render its presence more a matter of inference than of actual proof. AVe propose to devote a short space .to the consideration of these complications. Scurvy is frequently met with associated with dysentery and typhus and typhoid fevers. Wc have had many examples of these combinations under our charge. Dr. Tholozan, in a paper read before the French Academy of Medicine, thus alludes to them : ■" Dysenter}', scorbutus, and typhus, sucli as we know them by classical description, consist of groups of morbid phenomena perfectly distinct from each other. When these affections are met with singly in an uncomplicated state, it is easy to recognise them, and no observer will be deceived by them. But when the diseases are mingled one v\-ith the other, or, as sometimes happens, when all three are conjoined, forming, as has been so often observed in armies, compound diseases of mixed character of special types, the pathologi- cal problem becomes complicated. Dysentery presents the characteristics of scorbutus, scorbutus is attended with delirium, as is typhus, or rather dysenteric fluxes carry ofl the patient, and those affected with typhus, have dysentery and become scorbutic. Examples of these mixtures are not rare, for almost all serious cases are thus complicated. Such at least Avas my experience during the wintei' of 1854- 55, at Constantinople." "Pincoffs also points out the frequency with which scurvy was conjoined with other diseases during the Crimean war. He says : "Experiences of a civilian in eastern military hospitals, &o.10 "Typlius was at that time [the winter of 1854- 55,] raging fiercely, and I am convinced that if not its main cause, certainly the cause of its great mortality was the scurvy. Of twenty patients admitted during that period eighteen Averc usually more or less scorbutic; eight perhaps would be so deeply affected (as indicated by sloughing ulcers, gangrene of the mouth, general dropsy, and chronic diarrhosa) as to render recovery impossible." He also gives it as his opinion that of the 23,587 cases of diseases of the stomach and bowels, 10,970 cases of fevers, and 2,023 of frost-bites, which occurred, the great majority were scorbutic. ■"Macleod also refers to the fact, that among the troops serving in the Crimea, scurvy was not usually discernible by the ordinary signs, by reason of its being so frequently masked behind some other ailment. In the official reports made to the British government by the medical officers, the same facts are asserted. Thus it is said : t "From the details now submitted, it will be feadily understood that scurvy Avas an affection of some importance at one period in the army. It is to be observed, however, that the returns convey but a faint conception of the disas- trous part Avhich it acted among the troops; for although it was only in comparatively rare instances that it presented itself in well defined forms, and as an independent affection, yet the prevalence of scorbutic taint was wide-spread, and in _ a vast proportion of cases, evident indications of it existed as a complication of other diseases, fever and affec- « Notes on tlie Surgery of the War ia the Crimea. Loudon: 1868, p. 69. I Medical aud Surgical History of the British Army wliich served in Turkey and the Crimea, &c., vol. 2, p. 171.11 tions of the bowels. Indeed, it may be stated, that during the first six mouths of the siege, all morbid actions in the older residents were more or loss distinctly marked by scorbutic symptoms; and the fact is constantly commented upon by medical officers. Thus, Dr. Marlow, 28th regiment, remarks : ' although there are apparently few cases of pure scurvy marked in the return, nearly every admission into hospital exhibited unequivocal signs of the scorbutic- taint.' " To return to the French authorities, we find that Bau- dens* also points out that, '' scorbutus prevailed under an epidemic form and was rarely witnessed without being- complicated with diarrhoea, intermittent and remittent fever, bronchitis, pneumonia, &c. Tliese complications Avere the most direct causes of the mortality which scurvy pro- duced." Scrivet states that "at the end of February more than three thousand cases of scurvy in which the disease Avas well marked existed. Some patients had only scurvy; in others it was associated with diarrhoea, dysentery, and typhus or typhoid affections, above all Avith frost-bites, to which it greatly increased the liability. These combinations were all-powerful; the sick were unable to resist them, and succumbed to SAvell the daily-augmenting record of our mortftlity," During the service of the Avriter in New Mexico and Kansas, many cases of scurvy were Avitnessed Avhich Avere more or less marked by some more prominent afi'ection. Diarrhoea, and dysentery, were frequent complications, and were often the only evidences of a scorbutic taint, except " La Guerre Crimce, &c. Paris, 1858, p. 219. fEelation Medico Chirurgicale de la Campagne d'Orient. Paris, 1857, p. 389..12 sometimes the presence of very small ecchymoses on the legs scarcely distinguishable from flea-bites. These latter were not always to be detected, and yet there could be no doubt in regard to the scorbutic character of the disease, for it alwa3's readily yielded to anti-scorbutic treatment, and as obstinately resisted that directed against the obvious characteristics. But perhaps the most common symptom of scurvy, liable to lead to an erroneous diagnosis which the writer has witnessed, was one similating what ordinarily passes under the name of chronic rheumatism. This consisted of very severe pains in the muscles of the legs and back, increasing in severity towards evening. The appearance of the skin was not in the least altered for some time, neither was there any particular tenderness of the gums. The muscles were not permanently conti-acted nor abnormally hard- The progress of the disease was in many of these cases arrested at this point by appropriate treatment, but in others it passed on to Avell-developed scurvy. There is,, we think, but little doubt that many of the cases designated in the medical reports as chronic rheumatism are in reality of a scorbutic nature. In the olBcial work* from which we have already quoted, mention is thus made in regard to the point in question : "One of the most constant precursory symptoms of scurvy was an obscure form of muscular rheumatism. The individual complained of pains in his legs of an aching character, and his movements were tedious and painful; there was in these cases no articular inflammation observed, and though the feet and legs were generally oedematous, there was little enlargement of the ankle joints ; the afl'ec- « Medical ancT Surgical History of the British Army, &c., &c., p. 175.13 tion has probably been in some- instances mistaken for rheumatism and perhaps treated in the ordinary manner, but it was merely one of the signs of general cachexia, and advantageously treated by a return to the comforts of ordinary life. Hemeralopia and nyctalopia, which are not infrequently met with among soldiers and sailors, are undoubtedly often due to a scorbutic taint. Dr. Coale,* U. S. Navy, noticed several cases of the latter in the scurvy which occurred on 1)oard the frigate Columbia in 1838-'39 and '40. Dr. Foltzf witnessed several cases of both these singular affections as accompaniments to the scurv}^, which attacked the crew of the United States frigate Raritan in 1846. In the Crimean Avar hemeralopia, though not adverted to in the ofhcial reports from which we have already quoted, was, according to Macleod, | a common attendant on scurv}'' as it appeared among the British troops. The writer has seen but two cases of either affection which were of undoubted scorbutic character. Both of these were hemeralopia or day blindness, and occurred in New Mexico. The blindness Avas almost complete on bright clear days. As evening approached the patients began to see with more distinctness, and at dusk possessed nearly the natural poAvers of A^ision. We must not forget to allude to the influence of the scorbutic diathesis in modifying the character of Avounds, in causing gangrene, in the production of bed-sores, in preventing the reunion of fractured bones, &c., Ave cannot, however, do more than simply call attention to these com- plications. oAmericau Journal of the Medical Sciences, vol. Ill, p. G8. t American Journal of tlie Medical Sciences, vol. XV, p. 38. tOp. Cit. p. 71.* ) I 14 Wc have pointed out,' at some length, associations of •scurvy with other disorders, because we are satisfied from much observation that a powerful cause of these diseases, the scorbutic condition of the system is frequently over- looked, both in diagnosis and treatment. The military medical officer cannot be too circumspect in his examination •of patients Avho are subje^cted to conditions favorable to the development of scurvy. He will frequently find, by careful observation, that his numerous cases of typhoid fever, diarrhcea, dysentery, rheumatism, frost-bites, &c., are' in great part due to that depraved state of the blood which is the essential characteristic of scurvy, even though many prominent symptoms of the latter disease be absent, and he will find that by enforcing' proper sanitary and medicinal treatment, the diseases which have resisted all his routine measures will be driven out, or, what is infinitely better, entirely prevented. Pathology.—It would not comport with the purely prac- tical character of this memoir to dwell to any extent upon the pathology of scurvy. In order, however, to inculcate a clear idea of the prophylaxis and treatment it ^vill be necessary to bring some of the more prominent points of this portion of the subject before the reader. We naturally look in the first place to the state of the blood, and we find a ver}'^ decided change from the normal condition of this fluid. We shall give an abstract only of our own researches on this point. •» 1st. The amount of ivater is increased and the total amount of solid matter diminished. 2d. The jihrin is augmented in quantity. 3d. There is a decided diminuation in the amount of Uoocb corpuscles. t15 4th. The albumen is also dimuiished in quantity. 5th. The amount of inorganic constituents is very niateriall}' lessened, principally through the diminution in the quantity of 2^otc(sh, lime^ and iron normally present in the l^lood. These are the chief alterations Avhich (as several analyses of the blood have enabled- us to ascertain) attend the pres- ence of scurvy. It is scarcely reasonable to hold the opinion that any one of these alterations in the normal character of the blood is the immediate cause of the scorbutic diathesis. Garrod be- lieves that a deficiency of potash in the system is the cause of scurvy. We confess to having once held a similar opin- ion, but more extensive observation has satisfied us of its incorrectness. The fact, that under the influence of i)otash scurvy disappears, is no valid argument in support of the theory in question, for, as we have ascertained, iron also effects a cure and with as much rapidity as potash. No doubt the deficiency of potash is an important point in the pathology of the disease, but it is to all the alterations in the normal constitution of the blood that we are to look for the immediate cause of the scorbutic diathesis. We have seen that it is more than probable the immediate or essential cause of scruvy is a morbid alteration in the constitution of the blood. We come, in the next place, to consider the predisposing or exciting cause. It was formerly held that the long-continued use of salt food was the chief cause of the development of scurvy. There was apparently just ground for this opinion, for the disease was observed chiefly among those Avho for long periods were subjected to this kind of diet. It is now, however, very well established that the use of salt food alone will not ordinarily excite the disease. Along with16 the restriction to this species of nutriment we have various other coexisting circumstances which have fully as much if not more power in giving rise to the scorbutic diathesis. The causes of scurvy may very properly be considered under three heads. The jj/i2/sicaZ, the moral, and the dietic. Physical causes.—Darhiess and cold are important agents in causing scurvy. Arctic voyagers have had abundant opportunity for noticing their influence. During the arctic winter it has been unifoi'mly the case that scurvy prevailed more extensively than during the summer, although there was no difference in the character of the food. Dr. I. 1. Hayes has informed the writer that there can be no doubt on this point. Of themselves, however, they are not suffi- cient, for during the recent voyage of this eminent traveller and discoverer, scurvy was entirely prevented by the excel- lent hygienic measures he adopted, and to which we shall soon have occasion to allude. Moisture is also a powerful cause of scurvy. This was very evident in the Crimea, where the men of the allied army were exposed in the trenches and even in their tents and huts to an excessive amount of moisture for a long period. Iminife air is another influential physical cause of scurvy. Dr. Hayes ascribes his immunity from scurvy chiefly to the excellent system of ventilation he adopted. In the United States Navy it has frequently been noticed that scurvy was much more violent in those ships in which little attention was given to renewing the atmosphere, than in those where good ventilation was insisted upon. We have several times had occasion to notice the appearance of this disease among troops crowded into small barracks, whilst those who had plenty of room escaped, though the other conditions were17 the same. In New Mexico, soldiers were often packed at night in two or three tiers of beds, with two in a bed. There can be no doubt as to the state of the atmosphere by morning, and its influence in causing scurvy was well marked. It often happens that the physical conditions we have mentioned occur together. Dr. Opitz,* in an excellent mono- graph, shows that cold, humidity, and bad air Avere the chief if not the only causes of the epidemic of scurvy which attacked the Austrian garrison at Ranstatt in 1852. Out of 4,300 men, 610 had scurvy. The unfavorable state of the atmosphere, moisture combined with cold, and the oppres- sive and miasmatic character of the air in the over-crowded locality of the barracks, are the causes to which Opitz mainly ascribes the epidemic. Insufficient exercise on the one hand and excessive physical exertion on the other, are among the exciting causes of scurvy. The influence of the former has been perceived among the arctic explorers, and the over-worked soldiers of the allied army afforded marked examples of the power of the latter cause. The moral causes of scurvy, though perhaps not so apparent in their influence as those we have mentioned, are, never- theless, of very considerable importance. Nostalgia is a common exciting cause of scurvy. To this, and the despondency of mind which attends it, the attacks of scurvy which have proved so fatal to arctic adventurers owe much of their violence. So well is mentcd depression recog- nised as a cause of the disease in question, that arctic navi- gators have taken every means in their power to guard against it. » TJeber Skorbut: VierteljahrschrHt fiir die praktisclie Heil Kunde, Bund C9, 1861, p. 108. 218 We are convinced that many cases of scurvy occurring among ovei'land emigrants to Oregon and California are due to despondency and anxiety. During periods of weary in- action, or the depression of mind produced by disaster and defeat, scurvy has always been more persistent and violent in armies and fleets. Dietetic causes.—Undoubtedly the most efficient agents in the causation of scurvy are those arising from the long-con- tinued use of food deficient in these substances which the organism requires for its perfect nutrition, or else of too unvarying a character. For a long time it was supposed that scurvy was due to the continued ingestion of salt meat. It is doubtful, how- ever, that such is the case. It is not so much the use of salt food as it is the deprivation of succulent vegetable food, which induces scurvy. Dr. Hayes has, however, recentlv informed the writer that he thinks the immunity of his com- mand from scurvy was, in great part, due to the fact that the men had such an abundance of fresh reindeer meat that they did not have to resort at all to the salt provisions. There are, nevertheless, many examples on record of scurvy appearing when fresh meat has formed the staple article of diet, and we have ourselves witnessed many cases of the disease among troops who had fresh meat four days out of the seven as a part of their ration, and who had it the other three from game which they procured for themselves. It must not be forgotten, also, that Dr. Hayes had an abund- ance of anti-scorbutics, of which the men had an ample allowance, and that he employed every other means to pre- vent the disease. The deprivation of fresh vegetable food is undoubtedly a powerful cause of scurvy. It is very rare that this disease19 makes its appearance where an abundance of sucli food can be obtained. It is not, however, to be inferred that scurvy does not occasionally appear among people who cat a great deal of fresh vegetable food. In such cases the moral and physical causes we have mentioned are so strong as to over- come every resistance. Dr. PincoflFs, in the work from which we have quoted, says-that '''Turks who eat but little meat and a great deal of fruit suffered greatly with scurvy. Dr. Leudersdoff, who had charge of a Turkish hospital during the Crimean war, had sixty, of his beds filled witli scorbutic cases, and the same, he says, was the case with all the hos- pitals, large and small, at Eupatoria. There are many examples on record of the disease appearing when fresh vegetables were supplied in abundance." Perhaps a more influential cause than a salt-meat diet or the mere deprivation of fresh vegetable food, is found in the sameness of diet to which soldiers and sailors are so frequently subjected. The following extract from a work* we have already quoted from, places the whole subject of food as a cause of scurvy in its true position : "It has hitherto been too constantl}^ supposed, at least by the community in general, that scurvy is mainly, if not altogether, to be attributed to the use of salt provisions, and that it is little to be apprehended unless these form a large proportion of the daily food ; but the fact is, para- doxical as it may appear, that it would be extremely diffi- cult to prove that scurvy has any other closer connection with the use of salt meat than of fresh meat, for the disease is observed not alone Avhen salt provisions constitute the * Medical and Surgical History of the British Army, wliicli served iu Turlcey and the Crimea, &c., vol. II, p. 179.20 food, but when the diet is composed exclusively of fresh provisions. Thus, after the campaign of 1848- 49, (which terminated in the annexation of the Punjaub,) the agricul- tural operations of a portion of that province were for a season' interrupted, and the troops, which were placed in occupation, suffered accordingly from the want of fresh vegetables. They were, nevertheless, supplied with abun- dance of fresh meat and bread of excellent quality, and yet, in the 24th regiment, the annual return recorded the occur- rence of several cases of scurvy. The disease also showed itself in other corps to such a degree, that it' was found necessary to send to a great distance, and at considerable expense, for supplies of potatoes. The principal medical officer, pending their arrival in sufficient abundance, recom- mending them to be used as a salad, dressed \^■ith vinegar, in order to procure their full curative effects. '' Again, for some years after the different stations for troops were formed in the Himalaya mountains, fresh vege- tables, from the position of these stations, were not procur- able in sufficient quantity, while at a subsequent date the supplies were interrupted by the breaking out of the Sutlej war; but though the soldier was provided with good fresh meat and bread, yet scurvy was not only present but attended with its full share of mortality, both among men and women; and it became necessary to relieve corps at short intervals, after they had, in some degree, recovered from the relaxation of long-continued residence in the liot climate of the plains, and before they had too deeply acquired the scorbutic taint in the hills. In this instance the direct causes of dysentery were present—dense fogs, periodic rains, cold winds, and elevated locality; and scurvy appeared in association with dysentery; and it was21 here that the term scorbutic dysentery was first recognised, ■we belieA^e, in a general sense, as one of proper application, "Sir John Hall, speaking of the causes of scurvy, observes 'much stress has been laid on the use of salt meat in producing scurvy; ray own opinion is, that other agencies were in operation to induce the depression of the vital powers, and generate the cachectic condition which the men fell into ; for I have seen as much scurvy at the Cape, in the campaign of 1846-47, as occurred in the Crimea ; and at the Cape no salt meat was consumed by a man in the field. Fatigue, wet, cold, and exposure, with sameness of diet,' he adds, 'will produce scurv}'- without salt meat. At the Cape, rice was an integral portion of the men's rations during the whole campaign; and if this article had been issued in December and January, 1854- 55, in the Crimea, the results Avould have been nearlv the same.' "Dr. Crawford refering to the appearance of scurvy in the 18th regiment during the last winter in the Crimea, offers the following remarks in illustration of the causes of scurvy, and the nature of their action : "'When men are placed for any length of time on a particular diet, without the opportunity of augmenting it b}^ the addition of articles which instinct teaches them to seek out, a nice adjustment of the proportion which the various nutritious principles should be as to each other, and to the circumstances in which the individuals so dieted are placed, is essential to health. The substitution of one class of nutritious elements for another, or the absence of a due proportion of either, will soon show itself. An instance of this sort occurred during the second Burmese war. A detachment of Europeans stationed at Meanday,22 were dieted for several inoutlhs on fre.sli beef, in unlimited quantities, biscuit, with the usual allowance of riim and rice, but they Avere not supplied with fresh vegetables, or any substitute for them. At first the men looked robust and healthy, but after the lapse of three months, scurvy made its appearance ; spongy gums, purple blotches on the extremities, hemorrhagic dysentery and profuse discharges of blood from the stomach and bowels, (during the hot stage of intermittent fevers then prevalent,) marked the outset of the disease. Lime-juice was procured and issued freely, and the scurvy rapidly abated. Lime-juice or the salts rich in potass,' he continues, 'will generally check scurvy under such circumstances; and', 'he adds, it is scarcely necessary to remark that the nitrogenous or albuminous elements were superabundant in this case.' " The report then goes on to state : "As military experience has thus shown that scurvy under certain circumstances attends upon the use of exclu- sively fresh provisions, it must be conceded that salt food has no peculiar, or, at least, exclusive connection Avith the disease ; and that if the affection has more often accom- panied its use, it is only because there is some cooperating agency frequently associated with the consumption of salt food which can have no place Avhen fresh provisions con- stitute the diet, except under very unusual or artificial conditions of life. This agency is no other than want of variety of food — sameness in diet; and if we may consider the effect of it acting in connection Avith the use of fresh food, under unusual conditions of life, to be illustrated by the facts above mentioned, its consequences under artificial conditions of life, the work of our OAvn creation, have per- haps been abundantly testified in the history of our jails,23 workhouses, and, it may be, also, to some extent, of our schools and factories. "The want of variety in food constitutes the true cause of scurvy; but the diversity essential to its prevention or cure does not consist simply in the use of animal and vegetable food, but of animal food, with vegetable food of varied properties. We have already seen that scurvy, and its associated affections, may appear under the exclusive use of fresh meat and bread, but we arc not aware that the disease has ever been observed when the diet Avas composed of meat and of vegetables of various kinds in due proportion." But we are satisfied that neither the physical, the moral, nor the dietetic causes of scurvy are of themselves alone sufficient to produce the disease. It is only when all three are conjoined that scurvy makes its appearance. Perhaps the most influential cause is the want of variation in the diet, so strongly insisted upon in the foregoing extracts; but this of itself will not give rise to scurvy, otherwise we should see the Indians of our western prairies con- stantly afflicted with it. and the Esquimaux would never be free from the scorbutic diathesis. When w-e have insuf- ficient food conjoined with mental depression and exposure to wet and cold, we have scurvy, and not otherwise. It is extremely important not to forget this fact. It is too much the custom in the army to lay all the stress upon faulty diet, and to entirely ignore the physical and moral causes of scurvy. The medical officer should therefore be on his guard against all these influences. He can do much to counteract their power. Prevention of scurvy.—When we know the causes of a disease we can do much towards preventing it. When24 scurvy occurs, some one is to blame: fur its causes are altogether under our control. As the causes of scurvy are physical, moral, and dietetic, our measures of prevention come under the same heads. Physical means of prevention.—First among them is the adoption of measures to secure a due allowance of pure air. This can readily be done in barracks by giving to each soldier at least six hundred cubic feet of space, and opening the window (where other means of ventilation are not provided) so as to allow of the free admission of the external air and the exit of that which has become impure. Soldiers, like civilians, have too great a hori'or of a draft of air, and positive orders and constant watching will be necessary to make them attend to this point. In camp, the tents should not be placed too close together; should not be overcrowded, and should be struck every clear day, and the bedding, &c., thoroughly aired. At least once a week the tents should be moved a few feet so as to cover fresh ground. In addition, a thorough state of police should be kept up. In one camp which the writer has recently visited as inspecting officer, the filth Mdiich had accumulated for six weeks was shoveled into the middle of the streets so as to form high ridges, and then left to decompose. Could any- thing be more disgusting? Exposure to cold and wet cannot always in a military life be avoided ; much may be done, however, by warm and impervious clothing to lessen their influence. Moderate bodily exercise should always be insisted on. It is one of the best preventives of scurvy. Armstrong* states that the men of the Investigator were required to Observations on Naval Hygiene and Scurvy.25 take iive hours' exercise every day. Dr. Hayes, also, always made a point of insisting on a due amount of exercise being taken by each man of liis command. We believe that to this action, and the thorough means he took to pro- vide for ventilation, are in the main to be ascribed the freedom of his party from scurvy. Immoderate bodily exertion, Avhen required on the part of the soldiers by military necessit}^, must, of course, be sub- mitted to. But there are times when it can be avoided. A good commander will never unnecessarily fatigue his men. Drills, or fatigue duty, before breakfast can almost always be deprived of their bad effects by serving out hot coffee to the men. Moral means of prevention.—Much may be done to induce cheerfulness in an army. Games of various kinds, espe- cially such as require exercise in the open air, should be encouraged. Sir Edward Parry, it is said, prevented scurvy in his command by using every means in his power to cause cheerful feeling to predominate. Books of a light character are useful agents towards this end. Theatres should like- wise be encouraged. The regimental bands, however, are the most important means for conducing to cheerfulness in a command. Their usefulness in this respect cannot be overestimated, and it is to be hoped they will not be abol- ished. We have never seen an intelligent soldier who did not take pleasure in the music the bands afforded. Dietetic means of j^revention.—These means have always been held in high repute. When properly used they may be said to be infallible. For a great many years lime-juice has been regarded as the most valuable agent we possess for preventing scurvy. Since its use by the Dutch, m the early part of the sixteenth century, it has not lost in the26 estimation of the civilized world, and for many years has formed a component part of the ration of seamen so situ- ated as to be liable to scurvy. In the English navy, lime- juice is issued when the men have been for fourteen days on salt-meat diet. By this one article scurvy has been almost eradicated from modern navies. Citric acid is not a substi- tute, it being almost entirely inert as we have found by experience. It can scarcely be said that pure vegetable acids are anti- scorbutics. Vinegar cannot, therefore, be elevated to this rank. The lime-juice doubtless owes its valuable properties to the fact that it contains supercitrate of potassa. We have already alluded to the efficacy of potash as an anti-scorbutic. In a paper published in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences for we gave the results of our experience up to that time with potash in this connection. Since then we have had abundant opportu- nity of using it, and have seen nothing to cause us to modify the opinion then expressed of its great value. As a prophylactic of scurvy we regard it as invaluable. At Cebolletta, in New Mexico, where the Avrit'er was stationed several years, the men of the garrison never had scurvy originating in them at that place, though it prevailed very extensively at other ports in the territory. Upon analyzing the water in use it was found to contain a large proportion of potash, and to this fact the immunity from scurvy was attributed. The bitartrate is perhaps the best form in which to employ potash as an anti-scorbutic. It is more easily pre- served and transported than lime-juice, and is, moreover, cheaper. An ounce of it taken daily when the men are so situated as to render them liable to scurvy, would, we are27 confident, entirely prevent it. Dissolved as far as possible in water, with a little sugar added, it makes a very pleasant drink. The efficacy of potash is inferentially ver}' strongly sup- ported by the fact that those vegetables which are most prized as anti-scorbutics contain it in larger quantity. Thus' besides the lime-juice, in wliich it exists as an acid salt, we find ilmtjjotatoes, which are almost as efiicacious, contain it in large quantities. In New Mexico, when the winter had passed, we found the best results were obtained from the use as a salad or greens of the lambs' quarter, (chenoiMdium cdhum,) one of the first of the spring plants. The men devoured it with the greatest avidity. Upon anah'sis of the expressed juice we found it to abound in potash. The sorrel, (rumex acetoseUa,) which has likewise proved of the greatest value as an anti-scorbutic, owes its power to the acid salt, the binoxalate of potassa, which it con- tains. Both these plants are found throughout the United States. Pickles and saiter kraut are also valuable anti-scorbutics, though not to be compared with those named. The French in the Crimea found great benefit from the use of the dandelion, (leontodon taraxacum,) which was largely gathered by the men, and which they ate with vinegar. We might mention many other special anti-scorbutics, but we think enough has been said to direct attention to those which are most valuable. Almost any succulent vege- table will give such a variety to the ordinary diet of the soldier as to prevent the occurrence of scurvy. If our army should always get the full ration, (which is scarcely to be28 expected,) there would not be mucli probability of this disease making its appearance among our soldiers. Con- gress did a wise act in adding potatoes to the ration. Treatment of scurvy.—Scarcely anything remains to be said under this head. The general treatment is that which we have indicated as best adapted to prevent the occur- rence of scurvy. The special treatment must be directed to such prominent symptoms as particularly claim attention. The measures to be adopted are, however, at most merely adjuvants to those physical, moral, and dietetic means which we have already insisted upon, and which will of themselves eventually relieve any local manifestations of the disease. Swollen and spongy gums may, however, be washed with a solution of tannin or a dilute solution of per- sulphate of iron. Ulcers are to be treated according to the general principles applicable ; Aveak astringent or gently stimulating applications being generally the best. Stilf joints are to be rubbed with a stimulating liniment and subjected frequently to passive motion. Should false anchylosis have occurred, the limb is to be forcibly ex- tended and fix^ by mechanical means. We have frequently succeeded in restoring' complete motion under such circum- stances by this measure. A tonic course of treatment has been recommended in scurvy. We scarcely think it frequently necessary. Iron. however, is always beneficial and deserves to rank high as a remedy for scurvy. We have had no experience with it as a prophylactic, but as an antidote to the scorbutic diathesis it is very valuable. We have usually preferred the tincture of the chloride in doses of thirty drops three times a day. The beneficial effect soon becomes well marked.29 Bathing frequently is also a valuable adjuvant. The bath should be tepid so as neither to exhaust or depress the vital powers. In conclusion, we have only to repeat what we have already said, that scurvy is a pre-eminently preventable disease. A case of scurvy in a camp or garrison is a reproach to some one. Let the members of our profession who are charged with the medical care of our sick soldiers see to it that the reproach does not rest \vith them. WILLIAM A. HAMMOND, Chairman. ■ JOSEPH CARSON, M. D. EDWARD HARTSHORNE, M. D. WALTER F. ATLEE, M. D. S. WEIR MITCHEL, M. D.SANITARY COMMISSION. (N.)SANITARY COMMISSION. 0. REPORT or A COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATE MEDICAL MEMBERS OF THE SANITARY COMMISSION ON TUE SUBJECT OF THE TREATMENT OF FRACTURES IN MILITARY SURGERY. PIIILADKLPHIA : J. B. LIPPING OTT & CO. 18G2.The attention of the Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoidably de- prived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical stafi", of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying in a condensed form the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our princi- pal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on "The Treatment of Fractures in Military Surgery" belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by the Commission to the medical officers of our army now in the field. . FRED. LAW OLMSTED, Washington, Dec. 6th, 1861. Secretary.(3) ON THE TREATMENT OP FRACTURES IN MILITARY SURGERY. In military practice, peculiar diflSculties ai'e apt to exist in the treat- ment of fractures; so that the surgeon is sometimes obliged to amputate limbs which he might in civil life hope to save. These difSculties arise either from the want of suitable or adequate apparatus, or from the un- favorable conditions of the case; as on the field of battle, on the march, or wherever the patient must be transported any distance before finding the rest and quiet so essential to his comfort or even safety. It has there- fore been thought by the Sanitary Commission that some hints upon this branch of surgery, and especially upon the expedients which may be resorted to in emergencies, might prove useful to those engaged in the army medical service. MATERIALS FOR SPLINTS, ETC. A supply of heavy pasteboard, or binder's board, will be found of great value for making splints. It may be cut into strips eighteen inches long and six wide; there should also be a dozen or more pieces of twice this width, for making angular arm-splints. Paper of any kind, but the stouter the better, folded to give it sufficient firmness, may be substituted in many cases, when pasteboard cannot be had. Wide straps of thick leather, or even strips of the bark of certain trees, will often answer. The pasteboard, first softened in hot water, is moulded to the injured part, and confined in its place by means either of bandages or of adhesive plaster. Cold water will soften it, but not so well as hot; it may be bent without either, but is not then very manageable, and moreover is apt to break.4 Baniliiges ought never to be applied directly to a fractured limb at first, except in special cases, as for instance when the patella or the olecranon is the seat of injury. This rule is particularly imperative where the sur- geon is obliged to send the patient away from his immediate oversight, since irreparable mischief from constriction of the SM'oUen limb may have ensued before it is examined by another medical oflBcer. Splints should never be too small. If flat, they should be wider than the broken limb, so that a triangular space is necessarily left between the splint and the bandage on either side of the limb. In recent cases, where swelling is to be looked for, this is a matter of importance. Shaped splints should never surround the limb more than one-third, and there should always be a layer of some yielding substance, such as cotton batting or folded flannel, tow, or bags stufi"ed with bran, chaff, sand, sawdust, dried leaves, or fine hay, between any splint and the skin. Splints should never be too short. The whole of the broken bone needs support, and in order to this the joints at either end must be secured as far as possible at perfect rest. Nothing is more essential to safety and comfort during transportation than attention to this point; and the only safe rule is to aim at supporting the entire limb. Wooden splints are somewhat less easily attainable in military than in civil practice. If flat, they may be made to fit better by conforming their outlines to those of the injured limb; it is sometimes well also to cut holes, with carefully rounded edges, for the reception of bony prominences, such as the condyles of the humerus. Tin splints are highly spoken of by some authors; the only disadvantage they have is that they cannot be so accu- rately adapted to the part as pasteboard, unless the sheets are selected especially on account of their thinness, and then they would be apt not to be firm enough. An excellent plan for putting up fractures of the extremities, in an emergency, may almost always be adopted; it is only strange that it is so little known. This is to take a bundle of straw, the stifi'er the better, (wheat straw is the best,) and to enclose the limb in it, the component straws lying parallel to the axis of the limb. The latter and its envelope may then be bound round with wisps of straw, strings, bandages, or any convenient article, care being taken not to compress the seat of fracture too strongly. Greater firmness may be given by inserting two or more sticks among the straws at either side of the limb. Should swelling now occur, the dressing will yield, the straws being simply drawn out in the direction of their length. The state of the parts may be readily watched; haemorrhage will be at once manifest; and when the dressing is to be removed, we have only to loosen the circular bands. Extension and coun- ter-extension may be made in various ways, upon a limb thus done up. When suitable straw is not to be had, hay, the stems of bushes, corn-stalks S5 or leaves, cane-stalks, twigs, or small sticks may be substituted. Almost any fracture of the extremities can be thus arranged so as to be comfort- able, even if the patient has to be transported some distance. And in those rare cases in which the bones of the trunk ai-e broken, either on the march or in the field, the whole body may be encased in the same way, a much larger bulk of straw being of course required. In some countries, the custom prevails of placing broken limbs in a mould of wet clay, which dries into a very solid case. This might be resorted to temporarily, in the absence of all other appliances, but has the disadvantages of weight and liability to crack. Wire has of late years been extensively employed for the construction of splints. It may be provided in the form of a fine net-work, in rolls, to be cut in the figure wanted for use; or coarse wire may be carried in coils, pieces being cut oflF and bent into shape when required. The latter is generally made into a frame, on the under side of which the limb is, as it were, suspended in the turns of a bandage. At a somewhat advanced stage of the treatment, the danger of swelling is past, and the patient is usually placed under more favorable circum- stances for the employment of the immovable apparatus, in some one of its forms. The best of these is perhaps the plaster of Paris splint or band- age ; the splint being made by dipping coarse old washed muslin, pre- viously cut and folded to the proper shape, in plaster mixed with cold or hot water, and the bandage by rubbing in dry plaster into the meshes of an ordinary roller, which is moistened as it is applied. None but the best finely ground plaster should be used; its setting or hardening is quickened by the addition of a little salt, delayed by that of a few drops of mucilage. Some surgeons apply the plaster to the naked skin, previously greased. Another form of moulded splint may be made by folding old flannel, and saturating the outer thickness of it with shellac or varnish of some kind. Felt is used by many surgeons in preference to any other material for making splints. Starched and dextrinated bandages have fallen somewhat into disuse of late years, the slowness with which they harden rendering them particularly unsuitable for employment in military practice. We decidedly recommend immediate reduction whenever it is at all practicable. It is not true that the parts remain wholly inactive for eight or ten days, for swelling occurs by effusion of lymph and congestion, and the muscles shorten; so that it may be extremely difiicult at the end of that time to bring the fragments into place. In all cases of doubtful diagnosis, as when the injury is near the hip- joint, it is better to etherize the patient thoroughly, so as to relax the muscles, and render the examination of the part not only less painful, but more satisfactory to the surgeon.6 COMPOUND FRACTURES. The compound fractures met with by the army surgeon are in a very large majority of cases the result of gunshot; and the improvements in modern fire-arms have given these injuries a much more uniformly serious character than they formerly had. It is very seldom the case now that a ball touches a bone without shattering it; and this does not involve the necessity of a large wound of either the skin or the periosteum,—a fact which modifies not only the diagnosis, but the course and prognosis of gunshot fractures. When amputation is not at once called for, (a matter elsewhere dis- cussed—see Documents F and G,) the surgeon's great object should be to change the compound fracture into a simple one. Hence the wound must be cleansed of all dirt, foreign bodies, balls, bits of clothing, or loose splinters of bone. With regard to these latter, all the best authorities, Malgaigne, Baudens, Macleod, Bryant, Longmore, agree that they ought to be diligently sought for and removed. Dupuytren classified them into— 1. Primary, completely detached by the injury itself. 2. Secondary, so slightly retained by periosteum as to become loose when inflammation is set up. 3. Tertiary, liable to subsequent necrosis. The latter, from their size, shape, or situation, may have to be left in place for a time; the two former should always be extracted as early as possible. The surgeon must use his best judgment in distinguishing between the difi*erent forms of splinters. Haemorrhage should be completely checked, by the ligation of the main artery of the limb, if it cannot be done otherwise. Resection of the ends of the fragments is sometimes necessary, when they project through the wound, or have forced their way through the skin, and cannot be reduced. The sawing should be done obliquely, and in such a way as to favor the accurate fitting together of the cut surfaces. Much trouble from spasm and tension of the muscles is thus obviated, especially when the patient has to undergo transportation. Sutures can only be used in very rare cases, when the wound is a large and clean one; and they should always be amply supported, unless the patient can be kept under the surgeon's eye, by adhesive strips. Bandages ought never to be applied to compound fractures on the field; the best plan is to put the part up in a bundle of straw, with or without extension, or to fasten it to a splint of some kind with broad adhesive strips. In the later stages of the treatment, when there is less hurry, and more conveniences are at hand, the bandage of Scultetus may often be7 usefully employed; it consists of strips of muslin, whose length is about one-third more than the circumference of the limb, laid so as to overlap one another by about one-third, and then brought up so as to surround the part. The chief use of this is to make slight compression, and to retain dressings; it has the advantage that any of its constituent strips, when soiled, may be easily withdrawn, a fresh strip being pinned to one end of the soiled one so as to be put in place at once without disturbing the hmb. Extension is always a matter of more or less importance, and sometimes suflBces of itself to keep a broken limb in comfort. It is easily made with adhesive plaster, a handkerchief, a wisp of straw, or a piece of bandage. Sometimes it is well to recollect that the patient's boot or shoe need not of necessity be taken off in order to apply the extending band. Counter- extension may be made by handkerchiefs or any other convenient means. When the patient must undergo transportation, it is almost always better to fasten the extending and counter-extending bands to fixed points in the litter or bed, or on the floor of the wagon; pegs being driven for this purpose if necessary. There is, however, one case in which continued extension may do harm, if made too powerfully; it is when a considerable loss of the substance of the bone has occurred, so that the fragments need rather to be held together than to be drawn apart. The dressings most suitable in these cases are composed merely of lint or soft old rags wet with cold water, lightly confined in place. If the sur- geon has to send the patient away from his constant oversight, warm-water dressings, covered with oiled silk, or some other impervious material, are likely to be comfortable for a much longer time than cold, which require moistening as evaporation takes place. Ice or ice-cold water has been highly spoken of, particularly by Prof. Esmarch, of Kiel, as a local application in compound fractures as well as in other injuries. A trial of it is recommended. When suppuration is set up, the surgeon must provide some means of soaking up the discharge—and there is nothing better for this purpose than ordinary bran. It was, indeed, proposed by Dr. J. R. Barton to dress compound fractures simply by embedding them and covering them over with bran. A very annoying and disgusting circumstance, which sometimes takes place in compound fractures, is the development of maggots in the wound. This can only be prevented by keeping the part covered so that flies cannot get at it to lay their eggs. The maggots can be destroyed by lye- washes, or by diluted solution of chlorinated soda.8 SPECIAL FRACTURES. Fractures of the Lower Jaw.—These are best treated by means of the bandage described by Dr. Barton, and known by his name. (See cut.) Another and simpler plan is to slit up a bandage, 3 inches wide and a yard in length, from either end to within 3 inches of the centre; which being applied over the jaw, the two tails on either side are crossed over one another, and the corresponding ones tied at the top and back of the head respectively. A cap of paste- board, folded paper, or even plaster of Paris, should first be fitted to the chin. If time permit, the coaptation of the fragments may be further ensured by enclosing the teeth adjoining the injury in a loop of fine wire, tightened by twisting its free ends together. The extraction of a tooth is seldom if ever necessary to enable the patient to take food. Fractures of the Clavicle.—In these we must often be content with simply suspending the arm in a sling, made or folded into a triangular shape, the apex being pinned or sewed up so as to bring the elbow as far as possible across the front of the chest. The best bandage is Velpeau's, particularly when the patient has to be transported; it is so little known in this country that a description of it may be useful. The hand of the injured side being brought up so as to rest upon the sound shoulder, a roller 2^ inches in width is applied, beginning in the sound axilla, passing across the back to the injured shoulder, down in front of the arm, under the elbow, up behind, and over the shoulder, and down across the front of the chest to the original point of starting. This having been several times repeated, turns of the bandage are made horizontally around the body and the arm of the injured side, from below upward, until only the hand and the tip of the shoulder are left uncovered. The arm is thus bound to the trunk, and the whole is secured by inserting pins wherever the turns of the bandage cross one another. Whenever it is practicable to place the patient permanently on his back, the deformity in fractures of the collar-bone will be found much lessened, or almost entirely corrected. Fractiires of the JRibs and Sternum.—These call simply for pressure on the walls of the chest; which may be made either by applying broad strips of adhesive plaster, first stretched, covering in the point of injury9 and several inches on every side of it, by surrounding the chest with firm turns of a broad bandage, or by any other constricting means which may be at hand. Compresses judiciously arranged are sometimes of great use in bringing the pressure to bear upon the exact points needing it. Fractures of the Humerus must be differently treated according to the point at which the bone may have been broken. But it must always be remembered that from the form of the limb the leverage on the frasments is very great, so that the whole member must be well supported. Short- ening must be carefully obviated when the line of division is oblique. Angular splints of wood or pasteboard answer the end best; if these cannot be obtained, a mould of clay or of plaster of Paris may be used, or the straw previously described, as a temporary resource. In making an angular splint, the part intended for the upper arm should be left at least 10 or 12 inches long, so as to reach completely up into the axilla. When the fracture is very high up, the splint being cut to fit the inside of the arm and foreai'm, the elbow being at a right angle, a paste- board cap should be adapted to the shoulder and upper half of the arm; and then, the limb being bound to the splint, the cap should be fixed in place by figure-of-8 turns around it, the body, and the axilla. The object of this is to confine the scapula, and through it the upper fragment. When the shaft is broken at any point in its length, either an inside or an anterior angular splint may be used, one, two or three short pieces being placed on the arm so as to confine it still more closely. If the seat of fracture is low down, close to the condyles, or involving one or both of them, any lateral splint is apt to press the lower fragment out of place; and hence an anterior angular splint is preferred by many surgeons, its angle fitting across the bend of the elbow, and the forearm being in complete supina- tion. But this posture is an unnatural one, and cannot be comfortably endured for any length of time. Hence it is better to combine the inside and anterior angular splints, by tacking a piece of pasteboard of the proper size and shape to the upper or arm portion of an ordin- ary wooden inside angular splint. Or, cutting out the "whole from one piece of pasteboard, we may follow the outline of the inside an- gular splint, but make the upper portion, above the angle, a little more than twice as wide as usual; and then, cutting a slit half way across it, contin- uous with the upper edge of the forearm part, we have a portion which10 may be bent over so as to fit the front of the arm. (See cut.) All these inside angular splints should have the part corresponding to the hand cut at an obtuse angle with that for the forearm, so that the hand may be inclined toward its ulnar border; this will add greatly to the patient's comfort. It is easy to see how the same purpose could be answered with a piece of stout wire, bent so as to form a frame for the limb, well wrapped in bandage, and secured like any other splint. Extension and counter-extension, when a strong tendency to shortening exists, may be best made by means of a separate splint, applied first of all, and reaching along the back of the arm from above the shoulder to below the elbow, bands of adhesive plaster being passed beneath the axilla to its upper end, and over the bend of the elbow to its lower. Fractures of the Forearm.—The bones of the forearm are exactly on a plane with one another when the hand is in the semiprone posture, and at the same time none of the muscles are put upon the stretch; this is there- fore the proper position to be given to the hand in all cases of fracture of the upper extremity. It is most effectually secured by means of an inside angular splint, similar to that for fracture of the humerus; the upper or arm part of such a splint not only preventing rotation of the hand, but serving to increase the steadiness of the broken bones. Narrow com- presses, so arranged as to preserve the interosseous space, ought always to be employed. The forearm part of this splint may be made on the prin- ciple of that known by the name of its inventor. Dr. Bond; its edges being cut to correspond with the outline of the forearm, and a block, a wad of paper, a mass of clay, plaster or wax, or a pad of tow, arranged so as to be grasped in the palm of "A the hand. If this block or pad is too \ large, it will simply bend the wrist backward. The same purpose may be answered, if the splint is made of pasteboard, by cutting it long enough to reach the ends of the fingers, poftening its end in water, and then doubling or rolling it backward. (See cut.) Angular deformity is less likely to ensue in fractures of the ulna or of both bones near the middle, if a slip of leather or of pasteboard is tacked along the ulnar border of the splint, or by turning up this border if the splint is made of pasteboard. Fractures of the olecranon are even rarer in military than in civil sur- gery; they are best treated by means of an anterior pasteboard splint, bent very slightly, and adhesive plaster directly applied so as to keep the fragment as nearly in place as possible.11 For fractures of the metacarpal bones or phalanges, a liand-splint should be used, with a block or pad as described above. In many cases, it is suf- ficient to close the hand over a ball of the proper size, securing it so by means of adhesive plaster. Fractures of the loiver extremities are especially difficult of manage- ment, on account of the size and weight of the parts involved, and the consequent trouble in fixing the fragments so as to prevent their rubbing against one another or tearing the adjacent soft tissues. In the thigh, the bone being single and comparatively small, the muscles powerful, and the leverage on the lower fragment great, it is very gener- ally necessary to use some extending force from the outset. Sometimes, on the march or in the field, we must be content with the straw-splint described in Section I; but if possible, some form of exten- sion should be added to this. Thus a board of proper length may be placed along the outer side of the limb, and a handkerchief folded cravat- wise passed around the perineum and tied to its upper end, while the foot is secured below in like manner. The extend- ing band may in such a case be tied over the shoe or boot. Or the board may be placed along the inner side of the limb, its upper end carefully padded, bearing against the perineum. Another plan, when the patient is to be transported in a vehicle, is to drive pegs into the floor of it at points corresponding with the axillse, and others a few inches beyond the soles of the feet; these pegs being long and strong enough to serve as points of at- tachment, the upper ones for the shoulders, the lower ones for the feet, by means of wisps of straw, handkerchiefs, bandages, or adhesive , strips. (See cut.) Other pegs may be driven so as to be conveniently grasped by the hands of the patient. Whatever material is used for him to lie on, should be laid as evenly as pos- sible; and the injured limb should be care- fully and firmly wrapped in its own bundle of straw. When time permits, and a few boards can be had, a very good plan is to have a box knocked together, consisting of a bottom and two sides. The outer side should be long enough to reach from 4 inches12 below the foot to the axilla, the inner one from the same point to the perineum; the bottom, smoothly bevelled off above at its upper edge, should reach from the tuber ischii as far down as the other two. Counter- extension may be made from the perineum as in the ordinary Physick's apparatus, extension by any convenient band fastened to a peg driven either between the two sides, which is best, or vertically into the bottom of the box at its lower end. Straw, hay, sand, bran, cotton, tow, or even leaves, may be used to embed the limb and prevent its contact with the wood. In hospital, as a matter of course, the treatment may be as a general rule carried on much as in civil practice. Desault's apparatus, as modified by Physick, is widely and favorably known. Counter-extension may be made either with the stufied tube of buckskin or muslin, the perineum being daily washed with whiskey, and carefully dried before the hand is reapplied, or by means of adhesive plaster when an abundance of this material is at hand. With regard to the extension, this is best made with adhesive plaster, in the following way: A strip 2 inches wide, and twice as long as from the seat of fracture to 3 inches below the sole of the foot, is stretched as much as possible. A bit of thin wood, 2 inches square, is next fitted to the middle of its adhesive surface, and on either side of this a small slit is cut lengthwise in the plaster. Through these two slits a strip of band- age is passed, so that the bit of wood is between the two strips. The ad- hesive band being now applied up along each side of the limb, .and fixed by two ori»three transverse or circular strips of plaster, it will be found that strong extension may be made by pulling on the two ends of the bandage, and may be rendered permanent by tying them to the lower part of the outside splint. During the early stages of the treatment, while the muscles are apt to contract spasmodically, it is well to insert in some way a piece of elastic material, which will yield somewhat, resuming its tension the moment the spasm subsides. Some surgeons, among whom is Dr. Buck, of New York, discard the long splint for fractures of the thigh, making counter-extension from the* head of the bed, and extension by a weight attached to the foot and hang- ing at the foot of the bed. From 15 to 30 pounds will be requisite for a man of average muscular development. Short splints should always be employed when the long splints are omitted. They may be confined in place by means of circular bands of adhesive plaster, or by the upper turns of a roller which begins at the toes. If the long splints of Physick are used, they should be just wide enough to prevent the circular strips of bandage from bearing upon the skin of the limb; they should each be lined, if possible, with a piece of old blanket, folded in four or five thicknesses. When this cannot be had,13 cotton, linen or tow may be substituted for it, or bran bags may be used. A splint-cloth .is useless, the same purpose being much better served by giving each of the circular strips of bandage a turn around each splint, enclosing also the lining, which is thus kept in place. Some sort of old stuff, woollen if possible, should be folded so as to form a protection to the whole under surface of the limb. The circular strips of bandage will be sure to stretch somewhat during the first 24 or 48 hours; after that they may be made more secure by tacking them to the edges of the splints. Various forms of inclined planes have been described for the treatment of fracture of the thigh. The single inclined plane may be very usefully employed, with careful watching by the surgeon; it is made by fastening a board, as long as from the tuber ischii to an inch or two beyond the heel, and inclined at such an angle as may be judged suitable to an upright board, so that the latter shall project about a foot above the upper end of the former. Holes are bored in this projecting part, through which the extending bands pass to be tied, and the injured limb lies upon the slope, the weight of the body making the counter-extension. The double inclined plane is well known; its most recent and approved form is that given to it by Dr. N. R. Smith, of Baltimore. Dr. Smith's splint consists in a rectangular frame of stout iron wire, about 3 inches wide at one end, and 2|- or 2| at the other; it is intended to reach from a little above the spine of the ilium to a point just beyond the toes, and should, therefore, be about 3 feet 8 inches long for a man of ordinary stature. Cross-pieces of wire are firmly clinched to the side- pieces at intervals of about 8 inches. There are also two double hooks of wire, each of which is adapted to clip the side-wires firmly, and has a loop above like a figure of 8, forming an eye for the attachment of a suspend- ing cord. A small pulley and a tent-block are useful, but not indispensa- ble to the apparatus. When the splint is to be applied, it is bent so as to correspond with the front of the limb when the hip, knee, and ankle are somewhat flexed; it is then wrapped in the turns of a bandage, and the limb bound to its under surface. The double hooks are now made to catch the splint at about the middle of the thigh and leg, and a cord attached to both; to the middle of this cord is tied the end of another, rove through the tent-block and passing over the pulley, which is fastened to the ceiling. Extension is made in proportion to the degree of slant assumed by this latter cord when the limb is thus suspended; the weight of the body is the counter-extending force. If the extension is not made properly, or if the splint presses too much or too little above or below, the points of attach- ment of the suspending cord should be changed; and the efficiency of the apparatus may be enhanced by raising the foot of the bed with blocks. Sometimes, when the bone is broken obliquely and high up, it may be necessary to use the inclined plane in order to bring the lower fragment14 into proper relation with the upper, tilted upward by the action of the psoas and iliacus muscles. At a late stage in the treatment, union having duly taken place, and the callus merely needing support, some form of the immovable apparatus may be found useful. Fractures of the patella occur very rarely in army practice. "When longitudinal, the only treatment they need is confinement of the limb and the subduing of inflammation. When transverse or oblique, it is necessary to fix the fragments, which may be done with strips of adhesive plaster applied above and below, a splint being placed behind the knee to prevent anything like flexion. Another plan, described by Dr. Sanborn, is to apply a roller from the toes to the trunk; before covering the knee with this bandage, a strip of adhesive plaster is laid lengthwise down the front of the lower part of the thigh and upper part of the leg, and fastened by turns of the bandage or by other strips, its middle part being, however, left uncovered. A hard compress is now placed under this loop of ad- hesive plaster, above the upper fragment, and by pinching up the loop and twisting it with a piece of stick, the fragments will be pushed together. Fractures of the hones of the leg are extremely troublesome when they occur on the march. The same means may be used in these cases as when the thigh is the seat of injury,—straw splints, temporary extension, a fracture-box, as circumstances may allow. Support should be given to the whole limb, from heel to hip, and the foot should be carefully secured from falling either inward or outward. The ordinary fracture-box, having a bottom, two sides, (fastened to the bottom by hinges of leather or iron, if possible,) and an end, the latter projecting up high enough to keep the bedclothes from weighing on the toes, may be stuffed with straw, or a pillow laid lengthwise in it, and serves as well or better than any other arrangement for the transportation of the patient. (See cut.) Extension and counter-extension can be readily made in such a box, in a manner which will suggest itself, when shortening is present; adhesive plaster is the best material for the purpose. Wire splints may be adapted to the leg, as to the thigh; and any form15 of apparatus that is used will be made more tolerable by the suspension of the entire limb. It is better in these cases, in fitting the wire splint, to make the angle at the knee more obtuse than for a fracture of the thigh, and always to hang the limb in such a way that the broken bones may be horizontal. Should lateral angular deformity occur after fracture of the leg, it must be corrected by a careful adaptation of Dupuytren's plan, by binding the limb to a lateral splint, with a wedge-shaped compress arranged so as to bear against the projecting angle. When, at an advanced stage of the treatment of fractures of the leg, pasteboard splints are used, they should always be applied to the sides of the limb; never to its posterior surface. Fractures of the tarsal and metatarsal bones, as seen in military prac- tice, are very apt not only to be compound, but to require amputation. In favorable cases, inflammation being subdued, a pasteboard splint should be accurately fitted to the front of the leg and back of the foot. When a fracture-box, like that recommended for the leg, can be had, it will ensure greater comfort to the patient, especially if he has to be moved any distance. JOHN H. PACKARD, Chairman. GEORGE W. NORRIS. GURDON BUCK. W. H. VAN BUREN. WM. A. HAMMOND. EDW, HARTSHORNE.SANITARY COIYIIVIISSION.SANITARY COMMISSION. P. REPORT OF A COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATE MEMBERS OF THE SANITARY COMMISSION, ON THE SUBJECT OF THE NATURE AND TREATMENT MIASMATIC FEVEES. NEW YORK: BAILLliRE BROTIIEES, PUBLISHERS, 440 BUOADWAY. 1862.The attention of the Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are xmavoidably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying in a condensed form the conclusions of the hiixhest medical authorities in reerard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present them- selves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " The Nature and Treatment of Mias- matic Fevers," belongs to this series, and is respectfully recom- mended by the Commission to the medical ofliccrs of our army now in the field. FRED. LAW OLMSTED, Secretary. "Wasuington, May 25th, 1863.REPORT. Diseases of malarious origin, especially febrile afiections due to this source, are of such importance to the army surgeon that the Sanitary Commission have judged it proper to devote a few i)ages to their consideration. Of the intimate nature of the "pallidal poison," " marsh mias- mata," or " malaria," we are in complete ignoi'ancc. Of the hypotheses thus far advanced, the most plausible are those which refer the morbific influence to the sporules of cryptogamic plants or to the infinitesiinal ova of infusoria. Nevertheless, these are mere theories, unsupported by demonstration addressed to the eye, through the medium of the most perfect microscopes; nor have partisans of the atmospheric or gaseous hypothesis been more successful in attempting to show, by eudiometry, the existence of-any peculiar matter in the air of infected places. This confession of ignorance still leaves us in possession of certain knowledge concerning malaria, from which much prac- tical good may be derived. 1st. It affects, by preference, low and moist localities. 2d. It is almost never developed at a lower temperature than 60° Fahrenheit. 3d. Its evolution or active agency is checked by a tempera- ture of 32°. 4th. It is most abundant and most virulent, as we approach the equator and the sea-coast. 5th. It has an affinity for dense foliage, which has the power of accumulating it, when lying in the course of winds blowing from malarious localities.6 6th. Forests, or even woods, have the power of obstructing and preventing its transmission, under these circumstances. 7th. By atmospheric currents, it is capable of being trans- ported to considerable distances—probably as far as five miles. Sth. It may be developed, in previously healthy places, by turning up the soil; as in making excavations for foundations of houses, tracks for railroads, and beds for canals. 9th. In certain cases, it seems to be attracted and. absorbed by bodies of Avater lying in the course of such winds as waft it from the miasmatic source. 10th. Experience alone can enable us to decide as to the presence or absence of malaria, in any given locality. 11th. In proportion as countries, previously malarious, are cleared up and thickly settled, periodical fevers disappear. In many instances, io be replaced by the typhoid or typhus. 11th. We possess, in our materia medica, an antidote to the malarious poison, as well as a prophylactic against it, 13th. The propinquity of large fires will often prevent the injurious effects of malaria. Inasmuch as the fevers due to miasmatic influence are iden- tical in nature, it has been thought well to give brief descrip- tions of the different varieties, reserving the treatment for sub- sequent consideration, when the special therapeutics of each will be mentioned. These varieties, mutually convertible, one into the other, are known as the intermittent, the remittent, and a third, partaking generally of the first, but occasionally of the second, and best known, in the United States, as the congestive. Of the intermittent fevers, known in this country as " ague," "fever and ague," "chills and fever,"—characterized by an entire cessation of febrile phenomena, during a certain time, we have several types: 1st. Tlie quotidian, occurring once in every twenty-four hours, and commencing about the same time of day. 2d. The tertian, occurring once every other day, with a7 tendency to observe the same rule, with regard to time of com- mencement. dd. The douhle tertian^ in which there is a nioi-ning parox- ysm on one day, and an evening paroxysm on tlie day follow- ing—tlic alternate days exhibiting, in general, fevers of similar characters. 4th. The quartan^ occurring every third day, at or about the same hour. 5th. Other irregular types, as the quintan, sextan, heptau, etc., are to be looked upon as medical curiosities—so rarely are they met with. The frequency of occurrence of these types is in the order named above. An attack of intermittent fever may have prodromata, com- mon to the other varieties, or it may be sudden. When these prodromata occur, they arc usually found to consist of furred tongue, loss of appetite, headache or other neuralgic pains, or that well understood condition of malaise, in which the patient may only complain of " not feeling well." When the disease is well developed, we recognise The. cold stage, nshered in generally by a chill, some- times amountins: to a mere sense of coolness—sometimes to a violent rigor. The features are shrunken and anxious ; the skin cold to the touch and shrivelled ; the nose, ears, lips, fingers, and toes are bluisli. The patients instinctively seek the warmest spot attainable. The breathing is oppressed, sigh- ing or yawning. To the thermometer the skin may show a diminished tempei'ature or may be normal in this respect, even whilst the patient complains of feeling cold. Anorexia, nausea, or vomiting are often present. Usually tlie bowels are constipated, the urine is abundant and limpid. Pains in the limbs, head, and back, are frequent. The pulse is commonly quickened and small. The cold stage may last for a few minutes or for several hours. As it subsides, the sense of chilliness ceases to be felt, the patient throws ofl' the clothes, thirst becomes urgent, the8 pulse increases in frequency and force, wliilst the q\iickened respiration is normal in rhythm. The headache becomes more severe, as do the other neuralgic pains; the tongue is furred— anorexia continues ; so may nausea and vomiting with constipa- tion of the bowels. The thermometer shows an increased heat of the body, above the normal standard. The secretions are diminished, including that of the urine, wdiicli is high colored, and fre- quently yields dejDosits of urates, on cooling. In many indivi- duals, delirium is a striking synBptom. In others, a strong dis- position to sopor or coma is observed. After a variable duration, the febrile symptoms described diminish in intensity, and, finally, disappear—sometimes sud- denly, at others, gradually, the body becoming cooler, and covered with a more or less copious perspiration. It is through this third or sweating stage, that the intermission is reached. During this, the patient may complain severely of malaise and debility, or he may be altogether unconscious of any ail- ment. Many variations from the description above given may be met with. There may be no perceptible chill, the paroxysm seeming to commence with the hot stage. There may be no fever, and no sweating, the chilly sensations only being those recognised; or, lastly, there may be a periodical sweat, with- out chill or fever. Indeed, any Avell marked periodical patho- logical phenomena, not known as hectic, occurring in malari- ous regions, are by some practically regarded as belonging to the disease under description ; since the same agency gives rise to them, and to the same remedy must we look for cure. The ]:)eriod elapsing between the termination of a paroxysm, and the commencement of that which succeeds, is called the intermission. The diagnosis of this disease, consideration being given to the place and circumstances in which it occurs, is not generally attended with difliculty, after observation of one paroxysm.9 With reference to the etiologj', there are several points of interest. 1st. The disease is very little apt to commence at night. 2tl. From the middle of summer to the heginning of winter, is the season, dni'ing which it is most prevalent in the United States. 3d. It is not possible to predict the amount of malarious fever that will ensue, from any given conditions of heat, mois- ture, atmospheric or telluric ])henomena. 4th. In the more temperate regions, the intermittent type predominates. As we approach the erpiator, there is more ten- dency in the fever to become remittent or contjestive. 5th. From Forry's tables, we infer that the relative preva- lence of the disease, in different sections of the United States, is as follow^s, viz.: On the northern lakes, 193. Posts north oV39'^ north latitude, at a distance from the sea and great lakes, 151. Sea coast stations from Delaware capes to Savannah, 370. In the sonth-west, including Jefferson barracks, Forts Gibson, Smith, Coffee, Towson, and Jesup, 747. On tlie Lower Mississippi, 385. In East Florida, 520. 6th. It is an incontestable fact that negroes are more exempt than whites from all miasmatic ailments. It is believed that in mulattoes, the liability to suffer is regulated by the amount of Caucasian blood, in the individual concerned. 7th. The poison of fever may remain in the system very vari- ous times after exposure to malaria. In some instances, a few days only will elapse, before the disease declares itself; in others, an interval of four oi- hve months—perhaps longer—may pass over, before the manifestation of symptoms. 8th. There is a certain protective power against the influence in question, by wdiat is known as seasonmg or acclimation: in other words, l)y previous residence in the infected locality.10 9tli. Among exciting causes, we recognise, exposure to the out-door air, between sunset and sunrise; long continued expo- sure to direct insolation, at higli temperature ; exposure to cold, whilst the body is warm, and the skin active ; fatigue; excessive indulgence of any kind, especially in intoxicating beverages. 10th. Of all diseases known, intermittent fever is, more than any other, apt to be characterized by a tendency to repeat itself many times, in the same subject. After having been once cured, there is a powerful disposition to recur on the seventh day, or on some day represented by a multiple of seven—dating from the last paroxysm. ilth. The disease has a natural tendency, when undisturbed by treatment, to terminate a.t very uncertain periods—some- times lasting only a week, at others, four or five months. All kinds of malarious fever have a tendency, when long continued, to produce certain lesions (if innervation and visceral disease, especially of the liver and spleen, and te interfere with the function of hsematosis. From derangements of the latter, with the accompanying debility and liydrsemia, it is not uncommon to find dropsical affections of the lower extremities. In the experience of New York hospitals, the worst forms of this malarious cachexia have been found in convalescents from what is known as Panama fever. In those, it was very common to find obstinate diarrhoea or dysentery, as complications. In simple intermittent fever, we can always make a favorable prognosis. In many instances, remittent fever is tractable and unattended by danger to life, whilst certain epidemics ma}"" show a very large per centage of fatal cases. The congestive is the most to be dreaded, the mortality being nearly always, very large. " Without treatment, or with the usual treatment of bilious fever, which is little better than none, in this disease, probably three-fourths of the cases termi- nated fatally. But with a special treatment, not more than one in eight." (Parry.) In Maillot's cases, the mortality was 393 out of 1211, a little less than one in three.11 Before proceeding to speak of the therapeutics of miasmatic fever, it may, for t!ie sake of brevity, he well to ^-lance at the dilferences between the intermittent an<l the two other types mentioned. In the remittent form,-''^ the difference may not and probably would not be recognised by the physician, until the time should have arrived for tlie occurrence of the sweating stage. This may appear imperfectly or copiously ; but instead of the relief wliich tlie patient should experience during the intermission, there is only a diminution of the unpleasant symptoms. The pulse contiunes to beat rapidly, the headache and other neuralgic pains remain—usually with diminished intensity—the thirst, anorexia, and malaise are still complained of; and in the course of a short time, the phenomena of the hot stage are reproduced, sometimes with, sometimes without the preceding chill. Once or twice in the twenty-four hours— morning and evening—there occurs this temporary ameliora- tion of symptoms {remission), followed l)y a reappeai'ance of the febrile phenomena {cxacerTxitions). The type may be quo- tidian, tertian, or double tertian—more frequently the first or third than the second. In some cases, so slight is the remis- sion, that the form may be regarded as continued. Should there be chills ushering in the exacerbations, the former are apt to be less marked, at the end of each remission, until they, finally, disappear. From the long continued congestion of the stomach, pro- bably, there is more apt to be severe nausea, vomiting, or epi- gastric pain and tenderness, than in intermittent fever. We may say the same of all the symptoms which have been described as belonging to the exacerbation. Ptcmittent fever niay terminate spontaneously, in the course of two weeks, or it may last ibr thirty or forty days. On an average, we may expect convalescence at the end of a fortnight, * Synonyms—Bilious Fever, Bilious Remittent, Luke Fever, Country Fever, Walcheren and African Fevers.12 under favorable circumstances. Witli appropriate treatment, its duration is mucli abridged. Tlie rapidity and completeness of convalescence are inversely proportional to the danger of the disease. Relapses are easily induced by exposure to any of the exciting causes. Over indulgence of the appetite for food is especially to be avoided. Little need be said in addition to what has already been remarked concerning the pathological anatomy of the disease. The bronzed liver, owing its color, as has been shown by Pro- fessor Alonzo Clark, to the existence of htematoidin diffused through the organ, and not to hsemorrhage into its substance, is the most uniform and characteristic phenomenon to be met with on post-mortem inspection. It is worthy of remark that this condition of the liver may exist for several years after recovery from the fever, and that it may occur from long resi- dence in a miasmatic region, the patient never having suffered from remittent fever. Another lesion, nearly always present, consists in the enlarged, softened, bluish-black spleen. This has been known to reach the enormous weight of eleven pounds. It is doubtless the result of chronic hypertemia, as are most of the morbid appear- ances described by authors, met with in the brain and mucous membranes. It has been said that congestive fever is the form most dreaded by patient and practitioner. This has been called Algid/ever, pernicious or malignant intermittent, pernicious remittent, ^e shall preserve the name—sanctioned by long usage—by which it is known among American physicians. In remittent fever, the tendency seems to a perpetuation of the hot stage. In the congestive, to a perpetuation of the cold. Ordinarily, as has before been stated, it does not show itself as such, ab initio. We are able to recognise its existence, from observing that in the course of a common intermittent paroxysm the first stage, after lasting longer than usual, is not followed by the typical febrile symptoms. The face and extremities13 become pale or livid, the countenance is expressive of anxiety whicli tlie patient does not feel, or it wears a shrunken and impassive look. The skin, covered with a cold clammy sweat, often resembles that with which wo are familiar in Asiatic cholera, known as the " washerwoman's." Increased heat may be perceptible to the hand, over the chest and belly, whilst the extremities are very cold. Complaint is made of epigastric tenderness and oppression. The stomach is often bo irritable as to reject even small rpianti- ties of ice water, or of any fluid that may be swallowed. The matters vomited rarely contain bile. They are usually com- posed of fluids administered, or of thin mucus, frequently mixed with blood. The thirst is one of the most striking symp- toms. Dr. Parry mentions some of his patients exclaiming, " Oil, that I could lie in the river! Oh, if I could have a stream of cold water to flow through me !" and this, too, with the algid skin, the cold tongue, and the cool breath. The bowels, sometimes quiet, are usually loose, the dejec- tions, after the first few, becoming copious and not unlike those of cholera, mixed with blood. When the alvine dejections continue bilious, the prognosis is favorable. Dyspnoea is, almost always, a prominent symptom. The respiration may be hurried, irregular, panting, or it may be performed by a succession of long-drawn sighs. With this difticulty of breathing is associated, as the rule, a small, weak, and frequent pulse, A constant sense of restlessness, nneasiness, or jactitation, indicates the state of innervation. Oftentimes, the patient, when nearly moribund, will insist on getting up from the bed and walking about the room. As in cholera, there is marked apathy as to the course and result of the disease. Cramps in the extremities are frequently observed. In some cases of conges- tive fever, the above mentioned symptoms may continue, with- out any change, except in augmented intensity, when the patient is apt to die either by coma, by syncope, or by asthenia,14 within seventy-two liours of the initial chiU, When the pro- gress is more favorable, a certain amount of febrile I'eaction occurs, very disproportionate in amount to the chill. The body generally becomes warmer, and a sort of intermission results. Discomfort and epigastric iineasiuess are, however, very prone to remain. On the day following, or on the second day, there may be a repetition of these phenomena—in cases terminating favorably and sjiontaneously—the algid phenomena becoming less marked, and the pyrexia more developed, until the parox- ysms assume the character of ordinary intermittent. Unfortunately, this is not the usual history. With each accession of congestive chill, the lesions of innervation and the consequences of local hypergemia become more serious, until the third paroxysm, beyond which life is not apt to be protracted, if the disease have been allowed to run an unob- structed course. Inasmuch as the disease is so often amenable to therapeutical influence, and in view of the great danger to the patient that arises fi'om want of immediate treatment, the diagnosis of con- gestive fever becomes of great importance. Many fatal cases can be traced to want of early recognition of its true nature. We should always suspect its advent, when in paroxysms of the other malarious pyrexias we observe " an ^musualpaleness or lividness of the face y an absence of rigors or a sense of chilliness, while the extremities are really cold / a want of uni- form heat after reaction / a dis])Osition to copious or frequent vomiting or purging, with a sense of unusual xoeightor oppres- sion at the epigastrium,' an extraordinai^ frequency, feeble- ness, or irregularity of the jyz/fo^? / much anxiety of counte- nance, 7'estlessness, or jactitatiooi, or disposition to faintness / considerate delirium or drowsiness / a prolongation of the cold stage, and a less degree of febrile excitement than might have heen anticipated / a contimiance in the ajyyrexia of some mental confusion, sleepiness, faintness, or unusual anxiety, or uneasiness. Any of the above symptoms shoxdd be a sufficient15 xoanuiKj to the 2)'>'uctltluner not to (Jeltuj for a moment the measures requisite for iiiterriqytiiig the paroxysms.''^''''' Ill the ti-eatiiient of miasmatic lever.-, oui- main and great reliance is placed on cincliona and its preparations. "There is 110 snbstitiite fur these. They are nniversally relied npon for this purpose. In all countries and at all periods since tlie discovei'j of the ])roperties of this invaluable and incomparable substance, amidst all the conflictiuo- doo;mas of different medi- cal doctrines, Peruvian bark has never failed to sustain its repu- tation and to answer the expectations that have rested n[)on it. Amidst the mauifuld uncertainties of medical science, and the perpetual contingencies of medical art ; amidst tlie dishearten- ing scientific infidelity which has lately been taking possession of tlie medical mind, shaking to its deep foundations tlie firm old faith in the potency of drugs, and threatening to overturn and demolish it altogether—it is gratifying and consolatory to feel and to know that here, at least, we stand upon solid ground; that here we may hold that tliei'c is one great and im})ortant therapeutical relationship detinitely and positively ascertained and established, defying alike the open assaults of cpiackeiy^ from without and the treacherous machinations of indolent skepticism from within."f The preparation of cinchona, almost universally employed, is the sulphate of quinine. In the treatment of simple intermittent fever, little or nothing is required, during the cold stage, beyond endeavoring to keep the patient warm. Should there be much i)aiii or disturbance of the nervous system, the use of opium is indicated. Tins may be most speedily made efficacious by hypodermic applica- tion—one-quarter of a gndii of muriate, sulphate, or acelate of * I., tl.o diiigaosis of remittent fever, we luive to consider Uic possibility of enteric fever, of pneumonia, of cerebral meningitis, of gastro-enteritis, or of yel- low fever. Mistakes from these sources have only to be mentioned to be avoided, in the generality of cases. \ Bartlctt on Fevers.16 morphia being injected under tlic skin of the most convenient part of the body. In cases of vomiting and purging, this is the only prompt and reliable mode of administration. Should the stomach be oppressed, or nausea be present, nothing gives so much relief as an emetic of mustard powder or of ipecacuanha. Spontaneous vomiting is best treated by copious draughts of warm water, rendered alkaline by soda, potash, or lime, if necessary. Sinapisms may be applied to the epigastrium, if nausea and emesis continue unduly. In cases of great prostration of nervous system during the cold stage, it is frequently necessary to have recourse to stimuli, such as wine, brandy or whiskey, ammonia, ether, &c. If the stomach or bowels do not furnish a contra-indication, it is well, also, to give a scruple of sulphate of quinine by the mouth, or a half drachm by the rectum, in order to avert any tendency to the more serious form of congestive fever that may follow this peculiarity of the first stage. It is often advisable to continue the use of quinine, every two hours, in doses two-thirds as large, until cinchonism or complete reaction be produced. For the management of pyrexia, in simple intermittents, little is needed. Cold sponging of the body relieves the burning heat \ sinapisms or other rubefacients give ease to the neuralgic pains ; gastric disturbance should be treated by means already indicated, and by the administration of carbonic acid. Cold drinks, not in too large quantity, assuage the thirst. During the sweating stage, nothing is needed more than to take care that the patient do not take cold from exposure. The practice of venesection, so much lauded by many authors, has not been alluded to, because there is no end attainable by it that may not be more easily secured by other means w-hich are comparatively destitute of danger, and which do not postpone convalescence by weakening the patient. If it be atlvisable in any class of people, it is assuredly most so among soldiers, where a speedy return to duty should be one of the first considerations of the medical otficcr.17 During the intermission, sulphate of quinine should be given in appropriate closes. To this, all other medication is secondary. With it, properly applied, all other medicines may be useless. The febrifuge may be given by administering two or three grains every two hours, commencing after the subsidence of the diaphoresis, and continuing the dose until cinchonism be produced, or the interval be passed in safety. Should the patient have had several paroxysms, at uniform and well marked times, it answers equally well to give a full dose—say ten grains—two hours before the time at which the first symptoms were felt. Idiosyncrasy must be kept in view, a much smaller amount of the salt being requisite to produce cinchonism in some cases than in others. Occasionally, the remedy cannot be borne, from some peculiarity of constitution. Thus, in some women it gives rise to menorrhagia or to abortion; in males, to gastric trouble or delirium. There is no contra-indication to its use, from any intercurrent inflammation that may exist. On the contrary, it is urgently demanded in pneumonia characterized by periodicity, as we often see it in malarious countries. If the sulphate of quinine should not prevent a subsequent paroxysm, it will render it milder, and will soon check the dis- ease entirely. Its use should be continued for at least two days beyond that on which the patieiit was last free from fever. On the seventh, fourteenth, and twenty-first days, counting from the last attack, the patient should take ten grains of quinine, two hours or three before the time of day at which his last chill took place ; or, commencing two days in anticipation, he should take each day as much as half a scruple. It is desirable, in all cases, to give the remedy in solution or suspended in water, when practicable. If administered m the form of pills, these should be recently made. Where the stomach cannot tolerate the febrifuge, we may use it by the rectum, taking care to increase the dose one half. 2-18 In all such cases, a complete solution should be effected by tlie addition of a drop of elixir vitriol or dilute sulpliuric acid for each grain of the salt. An opiate may be advantageously combined with it, where irritability of the rectum exists. The use of opinm or of capsicum, in some cases increases the tolerance and efficiency of the quinine. From one to two grains of the former or its equivalent, in one of the morphine salts, with ten grains of the latter, may be used. , In obstinate cases, the paroxysm is more apt to be averted, when the patient is kept in bed for an hour before, and an hour after the time at which the chill is expected. There is no special medication, beyond that already indicated, necessary in the treatment of ordinary intermittent fever. Where failure attends our efforts to subdue the disease, in the manner indicated, it is well for the physician to examine into the quality of the febrifuge. The temptations-to adulterate have been strong, and in many instances, the article dispensed is consequently inefficacious. Should the disease have already lasted some time, it will be found advantageous, in obstinate cases, to combine the quinine with iron and capsicum, in the proportion of two grains of the former v^ith one grain of dried, powdered ferruginous sulphate, and an equal quantity of red pepper. A pill thus composed may be administered every three hours, during the day, until thirty have been taken. Chinoidine may be substituted for sulphate of quinia, by doubling the dose. It answers, in some instances, where an idiosyncrasy exists, preventing the use of the latter. It is fsir from uniform in strength. Of sulphate of cinchonine, the same remarks will apply, with regard to relative efficacy. Salicine is efficacious in many instances. It should be given in at least three times the dose recommended for quinine. The same may be said of heeberine and cornine. It is not deemed necessary, here, to mention all the proposed substitutes that have been suggested for the active principle of19 Peruvian liavk. It is sufficient to say that none of them have stood the test of experience, when compared with tlie great remedy. In rebellious cases, the arsenite of potassa, as administered in Fowler's solution, is, by most practitioners, thought to rank next after quinine, as a curative agent. It should be given in ten drop doses, in water, after eating. This seems to insure its more speedy action, and to prevent gastric irritation. Care should be taken to suspend its use, as soon as the facial oidema or articular pains it causes appear. .In patients who need a tonic, after the disappearance of tlie fever, there is nothing more advisable than the use of the nitric or nitro-muriatic acids. Ey some practitioners, indeed, tlie former is considered one of the most trustworthy^ febrifuges we l^ossess. The quinine hitters are admirable for this purpose. The practitioner should not fail to remember how often the effect of any strong impression on the mind serves to put off an intermittent paroxysm. A confident assurance, with certain psychological constitutions, has often prevented an attack of ague. The well known plan of administering a powerful emetic, as the infusion of boneset, an hour or two before the time for the chill, is well to be kept in mind. If practicable, it is advisable, when anti-malarious remedies fail, to remove the patient from miasmatic influence. This, alone, in cases apparently intractable, has sufficed for a cure. The almost universally beneficial effects of a sea voyage are well proved. In the treatment of Remittent Fevers., our endeavor should be, to put the patient, as soon as possible, under the influence of quinine. Much harm is done by the practice of waiting to "prepare the system," before administering the only really efficacious remedy. There may be instances, it is true, in which it is necessary to treat disordered conditions of the stomach or bowels, before the febrifuge can be taken ; but such constitute exceptions to the general rule. It may he taken as an axiom20 that the sooner ive produce the state of cinchonism the mwe speedily a7id certainly the disease will he subdued. Traditional belief that inflammation contra-indicates the employment of cinchona still unhappily influences the minds of many whose experience, in miasmatic ailments has been limited; thus allowing- their fears of an imaginary evil to stand in the way of doing the only positive good to be effected by medication, in breaking up the fever. Should there be irritability of the stomach, so great as to prevent retention of the quinine, the same course of treatment should be resorted to that has already been recommended for intermittent attacks. If the state of the bowels require a pur- gative, there is nothing more easily borne or more excellent in its effects than calomel. This may be given by combining ten, fifteen, or twenty grains of the mercurial with the same quantity of the quinine. Should the dose have failed to purge, in the course of six hours, a saline aperient may be advantage- ously administered. As a gentle medicine of this class, scarcely any is so generally applicable as the infusion of Epsom salt, senna leaves, and fennel or anise seeds. A wineglassful of this given cold, every two hours, is very little apt to be rejected by an irritable stomach, and is very sure to produce the desired alvine relief. Beyond this manner of prescribing calomel, it is doubtful whether it is advisable to go. The habit of systema- tically salivating patients for the cure of bilious fever is, happi- ly, becoming a thing of the past. Common sense should guide us, after the first purgation, in prescribing such medicines as will tend to prevent constipation. In case the first dose of quinine should not have produced the peculiar effects of cinchonism, within four hours, it is well to continue its use in smaller quantities, say from five to ten grains at intervals of like duration, until the paroxysm abate materially or the cinchonism occur. In cases of ordinary severity it may be necessary only to give a scruple of the salt, between the commencement of its administration and the21 beginning of the next exacerbcation. When indicated, the nee of opium is of great service, in combination with the quinine. It is desirable to maintain the influence of tlie hitter remedy for at least two days after the disappearance of the fever. Two grains every three hours will usually be found sufficient to efiect the desired end. After this time, the convalescent should be treated as has already been indicated in the remarks on intermittent fever. So much has been said with reference to the absolute neces- sity of venesection, for the successful treatment of remittent fever, that it is deemed proper to state the opinion of the best authorities with respect to it. By many, the use of the lancet is discarded, except in very rare cases; by nearly all, its employment is restricted to the early stages, and to a single depletion ; whilst many of our most experienced and trust- worthy observers believe that the use of cold alFusion is com- petent to produce every result that would be expected from phlebotomy, with much more certainty and with much less danger to the patient. The fear of failing to bleed in inflam- mations is much diminished, since modern pathology has served to increase our acquaintance with the natural history of disease. How often have the subsidence and disappearance of supposed encephalitis been witnessed under the influence of efficient doses of sulphate of quinine ! How often the amendment and resolution of a pneumonia in like cases of miasmatic poisoning! JSTo better rule can be given for applying the cold afl'usion than that laid down by Dr. Dickson :—" Seat your patient in a convenient receptacle, and pour over his head and body, from some elevation, a large stream of cold water. Continue this until he become pale, or the pulse lose its fulness, or his skin become corrugated, or he shiver." He is then to be wiped dry and put to bed. A remission, thus artificially produced, will follow, and may be reprocured in the same manner, if neces- sary. In case the chilly feelings continue too long, the length of the next aflusion should be lessened.22 Singular relief is often given to violent pain in the head by this means. It may almost be compared to the effects of an anassthetic inhalation, in many instances. Dry cupping to the nucha and temples is serviceable. For the urgent thirst of an exacerbation, nothing is so grate- ful and so advantageous as the effervescing draught of the U. S. Pharmacopoeia. This not only diminishes the desire for drinks, but is, perhaps, the most efficient diaphoretic we possess. It is infinitely preferable to the common and distasteful spirits of Mindererus. When the stomach is tranquil, small quanti- ties (a thirty-second part of a grain) of tartar emetic every two hours are beneficial. This is always attainable, is tasteless, and is prepared by putting a grain of the salt to a pint of water; dose, one tablespoonful. It is well understood that cold water or ice are to be allowed in small quantities and at frequent intervals. For the gastric irritability, when severe, we may prescribe acetate of lead, one grain every hour or two, in solution ; hydrocyanic acid ; creasote; chloroform ; lime water; epigastric blistering and eudermic use of morphia; cold mint julep; opiates by the mouth, or by the hypodermic syringe. Occa- sionally a mustard plaster applied to the spine will prove efficacious. During the exacerbations, the patient will not need more nourishment than is contained in barley, rice, or gum arabic water. Tea and coffee, taken cold, are often most grateful as well as useful, from their stimulant qualities. As soon as the appetite demands and the stomach will tolerate them, it is well to administer nourishing animal broths. Frequently, cold milk and lime water will prove all-sufficient for diet, and will be retained, whilst other food is rejected or causes epigastric distress. In those instances in which, after eight or ten da3's, the dis- ease proves intractable, and shows a tendency to pass into a form resembling typhus or typhoid fever, the treatment should23 consist of support and sucli medicine as particular symptoms may require. It is needless to say that premature exposure, in any way. is to be avoided ; that just care should be paid to bavina proper quantity of nutritious, easily digested food, and that all possible hygienic precautions should be observed. In describing the treatment of Congestive Fevcr^ much might be written, but it would be of little benefit to the practical physician after what has preceded. To recover the patient from the stage of collapse, bleeding and mercurials are men- tioned only to be condemned. The use of cold baths, or cold afl'usion, as described under the head of remittent fever, is per- haps as satisfactory and practicable a method as can be followed. When conveniences for this are wanting, the use of dry cups to the spine, warm applications to the surface with bricks, bottles, or by the hot-air baths, and friction of the skin, are to be recom- mended. The first indication is the same that has already been stated, viz. to produce the specific influence of quinine as soon as possible. It is doubtful if it be necessary to give more than a drachm in any interval. Never wait for intermissions ; let positive inability of the stomach or rectum to receive the medicine be the only obstacle to its administration. In despe- rate cases, raise one or more blisters by boiling water or by ammonia ; sprinkle the denuded cutis with the sulphate of qui- nine, reduced to the finest possible powder, covering the surface with oiled silk afterwards. Great caution is needed, during convalescence, rules for practice in which may be gathered from what has been said under the head of remittent fever. 1^0 stress has been laid on tlie matter of prophylaxis. All that need be said in addition to the various deductions from what has preceded, is so completely set forth in Document D (31) of the publications of the Sanitary Commission, as to render further remark supererogatory. For the Committee, JOHN T. METCALFE, M.D., Chairman.SANITARY COMMISSION.SANITARY COMMISSION. 1 8 6 2. Q REPORT OF A COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATE MEMBERS OF THE SANITARY COMMISSION, ON THE SUBJECT OF THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF YELLOW FEVER. NEW YORK: WM. C. BRYANT & CO., PRINTERS, 41 NASSAU ST., COR. OF LIBERTY.The attention of the Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Array Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- bly deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anylhing that can be termed a medical library. Th« only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staif, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying in a condensed form the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the Geld, on the largest scale, and which arc, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " The Nature and Treatment of Yellow Fever," belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by the Commission to the medical officers of our army now in the field. FRED. LAW OLMSTED, Secretary. New York, August 1st, 1862.ilSANITARY COMMISSION. Q. ON YELLOW FEYER. It will probably fall to the lot of many Army Surgeons to treat this disease during the occupatiou of Southern territories by the Union Forces. Inasmuch as it is eminently desirable tliat easy reference to correct authority concerning its nature and management should be within reach of the Medical Staff of oar service, the Sani- tary Commission have thought ]iroper to prepare for circulation the following paper: In medical literature the affection is now so well known and so universally recognized by the name at the head of this jjage as to render unnecessary an enumeration of its synonyms. LocalUy.—In America the disease is met with, habitually, in the West India islands and in the cities of the Atlantic and Gulf shores, south of Charleston, the latter being included. Occasionally its visitations have extended farther north, to Philadelphia, New York, and Boston. Nor have cities and towns on the Mississippi River been exempt from its ravages. New Orleans has suffered many fatal epidemics, whilst Mem- phis, in Tennessee, has hitherto been its northern limit in the Great Yallcy. More recently, it has appeared in inland towns and on plantations not rcuiotc from the river banks. It isprobable that fifteen iniles is as great a distance as lias been known to exist between navigable ^vater and the locality of an epidemic. Woodville, in Mississippi, is more remote from the river than any other place known to have been thus visited. It frequently originates and prevails extensively on ship- board, when the affected vessels have lately been in the neigh- borhood of places suffering from the fever. In some very rare instances it has occurred in vessels " without the operation of external agencies or the introduction of contagious germs." (La Roche.) In 1799 the frigate General Greene left Newport for Havana. Before reaching port, yellow fever appeared on board, although Havana, ait that time, was free from the dis- ease. When occurring thus, in a majority of cases, " it be- gins in the vicinity of the pumps and the main hatchways, where the shell of the ship is most dependent, where, con- sequently, there is the greatest amount of moisture and of heat." In Newcastle, Jamaica, 4,000 feet above the sea, Lawson re- cords an epidemic. Wherever it may occur, there is often a remarkable tendency to limitation as regards the space over which it extends. A berth in a ship—one side of a vessel—a block of a city—one side of a street, may, for a long time, funiish all the cases in an epidemic. Season.—In the United States, we most commonl}- meet with the early cases during the months of July or August. Tlie disease is prone to last until the first hard frost. During twenty-one successive years, in ISTew^ Orleans, the extreme limits between the arrival and departure of yellow fever were the 23d May and the last day of December. Jleat and Moisture.—A certain degree of heat seems neces- sary for the development of the disease, and it is common tofind the opinion expressed that warm, wet weather, is propitious to its development. Ample experience exists to prove that but little reliance can be placed on the absence of undue heat and moisture, in the way of ensuring exemption from epi- demics. The testimony of JSTew Orleans physicians and of Doctor Blair, in Demerara, conclusively prove that " more or less rain or a greater or less degree of heat has very little to do with tlie production of yellow fever." Age a7ul Sex.—Neither of these etiological elements are sources of exemption ; nor do they exercise an influence Avhich would make tlieir consideration a matter of importance to the Army Surgeon. Fever may occur and prove fatal at any time of life. That men die in larger numbers than women admits of a self-evident explanation. Race.—Negroes may take yellow fever, and they may die of it. In comparison with other races, their slight liability to suffer is very remarkable. In the United States, this exemp- tion is observed, in the mulatto, in direct ratio to the amount of African blood. The more Caucasian, the greater liability to sicken and to die. A full-blooded African rarely contracts the disease, even when freshly imported from his native country and placed in the midst of an epidemic. It has been said, and is generally believed, that robust, stent, or plethoric people are more apt to be attacked than those of opposite temperament. Inasmuch as such persons constitute the majority of individuals liable to the disease, from want of acclimation, we may find a more philosophical explanation of their greater susceptibility than by reference to tempei'ament. Condition and Occupation.—all persons, soldiers and sailors sufier most from yellow fever. It is veiy fatal among prostitutes. Many cases have been observed, in some of the8 Spanish visitations, among those suffering from venereal or chronic disease. Any occupation whicli tends to lower the standard of vitality, or any condition tending to depress the morale, is a powerfully determining cause of the malady. Ex- cessive indulgence in sexual intercourse should be especially regarded in the same light. AcGlimaiion.—Residence for a long time, in yellow fever countries, is acknowledged to exert a certain prophylactic influ- ence. Thus, " in healthy years, what are called sporadic cases, are confined to strangers. In years when the disease does not prevail so generally as to amount to an epidemic, the grave cases are confined to the unacclimated. In epidemics, the na- tives and old residents are frequently mildly attacked; but strangers are very generally seized, and have, in fact, to bear the violence and maliginity which belong to the fever." (Bart- lett.) A person may be said to be thoroughly acclimated wJio has previously had yellow fever. Instances, it is true, are recorded, in which two well-marked attacks have been observed; but the experience of all extensive observers goes to prove the ex- treme rarity of such exceptions to the general rule. It is highly probable that one attack is as completely protective against another, as in the case of small pox, and this independ- ently of the element of severity. The above remarks apply only to places more or less com- monly visited by yellow fever. In the Woodville epidemic of 1844, nearly every one, except a few who had previously'- had the disease, suffered from it. It is doubtful whether removal to and residence in countries exempt from y-ellow fever has the effect of lessening the pro- phylaxis by acclimation. Probably this would not impair the ordinary immunity from a second seizure.9 Onr knowledge concerning epidemic influences is nltoo-ether too vagne to arrest our attention here, Nor can we foretell whether or not the yellow fever will prevail in any given yearj from our present acquaintance with its nature and history. It were equally unprofitable to enter upon the discussion (Tf tlic numerous theories advanced to explain its essential cause. It is to be hoped that the day may ai'rive when our ignorance on those points will be enlightened. It is very certain that it has not yet come. Miasmatic fevers have only to be understood to be distin- guished, at once, from the disease under consideration. The following table will explain the principal differences between them : Miasmatic Fever. 1st. Exists in the hottest and coldest climates. 2d. Affects country localities by pre- ference; rare in cities. 8d. One attack invites another. 4th. Curable by Peruvian bark or its preparations. Yellow Fever. 1st. Does not flourish in either intense heat or cold. 2d. Eminently a disease of cities and large gatherings of human beings. 3d. One attack prevents another. 4th. Not curable by these means. Finally, in many parts of the world scourged by visitations from malarious fevers, yellow fever is unknown. Contagiousness and Communicahility.—Tliese nnich vexed points have been most elaborately and learnedly discussed. From the present state of our knowledge, we may fairly infer : Ist. That there is no danger in allowing contact between per- isons ill of yellow fever and others in good health, the latter being in places where the disease does not exist epidemically. 2d. It is extremely probable that certain articles of merchan- dise, of dress, and of bedding (fomites) convey a material which, under peculiar circumstance, tends to develop the fever.10 3cl. Infected ships are especially to be dreaded. 4th. To abandon Quarantine restraints against yellow fever, is to put a price on human life and barter it for trade. Symptoms.—Yellow fever may attack suddenly, and this, commonly, is the case ; or it may have the usual prodromata of febrile affections. Geuerally, a chill is the forerunner of the violent pains in the eye-balls, over the forehead or in the neck, back and limbs ; neuralgic symptoms which, in part or assem- bled, are scarcely ever absent. It will often be observed that the first manifestations of the fever occur in persons during; their sleep, having gone to bed in apparent good health. En malarious affections, the immense majority of cases commence •, during the day, thus affording another element in which they differ from " the peculiar fever of a single paroxysm" considered . in this paper. When premonitory symptoms exist, they are either neuralgic— generally headache—or the patient complains of languor, an- orexia, furred tongue, or of chilly feelings—these disordered . conditions preceding,, it may be by two or three days, the almost: inevitable chill. After this succeeds the febrile stage, furnishing, as a rule, no • [ extreme heat of body nor quickness of pulse—in fact, in many • instances, the ordinary pyrexial phenomena are so slightly • j manifested, as to afford no indication of the real gravity of the ■ \\ case. Even should there be undue heat of skin, it rarely lasts • beyond twenty-four or forty-eight hours—to be followed, on ces- • jj sation of the fever, by a decided diminution of temperature ' ^ below the healthy standard. Not often strikingly dry, the : ,^ cutaneous surface may be gently moist or profusely perspiring. . Many observers have recorded the common fact that the skin : seems to be in an atonic state. The capillary circulation is easily11 congested^ and irregulav in its distribution and thei-e is a great tendency to fall of temperature, in parts of the body left un- covered for a short time. This point is of exceeding import- ance in the treatment. To the febrile stage, succeeds that of calm or ajnjrexia^ in which many or all serious symptoms may seem to subside—this may be the commencement of true convalescence, but it is too often the prelude to the third stage—that of collapse and death. Sometimes, a fever of reaction follows the second stage, termi- nating in recovery or death, as may be. la yellow fever, the pulso is accelerated, but not, according to general experience, to the same degree as iu nearly all other serious diseases of febrile or inflammatory nature. In diflerent epidemics it varies in regard to strength, sometimes being full, hard.and bounding; at others, sraalU soft and easily compressed. During the post- febrile stage, it is typically adynamic—often feeling as though the artery were filled with gas, instead of blood, so remarkably unresisting is it to the pressure of the finger—extreme slowness is often conjoined with these latter characteristics. In tlie last case treated by a member of the committee, it was only forty to the minute, for several days ; having previously been as high as one hundred and twenty. Great muscular soreness is often compained of. The state of the tongue varies, in diflerent epidemics—it is usually furred, with whitish or yellowish white coating of epi- thelium until the latter stages, when it may be red and : smooth—the papillos having seemingly disappeared. Sometimes it is natural in shape, with the coating already described, and with a red narrow margin and tip. At others, large, flabby, milk white and bearing marks of the teeth against which it has \ pressed. Sordes around the teeth are rarely observed. In tho Hate stages, the tongue may present the dry and brown appear- lance of typhus. Anorexia generally characterizes the disease12 until the eoramencement of convalescence. Hush mentions the fondness for tobacco as being remarkable, with some of tliosa under liis observation—one patient continuing to cliew, througlil eveiy stage of his fever. Of thirst we may say that tliere is^s usuall}', lio great desire for drinks—in some epidemics however,- (as at Portsmouth, Va.) the thirst was so urgent that tlie desira for cokl drinks couki not be satisfied. Nausea and Vomiting scarcely ever fail to command oun attention iti a Avell marked case of j^ellow fever. Gastric: disturbance, thus evinced, is generally one of the early? symptoms. At first the matters vomited consist of the contents: of the stomach, and are not characteristic. To these, mucus,, biie, and, perhaps, a streak or speck of blood may succeed.! According to Dr. Blair, the ejecta, thus far, are of alkaline'. reaction. Emesis may continue from first to last; but, as a= general thing, when once the stomach has been well emptied! it becomes quiet, until some time between the second and fifth day; then, with or without an apparent exciting cause, it mani- fests irritability, and a quantity of clear, jiale, or opalescentt <ZC2VZ fluid is thrown up. Tiiis has received the name of uoliite vo7nit. Dr. Blair looks upon this as being coincident with t'::e' cleaning up, redilening and smoothing of the tongue, already referred to. Exceptionally, bile may be ejected at this stage.. Its a^jpearance may be regarded as a good prognostic element. When emesis does not cease shortly after the above-men-- tioned characteristics have shown themselves, the white vomit is a])t to contain small, snuff-like specks, forming a sooty sedi-- ment—this is the commencement of Mach vomit, which may,, now, be confidently looked for. This well known fluid, of bad ouien, has received much consideration of late years. It is not; always black, but has been noted as being " dark, dark coffee color, dark chocolate, and dark green." In some cases it is •13 l^iown. All these sbades of color are due to tliat of the hjeina- toidin, in each pjirticiilar case. Blood globules presenting a normal appCv^ranco are not met with in ordinaiy black vomit; but the shrivelled cell-Avalls, dyed brown, constitute a portion of the sediment—coloiless, granular, epithelial scales compos- ing the remainder. All infusorial and crj-ptogamic elements found in the fluid are to be regarded as accidental. "When allowed to stand for several hours an opalescent or clear super- natant fluid is left, after the sedimentary deposit has occuired. Muriate of ammonia has always been found present bj the analyses of Blair ai d Davy. Black vomit varies greatly in abundance, sometimes being unobserved—even when post mortem examination shows the stomach filled with it—at others being measured, by the quart. Occurrinp,', generally, during the last day of life, it may com- mence as long as forty-eight hours before dissolution. Tlje vomiting, not usually dilEcult, is often spoken of as simple fulping or pumping. When an abnormal state of the bowels has been noted, iConstiixdion lias been the general rule. Exceptionally, cholera and diarrhoea have been observed. The most accurate account of the alvine dejections is by Doctor Blair, lie says, " ordi- narilj-, the stools first observed were those produced by calomel and castor oil, early prescribed. These were bilious, and not woithy of particular description. Occasionally, in the early Stages, a greater or less quantity of dark matter appeared in the evacuations — tlie first tangible morbid product of the disease, and highly diagnostic of the first stage. It is black, as after taking preparations of iron, or blackish brown, or gray and pultaceous." After cessation of these melanotic ihoemaloidin) stools, the dejections become of a dirty grey Ijolor, abilious, liquid, and on standing, deposit a sediment, re- vealing, to the microscope, crystals of uric acid, and of the14 the triple pliospluatc, properly belonging to the urine. Towards death, the discharges become scanty and mucous, green, olive, fawn-colored, rusty, brown, blaclc, or streaked—the latter being called Uach vomit stools. These redden litmus paper, all tlie others are alkaline. No unaltered blood globules need be looked for in these dejections. To the eye and touch the abdomen presents nothing abnormal, excepting the well-known discoloration of the skin. This symptom, from which one of the old names of yellow fever, tijpJms icterod^s, was taken, is not always present, even in fatal cases. As a rule, it appears in the latter half of the attack, but it may appear among the earlier phenomena. It is apt to be first observed in the conjunctive and about the chin, ex- tending subsequently to the chest, where the hue is often deeper than elsewhere, and to the body generally. The tint varies from a delicate straw color to a deep ochre. It is, no doubt, a true jaundice, and is intimately connected with a peculiar state of the liver, to be hereafter mentioned. ■ Epigastric pain, op>pression, and tenderness are exceedingly frequent symptoms. Even when no complaint has been made —especially in the stage of prostration—very slight pressure on the epigastrium will cause pain, distress, or vomiting. Flatu- lence has been often observed to an extreme degree, constituting a very annoying symptom. In cases of unfavorable epidemic constitution, 'and toward the later stages, hemorrhage consti- tutes a very important phenomenon. It may occur from any mucous surface—from a recent blister, from any wound or puncture of the skin, as that made in venesection, from a leech or mosquito bite, or in cupping. A woman, whether the cata- menia be due or not, scarcely ever fails to menstruate. The tongue and gums furnish the most frequent source of the bleed- ing, especially where ptyalisra has unfortunately been pro- duced.15 Lawson observes, concerning sanguineous discharges, that if normal blood corpuscles appear in the flow, it is often a bene- ficial process, by the relief it affords to congestion. In the form of dissolved hsematine, without globules, it seems to be rather a secretion than a true hemorrhage, is often copious, always nnmanageable, and almost of fatal import. Blood passed by stool, and free from foecal matter, thougii of good crassitude and color to the naked eye, is always found under the microscope, with all its corpuscles riqytured. Since the attention of medical men was called to the state of the iirine^ by Staff Surgeon Collins, of the British Army, much valuable information has been acquired, with regard to the kidneys and their secretion. We now know thaf urcemia con- stitutes one of the most important elements in the patliology of yellow fever. Doctor Blair, after observing eighteen liundred cases, states tliat " albumen appeared in the urine in evciy fatal case of normal duration." It appears on the second or third day, generally, and may show itself within twenty-four hours. Rarely was its appearance deferred until the day of death, or the supervention of black vomit. In cases where the fever aborted, the urine was seldom albuminous. In a few it was noted during convalescence. Purging with croton oil seemed to make it later in showing itself. As in ordinary albuminuria, the phenomenon was not constant, occasionally disappearing for a day or two, to return. It ceased to exist, permanently, from the eleventh to the twentieth day, its disappearance being the indication for discharging the patient from the hospital. The color of the precipitated albumen is primrose or sulphur ; never white, as in Bright's disease. Possibly this, too, is due to some form of hasmatoidin, as no bile Avas discovered by analysis. In the urinary sediment, granular casts of the tubes were commonly found, mingled with disintegrated amorphoiis epithe- lium, in the early period from the bladder, later from the nrin-IG iferous tubes. Doctor Lawson observed that the chlorides com- mence to diminish with the appearance of albumen and are nearly entirely absent when active tubular desquamation is at its height. They began to reappear about tlie seventh day, in favorable cases, and increased in abundance from day to day. It is proper to observe, that in repeated instances, Dr. Porcher found the urine free from albumen. Its presence was excep- tional. The urine is not usually abundant until the establishment of convalescence. " When the secretion was copious and trans- parent, even thougb dark colored and most highly coagulable, the struggle was hopefully maintained," (Blair.) Acid, during the first stage, it habitually preserves this re- action, until convalescence or admixture with bile, when it becomes alkaline. Its color is normal, until the third day, when a sulphur, straw, or primrose tint is observed. This deepens, until it assumes a yellow or orange hue—sometimes, in large quantity, seeming even black. Globuline and casein, creatine and creatinine have been noted by Dr. Lawson in his Jamaica experience. Urea is deficient, as Porcher's excellent observations have shown. Suip'pression is commonly abrupt, Not even black vomit is a more fatal symptom. IIa3maturia is not often met with, and is not highly unftivorable, yer se. The occurring of neuralgic pains is mentioned as being among the early symptoms. Tliese, as a rule, last through the fever, and are, in many instances, inexpressibly agonizing, causing the stoutest and bravest men to complain and groan. Another neurotic trouble, scarcely more supportable, is the un- speakable malaise, under which many labor. Even whilst de- nying the existence of any discomfort, the patient will be incessantly occupied in changing his position in bed, in rising to go to the window or to walk the floor.17 The mental condition is usually one of integrity. In the early stages, much apprehension is commonly felt as to the nature and issue of the disease. As soon, however, as the first or febrile stage has terminated, a most extraordinary indifference to life and its concerns is manifested. Even whilst persons were dying, in their immediate vicinity with black vomit, patients have been known to amuse themselves by trials of dexterity, in seeing which one could most successfully squirt the fatal fluid at flies on the adjacent walls. Doctor Blair, perhaps cor- rectly, attributes this pschycological state to urcemic intoxica- tion. The analogy between yellow fever and cholera, in this respect, of indifference to the result, will be apparent to one familiar with the latter disease. Except shortly before death, delirium is not commonly seen.. Whilst sopor and stupor are not unfrequently met with, coma is not often encountered. The sleep is restless, dreamy, and unrefreshing. The exjyression of the face has been dwelt on by authors; but, whilst acknowledging its peculiarity, it would serve but little useful purpose to state more than that the eyes are suf- fused, red, sometimes having a drunken look, and that hope, iudifi"erence, or despondency may be observed, according to the stage or especial nature of the case. In yellow fever countries, it is common to speak of walking cases. By this term is meant a very peculiar type of the dis- ease, in which death occurs with scarcely imy feeling of illness and without symptoms, such as have been described. To avoid unjust suspicions of malingering, it is necessary to be well aware of this insidious form. Louis mentions the case of Doctor Mathias, who died, after an illness of four or five days, without chill, fever, nausea, or vomiting. He experienced no otRer symptoms, but severe pains in the calves of his legs and urinary suppression. This latter indicated the severity of his case. Bogging a friend to Avrite a few letters from his dictation, 318 he urged him to finish the last rapidly, that he might have time to sign it. Soon after, unable to speak, he thanked his friend, with a sigh, and in a quarter of an hour was dead. Doctor John Wilson speaks of " cases like these, where I have ordered a man to do his duty, because I could not see muoh the matter with him. He continued to do duty, after a fashion, for nearly two days, when the eruption of black vomit gave irresistible and mortifying evidence that the man was no impostor." It has been remarked that there is, in general, more or less marked diminution of muscular strength. In cases of haemorr- hage, and during the second stage (of apyrexia), a patient may be almost perfectly helpless from this debility. Cramps are not usually met with. Spasmodic action of the diaphragm, giving rise to hiccough, is by no means rare. With black vomit and ischuria, it belongs to the category of very bad symptoms. Of the type of yellow fever, enough has been said to estab- lish its di£Ference from remittent, intermittent, or congestive fever, as these terms have been explained in the paper de- voted to those affections. In some epidemics, occurring in malarious regions, the disease has presented elements of period- icity ; but every one familiar with the pathology of miasmatic ailments knows how easily this peculiar feature may occur, as a simple epiphenomenon, having no essential connection with the main malady. Doctor Lewis, by analysing twenty carefully- observed cases of yellow fever, concluded that Xh^ first stage, that of febrile excitement, lasted twenty-two hours; the second stage, that of remission or of calm, of " deceiving tranquillity" (Mosely), one hundred and twenty hours; that of collapse, fourteen hours. Of course, in different epidemics, these num- bers will be found to vary, materially. Few diseases progress so rapidly and are of such short d«ra- tion. Sometimes fatal cases occur within forty-eight hours, the great majority not being protracted beyond a week.19 In mild cases, conyalescence may be established as early as the third day. Some epidemics have been characterized by speedy and uninterrupted return to health, others by a slow and lingering process, extending to several weeks, even where the type of fever was benign. Although tlie symptoms subside on the fourth day, the patient is stripped of all his strength, and can neither sit tip nor take exercise for five or six days. * Generally speaking, relapses are not to be dreaded, although some observers, in particular years and places, have mentioned them as being frequent. Recovery may be expected to occur without sequela? of serious nature. Incubation may be said to have for its usual period about a week. It has been known to extend to twice that time. As to mortality in yellow fever, the usual law of grave epi- demic is observed. The largest proportion of fatal cases occur early in the visitation. Some years will be noted by the com- parative rarity of deaths, others by sweeping devastation. " In Mobile (1819) out of a population of one thousand souls, more than one half of whom were acclimated, four hundred and thirty died!" (Lewis.) After what has already been said, it will be useless to the practitioner to allude further to prognisis in general. Nor need the matter of differential diagnosis claim our further care. In mild cases, occurring in regions where bilious remittent fever prevails, there will always be a likelihood of mistake, for a short time and among the early patients—but this source of error cannot long exist in epidemics. " An initiatory chill, of moderate duration and severity, immediately followed by intense pain in the head, back, and limbs ; redness and suffu- sion of the eyes ; moderate excitement of tlic circulation, and moderate heat of surface; anorexia ; tliirst; white tongue, with red tip and edges ; these febrile symptoms of the first20 stage continuing for a day or two, and tlien, accompanied or followed by epigastric pain and distress; nausea and vomiting; restlessness and anxiety, often more or less paroxysmal; and, in from three to five days after the attack, by yellowness of the eyes and skin ; vomiting of matter resembling coflee-grounds, held in a dark colored fluid ; very dark or black stools ; cold- ness of the extremities; increasing and excessive restlessness, with occasional hiccough, hsemorrhages from different parts of* the body, and suppression of urine—the mind, in many in- stances, remaining clear to the end, and death taking place in from five to seven days from the attack—these phenomena, thus combined, and thus following each other, constitute a dis- ease which it seems impossible to mistake for any other.— (Bartlett.) Of the Pathological anatomy of yellow fever, much has been made known, while much still remains for future research. Cadaveric rigidity is usually well marked. In general, the surface of the body and conjunctiva are yellow, the color being commonly most marked in the face and trunk. As epiphenom- ena, traces of inflammation may be met with in diSerent parts of the body. The hloodj has been more satisfactorily examined by Doctor Blair than by any other observer. He has moreover, the merit of having made his observations in fluid taken from the patients during life. In the first stage, nothing abnormal was found, except an occasional admixture with bile. The alkaline reaction was always observed. Only in the last stages and post mortem, were changes observed. And yet, cases termin- ating fatally, after normal black vomit and hasmorrhages were numerous, in which no abnormal condition, save this bilious tinge, could be detected. Ou the other hand, certain observa- tions showed great changes to have taken place in the circulat- ing fluid, during the last stages. " Scarcely any fibrine,"21 " power of fibrillation lost," " color dirty brown," " corpuscles altered and misshapen, with no tendency to form rouleaux, and with adherent granules," " great rapidity of decomposition," " no separation occurring in the coagulum." Finally, Doctor Blair concludes that the healthy condition of the blood depends upon the free action of the kidneys, a copious black vomit, and alkaline exhalations of the breath. The Irain shows no special pathological condition in its structure. Congestion, with occasional ecchymotic apoplectic extravasions are not very uncommon. The stomach, sometimes natural in appearance, has more fre- quently its mucous membrane discolored, mammelonated, thickened, and softened, with patches of ecchymosis; ulceration is very rare. Its contents vary, according to circumstances. In many cases there are analogous lesions of the mucous membrane of the intestines. These latter frequently contain the matter of black vomit, as is so often the case with the stomach itself. The i3esophageal mucous membrane, as a rule, is found altered, especially by softening and by discoloration, and by loss of epithelium—the latter condition being pi'obably due to the acrid matters vomited. The liveryin fatal cases of yellow fever, as a rule, is in a state of acute fatty degeneration. This was first conclusively shown by Doctor Alonzo Clark, in 1852. It is usual to say that it has the color of cafe au lait, that it is dry, not of necessity altered in size, and that it contains little or no bile. Some observations have spoken of large, dark colored livers, yielding abundance of blood, on section. These are exceptional, as Clark well states, in one case, hypersemia produces much htematoidin, and a moderate amount of oil ; in the other, much oil and little boamatoidin. The gall Uadder may be empty or full. The cases are very exceptional in which normal bile is found in it. Light colored mucus and blood have been met with.33 Of the Udneys Doctor Blair remarks: " In cases wliicli have seen inspected, after protracted illness in apparent convales- cence, the bloody condition of these organs has passed away, and the hypertrophied cortex is of a dull ochery color. I have never leen able to detect oil globules in the kidney. The conges- tion, during life, has only been signalized by albuminous urine. The pains complained of are lumbar. Occasionally, I have noted the kidneys in an almost apoplectic state; and yet their function was scarcely interrupted. On the other hand, I have been disappointed in the amount of congestion, in cases of entire suppression. Further investigation is needed, on these points. The bladder is often empty, and its mucous membrane may show marks of extreme congestion. Of the spleen and other abdominal organs, nothing constant or important has been observed. The heart is, as a rule, soft and flabby. Doctor Riddell, of New Orleans, in examining nearly thirty cases, found " in gen- eral, that the transverse striation of the muscular fibres was in- distinct, in some instances nothing but a granular degeneration of the contents of the myolemma being recoganized by the microscope. Beyond such results as would follow, of necessity, from the state of the blood, in the latter stages, and from the universal tendency to capillary congestion, the hongs present nothing worthy of note. Tkeatmeht. The treatment of yellow fever has varied very much, accord- ing to the theory of the practitioner, and the nature of peculiar epidemics. Many physicians, encountering mild types, the normal tendency of which, without gross mismanagement, is to recovery, have systematically medicated their patients, in somepeculiar way. Attributing to drugs, what was simply a part of the natural history of the disease, the particular therapeutical course pursued by them has been heralded to the world as the true aud only one to be relied on. Is there a possibility of carrying au abortive treatment? Can yelloio fever he cut short 9 In the present condition of our knowledge, this question must be answered in the negative. Medical journals contain not a few contributions, announcing the discovery of ectrotic remedies; but there are two obvious sources of error, in their reasoning. The first has already been alluded to above. The second consists in the fact, that nearly all such observers have exercised their profession in localities subject to prevalence of bilious remittent fever. Certain it is, that subsequent experience on their own part, or on that of the general profession, has failed to confirm the value of the supjDOsed discovery, in any single instance. We are without a specific plan for the cure of this most grave malady. It is strictly, a self limited disease—to be managed, to he led, but not to be driven, violently, towards a favorable issue. At the present day, no wise man places reliance on mercury, on the lancet, on cinchona, or on the muriatic tincture of iron as specific remedies. Appropriate to the treatment of certain con- ditions, and for the relief of certain symptoms, these thera- peutical resources must no longer be regarded as systematic or indispensable in all cases. Among the first necessities are to be reckoned cleanliness, good ventilation, quiet and good nursing. In bad cases, where practicable, there should be two nurses, one for the night, the other for the day. Unless diarrhoea be present the bowels should be efi'ectually opened as soon as the patient comes under treatment. By some, ten or fifteen grains of calomel, followed by castor oil, or a saline draught, is considered the best cathar-24 tic. By others, a drachm of calcined magnesia, assisted in its action by draughts of lemonade, is prefered. No other purga- tion will be needed, unless exceptionally, to meet particular in- dications. Doctor Stone, of New Orleans, if the patient be Been early, advises fifteen grains, or a scruple of quinine, im- mediately. This may be followed, by ten grains more, in the course of twelve hours. Beyond this, he would not go. He thinks the medicine, thus given, prolongs and promotes dia- phoresis, and that " the patient is safe whilst this lasts." During the febrile stage, cold affusion or cold sponging is grateful and refreshing. Affusion may be practiced, as recom- mended in remittent fevers. The violent neuralgic pains may be best relieved by dry cupping, or by rubefacients, as sina- pisms, chloroform, or the like. Thirst may be assuaged by cooling drinks, such as acidulated barley or tamarind water, lemonade, or a weak sweetened solution of cream of tartar. During the second stage, expectation is demanded. Great care should be taken to preserve perfect rest of mind and body pending this period of calm. Strict watch should be kept that the patients do not uncover their l)odies or limbs, whilst care is taken that no undue weight of bed-clothes op- press or overheat them. The sick should never be moved by rough handling. When necessary to change their place in bed, a nurse should station himself on each side of it, and effect the desired end by lifting the under sheet, thus trans- porting the patient, without touching him. This is necessary to prevent uncovering, and on account of the exquisite muscular tenderness, and liability to bruise any part, to which strong pressure is applied. For the thirst which sometimes exists, there is nothing more grateful or appropriate than cold carbonated water, pellets of ice, or the effervescing draught of our pharmacopcea. Ifnourishment be demanded, veal, cliicken, or beef broth is ad- visable. Should collapse occur, or seem threatening, it is to be met by stimulation. Iced brandy toddy, or mint julep, judiciously given, will usually be taken with readiness and easily re- tained, where the stomach is not utterly rebellious. For nourishment, nothing is better than the animal broths, just mentioned. In case of failure to retain them, when adminis- tered by the moutli, we can often advantageously employ them by injection. Among the most distressing symptoms are nausea and vomit- ing. Rest to the stomach—the use of small doses of morphine —of prussic acid—of creosote, one drop every hour or two— of solution of camphor in chloroform, (ounce for ounce,) in two drop doses, every hour, given in mucilage—of acetate of lead—of carbonic acid—minim doses of muriatic or nitro- muriatic acid—rubefacients or epispastics to epigastrium—and, finally, the endermic or hypodermic application of opium or its salts, are among the means best calculated to afibrd relief. Many recommendations have been made as to the proper treatment in black vomit. In this event, let the stomach aloae^ 80 far as ingesta are concerned. Digestion is checked, and probably absorption is impossible. The exceptional cases of recovery, after this symptom, are due to non medicinal in- fluences. It would be useless to devote especial consideration to the subject of prophylaxis, after what has already been said con- cerning the etiology. The predisposing causes, and those which we call exciting, as far as we know, have been men- tioned. Do what is possible to escape their influences. For the Committee, John T. Mktoalfio, M. D.it 1SANITARY COMMISSION. ON HEMOERHAGE FEOM WOUNDS, AND THE BEST MEANS OF ARRESTING IT. BY VALENTINE MOTT, M. D., LL. D., BMERITUS PROFESSOR OF SURGERY AND SURGICAL ANATOMY IK THE UNIVERSITT OF NEW YORK, ETC., ETC. NEW YORK: ANSON D. F. RANDOLPH, No. 770 BROAD WAT. 1865.The attention of the Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution, among the medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying, in a condensed form, the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and sur- gical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, therefore, of chiei practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper on " Hemorrhage from Wounds^ and the best means of arresting it,'''' belongs to this series, and the name of its distinguished author renders it unnecessary for the Commission to recommend it to the Army. FRED. LAW OLMSTED. Secretary. New York, August 15th, 1863.DIAGRAM 3.(3) ON HEMOERHAGE FROM WOUNDS, AND THE BEST MEANS OF ARRESTING IT. Ter sese attollens cubitoquc nnnixa levavit, Tor revoluta toro est occuHsque crrantibus alto Qiiasivit Ccelem lucem ingemuitque repcrta. Thrice Dido tried to raise her drooping liead, And fainting thi-ice fell groveling on the bed.—Dryden. This beautiful description of the death of the Tjrean queen by hemorrhage is as true to nature, to-day, as it was two thousand years ago. The successive periods of syncope and of recovery, are so admirably depicted that we almost wonder why the ancients, though they knew nothing of the circulation of the blood, did not proceed a single step, and discover that the paroxysms of faint- ing were immediately due to the sese attollens^'' the erect posture, and the consequent deiicient supply of blood to the brain. And yet, simple and true as this law of nature ever has been and still is, I fear that thousands of poor soldiers in our armies are annually losing their lives from its violation, through the mis- taken kindness of their friends. When a wounded soldier faints, his companions are too apt to leave the ranks and place him in the sitting position, sprinkle him with water, and endeavor by all the means in their power to excite him to consciousness. In this way syncope that might be only temporary, is many times rendered permanent and fatal; for the formation of a clot in the wound, which is the man's only hope of stopping the flow of blood, is thus prevented, and the hemorrhage increased through acceleration of the circula- tion. If he were allowed to remain in the recumbent position, the coagulum which nature provides would prove an obstacle to the further loss of blood. Were a little useful knowledge of thisi ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. kind more generally diffused, what a multitude of lives in the aggregate might be saved ! It is true, notwithstanding all that has been done bj the very admirable surgical and sanitary departments of our immense army, that many soldiers still perish on the field of battle from hemorrhage, or are so much reduced as to preclude their subse- quent recovery. Humanity and, patriotism are deploring, with more than ordinary sorrow, this waste of precious human life, and I have thought, that if some means were taken to disseminate among the of&cers and men a little rudimentary knowledge of where to apply constriction to the limbs for arresting hemor- rhage from wounds, and perhaps to provide them with some simple and cheap means of doing this, no injury could result to any per- son, and this great cause of mortality might be to some extent diminished. Of the various forms of death, that by hemorrhage is to our natural instincts one of the most appalling. The associations are all of them revolting—suggestive of the shambles. The glaze of the eye, the ashen hue of the countenance, the cold dewy perspiration, and, withal, the nauseous odor of gore, are sufficient to carry an instinctive shudder to the stoutest heart. To these is added the pain of the wound, and as long as that wound remains open and ready to bleed, though reaction may come on and restore the sufferer to consciousness and life, it is only to experience again the same horrors—the agonies of suc- cessive deaths, until Nature fails, and the imprisoned spirit takes its final flight. My heart sinks, to think how many of our noble Volunteers have passed through these portals in the dark and chilly night after the battle, with no friend near to aid or even pity them, yet fearlessly and bravely have passed through into the regions of immortality beyond 1 The means of arresting hemorrhage, before the introduction of the practice of tying arteries by the celebrated Pare in the fore part of the sixteenth century, were of the most rude and cruel kind, such as the actual cautery with red-hot iron, and the appli- cation of boiling pitch to the bleeding surface. It is certain that this great and good man could have had no idea of the circulationON HEMORRHAGE PROM WOUNDS. 5 of the blood ; how it goes out from the heart to the extremities in throbbing arteries, which hold their course deep within the flesh along the bones, and how, to complete the cii'cuit, it re- turns in the more superficial blue and pulseless veins; for all this was discovered by Harvey at a later period. But without this knowledge Pare, inspired with the progressive spirit of true genius, ventured to apply a ligature to the point from which the spirting jet issued, and the success of his method proved perfect. By it he secured all the advantages of the old practice with haemostatics, without their cruelty, uncertainty and incompeten- cy. He made a great advance in surgical art, and,' so great did his fame become, that his presence was sufficient to inspirit desponding armies. At one time, when the garrison of a beleagured city were about to surrender, it became known to them that this great surgeon was among them, and the fact encouraged the soldiers to such continued resistance as in the event proved successful;—so much did these soldiers fear death from hemorrhage, and so great was their confidence in the power of this man to staunch the flow of blood. Of a like nature is the influence of every surgeon on the men placed in his care, and in this way is the surgeon one of the most important of officers in sustaining the morale of a force. It is a mistake to assume that there is little or no danger of hemorrhage from gun-shot wounds. Wounds of the large arte- ries of the legs and arms from balls and fragments of shells, punctured or incised, always bleed more or less at the time of reception, and more freely as the shock to the nervous system passes off and reaction comes on. Even where this nervous shock is not sufficient to produce immediate death, the chances for ulti- mate recovery most frequently turn on the mere question of loss of blood. Surely, then, any knowledge which it is possible to =inpart to the ofBicers and men, which will be of service to them in that critical moment, when the wound is received, and no sur- geon is present to give them attention, should be freely bestowed. In the progress of the present war, cases are continually occur- ring which, exemplify too plainly the truth of these remarks. At Antietam two young brothers stood .side by side in the ranks of our army, and together bravely fell, the one pierced by a Minnie ball6 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. through the lungs, and the other wounded in the thigh by a frag- ment of shell. He who was shot through the lungs still survives to reveal the horrors of the ensuing night, and relate the story of the tragic death of his brother, who was wounded in the thigh, by re- peated hemorrhages from the femoral artery, which the two togeth- er were unable to control. When the survivor recounted to me the experience of that fatal night, and told me how his brother bled and fainted, and rallied, and bled, and fainted and rallied again, his bosom overflowed with grief, and his eyes became suf- fused with tears. But his bitterest sorrow was because he knew that, with the proper means, he might have arrested the hem- orrhage, and thus given his brother a chance for his life. Such instances as these are not isolated, but are continu- ally occurring. In another case which came to my knowledge, the inside of the arm was torn away by a shell, and the man died during the following night from loss of blood while l3Mng on the field of battle. Even as this paper is being prepared, the second officer of one of our vessels of war has fallen a victim to hemor- rhage from the loss of a leg below the knee by a cannon shot, which hemorrhage occurred while removing him from the deck to the cabin of the vessel. Nor does there seem to be anything wonderful in this, when we remember that the whole circuit of the circulation is performed in but a few minutes. Of the different methods of arresting hemorrhage which have had their place in history, such as the use of hjBmostatics, charms and liquids that would decompose the blood, none of them are worthy of notice when compared with the grand principle of stopping the effusion of blood by mechanical constriction of the artery which supplies that fluid—constriction either in the wound itself or at some part between the wound and the heart. All the anatomical knowledge which is strictly necessary for effecting such compression, may be acquired by both officers and men from the accompanying diagrams, and this knowledge is of such a nature that I think it may be readily understood, and will not be easily forgotten. We must remember that each limb, be it an arm or leg, L"* supplied with blood by one main artery, which pulsates like that of the wrist, and whose pulsation may be felt in theON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. 7 same way that the pulse is felt at the wrist, when we use sufficient force with the fingers to press the artery down upon the bone in any part of its course. In this way it is that the supply of blood to the limbs may be at any time summarily stopped, and, as a consequence, bleeding of wounds of the arms and legs speedily arrested. As there is but one great arterial bloodvessel in the arm above the elbow, and but one of account in the thigh above the knee, it is most convenient to arrest the supply of blood to the limbs by applying the constric- tion at some point of the thigh or upper arm, even though the wound from which the hemorrhage occurs should be of the foot or hand. For these reasons also, it is only necessary to call the attention of the officers and men to the relative positions of the artery and the bone in these two regions, that is in the upper arn^, and in the thigh, to enable them to understand and put in practice in case of necessity the Tourniquet, one of the greatest inventions of modern times. I would especially advise Captains and Lieuten- ants of companies to make themselves familiar with the practice of arresting the circulation in these two regions by practicing at their leisure upon themselves and on the men. The elements of Anatomical Science should be more diffused amongst the people. So little is this kind of knowledge generally known, that a Captain of the army of the Potomac with whom I was lately conversing, expressed surprise when I informed him, that the main artery of the lower limb passed down in front along the groin, as he had always supposed it to be somewhere in the back part of the limb. At my request, in the sitting position as he was, he placed the ball of his thumb on the upper part of his groin and bearing firmly down, compressed the artery upon the bone beneath it, until he stopped its pulsations; thus gaining knowledge which may yet be of the greatest service to him, and knowledge of which I would that every soldier of my country, who is liable to die by hemorrhage on the battle-field, might be possessed. It was by possessing such knowledge as this, that an intimate and valued friend of mine, a distinguished British officer, succeeded in sav- ing his own life. He had lost a leg below the knee, from a cannon shot, and was bleeding profusely, but succeeded in8 ON nEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. binding his sash so tightly about the stump as to arrest the ilow. Bj reference to the first diagram it will be seen, that the great artery which supplies the arm with blood, passes out from the chest under the collar bone, and over the first rib. At the crossing of the artery over the first rib, Surgeons, when about to amputate at the shoulder joint, arrest the circulation, by pressing down upon the artery from above and behind the collar bone, at about its centre, with some smooth flat substance which will readily indent the flesh, such as the ring of a door-key. But it is hardly to be supposed that unprofessional persons without experience should succeed at this obscure point; and, as bleed- ing from wounds in the armpit is the only accident to which this treatment is ever applied, I will rather presume the process to be impracticable to the uninitiated, and direct the wound itself to be immediately filled with some substance, such as a portion of the shirt or other clothing, and constriction applied directly to the source of the flowl The highest point of the arm then to which we will consider the Tourniquet applicable, is the axilla or armpit, and here it is to be applied with the pad directly over the wound, with or with- out other filling, and tightened over the top of the shoulder until the hemorrhage is arrested. By referring to the diagram again, we shall see that the artery, after leaving the arm-pit, passes down along the inner side of the arm, winding forward, until at the bend of the elbow we find it occupying the centre of the front of the arm, directly under the veins where the operation of blood-letting is usually performed, which is the lowest limit of the region for the application of the Tourniquet in the superior extremity. Here the pulsation of the artery may be readily felt in the human body by pressing upan it with the points of the fingers. If we divest the superior extremity of clothing, and lay a piece * of twine with one end over the middle of the collar bone, and the other over the centre of the space in front of the elbow, this line will mark out the position of the brachial artery; and in thin persons pulsation may be felt along its whole course. The pad of the Tourniquet may be applied to any portion of this line andON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. .9r when sufficient pressure is made, the arteiy will be forced down upon the bone, and the circCilation controlled, which will be indi- cated by the suppression of the pulse at the wrist. It is better to apply the Tourniquet above the elbow, even in wounds of the hand or forearm, as the artery divides at the elbow and its branches are also more protected from the proper pressure of the instrument by the presence of two bones. But if the hemorrhage still continue after the application of the Tourniquet to the upper part of the arm, I would fill the wound and apply pressure immediately to the bleeding surface. The second diagram is intended to show the course of the great artery of the thigh from the centre of the groin, where it leaves the cavity of the abdomen, down to the centre of the hollow space behind the knee The pulsation of this artery in the groin may be distinctly felt with the fingers or ball of the thumb, when the thigh is bent towards the body, by pressing in the groin about half-way between the point of the hip-bone and the centre of the body. The pressure must be sufficient to reach the bone beneath, and varied a little along the course of the bone, until the artery is detected. This is the highest position in the inferior extremity to which the Tourniquet can be applied in wounds of the groin, and in such cases it is generally necessary, from the profuse hem- orrhage, also to stuff the wound. I would do all that was possible by either or both methods to stop the loss of blood. Where the wound is very high, the band of the Tourniquet may be allowed to pass around the hips, placing the pad over the stuf- fing of the wound. No harm can come from the trial, though it is very difficult to control the artery by any instrumental means at this point. . .. . ' The lowest point of the inferior extremity to which it is cus- tomary to apply the Tourniquet, is the popliteal space behind the knee. If the leg be bent nearly to the thigh, and the ends of the fingers pressed between the two lines of the cords, in the space behind the knee, so as to bear upon the bone, the pulsation of the artery will be distinctly felt at this point, and by sufficient force may be arrested. In fact, this is one of the most convenient placesfor applying the Tourniquet whenwe are allowed our choice, as the broad extremity of the thigh-bone forms an admirable10 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. support, and the hollow space secures a fixed position of the pad. Having discovered the artery then,-at these two points, namely, near the centre of the groin above, and in the centre of the space behind the knee below, it only remains to join the two by a line which will pass from the pubic bone down along the inside of the thigh bone, gradually winding backward until it is directly behind at the knee. The pulsations of the artery may be easily detected through this entire route in thin persons, but its path is not so readily discovered as that of the main artery of the arm. To any portion of this region the Tourniquet may be applied with the pad over the artery, and sufficient pressure will arrest the current of the circulation, and prevent bleeding from a wound below. ' If the location of the wound should be such as to allow us a choice of places, it is customary to prefer a point about one- third of the way from the knee, as the artery is here more close to the bone. To wounds penetrating the three great cavities of the body, that is of the chest, head and abdomen, the Tourniquet is not ap- plicable. Such wounds should be left open for the escape of blood, as the accumulation of clots in either of these cavities soon leads to fatal results. Hence all the anatomical knowledge that is requisite for the successful use of the Tourniquet, is in fact con- veyed in what has been said of the regions of the upper arm and thigh. Having this knowledge, any person on the field of battle may pick up a stone of the size of a hen's egg, and place it over the main artery of the arm, secure it by tying with a handkerchief or sash, and exert pressure by passing a bit of stick through over the stone, and taking a turn or two until the pulsation at the wrist ceases, or the bleeding is controlled. And the same may be effected in the inferior extremity by the same means, using of course if convenient a stone somewhat larger for the pad, and feeling just back of the inner ankle for the pulse to determine when the circulation is controlled. In the most primitive form of Tourniquet the band made two turns around the limb, and was knotted over the artery. The stone was placed under the inner turn of the band, wliile the11 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. Stick was passed through under the outer turn only, that is, under the knot and over the stone. The arrangement was then tight- ened by twisting with the stick. In another form the stone was enclosed in the center of a shawl or large handkerchief, which was folded diagonally and passed twice around the limb, and the free corners then knotted over the stone. Torsion was then made with a stick. In the early part of the last century, Petit, a French surgeon, improved these simple devices by adding a screw, with which to force the pad down upon the artery, thus giving to the instrument the form in which it is now most frequently used. In his Tour- niquet, the apparatus for tightening the band consists of two plates, which are placed over the artery, and separated by means of a screw. Since the time of Petit, there have been suggested various modifications in the form of the instrument, such as making the band of a hoop of iron or brass, to relieve from pressure the sides of the limb; giving the threads of the screw a steep inclination, to secure rapidity of action; or making the threads of the screw to wind in opposite directions on different portions of the same spindle, to attain the same result: but, in the main features, all these instruments are essentially the same. But, however desirable the screw and plates may be as an ap- paratus for tightening the band, they are not always to be obtained. Their weight and bulk, and complicated nature, operate to pre- Tent their presence on the field of battle, and thus to limit their use to the practice of medical men. And the objection to the French Tourniquet is, that its appli- cation requires the assistance of a second person, while, for mili- tary and naval purposes, the instrument which can be applied by the wounded man himself must ever have the preference. To meet these special requirements, a number of instruments have been contrived in different countries. That of Dr. Lambert, of this country, is very good; but the one invented by my son. Dr. Alexander B. Mott, is more simple in construction, more neat, and compact, and portable, and is the one we prefer. It is emi- nently fitted for military and naval practice, and well adapted to the walks of private life.ON HEMORBHAGE FROM WOUNDS. 12 One great excellence of this instrument is, that it can be ap- plied by the wounded man himself. Its cheapness is another of its good qualities, as the cost will not exceed fifty cents; thus placing it within the reach of every private soldier as well as ever}' officer in the army, who may desire its pro- tection. Diagrams Nos. 3 and 4 represent this instrument and illustrate its modes of application.* • . * The following letter from my son gives a full account of the construction of this instrument and its application :— 209 Tenth Street, New York, May 24th, 1863. Dear Father :—Believing that the tourniquet which I send you, has numerous advantages over all other instruments of the kind now in use, I beg you will give it a trial, and if it meet your approval it will afford me pleasure to see it adopted by you, and recommended to the profession. As you will notice, its construction is very simple, and its application not complicated—it can easily be repaired by any ordinary mechanic. Another good quality which it possesses is, that it may be cleansed with water, without fear of rust or injury to any of its component parts. It is composed of steel plates, the anterior one 5^ inches long, having a wooden pad (grooved or smooth) permanently attached ; transversely to its centre by two (2) screws ; the ends of the plates thrown up from the centre so as to form wings, and having at- tached to either end ordinary buckles secured by copper rivets through a piece of webbing. The posterior plate 5^ to to 5 inches long is of the same material and some- what of the same shape, having but one point of pressure, the centre ; at each ex- tremity is riveted apiece of webbing 12 inches long. The mode of application I believe would present itself to the mind of any casual olpserver, and therefore needs but little explanation. .. Either strap is to be passed around the limb (arm or leg) and through the 'buckles, thus securing it, care being taken to place the posterior plate on the op- posite side of the limb to the anterior one ; the wooden pad is then to be placed over the artery to be compressed, and either or both strajjs drawn sufficiently tight to obstruct the current of blood through the vessel. Having furnished a sample of this Tourniquet about two mouths since to Brigadier General W. A. Hammond, Surgeon General U. S. Army, I am happy to say that it met with his approval, and I trust will find its way into the ai-my, as I believe it fulfils all the requirements of a field Tourniquet, being portable, less complicated than any now in use, and readily applied with one hand by a wounded soldier upon himself. . , • . . . •» I likewise claim for it the important advantage of arresting hemorrhage inON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. is Before closing this article, perhaps it ina}'- be proper say that some objections have been urged to the general use of the Tour- niquet hy unprofessional persons. It is alleged that the in- strument might be placed on the wrong side of the wound, and in this way do more harm than good. But this objection answers itself, as the most ignorant operator would immediately change the position of the instrument when he found the hemorrhage increased. Another objection which we more frequently hear is that a swelled or puffy condition of the limb is produced by the constriction of the Tourniquet when long applied, rendering it more difficult for the surgeon to perform the subsequent opera- tions of amputation, or the securing of vessels. But we must remember that in most cases the subsequent operations will even- tually be performed above the wound, and so also above the Tourniquet, where swelling and infiltration do not occur. But :his objection also answers itself in a practical way, for some sort of constriction will probably be applied, as there are no men who would prefer to bleed to death rather than impose a difficult* operation on the surgeon. A third objection, and one which appears at first sight more plausible than those just mentioned, is, that mortification and the death of the limb would be induced by leaving the Tourniquet too long in position. But, I cannot conceive of any military necessity for keeping the circulation suppressed by the Tourniquet more than an hour or two; and yet I have seen the circulation as completely abrogated as it can be by means of this instrument for a number of hours at a time without unfavorable results. Nor have I, in any case of practice, judicious or injudicious, ever seen any bad cases of wounds of arteries, without interrupting the collateral circulation in the limb to which it may be applied ; thus allowing reaction to take place, and the removal from the field, of wounded, for many miles before surgical interference is necessary. This instrument was made under my direction by Messrs. Tieman & Co. of this city. Your afifectionate son, ALEX. B. MOTT, M. D., Prof, of Surgical Anatomy, and Surgeon U. S. Vols. Prof. Valentine Mott, M. D., New York.14 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. effects follow the continued application of the Tourniquet, that could be fairl}'' and truly attributed to that instrument. It is true that many of the severely wounded, after some days, will die of typhoid symptoms, which are attributed to phlebitis and pyemia but I choose rather to perceive the primary cause of death in such cases, to be very generally an excessive loss of blood at the time of receiving the wound, or the repeated occurrence of secondary hemorrhage. But if all these objections were cogent and true, they amount to nothing when brought into conflict with that great law of the medical profession, which directs and determines all our art, namely, to prolong life for any time, however short, by any means, however expensive. " Sire,^' said the great Baron Larrey, with unswerving integrity, to the first Napoleon on a memorable occasion, at the siege of Jaffa, "/< is my avocation to prolong human life, and not to destroy it.'''' So, in any case of serious hemorrhage, contingencies, remote and uncertain, are not to be taken into the account, but the urgent necessities of the moment are to be met at once, by measures the most convenient and effective. Even in those cases where ultimate death is inevitable, it is better to prolong life for a time than to see the patient helplessly perish in our hands; and I believe that, in any case of hemorrhage, it is better to suffer the temporary evils of the Tourniquet, than to permit any serious loss of blood, and consequent shock to the nervous system. Many of the low forms of fever that prevail in hospitals have their origin in the debility which has been produced by hemorrhage from wounds. The immediate effects of loss of blood upon the nervous system are very apparent, in that suspension of the faculties of the mind which is known as fainting, and from which the per- sons, in most cases, soon recover. But where hemorrhage is ex- cessive in the first instance, or frequently recurs, a permanent affection of the nervous sys|.em is induced, indicated by a flutter- ing pulse, pain in the head, flushed face, ringing in the ears, irri- tability of the stomach, and other symptoms of typhoid fever. It is to the nervous system that we must look for any explana- tion of the intermitting and remitting character of fevers, or even those slight remissions that attend fevers in their most continued4 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. 15 forms. For the nervous system is the only system in which regular remissions constantly recur. I believe that the lesions that are now discovered after death from fevers, are rathei- the effects than the cause of the disease; and that if we shall ever become able to inspect the nervous system in the same clear and conclusive way that we now examine other organs of the body, in post-mortem cases, this doctrine will be conclusively established. In diseases of the brain, depletion affects the nervous system more promptly than any other agent; and, in the same way, ex- cessive loss of blood produces those low forms of typhoid disease which have their origin and seat in the nervous system. Let the Tourniquet then be applied to prevent the subsequent occur- rence of pyemia and typhoid fever. There is another advantage which would be gained by the general introduction of the Tourniquet among the troops, which is too important to pass unnoticed. It is the moral courage and confidence which the possession of this instrument would give the soldiers. We have seen that in some cases men dread the manner of death more than death itself, and that, in general, death by hemor- rhage is regarded with rhost horror. We have seen that it was by possessing the power to control hemorrhage, that Pare infused a brave spirit into the French troops. So the possession of a Tourni- quet by any soldier who feels competent to use it, supports his cour- age, and he feels that if wounded in the service of his country, his blood will not be needlessly wasted. In this way, slight material causes frequently give rise to extensive moral and political results, and I hope this simple instrument, which I recommend, may not only save the lives of many individual soldiers, but, by increasing the confidence of the troops, in some measure may contribute to the final success of our arms ; and it is with these views that I have devoted the necessary time and labor to the production of this monograph, though at a period of life when men naturally incline toward repose. « But in this great struggle whatever is left of my da3^s is at the disposal of my country, whether it be with the sword, or with the knife, or with the pen—on the field of battle, in the hospital, or at home. The lapse of years is beginning to admonish me, that what16 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. more I have to say or do for my fellow men must be said or done quickly. And if the exigencies of this conflict should require it, I am ready not only to sustain our army with words of fortitude and hope, but again to don the harness, and make one more cam- paign of active service in the cause of my country, and devote to her whatever remains of the autumn of my life with its autumnal fruits.1 8 63. SANITARY COMMISSION. 8. HINTS FOR THE CONTROL AND PREVENTION OF IN CAMPS, TIUNSPORTS, AND HOSPITALS. NEW YORK: Wir. C. Bryant & Co., Printers, 41 Nassau Street, corner of Liberty.The attention of the Sanitary Commission has been directed to the fact, that most of our Army Surgeons, now in the field, are unavoid- ably deprived of many facilities they have heretofore enjoyed for the consultation of standard medical authorities. It is obviously impossible to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. The only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among the medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying in a condensed form the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical questions which are likely to present themselves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and whicK are, therefore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our principal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names are the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper comprising '■'■Hints for the Control and Pre- ■vention of Infectious Diseases in Camps, Transports, and Hospitals,''^ prepared by a member of the Commission, belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by the Commission to the Army. J. FOSTER JENKINS, M. D., Secretary. New York, October, 1863.Ijints for tlje Control aui) llrrbnitioit OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES IX CAMPS, TRAXS- POETS, AXD HOSPITALS. Tlie diseases that owe tlieir orio-iu and difFusion to specific Preveminn of > . , , , . , , . infecious discas- intectious poisons, tlion^'h coini:iaratively lew in nnniber, esi^c-cinny im- ■■■ 1 p ^ portant in armies are the most trouhlesome and fatal that can afnict an army. Often liave great forces been crippled, and the objects and hopes of many a campaign liave been defeated by such dis- eases; while not unfrocjuently tlie same silent enemies of military rpiartei's, camps and transports, have humbled tlie proudest armies, and brought thousands of brave men to their graves, even after their arms had achieved success in the field. Tlie occurrence of small pox, measles, epidemic dysentery, ^'''^'^^ mnu<]\M ' 'J- "J ' are piiriicularly and typhus, in camps, barracks, or transports, and the prev- to be aieaded. alence of these diseases, together Avitli gangrene and otlier infections in military hospitals, are calamities that deeply concern all persons who are responsible for the welfare of the soldier, or the efficiency of the national forces: and as it has been demonstrated by repeated observations and varied experience, that such diseases owe their diffusion and en- They owe ti>eii- demic pi'evalence to hygienic neglect, and tliat pi'oper ITeJifneg'iec"''*' sanitary measures will not only tend to limit and prevent the prevalence of such infectious and contagious nudadics, but urea tlie uiilidote. will also dimhiish the severity of other diseases, every mili- ary officer needs to have a practical comprehension of the6 paper. Every military s])ccial lucasnrcs veqiured for sanitary protection under tlie oflicer should un- 1 J- ■' i- ^ derstnn,! uie vurious circiunstanccs of exixj.sure to disease, and to tlie Ijliciiuon of sucli i J ^ mettsurcs. inconveuiences of ariny life. With this view, Ave suhmit tlie following j/;mc^/c«Z hmts iij)o)i the meam of arresting and Design of ^'^''^ 2)reventing the ])revalcnce of infectious diseases in camjys, hoTacIcs, iransjjoj'ts, and hospitals. The infectious maladies to A\'liich we shall particularly allude, are among the most strongly characterized of tlie zymotic diseases, and, with the exception of a single group, the specific poisons upon which they respectively depend infecHoiis d?"eas- are imquestiouaLly capable of being communicated fi'om es, how coinniiin- , • i , • ji , i A i • ,i icaied, and iiow tlic porsous siclv to pcrsous uninlectccl. And m the excep- transporled. -, . ctit tionai group, m which we place certain very tatal maladies, the infecting poison is, in some instances, susceptible of trans- portation by porous substances, or vessels with contaminated air, acting as the media or vehicles of such transmission or transportation. But, without entering upon elaborate de- Every infec- finitions, it is sufficiciit that we comprehend the fact that tious disease de- ' -L pends upon spe-eygj.y infectious disease depends practically uiion certain cial conditiona ■' i J. ./ I d!irusio''a"^"^specific conditions for its activity, and for the communica- tion or spread of its infectious cause, whether to individuals Those condi- Or commuiiities. The most essential of these conditions are tions are wilhiii • .i 'ii'i ji ^ . ^ human control, primarily withm human control, and to such conditions only does the design of this paper permit us to refer. But "we do not lose sio-ht of the fact that there sometimes exist general epidemic influences, the nature and cause of Avhich are not fully comprehended or controlled by science, and Epidemic influ- , ^ • -< • •^ i i ' ^ • n «nce. that diseases which primarily depend upon such mtiuences, may not at all times be completel_y submissive to human agency. But there is good reason for believing that the „, , .. material agencies by Avhich even the most epidemic tvpes The localizing ~ •' ..... causes of epidem- of discasc are localized and rendered positively 'infectious, i<; diseases to be i. i/ i vented"''''^"''"' ^^"^^3' ^'^ coutrollcd, anticipated, and prevented, by properly directed sanitary measures. As it is the sole design of this ]iaper to set forth in a prac- tical way the fiacts upon Avhich efiectual measures may vca- obje'aof^'ihis'pa' sonably be based for controlling the infections maladies P"'' that most afflict armies and recruits, vcc propose to give to these facts the plainest possible statement, without referencer to tlieorctical and mooted questions. And tlie puvnosc of "^^^'^ innts to these pages M-ill be fully attained, if they furnish such'" ""e'miiuary tnneJ}' and practical suggestions as the hygienic exigencies of liospitals and crowded military cjuarters continually de- mand. ClaasiScalioti e puipuse The seyeral diseases to which particular reference will be m,- 2. made, in these pages, may, for the practical ends we liaye °^ in yiew, be considered in three classes, yiz: Small-Pox, ) Kixinf/n'mcUou-s coniag'ions; spread hj Measles, j- covivvunimtion vn 'h. the diseasedjJerson, ScAELATixA, ) —mediately^ or immediately. Class I. Typhus Feyee, Hospital Gangrene, Ekysipelas, Contingenily contagions and infec- tious diseases ; ijerpetuated and sjjread hoth hy jpersomd and en- demic conditions of hygienic ne- glect. Class n. Typhoid Feyee, Asiatic Ciioleea, Yelloav Feyee, Endemic infections^ caused and ])er- jpetuated hy external ^ocalirdng con- ditions • and diffused as xoell as localized hy the neglect of jyersonal and local hygienic measures. Class in. Tlie exanlhem- atous diseases. Domes'c quar- antiue or isola- tion. The First Class comprises the more important ex- anthematous infections. It is conceded that all these, as personally communicable poisons, or contagions, are suscept- ible of limitation and control by means of domestic or per- sonal isolation of the sick, and of the things and places in- fected by them ; but experience shows that such isolation, to be clfectiye, especially if in the presence of strongly local- izing conditions, or epidemic influences, must be yigilautly The more im- aud intelligently managed. Though the essential i)rimary caHJing"''rn'd causes of the exanthematons feyers are yet unknown, Aye ces''e?i'l may, for all practical purposes, regard it as an ultimate fact that iJiey are spread Ijy communication with the infected n^ie'^conil°^ms and sichp>-^"^ons,—mediately or immediately. "'^8 t^inaTI-j)<>x.—The facts rclatini;' ti; this most coiita<riou3 ^ciioMmaii'"'ji'N-inalady are too well understood to need any statement of Kiiii's discovery. t • i i i i tlieni m this paper. It is the most strongly marked type of specific poisons, and tlie certainty of its contagious cpiality, and tlie liability of its infectious diffusion, made it the scouro-e of the ci\'iHzed world until Jenxkr discovered the prophylactic power of vaccinia or the eo\v-]:)Ock. vaccinaiinnand I'lie value of vaccinatiou in armies has been Inciillv sot iis value in ar- _ _ •• ""i^s. forth, and in a very practical manner enforced, in a special report or monograph upon the subject ^Medical Docunieni^ E\ by a committee of associate members of the Sanitary Kcpori of Profs. Comniission. Cordiall y commending to surgeons and com- Smiih and suuo. inaudiuo; ofBcers that valuable embodiment of information upon the subject of vaccination and the protection it affords, we will here quote the concluding sentences of that report: Conclusions of " Ist. That primary vaccination is a positive protection, tiiatieport. witliiu ccrtaiu limits, agalust small-pox. 2d. That there is a period of life when that influence declines, and that the history of epidemics teaches that small-pox will attack a variable proportion of the vaccinated if exposed to its influence. 3d. That the mere j)OssibU 'dy of such a de- cline renders reprotection necessary, -ith. That in re-vac- cination we have an almost infiillible restorer of that protec- tion and preventive of the spread of variolous epidemics. Hence, that re-vaccination in all bodies exposed to variolous contagion is im2)eratively demanded. 6th. That the opera- tions of A'accination and re-vaccination are unattended with danger to those subjected to them. The committee Avould therefore earnestly recommend that the SanitaiT Com- mission make such representation to the pi-oj)or antliorities as M'ill secui'e the re-vaccination of all soldiers wIk.) cannot pi'ove its performance upon them within the i)revions five years ; and that ai'rangements be made b,y which g()od vaccine vims may be distributed by their agents to the medical officers."' [Signed.'] Fkancis G. S^rrrn, M.D., Cli'n. Ai.i'KKi) Stili.e, ]\I.D.9 Tinporativc the diUy i^; that cvciy soldiei' and every peivou cm[)h)yed in the anuj sliould l)e pi-otectcd l)y vaci-i- natioii, that duty lias been and Avill continue to he bo frequently nei'decled and so nin\'lial)ly executed, that officers Thedniyof vnc- , ' ciniiiint' 'i|>t m lie in cliar2,-c ot troops—especiallv if tliey be recruits fresldy ■I'-s-'iecMm-caii- li-dui the rural districts—Avill need to be watchful aicaiust the outbreaks of small-pnx, and to l.ie prepared promptly to p„ ics or tiie institute effectual measures, not only of domestic rpiarantine for infected persons and things, but of such thorough re- examination and re-vaccination as may l)c found necessaiy for the po'nuanent ]»rotection of all from the variolous in- fection. However thoi'ough may Inive been the prcvi(jns constantwatch- inspections and A'accinations m a given company or corp.-, hh; uppeaiance the possibility of some defects in such duty, as well as the ° probabilities of the presence of new and unprotected persons, ]-eiider it expedient to repeat such measures. To officers in charge of recruits tor the armv, we earnestly importance or " . ' early vnccinaiiim recommend that, at the earliest practicalde hour after reach- of i-'.-cruUs. ing the lirst place of rendezvous, all men in their care be eti'ectually protected by vaccination. (Tcneral sanitary measures, and the isolation or domestic „."?",^:,''r *j ' of specml sum- quarantine of patients and their clothing, should apply alike ["''■*'p,4ve"'t'""he to small-pox, measles, scarlatina,, and other febrile conta- a'^'i;','if,,'a^^^^ gions ; and, n(»twitlistanding the fact that certain epidemic inlluences may prevail, it is not the less true that intelli- gent]}' directed sanitary measures against tl e s{)urces of these nuisances are sure to be rewarded with good results. The value of such measures against fijphiiK and (jdnf/rene are popularly (-(jnccded, and the f )llowing cases will serve to illustrate the imi)ortance and utilitv of specific measures to Extensiverrev- ' ■ t alence oT uoih limit the prevalence of exantheinatous diseases in camps : smaii-p..x ,in,i A short time ]irevious to the battle of Chancellorsville, the ime"'in uieiieu. regiment of Maine volunteers had in hospital and upon its sick list, npAvards of eighty cases of small-pox. The same regiment liad thirty men sick with measles at one time on its hospital roll at Antietam a few days subsecpient to the u-rcat battle there, in Seiiteniber, 1S02. Orders for ' . . ^ . • • i.1 1'''^ results or transportation, from its first remlezvous, to jom the army neKic-ciint,' sani- , ^ • • i ' measures. were recei\-cd while the measles were beginning to ajipear in one company. No timely and effectual measures were10 iiistiluted to pi'cvcnt the iiitrodnctioii or to limit tlie diffu- sion of either of those infections, and as a consequence, many lives Averc sacrificed, and the military effectiveness of the regiment has thereby been nearly destroyed. In the month of December, 1862, a first-class new regi- i.KUe'\t'new1"i- i"'^ent arrived in Xew York, roide to the seatof wai-, from c".iiz'i',lg"''Jondi- i*^s rendezvous in Massachusetts. A case of scarlatina stray the corps!''' ajDpcared during the trip hither. The men were assigned to close and insalubrions quarters in the lofts of a "warehouse in this city. The cases of scarlatina continued to multiply from day to day and from week to week, until nearly two hundred cases had occurred, and until one of the most pro- mising regiments ever organized had become so broken Die jlrenglli of doAvn by this cause that the dead, together Avitli dischai'ged (lie command . ,. , -, ft p n hopelessly lost mvaiids, ainot^ntcd to an aggregate ot nearly two lull com- panies. This regiment left its pestiferous qi7arters in the city, after a detention of about two months, with its military effectiveness diminished, as estimated by its A'eteran colonel, fully thirty 2)CT cent, upon its original strength of one thou- sand men. And it is Avorth}' of mention here that the local other diseases, couditions that had rendered scarlatina so fatally endemic, also prostrated the strength of every man, and induced A^arious inflammatory and tyjjJious maladies Avhich bi'oke doAvn the health and vitjor of men Avho seldom had knoAvu The localizing c;ui?c3 of the en- demic produced Measles infro- gicknCSS prCvioUSly. diiced into four new regime the s^Htne campraent. new ■egimentsat ^^iQ autuniu of 1SG2, four full regimcuts of nine months' men Avere ordered to encamp, Avhile Avaiting transportation, in the An'cinity of the Bay of Ncav York, upon a plaiii that doni'l^*'i'ilJ'^"quar- ^^''^^ already been much used as a camping ground. Measles had already appeared in one of the regiments, and soon the infection had extended to the three other commands. In one regiment only Avas the maladv subjected to an effectual and rigidly enforced domestic quarantine. In that camp the measles ceased Avith the occurrence of the second case. Neglect of such In tlic tlu'ec otlicr camiis no such measures of ■i)ersonal iso- niea^ures result- . ni-i t -i t >t ed ill great losses, hitiou of the sick AA'crc adopted untu upwards oi three hun- dred cases of that disease had occurred. Arrest of scar- Jn fhc caiui) mentioned, Avhere measles Avas arrested, KUum by means ' ' ^ oiiiiesamemeas- the Utility of cHectiial doiiicstic isolatiou for arresting the urcs ihut arrest- ~ ed measles. spread of scarhiliua had been tested in a case of that disease11 ^vlli('ll oceiivred from exposure of one of tlie soldiers who visited tlie infections quarters of the Massacliusetts regiment ■\vliieli we liavc mentioned. In this instance, tlie case of scarlatina was removed a short distance from the lines of the encampment the hour that the evidences of his disease appeared, and a rigid domestic quarantine of the sick man and his clothing was estal)lislied. Ilis nurse was the only other victim of the infection. After a detention of a few weeks, when these four regiments were sent forward to the field, tl le one last mentioned had its lull quota ot men; in uiKse four reg- while the three others had only about tAvo-thirds the number of soldiers who, a few weeks previously, had gone into their encampment in full health—except the single company in which the measles first appeared. "\Ye might add otlier illustrative instances of the pernicious effects of the exanthematons contagions in camps, but they would all tend mei'ely to strengthen this cumulative testi- mony to the hygienic utility and military necessity of special p,.eventive san- restrictive measures for arresting and preventing the spread agafnst'exan'ihe- of this class of diseases. And what is true of exanthematons njc5™ary''Tn''fhe contagions, is practically, though in a modified sense, true of other diseases that depend upon specific and infections poisons. The special sanitary measures, which such poisons require for their control, may all be comprised under the sinqde rule that— T/w immediate sources of infectwts 2yoiso7is shoidd l>e A general rule 7 •7j7_/^ •/'/7 /77 7-' tobc observerl in ]}roperly isolated from umnfeded j^'^'^'som, the locahzing re\:v\m\o Mm- conditions of their endemic])revdlence shoidd he removed^ and every circiimstance that adds to their virulence or tends to give them existence or activity, shoidd le iwevented or con trolled Ijy sanitary measures. The statements and suggestions that follow in these pages Applications of will present practical illustrations and specific applica-'^'^ tioiis of this rule; and the fact will constantly appear that such hygienic measures against infectious poisons and their immediate causes, are also the most effective sanitary works for the general prevention of disease and the improvement of health. lic^garding all cases of infection and contagion, whether13 In rod ion is nn individual or endemic, as preventible evils, it iiiiglit Ije lie utmliniiiilly chiiiued that tliey never should occnir under proper inedieal guardcil iiyftinst. and military administration ; but as SL-KGEox-Gi;Ni:i:Ar. IlAMitoNu has iustly remarked, in his treatise on Military Infection ma,y . , ay t i i i exist under good iryo'iene, cvcu With overy eiiurt dictated by the most management. " ' . • i ' i ■ i- i • thorough accpiaintance witii the science oi Jiygiene, and tlie most conscientious endeavors to discharge faithfully the duties of his office, the medical officer of a hos[)ital will sometimes find diseases originate under his eyes which can only owe their source to infection." Diversity of in- 111 resuming the Consideration of the specific infections, Ind'^ngenderof it is proper to remark in limine, that, in the classificati(jn infection. given ill tliis paper, these poisons may be regarded as having widely diverse causes, operating by means of difi'erent agen- cies, most of which are amenable to hygienic regulations. The immediate '^^^^ cxantliematous poisons, though positively contagious agents are sus- ^^idi transportablc, are measurably suscei^tible of in-eventive cepiible of con- ^ > ./ i i sanitary control; and most other infectious poisons, though more dependent upon contingencies for their operation, and therefore more difficult of such restraint, are not less sub- missive to it when directed by proper intelligence. Aviiy mea.sie3 To siTiall-pox and vaccination is due the separate con- cau'.-^egrealefi'o"'^ sldcration givcii in the monograph [lledical Docur/ienf, smairpo.".'^ """^ to which wc liavc referred. Measles and scarlatina, though less dreaded, are actuall)- the causes of greater danger and loss to the army than small-pox, for much greater numbers of soldiers are liable to the former maladies, and the secpiln3 of those fevers are often fatal, or apt to produce lingering impairment of health. Hence those maladies, though popularly regarded as being simply the inevitable scourges of childhood, do actually demand vigilant measures for their prevention and control in the army. Sanitcmj Ixegtilations for lyreveniinfj iho sjri'ead of the ex- s'lni iheniatons contagions. 1st. Tlie patients and all infected ' things—at least, all the personal clothing Avorn during the ihe exiimlienia- >^ ' I o o tons couia-ioiis. period of cruptioii—should be immediately separated from all persons that are liable to contract or to communicate the contagion; and such domestic or limited quarantine should be Recapitulation of special nieas- Ollih urea for llie sani lai'y control Ibe exantiieiiia13 enforced, as •will insure entire security asiainst its diffusion Personni ifoia- T)()th tlie nurses and the infected clothing' of such })er- quiu-auune. sons should be treated as in quarantine. Purification of persons and places exposed to the infection should be effected by means of Avashino-, and thorouo;li ventilation, while all II- 1 -1 , -,. . p -, , , . Infected per- clothin"'and i)orous materials must be chsnilected bvwashinG;, nn.i i.iiu-es 1 -T 1 . . •11 • '• 1 how tobe ireiilcd. at boiling heat, rt practicable, otherwise by sufhciently pro- tracted ventilation—which, in the case of articles contain- cioUiinR and inated by small-pox, should be aided by fumigations of chloi'ine or bromine. And in case neither a hio-li heat nor strong fumigations of the latter chemicals can be applied specini disin- to such contaminated materials, let them be destroyed by "g'^"'^' fire. Eoiling heat, or high steam, is the surest disinfect- ant of small-pox and all other contagions. Even a tem- perature of 140° F. effectually neutralizes the virus of vac- cinia. The transi)( )rtation of ijatientshavinii' small-pox or measles Ambulances, ^ i tents, and equi- shoiild in all cases, when practical)le, be provided in vehicles j^'j^^'^' exclusively employed for the piir]K)se ; and, in any case Avhere an ambulance or saddle has been used for conveying a small-pox patient or his clothing, it should be placed in cpiarantine mitil properly purified. Tents and erpiipage that have been immediately exjiosed to the cxanthematous infections, should be washed Avith boibng water. It should be borne in mind that a low temperature tends ,i„rs"nlt d'e<n"oy rather to increase than diminish the activity of the exan- "f"cuon's.'' theinatoas poisons and most other febrile contagions. It is only upon the yellow fever miasma, and other infections which depend upon warmth and moisture, that cold acts as a disinfecting agency. Second Class or Ixfectioxs.—Typhus fever, hospital JZ^lZ''"'ll' gangrene, and erysipelas, are here grouped for consideration "j^,^'^of "'^ second as inl'et'tious maladies, and sources of specific poisons that obey similar laws of generation and of prevention, and Avhich also depend upon a given class of hygienic agencies for the mitigation of their activity. No armv surii-eon can be uninformed respectinc; the in- The diingemig ' ^ . . 1 o niilure of these in- fectious nature, and the peculiar activity and perils of this14 Mea ns of pro- class of contagioiis in hospitals and crowded quarters, and si,S"^'uTas even the subordinate officers in wai'ds, andtlie command- stood. iiig officers in mihtary quarters, where any of these diseases are found, ought definitel)' to understand the recjuisite mea- sures for providing sanitary protection against tlieni, the following concise statement is here given, without explana- tion, and at the pleasant risk of recapitulating, in a -s-ery synoptical manner, the special information and hygienic regulations which every medical officer in charge of a mili- The object of tarv liospital may iustly claim as his own. Were an thus statiog what . t . . siuiitary mens- apoloo;v rcciuired lor reiterating such statements ot acceijted ures are required. i o./ x o j. medical knoATledge, or for reducing these statements to aphorisms, we need but refer to the circumstance, " that it stands prominent as a fact in military history, that serious "Contagion" a cvils frequently arise in armies from the ravages of eonta- comingeui evil. . n n j_i j. j_ • • j_' i_ •^ • gious lever; and that, as contagion is a contingent evil, it is obvious to common sense, that the chances which give rise to its action ought to be precluded with every possible Active warfare carc." [Dr. KoET. Jackson 0}i Armtes, J). 3(58.] or^v'^u'^and'^some Ilowcver exccllent the plans providing for medical service eare".^"'^ '° in liospitals and in the field, and however well directed may be the sanitary regulations of great armies, active warfare involves the repeated and almost constant occurrence of con- tingencies that necessitate a choice of evils, and require much exposure to causes of disease. The crowding and ac- infecfiouspoisons cumuhition of meii which occur in Avar, tend to produce and Tverawd i n°g™ perpetuate infectious maladies. Hospitals and transports are frequently overcrowded from the very necessities that war creates; while the regulations of encampments are made to crowd upon given areas populations more dense Kncainpingsoi- thaii cau bc found in any city. Our army regulations permit dieraatthe rate . , . i n /. o/i s«,(K)9 to tiie sq. ci'owdluo; m the ren-imental camp at tJie rate oi SO.OOO men to mile. » o i ' the square mile ; Avhile in hospitals and transports the natural evacuations and bodily excretions, the suppurating wounds, the gangrenous parts, and the uncleansed persons and c-h)t]i- Ppeciai sources iug of vust uumbei's of soUliei's ill an unhealthy condition, of infueiion in i • i . . i i i i *tt i i hospitals and are combined to vitiate the local atiiiospuere. Under sucli Circumstances ot inevitable msakibrity, tlie worst ot ende- mic infections may suddenly sjn'ing into fatal activity, and almost any imported virus of disease will readily become15 localized. It is manifest, tlicreforc, that liyo-ieiiic ineasurcs Tiieresiomtion ? ? o r^^^[ preservation for the control anil the in-evention of infectious contamiua- "f iitmn^pii.nc t imnly the mum tion will mainly consist in sanitary works for the preservation ohii^ct. of atmospheric purity, and for the special restoration of such purity to the places, thiii2:s, and i)ersons contaminated. To be nccom- " . plislieii by the To accomplish this obiect, sanitary science commands the ies<uirces of , . . . . I chemistry, engin- abundant resources of police regulations, eno'lueerinc;, eliem- eeiinir, -Aud saui- ° 5 » tary police. istry and medical science. Localizinq and Endemic Causes of In fections of the , ,.. ./././ Locahzing ana Second Class—Putrid Contaqions.—1. Overcrowdins: and en<iemiHi causea ~ of infection. special hygienic neglect of Avards, barracks, cpiarters, tents, or transports, may justly be regarded as the most active and common localizino- condition, and the chief oriii'inat- , The chief cause ing cause of typhus, and of that state of tlie blood and of typiiusiiover- 1 ■ . 1 T 1 crowding. the nervous system that primarily establishes the gan- "•rcnous process, and renders simple erysiiielas malii>-nant „ ^ i. ' 1 .7 1. .-7 jjo^ <ranf;i'ene and contao-ious. Any ai)artnient or place that has c-enerated ""J erysipelas ^ ^ i 1 o become conlagi- or localized any of these dangerous infections, should, if ""s- practicable, be immediately and entirel}' vacated by all sick and wounded jDersous ; but if such removals are im- ^"^'J^'j"'""'^'^ possible, let there be made the best practicable distri- bution of patients, and election of places and apartments for Distribution of them, and, as a protective measure, let no delay be made in commencing the best methods of purification. These are— 2. Thorough cleansing and ventilation, constantly and rigidly enforced ; JZf:"' 3. The immediate and effectual employment of appropri- ciea''nsin^'.'"°^""^ ate and most available disinfectants. The following are the best: Chemical dis- C'hloriiie and the Alkaline Chlorides, iniectants: T , 1 , \ Nitrous Acid vapor, or „ "■"'^^ ^"'^ In Jiospdal uar(k,\ ' quarters. barracki trMis «Bromine vapor, carefully employed; , ' , / Pc'rnian''anate of Potussa, 1 In solution and ports and con- \ ' ^, Nitrata of Lead, or y upon evapo- (Sulphate of Iron (copperas') ; J rating cloths. Charcoal powders, Gypsum, Quicklime, or Coal liir compounds. Fo,. si^jjg inminaUd quar- ters. For upecial cleansing f _ sauces. crs, sinks (ind external iiui- of latrines, sew- V Coal-tar compounds. Chloride of Lime, J Sulphate of Iron, Charcoal, and ot/ier ciVfrwa/) ^^'I'*"'"' f'!"''^'^!''"^, or dry Earth; after proper nuisances. ( cleansing and water-flushing.IG TTcTnov.il of siir- 4. Tlie iiiiniecliatc removal of all snrface-iiltli, garbage, Diyii.K oMiuiuid and decomposing materials, and tlie drying of sueli localities ' and all Avet surfaces by means of surface drainage, chy sand or earth, and desiccating with lime or charcoal if at hand. Special veotii- 5. Order such improvement in the ventilation of all occu- ?un'urd°''suppiy picd apartmeiits as Avill insure the steady snpply of not less °^ than from twenty to forty cubic feet of fresh external air to each 2KTS011 every minute hj day and hy nigJd. Also let Sunlight. into all places an abundance of sunlight. Systematic 0. If tlic iufcctcd qnarters or place must continue to be diamage. occupicd many days, institute a system of thorough and deep drainage of the entire locality ; also take measures for ■waier-suppiy. securiug the best water-suppl_y. cheeifuiaess ■ Fi'om tlic first, and continually, call into operation all and hope. proper uioaus for increasing the cheerfulness, hopefulness, and genei'al morcde of all })atients and attendants, and let Attention to hy- all the principles of hygiene be bronglit into their fullest gitmcuvv». operation in the persons and apartments, and throughout the entire locality in which eiidemic infection prevails or is liable to prevail. iTyRienic m^n- Special Iliiqienic Manaqement of Patients and Wards : ageiiient of i>a- . "^"1. . . . .7 ■ 7- 7 • tiu.,cs and wards. Ventilation, JJisinJ'ection, JJistnmUion, Isolation, etc. Only nne kind 1. Avoid allowiug more tliau ouc of the types or kinds ease to be allow- of really infectious disease at one time in the same apart- ed in a single ~, . .-it- , , • • ^ ward. meiit. ihis rule is particularly important m managing the infections diseases comprised in the Second class. Patients not to ^- Pi'oliibit the accumulation of large numbers of patients greafumMblTs.''' sufltcriug froiu tlicsG maladics in one apartment or upon a small area ; and if ever it should be necessary to have any- thing like the usually allotted number of patients in a -ward, let the ventilation of such an apartment be improved and ail-space must be kept ill tlio iTiost cffcctual ojieratioii. When jiracticable, au^neiHing nilio thorc sliould 1)0 au allotment of from 1.500 to 2,500 cuhic u|)oii llie nuiubeis ./■,//•• , i ,. , . , ' , ' gi>- egated. ject oj air-sj>ace to each patient lu such a ward.17 3. Tlie most scvnpnlous cleanliness should be rip;i(.lly impmiance of enforced in everytliin(>; tliat ])crtains to the patients and to linea'a" ""^""^ their apartments. In no ease should a sponge or towel, oi' any article of clothing that has been used upon one of this class of patients, be used upon any otlier patient, unless the article so employed has lirst been cfiectually cleansed and boiled. All such contaminated articles must be treated as being held for the time in domestic quarantine, and they should not be released from sucli rigid restrictions until Persona! clnlh- after having been-washed and sidojected to a boiling heat, spmiVes," eic. iniless treated l)y direct a])plication ot vapor ot bronnne, iuft-ctea, etc. chlorine, or permanc-anate of potash in solution. The attend- 1 ■ 1 ■ 1 1 IT 1 IT- C!cnnline?s of ants upon the sick Avitn these maladies should give scrupu- mnsusana aiten lous attention to personal cleanliness. 4. Thorough dryness should be always enforced in tlie importance of sick-room ; the Hoors should be dry-cleaned, and tlie local n,'e".''s*'or^''uK;'iii atmosphere specially desiccated by means of strong through and tlirough air currents, or, in the absence of such ventila- tion, by the use of special dryers, e. g., (piicklime, or sul- pliuric acid, distributed on shallow plates; or very dry sand laid as a coating on the floors, and frecpiently removed. On shipboard with infectious diseases, such c/;'_y/»(7 of the Means for pro- local atmosphere is of special importance ; and it is proper m"o'"I'i'ire'i'li to remark that the writer has succeeded best in securing board.'" ^" such desiccation by means of Hpecial ventilation, dry-clean- ing the floors, and the free use of dried sand coatings, with the employment of cpiicklime, etc., as here mentioned. 5. Patients with other diseases should not be permitted to Nature and ex- visit wards devoted to typhus or otlier infect lOUS maladies, i^nbirinnn-qnired and ill guarding against the spread of any of the infections, of eaUs.'^''''""" the second as well as of tlie first class, there should be no umiecessarv intercourse between the apartments assi<xned to the different diseases. G. Whatever other diseases or surgical cases may, from ah nnheaicd ... /(. T • • 1 -1 wounds to be iib- nccessity, be sr.iiered to remain m the same Avard, or upon sounuiy nreciud- • 1 1 11 ... ed from the pres- tlie same floor With the second class of infectious, all xm-ence or infections ' of tecond class.18 licalod aiiipntations or open Avoiincls must be kept out of their presence and beyond tlieir inliucnce. Sanitary meas- Tlic univcrsal expericncc of military surgeons and oflicers urcs slioiild be . , , ^ . t , , . . . bo.ii lea-onabie Qi Jiospitals lias sliown llow mdispensaulv important it is and cOTeciive. ■ that a reasonable and effectual system of domestic and per- sonal liygiene, based upon the principles and maxims here stated, should be intelligent!}^ enforced wherever the infec-. tious pests of armies spring up. And it may be remarked, that the same localizing conditions and the same sanitaiy The sreciabeg- iicglects that Avc liave mentioned in reference to the most Illations tliat con- * t i. £> i • j"* i m ' /' j.* i n tioi and prevent virulcnt ot endciTiic lebrile miections, seem to be equally rile infections, aS aClivC and fully as important in the production and o t Ii e r en Icniic endemic diffusion of the causes of camp dysentery and the i.eases. fatal diari'lia^al affections that follow in the trail of armies. Camp (lysente- And whether personally communicable or not, the latter infectious'"^nd maladics are often seen to be as much dependent upon en- communicable. . -i t t • • i ■ ^ i demic and localizing causes, in iiospitai wards and other localities, as typhus and hospital gangrene. Were we to group that class of maladies for consideration in these pages, we might properly place them in a separate or sub-class, and reo-ard them as being somewhat allied to both the second and third classes of infections. The maladies here re- ferred to, Avhen occurring in crowded military cpiarters, endemics mnsi l;e transports, or hospitals, should be regarded as being con- tingently infectious. In these diarrhoeal maladies it is ad- adniitted that the dejections from the bowels tend to per- petuate and spread the same maladies. And this process may properly be denominated infectious, though there is not as definite a period of ineuhation as that which charac- terizes the febrile types of infection. Third class of TiuRt) Class OK Infectioxs.—At the risk of some just in cc ions. criticisius upon this classification—an arrangement adopted solely for a practical object—Ave have, for the occasion. Reasons fo r grouped together the three remarkably distinct and fatal this peculiar i • j /• 77 t '77 /> grouping. diseases—ti/jmouijevet', c/iolem, and yellow jercr. Whatever may be true and whatever doubtful in the history of these maladies as regards the mooted question of19 jjorsonalhj infections qualities, that question is so involved The mooted ill indetinite contingencies and consequent doubts, tliat it is Boniil comnuuii- practically of very subordinate importance. It is only cussl7 ia^tuTs necessary to our purpose to refer to the causes that tend especially to localize and to iierpetuate these maladies. The special con- -nw 1 i • 1 1 TA- -I •,. diiionsanil lociil- Uependent upon widely dmerent sources, these diseases izi'iR causes . , . , , ' ' . aloue conaideieJ. agree m tlieir depeuaencc mainJy upon external agencies, and in a manifest tenacity of their specific poisons or infec- tion in the locality in wliich they respectively become local- iezd. They arc emphatically cndemial maladies, and cholera K'^tonni more \ , hid nguncies pre- claims also to be the tvpe of an epidemic of "widest ranire: domina'? ,V " ^ ^ o^causesof this but Avhen localized, the infected locality of any one of these ^^^^^ °^ is a place of danger. This is most emphatically true of the specific and unknown cause of yellow fever, and is, contin- gently, not less true of the most active causes respectively of cholera and of enteric and typhus fevers. And it is de- iocalizniio"7"of monstrated by experience that, to give sanitaiy security poiso^i'is.*^°^ ao'ainst these dreaded diseases, the causes of their infectious poisons must be removed, or, otherwise, that all susceptible persons, tarrying or visiting such infected places, must be prohibited therefrom. All etfective sanitary regulations, for pi'ot clion of an controlling and preventing these diseases, have both these tion can (iiil.v be necessary conditions of security in A'lew. movai or iiie lo- „, ' ., . 11 TIT -jii causes of in- i he separate consideration oi the leading points, to be red ion, or by im- ... . Tf>ii>i 1 niediale removal kept in view m tlie sanitary control oi each ot these maia- or the people, dies, will set forth this subject in a practical light. Typhoid, or Enteric Fever.—Various morbid agencies Typhoid ferer; I-. , . , 1 • <> T i. '11 ''s causes ollen are usually combined m producing this tever, but Ave Avili com;.iex; what specify that whicli is most important and widely-acting, and ihemost p'osiiive Avhich is most directly connected Avith the question of a in"sl specific infectious cause. This has Ijeen denominated by Dr. Murchison the pi/ihoqenic infection, or the specific miasm Tiie localizing 'J <J ^ and infecting of sewers and ne2;lected latrines—the pest of camps and iioisonnriatrines ~ '- and sewers; tlie badly drained towns. Says Dr. J. P>. Ui'iiaai, in lus report fever poison of /-~( • camps. uj^on this fever, published by the IT. S. Sanitary Commis- sion [Medical Document K, p. 0): "Its essential causes are by no means Avell ascertained. " " Among the immediate causes must be named the ordinary excitants of disease in camps."20 Typlioiil f-'ver How rendered endemic. Q'he fact is now well Ascertained tliat this fever h, under gt"iiiri"re"tioLi's certain contingencies, iirl'ections and comniunical^le tlu-ongli agencies^'"^' tlic agcncj of tlic Lodily excretions of the sick, but the greater truth is, that effete animal and organic matter in a state of putrescence, as in badly policed camps, barracks and latrines; and, especially, the mephitic effluvia from sinks, etc., are the most powerful localizing causes of its endemic prevalence. Sj)ecial sanitary measures: 1st. Remove from the Special preveu- pestilent localitv the sick, and as many other siipce])ti1)]e tivo lucasujes. ^ • in ii ^ - i ^ • persons as practicable, and place them in salubrious quarters. 2d. Wherever patients with typhoid fever are placed, let , , effectual measures be instituted to remedv overcrowdino-, Removnl oiper- " ~' iTi'ii'lli'^'purift! ^^^'^'5 humidity, neglected bodily excretions, latrines, sinks, fectedpucea^scwei's, aiid all other causes that tend to augment and localize the infection of this malady as an endemic. 3d. In general, pursue the same course of hygienic care and sanitary police as in typhus, but Avitb greater care, if „ ., , possible, to abate external nuisances, and comparativelv less Penis of expos- -i ' 7 ± ^ uye toiheiocaior coucem for auv degree of absolute isolation of the sick atmo^piieric in- o e7ti\°Vfi'omThe pei'sons. The ah'ine dejections, and the chamber vessels, sicii: persons. previous to cxposure should be treated with some prompt disinfectant: This must be attended to in all diarrha?al diseases. Cholera.—With as limited and even less certain knowl- ciioier.i, what odgc of the csseutial causes of cholera, the laws Avhich isl<nown of iaws • l ^ ' 1 1 n 1 governing iis lo- govcm its cndemic prevalence are perhaps as well knovrn endemic preva- aS those that relate to typhoid fever. And without the least evidence of co-rehitiou of these maladies, or their es- sential causes, still it may be remarked that the same con- ditions of li^'gienic neglect tend to localize either malady and to perpetuate its infectious power, when a foothold is once obtained. The same sanitary measures apply to both, Avoidance of—^^'^^^^ ^his remark, that there is more urgent necessity infectediocaiiiies. ^^^^ immediately rcmo\ ing all uninfected persons from places wliei'c cholera is really endemic. It is also, perliaps more riioleric cvnc- , . . ' , o ^ ^ l^ 1 uationa from tiie Urgently uuportaiit. 111 the case ot ciiolcra, tiiat the evacua- b'^rreaiidf''"'''" tious froiii the stomach antl bowels should be instantly re-21 moved and carefully kept from exposm-e in any way to otlier persons than the patients tliemselves. The same disinfectants are required as in the manaire- speciai;2 disia- J- C3 fectants. ment of the 2d class of infections, especially should there be a free application of quicklime or the alkaline chlorides in the immediate control of all excretions from the patients, as Avell as for the preservation of atmospheric dryness and purity. The ventilation of hospital wards and all infected places should be as perfect as possible. Yelloio Fever.—Infected iilaces and infected materials^ Yellow fever jl-'-j^ L^ • c ,1 -I habitsof its infeo- not the persons suliermg irom tins fever, are the recognized lious poison, sources of danger. The question of a specific infection or infected places ~ ■■■ i and things—not poison seems in this instance to relate mainly to locality and Sources Trdaa- to porous and retentive materials from an infected place. The facts relatins; to the nature and treatment of vellow p™'- Metcalfe's report to the San- fever are concisely and well stated by Prof. J. T. Metcalfe, itarycommission in his valuable little monograph published by the Sanitary Commission \_Medcial Document^ Z.] The few facts that demand specific notice in this place in reference to the control and prevention of the infection of this fever may be stated as follows : 1. The infectin<2; cause of yellow fever may be conveyed infecting causes 1,11 1 11 1 i. ^ oflhis fever, how from place to place by vessels and by porous ana retentive conveyed from materials of various kinds that have been exposed in places where this fever is endemic, or that have elsewhere become felted"."''''"'^ contaminated by the presence of infected materials. 2. The positive means for destroying the infecting cause ^^"^f^^^^^^-^ or specific poison of this malady, are, first, a freezing teni- {["/"^^'j^'^JJ'^yjj^g perature; or secondly, a temperature, of 212 °F.—boiling produces this re- heat ; thirdly, destruction of the infected things by fire. Any of these methods may be employed to destroy the Extremes of , -I ij.1' il temperature infecting poison which clin2;s to vessels and things—tne se- -frost and heat T 1 • ii J. —'^"^ rendered cond method, by means of a boilmg heat, being tlie most avoidable for dis- ' ••' ... • r a in'ection. available and probably the most certain in its operation, l^ee Specicd Report on Heat as a Disinfectant. Proceedings of the National Quarantine and Sanitary Convention, 222 I860.] But the 1st method—cold—is nature's sure means of destroying the endemic cause of this tropic pestilence, and it is alone competent to the Avork of instantly terminating its prevalence in any given district of country. Localizing 3, The localiziug and endemic causes of other zymotic eniieniics aggia- maladics sccm to augment the virulence of yellow fever, vHt6 tlie cndciii- icsof this fever, r^^^t\ regious specially liable to this fever, hygienic neglect may jnstly be regarded as an important tributary cause of Perils ofun- eiidcmic prevalence. So true is this on shipboard, tliat clean tran.sporls i . ' lowTeve^"^*^'" unfrequently this pestilent malady breaks out with great virulence as soon as the nncleau vessel reaches the region or zone in which it is possible for yellow fever to prevail. urerfoi^'iimiting ^hc immediate removal of the entire population,—ex- tbu^pe'saieuce."^ ccptiug ouly thosc persons that have once had the fever,— from the infected locality, is the first and most necessary sanitary measure to be adopted in any place, when yellow fever has become endemic ; and this protective measure is the^'^^cliity^'^i" equally important in a single apartment or building, a par- fected. ticular compartment, side, or deck of a ship, or in an entire street or neighborhood that has become infected. Quarantine reg- 5. Eegulations to prevent unnecessary intercourse with their nature, and infected places may, in particular instances, be essential to vr at t leii utility. p-^.Q^-gg^j^^ agaiust the distribution of materials that would communicate and spread this fever, which naturally tends to limit itself to definitely bounded localities. As Dr. Metcalfe very justly says, in the report mentioned on the preceding page, " To abandon quarantine restraints on yelloM' fever, is to place a price on human life, and barter it for trade." Generalconsid- Scmitciry Mexisuves ogainst Infections Diseases in Tnl smMlry^Ks- TransjJovts (incl Croivded Quarters.—In the foregoing pages ulations for in- , . a • i i- ii feciiouB diseases, wc havc cudeavorcd to convey a correct idea ot the para- mount importance of intelligent and unceasing attention to personal and local hygiene, whatever may be the special measures required for preventing the activity or spread of infectious poisons.23 pon Purity of the local atnioppliere, and propei- cleanliness of vigilance and person, and of (jnarters, can Le preserved in hospitals and ne"essa?y tX'i-e^ transports only by the most vigilant effort and exact dis- coniXSon'i'n eipline. In hospitals, the vitiating inflnences are peculiar tansplnl''''"'^ and mnnerous. Said Baron Lakrey, before the French Academy, last year, " The natural excretions of the patients, their fcetid breath and perspiration, the expectoration of gases and liquids, alvine dejeotions, evacuations, and nrinary fistulo3, all these joined to accidental secretions, thesuppu- Earon Larrey's ration of wounds and ulcers, and the putridity of hospital [hirsuiject." gangrene, are so many mephitic beds from which may arise the most formidable epideniics in field and general hospitals, on the trail of armies in campaigns, exhausted by all the fatigue and privations of war; and above all, in the disas- trous conditions of encoinbremenf (crowding). We need not enumerate the sources of a vitiated atmos- phere and consequent endemic infections in camps and bar- racks ; they are known to every soldier. M. Baudens' re- mark that the infection of fever in the Crimea, " had one foot in the camp and one in the field hospital," is fully ex- plained when he states that " the quarters for troops shine with the greasy filth of daily neglect," and that "on re- Results of neg- view day, the fine battalions left, as they passed, the marked aad camp's.'''"'''^ and well-known stench of the barracks." sr. Baudcns' re- maik. In transports, whether with troops for the field, or with ^^^^j ^^^^ sick and wounded men, the perils of overcrowding, bad ven- f.is!,"",',.;"^^^ '^o^ tilation, uncleanliness, bad diet, and want of exercise, com- °ecTed"tran'sport3." bine to induce the worst degrees of infection, and to dimin- ish the vital powers of all who suffer sucli privations. Fortunately the greater part of the water transportation during the present war has been by the river and bay ^^vantage for steamers, Avhose ample decks and open ventilation have h"'e'-'and ba/ been the best of safeguards against the diseases that nu)st infest transport ships. Yet even at this stage of progress of the national arms southward, numerous instances liave occurred which illustrate tlic peculiar perils of transports even under favorable circumstances. The following passage is from the report of Surgeon J. 11. Bkintox, upon the hos-24 pital gangrene in tlie western hospitals. In Lis special Surgeon Brin- rcport to the Siirgeon-General, Dr. Brinton says : " The ton's report upon . . hospital gan- development of this disease on the route seems to have grene. ■'• been owing to the fact that the transportation of the wounded was efiectted by means of crowded and ill-ven- tilated boats, and that the trip by the Cumberland and Ohio rivers frequently occupied several days. During this time these patients, who had . already undergone much suf- fering, were exposed to all the influences most apt to engender this disease. In contrast with this fact, it was found that, as soon as the Louisville and Nashville Rail- road was opened, so that the wounded could be conveyed from city to city in one day, all importation of gangrenou.3 sores into Louisville ceased. The development of hospital gangrene during the boat transportation is a noticeable fact, and is strikingly analogous with the same phenomena observed among our paroled wounded prisoners from Rich- mond, received into the Annapolis General Hospital some months since." o/"ar7fnofe"an^ ^^^'^ trausport sliips for troops upon the sea coast and mtnloiTii^t ^"Ifj ^l^e evils of crowdiug, lack of ventilation, and the P""""" presence of infectious diseases, have already produced serious results in a number of instances; and, as the war progresses, there will be constantly increasing necessity for much greater care in the sanitary management of such transports. Especially is an intelligent medical supervision of the transports now needed, to guard against the introduc- in'^ur''citie"'*u3 ^^^^^ ^^^^ Spread of the infection of typhus fever, which has a>T/mtrbevig! ^gaiu obtained foothold in our cities. The perils to which iiantiy guarded. ^^^^ patieuts iu military hospitals both at the North and the South will be exposed when typhus gains access to them or to the transports, would be greater than all the casualties of diS»°af a n'rt ^^^^^^^ or of the sea. Already the fact has become too fi^nspom. '° fvpparent that the insalubrious condition of the returning transports is localizing and extending the prevalence of typhoid fever and dysentery. Hints upon hy- The practical importance of this subject, as well as the ml'^ or"t^au3- peculiar exigencies of the transport service, justify the fol- lowing brief suggestions upon the hygienic management oftransports with reference to the prevention of infections maladies. These snggestions the reader will please regard merely as practical applications of principles already enun- ciated in the foregoing pages. The points that demand consideration concerning the Points to be con- siJered lelatine; to transports and to tlie troops up- 1 • • J. J? J , siJered relating hygienic management oi transports, are,— to transports and on tlicm. 1st. Tliose that relate to the vessel; previous to embark- ation, and subsequently, when crowded with passengers. 2d. Tliose that relate to the soldiers, previous to embark- ation, and subsequently, while they are on board the transport. The Transport.-—Cleanliness of the vessel; this is an ist. sanitary essential point, and it will seldom be properly attended to wants of trans- before the embarkation, unless the medical officer intelli- ''^cleanliness, gently advises the proper authorities upon the subject. Transports that have been long in service, and upon voy- ages of several days duration, need to be frequently and thoroughly cleansed, and all the spaces between decks and to the very keelson, should be limewashed. Transj)orts upon gpg^j^j „ which any infectious endemic has recently prevailed, should ^^g," that havl either be thrown out of service, or be subjected to sucli feSs'diseases' processes of cleansing, fumigation, and ventilation, as will remove all local infection ; Chlorine, nitrous acid fumes, or ciiionne and ,. Til -I a ,^ • 1* nitrous acid fumi- bromine, may very readily be used for this purpose; and, in gationa. the case of yellow fever infection, if such a transport must be employed before it can be sent to the region of frost, its use of steam, spaces should all be flooded with super-heated steam. "Water ^jhe water sup- should be abundantly supplied in sound casks and tanks, and of as good quality as can be obtained: If it contains much organic matter, let freshly burned and clean charcoal, or the permarganate of potash, be supplied for use in its purification. Of buckets and lavatories let there be full supply on deck, that it may l)e practicable to enforce the proper observance of personal cleanliness. When soldiers are detained several days upon transports, great advantages ^' cea-^''^^'^^26 Avill be attained in personal health and comfort, no less than in respect of protection against endeniial and infec- tious agencies, by tl^e habit of daily ablution of the entire cioneai ar-body. Watcr-closets and spouts must be amply sufficient rangeme . ^^^^ |)roperly arranged, even for short voyages, or the most veniiiatioD. offcnsivc souvces of disease will be sure to exist. Ventila- tion : A transport should have means of effective through and through ventilation, from the bows to the stern, and from the upper deck to the keelson, and this is provided in some measure by the ship's hatches, gangways, and counter- ports ; but the special improvements or works for ventila- tion in ordinary transports, consist mainly in greatly in- Theie mu3i. be ci'^asiug the area and the places of egress for foul air : e^essfoTfouiair.' ^liis is bcst effected, temporarily, by increasing the area of the windows and air-shafts at the stern, and, if ad- missible, elsewhere. The ingress of fresh air is easily provided for after establishing the channels and amount of Wind-sails, how outlct. Wiud-sails for ingress can be multiplied indefinitely, extemporized. i t-t-i tt and when no properly made Avmd-sails are at hand, any sailor can rig studding-sails for the same purpose. Each Eacli deck to deck must have its independent channels for supply of fresh dent channeiTof air, and for the egress of foul air. The lower or closed decks for air : the area of steamship transports, shoidd have shafts or areas of out- less^'tmn 4 sqTt. let for foul ail', at least equal to four squat'e feet for every 0 pas-eu„eis. men. The total area of the fresli-air inlets should con- siderably exceed that of the foul-air outlets ; and upon the proper adjustment of the outlets and the intelligent manage- ment of the inlets depends the problem of extemporized means of ventilation in ships. The estimate given above, will ply of Tir'l how provide 1,000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour to each man, ei ima e . ^ vcssel Sailing five knots an hour ; but, if no special out- lets are provided, even twice the number of wind-sails, all injecting, would fail even to supply at the rate of 100 cubic Principles of ^'^'^^ P®^" ^o^^^'- siuiplo are the principles of naval ven- ar7si'inpie'''''"°° tilatiou, that with the aid of an intelligent shipmaster, tem- porary means for effectual ventilation may be instituted , without cost or delav, in any transiiort. The proper man- Attention to the ' air-supply not to agenieut of the ventilation, too-ether Avith the strict clean- be neglected an . 7 ''o'^'- Imess and police of the ship, are indispensable every horn* that soldiers remain upon a transport.27 Sanitary liegulatlons for Soldiers ujyon Transports.— 2d. sanitary P, , . , 1 government of rcvious to embarkation upon ontward voyages, tliere sowiers upon should be an inspection to prevent any infectious or other """^p"' important disease from being brought on board, and every man should be vaccinated, or exhibit evidence of previous imporianGe of T ^ ^ • • ^ t it i'^ preliminary in- vaccmation. In embarking sick and wounded men, the spectiou: vacdn- . •1111 • f alien. same vigilant caution should be exercised to exclude infec- tious diseases from the transport: and when any infectious importance of ' •' separate trana- maladv must be transported by water, a special compart-pt"if^''o''fo.''j"^- ■ J- J- tients with infec- ment, or an entire ship, should lie provided exclusively for """^ maladies, that purpose. The practical importance of these rules cannot be over estimated when typhus and hospital gan- grene are rife. The question as to which part of a trans- port should be selected for the isolation of infectious cases section of a 111 •iiTn-> 1 transport best of disease, may best be determined by the onicers m charo-e. adapted for "sick ■' ^ ^ bay" or liospital. Dr. Eobert Jackson recommends the section under the bows of the ship ; and, in a sailing vessel, that may be best; but in transports, propelled by steam, the stern of the ship is probably best. It is particularly important that the sick- bay or hospital have a separate gangway, and ready access to the galley ; also, that it be furnished with a portable culinary apparatus, and with air-tight close stools. And especially must the sick-bay have independent and ample means of ventilation, and be suitably lighted. Personal vuai import- cleanliness, and rigid sanitary police, in all that affects cip'ifne'and"'sa^ni- personal habits, clothing, diet, and exercise, are so pc- '^'^ cnliarly important on shipboard, that all regulations and penalties relating to this subject, should be rigidly enforced. Anv inattention to these things, on the part of medical Periis of reiax- r,.' 1 1- 1 f -i- 1 V ing such authori- oflicers, and any letting doMMi ot military and police an- ty. tliority, might prove more fatal than the casualties of a battle-field. The special management of the sources of in- fection, whether they be indigenous, or introduced, upon transports, should conform to the principles that have been stated in the former part of this paper; and it is vitally im- The sanitary 1 ■, 1 , I n ^ ^^ I. ^ • nianiigenient of portant that there should be the greatest fidelity and vig- transports^ j^e- ilaiice in the supervision and execution of all the details of exact application 1 . 1 • T? • 11 t. ^^ of hygienic linow- sanitary regulations lor this purpose. J^.specially must the ledge. most scrupulous cleanliness of the men and their clothing,28 Exercise and their habits and their quarters, be enforced by military cleanliness. authority; and, at stated periods of the day, every man who is not in hospital should be compelled to vacate the 'tween decks, to take exercise in the open air, and the dis- position to hybernate in sloth and neglect must be effectually opposed; while such cheerful exercise and games as can be permitted should be encoiiraged. As in hospitals, and crowded barracks, so in transports, the problem of sanitary security is the problem of abundant air-supply, cleanliness, local purity, and general obedience . to physiological laws. The probabili- ^ , tics of prevailing Althous'li the mfcctious typcs of disease have not yet pre- endemica of in- ° _ _ ^ J. fectioua disease yailcd Very extcnsivcly amono; the national forces, it is to as the war pro- j •/ !d 7 greases. expcctcd that the greater hardships and perils of cam- paigns now commencing, together with the attendant in- salubrity of climate and localities, the crowding of hospitals, transports and quarters, and greater exposure to special sources of infection in the South, wdll demand the most ^, , intelligent attention of medical officers to the questions Value of timely J- preventive meas- pi-escnted iu thcsc pagcs, But if timely and effectual sani- tary measm*es are adopted, and every controllable source of pestilential infection or general disease is anticipated bv pre- The results to . . . t i " t 1 be anticipated vcutivc means, our vast armies will certainly be spared the sweeping pests of typhus, camp dysentery, and hospital gangrene, and be protected from the scourges of scorbutus, typhoid fever, and cholera,—diseases which in all European armies have proved far more distructive than aU the pro- jectiles and sabers of the enemy.APPENDIX Special Disinfectants and their Ajyj^lications.—That there can be no substitute for fresh air to meet the physiological requirements of respira- tion and health should be indelibly impressed upon every mind. Better that all substances at present employed as disinfectants and deodorants ■were at once prohibited by the Medical Department than that such agents should practically tend to be regarded as substitutes for a pure atmosphere. But the necessities and privations of army life, the multi- plied agencies of disease, and the vitiating conditions attendant upon wounds and sickness, create necessities for the employment of chemical and other artificial agencies to mitigate, and, in some measure, prevent the otherv^'ise inevitable contamination of the local atmosphere of crowded hospitals, transports, and quarters ; and it is only such necessary demands for the employment of disinfectants that justify even the occasional allusion we have made respecting them in preceding pages. They are simply aids in restoring and preserving healthful purity, and not substitutes for cleanliness and pure air. For the convenience of persons who may have occasion to refresh the memory with the more practical facts relating to special disinfectants, and the best method of their application, the following notes are added in reference to this subject: The principal disinfecting agents may be classified as follows: , , . . "1 Charcoal, Absorbents and retainers of nox- ^11^ pt- /•m„„f„.-"Po,.;c^ r Sulphate of Limo (Plaster i arisj, Sulphite of Lime, ious effluvia, particxdarhj the am moniacal and sulphuretted gases. Silicate of Alumina (Porous Clay). Ahsorhenis of moisture ; chemical ' agents that act upon 07-ganic matter, and re-comhine some of the elements of noxious effluvia. Quicklime, Sulphuric Acid, Hydrochloric Acid, Nitric and Nitrous Acids.30 iSoIuhh sails that are. particu- 1 7 , -1 n J- ,■ I Nitrate of Lead larly available for arresting 2^>'0- ^„ , . ^ , .,• 1 J- Gliloridu of Zinc cesses or decomposition, and for controlling pihosjjhuretted and sul- phuretted gases. Proto-Cliloridc of Iron, Proto-Sulpliate of Iron. Antiseptics that act diffusivehj and Chlorine Gas, rapidly, though less permanently \ Hypochlorite of Soda [^Labarra- than some others. Active in destroy- \ que's soluiion]. ing compound gases. J Chloride of Lime. The most prompt and efficient antiseptic known. Bromine. Antiseptic, and of great power as an oxidizer, and as an availaUe ). Permanganate of Potassa." source of ozone. Antiseptic and deodorant; capable "J of a great variety, extent, and econo- \ Carbolic Acid and Coal-tar com- my of applications, and acting luith \ pounds. considerable energy and permanency. J Destructive of contagious virus and all transportable infections. Heat. Destructive of Yellow Fever miasma, and of the malaria that \ Frost. produces the " Paludal Fevers." Considered theoretically, we may regard all disinfecting agents under the following heads, and perhaps this would be the more scientific ar- rangement of them:—1. Absorbents of moisture and of noxious effluvia ; 2. Oxidizers [ozone the most active], and Z'eo,'i;iy!2e?'s; 3. Other chemical agents that break up noxious compounds ; 4. Agents that form indestruc- tible compounds with putrescent materials ; or that destroy cell-life and the cryptogamic and infusorial organisms. But as the present state of chemical and medical knowledge on\y enables us to make such general statements respecting the theoretical action of disinfectants, we will follow our first classification by a few practical statements concerning each of the articles mentioned. Charcoal.—Freshly burned and broken, this substance will absorb from 10 to li2}ercent. its own weight of gases and moisture from the atmosphere during the period of 2-i hours; and it is capable of absorbing 00 times its own volume of ammonia, or 55 times its own volume of sulphuretted hydrogen. Properly applied, charcoal is an arrester of pu- trefaction, and, as such, it is worthy of more extensive employment in31 the better preservation of animal food v^'hcn served out in an un- wholesome state by tiie reg:imental quartermasters. As a disinfectant or deodorant for extensive use in masses of putrescent material, and for local purification, fresh charcoal is of acknowledged value. Tlie British Sanitary Commission, in the Crimea, ordered whole ship-loads of peat charcoal, which they used in the progress of their work of purification in the hosjjitals, barracks, or camps in the East. A Eeport of that Commis- sion states that " perhaps the best deodorizing compound was one used by the inspectors in all their works. It consisted of one x>art of peut char- coal, one iKirt of quicJdime, and four parts of sand or gravel." It should be remembered that the preservation of the disinfecting power of char- coal powder depends upon its being both fresh and dry. SuljjJiaie of Lime, Sulphite of Lime, and Porous Clay.—All these sub- stances are valuable absorbents of ammoniacal and sulphuretted efQuvia, and they constitute exceedingly convenient vehicles and auxiliary men- strua for some of the more potent and expensive antiseptics. The much vaunted French disinfectant, known as the disinfecting powder of Messrs. Corne & Demeaux, consists of about 9-1 per cent, of finely ground gypsum and 5 or 6 per cent, of coal-tar or the " heavy oil of coal-tar." McDougall's powder, and the Eidgewood disinfectant, consist of carbolic acid com- bined with the sulphate of lime and porous silicate of alumina, respect- ively, as will be noticed upon a subsequent page. Hypo-sulphite of lime possesses the property of absolutely arresting fermentation or the catalytic processes. The several substances of this first class, and their compounds, particularly those with carbolic acid or coal-tar, are among the most valuable disinfectants, especially when large quantities of cheap and effectual articles of the kind are required. Quicldime.—With sulphuretted and with phosphoretted effluvia, and witli humid vapors, freshly burned lime unites with great avidity, and as an absorbent of moisture and a chemical base for many acids, it is of peculiar value; but lime also eliminates or sets free the ammoniacal gases, and, like the acids of our second class of disinfectants, it is of Zess p)ermanent value than some other agents. It is one of the most convenient antiseptics, and for local applications, as in whitewashing, sprinkling, desiccating damp surfaces or putrescent substances, and ibr temporarily arresting putrefaction, it is invaluable. Lime should be used dry and unslacked, except it be for the special purpose of combining with car- bonic acid gas; for the latter object it should be reduced to a creamy hydrate, and, in overcrowded Avards and barracks, it may be usefiilly employed in tliis way, distributed in shallow plates. Distributed in like manner, sulphuric acid may be employed for diminishing the humidity of the atmosphere in a closed and damp apartment; but for this pur- l)Ose it is usually better to resort to strong currents of air, by mcaus of through and through ventilation, when practicable.32 The topical applications of the acids, particularly of the nitric acid, in arresting gangrene, are well understood by surgeons. Nitrous acid is a valuable antiseptic, and the production and application of its fumes con- stituted the famous disinfecting process of Dr. Carmichael Smyth. The fumes of nitrous acid that so long had fame for di.sinfccting pur- poses in the barracks, hospitals, and navy of Great Britain may be readily produced by heating a mixture of nitrate of potassa and sulphuric acid in an iron or porcelain dish. Persons who resort to this method of fumigation, should bear in mind the fact that strong fumes of nitrous acid are dangerously irritating to the throat and lungs. The.se fuming acids are powerful oxidizers, but their avidity for water, together with their peculiarities of chemical affinity, render their value as disinfectants somewhat uncertain. Nitrate of Lead.—Practical considerations place this salt at the head of odorless disinfecting salts most available for certain local applications, siich as deodorizing a close apartment, and the bedding, etc., of sick per- sons, by means of a solution distributed on shallow vessels or upon saturated cloths. The nitrate of lead is the basis of " Ledoyen's liquid." Hhe permanganate of potassa is far the most efficient salt of this kind, and its cost alone should limit its employment. It is a chemical agent of different and far greater powers than any of the metallic salts in this third class. Chloride of Zinc.—Though more powerfully antiseptic than nitrate of lead, it is not as valuable a deodorant. It is most to be valued for its property of promptly arresting putrefactive processes. As " Sir Wm. Burnett's disinfectant," it is widely known. Both tliis salt, and that of lead, last mentioned, may be employed to delay decomposition in a corpse, in the absence of an embalmer. This is best accomplished by wrapping the dead body in a folded sheet that is saturated with either of these salts. The Proto-chhride and the Proto-sulphate of Iron.—These are valuable and very cheap agents for aiding in the control of ammoniacal and sul- phuretted effluvia. Being soluble, and very cheap, these salts are capable of varied and convenient applications, separately, or in combiuation with other deodorizing materials. Chlorine and its alkaline compoimds.—^The common preparations of chlorinated soda and chloride of lime act with great efficiency when the carbonic, sulphurated, or ammoniacal gases are brought into contact with them. As their special uses require no explanation in this place, we simply append brief directions for generating chlorine gas where ifc may be required more immediately and copiously than it would be given off by the alkaline chlorides or hypochlorites. I33 Ready meihod.—Pour dilute hydrochloric, sulpliuric, nitric, or acetic acid upon chlorides of lime, zinc, or soda. This may be done gradually by means of a glass or lead syphon, or by the capillary syphon of lamp-Avick, dropping the acid upon the chloride, if desirable to evolve the chlorine steadily for many hours. Cheaj] method.—Mix G parts of peroxide of manganese with 8 parts of table salt (chloride of sodium) in a lead or iron vessel, which should be set freely within another vessel of larger capacity ; pour npon the mix- ture of manganese and salt 13 parts of sulphuric acid, which may be diluted Avith water to abate the rapidity of the evolution of the gas. Heat the vessel containing this mixture by means of hot water or steam, if more rapid evolution of the gas is required. Ordinary method.—Mix four parts of fuming hydrochloric (muriatic) acid with one part of coarse powder of peroxide of manganese, adding water, as may be desired, to abate the rapidity of evolution. Apply moderate heat. The vessel may be of a kind to permit the use of the acid, and the heat. The heat, however, by this method, is not indis- pensable. A very neat method of evolving chlorine in hospitals and transports, is to put a few ounces of the black oxide of manganese into a stout glass bottle of large size, rig a bulbous pipette to a perforated cork or stopper, and fitting an india-rubber bulb upon the headless bulb of the pipette, fill the pipette with muriatic acid, and evolve the chlorine at pleasure by occasional pressure upon the elastic cap. Bromine and its compounds.—This most powerful antiseptic has re- cently been brought into requisition in the military hospitals as a special disinfectant and arrester of gangrene. It is applied both topically' and dif- fusively. Bromine is exceedingly penetrating and energetic in its action, and consequently is to be manipulated and applied with proper caution. It is principally employed in its pure liquid form, or in combination with bromide of potassium. Special caution should be used not to respire the strong fumes or any pulverized compound of bromine, as its eflects when inhaled are suflbcating. The following concise statement of the best methods for applying this potent disinfectant, we quote from Dr. M. GoLDsiiixn, Medical Director of Military Hospitals at Louisville, Ivy., to whom the medical profession is largely indebted for its successful intro- duction as a topical and prophylactic agent for the control of hospital gangrene and erysipelas: Directions for Use. 1. For Fuviigation.—Place vessels, containing one ounce of the solu- tion at dilferent points of tiie ward, and in number sufficient to secure in the latter the constant presence of the odor of bromine.34 It should be borne in mind that, if the vapor of bromine comes in contact with the vapor of water, hydro-bromic acid is formed; tliere- foi-e, when there is much of tlie vapor of water disengaged in tlie a])art- meut, the quantity of the vapor of bromine must be correspondingly increased. 2. Topical Application of the Yapior.—A piece of dry lint is to be placed over the diseased part; over this is to be placed another piece of lint, moistened with tlie solution of bromine ; over this, a third piece spread tvith simple cerate ; the whole to be covered with oiled sill< and bandage, so arranged as to retain the vapor in contact with the diseased surface as long as possible. The solution is to be removed as often as it becomes exhausted by evaporation. 3. Tlie Solution, in Substance, as a direct Application, in Hospital Gan- grene, Diplitheria, Gangrene of the Tongue, and other diseases of this nature:—The parts are first to be dried by the application of cbarpie; then the sloughs, if thick, should be trimmed out with forceps and scis- sors as much as possible, for the thinner the slough the more effective is the remedy. The pans having again been dried, the solution is ap- plied by means of a mop, or a pointed stick of wood, in quantity sufficient to saturate the sloughs. If the sloughs undermine the skin, or dip down into intermuscular spaces, the solution must be made to follow, with the pointed stLcl\:, or by means of a glass syringe. If the application has been eflectual, all odor from the diseased surface ceases, and the sloughs become somewhat hardened. The remedy should be re-applied every second hour, as long as any odor of putrefaction is present, or as long as the sloughs appear to be diffluent. It is not always necessary, especially when the sloughs are diffluent and thin, to use the solution in its full strength ; it may be weakened by the addition of water, as the disease subsides. The points to be especially attended to, in the use of the solution of bromine, are two: 1. The solution should be applied in strength and frequency suflBcient for the impregnation of the lohole of the sloughs; 2 To secure this end, the application slwidd be made hj the surgeon him- self, and never be trusted to a nurse. If the sloughs are thick and cannot well be trimmed, the bromine may be introduced into the thickness of the slough by means of a hypodermic sj'ringe. After the topical application of the solution, the parts, Avhen so situated as to render it practicable, should be subjected to the influence of the vapor. (Sec par. 1.) Surgeons will do well to bear in mind that bromine is a new remedy for the purposes indicated above. The directions for its use, given here, are those followed in the military hospitals of thiscity^; it may be found advisable to modify them as experience with the remedy accunnilates. It is, therefore, earnestly recommended that the subject be studied dili- gentl3\ that the effects of the remedy be carefully watched, and that the application be varied as new facts are developed in its use. The investigation of the evidences respecting the antiseptic and prophy- lactic powers of this new disinfectant has reasonably confirmed the opinion of its great utility. But to secure its beneficial effects, its ap- plication should be made with proper care and thoroughness. It claims to arrest the destructive progress of gangrene, erysipelas, etc., and utter- ly to destroy the personal and the diffused virus of such maladies. To accomplish this ellectually, the bromine must be applied to every mole-35 culo of tlie virus, and this is to be cfTcctcd by means of the pipette syringe, the pointed stick, the scissors, and the sohition, for local appli- cations ; and by its pungent and volatile vapors in wards and other in- fected places. This disinfectant certainly promises to be a great boon to our military hospitals. Permanganate of Poiassa.—K. special order from the Medical Bureau at Washington [Circular, No. 12], calls the attention of medical ofhccrs to " the virtues of permanganate of potassa as a disinfectant and deodo- rizer." This is a soluble substance peculiarly convenient of application and remarkably certain and efficient in its effects as a disinfectant. Its employment as a deodorizer and prophylactic is limited mainly to topical applications, to gangrenous parts or putrescent materials, and to general eflect opon the atmosphere of contaminated apartments, by means of evaporating cloths saturated with a strong solution of the permanganate. The oxidizing and antiseptic eflects of the permanganate of potassa upon organic and putrescent matter arc remarkable. It is the most sensitive test for the presence of organic matter, which it oxidizes with won- derful facility. [&e remarks upon tliis suhjeci in Hammond's Jlijgiene.] As this is an expensive and delicate substance, it is to be employed economically, upon saturated cloths or in dilute solutions upon plates. For purifying oflensive water for purposes of beverage, etc., a standard solution should be dropped into the vessel of water, until the iinge of the permanganate begins to appear. The rapid and effectual oxidation of the organic {putrid) elements of impure water and other substances, even of the atmosphere itself, when brought in contact with solutions of this salt, and the consequent and almost instant deodorization of such impurities, render this disinfectant of priceless value I'or practical pur- poses. And as all preparations of manganese are therapeutically tonic, probably the minute quantities of this salt that would be taken in drink- ing the water purified as above described, would only act beneficially. " Condy's Disinfectant," " Darby's Fluid," and all the vaunted prepara- tions of " Ozonized water," etc., are but solutions of permanganates. The salts are cheaper and more reliable than such nostrums, and are now supplied by all medical purveyors in the army. Coal-tar Compounds—Carholates.—The carbolate of lime has been employed to some extent in our camps and hospitals. lIcDougall's powder consists of carbolate of lime, sulphite of lime, qaick-liine, etc. The Eidgewood disinfectant consists of carbolic acid, proto-chloride of iron, etc., comljined Avitli fullers' earth. Either of these, which are fur- nished by the medical purveyors, appear to be quite as valuable as the more expensive article of M. II. Corne and Denieaux's, Avhich is used at the Imperial Camp at Chalons, and was found highly serviceable by Bar- ron Larrey, after the great battles of the late Italian campaign. Goal tar, in almost any form, is available for disinfecting sewers, etc., and in the36 dry powders mentioned, it is available for delaying the process of decom- position, whether in a corpse, or in refuse material. Carbolic acid has the antiseptic powers of creasote, and is largely sold for that article. The antiseptic properties of coal-tar, its effect upon mephitic gases and putrescent material, the permanency of its operation, and the cheapness of the article, render it available for extensive application in neutralizing and arresting cloacal and noxious effluvia in the processes of animal de- composition. A distinguished Medical Inspector of our army, when cut off from ordinary medical supplies, effectually and quickly abated the nuisances pertaining to an extensive old fortress, by means of an extemporized mixture of coal-tar, procured from the gas-works upon the premises, l^or use in chamber vessels, close-stools, etc., a neat fluid preparation may be made, after the formula of M. Demeaux, by mixing equal parts of coal-tar, alcohol, and hot soft soap. With the progress of knowledge respecting the chemistry of coal-tar and other hydro- carbons, the precise value of this class of disinfectants will be better understood. Coal-tar certainly has remarkable efficacy in arresting putresence and controlling its effluvia. Heat.—As a means of immediate disinfection of contaminated gar- ments, bedding, and even of close apartments, ships, etc., heat is at once a cheap and most effectual method. The boiling of infected clothing, etc., is admitted to effectually destroy any contagious poison. And prac- tically, upon a large scale in such work, experience proves it is best to employ steam as the means of heating. Upon this subject, see remarks and plans of M. Baudens [^Hospitals and Health of Troops, Am. ed., pp. 238-204]; also, a Report on Heat as a disinfectant, in the Transactions of the National Sanitary Convention, 1860. It is probable that no cir- cumstance contributes more directly to the perpetuation and spread of the typhus poison, than the accumulation and bad management of con- taminated clothing, etc., that ought, under all circumstances, to be puri- fied as soon as it leaves the patient or the bed. Frost or Loio Temperature, when continued a sufficient length of time, will effectually destroy both the miasma that produces yellow fever, and the paludal malaria that produces intermittent and remittent fevers; but such low temperature has no effect to arrest those fevers in the persons suffering them. It is worthy of note, that a freezing tem- perature does not appear to mitigate the activity of the personally infec- tious poisons, or contagions; though, with certain exceptions, it arrests putrefaction and the catalytic or fermentative processes. For the Commission: ELISHA HARRIS, M. D.SANITARY COMMISSION. T. ON TlIK USK OF PLASTER OF PARIS SPLINTS IN PRINTED FOR CIRCULATION BY THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION. 1804.TiiK attention of tlio Snnitiiry Commission lins boon directed to (he fact., that most of our Arnij' Surgeons, now in tlie tiekl, are unavoid- ably dcin'lvcd of many facilities tbey have heretofore enjoyed for the con- sultation of standard medical authorities. It, is oljviously inipos,sil)le to place within their reach anything that can be termed a medical library. Tlie only remedy seems to be the preparation and distribution among tlie medical staff, of a series of brief essays or hand-books, embodying in a condensed form the conclusions of the highest medical authorities in regard to those medical and surgical (|ucstions which are likely to present them- selves to surgeons in the field, on the largest scale, and which are, there- fore, of chief practical importance. The Commission has assigned the duty of preparing papers on several subjects of this nature, to certain of its associate members, in our princi- pal cities, belonging to the medical profession, whose names arc the best evidence of their fitness for their duty. The following paper, " On (lie Use of riastcr of Paris Splints in Military Surgery," prepared by Dr. James L. Little, late Ilousc-Surgeon of the New York Hospital, belongs to this series, and is respectfully recommended by the Commission to the Army. J. FOSTKR JENKINS, jM. U., Secretary^ New York, August, ]8()4.ON THE USE OF PLASTER OF PARIS SPLINTS IN MILITARY SURaERY. The use of plaster of Paris in tlie treatment of fractures dates from a A'ery early period. Eaton, an English consul at Bassora, about the close of the last century, saw it employed by the Arabians. It was first employed in Europe b}^ Ilendrikes, at the hospital of Gronin- gen, in 1814, and afterwards by Ilubenthal, Kyle, and Dief- feubach. By these surgeons it was used in a very clumsy manner. Dieffenbach poured the plaster o\'er the limb, so as to inclose it in a solid casing; and it Avas necessary to use the hammer and chisel, in order to break the mould to remove it, thus jarring tlie limb and running the chances of injuring a newly consolidated fracture. These moulds have been justly called by Hamilton, "heavy stone cotfins, they might serve well cnougli the purpose of interment, but they are wholly unsuited to the purposes of a splint." Pirogoff, of St. Petersburg, in the year ISo-l, published a monograph on a new method of l)andaa'ino; fractured limbs with linen soaked in a solution of plaster of Paris. His method Avas as folloAvs : The limb was first bandaged and the depressions filled Avith raAV cotton, then splints of the coarsest linen, saturated in a solution of the plaster were applied lengtlnvise to the limb, and ftistened cross. Avise Avith strips saturated Avith tlie same nu^terial.6 Dr. Grlllck piiljlislied a lecture on Military Surgery, in tlic Amciican Medical Ifonthlij, for Deeemher, 1S55," in wliicli he describes a inetLod of using the phister of Paris similar to that of Pirogoff. Dr. Weber, of this cit}'', reported a case treated in this man- ner in the New Yorh Journal of Medicine, for May, 1S5(;. Other similar methods have also been recommended. Ban- dages with the meshes filled with dry plaster have been ap- plied to tlie limb and then wetted witli cold water; the plaster hardening in a few minutes, formed a solid easing for the liml). Maisonneuve, of Paris, has recently revived the use of this substance in the construction of splints for fractures. His method is similar to that of Pirogoff, and has been fully de- scribed by Drs. Smith and Swan, in their letters from Paris, published in the Aviericcm Medical Times, during the year 1861. It was applied, for the first time, in the ISTeAV York Hospital, in May, ISGl, by the author of this paper, and it an- swered the purpose so admirably, that its use was continued until, at the present time, it has almost entirel}^ sujiplanted the starch bandage and other modes of dressings for simple fractures of the leg. In this institution it is applied as soon as the swelling of the limb has subsided, and it then makes a permanent splint for the limb. Its advantages are: its facil- ity of application, and its perfect adaptation to the limb, being borne by the patient better than any other form of appara- tus. It never gives rise to undue pressure over the salient points of the Kmb, and its property of absorbing moisture keeps the lind) perfectly dry, preA'enting the confinement of the perspiration, and thus doing away with one cause of irri- tation and excoriation. It may be applied Avith impunity over denuded surfaces and abrasions, Avithout danger of pro- ducing any irritation, slight excoriations or abrasions healing readily under it. Its advantages over the starch l)andage are its rapidity of drying and hardening, the plaster taking about five minutes * llepublishcd in American Medical Times, during Mny, 1801.7 " to set," loliile heiny held hij the surgeon in its lyropev jjosi- tion,; the starcli apparatus requiring several clays to diy un- less artificial lieat is applied. Anotlier advantage is, tliat tlie limb can be inspected daily if necessary, without removing all tlie a])paratus. It, therefore, can be applied much earlier tlian the starch bandao-e. This form of dressing tor tractures, used ;is a means of trans- porting the Avounded, has been but little used in this wai-. Dr. Swan applied it to several cases of fractures after the seven days' light before Richmond, during M'Clellan's cam- paign, and the patients were comfortal)ly transported to Wash- ington. Louis Stromeyer Little, Assistant Surgeon to London Hospi- tal, writing from the seat of war at Schleswig, states that " Plaster of Paris is universally employed in compound frac- tures. In ten of the femur particularly, it answered very well; the patient could bear to have the limb moved aljout, and all seemed in a fair way to recover."'^ In military surgery, the advantages it possesses o\'er other forms of dressings are the rapidity with which it dries and adapts itself to the parts, and the fact that it forms such a firm, hard casing, permitting the Hndj to be handled and moved with great ease during any transportation that may l)e iieces- sary to place the patient in more comfortable f[uarters. And if applied so as to leave a portion of the limb uncovered, there is no danger from swelling. Windows can be cut in the splint, so as to allow the wounds to be exposed and dressed. Cooling lotions may be applied without injury to the dressings. Materials necessary for the A2yplication of Plaster of Paris jSjjlints on the Field. 1st. Old coarse muslin, or Canton flannel. 2d. Fine, well dried Plaster of Paris, put up in air-tiglit tin cans, each containing from four to ten pounds of plaster. * London Lancet, A.])Xi\, 18G4,8 3d. R(j11ci- bandages, K\iital)le for the upper and lower ex- tremities, say two inches wide and five yards lon<^ for tlie upper extremity, and three inclies wide and six yards long for the lower extremit_y. 4th. Tin l)asins for mixing the plaster. Ifode of Application.—As these splints consist of several thicknesses of muslin or canton flannel, saturated with a mix- t>n-e of plaster and water, and applied to the limb, the shape of the splint and the part of the limb to which it is applied must vary in different cases. Sometimes it may be the best to apply the dressing in separate pieces to the difl-erent sides of the limb, and to retain them with transverse bands of the same material. In other cases, and this in our experience is the simpler mode, the dressing should be in one piece, so as to make a partial casing for the limb, causing it to flt the limb accurately, by applying over it a roller bandage. This may be removed as soon as the splint becomes hard. The limb should be shaven or lightly oiled, to prevent the hairs from sticking to the splints. The Canton flannel or old muslin is then to be cut of the proper size and shape. If the material used is very coarse, it will not be necessary to make it of more than two or three thicknesses. Two thicknesses of Canton flannel make the best kind of splints. Windows should be cut out, so as to allow the wounds to remain uncovered. After this has been done, the j^laster should l)e prepared. Ecpial parts of plaster and water are about the right proportions.'^ If it is necessary that the plaster should "set" cpiickly, a small quan- tity of salt should be dissolved in the water before adding the plaster. If in any case delay is necessary, the addition of a small f[uantity of carpenters' glue, mucilage or starch, will subserve that end. The plaster should be sprinkled in the water until the proper quantity is added, and then allowed to * It has been stated that a very Ikjhl and porous splint may be made by pi'cpai'ing the phisler paste, as follows: Gypsum, 75 parts, by weight- Water, 100 parts. Starch, to 2 parts, "9 reinaliia few seconds before mixiiig it. The mixture slioiild be about the consistence of cream. Tlie clotli unfolded, if in one piece, sliould tlien lie immersed in the solution and thorou<;'ldy saturated. It is tlien to be folded and laid on a flat surface, sucli as a board or table, and smoothed out M-ith the hand, in order to remove anv irre"'ularities of its surface, and then, with the help of an assistant, ap])lied to the lind), and a roller bandage put on snug-l}' over it. The lind) is then t(j be held in proper position (extension being made, if necessary, l)j the surgeon) until the plaster solidities. The time recpiired in preparing the cloth, mixing the plaster, and a])pljing it to the lind), need not take more than fifteen minutes. After the dressing has become hard, it is best to i-emove the I'oller and re-apply it more loosely, and in many cases it may be dispensed with altogether. Cold water and othei* lotions may be freely applied to the exposed portions of the liml) without injury to the splint. This dressing may be used with advantage in fi-actures of the humerus, forearm, and leg, and injuries involving the elbow, knee, and ankle joints. After excisions, there is no form of dressing which is so applicable. We M-ill now describe its application to special fractures, connnencing with Fractures of the Leg.—The limb should be shaven or lightly oiled, and the wounds covered with lint. A piece of Canton flannel should then be selected, of a size so that when doubled it should be wide enough to encircle tlie leg for a little more than half its circumference, and of suthcient length to extend from below the knee to about five inches below the heel. In order to make the splint fit the lind) neatly, it is a good plan to cut the Canton flannel after a paper pattens previously ai prepared. The shape of this pattern is represented in fig. 1. Openings should be cut at the proper places, so as to Fiy.i.10 allow tlie wounds to remain uncovered. Tlie flannel is then unfolded and immersed in the mixture of ])laster and water, prepared as above stated, then folded and laid evenly imder the leg. The bones are then to be put in the proper position, and the flannel is smoothly a})- plied to the leg. The portion indicated by the dotted line (a) extending Ijelow the heel is turned up against the sole of the foot, and the sides folded over the dorsnm, and a fold made at the ankle on either side, and a roller bandage applied lirndy over all. The limb is then to be held in proper posi- tion until the plaster becomes hard. This takes but a few minutes. The roller can then be removed and the splint or casing will be as represented in fig. 2. The ante- rior surface of the limb is exposed, so that the position of the fragments can readily be ascertained without removing' the casino; The wound can now 1)0 dressed and a roller bandage may be applied from the toes to the knee, or strips of adhesive plaster ma}^ be passed around the splint, and the roller dispensed Avith. Transverse bands of cloth, saturated in plaster, as seen in fig. 5, may also be applied. As the swelling of the limb subsides, and the splint becomes loose, it can be rendered tight b}^ means of a roller. Thus dressed, a fractured leg may be moved about "with safety and comfort to the patient. I/i wounds or other injuries of the hiee joint, or after ex- cision, one of the most important points in the treatment is the perfect (piietude of the part. An^^ form of splint can be made by this dressing, which will fit the part accurately, and be as firm as can be desired. Fractures of the Femur.—In fractures of the middle and lower end of this bone, this dressing may be used for the pur- pose of adding to the patient's comfort during transportation.11 If used on tlio field before swelling of tlic linil) lias oceuiTcd, it would be well to apply it iu the form of a easinii;, leaving the wound and a poi-tion of the antei'ior surface of the liiid) ex- posed, as in fractures of the leg. It would be necessary to make the splint extend from the pelvis to the heel, in order to hold the limb firndy. It may be a])])lied in two pieces, one extending from the foot to the knee, as in fractures of the leg, and the other slightly overlapping the first, from the knee to the pelvis. Over these successively a roller should l)e ap- plied, and extension kept up until the casing has become hard. The roller should then be removed, and strips of bandage tied around the spliid'. at several jdaces. Cold water dressings may now be appled to the exposed wounds. If the patient has remained in a hospital until the swelling has hegun to suhside, and is then to he removed, it might be well to !vp})ly it in the following manner: Splints about six inches wide, and long enough to extend from the pelvis to the heel, made of two thicknesses of Canton flannel, satui'ated in the mixture of plaster of Paris and water, are to 1)0 laid along the anterior and posterior surfaces, or on the sides of the find), and four or five transverse l)ands of the ^ame materi;d passed around the lind) at different places, and the whole applied snugly to the limb by means of a roller. After the })laster "sets" the roller should he removed and reapplied or dis- pensed with, according to the judgment of the surgeon. The difficulty in fvpplying such large dressings is, that some portion of the s])lint is liable to solidify before the whole is pi'operly ap})lied. It may therefore be necessary to delay the "setting" by the addition of a small quantity of mucilage or carpenters' glue, or by adding some fresh boiled starch to the water before mixing in the plaster. I would state that I do not consider this dressing at all a])- plicable to the treatment of fractures of the thigh bone, but reconnnend its use only as a means of transporting patients with this injury. The treatment by extension, as recom- mended by Dr. Gurdon Buck, of this city, is one of the best, and certainly one of the simplest methods for treating any12 form onVacturc of tlicfennir, and sliould be applied aBsooii as the patient ai'i-ives at the MSI ^^o^P^^^l wliere he is to re- In fractures of the Im- merus this expedient may bensed, and slionld extend from the slionhler to the liand. Fenestrffimay beent so as to expose the wonnds, ^.^ as represented in fit^. 3. For fractures in the vicinity of and involving the elhoir- joint, Avhich require the arm to be kept in a fixed position, this is decidedly the best mode of dressing. For this purpose an- gular splints made of tin, gutta perch, or paste-board, are commonly used, and all require some little time for their con- struction. The plaster of Paris splint can be made in live minutes, and will lit itself to the inequalities of the arm more accu- rately than any other. Fig. 4 represents aii angular splint applied to a gun-shot "wound invol- ving the elbow-joint. Fio". 5 shows a splint applied to the anterior sur- face of the arm, and retained by the transverse bands a. a. This drawing Avas tahen from a patient who was Fii,. 5. wouiuled at thebat- tleof Cross-Keys. A roimd bullet entered the elbow-joint. The patient came under my observation two weeks after tlie injury.13 Tlio joint was very uuicli swollen, and on examination the ball was fonnd and removed throuMi tlic wound. Free incisions Avere necessary around tlie joint. This form of splint was ap- })lied, and worn witliout removal for over one month. At the end of that time it was necessary to a])ply a new one. The wounds could readily he dressed. Dui'in<>; the course of the ti'eatment the head of the radius came away, having heen broken off by the ball. This patient recovered, with some degree of motion in the joint. In f ractures of the forearm it may be applied in a manner represent- ed in fig. G, and forms a very com- fortable and con- venient dressing, the patient gen- erally being able to keep his arm in his coat-sleeve. Three thicknesses of old muslin nudces a lighter and better splint f 'r this })urpose than the Canton flamiel. This splint may be retained by transverse bands, as in tigs, -i and 5, or Ijy the application of a roller. In fraciures (f the loioerjato a good splint can be made and retained by bandages in the usual way. We have now described the application of the Plaster of Paris splints to some of the varieties of compound fractures which are likely to occur in military surgery. In most cases we have reconmiended it oid}' as a dressing for transportation. There are, however, many cases of com}K)und fractures in which this kind of si)lint may be used during the Avhole course of treatment. In. fractures of the leg, in injuries involv- ing the knee, ankle and elbow joints ; in fractures of the fore- arm and humerus, it can almost always be used with advan- tage. In simple fractures of these parts, where the displace- ment can ])e easily reduced, there is no better form ofdressing.VJTH[ UNIIED STATES SANlTAMMISSlOi, T.I ISll