ICES AND HOW TO MAKE THEM. A POPULAR TREATISE ON CREAM, WATER, AND FANCY DESSERT ICES, ICE PUDDINGS, MOUSSES, PARFAITS, GRANITES, COOLING CUPS, PUNCHES, ETC. BY CHARLES HERMAN SENN, Author of “ The New Century Cookery Book,” “ Practical Gastronomy“ Recherchi Cookery,” “ Recherche Side Dishes,” “ Breakfast and Supper Dishes“ Culinary En cyclop cedi a,” “ The Cookery Manual,” “French Menus,” “ Recherche Luncheon and Dinner Sweets,” “ Omelets,” etc., etc. THIRD EDITION. (Revised and Enlarged.) Published by the FOOD AND COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, LONDON, S.W.i VVllLCGME institute LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. CONTENTS. Preface ... The Art of Ice Making Cream Ices ... Water Ices Sorbets, Granites, Punch, etc. Parfaits, Mousses and Souffles Glaces Fantaisies (Fancy Ices) Cooling Cups, etc General Index PAGE 3 5 ... 18 34 ... 46 ... 63 75 97 103PREFACE. This little Manual, which was already proved most useful by its former editions, will doubtless in its revised form maintain its popularity as a guide book for preparing frozen dainties. The book has met the test of hundreds of ex- perienced cooks and received their hearty approval. The author’s claim that it would fill a want felt by the confectionery branch of the trade has been fully realised. Most cookery books contain recipes for ices (reliable and otherwise); but only in a very few instances has this subject been assigned a separate volume. The present edition, besides being revised and improved, contains a number of new ways of preparing ices for table, as well as several new illustrations. The art of making ices has always been one or the most fascinating branches in cookery, and in compiling the various recipes in this book the author has endeavoured to exercise every possible care to meet the present-day requirements of cooks and caterers, so as to provide for the actual needs of those who are desirous of cultivating this useful and essential branch, which justly belongs to the pleasures of the table. C. H. S. April, 1907.By C. HERMAN SENN. Dedicated by special permission to H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF WALES. ^ HIS voluminous work may be justly termed the most up-to-date Book on Cookery, for it is a veritable Culinary Dictionary written by a prac- tical chef, who is eminently qualified for the task involved in bringing out so important a work. The Author, in compiling menus and recipes, has striven to combine economy with excellence, based on his experience in the old century, with the new cen- tury’s ideas and requirements. Every- thing pertaining to Recherche Cookery is found in this book — being an ex- haustive treatise on the ever-interesting- subjects, Cookery and Gastronomy. No less than 5,000 Recipes, Cooking Methods and Menus, together with over 400 Illustrations, are given. Price 21/= Edition de Luxe, 33/= THE FOOD AND COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, 329, VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD, VICTORIA STATION, S.W.5 The Art of Ice Making. IT is said that ices were originally intro^ duced by Catherine de Medici in the sixteenth century ; at that time only so-called water ices and iced drinks were known. It was about this time that the French people learned how to freeze water artificially ; whilst water ices, shaped in moulds, were first served in France in 1660. Soon after this they were introduced into England. Ices de- rive their present great popularity from America, where they are consumed during the winter as well as summer months in enormous quantities. Cream ices, such as we now have, are comparatively of re- cent invention, for when these were first introduced they were very primitive com- pared with the deliciously - flavoured, coloured, and artistically-shaped ices of the present day. Broadly speaking, ices are divided into two cases, viz. : the cream or custard ice and the water ice. There are, of course, numerous ways of preparing and of freezing both water and cream ices. The many changes which of late years have taken place in the fashions of table have brought about considerable improve- ments in the matter of ices, so' much so that their preparation and the service of ices has become one of the “ fine arts of the cuisine.” At every so-called regular6 set-dinner, ices are invariably served in several varieties and styles. There are some hundreds of different kinds of ice preparations, which include the large varieties of moulded ices, souffles, sorbets, etc., served at the table, as well as the simpler kinds on sale at the confectioners’ and refreshment places, where the general public may partake of these cooling dainties in their rambles through our towns. A DOUBLE ICE FREEZING MACHINE. The making of ices is not a difficult process, although jt is often difficult to obtain a really good ice. The principal reason of failure is mostly found to lie in the carelessness displayed in their manu- facture, and the inaccurate use of the correct proportions of ingredients. Ices may be divided into' three classes : ci. The custard or cream ices. b. The water ices. c. The mousses, souffles, and sorbets.7 It is needless to say that there are various methods of making all three, although the principles—i.e., the founda- tions—are throughout alike, and the re- sult varies but little. APPLIANCES NECESSARY. A proper freezing pot, freezing ma- chine, or freezing apparatus is the first important item. It matters little what kind of make of machine is used, pro- SPATULAS FOR MIXING. PEWTER FREEZING POT. vided satisfactory results can be obtained. There are but few reliable machines in existence. To my mind, the ordinary and old-fashioned pewter freeing pot is far more satisfactory and reliable than many existing inventions in freezing machines. Copper pans or copper moulds should on no account be used for freezing ioe, be-8 cause the acids used in the preparation of the mixtures are apt to bring- about in- jurious effects to1 the ice. Except in the case of souffles, a pewter pot and pewter mould for freezing- should always be used, these being far more suitable for the pur- pose than anything else. Next to the pewter freezing pot, a spatula and wooden tub are necessary. The freezing tub should be provided with a plug-hole near or at the bottom, so that the water may be drawn off when necessary. The other accessories required will be basins, pans, THE MOUNTAIN ICE FREEZER. or pots, to hold the ice mixture. These should be of earthenware, tinned, or enamelled metal pots or basins. I do not recommend copper pans at all in this case, and give preference to thick earthenware basins or bowls. An ice pick for breaking up ice is also' required. Wooden spoons for stirring the mixtures, one or two spatulas for scraping down the ice from the sides of the pot and for mixing (stir- ring) will also' be required. Next to these ice moulds are needed, a few ice pudding moulds, some fancy moulds for dessert9 ices, and, when Neapolitan ice is required, so-called Neapolitan frames are needed. ROUND ICE CAVE OR FREEZING CABINET. In making- souffle ice, a special appli- ance, known as ice cave, or ice chest, will IMPROVED ICE CAVE CABINET. be found most convenient and extremely useful. These will also serve for the pur-IO pose of keeping- ice puddings, etc., after they are frozen, because they will then keep perfect until required for serving. To ensure uniformity in syrups used for ice-making it is well to use a saccharometer, by which the strength of syrups can be quickly tested. The use of Senn’s saccharometer is strongly recommended, for by its use the operator can see at a glance the exact degree of heat of the syrup. The figures or stage of sug'ar boiling are given on the side of the instrument, and as it gives every grade that may be needed for all kinds of sugar boiling, from the small thread (petit filet ou lisse) to caramel, it recommends itself as a safe and reliable register. I need hardly add that every utensil or appliance used for making ices must . be scrupulously clean and dry, otherwise it is hardly possible to obtain satisfac- tory results. ON THE USE OF INGREDIENTS. Everything used for making ice must be fresh and of the best quality. Use fresh fruit whenever possible, and avoid the use of essences or essential oils. Jam or fruit pulp (pre- served) may be used as a substitute when fresh fruit is unobtainable or out of season. It is false economy tO' use inferior materials for ices, because the best, al- though the price is a little11 higher, will go much further, and the ices will have a finer flavour, and will, conse- quently, give greater satisfaction. ON FREEZING. The freezing of ices is no longer a secret process, for this operation can now be seen at almost every street corner. I deem it, however, essential to give a few practical hints on the process of freezing, because the mere fact of seeing somebody turning the freezing pot does not teach one the needful and proper methods necessary for making successful ices. The object of freezing is to reduce the temperature, and in this case we need the help of ice and salt to make the mixture more or less solid. In this the best re- sults are obtained by the use of rough ice and so-called freezing salt (coarse salt).12 Seven or eight pounds of ice to one pound of salt are considered the correct propor- tions to use. It is a great mistake to> use more salt than one pound to eight pounds of ice. Some will add more salt, with a view of making the contents of the freez- ing pot freeze more quickly. This will, of course, be effective for a time, but very shortly after the ice will become reduced to water, and the freezing operation must then come to a standstill. The following are the directions for preparing the freezing pot ready for freezing creams, fruit syrups, pulps, etc. : Crush or pound the ice, put a layer of ice at the bottom of the freezing tub (see illus- tration), sprinkle over some salt, then place the freezing pot in the centre ; see that the lid of the pot is put on securely. The reason of my recommending the freezing pot to be fixed on the top of a layer of ice is because it will revolve much more easily and more quickly. Continue to' fill the sides of the pot and pail or tub with crushed ice and salt in alter- native layers. After the freezing pot has been turned for a short time, some of the ice around it will sink, when the tub or pail must be replenished with more crushed ice and salt. When this is done wipe AMERICAN FREEZER.i3 the top of the freezing pot with a wet cloth, and place a damp cloth or a piece of sacking (damped) on the top of theice, between the pot and tub or pail. This is done to prevent the escape of frost, and to keep out the warm air. When this is done lift off the lid of the pot, wipe care- fully the inside of it, and pour in the mix- MOULD FOR NEAPOLITAN ICE BRICKS. ture you wish to freeze ; replace the lid tightly, and proceed to turn the pot by the handle of the lid as quickly as possi- ble. Use one hand only for turning. In a very short time a thin coating of the frozen mixture will be noticed on the side of the freezing pot ; this must be ■■ THREE ROSES ” NEAPOLITAN MOULD. scraped down with the spatula, and as soon as another layer is formed it must be dealt with in the same manner ; but each time the mixture should be well worked up (mixed) with the spatula. This and the turning is continued until the mix- ture has acquired the desired consistency —i.e.j a creamy mass. When a freezingmachine is used the process is practically the same as above described. When icing mousses, souffles, sorbets, granites, coffee, etc., the process of freezing is somewhat different ; but in such cases I will give the needful directions when deal- ing with the respective recipes of these dishes. When the mixture above described has frozen sufficiently firm, the water should be drawn off from the pail or tub, and when it is desired to keep it for some time longer in the pot before moulding or serv- ing it, more ice (crushed ice) should be put in the tub. Very little salt should be used when refilling. In lifting the lid off the freezing pot, great care must be taken so as not to get any salt into the mixture, for if the least quantity of salt should get into it, the whole of the ice mixture is likely to be- come spoilt. FREEZING WITHOUT ICE. The following ingredients can be used with very fair success for freezing where ice is scarce or unobtainable. Although dearer to> use than ice and salt, it will be found most useful by those who are un- able to get ice : — Take 2 parts of sulphate of soda, 1 part of muriate of ammonia, 1 part of nitrate of potash. Pound separately each ingre- dient in a mortar, and mix with water ; 4 ounces of the above mixed with about 1 gallon of water will make a good freez- ing mixture. THE ACTION OF FREEZING. Ice, being colder than water, has to re- ceive heat in order to melt into water. Crush some ice and mix it with coarsei5 salt. Place in it a mould or glass shape filled with plain or coloured water. Cover it, and put more ice and salt on top. In a short time the salt will cause the ice to melt, and cause the liquid in the mould to freeze into a solid mass. In this manner the shape used for dressing ices upon, referred to elsewhere, are prepared. The operation is simple, and requires but little experience. USEFUL HINTS AND RULES ON ICE- MAKING. Before dealing with the individual re- cipes for making ices I shall give the following simple rules and hints, which should be strictly observed by those who desire to benefit by the recipes and in- structions given on the subject—• 1. Do not put hot or warm mixtures into the freezing pot, as by so doing much of the ice will get wasted. 2. Be careful in weighing and measur- ing the various ingredients required. Use the exact proportions stated in each recipe. 3. Keep a quantity of syrup on hand. If kept in corked bottles it will keep good for a long period, and will always be ready when wanted. 4. In adding sweetening ingredients, sugar or syrups, remember that too much sugar will prevent the ice mixture from getting firm, whilst too little sugar will cause it to freeze too hard. 5. Avoid, as much as possible, the use of tin or copper utensils in the manu- facture of ices, because, by their use, an objectionable flavour is often introduced, and the ices are apt to get discoloured. 6. Keep the mixtures to be frozen outi6 of the freezing pot until you are ready to attend to- the process of freezing. 7. In colouring and flavouring ices use harmless vegetable colours, fresh ripe or preserved fruits and liqueurs, and get the best and purest obtainable. 8. Do' not take the lid off the freezer before the lid is carefully wiped, so that no salt can possibly get into> the mixture. 9. In moulding ices, press in the mix- ture tightly, and wrap the mould in white paper ; avoid the use of fat or lard to cover the openings ; the paper will do this. CYPRIAN ICE MOULD AND LINING. THE MOULDING OF ICES. See that the moulds you wish to use are thoroughly clean and dry ; put in the frozen mixture (cream or water-ice mix- ture). Shake it down, and press well into PLAIN “BOMB MOULDS.”r7 MOUSSE MOULD AND LINING FOR MOUSSES, PARFAITS, ETC. the mould. Close up the mould, and if any leakage should be ap- parent, cover it with a little butter or lard ; this is needed when old moulds are used. Wrap up the mould or moulds with kitchen paper, and bury in a pail of crushed ice and salt (use 3 parts of ice and i part of salt) ; keep it thus for about two hours. UNMOULDING AND SERVING ICES. 1 When the ice is required to be served, take out the mould, remove the paper and the butter or lard (when the latter is used), dip the mould for a few seconds into cold water (tepid water may be used, but more care is then required), and turn out into a dish, the same as you would turn out a jelly. Garnish the dish with a few ice wafers or ice bis- cuits, and send to table at once. BARREL SHAPE MOULD. THE RECIPES. Having explained the necessary preli- minaries for ice making, I shall deal with the individual recipes for making the various mixtures. In giving these recipes, whether for cream ices, water ices, fancy ices, souffles, B18 or sorbets, I have tried to give, as near as possible, the correct quantities of ingre- dients needed ; but as the amount of sweetening—sugar or syrup—required de- pends to1 a large extent upon the kind and quality of fruit employed, the quantities of sugar or syrup given should be regarded CORNUCOPIA MOULD. as the approximate items. The quality of most fresh fruits as regards to sweet- ness is more or less impaired in wet or dry seasons. This is one of the reasons why some special care is required in the use of sugar or other sweetening ingredi- ents, as far as fruit ices are concerned. The quantities given are, unless otherwise stated, calculated for a full service (6-8 persons) ; if more or less is required, the ingredients can easily be increased or decreased, as the case may be. CREAM ICES* Most cream ices are prepared from a foundation mixture known as “custard.” In cases where custard is employed, allow the latter to be cooled before the flavour-19 ing ingredient or ingredients are added Custards in general must never be allowed to boil ; they contain eggs as a liaison, and, if allowed to boil, the custard would curdle, and the ice would be spoilt. 1.—GLACE A LA CREME DE VANILLE. VANILLA ICE.—No. 1. Ingredients, i pint cream. J pint milk. % vanilla pod. 5 oz. castor sugar. 6 yolks of eggs. Method.—Put the eggs into a clean basin, and whisk with the castor sugar. Boil the milk and cream together in a well-rinsed stew-pan ; add the vanilla pod. Pour this on the beaten eggs, stir well, and return the lot to> the stew-pan. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till it begins to thicken and the mixture coats the spoon, or, in other words, till the custard clings tO' the spoon. Remove the vanilla pod. Pass through a fine strainer or tammy. Add the vanilla again, and remove it when the custard is cool. Freeze as directed, and mould, if desired, or keep in the freezing pot till required. CUSTARD FOR ICES. 2.—VANILLA ICE CREAM—No. 2. Ingredients, i pint milk. \ pint cream. 6 yolks of eggs. \ vanilla pod. 5 oz. castor sugar. Method.—Boil the milkwith the vanilla pod, add the sugar. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir the boiling milk gradually into the eggs, return to the20 stew-pan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the custard is formed— i.e., till it clings to the spoon. Do not allow it to boil. Strain ; when cool add the cream. Allow the vanilla pod to> re- main in the custard till wanted for freez- ing. When done with, wipe it and dry it. Keep it in a tin with castor sugar ; it can then be employed over and over again. F'reeze the custard in the usual way. 3. —VANILLA ICE CREAM—No. 3. Ingredients. ij 'pints of milk. i heaped-up dessert-spoonful cornflour. 4 whole eggs. 6 oz. castor sugar. i teaspoonful vanilla essence. i gill cream. The juice of half a lemon. Method.—Boil the milk, add the sugar, mix the cornflour with a little cold milk, beat up the yolks of eggs, and add to the cornflour. Pour the hot milk gradually on to this, stirring' all the time. Return all to> the stewpan, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till it thickens without boiling, then strain and let cool. Add the strained lemon juice, the vanilla essence, and the cream. Lastly, whisk the whites of eggs, and add to the mixture. It is then ready for freezing. 4. —VANILLA ICE CREAM—No. 4. Put A oz. cornflour into a basin, add gradually i| pints of milk, put it on the fire, and add 5 oz. castor sugar ; stir till it boils. Cook for six minutes, then strain. When cool add half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence and a little saffron to give it the desired tint of custard. Freeze as above.21 5.—CREAM ICES, PREPARED FROM PRE- SERVED FRUIT, JAMS, Etc. Ingredients. i pint milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 6 oz. preserved fruit pulp or jam, such as strawberry, raspberry, greengage, apri- cot, peach, etc. i gill to J pint cream. Sugar if needed. Method.—Boil the milk, put the egg yolks in a basin, whisk them a little, and stir in gradually the hot milk. Put this back into the pan, and stir over the fire until it thickens, without allowing it to boil, and strain into a basin. Heat up the jam or fruit pulp. A little lemon juice may be added if liked, also a few drops of water. When dissolved, rub it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the custard above prepared. When quite cold, add the cream ; the latter should be whipped. Colouring, such as carmine, spinach greening, saffron, etc., according to the kind of fruit-preserve used, must be added at the last. As all fruit-preserves vary somewhat in the quantity of sugar they contain, it may be found necessary to add a little syrup or castor sugar in addition to the above ingredients. 6.—GLACE A LA CREME DE FRAISES. (Strawberry Cream Ice.) Ingredients. i pint vanilla cream (No. i). i lb. strawberries. 4 oz. castor sugar. The juice of half a lemon. A few drops of liquid carmine. Method.—Remove the stalks from the strawberries ; the fruit must be selected22 quite ripe. Rub the fruit through a tammy or hair sieve, add the sugar, lemon juice (strained), and sufficient carmine to give it a deep red tint. Mix with the vanilla cream or custard, and freeze. 7.—STRAWBERRY CREAM ICE. Ingredients, i quart milk. \ oz. cornflour. i lb. strawberries. 8 oz. castor sugar. 4 eggs. A little liquid carmine. \ gill cream. Juice of 2 lemons. Method.—Mix the corn- flour with a little cold milk. Boil up the milk, add the sugar, stir the yolks and whites of eggs in a basin with the corn- flour. Pour on to it the boiling milk, and stir over the fire till it thickens. Do not allow it to boil ; then strain into' a basin, and let it cool. Pick the strawberries, mash them up, and rub them through a fine sieve. When ready for freezing, add the fruit pulp and the cream to the pre- pared custard ; mix well, and colour with a few drops of carmine and the lemon juice. If liked, the whites of the eggs may be whisked till stiff and added to the mixture before commencing the freezing process. 8.—GLACE A LA CREME DE FRAMBOISE. (Raspberry Cream Ice.) Ingredients. i f>int vanilla cream or custard (formulcc Nos. i, 2, 3 or 4). i lb. raspberries. 6 oz. castor sugar.The juice of half a lemon. •' / A few drops of liquid carmine. Method.—Rub the fruit through a hair sieve or tammy, add to it the sugar and lemon juice, and mix with the cream. Finish as above. Note.—The cream or custard used for this ice should be made without any vanilla flavour. 9.—FRESH FRUIT CREAM ICE. Ingredients, i pint milk. \ pint cream. About 8 oz. sugar. \ pint fresh fruit pulp i lemon. The white of an egg. Method.—Boil the milk, add the sugar, and let cool. Add the juice of one lemon to the fruit pulp, pour the sweetened milk on to this, and stir well. Whisk the cream till stiff, and add also1. When the mixture is partially frozen, add the whisked white of an egg, and finish the freezing. Mould and serve rough in glasses. Note.—Any kind of fruit pulp may be used in this way ; the quantity of sugar is from io oz. to 12 oz., according to the kind of fruit used. If too sweet the freez- ing will become most difficult, whilst, on the other hand, if the mixture is not sweet enough, the ice will become too1 solid.24 10. —GLACE A LA CREME DE CITRON. (Lemon Cream Ice.) Ingredients. 1 pint cream (formulae Nos. 1-4) 2 lemons. 4 oz. loaf sugar. Method.—In using- the cream for this ice, any of the recipes 1-4 may be fol- lowed, but it must contain no other flavouring- than that of lemon. Rub the lumps of sug-ar on the rinds of the lemons until all the yellow part of the rind is extracted. Put the sugar in a stew-pan with just enough water (warm) to cover ; allow it to dis- solve, and add to the cream. A little yellow colour or saffron ex- tract can be added if liked ; this is not, however, essential. Strain the juice of 1 lemon, and add also. The mixture is then ready for freezing. 11. —GLACE A LA CREME D’ORANGE. (Orange Cream Ice.) Ingredients. ij pints cream {formulce Nos. 2 or 3). 3 oranges. Colouring. 2 oz. loaf sugar. Method.—Rub the rind of an orange on the pieces of sugar, put the sugar with the orange zest thus obtained in the stew- pan, add a few drops of water, and let dissolve over the fire; cut the orange in25 halves, and strain the juice into the syrup. When cold mix with the prepared cream, add a few drops of carmine and a little saffron essence to give the mixture the desired orange tint, and freeze in the usual way. 12.—GLACE A LA CREME DE GINGEMBRE. (Ginger Cream Ice.) Cut up 2 or 3 oz. of preserved ginger into small dice, put this with a little of the ginger syrup into ij pints of cream (formulas Nos. 2 or 3), and freeze. Mould, and pack in ice and salt till wanted for table. 13.—GLACE AU PAIN BIS. (Brown Bread Cream Ice.) Ingredients. 1 pint cream (custard) (formula Nos. 1-4). 3 oz. brown bread-crumbs. 1 oz. pounded macaroons (sifted). 1 teaspoonful brandy or Kirsch. ^ gill cream. Method.—Put the bread- crumbs and macaroons in a basin, and pour over the brandy or Kirsch, add the cream, and let soak. Com- mence to freeze the custard, and when half frozen add the above ; continue to freeze, and mix well till finished. Mould, and set in ice and salt till required for table. 14.—GLACE A LA CREME D’ANANAS. (Pineapple Cream Ice.) Rub \ lb. of finely-minced or pounded pineapple (preserved) through a sieve, add to it the juice of ^ a lemon and | gill26 of pineapple syrup. Mix this with a pint of vanilla cream (No. 3). Freeze, and mould in the usual way. 15.—GLACE A LA CREME PRALINEE. (Burnt Almond Cream Ice.) Ingredients. ij pints vanilla cream (No. 3). 2 oz. French almond rock. 1 oz. almonds. J gill cream. 1 table-spoonful Kirsch. Method.—Blanch and peel the al- monds, dry and shred them, and put them at the month of the oven, and let them ac- quire a light brown colour. Pound the French almond rock in a mortar till fine, add the browned almonds, and pound like- wise ; put all into a basin, and pour on the prepared cream. Whisk the cream and freeze ; when partly frozen add the Kirsch liqueur, mix thoroughly, and finish freezing to the desired consistency. Mould and pack away in ice and salt till required. 16.—GLACE A LA CREME DE NOISETTE. (Hazel Nnt or Filbert Nut Cream Ice.) Ingredients. ij pints vanilla cream (No. 3). 4 oz. hazel or filbert nuts, peeled, baked, and pounded. J- gill orange-flower water. \ gill cream. Method.—Mix all the above ingredi- ents, and freeze in the usual way.27 17.—GLACE AUX CERISES. (Cherry Cream Ice.) Ingredients. | lb. ripe cherries. The juice of i lemon. 2 oz. castor sugar. i liqueur glass full of Kirschwasser. 1 pint rich custard (No. 3). Liquid carmine to colour. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Stone the fruit, crack the stones, take out the kernels, put the cherries and kernels in a basin or pie-dish, add the sugar, lemon juice, and Kirsch- wasser, cover, and let stand for half an hour. Then pour all into a copper stew- pan, add about | pint of water, and cook till the fruit is tender. Rub the fruit, etc., through a fine sieve, and mix with the prepared custard ; add a few drops of liquid carmine to give it the desired tint. Freeze when cold in the usual manner ; mould, and pack the mould in crushed ice and salt. Allow about two hours for the ice to set, and serve when required for table. 18.—GLACE A LA CREME DE NOIX. (Walnut Cream Ice.) Ingredients. i| pints cream custard (No. 3). 4 oz. walnuts. 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. 1 white of egg. 1 table-spoonful Maraschino. Method.—Blanch and peel the wal- nuts. Put them in the oven, and bake a pale brown colour ; when cold, pound and sift ; add to it the orange-flower water and the Maraschino liqueur. Freeze the28 cream in the usual way ; add the walnut puree when half frozen, also the white of an egg- previously whisked to a stiff froth ; mix thoroughly, and finish freezing. Mould in the usual way, and serve when required. 19. —GLACE A LA CREME DE BANANES. (Banana Cream Ice.) Ingredients. 6-8 ripe bananas. 3 lemons. i pint custard. \ pint cream. i small glass Cur ago a or Cognac brandy. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Peel the bananas, and rub them through a sieve into a basin ; add the juice of two' lemons and the liqueur. Stir the custard into this, whip the cream, and add at the last. Put the mixture in a freezer, and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in a pile or in cups, or mould it, if the latter be preferred. 20. —CUSTARD FOR BANANA CREAM ICE. Ingredients, i pint milk. 4 oz. lump sugar. 6 yolks of eggs, and flavouring. Method.—Boil up the milk, add the sugar. When dissolved, stir this over the yolks of eggs, previously beaten. Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; it must not boil. Pass through a sieve, add the flavour, and use as directed.29 21.—GLACE A LA CREME DE CARAMEL. (Caramel Cream Ice.) Ingredients. 2 oz. loaf sugar. | gill cream. ij pints vanilla cream (No. 3 stir over a clear fire with a wooden spoon or a wooden spatula. When the sugar acquires a transparent brown colour—not burnt—it should register 340 deg. on Senn’s saccharometer. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the cream. Boil up, and strain into' the prepared custard ; freeze and mould as usual. 22.—GLACE AUX AMANDES BRULEES. (Burnt Almond Cream Ice.) Proceed in the same manner as the last recipe, but substitute a glass of Kirsch for the Benedictine liqueur, and add to the cream 2 oz. of almonds, blanched, shredded, and roasted a brown colour before you commence to freeze. 23.—GLACE A LA SAXON. (Saxon Cream Ice.) Ingredients. 6 yolks of eggs. 4 oz. castor sugar. i\ pints cream. 4 oz. macaroons. 1 small glass Maraschino. 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence or 1 in. vanilla pod. Ice and freezing salt. formula). 1 small liqueur glass Benedictine. Method.—Put the sugar in a copper pan with a few drops of water ; 130 Method.—Put the yolks of egg's in a basin, add the su- gar, and beat up over a pan of boil- ing water until it has the appearance and consistency of batter ; then add half the cream and the vanilla, and continue to stir over the fire until nearly boiling, though the mix- * pyramid mould. ture must on no account be allowed to boil. Place the macaroons in a cool oven, and bake slowly for about ten minutes, then pound them and pass them through a fine sieve. When the mixture is quite cold, add the remainder of the cream and the sifted macaroons. Put it in the freezer pre- viously prepared (set in a pail surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt), and freeze in the usual manner. Add the liqueur when half frozen. Mould in a pyramid shape, or serve in a rough pile. 24.—CREME GLACEE DE BANANES. (Banana Cream Ice.—No. 2.) Ingredients. 4 large ripe bananas. i large lemon. i glass Maraschino or Curagoa. i pint cream (formula No. 3). Method.—Peel the bananas, and rub the fruit through a sieve, or pound it to a pulp, and rub through a sieve afterwards, add the strained juice of one lemon to> the fruit pulp, also the glass of liqueur, mix31 well with the cream ; freeze in the usual way, and mould or serve in a pile on a folded napkin or lace paper. A little fresh cream (about \ gull) may be added to the above if liked. 25.—GLACE AU CHOCOLAT. (Chocolate Cream Ice.) Ingredients. 4 oz. black chocolate. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. sugar if unsweetened chocolate is used. i pint vanilla cream (No. 2 or 3). \ gill cream. Method.—Cut the chocolate into small pieces, put it in a stew-pan with the milk, add the sugar if needed, and cook till the chocolate is dissolved. Now strain, and add it to the prepared custard cream. Let cool. Lastly, add \ gull whipped cream. Freeze and mould. 26.—GLACE A LA CREME D’ABRICOT. (Apricot Cream Ice.) Ingredients. ■ f 12 ripe apricots. 6 oz. castor sugar. 1 lemon. 1 pint fresh cream. Method. —• Stone the apricots, and put them, with six of the kernels, in a stew - pan ; cover with water, and cook till tender ; add the sugar, and rub through a hair sieve as soon as the sugar is melted. Add the juice of a lemon to> the fruit puree. Whisk the cream till stiff, and32 mix when the former is cold. Freeze as usual, and mould. Note.—A little saffron or saffron ex- tract may be added to the mixture SO' as to gave it a nice yellow tint. Peaches, yellow egg plums, pears, or any other kind of soft fruit can be made into ice cream in the same manner. 27.—GLACE A LA CREME DE PECHE. (Peach Cream Ice.) Ingredients. 3 large ripe peaches. J lemon. About 2 oz. sugar. i pint custard cream (No. 3). I pint double cream (sweetened). Method.—Cut the peaches in halves, take out the stones, break them and re- move the kernels ; put these with the halves of peaches into a copper pan with about a gill of water and enough sugar to taste (2-3 oz.) ; add the lemon rind (cut very thin) and the juice. Cook till the fruit is quite tender, then rub through a fine hair sieve. When the puree is cold, add it to the vanilla custard (No. 3 for- mula). Whisk up the fresh cream, and add likewise. Freeze, and mould it, or dress the ice rough on a pile on a folded napkin, garnish with ice wafers, and serve. A few drops of carmine may be added to the mixture, if liked, so as to give it a pink tint. 28.—THE GLACE A LA CREME. (Tea Cream Ice.) Make half pint of very strong tea, using scented tea in preference to ordinary tea. Add to it 2 oz. of sugar. When cold, mix with a pint of vanilla custard cream (No. 3) and a table-spoonful of double cream. Freeze the same as other ices.33 29.—GLACE A LA CREME DE POIRES. (Pear Cream Ice.) Ingredients. i lb. ripe Jargonelle or Bartlet pears. i lemon (strained juice and rind). i in. cinnamon (whole). 3 oz. sugar. i pint sweetened cream. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the pears ; put them in a pan with the sugar, two or three pieces of lemon rind, the lemon juice, and the cinnamon ; add enough water to cover the sugar ; stew slowly till tender, and rub through a hair sieve. When cool, mix with the sweetened cream, previously whipped. Freeze to a smooth cream. Mould or serve rough in a pile on a folded napkin or lace paper. 30.—THE GLACE A L’AMERICAINE. (American Tea Ice Cream.) Ingredients. 1 pint milk. 2 table-spoonfuls tea (dry). 4 whole eggs. i in. vanilla pod. 4-5 oz. castor sugar. J pint fresh cream. Method.—Boil up the milk and vanilla, and pour it on the tea ; cover it closely, allow it to stand for five minutes, then strain. Beat up the eggs till frothy, work in the castor sugar, and add this to the milk and tea. Return to the fire, stir 4 till it thickens (till the liquid coats the spoon with which it is stirred). Strain into a basin and let cool, then add the cream, previously whipped lightly. Freeze in the Usual manner* c34 31.—CREME AU CAFE GLACEE. (Coffee Cream Ice.) Ingredients. i \ oz. freshly-ground good coffee. 3 oz. sugar. i pint vanilla custard cream (No. 2 or 3). \ gill double cream. 1 glass Kirsch. Method.—Make a strong decoction of the coffee by pouring \ pint of boiling water over the ground coffee. Let it infuse well for half an hour, then strain, add the sugar, and let cool. Mix it with the prepared vanilla cream. Whip the cream, and add, together with the Kirsch liqueur. Freeze in the usual way, mould, or serve in glasses. 32.—ANOTHER WAY. Sweeten a pint of very strong coffee with 4 oz. of sugar. When cold add ij pints of good fresh cream, lightly whisked, and freeze. This ice is im- proved if the coffee is first partially frozen and the whipped cream is added after- wards. WATER ICES. So-called water ices are mostly pre- pared from the juices of ripe fruits, mixed with the needful proportion of syrup. In making these it must be borne in mind that if the mixture is made too sweet there will be a difficulty in the freezing, and as the sweetness of the various kinds of fruit differs, great and special care must be taken in mixing syrup with fruit pulps or fruit juices. In order to test the correct consistency of syrup, the use of a saccharometer is strongly advised.35 Syrups can, with advantage, be used for cream and mixed ices, ice puddings, mousses, souffles, sorbets, granites, etc. ; in fact, with all mixtures or drinks that are to be frozen where syrup is used these remarks are applicable. In such cases where fresh fruit is not obtainable jam is often used, and as all jams are made with sugar, it is essential that this be taken into consideration when mixing the syrup. 33.—SYRUP FOR WATER ICES.—No. 1. Ingredients. 2 lb. loaf sugar. i pint water. Method.—Put the sugar into a copper sugar-boiler, add the water, and let it stand till dissolved ; then place it on the fire, which must be bright and clear (not smoky). Allow it to boil ; remove the scum that rises to the surface, and boil it till it registers 220 deg. Fahr. on the saccharometer. Senn’s saccharometer is advised for this purpose, because it is most reliable in giving the correct degrees the syrup has reached in boiling. This instrument can be used for testing the heat of fat, or for registering the oven heat, as well as for sugar boiling, for it registers up to' 382 deg. Every degree, from boiling water to the degree of caramel, is marked in plain letters against the figures, denoting the exact state of heat. Senn's saccharometer is made in a solid brass casing, and is unbreakable ; price 7s. 6d. It can be obtained from the Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, or any first-class ironmonger.3^ 34.—SYRUP FOR WATER ICES.—No. 2. Put 3 lb. loaf sugar, a pinch of cream of tartar, and a quart of water into a copper boiler ; beat up the white and shell of an egg, and add to the above. Bring it to the boil, and allow tO' cook (boil) for about ten minutes. Remove the scum ; reduce to the desired consistency—i.e, 220 deg. on Sends saccharometer. Strain if necessary and let cool. The syrup is then ready for use. 35.—GLACE AU CONFITURE. (Water Ice made from Jam.) Ingredients. J lb. fruit jam. 1 pint water. The juice of one lemon. 2 oz. icing sugar. Colouring suited to the kind of jam used. Method.—Mix the ingredients above given, boil up, skim, add the colouring (use very little of this, and, if possible, only such as are made from vegetables), strain through a tammy cloth. Freeze when cold. 36.—GLACE A L’EAU DE VANILLE. (Vanilla Water Ice.) Ingredients. 1 quart syrup (No. 33 or 34). 2 inches of vanilla pod or one table-spoonful vanilla extract. The juice of two lemons. 1 pint water. A little saffron essence for colouring. Method.—Mix the saffron essence with a little syrup or water. If vanilla pod is used, split it open and boil with the syrup and the water. Mix the remainder of37 ingredients in a clean basin, and when cold strain through a fine hair sieve into the freezing pot. Freeze as directed, and mould. Almost every kind of water ice can be prepared in this manner, using fruit pulp or rich liqueurs, and colouring same according to the nature and the name of the ice. In all cases avoid making the mixture too' sweet. 37.—GLACE AU CITRON.—No. 1. (Lemon Water Ice.) Ingredients. ij pints syrup {No. 33). 6 lemons. 2 oranges. Method.—Peel thinly four lemons and one orange ; put them in a basin, and pour the syrup boiling hot over the rinds. Squeeze the juice of all the lemons and the oranges into the basin ; add also' a few drops of lemon essence or saffron colouring. Cover till cold ; then strain or tammy. The mixture is then ready for freezing. Can be served moulded or rough, in glasses. 38.—GLACE AU CITRON.—No. 2. (Lemon Water Ice.) Ingredients. 6 lemons. \ lb. loaf sugar. 1 pint water. Method.—Rub the lumps of sugar on the rinds of the lemons so as to re- move the yellow part, i.e., the essential oil. Put the sugar in a clean stew-pan, add38 the water, and boil far rather more than ten minutes. Skim, test the consistency by the saccharometer (it should register 220 deg.). Strain the syrup into a basin, add the juice of the lemons (strained), and set aside to cool. The mixture is then ready for freezing, and will make rather more than a pint of ice. 39.—GLACE A L’ORANGE. (Orange Water Ice.) Peel thinly four lemons and four oranges, pour i\ pints of hot syrup (No. 33) over the rind, add the juice of both lemons and oranges. Strain, and freeze when cold. A table-spoonful of liqueur, such as Curagoa or Benedictine, added to the above will greatly enhance the flavour. 40.—GLACE AUX TANGERINES. (Tangerine Water Ice.) Ingredients. 6 tangerines. 2 oranges. 2 lemons. \ lb. loaf sugar. 1 'pint syrup. Method.—Rub the lumps of sugar on the rind of the tangerines so as to* extract the essential oil, peel thinly one orange and one lemon ; put this in a stew-pan, add one gill of water, and boil for ten minutes. Remove the scum, add the juice of all the tangerines, the oranges, and the lemons ; also the syrup. Strain or tammy, and freeze in the usual manner.39 41.—GLACE AUX POIRES. (Pear Water Ice.) Ingredients. 6 good-sized fears (cooking or Jargonelle fears). 2 lemons. ! lb. loaf sugar. iJ finis water. 2 inch stick cinnamon. \ fint syruf (No. 34). A little saffron or carmine colouring. Method.—Peel the pears, cut them into thin slices, put them in a stew-pan with the sugar and the water ; add also< the thin rind of one lemon and the cinna- mon, and cook till the pears are tender. Remove the cinnamon and lemon rind, and rub through a fine hair sieve. Mix a little saffron or carmine colouring to give it the desired tint ; add the syrup and the juice of two> lemons (strained). Set aside to cool, and freeze. This will make about a quart of ice. 42.—GLACE AU MELON. (Melon Water Ice.) Ingredients. 1 medium-sized rife melon. 4 oz. sugar. 2 oranges. 2 lemons. 1 quart water 1 glass Maraschino. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Peel the melon, cut it into1 slices, cook for ten minutes with the sugar and a little water; then rub through a fine sieve, add the juice of the orangesand the lemons (strained) and the liqueur. Set aside to cool, and add the remainder of water, and, if needed, a little syrup (this depends on the sweetness of the melon), and freeze. Fill into a melon or other mould and freeze, or serve rough in glasses. 43. — FRAISES GLACEES EN COUPES. (Strawberry Fruit Ice.) Ingredients. 2 lb. ripe strawberries. i pint syrup (No. 33). pint cream. Method.—Pick the strawberries, and rub half of them through a hair sieve ; add the pulp to' the syrup, then pour into the freezer, and freeze in the usual man- ner, but not too' firmly. Stir the remain- der of the fruit into the frozen mixture, and mix carefully with the cream pre- viously whipped. This ice is generally served up in little souffle cups or glasses, with a whole strawberry placed on top. 44. —GLACE A L’EAU DE PECHES. (Peach Water Ice.) Ingredients. 1 pint peach pulp (puree). 1 pint syrup. The juice of 2 small lemons. \ oz. peach kernels, peeled and pounded. Method.—Mix the fruit pulp with the syrup, boil up, then add the lemon juice and the peach kernels ; strain, freeze, and mould in the usual manner. Note.—-The kernels can be omitted if the flavour they impart is not cared for.41 A few drops of liquid carmine will give it a nicer colour. A glass of Kirschwasser added when partly frozen is considered an improvement. 45.—GLACE D’ANANAS. (Pineapple Water Ice.) Ingredients. i large or 2 small ripe pineapples. 1 quart syrup (No. 33 or 34). containing the syrup. A little cold water may be added to the fruit when it is pounded. Add the lemon juice, mix thoroughly, and strain through a fine cloth, mousseline or tammis, or else a hair sieve. The mixture is then ready for freezing. 46.—GLACE A L’EAU DE CERISES. (Cherry Water Ice.) Ingredients. ij lb. good cooking cherries (Kentish or Dukes). 1 \ pints syrup. The juice of 1 large lemon. 1 small glass Kirschwasser (optional). Carmine or cochineal. Method.—Stone the cherries, crack about one-fourth part of the stones, and The juice of 2 large lemons. Method.—Pare the pineapples, and cut them into dice or cubes ; pound them by degrees in a mor- tar till quite smooth. As each lot is pounded, put it in a basin42 pound the kernels obtained. Put the cherries and pounded kernels in a basin, boil up the syrup, and pour over the fruit. Allow to' stand till quite cold, then add the lemon juice ; strain all, and colour, if necessary, with a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal. The Kirschwasser should be added just before freezing. 47.—GLACE A L’EAU DE FRAMBOISES. (Raspberry Water Ice.) Ingredients. i| lb. ripe raspberries (picked). The juice of 2 lemons. 1J pints syrup. Method.—Rub the fruit through a fine sieve into a basin, add the lemon juice and the syrup ; strain and freeze. A few drops of liquid carmine may be added be- fore freezing if it is found necessary, though this is scarcely the case if sound and ripe fruit is employed. 48.—GLACE A L’EAU DE FRAISES. (Strawberry Water Ice.) Rub \ lb. of small ripe strawberries through a fine sieve, and proceed to add the same ingredients as indicated in recipe No'. 47, omitting' the raspberries. 49.—GLACE A L’EAU D’ABRICOTS. (Apricot Water Ice). This is made exactly the same as peach water ice, in No. 44, using apricot pulp instead of peach pulp ; a little liquid saffron, or saffron paste, should be added in order to give the ice a nicer tint.43 50.—GLACE A L’EAU DE GROSEILLES. (Red Currant Water Ice.) Ingredients. i lb. red currants {stripped). J lb. raspberries {picked). i quart syrup. The juice of i lemon. Method.—Rub the fruit, currants and raspberries through a fine sieve, boil the syrup, and pour over the fruit pulp ; add the lemon juice, and strain when cold ; freeze as usual. The syrup used for this ice should be of good consistency (rather longer boiled), owing to the acidity of the fruit used. 51.—GLACE AU CASSIS. (Black Currant Water Ice.) Method.—To make this ice, proceed in the same way as described in the fore- going recipe, using i\ lb. black currants instead of red currants. The syrup, etc., should also be allowed to boil with the fruit in it for a few minutes, and then allowed to cool. 52.—GLACE A L’EAU DE] GRAPPES. (Grape Water Ice.) Ingredients. i lb. sweet water grapes. 4 lemons. i\ pints syrup. i wineglassful sherry or Marsala wine. i table-spoonful orange-flower water. Method.—Strip the grapes and rub the pulp through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Add the wine and the thin rind of44 two lemons, and cover. Cut the 4 lemons in halves, and squeeze the juice into the syrup ; boil up and pour over the grape pulp; strain when cold, add the orange-flower water, and freeze. The ice, like most water ices, can be served in moulded shapes, in glasses, or piled up rough on a dish. 53.—GLACE A L’EAU DE BANANES. (Banana Water Ice.) Ingredients. 6 ripe but firm bananas. 1 lemon. 2 oranges. i small glass Kirschwasser [optional). i table-spoonful orange-flower or elder - flower water. i pint syrup (No. 33 or 34). Method.—Peel the bananas, and pound them in a mortar with a little lemon juice and the Kirsch; then rub the fruit through a fine hair sieve. Put the thin rind of one lemon and the juice of the lemon and oranges into the syrup, boil up, and pour over the banana puree (pulp) ; when cold, strain and add the orange flower or elder- flower water; freeze, and serve in moulded shape or rough, as desired. 54.—GLACE DE GINGEMBRE. (Ginger Water Ice.) Ingredients. 4 oz. preserved ginger (in syrup). 1 orange. The white of 1 egg. 2 lemons. 1 pint syrup.45 Method.—Cut up the preserved ginger, and pound till smooth with a little of its syrup in a mortar ; rub it through a fine sieve, and put it in a stew-pan. Rub two or three lumps of sugar on the orange so as to extract the flavour of the rind ; put this into the pan with the fruit pulp, and add the strained juice of the orange and lemon, also the pint of syrup, and about half a gill of water. Boil up, skim, and strain. When cold, freeze in the usual manner. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and incorporate with the mixture when about half frozen ; then finish freezing, mould, or serve rough. A tablespoonful of liqueur—Curaqoa or Maraschino—can be added if liked. 55.—GLACE AU MARASQUIN. (Maraschino Water Ice.) Ingredients. 6 lemons. i small wineglassful of Maraschino. J small wineglassful of Kirsch. i pint of syrup (No. 34). Method.—Rasp the thin rind from 3 of the lemons, and put it into a basin. Strain the juice of six lemons into this ; add the syrup, and allow to stand for about an hour. Strain, add the Mara- schino and Kirsch, and about a gill of water. Freeze in the usual manner, working it thoroughly to insure it being46 smooth. A few drops of liquid carmine may, if liked, be added. Mould, or serve in glasses or cups. SORBETS* GRANITES* Etc. (Demi-Glace.) The general character of these ices is that they are of a semi-frozen consistency. The mixture consists usually of syrups, fruit juices, fruit pulps, coffee or tea, flavouring essences, liqueurs or wines. Most of these, especially the sorbets and punches, are served immediately before the roast. This, it is said, prepares one for the most perfect enjoyment of the succeeding dishes—i.e., the roast and the entremets courses. The characteristic points about these ices is that they are never moulded, for they are served in fancy glasses or cups, each holding just enough for one person. There are some hundreds of different kinds of sorbets, granites, punches, and cremolates. It is, therefore, hardly possible for me to give the recipe for each of these. I will, however, enumerate the most impor- tant ones in which the representative kinds are fully dealt with and explained. 56.—IMITATION GLASS MOULDS AND CUPS. Used for serving all kinds of Ices. Special kinds of mould are re- quired for this, which are gener- ally made in two parts. Fill the sides with plain or coloured water (red, yellow or green tinted). When the shapes47 are to be opaque add a little milk to the water. Place the moulds in a charged souffle ice cave, or, failing this, pack them carefully into a tin large enough to hold the mould or moulds, and allowing sufficient room for the ice (crushed ice) and salt to surround it or them. Allow about three hours for freezing. Great care must be taken to prevent any salt water pene- trating into the moulds, or the ice which is to be served in them will be spoilt. When ready un- mould them care- fully. 57.—SORBETS. The word “sorbet” derives its origin from sherbet ; thus, sorbet originally im- plied an effervescing cooling drink, this being identical with the Oriental sherbet. It was sherbet, we are told, that gave delight to the feasts of Saladin, which shows that the article was associated with all the romance and luxury of Moslem life. We may thus take it for granted that the word sorbet is of Arctic origin, which signifies a beverage frozen into a semi- solid state. Nearly all sorbets and punches contain a small proportion of alcohol in the form of liqueur, spirit, or wine. This may be omitted, but the flavour and character of the ice is thereby spoilt, or at least im- perfect. I woifld, therefore, recommend that a small quantity of the alcoholic liquors be employed in accordance with the directions given in the recipes.48 58.—ITALIAN MERINGUE. Used for Sorbets, Punch, etc. Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in about a gill of water, and boil in a copper sugar boiler till it reaches 40 deg. Fahr. on Senn’s saccharometer. Stir in by de- grees the whites of three eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Whisk this for about three minutes over the fire, and use as directed. 59.—SORBET AUX FRAISES. (Strawberry Sorbet.) To a quart of strawberry water ice (half frozen) add half a gill of Sauterne wine and a small glass of Curacoa ; colour it with a few drops of carmine, mix tho- roughly, and serve when sufficiently frozen. 60.—SORBET DE GROSEILLES AU MARAS- QUIN. (Gooseberry Sorbet with Maraschino.) Stir one pint of picked green goose- berries in half pint of water, to which add J lb. of loaf sugar and the juice of two lemons. Rub through a hair sieve, colour with a little spinach greening to give it a pretty light green colour. When cold add \ gill of Maraschino. Freeze partially, and serve in small glasses. Garnish with a few stoned cherries, previously tossed in a little syrup flavoured with Maraschino. 61.—SORBET DE GROSEILLES VERTES. (Gooseberry Sorbet.) Ingredients. 1 quart -picked'green gooseberries. 1 lemon. 6 oz. castor sugar. 1 in. cinnamon stick. 1 pint cream.49 Method.—Put the gooseberries, sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon and juice, and the cinnamon in a stew-pan with enough water to cover. Allow it to boil until tender, then rub through a hair sieve. Allow the pulp to cool, whip the cream, and mix it with the pulp. Pour this into a charged freezing pan, and freeze to a medium consistency. Fill some sorbet glasses with this mix- ture, and serve same after the remove course. 62.—SORBET D’ANANAS. (Pineapple Sorbet.) Ingredients. ^ lb. fresh or preserved pineapple. \ lemon. i wineglassful of sherry. \ wineglassful Maraschino. A little sugar. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—If fresh fruit is used, peel it and cut it into' thin slices, then put it into a coper boiler with sufficient water to cover, and i oz. sugar. Let it boil for about ten minutes, and rub through a sieve. In the case of preserved fruit being used, cut it up as small as possible, add the necessary quantity of syrup, boil up once, and rub through a sieve. Add enough water to1 make up a pint and a gill ; strain the juice of lemon into' this ; add also the wine and liqueur. Put this into a freezer ready set in a pail, and sur- rounded with crushed ice and freezing salt. Freeze until partly set. A handful of small slices of pineapple, which have been flavoured with a little Kirsch or brandy and castor sugar, should at this stage be mixed with the sorbet (this is not d5o essential, and is therefore not included in the ingredients stated at the beginning of the recipe). Continue to freeze for about fifteen minutes longer. Serve in sorbet glasses or cups. 63.—SORBET IMPERIALS. Put a pint of pineapple syrup in a cop- per saucepan with the juice of two lemons and juice of one orange ; add the thin rind of one lemon and one orange. Boil up, remove the scum, strain, and add quarter of a gill of Kirschwasser and a small glass of Maraschino liqueur. Commence to freeze in the usual manner. When half- frozen stir in the froth of a well-beaten white of egg. Serve in goblets or custard glasses. 64.—SORBET AUX CERISES. (Cherry Sorbet.) Ingredients. 1 lb. cherries (Dukes). 11 pints syrup. ^ gill of Kirschwasser. J gill noyeau. Carmine. 2 whites of eggs. 2 oz. castor sugar. Method.—Stone the cherries, break the stones, and put the kernels with the cher- ries into a stew-pan containing the syrup. Cook till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. When cold, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine ; freeze partially, and add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and mixed with the 2 oz. of sugar. Now add the liqueur, mix tho- roughly, and freeze a little longer. Serve in small glasses or fancy cups.51 65.—SORBET D’ABRICOT. (Apricot Sorbet.) Ingredients. i pint of apricot pulp (using fruit and syrup if preserved apricots are used). 4 oz. castor sugar. The juice of 2 oranges. 1 lemon. | pint water. \ gill Kirschwasser or Coganc brandy. Colouring. Few glace cherries. Method.—Put the fruit pulp and syrup, sugar, orange juice, and lemon juice into a stew-pan, add the water, boil up, skim and strain. When cold, incorporate enough saffron or yellow vegetable colour- ing to give the mixture the desired tint. Now add the liqueur (Kirsch or brandy), and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in little glasses or cups, and just a few tiny pieces of glace cherries on top of each glass. 66.—SORBET AUX PECHES. (Peach Sorbet.) Proceed in the same manner as in the foregoing recipe, but use peach pulp in place of apricot pulp. When sufficiently frozen fill the glasses intended to be used, and sprinkle some finely chopped pistachio nuts over each. No colouring matter need be used for this sorbet. When grapes are procurable, eighteen to twenty white grapes added to' either the peach or apricot sorbet will improve the flavour considerably. 67.—SORBET DE MELON. (Melon Sorbet.) Peel a ripe melon, cut it into slices, and pound in a mortar ; rub the pulp through52 a fine sieve, put it in a stew-pan with half a pint of water, half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons and one orange. Strain, and freeze when cold. When par- tially frozen, add one gill of champagne and a half-gill of Curagoa or Maraschino. Mix thoroughly, re-freeze, and serve. A small quantity of crystallized melon peel, finely chopped, may be put on top of each glass if liked. 68.—SORBET AU NOYEAU. To one quart of lemon water ice half frozen add a gill of noyeau syrup and the strained juice of one orange ; re -freeze, and three-parts fill the sorbet glasses or cups. Have ready some whipped cream, sweetened to taste, and flavoured with noyeau liqueur ; distribute this roughly on top of the glasses or cups, and serve. 69.—SORBET A LA CREME. (Cream Sorbet.) Ingredients. The juice of 2 lemons. \ lb. castor sugar. The whites of 3 eggs. J pint cream. 1 oz. vanilla sugar. £ gill Maraschino. Method.—Toil up ij pints of water, add the sugar, lemon juice, reduce a little and skim. Strain this and let cool, then freeze partially. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the vanilla sugar, whip the cream, and incorporate both whites of eggs and cream into the ice ; flavour with the liqueur, and finish freez- ing to the desired consistency. Serve in the usual manner.53 70.—SORBET DE RAISIN. (Grape Sorbet.) Rub twenty to twenty-four white ripe grapes through a hair sieve, mix this with a pint of partially-frozen lemonwater ice, and add a wineglassful of elder-flower water, also a wineglassful of marsala or sherry wine. Mix well, and re-freeze. Fill up the glasses or cups, and garnish each with a few grapes carefully peeled and stoned, and previously dipped or tossed in a little Maraschino syrup. 71.—SORBET D’ORANGE. Ingredients. 8 oranges. 2 lemons. 2 glasses Marsala wine. io oz. loaf sugar. 3 whites of eggs. 2 oz. castor sugar. Method.—Put the loaf sugar in a stew- pan with three pints of water ; heat up slowly until the sugar is dissolved, then boil and reduce a little, and remove the scum. Add to it the finely-grated rind of two oranges, the juice of the eight oranges and two lemons ; boil up, strain, and let cool. Partially freeze this mixture, whisk up the eggs to' a stiff froth, add it to the castor sugar, and stir this with the wine into the ice mixture, re-freeze to' the de- sired consistency, and serve in glasses or cups. 72.—SORBET DE CITRON. (Lemon Sorbet.) This is made in the same way as orange sorbet, using two oranges and eight lemons instead of the above quantity of oranges and lemons. In other respects, the ingredients and method are the same as in the previous recipe.54 73.—SORBET A LA STEPHANIE. Prepare a tangerine water ice, made from the juice of eight tangerines, the finely grated rind of one and the juice of three lemons, one orange, and one pint of syrup. Freeze till semi-set, and add a gill of ripe pineapple cut into small dice. Rinse eight to ten punch glasses with sherry or Marsala wine, fill the glasses with the prepared ice, and put a heaped-up teaspoonful of whipped cream on top of the ice. Serve quickly. 74.—COUPES MIKADO. Mix i gill chestnut puree with a pint of milk, add to it 4 oz. castor sugar and half a vanilla pod, boil up, and pour on to COUPES MIKADO. three beaten egg yolks ; remove the vanilla, and re-heat the above, then strain and let cool. Add the strained juice of two oranges and half a lemon, the stiffly whisked whites of two eggs and 1 gill whipped sweetened cream. Freeze the mixture, and fill into glasses ; place half a hollowed-out chestnut on top of the ice of each glass, and pour in about a tea- spoonful of heated-up rum, Kirsch or brandy, and ignite at the time of sending it to table.55 75.—COUPES VOLTAIRE. Boil 3 oz. loaf sugar with J gill of water, and add the juice of three lemons and two tangarines. Strain and cool ; then add i gill of cream, and freeze par- tially, and incorporate a meringue made with two whites of egg, i gill of syrup, flavoured with one small glass of Kirsch. Rinse eight goblets or custard glasses with Maraschino, and put in each a few slices of peaches, and fill up with the pre- pared ice. Put a strawberry or half a glace cherry and a slice of peach on top, and serve. 76.—GRANITE DE CITRON. (Lemon Granite.) To one quart of partially frozen lemon- water ice, add one small glass of Mara- schino liqueur and half a pint of finely- crushed ice. Mix thoroughly, and serve in the usual manner. 77.—GRANITE D’ANANAS. (Pineapple Granite.) Ingredients. 1 ripe pineapple {peeled) fresh or pre- served. 6 oz. castor sugar. 2 lemons. \ gill Curagoa liqueur. i table-spoonful brandy. Method.—Cut about two* slices of the pineapple, mince rather coarsely, and keep this on the ice. Pound the re mainder of the fruit in a mortar, add to it about half a pint of water, and rub the whole through a sieve or tammy cloth. Boil up with the sugar, skim, and let cool in a china basin or pan. Proceed to freeze in the usual way. When partially56 frozen add the minced pineapple, previ- ously steeped in a little brandy, and sprinkled over with castor sugar. Now add the liqueur and about a gill of finely- crushed ice. Mix well, and serve. 78.—GRANITE DE FRAMBOISE. (Raspberry Granite.) Mix \ lb. of castor sugar with i pint of raspberry pulp ; add the juice of five lemons, one quart of boiling water, and boil together to the consistency of a syrup ; strain into a freeer, and freeze to' the consistency of snow ; incorporate two whites of eggs, whisk stiffly, and pack in rough ice. Serve in glasses or cups. 79.—GRANITE AU CHAMPAGNE. Freeze three pints of lemon water, as directed in recipe No. 37, then add half a bottle of champagne. Mix thoroughly, and incorporate carefully about half a pound of soft fruit, such as strawberries, apricots, or peaches, all cut into- dice. Lastly, stir in a small quantity of crushed ice. It is then ready for serving. Note.—A large number of delicious sorbets and g'ranites (or “ granitos,” as they are sometimes called) may be pre- pared without being either elaborate or expensive by using various kinds of fruit in season, adapting a formula for blend- ing and proportions in the foregoing re- cipes, all of which will be found workable. An ingeniously - minded cook should, therefore, have no difficulty in producing a constant change in these preparations, especially during summer, when they are so much appreciated.57 80.—COUPES FRAPPEES A LA CAPUCINE. Ingredients. \ lb. Genoese cake. 4 oz. roasted split almonds. \ pint of vanilla custard. i J gills cream. £ gill coffee (strong). 1 glass Maraschino. 2 table-spoonfuls of Benedictine or Curasao. Method.—Trim the cake so as to> free it from brown crust, and cut the white part into very small dice. Put these in a small basin, pour over the two kinds of liqueur and the coffee (which should be made tepid) ; cover, and let it stand for about an hour. Whip up the cream, and mix it with one-third of the vanilla cus- tard. Add this to the soaked cake, chop finely a few of the almonds, and incor- porate them with the above. Keep the preparation well covered on the ice for about two hours. To serve, nearly fill eight to ten goblets or other suitable stem glasses with the prepared iced custard, then fill completely each glass with cus- tard and whipped (slightly sweetened) cream. Cover the top of each with halves of roasted almonds, which must be neatly arranged. Dish up, insert a cigarette wafer in the centre of each, and send to table. 81.—PUNCH A LA NICOISE. Make a quart of lemon-water ice (No. 37 or 38). When partially frozen incor- porate an Italian meringue in the propor- tion stated in recipe No. 58. Also two table-spoonfuls of rum and a glassful of champagne. Mix well, and fill up some plain or coloured imitation glasses (see No. 56).58 82.—PUNCH A L’lMPJSRIALE. Ingredients, i pint strongly infused tea. i J gills pineapple juice. The juice of 2 lemons. The thin rind and juice of 1 orange; \ gill of rum or brandy. \ gill of Maraschino or Benedictine. J gill syrup. | pint Italian meringue (No. 58). Method.—Put all the liquids, except- ing- the liqueur, with the orange rind in a copper pan ; heat up without boiling, and strain. When cold freeze partially, then add the Italian meringue mixture and the liqueur. Re-freeze, and serve in crown- shaped gum paste cups, or else in the usual punch glasses. 83.—PUNCH AU LAIT. (Milk Punch.) Some imitation opaque coloured cups (as mentioned in No'. 56) should be used for serving this punch. Otherwise use little fancy china cups. Pour a quart of boiling milk on to 4 oz. of loaf sugar, strain, and cool. Freeze to the usual consistency, and add two table-spoonfuls of rum and the same quan- tity of Cognac brandy, also a gill of whipped cream. Mix well, and freeze a little longer. Fill up the cups, and grate a little nutmeg or cinnamon over the top of each. 84.—PUNCH A LA NANSEN. To three pints of vanilla ice add a pint of Italian meringue mixture (No<. 58) ; also J gill Maraschino liqueur. Beat up well with the spatula. Freeze a little longer, and serve in suitable fancy cups or glasses.59 [85.—PUNCH AU KIRSCH. Ingredients. i pint syrup, boiled till it registers 35 degrees Fahr. on Senn’s saccharometer. | pint chablis. The juice of 2 lemons. \ gill Kirschwasser. \ pint Italian meringue (No. 58). Method.—Mix the lemon juice and chablis with the syrup when the latter is quite cold, then strain and freeze in the usual way. When partially frozen add the Italian meringue mixture, also the liqueur. Re-freeze to the desired consis- tency, and serve in glasses. 86.—PUNCH A LA ROYALE. Ingredients. 1 pint syrup, as above. The juice of 6 lemons and 2 oranges. The rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange rubbed on lumps of sugar. 1 glass champagne. 3 table-spoonfuls Maraschino and brandy \ pint Italian meringue. Method.—Mix the lemon juice and orange juice with the syrup whilst hot ; add the lumps of flavoured sugar, and stir till dissolved. Strain, and three-parts freeze when quite cold, then add the Italian meringue mixture (No1. 58), also champagne and the liqueurs. Mix well, and freeze a little longer. Serve in imita- tion glass cups or fancy goblets. 87.—PUNCH A LA CARDINAL. Ingredients. 2 oz. loaf sugar. 3 oranges. 2 lemons. 2 cloves.6o 1 teaspoonful coriander seeds. J in. cinnamon stick. \ pint claret. J gill port wine. 2 whites of eggs. | gill pulp of fresh raspberries. About \ pint of champagne jelly. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Put the sugar in a stew-pan, add a pint of water when dissolved, put it on the fire with the thin rind of half a lemon, the cloves, coriander seeds, and cinnamon ; boil to a syrup, and strain. Add the claret, the juice of the lemons, and oranges ; boil again, and let cool. Strain this into a freezing-pot, and begin to freeze in the usual manner. Whisk the whites of eggs, and add this with the port wine and raspberry pulp with the above ; continue to freeze a little more, then add the jelly, previously liquefied. Proceed to freeze until the desired consistency is obtained. A punch should be quite soft (smooth), and must on no account be frozen hard. A little liquid carmine can be mixed with the punch if a more pro- nounced red is desired. Serve in punch glasses or goblets. 88.—PUNCH A LA ROMAINE, (Roman Punch.) Ingredients. i lb. loaf sugar. 1 quart water (for syrup.) 6 lemons. 2 oranges. 3 whites of eggs. 2 glasses of rum or Kirschwasser. Method.—Put the water and sugar in a copper pan, and boil up to make a6i syrup ; peel thinly three lemons and one orange ; add to it the hot syrup, also> the juice of all the fruit. Allow it to get cold, then strain through a tammy, and freeze. When partly frozen, mix with the froth of the whites of eggs. Last of all, add the rum or other liquor ; continue to freeze a little longer. Serve, when half frozen, in sorbet cups or in glasses. 89.—BOUQUET PUNCH. Mix in a freezer equal quantities of strawberry and orange-water ice ; add to each quart half a gill of Maraschino and half a pint of champagne. Blend tho- roughly, and pack in a freezer to stand for about an hour. Serve in punch cups with a few crystallised violets as garnish. 90.—CAFE FRAPPE A LA VANILLE. (Iced Coffee.) Ingredients. 8 light table-spoonfuls ground coffee. i quart water. 6 oz. castor sugar. i in. vanilla pod. \ pint milk. \ pint cream. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Have ready a hot, dry coffee- pot, put the coffee in the filter, pour on little by little the water (boiling), put on the lid ; when the water has run through, repeat, pouring it through a second time, stand it in the bain-marie until required. Put the milk, sugar, and vanilla in a stew- pan ; heat up, but do not let it boil, add the coffee; let it cool, and stir in the cream. Takeout the vanilla, and pour into an ice- freeze, previously placed in a tub contain- ing broken ice mixed with coarse freezing62 salt. Freeze until it resembles a creamy substance ; fill up into little glasses, and serve. Coffee thus prepared must be in a semi-liquid state when served, and a bowl of castor sugar should be handed round at the same time. 91.—caf6 glace en verres. (Iced Coffee, another way.) Ingredients. ij lb. icing sugar. 12 yolks of eggs. i quart cream. i quart coffee. Method.—Whisk the yolks of eggs and stir in the sugar, pour in the coffee hot, and let cool. Whip the cream, and add it to the coffee when quite cold. Freeze in the usual way, and serve in glasses. 92.—CAFE A LA NEIGE. Ingredients, i pint strong coffee. \ pint milk. i| gills cream. 4 oz. castor sugar. i glass Kirschwasser. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Boil up the milk, add the sugar, and mix with the coffee. When cold, add half the cream and the Kirsch- wasser. Put the mixture into the freezing pot placed in a pail and surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt. Work the pot until the liquid is partially frozen. Whip the remainder of cream till stiff. Fill six small sorbet glasses with the half- frozen mixture, put a dessert-spoonful of whipped cream on top of each glass, and serve.63 Chocolate or tea may be served in exactly the same manner, but no liqueur should then be added. PARFAITS, MOUSSES, AND SOUFFLES. 93.—PARFAIT AU NOUGAT. Ingredients. i\ gills syrup. i in. vanilla pod. 5 yolks of eggs. i quart cream. 4 oz. almond nougat or French almond rock, the former should be usedwhenpossible. Method.—Boil the syrup and vanilla in a copper sugar-pan till it registers 240 deg. on Senn's saccharo- meter. Remove the vanilla, and pour the syrup slowly over five well- beaten yolks of eggs. Whisk the pre- paration in an egg-bowl over boiling water until it has the consistency of thick cream. Remove it from the fire, and whisk till cold. Whip the cream, and crush finely the nougat or almond rock ; this is best done by means of a rolling- pin. Mix this and the cream into the first preparation, and stir for some minutes over the ice. Fill a three-pint parfait or bombe mould (lined with paper) with the preparation. Place in salted ice, fix on the lid, cementing the joints with butter, cover with paper, and place a good layer of salt and crushed ice on top. Allow to freeze thus for about hours.64 94.—PARFAIT AU MOKA. (Coffee Parfait.) Ingredients. 6 yolks of eggs. 1 \ oz. castor sugar. gills syrup. 2 large table-spoonfuls coffee (freshly made). A little coffee extract to colour. About § pint cream. Method.—Put the above ingredients (excepting the cream) in a copper pan, set it over some boiling water, and whisk it until the mixture begins to thicken ; strain, let cool. Add the cream previ- ously whipped, put the mixture in a mould (cylindrical shape, if possible), put the mould (well covered) into a charged ice- cave, or in a pail of salted ice, from two to three hours. To serve, dip the mould in cold water, turn out on to a dish with folded napkin. 95.—PARFAIT AU TH& (Tea Parfait.) Proceed in the same manner as de- scribed in the foregoing recipe, omitting the coffee, and adding instead \ gill of freshly-brewed strong tea. 96.—PARFAIT AU CHOCOLAT. (Chocolate Parfait.) Grate a J lb. chocolate, dissolve it in a little water, stir into1 a custard made of six eggs, a pint of milk, and sugar to taste ; pass all through a fine hair sieve. Allow to stand on ice, and whisk it well for a few minutes, then add to* it half a pint of whipped cream. Fill into a bombe or parfait mould, close it up well, and pack in the ice cave for three or four hours.65 97.—SURPRISES D’ORANGES. Cut eight small oranges in halves, cross- wise, squeeze out the juice very gently so as not to break the rind, and, in a like manner, by means of a teaspoon, remove as much as possible of the interior of each orange. Strain the orange juice, and add to it the strained juice of three lemons and if gills of syrup. Freeze this in the usual manner. When sufficiently frozen fill each or as many halves of oranges as possible. Cover the top of each with an “ Omelette Souffle ” mixture. This must be done verv carefully indeed, so as to completely cover the ice. Bake them in a very quick oven, just long enough to’ brown the sur- face. Place each in a wineglass, dish up, and send to table immediately. 98.—VARIOUS PARFAITS. Quite a large number of parfaits can be prepared by adopting the process de- scribed in No. 93 as a basis, omitting, of course, the nougat or almond rock ; in- stead of this, add any desired ingredient with which you wish to’ flavour the parfait, and which take the name of the parfait. As examples, the following may be found useful changes: — Parfait an Kir sell (flavoured with Kirschwasser). Parfait a la Violette (flavoured with crushed crystallized violets). Parfait aux Peches (flavoured with peach pulp). Parfait aux Abricots (flavoured with apricot pulp). Parfait Panache (any two> kinds mixed in layers). Parfait au Mar as quin (flavoured with Maraschino). E66 99.—PARFAIT A LA TURQUE. (Turkish Parfait.) Ingredients. 4 oz. freshly roasted coffee berries. i J inch vanilla pod. 4 oz. castor sugar. 6 yolks of eggs. i\ pints cream. Method.—The coffee must be freshly roasted, place it in a basin whilst still hot, add the vanilla bean (pod), pour over a pint of cream (boiling- hot), and let this infuse for at least half an hour. Cream the yolks of egg's with the sugar, and when sufficiently worked add it to the coffee infusion. Place the basin over a saucepan of boiling water, and stir steadily with an egg-whisk till the mix- ture acquires the consistency of thick cream. Pass through a fine sieve, and now add the remainder of cream, whisk all over the ice until quite cold. Fill a mould, cover it securely, and set it in salted ice, as directed on page 16. Allow about two' hours to> freeze. To serve this or any other moulded ice, remove the mould from the ice, dip it quickly into cold water, wipe it, and unmould the iced shape on a dish with folded napkin, and garnish with ice wafers. 100.—MOUSSE AU MARASQUJN. Ingredients. 4 yolks of eggs. J lb. loaf sugar. \ pint water. r- J gill Kirschwasser. \ gill Maraschino. About \ pint cream. Ice and freezing salt.6 7 Method.—Put the sugar and water in a copper-pan, boil up slowly, remove the scum, and boil until it becomes a syrup, registering 240 deg. by Serin’s saccharo- meter. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir in the hot syrup, add the two liqueurs, stir with a whisk over a stew- pan of boiling water for about six minutes, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Place the basin in a cool place, stirring the contents whilst cooling. Have ready a plain charlotte mould, lined with white paper. Add the cream, well whipped, to' the mixture when cool, and fill the mould. Cover with a piece of paper close up to the lid, so as to her- metically seal the mould, bury it in a pail of crushed ice and freezing salt; let it remain thus for at least two hours. When required for serving, immerse the mould in cold water, wipe well, remove the lid, turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or dish paper, remove the paper lining, and serve quickly. 101.—MOUSSE A L’ANANAS. (Pineapple Mousse.) Ingredients. About l of a pineapple (say 10 oz. in weight). \\ gills double cream. 2 oz. castor sugar. 11 gills wine jelly. | oz. gelatine. \ gill Maraschino liqueur (this may be omitted). A few glace cherries. Method.—Mask a jelly mould with a thin layer of jelly, and decorate the bottom and sides tastefully with glace cherries, and keep the mould on the ice68 till wanted. If fresh pineapple is used, pare off the rind and trim it. Cut the fruit into dice, and pound in a mortar till smooth, then rub through a hair sieve, and put the puree in a basin. Heat up the remainder of jelly until liquid, then whisk it over the ice until it becomes frothy or of a sponge-like appearance. Whip the cream and add both the whisked jelly and cream to the fruit puree, dissolve the gelatine in a small quantity (about | gill) of fruit syrup, add the sugar, and let cool a little; then strain into' the prepared cream, add the liqueur at the last, pour it into the decorated mould, and put it on the ice till firm. To serve, dip the mould into warm water for a second or two1, wipe it quickly, and turn out into' a cold dish. A little chopped wine jelly may, if liked, be put round the base of the dish. [102.—MOUSSE GLACEE AU CAFE NOIR. Ingredients, i gill strong black coflee. 5 yolks of eggs. ^ f>int syrup. | pint of cream. i liqueur glass of Kirschwasser. Crushed ice and freezing salt. Method.—Line a plain ice mould with thin white paper, and place in a pail sur- rounded with crushed ice and salt, ready for filling. Put the yolks of eggs into a copper pan, add the syrup (hot) by degrees, stirring all the while. Whisk well over the fire long enough to' bind the eggs, add the coffee and Kirschwasser, stir a few minutes longer over the fire, and let cool. Whip the cream until stiff, and mix with the above when quite cold.6g Now fill the ice mould, fix on the lid so as to securely close the mould, put a piece of paper on top, bury in ice and salt, and let it thus freeze for about 2\ hours. Immerse in cold water, turn out on a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper ; re- move the paper and serve with thin coffee wafers. 103.—MOUSSE FRAPPISE A LA GENEVOISE. Ingredients. 4 eggs. 2 lemons. i orange. 4 oz. castor sugar. i pint cream. £ oz. French leaf gelatine. A few crushed macaroons. A table-spoonful Curagoa liqueur. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, stir the yolks in a basin with the sugar until it has the appearance of a cream, then add the juice and finely rasped rind of the lemons and orange; put this in a stew-pan or basin, and whisk over a pan of boiling- water until a liaison is formed. Dissolve the gelatine with a few drops of water, and strain into' the above. Whisk the whites of eggs and the cream separately, and stir or fold carefully into the mixture when the latter has cooled a little ; add two' table-spoon- fuls of crushed macaroons and the liqueur, and fill into a silver-plated or souffle dish; keep it on the ice for at least one hour. Sprinkle the top with more finely crushed macaroons, and serve.70 104. —MOUSSE PALERMO AUX PRALINES. Ingredients. J pint syrup, flavoured with vanilla. ij oz. Van Houten’s cocoa. 3 oz. almonds. 4 yolks of eggs. | pint cream. A small glass noyeau. Ice and freezing sal Method.—Peel the almonds, put them at the mouth of the oven, and bake a pale brown colour. Mix the cocoa with a little cream, add this to the syrup, and boil for five minutes; beat the egg's in a basin, pour on the cocoa syrup, mix well, return to the stew-pan, and stir over the fire a few seconds to bind the yolks (do not let it boil), strain into a basin, and let cool. Pound the almonds in a mortar, moisten with noyeau liqueur, and mix with the above preparation, whisk the cream till stiff, and add it; stir from time to' time; freeze in the usual manner. When half frozen, fill up a cylindrical- shaped mould, cover well, and close up hermetically ; bury in a pail of ice, with salt, for two* or three hours; turn out and serve. If more convenient, or by way of change, this ice may be served in goblets, the same as sorbets. It is sent to table in a half-frozen state. 105. —MOUSSE FRAPPEE, PRINCE PUCKLER. Ingredients. | lb. castor sugar. \ pint whipped cream. 3 eggs. i gill apricot puree (prepared from fresh apricots). 21 lemons. | oz. gelatine. 1 liqueur glass Curagoa. 2 macaroons.71 Method.—Grate the rinds of the lemons as thinly as possible, cut them in halves, and squeeze the juice through a strainer into a clean copper egg-bowl. Break the eggs, separate the yolks care- fully from the whites, and put the former into a copper bowl containing the lemon juice; add the grated lemon-rind and the sugar, and whisk over a stew-pan of boil- ing water until quite thick (cream like). Allow the mixture to cool a little. Melt the gelatine (previously soaked in water and drained) with the apricot pur£e (pulp), strain, and let cool; then add to the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff forth, beat up the cream, and stir both carefully into> the above. Stir in the Cura^oa liqueur, and pour into a silver souffle case with an inch deep paper band fastened round it. Sprinkle some finely crushed or powdered macaroons on top ; keep it on the ice until wanted, and serve with a boat of cold chocolate sauce. 106.—SOUFFLE FRAPPE A LA SABAYON. (Also called Souffle Milanaise.) Ingredients. 4 oz. castor sugar. h pint whipped cream. 3 eggs. 2j lemons (rind and juice). J oz. gelatine (bare weight), melted. Method.—Put the egg-yolks, sugar, rind, and juice of lemon into a stew-pan, and whisk until quite thick. Cool, and add gelatine, whipped whites of eggs, and cream, very lightly mixed. Pour into a silver souffle case, with a band of paper round it. Shake some powdered maca- roons on top, keep on the ice until wanted, and serve with a boat of cold Sabayon sauce.72 107.—SOUFFLfi GLAC6 A LA DUMAS. Ingredients. 6 oz. loaf sugar. J pint water. 8 yolks of eggs. 2 whole eggs. \ gill double cream. A wineglassful Maraschino liqueur. Grated chocolate. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Put the sugar in a copper pan or sugar-boiler, add to it about half a pint of water, and boil it to thick syrup and remove the scum. Whisk the eggs, yolks and whites, in a basin for about ten minutes, then pour in the hot syrup. Mix thoroughly, and pour into a copper egg- bowl ; stand it over a brisk tire, and whisk the mixture until it becomes of the consistency of cream; add the double cream and whisk a little longer. Allow it to cool, and fill into a plated souffle dish, lining- it with a paper band to come about an inch above the rim so as to prevent the souffle from running over. Place the dish in a round tin (a large cake tin will be found the most suitable for this purpose), fasten it with a tight-fitting lid. Line the bottom of a pail with crushed ice mixed with freezing salt; place the tin on this, pack the sides of the pail with ice and salt, and put some on the top ; freeze thus for about three hours. To serve, take out the tin, wipe it, re- move the lid, take out the souffle, remove the paper band, place the dish on another dish with a folded napkin. Sprinkle the top with grated chocolate, and send to table immediately.73 108. —SOUFFLE FRAPPfi AUX FRAMBOISES. Ingredients. J gill raspberry pulp. 6 oz. castor sugar. The juice and rind of 2 lemons \ oz. French leaf gelatine. 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. \ pint whipped cream. Method.—Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former in a copper egg-bowl, add to' it the sugar and the strained juice of lemon, also the grated rind of one lemon. Stir this with a whisk over a saucepan of boiling water until it becomes a thick but creamy sub- stance. Melt the gelatine, and add it to the raspberry pulp, previously heated (not boiled), and strain this into the above. When cooled a little, add care- fully the whisked whites of two> eggs and the whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a silver-plated souffle dish, which should have a paper band fastened round above the edge. Place on the ice for about two hours. About half an hour before serving dissolve the red-currant jelly, add to it the wine jelly, and when almost cold pour this over the surface of the souffle ; allow it to set well. To serve, remove the paper band, place the souffle carefully into the dish, and send to table immediately. 109. —SOUFFLE FRAPP6 A LA MARGUERITE. Ingredients. 1 oz. cornflour. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 in. vanilla pod. 2j gills of milk. 4 oz. strawberries. 2 oz. butter.74 i gill cream. 4 eggs. J oz. gelatine. i small glass Maraschino (this can he left out if desired). Red currant jelly. A few drops carmine or cochineal. Method.—Mix the cornflour with the sugar in a stew-pan, stir in the milk, add i oz. of butter and the vanilla pod. Stir this over a slow fire until it comes to a boil; continue to- stir over the fire until the mixture detaches easily from the stew-pan. Let it cool, and remove the vanilla pod (this may be ag-ain used if taken care of). Pick the- strawberries, and put them through a hair sieve. Stir the pulp into* the above before it is quite cold; add also the remainder of the butter. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the cream, and whisk over the fire until the eggs begin to set. Dissolve the gela- tine in a little water, add to> it a table- spoonful of red currant jelly and a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal; strain this with the mixture; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add likewise; the Maraschino should now be added. Fill a silver-plated souffle dish with this preparation; keep it in a case well charged with ice. Dissolve about two table-spoonfuls red currant jelly, and when nearly cold pour it over the top of the souffle to- form a layer. It is well to fasten a paper band round the souffle case, so that it comes about an inch above the rim; this should be removed before send- ing it to' the table.75 GLACES FANTAISIES. ICE PUDDINGS, MIXED AND FANCY ICES, DESSERT ICES, etc. These ices are made in almost endless varieties. As in the matter of dress, the fashion demands some novelties in ices, ICE MOULD WITH LINING. so that each season a number of new compositions and shapes in ices are pn> duced by the ever ingenious and talented INDIVIDUAL MOULDS FOR DESSERT ICES.76 confectioner and cuisinier. A novelty often consists merely in the idea of new shapes and designs. There are several hundreds of differently shaped ice moulds to choose from, suitable for the produc- tion of fancy ices. Many of the designs are the outcome of certain events, social and gastronomic celebrations, as well as the rule of fashion. The principles of ice making*, however, never change—they are the same to-day as they were fifty years agfO', but the intelligent and obser- vant artist is ever able to discover some new composition, shape, or design, so that we have an infinite variety of ices which are classified under this heading. The principal novelties are included in the following recipes. 110.—GLACE NAPOLITAINE.* Ingredients. \ pint of strawberry or raspberry pulp. i oz. chocolate. 6 yolks of eggs. i teaspoonful vanilla essence. 3 pints milk. i pint cream. 4 oz. castor sugar. Cochineal. Crushed ice and freezing salt. Method.—Work the yolks of eggs with half the quantity of sugar until smooth. Boil up the milk, add the re- mainder of the sugar, and pour on. to> the egg mixture, stirring vigorously. Re- turn to the stew-pan and stir over a slow fire until the liaison is formed (this will take three or four minutes). Strain into a basin. Grate the chocolate, put it in a small stew-pan with a table-spoonful of water; when dissolved, mix about one- * See page 13 for moulds to be used.77 third of the cooked cream, work well, and let cool. Mix the fruit pulp with half the remainder of cooked cream, colour with a few drops of cochineal if necessary. Add the vanilla essence with the other half. Divide the fresh cream into equal proportions with the three kinds of preparations; freeze each lot separately. Pack it in layers in a mould. Cover closely, and pack in ice and salt for about two hours. Unmould, cut into convenient pieces, and serve. 111.—BISCOTINES GLACtfE A LA TURQUE. Ingredients, i J gills cream. | oz. castor sugar. i oz. French almond rock. 12 ice wafers [flat). A few chopped pistachios. i table-spoonful Maraschino. i teaspoonful coffee (strong). Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Pound the almond rock till smooth, whisk the cream till stiff, add the sugar, the pounded almond rock, coffee, and liqueur. Mix well, but carefully. Pour into' a shallow square or oblong tin, fix the lid on the tin, and cover with paper. Place this in a box well charged with ice and salt, and let it thus freeze for about two hours. Cut six of the bis- suits in halves, long way, and spread them with a very thin layer of apricot jam; cut also> a few narrow strips the size of a straw out of the biscuits and keep by for garnish. Take up the iced cream, unmculd, and cut quickly into slices the size to fit the biscuits, and place the cream slices on these. Dish up, garnish the top with strips of bis- cuits and chopped pistachios. Strew the latter over the whole. Serve at once.112.—SOUFFLti A LA FRONTIGNAN. (Muscatel Grape Ice.) Ingredients. 6 oz. muscatel grapes. 2 oz. castor sugar. \ pint cream. The juice of 2 lemons. i white of egg. i liqueur glass Chartreuse. i glass sherry {if liked). i gill syrup. Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Put the grapes in a basin, mash up with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, and rub through a fine hair sieve; add the syrup to' the pulp. Strain the lemon juice into the pulp, put all in a freezer and freeze partially. Whip the cream a little, mix this, add alsoi the white oif egg whisked to a stiff froth, and lastly the liqueur and wine. Finish freezing. Mould, or serve roughly dressed. A few drops of spinach greening may be added to give the ice a delicate tint of green. If this ice is moulded, the bottom of the mould may be decorated with a few grapes and angelica leaves, the pips of the grapes being previously removed. 113.—BOMBE GLACfiE AUX AMANDES PRALINEES. Ingredients. J pint syrup {flavour- ed with vanilla). 4 yolks of eggs. | pint cream. A small glass noyeau. Ice’and freezing salt. Method.—Peel the almonds, put them at the mouth79 of the oven, and bake a pale brown colour. Boil up the syrup, beat the eggs in a basin, pour on the syrup, mix well, return to the stew-pan and stir over the fire for a few seconds to bind the yolks. Do not let it boil. Strain into a basin and let cool. Pound the almoinds in a mortar, moisten with noyeau liqueur, and mix with the above preparation. Whip the cream till stiff, and add it. Stir from time to* time. Freeze in the usual manner. When half frozen, fill up a cylindrical-shaped mould, cover well, and close up hermetically; bury in a pail of ice with salt for from twoi to three hours. Turn out and serve. If more convenient, or by way of a change, this ice may be served in goblets, the same as sorbets. It is sent to' table in a half-frozen state. 114.—POUDING GLACE A LA REINE. Freeze ij pints vanilla custard (No. i or 2). When partially done add a small glass of Curacoa, 2 oz. crystallised apricots, 2 oz. glace cherries (all cut into small dice or shreds), and a pint of whipped cream. Fill up a pewter ice mould (fancy pattern), cover well, and seal the lrd with butter or lard. Wrap up in paper, and bury it in crushed ice and salt. When wanted for serving, turn out of the mould in the usual manner. Sprinkle over the surface of the ice with coarsely- chopped almonds, previously baked to a light brown colour. The base of the dish may, if liked, be garnished with several small fancy-shaped ices, or fail- ing this, with ice biscuits, fruit, or wafers.8o 115—POUDING SOUFFLE A LA FRUITIERE. Ingredients. J pint preserved mixed fruit (cherries, 'apri- cots, peaches, etc.) \ teaspoonful vanilla essence. \ pint cream. \ gill Marsala. i table-spoonful grated chocolate. i gill syrup. i glass M araschino. 4 oz. leaf gelatine. A little milk. i small lemon. i oz. blanched almonds. Crushed ice. Method. —- Cut the fruit into dice or small slices. Preserved fruit may be used if fresh fruit is not obtainable. Glace cherries are pre- ferable t,o fresh cherries for this dish. Moisten the fruit with the syrup, boil up, add the liqueur, and let cool. Arrange the fruit neatly in a silver or glass compote dish, pour over about half the syrup. Mix the remainder of syrup with the sherry, add to' it the gelatine previously soaked in a little milk; stir over the fire until the gelatine has dis- solved. Add the rind of half a small lemon finely grated, the vanilla flavour- ing-, and the juice of the lemon. Strain into a basin, and let cool. Whip the cream. Stir this into the above. When the cream begins tO! set pour it slowly over the fruit and place it on the81 ice, and place some broken ice round the mould. Keep it thus for about two hours. Just before serving sprinkle the top with grated chocolate, and garnish with strips of blanched almonds. 116.—POUDING GLACE A LA NESSELRODE. Ingredients. 3 dozen chestnuts. 12 oz. loaf sugar. ij pints cream. i vanilla pod or essence of vanilla. 8 yolks of eggs. 1 glass Maraschino. 2 oz. glace cherries. Method.—Slit the chestnuts, blanch them, and remove the husks and skins, cook till tender in milk, adding the vanilla pod if the latter be used. Take up the chestnuts, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a fine sieve. Boil a gill of the milk, and pour over the egg yolks; when cooked, strain to the puree of chestnuts. Boll the sugar to' a syrup in a pint of water, add this to' the chest- nut puree. When cold add half the cream. Put the mixture in a freezing- pot, and freeze till almost set; now add the Maraschino' and the cherries, cut into small dice or slices. Whip the remainder of cream, and add also. Continue to freeze, stirring the mixture frequently. When the mixture is sufficiently frozen fill up one or two moulds. Close them tightly. Wrap up in paper, and bury in ice and salt. Let it thus remain till required for table. F82 117.—GLACE PLOMBIERE A LA JAPONAISE. Ingredients. 8 eggs. 1 oz. sugar. pints milk. 2 oz. apricot marmalade. 4 oz. ground almonds. \ pint cream. i glass Kirschwasser. 4 oz. macaroon biscuits or wafers for garnish. Method.—Prepare a custard with the milk, eight yolks of eggs, and sugar; stir the custard over the fire to> bind the yolks, press through a hair sieve, add the marmalade, ground almonds Kirsch- wasser, and salt. When cold, mix with half a pint of whipped cream and 4 oz. of powdered macaroons. Freeze in the usual manner. Mould with a small quantity of apricot marmalade in the centre, and serve with small rata fias or thin ice wafer biscuits round the base of the dish. 118.—GLACE AU CAF6 BLANC. (White Coffee Ice.) Crush 4 oz. of lightly roasted coffee and bring it to> a boil with a pint of milk, and let simmer (but not boil) on the side of stove for twenty minutes; then whisk three whites of eggs slightly, and add 4 oz. of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and a pint of cream. Place it on the stove, constantly stirring until it thickens ; do1 not let it boil; then remove and strain. When cold freeze in the usual manner. Serve moulded or in glasses.119.—GLACE ROCHET VOLCANO.^ A specially constructed socle, consisting of a metal tube fixed on a round plate is required for this dish. Cover the bottom part with a sheet of Genoese pastry, and the tube portion with duchesse or nouille paste; dry the shape in a cool oven and set to cool. Prepare a custard with i pint of milk, 6 yolks of eggs, i oz. of Tftrr^r^/wi//////,//,f/l,<'<,l<<i,l<IIIIIM>lini*ll>VuVVVi ).vuvuv — GLACE ROCHET VOLCANO. chocolate, and \ g-ill of strong- Mocha coffee. When strained add i\ gills of syrup and i gill of whipped cream and allow to cool. Freeze this in the usual manner. To dress the ice1: Scoop out large table-spoonfuls and range them in pyramidal form round the column of the plaque, previously placed on a suitable dish. Besprinkle the ice here and there with finely chopped pistachios, then pour84 a small quantity of rum, Kirsch, or brandy into the top portion of the tube; into this plaoe also some very finely cut strips of angelica. Ignite the alcohol, and serve at once. Note.—If liked, the base of the dish can be garnished with mushrooms, made from small round meringues and almond paste. This will greatly improve the dish. 120.—BISQUE GLACEE. (An American Recipe.) Put a quart of double cream on the ice for about twelve hours (overnight). Pour the cream in an egg bowl, taking care not tO' let any milk that will have settled at the bottom to get into the bowl. Whisk the cream on the ice till almost stiff, then add 3-4 oz. of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla essence, one glass of Cognac brandy, and 2 oz. finely- crushed and sifted macaroons. Fill up one or two' brick moulds (as used for Neapolitan ice) with the cream, seal them carefully, wrap them up well, and freeze in the usual manner for about two hours. Unmould, and serve whole or cut up into slices. 121.—GLACE AU VIN DE BORDEAUX. (Claret Ice.) Ingredients. 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1 pint water. 2 in. stick cinnamon. 3 lemons. 1 pint good claret (Bordeaux wine). Ice and freezing salt. Method.—Pour the water (boiling) over the sugar and let it dissolve, add the cinnamon and the thin rind of one lemon.85 Boil to a syrup, and let cool. Cut the lemon in halves, squeeze out the juice into the syrup; strain, and add the claret. Freeze in the usual manner. Fill up very small grape moulds, and pack between layers of broken ice and salt. When sufficiently frozen, unmould the ice on to a disk with a folded napkin, and serve with thin wine wafers. 122.—GATEAU SURPRISE GLACE. Ingredients. 8 eggs 6 oz. castor sugar io oz. of flour 8 oz. of ground almonds. io oz. of butter, apricot jam, chocolate icing, royal icing. i| pints {about) of strawberry ice cream. io wafer cornets. i oz. of chopped pistachio kernels, custard ice for filling cornets. Method.—Break the eggs into a copper bowl or basin, add the sugar, and whip well for a few minutes. Stand it over a stew-pan with boiling water, and beat vigorously with a whisk for about twenty minutes. Butter and flour a larp-e saute-pan. When the mixture is suf- ficiently worked, stir in by degrees the sifted flour, the sifted ground almonds, and the butter (melted) : mix all well, but carefully, pour into the tin, and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-five to' thirty minutes. When cold, cut out as many rounds as are required, but each one must be smaller than the other. Stamp out the centre of each round thus obtained to form rings about iin. or i|in. broad, leaving the largest and the smallest one whole. The largest will86 form the bottom and the smallest the top of the gateau. Have some apricot jam made liquid, place the large round on a dish, spread the tops and bottoms of the rings with apricot jam and fasten them together, commencing with the largest so as to form a pyramid. Allow the gateau to set, and coat the outside with chocolate icing. Ornament with Toyal icing to taste. (Do1 not fix the top layer.) GATEAU SURPRISE GLACE. Fill the cornets with a previously pre- pared custard ice, sprinkle the tops with chopped pistachio' kernels, fasten them by means of a little icing in a row round the gateau. When the dish is required for table, remove the top piece and fill with strawberry ice cream, replace the top and serve. The chocolate icing may, if liked, be substituted with strawberry or orange fondant icing. 123.—CHARLOTTE GLACI2E A LA CREOLE. Line a plain charlotte mould with iced biscuits, finger biscuits, or Genoise slices, covered with different coloured royal icing. See that the icing has got quite87 hard on the biscuits before they are used for lining- the mould. Arrange the bis- cuits just the same as for “ Charlotte Russe.” Mix a pint of vanilla custard ice with a grill of sweetened chestnut puree and a handful of fruit (pineapple, peaches, etc.) cut into dice, previously soaked in a little Maraschino' liqueur. Freeze this mixture, and fill up the pre- pared mould: this must be done with special care. Keep it in a charged ice cave or souffle ice case. When wanted for table, unmould the Charlotte carefully on a dish covered with lace paper or a folded napkin; garnish to taste, and serve immediately. 124.—TUTTI-FRUTTI GLACfi. Ingredients. 5 yolks of. eggs. i pint milk. Vanilla flavouring {pod or essence). 6 oz. sugar. 2 whites of eggs. \ gill Maraschino. | pint double cream. i oz. pistachios. i oz. glace cherries, i oz. candied peel (mized). i oz. glace apricots. Method.—Prepare a custard by boiling the milk and sugar; add the vanilla pod or flavouring essence ; pour this over the yolks of eggs previously beaten, return to the stew-pan, and stir over the fire till it thickens ; strain into> a basin and let cool. Whisk separately the whites of eggs and cream till stiff, and amalgamate both. Cut the pistachios, previously peeled, into thin shreds, cut the other fruit into small dice. Put the custard88 in a freezer, and commence to freeze; when partly done, amalgamate the fruit, and lastly the whipped whites of eggs and cream. When nearly frozen, add the Maraschino'. Mix well, and continue to freeze till set. Mould in the usual way, or serve rough on a dish. Dredge the shape with powdered chocolate, and serve. 125.—LA DAME BLANCHE. Line a freezing mould with white paper, and stand it in a charged freezer. Whisk separately i pint of cream and fo'ur whites of eggs, add 4 oz. castor sugar, flavour with vanilla essence and some Kirsch liqueur, amalgamate both eggs and cream, add a handful of finely- shredded blanched almonds, and pour into the prepared mould. Replace the mould in the charged freezer, and let it remain thus for five or six hours. To serve, unmould, remove the paper, and cut the ice into' squares or oblongs. Dish up, and serve with ice wafers. 126.—POUDING GLACE A LA PRINCESSE. Rub the fruit of eighteen stewed green- gages through a sieve, add a little syrup and a few drops of spinach greening, and freeze to the usual consistency for mould- ing. Peel the kernels of twenty-four young green walnuts, and pound them in a mortar with 8 oz. of castor sugar; add half a pint of cream, and rub the puree through a sieve. Mix with a gill of rich custard, flavour with noyeau liqueur, and freeze in the usual manner. Line a plain ice pudding mould with the greengage ice, fill the centre with the walnut ice, fix on the lid, wrap up in8g paper, and place the mould in crushed ice and salt. Keep it thus for three or four hours. Unmould, garnish the ice shape with small cornets or gaufrettes filled with whipped sweetened cream, and a preserved strawberry on top of each. Serve immediately. 127.—CHARLOTTE GLACEE A LA PRINCESSE. Prepare ij pints of rich ice cream custard, flavour it with a small glass of liqueur brandy, add \ gill of whipped cream; freeze this to the usual consis- tency for moulding. Line one or two plain charlotte moulds with white paper, previously rubbed over with good olive oil. Trim some finger or savoy biscuits, and range them neatly round the inside of the moulds. Mix i oz. of finely cut glace cherries with the ice mixture, and fill the moulds. Place the mould or moulds in a charged ice cave for twoi hours. When required for table, un- mould, carefully remove the paper, and ornament the top of charlotte with whipped cream coloured a pale pink, using a forcing bag with a rose tube for this purpose. This must be done very quickly, as it needs to be served imme- diately. 128.—CHARLOTTE RUSSE GLACEE. (Iced Russian Charlotte.) Line a charlotte mould with finger or savoy biscuits, also' fill in the bottom (rosette pattern) with biscuits, closely fitting. To a pint of vanilla custard, No. i, add a small liqueur glass of Maras- CHARLOTTE ICE MOULD.9 o chino, and freeze; then work in a gill of white cream. Fill the lined mould with this, place some more biscuits on the top, and pack the mould into a charged ice cabinet for about two’ hours, or if no ice cabinet is available, wrap the mould care- fully in several sheets of paper, stand in a pail, and surround with crushed ice and freezing salt; cover it with a tin lid and heap on plenty of crushed ioe and salt; cover all over with a thick cloth and leave for two' hours. When required to serve, remove the ioe, wipe the outside of the mould, dip it for a few seconds into cold water, and turn out on to' a suitable dish. Have ready in a forcing bag with a star tube some whipped cream, and pipe some star shapes neatly over the top of the charlotte ; sprinkle over a few chopped pistachio' nuts and serve at once. 129.—DENISES GLACES. (Ice Cream Sandwiches.) This is a most convenient and dainty way of serving almost any kind of ice. The ice wafers manufactured by Messrs. Peek, Frean and Co. are best adapted for this dish. These wafer's being quite plain and of delicate, light make, the true flavour of the ice is in no way impaired. When the ice cream or water ice is suf- ficiently frozen to' allow it being spread, cover a number of ice wafers with a layer of the ice; place a wafer on the top of each like a sandwich. Pack them in a charged ice pail or cave, place a paper between each layer, and keep thus till required for table. Messrs. Peek, Frean and Co. supply a most useful ice cream sandwich suitable for this purpose.9* 130.—CEUFS GLACE^S AUX NIDS. (Iced Eggs in Nests.) Fill up the required number of egg-shaped ice moulds with suitable cream ice mixture (frozen), wrap them in paper and pack them in ice for about two' hours. Next whip a pint or more of double cream ; unmould the ice eggs and coat each with whipped cream. Place them in a BIRD S NEST AND EGG MOULD. charged souffle case for another hour. Mean- while, boil a quantity of sugar till it ac- quires an amber-like colour, and spin the needed quantity of spun sugar with which shape a nest on a round dish. Range the eggs in this, and serve quickly. 131.—ANANAS GLACE A LA REINE ALEXANDRA. (Iced Pineapple, Queen Alexandra Style.) Procure a fair-sized ripe hot-house pine, cut off the top portion, and carefully scoop out the whole of the interior. Pound this in a mortar,and rub through a fine sieve. Boil up a pint of syrup, and add it to1 the strained juice of two lemons. Incorporate the latter with the fruit pulp, and put it when quite cold into the freez- ing pot surrounded with crushed ice and coarse salt. Freeze in the usual manner. When it begins to> get firm, work in a meringue mixture made with the white of an egg and half a gill of syrup whisked over the fire till the liaison is formed,92 then flavour with a little Kirschwasser, and work into the ice mixture. Continue the freezing operation till the ice is of the right consistency. When ready for serving ICED PINEAPPLE, A LA REINE ALEXANDRA. fill the pine apple shell with the ice, re- place the top. Dish up on a Genoese border decorated with halves of apricots or small peaches filled with vanilla ice. 132.—SPUN SUGAR FOR ICES, etc. Cook a pound of cane sugar with a gill of water and a pinch of cream of tartar in a copper sug'ar boiler. Remove the scum as it rises to’ the surface, and boil till it requires a very pale amber colour (this stage of sugar boiling is termed hard crack, and registers 300 deg. Fahr. on Senn’s Saccharometer). Remove from the fire, and take a clean fork or spoon,93 dip it into the sugar, and throw it toi and fro over an oiled wooden spoon handle or rolling pin. By this means you will get thin threads of sugar. A paper should be placed on the table while the operation goes on. 133.—GLACE PANACHEES EN SURPRISE. Freeze fairly firm three varieties of ice cream, vanilla, pistachio', and strawberry. Pack them into three plain moulds. About five minutes before serving un- mould them quickly on a deep silver dish; cover them quickly and completely with a stiff meringue mixture; decorate the surface a little, dredge with fine sugar, and put the dish quickly in a very sharp oven just long enough to set the egg meringue. Send to table imme- diately. 134. —COUPE ST. JACQUES. This is lemon water ice mixed with compote of fresh fruit, flavoured with Kirsch. Served in glasses. 135. —GLACE FLORENTINE. Line a bomb-shaped mould with filbert cream ice, and fill the centre with straw- berry water ice. Wrap up the mould, and freeze. 136. —GLACE A LA HAVANNE. Line an ice mould with coffee cream ice, mixed with pounded burnt sugar almonds (pralines), and fill up centre with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze in the usual way. 137.—GLACE MEXICAINE. Line a bomb mould with vanilla cream ice, and fill the centre with grated choco- late or a rich chocolate custard; cover94 4 with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze. 138.—GLACE GEORGETTE. Make a pineapple ice (No. 45). Mix it when partially frozen with pounded French almond rock. Mould in small fancy shaped pewter ice1 moulds; wrap them up in paper and bury in crushed ice and salt for one to two hours. Un- mould, and serve as dessert ices. 139.—GLACE MADELEINE. Line a pewter ice mould with vanilla ice, and fill the centre with minced pine- apple, moistened with syrup and Kirsch flavouring"; fill up with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze. 140.—POUDING SOUFFLE A LA MARQUISE. Prepare a souffle as directed in No. 106, but omitting" the gelatine; partially freeze the mixture and fill in a souffle dish with a rich strawberry cream in the centre. Place the dish in a charged ice cave for two hours, and serve. 141.—GLACE SAVOYARDE. Ingredients. 1 shredded wheat biscuit. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. loaf sugar. 1 oz. chocolate. 4 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. 1 in.vanilla pod. \ pint cream. Ice and freezing salt. the wheat bis- cuit, boil up the milk with the sugar, Method.—Crush finely95 chocolate, and vanilla, and pour over the crushed biscuit. Make a caramel by boiling* the loaf sug*ar with very little water to dark amber colour, and moisten with milk. Add this to' the above. Beat up the eggs, and stir into the milk, etc. Reheat, and let cool. Whip up the cream and add it when cold. Remove vanilla. Freeze in the usual way and mould. 142.—ORANGES GLACEES A LA NAPOLITAINE (Iced Oranges, Neapolitan Style.) Ingredients. 4-6 fine even-sized oranges. Vanilla custard. Wine jelly. Spinach greening. 1 glass green Chartreuse. Method.—Wipe the oranges, make an incision on the top of each with a pastry cutter about l|rn. diameter, remove the covers with a small knife, and lay them aside till later. Scoop out the centre of the oranges with a small teaspoon, being careful not to> break the skin (the pulp may be used for some other purpose). Arrange the orange shells in a tin, place the tin in a basin or tub surrounded with broken ice. Fill the oranges in alternate layers with vanilla cream and jelly, the latter being prepared in two colours (red and green), being flavoured with rasp- berry and Curagoa or Chartreuse. Each layer must be set before the other is poured in. Put on the covers before the top layer is set. Wrap the oranges in kitchen paper, and place them in the ice cave for about two' hours. When well set and firm, cut the oranges carefully into quarters (this is best dome with a knife dipped in hot water), dress them on arecipe No. 106, flavour it with Cura9oa dish with a folded napkin or dish papers, and serve. 143. —ORANGES GLACISES A LA PORTUGAISE. Prepare eight oranges as directed in the foregoing recipe. Steep them in cold water when hollowed out. Drain them and wipe carefully, so as not to' injure the rind. Cut some glace fruit into fine shreds or dice, and steep in Maraschino liqueur. Mix these with orange ice (No. 39), and fill the oranges with it. Cover each with the small piece removed for the purpose of removing the pulp, and place the oranges in a freezer (Sorbetiere) ; sur- round the latter with ice and salt, and keep thus for two hours. Take them out and dish up 00 vine leaves or on a folded napkin. 144. —GLACE A LA SARAH-BERNHARDT. Prepare a light souffle mixture as directed in No. 106, flavour it with rose water, freeze it a little, and line with it a bomb mould ; fill the centre with a light custard containing crushed crystallised violets, complete filling with souffle mixture, pack in a charged ice cave or freezing pot, and keep thus for three hours; unmould, and decorate with glace violets. 145.—PETITS SOUFFLES A LA TOSCA. Prepare a coffee ice as directed in recipe No. 31, flavour it with cream (whipped) and Kirsch, and fill into small paper cases, freeze them in a charged ice cabinet for two hours, and serve. 146. —PETITS SOUFFLES A LA FEDORA. Prepare a vanilla souffle as directed in97 liqueur, and fill into small souffle cases with a mixture oif glace cherries in centre. Freeze them in a charged ice cave. When serving", place a g'lace cherry and some angelica leaves on top of each as garnish. 147.—ICED FRUITS. Any desirable fruit may be iced by dip- ping, first, in the beaten white of an egg, then in coarse or granulated sugar. Do1 this until the sugar coating is sufficiently thick. Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet juicy pears are treated in the same way. Cherries, straw- berries, and other small fruits are iced with the stems on, only the largest being chosen. Pineapples should be cut into thin slices, and these again divided into quarters. Oranges and lemons should be carefully pared and all the white skin re- moved. Lemons are cut into1 horizontal slices, and oranges are divided into quarters. COOLING CUPS. The beverage known as “ Cups ” is generally a combination of liquors. Some of these preparations are exceed- ingly popular among all classes. The earliest known form of these is the “ lov- ing cup,” which still survives at society and municipal banquets. It was not until about a century ago that the word “ cup,” in the sense of a mixed drink, be- came known and introduced. Every cup has now its distinctive name, and is generally called after the principal wine or other beverage it contains. The following are the recipes for the most popular and best known cups ; these G98 will, at this season, prove useful to some of our readers. It is well to' note that the most delicious cups should not contain any ice, but that the mixture should be placed on the ice, in order to get them perfectly cool before serving*. 148.—CHAMPAGNE CUP (Iced). Ingredients, i bottle of champagne. 1 liqueur glass of old brandy. 2 bottles of seltzer or soda water. \ teaspoonfiil Maraschino. Borage and lemon peel to taste. 149.—PARISIAN CHAMPAGNE CUP. Ingredients. i bottle of champagne (iced). 1 table-spoonful Swiss Absinthe. 2 bottles seltzer water. | gill syrup. Verbena, and slices of cucumber. 150.—SPARKLING HOCK OR MOSELLE CUP (Iced). Ingredients. i bottle of sparkling hock or moselle. ! liqueur glass of Cur ago a or Benedictine. 1 liqueur glass of old brandy. 2 bottles of seltzer or soda water. Borage and lemon peel to taste. 151.—BURGUNDY CUP. Ingredients, i bottle Burgundy (iced). J bottle port. The juice of 2 oranges. The juice of i lemon. i small glass Chartreuse. 2-3 slices of cucumber. 1 sprig of lemon thyme. Sugar to taste. 2 bottles' soda water.99 152.—LIQUEUR CUP. A delicious and cooling- punch for warm weather is made as follows : — The juice of three lemons, juice of two small oranges, and one orange: sliced thin, a pint of water, a pint of claret, a table-spoonful of Maraschino, and a tea- spoonful of Ivirsch. Add three heaped-up teaspoonfuls of sugar, and throw all over a large block of ice in the punch-bowl. Allow it to stand and cool on the ice for about ten minutes. 153.—CLARET CUP.—No. 1. Ingredients. i bottle of claret. J gill sherry. i table-spoonful of brandy. i liqueur glass of noyeau. 1 table-spoonful of Maraschino. The thin rind of a lemon. Two sprigs of balm. Borage or a sprig of verbena. 2 bottles of soda or seltzer water. Sugar to taste. Method.—Put the wine into a large jug, add about three table-spoonfuls of castor sugar and the lemon rind. Cover, and let it stand for half an hour. Now add the liqueurs and the balm, and bor- age or verbena, also the minerals. Place the jug on the ice, or put a lump of clean ice in the jug, and use when iced up. A few thin slices of cucumber may be used in place of balm and borage, if the latter is not procurable. Sliced fruit, such as peaches, nectarines, raspberries, etc., are often used. In this case the lemon rind should be omitted. The juice of lemon and orange is also frequently added to all kinds of wine cups.IO0 154.—CLARET CUP.—No. 2. Ingredients. 2 bottles of claret. i liqueur glass of Curapoa and I liqueur glass of old brandy, or i large glass of sherry. 3 bottles of soda or seltzer water. Borage and lemon peel to taste. 155.—ZELTLINGER CUP. Pour a bottle of Zeltlinger wine into a two-quart jug, add five or six thin slices of fresh or preserved pineapple, the juice and thin rind of i lemon, and \ gull of sherry, Marsala or Cognac, and a few lumps of ice. Sweeten to- taste, and add a large bottle of seltzer water, or, failing this, a syphon of soda water just before serving. 156.—CYDER CUP. i bottle of cyder. i bottle of soda water. \ bottle of champagne, or sherry glass of brandy. Note.—Do> not put any ice in cup, but place all cups in ice when finished. 157. —CYDER BOWL. A drink that is very much liked in the Western counties, where cyder is the ordinary table beverage, is made by squeezing the juice of three lemons, and putting it with half a pound of castor sugar into1 half a gallon of freshly drawn cyder. 158. — “ MAI-BOWLE.” This is the name of a favourite fruit wine cup, popular throughout Germany, but more especially in the Rhine districts. There are many recipes put forth for thisIOI drink, the following- being- the most suc- cessful and most popular of all: — Ingredients. h a handful of Waldmeister (asperule odorata). 2 oranges. A few black-currant leaves. 1 lemon. 2 bottles Moselle wine. i lb. sugar. Method.—Clean the leaves of the herbs, peel the oranges, and remove the white skin, cut these into' thin slices, slice the lemon, and put all in a basin ; pour over the wine, add the sugar (castor), and keep covered in a very cool place, or set it on the ice, for an hour. Serve in cups or glasses. Strawberries, raspberries, peaches and apricots are at times intro- duced into' this preparation, and these fruits form a most pleasant change. 159.—MAITRANK, OR MOSELLE CUP. This is the name of a favourite German drink. It is best made in a punch-bowl with a large piece of ice in it. Pour first a bottle of still Hock, Moselle, or any white Rhine wine, over the ice, add two bottles of seltzer or soda wrater, sugar to taste, and a small bottle of Maitrank, which is a delicious flavour- ing made from the blossoms of the sweet woodruff, which flowers in the woods during the month of May; hence the drink is popularly known as Maitrank. 160.—PINEAPPLE SHERBET. A very nice cool drink, in addition to the usual lemonade, soda water, etc., is pineapple sherbet. Take one large pine- apple, slice and chop fine, and mix in102 three quarts of water. Add the juice of four lemons, sugar to taste, strain, and stand the jug in the ice box. 161.—BACCHUS CUP. Pour into a clean jug one bottle of champagne, one pint of sherry, \ pint of brandy, one wineglassful of noyeau, a few balm leaves, 4 oz. castor sugar, a large piece of clear ice. Let the mixture stand for a little while, then, just before serving, add two> bottles of seltzer or potash water, and serve. This cup is delicious, but rather expensive. 162.—WHISKY PUNCH. Take half a pound of loaf sugar, and with it rub off the rinds of three lemons ; put into' a basin, and pour over this a quart of boiling water. When the sugar is dissolved, pour all into the punch bowl. Now add the juice of the three lemons, passed through a strainer. When cold, add a bottle of Scotch whisky. Pack the bowl in a large vessel or bath surrounded with ice ; let the punch stand thus for at least one hour before it is served.103 INDEX. PAGE American Tea (The Americaine) Ice 33 Ananas Glace a la Reine Alexandra 91 Appliances for Ice Making 7 Apricot (Abricot) Ice 31,42 Apricot Sorbet 51 Art of Ice Making, The 5 Bacchus Cup 102 Banana (Banane) Ice 28, 30, 44 Biscotines Glacee a la Turque 77 Bisque Glacee 84 Bombe Glacee aux Amandes Pralines 78 Bouquet Punch 61 Brown Bread (Pain Noir) Ice 25 Burgundy Cup 98 Eurnt Almonds (Amandes Brulees) Ice ... 26, 29 Cafe a la Neige 62 Caramel Ice 29 Cardinal. Punch a la 59 Champagne Cup (Iced) 98 Champagne Granite 56 Charlotte Glacee a la Creole 86 Charlotte Glacee a la Princesse 89 Cherry (Cerises) Ice 27, 41 Cherry Sorbet 50 Chocolate Ice 31 Chocolate Parfait 64 Claret Cup 99,100 Claret Ice (Glace au Vin de Bordeaux) 84 Coffee (Cafe) Ice 34 Coffee, Iced (Cafe Frappe a la Vanille) 61 Coffee, Iced (another way) (Cafe Glace en Verres) 62 Cooling Cups 97-102 Coupes Frappees a la Capucine 57 Coupes Mikado 54 Coupe St. Jacques 93 Coupes Voltaire 55 Cream Ices 18-34 Cream Sorbet 52 Currant, Black (Cassis) 43104 PAGE Currant, Red (Groseilles) 43 Cyder Cup 100 Cyder Bowl 100 Dame Blanche, La 88 Denises Glaces 90 Eggs, Iced, in Nests 91 Elementary Methods 7-17 Fancy, Mixed and Dessert Ices 75-97 Freezing, Hints on 11 Freezing without Ice 14 Fresh Fruit Cream Ice 23 Fruits, Iced 97 Gateau Surprise 85 Ginger (Gingembre) Ice 25, 44 Glaces Cremes, see Cream Ices 18 ,, Fantaises, see Fancy Ices 75 ,, a l’Eau, see Water Ices 34 Glace au Cafe Blanc 82 ,, Florentine 93 „ Georgette 94 ,, a la Havanne 93 ,, Madeleine 94 ,, Mexicaine 93 ,, Napolitaine (Neapolitan) 76 ,, Panachees en Surprise 93 ,, Plombiere a la Japonaise 82 ,, Rochet Volcano 83 ,, a la Sarah Bernhardt 96 ,, Savoyarde 94 Gooseberry Sorbet 4S Gooseberry Sorbet with Maraschino 48 Granites 55, 56 Grape Ice 43 Grape Sorbet 53 Hazelnut or Filbert (Noisette) Ice 26 Ice Making, Useful Hints and Rules 15 Imitation Glass Moulds and Cups 46 Imperiale, Punch a 1’ 58 Imperiale Sorbet 50 Ingredients, On the Use of 10 Italian Meringue (Used for Sorbets) 48 Kirsch, Punch au 59105 PAGE Lait, Prnch au 58 Lemon (Citron) Ice 24, 37 Lemon Granite 55 Lemon Sorbet 53 Liqueur Cup 99 “ Mai-Bowle ” 100 Maitrank or Moselle Cup 101 Maraschino Ice 45 Melon Ice 39 Melon Sorbet 51 Milk Punch 58 Moka, Parfait au 64 Moulding of Ices 16 Mousse a 1’An anas 67 ,, Frappee a la Genevoise 69 ,, Frappee, Prince Piickler 70 ,, Glace au Cafe Noir 68 ,, au Marasquin 66 ,, Palermo aux Pralines 70 Nansen, Punch a la 58 Neapolitan Ice (Glace Napolitaine) 76 Ni5oise, Punch a la 57 Nougat, Parfait au 63 Noyeau Sorbet 52 Oranges Glacees a la Napolitaine 95 Oranges Glacees a la Portugaise 96 Orange Ice 24,38 Orange Sorbet 53 Parfaits, Mousses and SouffiJss 63-78 Parisian Champagne Cup 98 Peach (Peche) Ice 3 2, 40 Peach Sorbet 51 Pear (Poire) Ice 33, 39 Petits Souffles a la Fedora 96 Petits Souffles a la Tosca 96 Pineapple (Ananas) Granite 55 ,, Ice 25, 41 ,, Sherbet 101 ,, Sorbet 49 Pouding Glace a la Nesselrode 81 ,, Glace a la Prin cesse 88 ,, Glace a la Rein e 79 ,, Souffle a la Fruitiere 80 Souffle a la Marquise 94io6 PAGE Preserved Fruits, Jams, etc 21 Punches Raspberry (Framboise) Granite 56 Raspberry Ice 22, 42 Romaine, Punch a la 60 Royale, Punch a la 59 Russian Charlotte, Iced 89 Saxon Ice 29 Sorbets 46-54 Sorbet a la Stephaine 54 Souffle Glace a la Dumas 72 ,, Frappe arx Framboises 73 ,, Frappe a la Marguerite 73 ,, Frappe a la Sabayon 71 ,, a la Frontignan 78 Spun Sugar for Decorating 92 Sparkling Hock or Moselle Cup 98 Strawberry Ice 21,22,40,42 Strawberry Sorbet 48 Surprises d’Oranges 65 Syrup for Ices 35, 36 Tangerine Ice 38 Tea (The) Ice 32 Tea. Par fait 64 Turque, Parfait a la 66 Tutti-Frutti Glace 87 Unmoulding and Serving Ices 17 Vanilla (Vanille) Ice 19,20,36 Various Parfaits 65 Vin de Bordeaux (Claret Ice) 84 Walnut (Noix) Ice 27 Water Ices 34-46 Water Ice made from Jam 36 Whisky Punch 102 Zeltlinger Cup 100107 Professional Books FOR COOKS AND OTHERS. The Practical Cookery Manual. Fourth En- larged Edition. A Family Cook-Book, compiled on popular lines to meet the present-da} requirements. Some 400 Recipes of Plain and Middle class Cooking. Fourth Edition. Price Is.; post free, Is. 3d. Special Binding, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; by post, 2s. 9d. The New Century Cookery Book. New, Revised, and Enlarged Edition. ByC. Herman Senn, G.C.A. A work full of sound and useful information, and of the greatest service to every Cook, Manager, or Steward. It is the most complete and reliable of all vade-mecums for Chefs. It is handy, luminous, and skilfully arranged and easily consulted. Profusely illustrated. Strongly bound, in leather. Price 21s. ; by post, 21s. 9d. Edition de Luxe, 33s. Recherche Side Dishes (Hors-d’CEuyre and Savouries!. Fourth Enlarged and Revised Edition, now ready. By C. Herman Senn, G.C.A. A handy book of Recipes for dainty Hors-d’CEuvre, Savouries, Salads, Sand- wiches, and Oriental Dishes, containing nearly COO reliable Re- cipes. Price 3s. 6d. ; by post, 3s. lOd. The Art of Pastry-Making1; French and Englfsh. By Emile Herisse, late Chief Pastry-cook Confectioner. Including Cakes, Sweetmeats, and Fancy Bis- cuits. With 40 Illustrations. Price 2s. Gd. ; by post, 2s. 9d. Senn’s Culinary Eneycloj:sedia. ADictionary of Technical Terms, the Names of Foods, Ccoking Auxiliaries, Condiments, and Beverages. Specially adapted for Chefs, Hotel and Restaurant Managers, Cookery Teachers, etc. Price Is.; by post, Is. 2d. How to Cook Eggs and Omelets. By C. H erman Senn. 250 ways of preparing, cooking, and seiving Eggs and Omelets. Price Is. Gd. ; by post, Is. 8d. Savoury Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper Dishes. ByC. Herman Senn. A Collection of some GOO useful Recipesof easy and distinct directions for economical yet elegant dishes. Price 3s. Cd. : by post, 3s. 9d. Ices, and How to Make Them. A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffles, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc., etc. Price 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d. Reehereh4 Entries. By C. Herman Senn. A collection of the latest and most popular dishes, including Fish, Vegetable and Farinage Dishes, with chapters on Meat Entries, Poultry Entries and Game Entries. Price 5s. ; by post, 5s. 4d. The Post-Grade Cookery Book. By A. Meyer, M.C.A., the well-known Chef of the Union Club, Ntw York. A work giving many new recipes and supplementary matter to existing standard works on Cookery and kindred branches of Gastronomy. Price 5s.; by post, 5s. 4d.io8 Professional Books—continued. A Book of Salads; op, the Art of Salad Dressing1. By Alfred Suzanne, M.C.A., with Appendix bv C. Herman Senn. This little hook is unquestionably the best in existence. It contains Recipes for Green Salads, Vege- table Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads, Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully treated. Price Is. Gd. ; by post, Is. 8d. Practical Gastronomy and French Menus; or. The Complete Menu Compiler and Register Of Dishes. By C. Herman Senn. Apractical treatise on up-to-date Cookery and Gastronomy. This is not a recipe book, but a guide-book for Chefs and Managers. Price 5s. ; by post, 5s. 3d. Curries, and How to Prepare Them. Com- piled by J. Edmunds. Recipes by E. Francatelli, C. Her- man Senn, and other eminent Chefs. Price 6d. ; by post, 7d. Cookery for Invalids and the Conva- lescent. A Collection of valuable Recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for invalids and convalescents. Diet Tables and other useful information. Price Is. 6d. ; by post, Is. 8d. Chafing-Dish and Casserole Cookery. By C. Herman Senn. A neatly got-up little book, dealing with the above subjects, which are coming rapidly back to popularity ; and this manual is full of excellent recipes and practical advice, to suit everyone’s taste and pocket. Price Is. Gd. ; by post, Is. 8d. Cooking in Stoneware. A Handbook giving full directions for cooking food in earthenware pans or casseroles. Price Gd. ; by postj 7d. The Popular Cookery Book. A compact Cookery Manual for Dishes for small Households. Price Gd. ; by post, 8d. Any of the above-mentioned Works may be obtained from the— FOOD AMD COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W. Remittances must in every case accompany orders. Cheques and Postal Orders should be crossed and made payable to the Manager.t-:v OP: •;M]| ’ Li LT-.y-" **: w-vTv!%r »*ypv’f ^r»Tr^ &:?mm '■ " J-% ' O- .v »•' •••• '■ ••. :■**»**■• n ,-i. - •'- avi> . t(® »3#F$3iftkf2-. . • v-iJ-*- I* ”*-f XL - >->•■ ri L ,‘i-li .>• IjC ' >.5g; •• ‘Jrkiwilf’ •:*:*:: . V-.JHR- •SSBRBfP JB. . P-^ahJ ' f , , J- sssSk'' - ■ I, If* ;r-i:-i '• -V -. =.. ' ,: ■ ■ v ■■ • il -'3N»h^ u‘- *•■* • *- - •,'•••; ••-tj; fwM •-y'ij:q^.-.yl .■'• *'*•* - ^£r • • •T-5-**r* . 'ihjiyr.' . «}£' Jjft: ' " •’■ -i:' .-. *-UuM ■ -'■ •• '. Ilf ^&r; ; , S **v*g ^ / .'•’• JW •:•■/•r'.*;* . . TOJJlfc.fT W » Ijr ^fc... ;-■■ ■ ffi' »• t.- wfldi. '--iA'5 li. v *££;*?^graj'- i---. r ’.-• i‘"‘- *r3 - • •• .-•• 3y^^''-' •>*•?! *r - ifc* -'v'!.;; ....ifc A^Au.^tribato>.-iate- Mtn. ..~ * • -'.' ■: jar's. i a. <V- ■ ■-• •«,. saw. ‘♦’•WHS .*’- **5 .3 ;.: - : W 1 ? L'g^ ’ ' •' --- • . I >■v ’ •*'_'/ '■•••& ■ ■ ■ ' :7; ■^kT ■■ •. , mzfi M ^ It V j :- • ♦* -rr' =• • 'x•■•• • ; ■ r« a> ■,?«>:-• ,, •v‘:'- : j?.!..-»:...' ;.. .v; -H: 3*h7<** »-';•>; ^ r-^^p -1W > ?L*r Lrj tjJSu&i• !• *AJ 1 .f»*. . M . .- *_ v' >.. ’i-j» ' ii_*. ’', ' ‘•>^f|'r.'’'• v* •• - v-*\,•' ';«t**4V'■''*• ^r>% s r 5 vf<: ;c? ■■••.* '■;.‘;J^ :4‘w-': • •; • . .. : fc* Z\ < t '•* 'I-*': ■ -* '.'. A." 1 A " ««-- ■ ....