4 the matter with him, had he not read of a case which occurred a short time before in the Royal. During the last hundred years there hav'e been in the Royal and Western five ca.ses altogether. Curiously enough, all the ca.ses have taken place within the last twenty years, and since the muzzling order came into force. {^Lancet, 1877.) Double plopiteal anem’ism.—This rare ca.sc was placed under my care by my friend Dr John Burns. We thought of trying pressure, and quite a number of volunteers offered their services. The order given was to “ stop the pulsation in the aneurism completely, and keep it .so,” and the order was literally carried out. The gentlemen in attendance on the case found that from fifteen to twenty minutes was as long a period as any of them could compress the artery. Two, at least, were always at the bedside, while one stood compressing the vessel, the other kept his open hand over the sac. One was cured in twelve, and the other in nine hours. {^Lancet, 1877.) Nephrotomy.— In the winter of 1887, Dr Finlayson took into his wards a female, aged thirty-eight, suffering from renal disturbance. After studying the case with his usual care, de- liberation and accuracy, my worthy colleague came to the conclusion that there was probably a stone in the left kidne)^ Patient was placed under chloroform on the table, in a crowded theatre, and the operation started. On reaching the deeply placed plum-coloured organ, I went very carefully over the surface with the tip of my finger, and at one .spot I fancied it somewhat soft and yielding. An ordinary h}’drocele trocar and canula were pushed in, when, on withdrawing the trocar, a couple of drachms of pus ran out. Enlarging the wound by means of a curved probe-pointed bistoury, the forefinger was pa.ssed in, and with my nail I picked out two tiny uric acid calculi. This, to me, an anxious operation, and so far as known to me, was its first performance in Scotland. The patient did well. {CNas. Med. Jour.. 1879.) The space so kindly placed at my disposal in the W estern Infirmary consisted of three small wards, two for males and one for females, containing collectively nineteen beds. Years ivork from \st Nov. 1877 to \st Nov.. 1878.— Operations on indoor patients, 119 with 6 deaths, 5 per cent. {Glas. Med. Jour.. 1879.)