3 Surgical Reininisce7ices. “ The exacerbations occur very frequently, and he asks often for a drink. It is at once seen that the head is drawn down, nearly touching the left acromion, the left sterno-mastoid being greatly contracted, whilst the face looks away to the opposite shoulder. On examining further, the spine is found to be concave to the left side, while both legs are drawn to the left; the lad, in fact, suffers from tetanus lateralis. “ The whole body is cur\’ed so as to be. concave to the left, the hands and arm.s, from the elbow downwards, remaining free. Nine hours after death, which took place on the 30th of November, the body was not in the least relaxed, but still retained its lateral curve. Sir Thomas Watson states that he had never met with a case of pleurosthotonos.” {Glasgow Medical Journal, 1873.) Case of ununited fracture, in the treatment of tvhich, a portion of dog's bone was used as a means of frocurmg union.— A marine engineer, aged forty-three, was admitted to the Royal Infirmary, 15th August 1874, for the purpose of having his arm amputated, for what had been originally a simple fracture of both bones of forearm. Attacked by erysipelas, eventually about three quarters of an inch of the radius died, and on admission the hand and arm, below the seat of non-union, act simply as a flail. A portion of the humerus of a retriever was placed in the gap in the radius, and the ends of the fractured ulna wired. Al- though sometime afterwards the added bone came away about half its size, the bones were firmly united, and the man went back to his employment. This, I fancy, was one of the earliest cases in this country of bone transplantation. {Lancet, 1878.) In the Glasgow Medical Journal for 1874 was published: “ Five consecutive cases oj compound Jracture into, and dislocation of, ankle-joint treated a?itiseptically, successfully.” Nowadays, this would, of course, be deemed unworthy of notice. At that date, perhaps, nothing could have shown more thoroughly the value of the antiseptic treatment. The last fourteen ca.ses of the same accident, treated by Mr Syme in the Edinburgh Infirmary, had all terminated fatally. It fell to my lot to have the only case of hydrophobia which has ever been in the Western Infirmary'. The poor fellow told me that he thought there would have been nothing