2 surgery, can fancy how enjoyable was this kind of life. I became a sort of daily hanger on, anxious and delighted if I could be of only the slightest assistance to any member of the staff. Besides, there was the great boon of being present at all consultations, and listening to the reasoning and opinions of your more experienced seniors. More than all. Sir Joseph, then Mr Lister, was engaged in carrying out the various grades of his wonderful antiseptic programme, and you may rely upon it his doings were keenly watched. At the termination of those seven happy years, something transpired which led to my resignation. Never much addicted to despondency, I confess that for two weeks I was despondent, very, when all at once a ray of sunshine—of the very brightest sunshine—came, in the form of a deputation from the managers of the Western Infirmary, asking me to cast in my lot with them. It goes without saying, that, in return for such exceptional courtesy, I have at least tried to do my duty. With your permission, gentlemen, I shall give you, shortly, cases occur- ring at different times, and which, to me at least, were of much interest. Southern Medical Society, 26th December 1872.— Tetanus lateralis.—As this is so rare, very few men living can have witnessed it, so I shall venture to give it here :—“ P. M., a collier, aged fifteen years, admitted to the Royal Infirmary on 25th November 1872. Exactly four weeks ago the wheel of a truck passed over his right leg at the union of the middle and lower third. On admission he is found to be in an ex- tremely exhausted condition, perspiring freely, pulse 125; he also suffers from phthisis. On examining the seat of injur}', a curious state of matters presents itself. About two inches of the upper fragment of the tibia is seen projecting from the wound, whilst the lower fragment is placed at nearly right angles to the perpendicular axis of the limb, and united partially by unossified tissue. There was some discharge, slight redness around the wound, and oedema of the limb. A more terrible complication existed ; he was suffering from tetanus, which set in, with stiffness of the neck and jaw, fourteen days ago. He can separate the teeth about a quarter of an inch, and can speak and swallow with toler- able ease.