Surgical Rejniniscences n Open joint in jinger.—An arthritic finger-joint is met with almost daily. Provided the shaft of the phalanx be not dead, the finger should not be removed. Let it be put up in a leaden splint, with gauze dressing, then a forearm splint. The finger ought to be semi-flexed, and so fixed—not straight, as if anchy- losed in the straight position it would prove worse than useless. The use of stimulants certainly does not lower the death- rate in hospital surgical practice. The amount of brandy used, although small, is chiefly consumed in emergencies, i.e., patients brought in with serious injuries and suffering from shock, or in operations producing a similar effect on the nervous system, such as amputation at the hip-joint, pro- longed ovariotomies or hysterectomies. I have never pre- scribed an ounce of whisky for an hospital patient, and our lowest point was reached last March, when the total stimulant expenditure was 3 ounces of brandy for the month. Now, gentlemen, I come to a matter which I think is of the utmost importance in hospital management. I mean over- crowding. I plead guilty to having habitually overcrowded my wards. Has it told upon the welfare of the patients or the death-rate ? Most certainly not. I have always held to the opinion that the more patients we could pass through our wards, the better it would be for suffering humanity, and better for the funds of the hospital. At the top of each window is a fanlight, and summer and winter, day and night, all those years, a number of the fanlights on both sides of each ward have been kept open, with the result that there is always a airrent or draught of fresh air passing through. Theoretically, this looks dangerous, whilst in reality it is exactly the reverse. It has been frequently observed that patients coming into the.se wards with a bronchitic cough, cease their coughing in a very short time. The patients practically sleep in the open air. I here hazard the opinion that wards cannot, in any ordinary ciraimstances, be overcrowded, where this simple plan of ventila- tion IS strictly earned out. All of us spend more time in the bedroom than in any other room in the house, and surely it ought to be the best ventilated apartment. The bedroom window of the writer has not been shut for many years, either summer or winter. That this, were it universally adopted, would prove to be the most efficacious of all sanitary laws, I have not the slightest doubt.