Surgical Reminiscences 5 Year's work from 31^'/ Oct. 1878 to \st Aov. 1879-— 280 resident patients admitted, upon whom 162 operations were performed, with 7 deaths, a death-rate of 4'3 per cent. The cost of stimulants for each patient per annum amounted to 7Ad. “No case of erysipelas occurred during the year, and since the wards were opened four years ago, there has not been a single case of pyaemia.” This was written in reply to Mr Savory of St Bartholomew’s. {Lancet^ 1880.) Suprapubic Lithotomy.—H. D., aged forty-eight, admitted to VV'ard XIV., on 22nd Feb., 1881. Has suffered from bladder irritation for twenty-four years, exactly half his life time, and he makes a remarkable statement, namely, that during all that time he has not. so far as he could observe, passed a single drop of blood. The sound detected the presence of a large, \ery rough, hard stone. Attempted removal by lateral litho- tomy failing, the stone was removed by the suprapubic operation. This was the first successful case performed in Glasgow. The man is alive and well. {Glas. Med. Jour.., 1882.) Case of utero-ovarian amputation for uterine fibroid com- bined with pregnancy on the i i th December 1884. At that date this operation had been performed four times in England, three times in Germany, once in Belgium, once in the United States, and once in New South Wales. Mrs M.’s case was thus the eleventh on record, and at that time, the only one in Scotland. This patient I saw some weeks ago, and she remains quite well. {Glas. Med. Jour., 1885.) Case of double uterus.—On the 3rd of March 1885, the superintendent of the Western received a telegram from a country practitioner, to the effect that he had a case of extra- uterine pregnancy, urgent, for which he wi.shed admi.ssion. On examination, the mamma; arc observed to contain milk. The abdomen presents the ordinary appearance of pregnancy at the .seventh or eighth month, and the foetal heart can be felt pulsat- ing near the umbilicus. With regard to the appearance of the abdomen, some years ago, through the courtesy of my friends Dr Lennox of Hamilton and Dr Stewart of Carluke, I had the rare privilege of operating in a case of extra-uterine pregnancy —a ca.se which had been most correctly diagnosed in the earlier months, and watched w’ith great care until the end of the ninth month. In that case the abdomen was flat, entirely unlike an