6 ordinary pregnancy, and altogether unlike that of our patient ; the child’s head lay in the left iliac fossa and could be easily felt and seen through the attenuated abdominal \\ all ; the elbows and knees of the child c(^uld also be clearly made out. On making an incision in the middle line, a tumour of an intensely interesting kind was exposed. No part of the child was visible, but a large, grayish, papery looking cyst, presenting the appearance exactly of a \ ery large wasjis’ nest, was brought into view, which on being gently touched with the forefinger tip, broke up into small flakes, exposing a healthy, vigorous child. The ca.se was one of peculiar interest. The mother died four days after operation. M. S., aged twenty-five, single, admitted on 3rd March 1885.—Patient is flushed, restles.s, and in a state of high fever. T. 102 , P. I 10. On proceeding to make a vaginal examina- tion, a strongly urinous odour was tioticed, and a mixture of pus, blood and, apparently, urine, was seen to be flowing from the vagina. On introducing an oiled finger into the canal, a larger opening was discovered in the posterior wall of the bladder, and near to this 1 introduced my finger into what 1 took to be the os uteri with the cervix torn, and this rent was carried into the vaginal wall, away backwards behind the rectum. I felt neither membranes nor child, and, being fairly puzzled, never dreaming of a .second os, my respected colleague Dr \'V. L. Reid was asked to examine the case. He examined patient with great care, as he always does, and detected an os with membranes entire, and felt the child’s head ; at the same time, I think he gently hinted that 1 had been mistaken with regard to what I had made out. Under the circumstances, we did the best we could for her, and on the 1 5 th March a male child was born, which survived only eighteen hours. Rigors and high temperature continued—a large akscess filling the left iliac fossa and extending upwards was opened. She died on the ist of April. Post-mortevi by Dr Coats on the 3rd April. Abscess took its starting-point from the tear in the vagina, and made its way upwards to the diaphragm, which had its tissues thickened and infiltrated with pus, and the left pleural cavity also contained pus. In the pelvis were found two distinct uteri, the right measuring, from os tcj fundus, 4^ inches, with a total breadth of 2.1 inches ; and the left, from os to fundus, 4] inches, with a