••■S.• L - * ’3. ; ,c. .i^rAy **»?*^. *• •: >> ■-.».■ .-• t; 2*S<j^4»5'r -.■-.».■ .-•'S'' ■ • V.- ■»>&>■■ ■ ■ ■■ ■■ ••••.’rff-i-'---"'* ■ s .-■■ ^ii<3y*"^^aaiawgiTOfo^^^ -----AV-'r* ■■ V.. ■ ■ '’?i>iV-'-■«'. . --.^Js'. • ': ' •* ^ ■ v-:*^ ••••^*' ---;*^ ^ ^ ■- -.. - . -- - - • - - , , . . ; ' ;\V . Ji'^-'i^-*,^ -> ' A'-^s ' ^. ' ' ■•?Vi‘''' ^ : ■ ' - >'y5V■S^.; v"^>,-- ■ ■ ■ ■‘-■.a.^JT '-'-r"^ 3'j!'" V: . ■•r> f.4^^V06S'.> " ' "' •Vi'^ -T' ■ tcij-'%" •< ^-■'■.'. . ;.'.;’';tr?W A.-. :',^V'-■-. -■. / •■■•» ■:■ ■ .. «^' .■'•'>»- » - sr S. '»«.•❖,►'-T. '. ' -v' ,«<S .. ; ■ •^- ■ ,-' ■ . •■;■- ■”'■'■ pf. i-wv, • -,,■■ , ■-%• -* V ''*y^ >• ^'»i-A-«^,V'« ^.' * •■> -: ;> - ■■ ■ '\a.' ■>. ^-v ' v--.V V^' Q - .- - • . . ■ . , t:'•'■'.'i’.^. •,:• i 1 ' ■ :.'~.'f'li!c^*''>'«‘■^>?-'‘i''v''■'!i 'iv- ^ ■ ■'■' ■' ■•--•. .V.ii:’ -. ' ■■-■ .-■ =r: ■ •-'i''''i'''-'''y " ■ ■>- -.rv - ->-i ?r^-rlA- •■ ♦■■ -V^v-■.'-- . ■; .A ■■ -ff. ‘'- A*'' r • V./ ; .i; • ■*«^ -•>•'>- . .v*^V' . ••y ‘-i \ 5 ' \ « ♦. A -.A V:' *■ aJ5v.£' - .V t >• ■» 1*Xry / .f ^ 'yy^'-^'¥ y. SURGICAL ESSAYS. '^V >\ w»v,v\ \ \ "S n T.JKSi 9 .1 4 % WOODFALL* PBINTER, AN'^EL-COURT, SKINNBR-STEEET, LONDON.SURGICAL ESSAYS BY ASTLEY COOPER, F.R.S. SURGEON TO GUY’s HOSPITAE ; AND BENJAMIN TRAVERS, F.R.S. SURGEON TO ST. THOMAs’s HOSPITAL. ' printed for COX AND SON, ST. THOMASES STREET, SOUTHWARK; LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME AND BROWN, PATERNOSTER ROW; A^ CONSTABLE AND CO. EDINBURGH ; SMITH AND SON, GLASGOW ; AND HODQES AND M‘ARTHUR, DUBLIN. 18l».TO ABEL CHAPMAN, Esq. TREASURER OF SAINT THOMAS’S HOSPITAL, AND BENJAMIN HARRISON, Esq. TREASURER OP GUY’S HOSPITAL. GENTLEMEN, The Public and the Profession need not to be informed of the benefits flowing to the Community from the noble institutions over which you preside. But those only are fully competent to appreciate your merits, who are so connected with the Hospitals as to have witnessed your constant solicitude, that order, neatness andDEDICATION. VI comfort should every where prevail, and that all the provisions which humanity can suggest, should be made for the accommodation of those whom sickness or accident may consign to your protection. But your benevolence aspires to a wider range: the good which you are appointed to administer, has not been cir- cumscribed within the Walls of your Hos- pitals : for under your auspices. Theatres have been erected. Museums have been founded, and Lectures have been established, which comprehend the whole circle of Medical Science. That you may long continue to watch over these excellent institutions, which you have governed with so much judgment and humanity, is the sincere and ardent wish of, Gentlemen, Your Friends and obedient Servants, ASTLEY COOPEK, ' BENJAMIN TRAVERS. London, Jan. 1, 1818.PREFACE.1 IfPREFACE. The publication of a Work, upon the plan of that which is now submitted to the Public, has been for many years the intention of the Authors, and was only postponed until the ju- nior should have succeeded to the situation of Surgeon to St. Thomases or Guy's Hospital. It would 'Impossible for any person to witness the abundant opportunities afforded by these munificent establishments, (which to- gether accommodate more than eight hundred patients, besides numerous out-patients,) with- out participating in the anxious wish of the Authors, that they should be adequately im- proved. The variety which of necessity occurs in the practice of the Surgeons—the facility afforded to them in their respective plans of treatment—the opportunities of improving the practice of 8PREFACE. X Medical Surgery—of observing the results, ge- neral and comparative, of Operations of every description—and especially of prosecuting in- quiries into Morbid Anatomy, by prompt ex- amination of the dead body, and of parts re- moved by operation—are advantages which while they afford ample compensation for the labours of clinical research, would allow no pretext for indifference in those, who, conscious of their value, were not influenced by an ardent desire to improve and impart them. It is from such impressions that the present undertaking has originated. Numerous as is the class of students aUeiading the Hospitals of the metropolis, and zealously as they are in general disposed to acquire knowledge in their profession, it falls to the lot of few to reside long at these schools of practice ; and it is there- fore especially desirable, that their attention during that period should be directed to the objects which are to them of greatest impor- tance, and their judgments assisted in form- ing conclusions from the facts which fall under their daily observation. It is surely not less desirable when they are settled at .a distance from the seats of education, and only the sphere of private practice, limited even in its greatestXI PREFACE. extent, remains open to them; that the suspen- sion of professional intercourse should not chill and subdue the natural ardour of their minds; that they should be enabled to keep pace with the never-ceasing progress of observation, and not forfeit their interest in the pursuit of the noblest of all practical sciences. It is from no presumptuous feeling that the Authors of this Work entertain a hope, that the publication of Practical Essays, conveying the best opinions they are able to form, may, in time, produce a beneficial influence upon the practice of their art, by exposing_popular errors, and decidin^,so««^'f points still involved Tn doubt and obscurity. Neither the transactions of societies, nor the periodical journals, can be expected to afford space for the details of Hospital prac- tice ; seldom the narration of occurrences in one branch of the profession is interesting to more than one class of reriders, and especi- ally, such a narration as includes more of the common than the rare ; for it is neither in the contemplation nor desire of the Editors to pro- mulgate marvellous cases. The singularity of a case may be a good reason for its publication, 7Xll PREFACE. but its importance is a better; and, in general, the greater its singularity, the less its import- ance*. They are, therefore, disposed to think that occurrences, which by reason of their fre- quency attract less notice than they deserve, may yet be found to contain important matter for consideration. How much additional value the relation of an ordinary case acquires when supported and illustrated by others nearly resembling it, is too obvious to require exemplification. It is only in the assemblage and multiplication of facts that their proper bearing can be seen, and their real value ascertained; or that they can be ad- mitted to form a safe groundwork for the super- structure of theory. In the present undertaking, it is perhaps needless to say, that no attempt will be made improperly to bias the public judgment. The cases of failure will be as fully detailed as those of which the issue is fortunate—the errors will be as faithfully exposed as the merits of prac- tice, and the progress of truth shall not be re- tarded by the disingenuous concealment of er- * The case of Ligature of the Aorta is an obvious excep- tion to this remark.Xlll PREFACE. ror. In pursuit of this main object, it is the determination of the Writers to avoid all invi- tation to controversial discussion; and while they endeavour “ studiis et rebus honestis'" to deserve the goodwill of their professional brethren, they will rather submit to be the sub- jects than the authors of critical animadversion. For the literary composition of the Work, its nature and their avocations will, they trust, render apology unnecessary—the value of the matter will be their more particular concern. The delineation of morbid parts will be given in the form of slight engraving, in the hope of ren- dering the Work less exptrrrsive and more ex- tensively iiacffll. The motive which has induced the Authors to execute this Work conjointly, is, the oppor- tunity which it furnished of giving to the public the more extended experience, derived from the practice of the two Hospitals; and they hope soon to be enabled to publish a second Part, but the period of publication must for the present be left undetermined.TABLE OF CONTENTS. — PAGE On Dislocations. By Mr. Astley_CoopcT. 1 On Iritis. By Mr^ Travers C5 Case of liigature on the Aorta. By Mr. Astley Cooper 113 On Phymosis and Paraphymosis. By Mr. Travers 14.5\ On Exostosis. By Mr. Astley Cooper 169 On Wounds and Ligatures of Veins. By Mr. Travers SSrON DISLOCATIONS, BY Mb. ASTLEY cooper. A DISLOCATION is a displacement of the Definition, articulatory portion of the bone, from the sur- face 0^ which it was naturally received. Of the various accidents which happen to the body, there are few which require more assistance, prompt assistance, or upon whieh the reputation of the surgeon is more at stake, than cases of Luxation, for if mu^i lost before the attempt ^ rcdnction, there is great addi- tional dilliculty in accomplishing it, and it is often entirely impracticable. If it remains un- known, and consequently unreduced, the pa- tient becomes a living memorial of the surgeon’s ignorance or inattention.-—“ What is the matter with me?” said a patient who came to my house, placing himself before me, and directing my attention to his shoulder. “ Why, Sir, your arm is dislocated.”—Do you say so ? Mr. told me it was not out.” How long has it been dislocated ?”—“ Many weeks,” he replied. “ Oh then, you had better not have any attempt at reduction made.” He said, “ Well, I will take care that Mr. has no more bones to set, for I will expose his igno- BON DISLOCATIONS. 2 Knowledge of anatomy necessary. ranee in that part of, the country in which I live.”—He was a man of malevolent disposition, and did as he had promised, to the great injury of the surgeon, who was frequently reminded of his want of skill, by meeting his former patient in his rounds, and what was worse, by hearing frequently, that the following observa- tion was made, —“ Mr. is a good apothe- cary, but he knows nothing of surgery.” In a dislocation of the Os Femoris, which still remains unreduced, a consultation was held upon the nature of the injury, and after a long consideration, this report was made by one of the surgeons,—“ Well, Sir, thank God, we are all agreed, that there is no dislocation.” A considerable share of anatomical knowledge is required to detect the nature of these acci- dents, as well as to suggest the best means of reduction ; and it is much to be lamented, that our students neglect to inform themselves suffi- ciently of the structure of the joints. They often dissect the muscles of a limb with great neatness and minuteness, and then throw it away, without any examination of the liga- ments, a knowledge of which, in a surgical point of view, is of infinitely greater impor- tance ; and from hence arise the errors of which they are guilt;^, wffien they embark in the prac- tice of their profession ; for the injuries of the hip, elbow, and shoulder, are scarcely to be de- tected, but by those who possess accurate ana- tomical information. Even our hospital sur- geons who have neglected their anatomy, mis- take these accidents, for I have known tlie pul-ON DISLOCATIONS. S n 2 Jies applied to an hospital patient, in a case of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which had been mistaken for a dislocation, and the patient cruelly exposed through the surgeon’s ignorance, to a violent and protracted exten- sion. It is therefore proper, that the form of the ends of the bones, their mode of articulation, the ligaments by which they are connected, and the direction in which the larger muscles act, - should be well understood. The immediate effect of dislocation is to alter Symptoms, the form of the joint, often to produce a change in the length of the limb, and to occasion the almost entire loss of motion of the part, after the muscles have had time to contract. In the first moments of the accident, considerable mo- tion remains; for I have seen_Jk-J3oa3a-^brc^^ . into Guy’s HospitaU-JvJrcr^ew minutes before had the thigii^bon^ dislocated into the foramen ovale, and I was surprised to find, in a case otherwise so well marked, that a great mobility of the bone still existed at the^ dislocated part; but in less than three hours, it became firmly fixed in its new situation, by the contraction of the muscles. Blood is often effused in considerable quantity around the joint, and prevents an easy detection of the accident, the swelling being sometimes so considerable as to conceal entirely the ends of the bones. A severe but obtuse pain arises from the pres- sure of the head of the bone upon the muscles, and sometimes the pain is more acute from its pressure upon a large nerve. From this causeON DISLOCATIONS. 4 Crepitus. Inflamma- tion. a paralysis is produced of the parts below: as is sometimes seen in dislocations of the shoulder. At other times the bone presses upon important parts so as to produce effects dangerous to life. I have for many years mentioned in my Lec- tures a case, of which Mr. Davie of Bungay was so kind as to send me an account, of a dislocated clavicle, which pressed upon the oesophagus so as to endanger life, and" of which I shall give a more detailed history hereafter. The head of the bone can generally be felt in its new situation, excepting in some of the dislo- cations of the hip, and its rotation becomes often the best criterion of the accident. The natural prominences of the bone near the joint, either disappear or become less conspicuous, as the tro- chanter ni the hip-joint. Sometimes the reverse occurs; for, in dislocations of the elbow, the olecranon projects more than usual. The more remote effects of the accident are, first, that there is often a sensation of crepitus produced by the effusion of adhesive matter (albumen) into the joint and bursae, by which the synovia becomes inspissated, and crackles under motion, a circumstance which every prac- titioner should be aware of, as he may be in- duced to suspect the existence of fracture where none has occurred. Tlie degree of inflammation produced is how- ever generally only slight, but sometimes, after the reduction of dislocations suppuration ensues, and the patient dies. Mr. Howden, formerly one of our most intelligent apprentices at Guy’s Hos- pital, and afterwards surgeon in the army, related t5 ON DISLOCATIONS. the following case. “ A man had his thigh dis- located upwards and backwards on the ilium, which was soon after reduced; the next day, a considerable swelling was observed on the part, which continued to increase, accompanied with rigors, and in four days the patient died. On dissection, the capsular ligaments and liga- mentum teres were found entirely torn away, and a considerable quantity of pus extravasated in the surrounding parts.”—See Minutes of the Physical Society, Guy’s Hospital, Nov. 12, 1791. I attended the master of a ship, who had dislo- cated his thigh upwards; an extension was made to all appearance successfully, but in a few days a large abscess formed on the thigh, which destroyed the man. Generally, how- ever, the inflammation is but slight which fol- lows these accident%^-^:tT6^imb, if unreduced, forms foi* itself a new bed, and some degree of motion is gradually recovered, although from neglected dislocations in the lower extremity, the patient is ever after lame, and in the upper, the motion and power of the limb are very much diminished. On examination of the bodies of those who Dissection die from dislocations which arise from violence, the head of the bone is found completely re- moved from its socket. The ligament is torn to a great extent transversely; the particular ligaments of joints, as the ligamentum teres of the hip is torn through ; but the tendon of the biceps in dislocations of the os humeri remains unbroken as far as I have had an opportunity of judging by dissection, although 1 should be6 ON DISLOCATIONS. Dissection of old dis- locations. sorry to be understood to say, that it is univer- sally the case. The tendons which cover the ligaments are also torn, as the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, in the dislocation in the axilla, and ac- cording to the extent of this laceration, is the facility with which the bone afterwards slips from its socket. Some of the muscles are very much shortened, some put upon the stretch, as the psoas and iliacus internus in dislocations of the hip downwards, a considerable laceration of muscles now and then occurs, of the pectineus and adductor brevis, in the dislocation of the thigh downwards, and lastly, a quantity of blood is extravasated in the cellujar membrane. When a joint has been long dislocated, the head of the bone is found to have become em-, bedded in the muscles j the articular cartilage remains, if it rests upon the muscles •, but if it lies upon a bone, the articular cartilaginous surface becomes absorbed, and even a portion of the head of the bone is thus removed ; the ori- ginal socket becomes filled with a ligamentous secretion ; its size is lessened, and form chang- ed, by a deposit of ossific matter influenced by the pressure of the head of the bone in its new situation. When the head of the dis- located bone rests on a thick bed of muscles, in the cellular membrane, a new ligament is formed around it, which does not adhere to its carti- laginous surface, and which, in dislocations of the hip, contains the broken ligamentuin teres. (See plate of Dislocation in the Ischiatic Notch.) But if the head be placed on the sur-ON DISLOCATIONS. 7 face of a bone or upon a thin muscle over it, that muscle becomes absorbed, and the bone under- goes a remarkable change ; if the dislocation be not reduced, both the ball and the bone which receives it are changed in their form. The pressure of the ball, as from pressure in other cases, produces absorption of the perios- teum and of the bone, and a smooth hollow surface is formed ; and the ball becomes altered in its shape, to adapt it to its new surface ; but whilst this absorption proceeds, upon the part on which the head of the bone rests, an Qssific deposit takes place around from the peri- osteum, which is irritated but not absorbed. This bony matter is deposited between the pe- riosteum and the original bone, by which a deep cup is formed to receive the head of the bone’; and perhaps no cases cIal3^T^e^dduced', which more strongly 'Hrark the powers of nature in changing the form of parts to accommodate them to new circumstances, than these ef- fects of dislocatibn. (See the accompanying plates.) But in those instances in which a thick bed of muscles intervenes between the head of the bone and that on which it rests, no change in either the recipient or dislocated bone is. pro- duced, as may be seen in dislocation of the thigh in the ischiatic notch. (See plate.) The new cup which is thus formed, some- times so completely surrounds the neck of the bone, as to prevent its being removed from it 'without fracture (see plate) ; and tlie socketON DISLOCATIONS. 8 Disloca- tions from relaxation. is smoothed upon its inner surface, to leave no projecting parts which can interrupt the motion of the bone in its new situation. The muscles losing their action become con- tracted and greatly diminished in their size. But although dislocations happening from vio- lence are thus accompanied by the laceration of the ligament of the joint, yet they can occur from relaxation of the ligaments only. A girl came to my house, who had the power of throwing her patella off the surfaces of the condyles of the os femoris. Her knees were bent considerably inwards, and when the rectus muscle acted upon the patella, it was drawn from the thigh-bone into a line with the tuber- cle of the tibia, and laid nearly flat upon the side of the external condyle of the femur. She came from the south of Europe, and said she had been brought up as a dancing girl from her earliest years, as we see children dancing upon elevated platforms in the streets of London; and she imputed to these continued exertions the weakness under which she laboured. A relaxed state of ligaments is also produced by an accumulation of synovia in joints. Mr. Shillito, surgeon in the city, asked me to see the servant of a gentleman in my neighbourhood, who had a great enlargement of the knee-joint from an unnatural and abundant secretion of synovia j and when this was absorbed, the liga- ments remained so much relaxed, that the e^ forts of the muscles in walking dislocated the pa- tella. I ordered her into the hospital that theON DISLOCATIONS. 9 students might observe this case, of which the following is the account. CASE. Ann Parish was admitted into Guy’s Hospital in the autumn of 1810, for a dislocation of the left patella from relaxation of the ligaments. She had for four years previously a large accu- mulation of synovia in that knee, suffering some pain and much inconvenience in walking. Blis- ters had been applied without much effect, and other means tried about four months before her admission. When the knee had acquired a consi- derable size, the swelling spontaneously subsided, and she then first discovered that the patella be- came dislocated when she extended tlie limb. She suffered some pain whenever-'tMs'TTappened, and she lost the power of the limb in walking so as to fall when the patella slipped from its place, which it did whenever she attempted to walk with- out a bandage. The patella was placed upon the external condyle of the os femoris, when thrown from its natural situation, and did not return to it without considerable pressure of the hand. In other respects her health was good. Straps of adhesive plaster were ordered to be applied, and a roller to be worn, which succeeded in pre- venting the dislocation so long as they were used, but the bone again slipped from its place when they were removed. A knee cap made to lace over the joint was ordered for her. If muscles are kept extended for a length of paralysis.ON DISLOCATIONS. time, and their tone becomes destroyed, or if from a paralytic affection, they lose their action, a bone may be dislocated easily, and as easily replaced. CASE. Mr. , a gentleman now residing in the city, whilst in the East. Indies, as a junior officer on board his ship, was placed under the orders of one of the mates when the captain was on shorcr—for some trifling offence this young gentleman was punished in the following manner : His foot was placed upon a small pro- jection on the deck, and his arm was lashed tightly towards the yard of the ship, and thus kept extended for an hour. When he returned to England, he had the power of readily throw- ing that arm from its socket, merely by rais- ing it towards his head ; but a very slight ex- tension reduced it: the muscles were wasted also, as in a case of paralysis. A prosecution was commenced for this act of tyranny, and I was subpoenaed to give evidence; but this petty tyrant'fchose to pay the forfeit for his mis- conduct prior to the commencement of the trial. I was desired also to see a young gentleman who had one of those paralytic affections in his right side, which so frequently arises during den- tition. The muscles of the shoulder w^ere wasted, and he had the power of throwing his os humeri over the posterior edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, from whence it became easily re-ON DISLOCATIONS. 11 Juced. In these cases no laceration of the liga- inentscan have occurred, and they shew the in- fluence of the musqles in preventing dislocation from violence, and in impeding its reduction. Dislocations frequently occur from ulcera- tion, by which the liganmnt^re detached, and the bones becom^d^r|^^et^ frequently see this state of Da^'ln the li^Jp^t, tlie liga- ments ulcerate( i^e ^dge'of tho^aWtabulura absorbed, and ^i^hes^d alter- ed, both in its n^niti^^ and figui;(?, ^escaping from the acetabVi^Tq^^oijt^rit^^ there forming for itself Hew socket. have in the Anatomical Thomas’s Hospital a preparati^'-^fjhe'Knee dislocated by ulceration, anchylosed at right angles with the femur, and turned directly forwards. Dislocations are often^companied with frac- ture. At the ancle-joint it rarely happens that dislocation occurs without a fracture of the fibula, and at the hip-joint the acetabulum is every now and then broken, of whiph an exam- ple will be seen in the following CASE. Thomas Steers was admitted into Guy’s Hos- pital on the 28th of October, 1805, with a dis- location of the os femoris into the ischiatic notch. The dislocation .was reduced by a very slight extension compared with that which is com- monly required. This was imputed to his hav- ing vomited at the time of his admission, and to the depression of strength which a state of Dislocation from ulce- ration. Fracture and disloca- tion.12 ON DISLOCATIONS. nausea is known to produce. But he soon com- plained of severe pain extending over his ab- | domen, and he died the day following his ad- ! mission. Upon inspecting his body, the jeju- num was found ruptured ; and upon examina- | tion of the hip-joint, a portion of the edge of the acetabulum was broken off. Dislocations of the os humeri are also some- times accompanied with fracture of the head of that bone of which we have a specimen in the Museum at Saint Thomas’s Hospital. The coronoid process is sometimes broken in dislocations of the ulna, producing a spe- cies of luxation, which does not admit of the bone being afterwards preserved in its natu- ral situation. What have been called disloca- tions of the spine are really fractures of the vertebras, and not true dislocations, if we except the first and second vertebrae of the neck. Simple^ or Dislocations are either simple or compound; compound, simple dislocation is rarely dangerous, and j i those are considered as simple in which the skin ’ | remains unbroken, although the accident may ‘ be otherwise complicated; but these luxations, without wounds, may sometimes become com- pound, unless great care be takeh to prevent the pressure of the bone, occasioning inflam- mation and ulceration. Compound. Compound dislocations are attended with great danger, and on the following account. 1 When a joint is opened, inflammation of the : r lacerated ligaments and synovial membrane speedily succeeds, in a few hours suppuration13 ON DISLOCATIONS. begins, and granulations arise from the surface of the synovial membrane. But the same pro- cess does not immediately take place upon the extremities of the bone, because it is covered by the articular cartilage. This cartilage, before the cavity fills with granulations, becomes ab- sorbed, by an ulcerative process instituted on the end of the bones. Numerous abscesses are generally formed, in different parts of the joint, and at length granulations spring from the ex- tremities of the bone deprived of their carti- lages, and fill up the cavity; generally these granulations become ossified, and anchylosis succeeds; but sometimes they remain of a softer texture, and some degree of motion in the joint is gradually regained. This process of filling up joints, requires great general, as well as local efforts; high con- stitutional irritation is produced, and if the constitution be weak, the patient, to preserve his life, is sometimes obliged to submit to the operation of amputation. Some joints dislocate easily, and frequently ; others very rarely. Tliose which have naturally extensive motions are easily dislocated, and hence the luxation of the os humeri occurs much more frequently than any other, and when it has been once dislocated, it happens again easily in the natural upward motion of the joint. It is wisely ordained that when a part has ex- tensive motion, and great strength is required, it is effected by making numerous joints instead of one. Thus, in the spine in which great strength is necessary to protect the spinal mar- Some joints dislocated easily.14 ON DISLOCATIONS. Partial. row, numerous joints are formed, and tlie mo- tion between any two bones is so small, that dislocations, except between the 1st and 2d ver- tebrae, hardly ever occur, although the bones are often displaced by fracture. The carpus and the tarsus are constituted in the same manner, they allow of considerable motion, yet maintain great strength of union. For if the motion between two bones as in the spine, be multiplied by 24, and then at the car- pus by 7, it will be seen tliat great latitude of motion is given, and the strength of the part preserved, whilst, if the spine had been formed of a single joint, dislocations might have easily happened, and death from this cause must have been a very frequent occurrence. Bones are not always thrown entirely from the articulatory surface, on which they rested, so that dislocations may be partial only. This circumstance sometimes occurs at the ancle- joint. An ancle was dissected at Guy’s, and given to the Collection of Saint Thomas’s, which was partially dislocated j the end of the tibia rested still in part upon the astragalus, but a larger portion of its surface was seated on the os naviculare, and the tibia altered by this change of place had formed two new articula- tory surfaces, with their faces turned in oppo- site directions towards the two bones. The dislocation had not been reduced. Tlie knee is I believe rarely dislocated in any other way. The os humeri sometimes rests upon the edge of the glenoid cavity, and readily returns into8 1 ON DISLOCATIONS. 15 its socket, and the elbow-joint is dislocated par- tially, both as regards the ulna and the radius. The lower jaw is sometimes partially dislo- cated in a different manner; one of the joints being luxated, and the other remaining in its place. Dislocations are generally occasioned by vio- Cause, lence, and the force is applied, whilst the bone dislocated is forming an angle with its socket; but it is necessary that the muscles should be in a great degree unprepared for resistance, or the greatest force will hardly produce disloca- tions, but when they are unprepared, very slight accidents will often produce the effect. A fall in walking will sometimes di.slocate the hip- joint, when tlie muscles have been prepared for a different exertion. , ' - AVhile dwelling on thla subject in my Lec- tures, I have usually quoted the execution of Damien, as illustrative of this opinion. “ Damien was executed for the attempt to murder Lewis the XVth. Four young horses were fixed to his legs and arms, and were forced to make repeated efforts to tear his limbs from his body, but could not effect this intention ; and after fifty minutes the executioners were obliged to cut the muscles and ligaments to effect his dismemberment.’’ The following is the French account of this execution : “ II arriva a la place de Greve a troi.s heures et un quart, regardant d’un ceil sec et ferme le lieu, et les instrumens de son supplice. On lui brula d’abord la main droite; ensuite on let 16 ON DISLOCATIONS. Disloca- tions rare in the younj. tenailla, et on versa sur ses plaies de Phuile, du plonib fondu, et de la poix-resine. On pro- ceda ensuite a Pecartellement. Les quatre che- vaux firent pendant cinquante minutes des ef- forts inutiles pour demembrer ce monstre. Au bout de ce terns la, Damien etant encore plein de la vie, les bourreaux lui couperent avec des bistouris, les chairs et les jointures nerveuses des cuisses, et des bras ; ce qu’on avoit ete oblige de faire en 1610 pour Ravaillac. II re- spiroit encore apres que les cuisses furent cou- pees, et il ne rendit fame que pendant qu*on lui coupoit les bras. Son supplice depuis Pin- Stant qu’il fut mis sur Pechafaud, jusqu’ au moment de sa mort, dura pres d’une heure et demie. II conserva toute sa connoissance, et releva sa tete sept ou huit fois, pour regarder les chevaux, et sea membres tenailles et brules. Au milieu des tourmens les plus affreux de la question il avoit laisse echapper des plaisante- ries.”—Dictionnaire Historique. Young persons are very rarely the subjects of dislocations. Their bones break, or their epiphyses give way rather than the parts dis- place. I read of dislocations of the hip in children, but their history is that of diseases of the hip-joint, and the dislocation arises from ulceration. A child was brought to me from one of the counties north of London, who had repeated extensions made by one of those people called hone setters (but who ought rather to be called dislocators), for a supposed dislocation of the hip-joint. Upon examination, I found the case that disease of the hip, which is so common 3 J i i17 ON DISLOCATIONS. in children, and for this only, was a child wan- tonly exposed to a most painful extension. That in this enlightened country, men without educa- tion should be with impunity suffered to de- grade a most useful profession, and put to the tor- ture those who have the folly to apply to them, is a disgrace to our laws, and calls loudly for prevention. Dislocations of the elbow-joint in children are said to be of frequent occurrence. Surgeons say, “ I have a child under my care with luxa- tion of its elbow, and I can easily return the bone into its place, but it directly dislocates again.” Such a case is an oblique fracture of the condyles of the os humeri, which produces the appearance of dislocation, by allowing the radius and ulna, or the ulna alone, to be drawn back with the fractured condyle, so as to pro- duce a considerable projection at the posterior part of the joint. The impediments to the reduction of disloca- Reduction* tion are often imputed to causes which do not exist. In some joints the form of the bone gives rise to difficulty, but in a much less degree than is generally supposed. When the socket is surrounded by a lip of bone, as in the hip-joint, the head of the bone in its reduction stops at this projection, and it requires to be lift- ed over it: and when the head ©f a bone is much larger than its cervix, a difficulty arises from Difficulty this cause, as for example, in the dislocation of cON DISLOCATIONS. 18 The liga- ments. Tendons, Peculiar lig^mentSc the head of the radius, but still these causes are slight, in comparison with others which we have to detail. The capsular ligaments are supposed to resist reduction. But those who are of that opinion, must forget their inelastic structure, and cannot have had opportunities of witnessing by dissec- tion the extensive laceration which they sustain in dislocations from violence; the idea of the neck of the bone being girt or confined by the ligament is quite untrue. The capsular liga- ments in truth possess but little strength either to prevent dislocation, or to resist the means of re- duction ; if the tendons with which thev are t/ covered, and the peculiar ligaments of the joints did not exist, dislocation must be of very fre- quent occurrence. The joint of the slioulder, and that of the knee and elbow are strongly protected by ten- dons; the shoulder, by the tendons of the spinati, subscapularis and teres minor muscles; the elbow by the triceps and brachialis ; the knee by the tendinous expansion of the vasti; but still it is an error to suppose that some ligaments do not powerfully resist dislocations; but these are the peculiar—not the capsular ligaments. The wrist and the elbow have their peculiar ligaments, to give strength to the structure of these joints. The shoulder, instead of a pecu- liar ligament, has the tendon of the biceps re- ceived into it to render dislocation forwards more difficult; the hip-joint possesses its ligamentum teres, to prevent a ready dislocation downwards; the knee has its lateral and crucial ligaments;ON DISLOCATIONS. 19 and the ancle is provided with ligaments of the same kind, and of very extraordinary strength, to prevent a dislocation, exposed as it is to the most severe injuries—the bones of this joint often rather break than their ligaments give way—however, in many of the joints, as these ligaments are torn, they afford no resistance to the reduction of dislocation, as in the hip, elbow and wrist; but if one of them remains, it produces some difficulty in the re- duction, as 1 have seen in the knee-joint. The difficulty in reducing dislocation princi- pally arises from the resistance which the muscles give by their contraction, and which is proportioned to the length of time whichlias elapsed from the injury ; therefore it is desira- ble that the attempt at reduction should not be long delayed. The common actions of the muscles are vo- luntary or involuntary, but they have a power of contraction independent of either state. A muscle soon fatigues when excited toe action by volition, and it requires rest. The arm can only be extended for a few minutes at right angles with the body, before it feels a fatigue, which requires suspension of ac- tion. The heart also has its contraction and relaxation. But when a muscle is divided, its parts con- tract, or when the antagonist muscle is cut, the undivided muscle draws the parts into which it is inserted into a fixed situation. Thus, if the biceps muscle be divided, the ■ c 2 Muscles.ON DISLOCATIONS. 20 triceps keeps the arm constantly extended; if the muscles on one side of the face are para- lytic, the opposing muscles draw the face to their side. This contraction is not succeeded by fatigue or relaxation, but will continue an indefinite time, even until the structure of the muscle becomes changed j and its contraction increases daily in its power of resistance from the first occurrence of the accident. Thus it is that when a bone is dislocated, the muscles draw it as far from the joint as the surrounding parts will allow, and there by their contraction they fix it. It is this resistance from muscles, ' aided by their voluntary contraction, which it is the business of the surgeon to counteract. If an extension be made almost immediately after a dislocation has happened, the resistance pro- duced by the muscles is easily overcome; but if the operation is protracted for a few days only, the utmost difficulty occurs in effect- ing it. That the muscles are the chief cause of re- sistance is strongly eyinced, by those cases in which the dislocation is accompanied by injury to any vital organ ; for it is then found, that a very slight force is sufficient to return the bone to its situation. Thus in the man who had an injury to his jejunum and a dislocation of the hip, in the case already mentioned, the bone was restored to its place most easily. With respect to the means to be employed, for reducing dislocations, it is now generally agreed amongst the most eminent surgeons,21 ON DISLOCATIONS. Force gra- dual. culties. that force should be only gradually applied. Violence is as likely to tear sound parts as to reduce those which are luxated j it calls up all the powers of resistance to oppose the efforts making by the surgeon. But it is his duty to produce gradually that state of fatigue and re- laxation which is sure to follow continued ex- tension, and not to attempt at once to over- power the action of the muscles. When a dislocation has long happened, diffi- other dim culties arise from three other circumstances: the extremity of the bone contracts adhesion to the surrounding parts, so that even when in dis- section the muscles are removed, the bone can- not be reduced. In this state I found the head of a radius, which had been long dislocated upon the external condyle of the os humeri, and which is preserved in the Collection at Saint Thomas’s Hospital, and in a similar state I have seen the os humeri when dislocated. The socket is also sometimes filled with adhesive matter, that if the bone was reduced it could not remain in its ori- ginal situation. Lastly, a new bony socket is sometimes formed in which the head oCthe bone is so completely confined, that nothing but its fracture could allow it to escape from its new situation. (See Plate 2.) The means employed for the reduction of Means of dislocations are either constitutional or me- chanical ; it is generally wrong to employ force only, as it becomes necessary to use it in such a degree as to occasion violence and injury, and it will in the sequel be shewn that the most powerful mechanical means fail when unaided reduction.22 ON DISLOCATIONS. Constitu- tioaal. Nausea. by constitutional. The power of the muscles in the first instance, is to be duly appreciated, which forms the principal cause of resistance. The means to be employed for the purpose are, to produce a tendency to syncope and sometimes fainting itself by the abstraction of a quantity of blood, and by placing the pa- tient in a warm bath to occasion a similar feel- ing. If the blood be removed quickly, by a large orifice, it is known that fainting is more readily produced, and a hot-bath from 100° to 110° will often not produce syncope, unless blood has been previously drawn. But of late years I have practised another mode of lowering the action of the muscles, by exhibiting nauseating doses of tartarized anti- mony. This given in repeated doses, produces sickness but not vomiting ; emetics have been recommended, and there is no doubt but the state of nausea which they produce is useful; but the vomiting is in itself of no use, for as soon as the nauseating effect is produced, the muscles lose their tone, and dislocations can be reduced, with comparatively less effort,- and at a more distant time from the accident, than can be effected in any other way. Two cases are related in the following pages. One from Mr. Norwood, surgeon, Hertford, the other from Mr. Thomas, apothecary to Saint Luke^s Hospital, in which, by the combination of bleed- ing, warm batli, and nauseating doses of tartariz- ed antimony, dislocations were reduced at a pe- riod from the accident, greater than I have ever known in any other example. One of theseON DISLOCATIONS. cases occurred at Guy’s and the other at Saint Thomas’s Hospital, at the time these gentle- men were officiating as dressers. (See cases of dislocation on the ilium.) The effect of opium I have never tried, but opinm. it would probably be useful from its power of di- minishing the nervous influence. The reduction of the bone is to be attempted Mechanical after lessening the powers of the muscles, by making an extension of the limb, by fixing one bone, and drawing the other towards its socket. One great cause of failure, in the attempt to re- duce dislocations, arises from insufficient atten- tion to fixing that bone in which the socket is placed. As for example, in attempting to re- duce a dislocation of the shoulder, if the sca- pula be not fixed, or one person pulls at the sca- pula and two at the arm, the scapula is neces- sarily drawn with the os humeri, and the exten- sion is very imperfectly made; the one bone therefore must be as firmly fixed as the other is extended. The force may be applied either by the compound exertion of assistants or by a compound pulley j but the object is to extend the muscles by gradual, regular, and continued force; the pulley in cases of difficulty should always be resorted to ; its force may be directed by the surgeon’s mind; but when assistants are employed, their exertions are sudden, violent, and often ill-directed, and the force is more likely to produce laceration of parts, than to restore the bone to its situation. Their efforts are also frequently uncombined, and their mus-24 ON DISLOCATIONS. cles necessarily fatigue, as well as those of the patient whose resistance they are employed to overcome. In dislocation of the hip-joint, pullies should always be employed ; and in those dislocations of the shoulder which have remained long un- reduced, they should also be resorted to. I do not mean to doubt of the possibility of re- ducing dislocation of the hip by the aid of men, but to point out the inferiority of this mode to the pullies. Most writers on surgery have hint- ed at the use of pullies, but they have not duly appreciated them : my good master, Mr. Cline, whose professional judgment no man can deny, always strongly recommended them. During the attempt to reduce luxations, the surgeon should endeavour to obtain a relaxation of the stronger muscles. The limb should therefore be kept in a position between flexion and extension, as far as it can be obtained. Who has not seen in the attempt to reduce a com- pound fracture in the extended position of a limb, the bone, which could not be brought in apposition under the m6st violent efforts, quickly replaced by an intelligent surgeon, who imme- diately directed the limb to be bent, and the muscles to be placed in a comparative state of relaxation ? A difference of opinion prevails, whether it is best to apply the extension on the dislocated bone or on the limb below. M. Boyer, who has long taken the lead in surgery in Paris, prefers the latter mode. As far as I have had an oppor- tunity of observing, it is generally best to apply25 ON DISLOCATIONS. the extension to the bone which is dislocated. There are exceptions to this however, in the dis- location of the shoulder, which I generally re- duce by placing the heel in the axilla, and by drawing the arm at tbe wrist in a line with the side ot‘ the body, as when the arm is placed close to the side, the pectoral muscle and the latissi- mus dorsi are brought into a state of relaxation; and they form a powerful opposition when the arm is carried far from the side. Great advantage is derived in the reduction of dislocations from attending to the patient’s mind; the muscles opposing the efforts of the surgeon, by acting in obedience to the will, may have that action suspended by directing the mind to other muscles. Several years ago, a surgeon in Blackfriars Road, asked me to see a patient of his with a dislocated shoulder, which had resisted the various attempts he had made at reduction. 1 found the patient in bed with his right arm dislocated; I sat down on the bed by his side, placed my heel in the axilla, and drew the arm at the wrist; the dislocated bone remained unmoved. I said, Rise from your bed. Sir; he made an effort to do so, whilst I continued my extension, and the bone snapped into its socket; for a similar reason, a slight ef- fort, when the muscles are unprepared, will succeed in reduction of dislocation, after violent measures have failed. When a bone has been reduced by the pullies, it will not remain in its situation without the aid of bandages, which are required to sup- port it till muscular action returns. The hip. Influence of the mind. Second dis- location.26 ON DISLOCATIONS. however, is rarely dislocated a second time, but the shoulder and the lower jaw very frequently slip again from their sockets, owing to the little depth of the socket in these joints, and there- fore they require bandages for some time subse- quent to reduction. * On the Dislocations of the Hip-Joint. The acetabulum of the hip-joint is deepened by a cartilaginous edge, which surrounds its brim, and it is made a complete cup in the re- cent subject by another cartilage which fills up a depression in the bone, in the inferior and ante- rior part of tlie cavity. The ligaments are two: the capsular arises from the edge of the acetabulum, and passing over the head and neck of the bone is inserted into the cervix at the rootof the trochanter major; it is thick at its fore part, and thin posteriorly. Strong portions of ligament are extended over it, from the ilium near its anterior and inferior spinous process. The figamentum teres, which is contained within the capsular ligament, proceeds from a depression in the lower and inner part of the acetabulum to be fixed in a hollow upon the inner side of the head of the thigh-bone. The synovial membrane lines the capsular li- gament, and is reflected upon the neck of the thigh-bone, and on the ligamentum teres. The round ligament has a tendency to prevent dis- locations in all directions, but particularly the dislocation downwards. The thigh-bone I have seen dislocated in27 ON DISLOCATIONS. four directions only. First, upwards or upon the dorsum of the ilium. Secondly, downwards, or into the foramen ovale. Thirdly, backwards, and upwards, or into the ischiatic notch : and. Fourthly, forwards and upwards, or upon the . body of the pubis. No dislocation downwards and backwards has occurred at St. Thomas’s or Guy’s Hospital within the last thirty years, or in my private practice; and I doubt its existence, although 1 would not deny the possibility of its occurrence, being disposed to believe some mistake has arisen upon this subject. Of the Dislocation uprvards, or on the Dorsum llii. This dislocation is the most frequent of those W’hich happen to the hip-joint, and the follow- ing are the signs by which its existence is known. The limb on the dislocated side is from one Symptoms, inch and half to tw'o inches and half shorter than the other, as is well seen by comparing the mal- leoli interni, and by bending the foot at right angles with the leg. On the dislocated side the toe rests against the tarsus of the other foot. The knee and foot are turned inwards, and the knee is a little advanced upon the other. When the leg is attempted to be separated from the other it cannot be accomplished, for the limb is firmly fixed in its new situation, so far as regards its motion outwards ; but the thigh can be slight- ly bent across the other. If so much blood has not been effused, as to conceal the bones, theON DISLOCATIONS. head of the thigh-bone can be perceived during rotation of the knee inwards, moving upon the ■ dorsum of the ilium, and the trochanter major advances towards the spinous process of the ilium, so as to be felt much nearer to it than usual. The trochanter is less prominent than that on the opposite side, for the neck of the bone and the trochanter are resting in the line of the surface of the dorsum ilii: upon a comparison of the two hips, the roundness of the dislocated side has disappeared. A sur- geon then, called to a severe and recent in- jury of the hip-joint, looks for a difference in length, change of position inwards, dimi- nution of motion, and decreased projection of the trochanter. The accident with which the dislocation upwards is liable to be con- founded, is the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament. Yet the marks of distinction are generally suffi- ciently strong to prevent an error in a person commonly attentive. In a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, the knee and foot are gene- rally turned outwards : the trochanter is drawn backwards: the limb can be readily bent to- wards the abdomen, although with some pain t but above all, the limb which is shortened from one to two inches, by the contraction of the muscles, can be made of the length of the other by a slight extension, and when the extension is abandoned, the leg is again shortened. If when extended the limb is rotated, a crepitus can often be felt, which ceases when rotation • is performed under a shortened state of the29 ON DISLOCATIONS. limb. The fractured neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, rarely occurs but in advanced age, and it is the effect of the most trifling accidents, owing to the absorption which this part of the bone undergoes at ad- vanced periods of life. Fractures externally to the capsular ligament occur at any age, but generally in the middle periods of life ; and these are easily distinguished by the crepitus which attends them if the limb be rotated, and the trochanter compressed with the hand. Tlie position is the same as in fractures within the ligament. The proportion of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, which I have seen, is at least four cases to one of dislocation. (See the plate for the positions of the limb in dislocations.) Diseases of the hip-joint can scarcely be con- founded with dislocations from violence, but by those who are not anatomists, and are incapable of observation. The gradual growth of the symptoms, the pain in the knee, the apparent elongation at first, and real shortening after- wards, the capacity for motion, yet the pain given under extremes of rotation, as well as of flexion and extension, are marks of difference which would strike the most careless observer. In diseases of this kind, when they have existed a great length of time, ulceration of the liga- ments, acetabulum, and head of the bone, allow of such a change of situation of parts, as to give to the limb the position of dislocation j but the history of the case at once informs the medical attendant of the nature of the disease.so ON DISLOCATIONS. Muscles. Cause. Reduction. In the dislocation upwards, the pyriformis and the glutei muscles are all shortened, as are also the triceps and pectineus, the psoas magnus and iliacns internus, the rectus, the semitendinosus and semimembranosus, and one head of the biceps. The obturator externus is shortened, but the obturator internus, gemini and quad- ratus are put upon the stretch. The muscles which, more than others, resist the reduction, are the glutei and triceps. The cause of this dislocation is, that the pa- tient falls when the knee and foot are turned inwards, or he receives a blow whilst the limb is in that position, and the head of the bone is then dislocated upwards, and turned back- wards. In the reduction of this dislocation the follow- ing plan is to be adopted *. take from the patient from twelve to twenty ounces of blood, or even more, if he be a very strong man; and then place him in a warm-bath at the heat of 100®, and gradually increase it to 110°, until he feels faint. During the ti^nehe is in the warm-bath, give him a grain of tartarized antimony every ten minutes until he feels some nausea, then re- move him from the baths and put him in blan- kets, and place him between two strong posts, about ten feet from each other, in which two' staples are fixed; or rings may be screwed inta the floor, and the patient be placed upon it. Our usual method is to place him on a table covered with a thick blanket, upon his back; then a strong girt is passed between his pu- dendum and thigh, and this is fixed to one ofON DISLOCATIONS. the staples. (See Plate.) A wetted linen roller is to be tightly applied just above the knee, and upon this a leather strap is buckled, having two straps with rings at right angles with the circu- lar part. The knee is to be slightly bent, but not quite to a right angle, and brought across the other thigh a little above the knee. The pullies are fixed in the other staple, and in the strap above the knee. The patient being thus adjusted, the surgeon slightly draws the string of the pulley, and when he sees that every part of th^.bandage is upon the stretch, and the patient begins to complain, he waits a little to give the muscles time to fatigue ; he then draws again, and when the patient complains much, again rests, until the muscles yield. Thus he gradually proceeds until he finds the head of the bone descend. When it reaches the lip of the acetabulum, he gives the pulley to an assist- ant, and desires him to preserve the same state , of extension, and the surgeon then rotates the knee and foot gently outwards, but not doing it with a violence to excite opposition in the mus- cles, and in this act the bone slips into its place. In general it does not return with a snap into its socket when the pullies are em- ployed, because the muscles are so much re- laxed, that they have not sufficient tone re- maining to permit them to act with violence, and the surgeon only knows of the reduction by loosening the bandages. It often happens that the bandages get loose before the extension is completed, which should be guarded against as much as possible, by having them well securedS2 ON DISLOCATIONS. at first, but if they are obliged to be renewed, as little time as possible should elapse in their re-application, to prevent the muscles having time to recover their tone. It is sometimes necessary to lift the bone by placing the arm under it near the joint when there is difficulty in bringing it over the lip of the acetabulum. After the reduction, in consequence of the re- laxed state of the muscles, great care is required in removing the patient to his bed. The two cases which follow, shew the advan- tage derived from the employment of constitu- tional as well as mechanical means. I am in- debted to Mr. Norwood, surgeon at Hertford, for the detail of the following CASE. William Newman, a strong muscular man, nearly 30 years of age, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, on Wednesday, December 4th, 1812, under the care of Mr. Astley Cooper, for a dis- location of the hip-joint. In springing from the shafts of a waggon, on Thursday, November 1th, his foot slipped and his hip was driven against the wheel with considerable force. He immediately tell, and being found to be unable to walk, was carried to Kingston Workhouse, which was near the place at which the accident happened. On the evening of that day, he was examined by a medical man, but the nature of the accident was not ascertained. He re- mained at Kingston until the 31st of Novem-Oisr DISLOCATIONS* 33 ber, and was then removed to Guildford his place of residence, and trom thence was sent on the 4th of December to Guy’s Hospital. On examination, the head of the thigh-bone was found resting on the dorsum ilii, the trochanter was thrown forwards towards the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium. The knee and foot were turned inwards, and the limb short- ened one inch and an half; the great toe rested upon the metatarsal bone of the other foot, and there was but little motion in the limb. On Saturday, December the 7th, being thirty days after the accident, an extension was made to reduce the limb, and previously to the application of the bandages, he was bled to tw'enty-four ounces from his arm ; in about ten minutes after this he was put into a warm-bath, where he remained until he became faint, w^hich happened in fifteen minutes ; he then had a grain of tartarized antimony given him, which was repeated in sixteen minutes, as the first dose did not produce nausea. The most distressing nausea was now quickly produced, but he did not vomit, and under the influence of this debilitat- ing cause, he was carried into the operating theatre in a state of great exhaustion. He was placed on a table on his left side. The bandage was applied in the usual manner to fix the pel- vis, and the pullies were fastened to a strap around the knee. The thigh was drawn obli- quely across the other, not quite two-thirds of its length downwards, and the extension was con- tinued for ten minutes, when the bone slipped into its socket. The man was discharged from D34 ON DISLOCATIONS. the hospital in three weeks from the period of his admission, making a rapid progress towards a recovery of the perfect use and strength of the limb. CASE II. For these details I am indebted to Mr. Tho- mas, who is now apothecary to St. Luke’s Hos- pital, but who attended this case as dresser at St. Thomas’s Hospital. William Chapman, aged 50 years, was admit- ted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, on Thursday, September 10th, 1812, with a dislocation of the hip, upon the left dorsum ilii, which was oc- casioned by the mast of a ship falling upon the part, and throwing him down, on the Wednes- day six weeks prior to-his admission into the hospital. It was reduced on Friday the 11th of September, in the following manner. The pa- tient was bled by opening a vein in each arm, and thirty-four ounces of blood were taken away. He was then put into a warm-bath, and a grain of tartarized antimony given him which was repeated every ten minutes; this, with the previous means, produced fainting and nausea. The patient was then placed on a table on hiff right side, and a girt was carried between his thighs and over his pelvis, so as to completely confine it; a wetted roller was applied above the knee, and upon it a leathern belt, with rings for the pullies. The extension was then made in a direction so that the dislocated thigh crossed 7ON DISLOCATIONS. S5 the other below its middle, which in half an hour succeeded in reducing it. Contrast this case with the following. CASE III. I was desired to visit a man aged 28 y^ars, who, by the overturning of a coach, had dislo- cated his left hip more than five weeks before, and who had been declared not to have a dislo- cation, -although the case was extremely well marked. His leg was full two inches shorter than the other j his knee and foot turned in- wards ; and the inner side of the foot rested opposite to the malleolus internus of the other leg. The thigh was slightly bent towards the abdomen, and the knee was advanced over the other thigh. The head of the thigh-bone could be distinctly felt upon the dorsum of the ilium; and when the two hips were compared, the natural roundness of the dislocated side had disappeared. I used only mechaniqal means in my attempts at reduction, and although 1 employed the pullies, and varied the direction of repeated extensions, I could not succeed in replacing the bone, and this person returned to the country with the dislocation unreduced. In the following case, the extensions were made by men without the aid of pullies. CASE IV. William Piper, aged 25 years, had the wheel of a cart laden with hay pass between his legs D 2ON DISLOCATIONS. 36 and over the upper part of his right tliigli. Mr. Holt, surgeon at Tottenham, was sent for nearly a month after the accident had happened; he found him in great pain, attended with fe- ver and much local inflammation and tension. He bled him largely, purged him freely, and applied leeches. The leg was shorter than the other, and the head of the bone was seated upon the dorsum ilii; the knee and foot were turned inwards. As I visited Tottenham frequently at that time, Mr. Holt asked me to see the man with him, and we agreed to the propriety of making a trial to reduce it. Mr. Holt and my- self, assisted by five strong men, exerted our best endeavours to put the bone into its socket. Repeatedly fatigued, we were several times obliged to relax and renew our attempts. At length, exhausted, we were about to abandon any further trial, but agreed to make one last effort, when at fifty-two minutes after the com- mencement of the attempt, the bone slipped into its socket. I also, in a case which I attended with Mr, Dyson in Fore Street, succeeded in reducing the limb without the pullies; but the violence . used was so great, the extension so unequal, (and our fatigue was nearly as severe as that of the patient,) that I am confident no person who had used pullies in dislocation of the hip, would have recourse to any other mode, excepting in the dislocation into the foramen ovale.37 ON DISLOCATIONS. On the Dislocation (lowirwards, or in the Foramen Ovale, This accident happens when the thighs are widely separated from each other. The Hga- mentnm teres and the lower part of the capsu- lar ligament are torn through, and the head of ^ the bone becomes situated in the posterior and inner part of the thigh upon the obturator ex- ternus ipuscle. The limb is in this case from signs of. two to three inches longer than the other. The head of the bone can be felt by pressure of the hand, upon the inner and upper part of the thigh towards the perineum. The trochanter major is less prominent than on the opposite side. The body is bent forwards, owing to the psoas and iliacus internus muscles being put upon the stretch. The thigh is considerably advanced if the body be erect; the knee is widely separated from the other, and cannot be brought without great difficulty near the axis of the body to touch the other knee, owing to the extension of the glutei and pyriforrais muscles. The foot, though widely separated from the other, is neither turned outwards nor inwards generally, although I have seen it vary- ing a little in this respect in different instances; but the position of the foot does not in this case mark the accident. It is the bent position of the body, the separated knees, and the in- creased length of the limb, which are the dia- gnostic symptoms"ON DISLOCATIONS. 38 Dissection. We have an excellent preparation of this ac- cident in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospi- tal, which I dissected many years ago. The head of the thigh-bone was found resting in the foramen ovale, but the obturator externus muscle was completely absorbed, and the liga- ment naturally occupying the foramen, was en- tirely converted into bone. Around the foramen ovale bony matter was deposited, so as to form | a deep cup, in which the head of the thigh-bone was inclosed, but in such a manner as to allow of considerable motion ; and the cup thus form- ed surrounded the neck of the thigh-bone with- out touching it, so as to inclose the head, that it could not be removed from its new socket without breaking its edges. The inner side of this new cup was extremely smooth, having not the least ossific projection at any part of it to im- ^ pede the motion of the head of the bone, which i was only restrained by the muscles from its usual i movements. The original acetabulum was half f filled by bone, so that it could not have re- ceived the ball of the thigh-bone if it had been | put back into its natural situation. The head j of the thigh-bone was very little altered j its ar- 1 ticular cartilage still remained ; the ligamentum teres was entirely broken, and the capsular liga- > ment partially torn through; the pectinalis I muscle and adductor brevis had been lacerated, ' i but were united by tendon ; the psoas muscle j and iliacus internus, the glutei and pyriformis \ were all upon the stretch. Nothing can be more I curious, or to the surgeon and physiologist more ^ beautiful, than the changes produced by this %39 ON DISLOCATIONS. neglected accident in shewing the resources of nature in producing restoration. The reduction of this dislocation is generally Reduction, very easily effected. If the accident has hap- pened recently, all that is required is to place the patient upon his back, to separate the thighs as widely as possible, and to place a girt be- tween the pudendum and upper part of the thigh, fixing it to a staple in the wall. The surgeon then puts his hand upon the ancle of the dislocated side, and draws it over the sound ' ^ leg, and it slips into its socket. Thus I saw a dislocation reduced, which had happened very recently, and which was subjected to an extension in St. Thomas’s Hospital almost imme- diately after the patient’s admission. In this case the thigh might be fixed by the bed-post received between the pudendum and the up- per part of the limb, and the leg be carried inwards across the other. But in general it is required to fix the pelvis by a girt passed around it, and crossed under that which passes around the thigh, otherwise the pelvis moves in the same direction with the head of the bone. (See Plate.) And in those cases in which the dislocation has existed for three or four weeks, it is best to place the patient upon his side, to fix the pelvis by one bandage, and to carry another under the thigh to which the pullies are affixed, then to draw the thigh upwards whilst the surgeon presses down the foot, to prevent the lower part of the limb being drawn with the thigh-bone. Thus the limb is used as a lever with very considerable power. Great care must be taken not to ad- vance the leg in any considerable degree, other-1: 40 ON DISLOCATIONS. wise the head of the thigh-bone will be forced behind the acetabulum into tlie ischiatic notch, from whence it cannot afterwards be reduced. Of the Dislocation backwards^ or in the Ischiatic Jsiotch, Nature of • the acci- dent. Detection difficult. Signs. In this dislocation the head of the thigh-bone is placed on the pyrifbrmis muscle, between the edge of the hone which forms the upper part of the ischiatic notch, and the sacro sciatic liga- ments, behind the acetahulum, and a little above the level of the middle of that cavity. It is tlie dislocation most difficult both to de- tect and to reduce :—to detect, because the length of the limb differs but little, and its po- sition is not so much changed as regards the knee and foot, as in the dislocation upwaixls: to reduce, because the head ot ihe bone is. placed deep behind the acetabulum, and it ( therefore requires to be lifted over its edge, as t- well as to he drawn towards its socket. The signs of this dislocation are, that the limb is about half an inch to one inch shorter than the other, hut generally not more than half an inch ; that the trochanter major is be- hind its usual place, but is still remaining nearly at right angles with the ilium, with a slight in- clination towards the acetabulum. The head of the bone is so buried in the ischiatic notch, that it cannot be distinctly felt ei^cept in thin persons, and then only by rolling the thigh-bone forwards as far as the comparatively fixed state of the limb will allow. The knee and the footON DISLOCATIONS. 41 are turned inwards, but not nearly so much as signs, in the dislocation upwards, and the toe rests against the ball of the great toe of the other foot. When the patient is standing, the toe touches the ground ; but the heel does not quite reach it. The knee is not so much ad- vanced as in the dislocation upwards, but is still brought a little more forward than the other, and is slightly bent. The limb is fixed, 60 that both flexion and rotation are in a great degree prevented. We have a good specimen in the collection at i^'ssecUon. St. T' omas’s Hospital, which I met with acci- dentally in a subject brought for dissection. The original acetabulum is entirely filled with a ligamentous substance, so that the head of the bone could hot have been received into it. The capsular ligament is torn from its connection with the acetabulum, at its anterior and poste- rior junction, but not at its superior uiid infe- rior. The Jigamentum teres is broken, and an inch of it adheres still to tlie head of the bone. Tiie head of the bone rests behind the acetabu- lum on the p^wfbrmis muscle, at the edge of the notch above the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The muscle on which it rests is diminished, but there has been no attempt made to torm a new socket in bone for tlie head of the o.> femoris. Around the head of the thigh-bone a new capsular ligament is formed; it does not ad* here to the articulatoiy cartilage of the ball of the bone wly^^h it surrounds, but could, when opened, be turned back to tlie neck of the thigh-bone, so as to leave its head completely! 42 ON DISLOCATIONS. 6an!^p. exposed. Within this new capsular ligament which is formed of the surrounding cellular membrane, the broken ligamentum teres is found. (See Plate.) The trochanter major is rather behind the acetabulum, but a little in- clined towards it. This dislocation must have existed, from the appearances of the parts, a length of time ; the adhesions were too strong to have admitted of any reduction, and, if re- duced, the bone could not have remained in its Original socket. This dislocation is produced by force, being applied when the body is bent forward upon the thigh, or when the thigh is bent towards the abdomen ; when, if the knee be pressed inward, the head of the bone is thrown behind the acetabulum. Reduction. The reduction of the dislocation in the ischi- •» atic notch is generally extremely difficult, and is best effected in the following manner ; the patient lies on a table upon his side, and a girt | is to be placed between the pudendum and the inner part of the thigh to fix the pelvis. Then the leather strap for the pullies is placed above the knee, upon which a wetted roller is tightly applied. A napkin is to be carried under the upper part of the thigh. The thigh-bone is then brought across the middle of the other thigh, measuring from the pubis to the knee,and the ex- i tension is to be made with the pullies. Whilst this is conducting, an assistant pulls the napkin at the upper part of the thigh with one hand, and rests the other upon the brim of the pelvis, and thus lifts the bone as it is drawn towards the aceta- Jx43 ON DISLOCATIONS. ! bulum over its lip. For the napkin I have seen a round towel very conveniently substituted, and this was carried under the upper part of the thigh, and over the shoulders of an assist- ant, who then rested his hands on the pelvis, as he raised his body and lifted the thigh. Although the above is the method in which this dislocation is most easily reduced, yet I have seen a different mode practised, and I shall mention it here, as it sheyvs how the muscles, opposing the pullies, will draw the head of the bone to its socket, when it is lifted from the cavity into which it has fallen. CASE. A man, aged 25, was admitted into Guy*s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lucas; upon examination the thigh was found dislocated backwards ; the limb scarcely differed in length from the other, not being more than half an inch shorter; the groin appeared depressed; the troclianter was resting a little behind the acetabulum, but inclined upon it; the knee and foot were turned inwards, and the head of the bone could in this case be felt behind the acetabulum. An extension w^as made by pul- lies in a right line with the body ; and at the time this extension was made, the trochanter major was thrust forwards with the hand, and the bone returned in about two minutes into its socket with a violent snap. I have already mentioned, that I have seen no instance of a dislocation downwards and44 ON DISLOCATIONS. C-ause. 4 backwards ; and when I state that I have been an attentive observer of the practice of our hospitals for thirty years, was also for many years in the habit of daily seeing the poor of London at my house early in the morning, and have had a considerable share of private prac- tice, if such a case does ever occur, it must be extremely rare. I cannot help thinking also, that some anatomical error must have given rise to this opinion, as in the dislocation downwards and backwards it is described as being received still into the ischiatic notch ; but this notch is, in the natural position of the pelvis, above the level of the line, drawn through the middle of the acetabulum ; and hence it is that the leg is shorter, not longer, when the bone is dislocated into the ischiatic notch. Of the Dislocation of the Fuhis. This"^ dislocation is more easy of detection than any other of the thigh. It happens from a person in walking putting his foot into some unexpected hollow in the ground, and his body at the moment is bent backwards ; the head of the bone is thrown forwards upon the os pubis. A gentleman who had met with this dislocation in his own person, told me that it happened whilst he was walking across a paved yard in the dark, and he did not know that one of the stones had been taken up : his foot suddenly sunk into the hollow, and he fell backwards; and when his limb was examined, the head of the thigh-bone was found upon the os pubis. 645 ON DISLOCATIONS. The limb is in this case an inch shorter than symptoms, the other; the knee and the-foot are turned outwards, and cannot be rotated inwards, but there is a slight flexion forwards and outwards ; and in a dislocation which had been long unre- duced, the motion at the knee backwards and forwards was full twelve inches; but the striking criterion of this dislocation is, that the head of the thigh-bone may be distinctly felt upon the pubis, above the level of Poupart’s ligament, to the outer side of the femoral artery and vein. It feels as a hard ball there, which is readily perceived to move by bending the thigh-bone. Yet although this case is apparently so easy of detection, I have known three instances, in which it was overlooked, until it was too late for re- duction. One, of which we have now a prepa- Not detect- ration at St. Thomas’s Hospital ; one in a gen- tleman from the country, in whom it was not discovered until some weeks after the accident. He then submitted to an extension which did not succeed, and came to London to ask my opinion, when I advised him against a further extension, and, indeed, he was himself averse to any other trial. The third was a patient in Guy’s Hos- pital, who w^as admitted for an ulcerated leg, and was found to have a dislocation upon the pubis, which had happened some years be- fore. It really must be great carelessness which leads to this error, as the case is so strikingly marked. I dissected one of these dislocations, and we Dissection, have it preserved in our Anatomical Collection. It shews changes of parts nearly, but not quite46 ON DISLOCATIONS. equal to those in the dislocation into the fora- men ovale. The original acetabulum is par- tiall}^ filled by bone, and in part occupied by the trochanter major, and both are much altered in their form. The capsular ligament is exten- sively lacerated, and the ligamentum teres broken. The head of the thigh-bone had torn up Poupart’s ligament, so as to be admitted be- tween it and the pubis. The head and neck of the thigh-bone are flattened and much changed in their form. Upon the pubis a new aceta- bulum is formed from the neck of the thigh- bone, for the head of the bone is above the level of the pubis. The new acetabulum ex- tends upon each side of the neck of the bone, so as to lock it upon the pubis. (See Plate.) PouparPs ligament confines it on the forepart; on the inner side of the neck of the bone, passed the artery^ vein and nerve, so that the head of the bone was seated between the crural sheath and the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium. This accident might, by an inattentive ob- server, be mistaken for a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, but the head of the bone felt upon the pubis, will at once decide its na- ture. RsducUon. In the reduction of this dislocation, the pa- tient Is to be placed upon his side on a table ; the girt is carried between the pudendum and inner part of the thigh, and fixed in a staple, a little before the line of the body. The pullies are fixed above the knee, as in the dislocation upwards, and then the extension isOJf DlSLOCAl^IONS. 47 to be made in a line behind the axis of ’the body, the thigh-bone being drawn backwards. After this extension has been for some time continued, a napkin is to be carried under the upper part of the thigh, and an assistant'press- ing with one hand on the pelvis, lifts the head of the bone over the pubis and edge of the ace- tabulum. The following case which occurred in Guy’s Hospital, at the time my friend Mr. now Dr. Gaitskili was a dresser to Mr. Forster, will best exemplify the mode of reduction. He was a dresser in the years 1803 and 1804. Bathf August 13, 1817. DEAR SIR, The report of the case of dislocated thigh, which 1 have sent you, contains every material circumstance within my recollection j it will af- ford me much pleasure if you can extract any thing from it useful, or conducive to your pur- pose. I remain yours most sincerely, JOSEPH A. GAITSKILL. CASE. A. B. with a dislocation of the os femoris^ upon the pubis, was admitted into Guy’s Hos- pital, under Mr. Forster, during the time I was one of his dressers. The length of the limb was somewhat dimi- nished ; the foot and knee turned outwards; but the circumstance which more clearly evinc- ed the nature of the accident was, that the headON DrSLOCATIONS* 43 of the thigh-bone could be distinctly perceived under the integuments near the groin, where its shape could be ascertained, as well as its motion felt when the thigh was moved. The accident had happened from a slip or fall he had sus- tained about three hours before. With respect to the reduction ; as the man was brought into the hospital in the evening, when Mr. Forster was absent, I considered it my duty to attempt to replace the bone imme- diately. I therefore ordered the patient to be carried into the operating theatre ; whilst this was doing, I invited my three brother dressers into the surgery, informed them of the accident, and to avoid confusion, requested each to take some particular part in the process of reduction. The patient was placed on his sound side upou a table, the pullies applied to the thigh in the usual manner, and extension began in a straight line, with the design of raising the head of the bone into its socket, but without success. Re- flecting then a moment on the mechanism of the bones, and their new relative situation, I changed the line of extension to a little back- wards and downwards, and passing a towel over my own shoulders, and under the superior part of the man’s thigh, raised it by extending my body. The leg being kept bent, as from the begin- ning of the operation, nearly to a right angle with the thigh, I requested one of the dressers to take hold of the ancle, and raise it, keeping the knee at the same time depressed, by which means, the thigh was turned over inwards, andON DISLOCATIONS. 49 in a very short time, the head of the bone snapped into its acetabulum. Dr. Dorsey, a most intelligent surgeon in America, who, I sincerely hope, may continue his professional career with the same ardour and good sense which he has hitherto manifested, mentions a case of dislocation on the pubis, in which the head of the thigh-bone was placed be- low Poupart’s ligament, and the leg was longer, but this was an exception to a general rule. Of Fractures of the Os Innommatum, As these accidents are liable to be mistaken for dislocations, and as any extension made for them adds extremely to the patient’s sufferings, and endangers the producing fatal consequences if there was previously a probability of recovery, I am anxious to say a few words upon them at this moment. When a fracture of the os innominatum hap- pens through the acetabulum, the head of the bone is drawn upwards, and the trochanter somewhat forwards, so that the leg is shorten- ed, and the knee and foot are turned inwards : such a case then may be readily mistaken for dislocation. If the os innominatum is disjoint- ed from the sacrum, and the pubis and ischium are broken, the limb is slightly shorter than the other; but in this case the knee and foot are not turned inwards. Of the first of these acci- dents I have seen two examples j of the latter only one. E Mistaken.c Symptoms.ON DISLOCATIONS. 50 These accidents are generally to be detected by a crepitus being perceived in the motion of the thigh, if the hand be placed upon the crista of the ilium ; and they are attended with more motion than oceurs in dislocations. With respect to the appearances on dissec- tion, they will be seen in the Plates. CASE. A man was brought into St. Thomas’s Hos- pital in January 1791, on whom a hogshead of sugar had fallen. Upon examination, the right leg was found about two inches shorter than the left, and the knee and foot were turned inwards. These circumstances induced the surgeon under whose care he fell, to think the case a dislo- cation, although as he stated the limb appeared to be more moveable than usually happens in such accidents, and there was a great contu- sion and considerable extravasation of blood. The surgeon used the utmost caution in making a very slight extension, but which did not suc- ceed ; and whilst it was performing, a crepitus was discovered in the os innominatum. The man had a remarkable depression of strength and paleness of countenance, and appeared to be sinking. In the evening he died. Upon examination of the body the following appearances were observed: • The posterior part of the acetabulum was broken off, and the head of the thigh-bone had slipped from its socket j the tendon of the ob* 7ON DISLOCATIONS. SI turator internus and the gemini tightly em- braced the neck of the bone ; the fracture ex- tended from the acetabulum across the os inno- minatum to the pubis j the pubes were sepa- rated at the symphysis nearly an inch asunder, and a portion of the cartilage was torn from the right pubis, and adhered to that on the left side 5 the iha were separated on each side, and the pubis, ischium and ilium broken on the left side; the abdomen contained about a pint of blood, and the left kidney was greatly bruised; the integuments were stripped off the patellae and knee on one side, so as to expose the cap- sular ligament. In a second case of this kind which was admitted into St, Thomas’s Hospital, having the appearance of the dislocation backwards, the patient lived four-days. On examination, the fracture was found passing through the acetabulum dividing the bone into three parts, and the head of the thigh-bone was deeply sunken into the cavity of the pelvis. (See plate.) The following case of fracture and disloca- tion of the bones of the pelvis, lately occurred in Guy’s Hospital: I am obliged for the par- ticulars to Mr. Sandford, who attended to this woman as dresser. CASE. Mary Griffiths, aged 30 years, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital at 5 o’clock in the after- noon of the 8th of August, 1817. Her pelvis E 252 ON DISLOCATIONS. had sustained a severe injury from her body being pressed by the wheel of a cart against a lamp-post. A small quantity of blood had been taken from her arm previous to her admission, and as she was very pale, her pulse was extremely weak, and her faeces passed involuntarily, no more blood was drawn. Soon after her admission, she was examined by placing her on the face, and one of my hands on the back of the right ilium, and the other on the pubis of the same side, a dis- tinct motion and crepitus could be perceived. The posterior spine of the ilium projected up- wards, above its usual junction with the sacrum, and it was thought that the ilium was dislocated from the sacrum, with some fracture either of the ilium or sacrum. When she was turned on the back, and examined per vaginam, the pubes were found passing more into the cavity of the pelvis than usual. A large quantity of blood was efhised from the last rib to the upper part of the thigh, on the right side. It was now a question, whether this extra vasated bloodshould notbedischargedby making an open- ing through the integuments, as it appeared to be fluid ; but upon consideration, it was thought that the vessels would still bleed, that she could not bear the loss of blood in her weakened state, and that the blood, when coagulated, would form the best security against further effusion. All that was done therefore was, to roll a broad bandage round the pelvis to fix it firmly: to give Tinct. Opii. Gt. xxx. and to draw oflf theON DISLOCATIONS. 53 urine from her bladder, which contained about a pint. In the evening, the extravasation of blood was somewhat increased, and she complained of a pricking sensation in the right thigh and leg, which induced her to loosen the bandage. She had vomited; her feet were cold; she had se- vere pain and great thirst; her pulse was 90 and small. On the 9th, she complained of a sensation of one side tearing from the other, and upon examination of the lower extremities, that on the right side w^as found shorter than the other; there was numbness also on that side; her tongue was furred, but her pain and thirst some- w^hat less, and she had not the same coldness in her feet as she had last night___^--^ As her bowels had'HdtHbeen relieved since her admission, aperient medicine was given her, and the bladder being incapable of emptying itself, a catheter was employed. The ecchy- mosis was of great extent, and it was doubtful if it could be absorbed. A pillow was placed against the right side, to support the pelvis, and another was put under the knee, to preserve the limb in an easy position. In the evening of this day her pulse was 112; she complained much of pain in the right side and groin, the catheter was again obliged to be used, and aperient medicine to be re- peated. On the morning of the 10th she complained of the bones of the pelvis moving upon each other, even more than at any former period, s54 ON DISLOCATIONS. and that she had suffered severe pain; the tongue was now furred, her pulse fuller, but her bowels had been relieved, and she had made water without assistance. At one o’clock this day, her pulse being fuller, and 120 in a minute, with great heat of skin, 1 bled her to the amount of ten ounces, but the blood did not exhibit any signs of inflammation, nor did the loss of blood produce any apparent effect in re- lieving her symptoms.' In the evening, her pain and fever had in- creased, and as she complained of the tightness of the bandage which still surrounded the pelvis, it was removed. The catheter was again ob- liged to be employed. Some saline medicine, with opium, was directed for her. On the lltb, she stated that she had passed a good night; her pulse was 120 and softer; her tongue furred ; she was directed to con- tinue her medicines. A stimulating lotion was ordered her on the 12th, to produce an absorption of the ex- trava^ated blood. Some spots appeared of a very dark colour, where the ecchymosis had been most severe, and the cuticle was abraded upon those parts. On the 13th her report was more favourable; her bowels were open, and her bladder did not require the assistance of the catheter. How- ever she still complained of severe pain in the hip. 14th. As the excoriated parts seeined dis- posed to slough, a puncture was made through the integuments, nearly opposite to the tro- i> i i i i ► ■ I «ON DISLOCATIONS. chanter major, and a quart of serum mixed with the red particles of blood, and with a substance which appeared adipose, was dis- charged. On the loth her faeces and urine had passed into her bed, and she requested to be removed to another; her pulse was 112. The puncture made yesterday does not seem disposed to heal, and a poultice was directed for it. 16th. She expressed herself relieved by her removal into another bed; her pain is less se- vere; her pulse but 108. She was now directed a diet to support her strength, and some porter was given her; but on the 17th, as she had been observed to be slightly delirious the preceding night, the quantity of porter was lessened. On the 18th, the sloughing of the part which had been excessively bruised, had considerably increased; yet her tongue was cleaner, and her skin of its natural heat. On the following day she appeared better; had passed a good night; she was ordered a poultice of stale beer grounds to the hip, and as she strongly requested it, she was turned on her left side, as her impression was, it would relieve the pain she felt on the right side. The sloughing of the superior and posterior part of the thigh had increased upon the 20th; and she was ordered the decoction and tincture of bark, with saline medicine if her thirst became urgent; and a more nutritious diet. On the 21st the sloughing had Increased; the tongue was now furred ; her pulse was 120.II ' ON DISLOCATIONS. On the 22d she was worse, and on the 23d her stomach rejected every thing; she had a strong impression that she could not recover; she refused her medicine, and the slough had in- creased. In the evening of the 24th she died. Examination. On the 25th the body was examined. A fracture was found passing through the body of the pubis on the left side, and through the ramus of the left ischium. The right os innominatum was separated from the sacrum at the sacro-iliac symphysis, and a part of the transverse processes of the sacrum was broken off*, and tom from the sacrum with the ligaments. The cartilage and ligaments of the symphysis pubis were torn, and the left sa- cro-iliac symphysis had given way; the ligament over it being torn, and the bones separated sufficiently to admit of the handle of a scalpel being received between them. Blood was found extravasated in the pelvis behind the peritoneum. JONATHAN SANDFORD. frac- I have known three instances of fracture of tures some- innominatum recover: two of these wdu were fractures of the ilium, and the nature of the accidents was easily detected by the cre- pitus which was perceived upon moving the J I 1 ■ f ‘ Y ! K i i f I rji| ’ ? t I i if f UON DISLOCATIONS. S7 crista of the ilium ; the third was a fracture of the junction of the ramus of the ischium, and pubis. In the two first a circular roller was applied upon the pelvis, and the patient freely bled; but in the latter no bandage was em- ployed. fTo he continued.)PLATE, 2. ll Thomson, hel* Ja\!/tfchr//EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. PLATE I. Shews the position of the limb in the different species of injury to the hip. Fig. 1. The dislocation upwards on the dorsum ilii: the leg is shortened; the knee and foot turned inwards. Fig. 2. Dislocation downwards in the foramen ovale; the limb is longer than the other ; " the body bent forwards, and the knee ad- vanced. Fig. 3. Dislocation backwards, or in the ischiatic notch ; the leg is from half an inch to an inch shorter than the other; the knee and foot turned inwards. Fig. 4. Dislocation forwards on the pubes ; the leg is shorter; the knee and foot turned out- wards ; there is a prominence at the groin. Fig. 5. Fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone; the leg is shorter; knee and foot turned outwards ; the fracture within the capsular ligament generally Occurs in persons con- siderably advanced in years; the leg in this case is capable of being pulled down to the length of the other; but is immediately drawn back by the action of the muscles.60 EXPLANATION OF PLATE II, Views of Preparations of the different Dislocations. Fig. 1. Dislocation in the foramen ovale: ilia; ischium ; c, pubes; c?,foramen ovale; e, acetabulum;^ sacrum; g^ thigh-bone; /r, new acetabulum receiving the head of the thigh-bone; old acetabulum. Fig. 2. Another view of the same preparation; ilium; h, old acetabulum much dimi- nished ; c, new acetabulum; d,d thigh-bone, with a portion of the new acetabulum upon it, which was obliged to be broken to re- move the thigh-bone from its new cup. Fig. S. Dislocation in the ischiatic notch ; a, ilium; 3, tuberosity of the ischium ; f, thigh- bone; d, trochanter major ; head of the bone; g^ new capsular ligament; hy torn fligamentum teres. Fig- 4. Dislocation on the pubes; ilia; ^,5, pubes; c,c, ischia; d, thigh-bone; e, tro- chanter major in the acetabulum;^ head of the thigh-bone; g,g^ new acetabulum. Fig- 5. The same preparation of dislocation on the pubes with the thigh-bone removed; ilia; pubes; c, ischia; c?, old acetabulum; e, new acetabulum upon the os pubis. Fig- 6. Fracture of the acetabulum ; «, broken pubes; ilium broken; c, fractured ischium.I '■ rI'. S.v..MJ%.,nas: JW n.n-.ual,..i-l.,.,u,«uv, .i- i-:7'.u,r,u,st^- How61 EXPLANATION OF PLATE ILL Fig. 1. Shews the dislocation upwards on the dorsum ilii, and the position of the ban- dages required for its reduction; «, the belt which fixes the pelvis, and which pass- ing between the thighs is tied above the ilium and fixed to some immoveable body; b, the pulley fixed above the knee and to a screw on some fixed body ; c, head of the thigh-bone on the dorsum ilii; d, aceta- bulum. ; Fig, 2, Dislocation downwards in the foramen ovale; a, the belt to fix the pelvis ; b, the belt for the pulley which passes between the thighs and between the belt a, and the body so as to fix both; c, the hand of the surgeon grasping the leg to bring it across the other as the extension is made at b; d, the head of the thigh-bone; e, the ace- tabulum. . r62 EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. Fig, 3. Dislocation backwards or in the ischi- atic notch; a, belt fixing the pelvis carried between the thighs; b, pullies fixed above the knee; c, a belt fixed around the upper part of the thigh to place tha hand under and to raise the thigh-bone from the pelvis, as the extension is making with the pulley, so as to lift the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum; d, acetabulum; e, head of the bone in the ischiatic notch above the level of the centre of the aceta- bulum ; patient is placed on his side. Fig, 4. Dislocation on the pubes, or forwards and upwards; a, belt to fix the pelvis; pulley fixed above the knee; c, belt or handkerchief fixed around the upper part of the thigh to lift the head of the bone during the extension over the edge of the acetabulum; d, head of the bone; e, aceta- bulum; patient is placed on his side. tf.iuuhn Pithh fhri^ hr h .1'.' 7'/n'mttsx Sttyef /iortuujh. /jotu/num J\ttia'tu*stej -M^u\I -V. - ^ - r' 's:*'I i9!' .• • k ■EXPLANATION OF 63 PLATE V, Fig* 1. Shews the effects of a disease in the hip- joint, as producing absorption of the aceta- bulum, and a new socket for the head of the thigh-bone 5 the head of the bone is in these cases also partially absorbed and altered in its figure; a, new surface for the head of the thigh-bone ; h, original acetabulum. Fig. 2. Fracture of the pelvis and laceration of the sacro-iliac symphysis, as described in the case given me by Mr. Sandfbrd; the os pubis is broken and the branch of the ischium; the right' sacro-iliac ligament is torn away, and the ilium rises upon the sacrumthe left sacro-iliac symphysis is ‘ also torn; a, the ilium disjointed from the sacrum; h, ligament and cartilage torn on the opposite side ; c, ramus ischii broken; pubes fractured.r ■ W’- ■ ■ rf. ■ 'ft. i.' <^. 4- ^r>i7V,rt' i a *r, ‘ \ .■i ;‘'\y;\'i » r '"j. ^ ♦• ■. ^ r. «iV. .1 i-.: tJR : ■ * ^ *9 . • ■ - \ ^ - 3- ‘^"- T / .I J •-• iij ;x, y r. 1 •. i<' :r^ v ::.eif ni !>■ L ' / eu . j .S? .‘^S: ili: hotlh-?^ii ,-tv:kfri:vg Sii' ’• '. >■ * * . •* ^ •- /iH Vo ’ suJ ii3V% e#. ;w •:: 1o. fiuiiti'id £ ';i ijfi-; /t^o'icf il eUhn] 'O . i-.i *f . ,r;di»4,<‘frmdo3{ ' • ' uoGij nirjiii, 9J'i hqn , . ^v/'i' n ;uj . fel .aid iffn:.' ''r‘iii-{.rjf;« iidl ..e;!) jinirio/j?? ■ 9ih 9(b «V» |!nct esiK - .‘Uiui ; able? ^x?i^^[qo ^ _1 -A. . • .55^ ■• V-t •. . -ON IRITIS. By Mk. TRAVERS. The interior tunics of the eye are subject to inflammation, arising either as an idiopathic aflection, or from the extension of protracted inflammation of the superficial tunic. The effects of this inflammation are conspicuous in the iris, and by the term “ Iritis” I mean to ex- press the deep seated inflammation of the eye. It appears in company with rheumatism of the chronic form, sometimes witli^ gout; with the constitutional signs of the lues venerea; and during or following the action of mercury upon the system. It is in reference to the two latter associatiotls of the iritis, that I propose principally to consi- der the disease in this essay. Although the cases of iritis co-existing with sore throat, cutaneous eruptions, and nodes, which are regarded and successfully treated as venereal, are too frequen'Mo escape observation, the iris is not mmftioned by Mr. Hunter and other pathologists as d part subject to be affected by the syphilitic poison*. I have met with cases in which the mer- Combina- cunal action had been set up for primary lues, mer- and the iritis was present, unaccompanied by any secondary symptom of that disease. I have also met with cases of iritis in which pains * Mr. Hunter is not singular in questioning the existence of a venereal ophthalmia. F66 ON IRITIS. confined to the joints have been accompanied by eruptions widely differing from those which have been commonly considered venereal. Its occurrence, indeed, during the use of mercury, is so well established and familiar a fact, among persons who see much of ophthalmic diseases, that their first inquiry of a patient labouring under inflammation of the iris is, not whether he has recently contracted syphilis, but whether he has been taking mercury. For although the iritis is frequently met with where no mer- cury has been taken, it is scarcely ever seen as a sequela of syphilis, where mercury has not been exhibited so as to affect the system ; and I think it is more frequent as a consequent upon the use of mercury, than occurring as an idiopathic disease. Under this denomination I do not include those frequent affections of the choroid and iris, which are plainly depending upon the duration and extension of superficial' ophthalmia. Under these circumstances, it is not surpri- sing, that some surgeons of reputation should be disposed to deny, .that the inflammation of the iris is a venereal inflammation, and should consider it as belonging to that class of symp- toms which resemble, or are grafted upon, the sy- philitic, and that others should regard it as an in- flammation produced by the poison of mercury. It appears to me at present impossible to pronounce whether the iritis, so ^frequently pre- sented after sores’ on the genitals, and accom- panied by eruptions, is the effect of a morbid poison, or of the mercurial poison j or thirdly, 667 ON IRITIS. the casual effect of exposure to an exciting cause in a state of predisposition from the mercurial impregnation of the system. We have no means of tracing the course of a Course of a morbid poison, beyond the absorbent system of the part in' which it is secreted. The sore, the inflamed absorbent, and the gland in which it terminates, comprise the extent of our observa- tion of its progress. Having passed this barrier and entered the circulation, the circumstances by which its re-appearance here or there is deter- mined, are as much hidden from us as the cause of its re-appearance. But having entered the system, and extending to the skin, throat, and even bones, it would be difficult to assign a reason why the eye, or any other organ, should be out of the pale of its operation. And al- though we speak of venereal inflammation, we are not in possession of any means whereby to demonstrate and distinguish this from common inflammation. The lymph effused upon the iris is as probable 'an effect of venereal inflamma- tion, as when it is deposited upon the periosteum. The sympathy or consent which obtains be- Apparently , * ^ ' n .1 influenced tween certain parts, appears to influence the bysympa- course of their diseased actions, whether simple or sui generis. The throat, skin, and bones, are observed to be affected by the poison of mer- cury as well as of lues, and also by that which resembles lues, except in its curableness by other means than the use of mercury. It is re- markable that the eye frequently forms a link of this chain, or in other words, that the inflam- mation of the choroid and iris, coexists with F 2ON IRITIS. affections of the throat*, skin, and bones ; whe- ther these are referred to syphilis, pseudo-syphi- lis, mercury, or rheumatism. It is also remark- able, that the remedy which exerts the most powerful and obvious effect upon the inflamed periosteum and skin, acts with the same re- markable efficacy upon the inflamed tunics of the eye and vice versd. Depositions beneath the periosteum, resembling nodes, and eruptions on the skin, are not less certainly induced, by the poison of merc ury, than is the deposition upon the choroid, ending in incurable amaurosis. The two following cases afford a brief expla- nation of the statement, that the consent be- tween certain parts probably influences the course of diseased actions, simple or specific; and I am inclined to believe, that this is the explanation of some at least of the cases resem- bling syphilis, which are occasionally cured with- out the use of mercury. CASE. A young gentleman of particularly correct conduct, and retired habits, while upon his voyage from the West Indies to this country, for the purpose of education, was troubled with a sore upon the penis, which occasioned him much anxiety, as he had never yet indulged in sexual intercourse, and was wholly unable to account for it. On his arrival he applied to a * “There is in facta general tendency to sore throat, and even to affections of the eyes in all the varieties of cutaneous eruptions, which are acconapanied with any degree of fever.^’ Bateman’s Synopsis, Note, p. 333.69 ON IRITIS. confidential friend, stating the circumstance. His skin was shortly afterwards covered with an eruption, which yielded only to a course of mercury. CASE. A married gentleman of character, whom I well knew, applied to me with a paraphymosis and superficial ulceration behind the corona glandis j in which case I know that no venereal commerce had taken place, nor had any mer- curial medicine been employed to affect the system. It began in consequence of a hair having accidentally applied itself around that part. Six weeks after the healing of the sore, the whole cutaneous surface exhibited a plenti- ful crop of pustular eruptions. There were present at the same time, an inflammation and soreness of the membrane of the fauces, severe pains in the bones and joints, and enlargement of the bursse upon the olecrana of the elbows. These symptoms slowly disappeared under the use of the plummers’ pill, by which the system was slightly affected. The analogy which has been observed in the morbid actions of parts possessing similar tex- ture, does not appear to influence the course of these actions, otherwise than by continuity. The morbid affections of the skin, mucous, serous, synovial membranes, are of this descrip- tion 5 the similarity of their diseases respective- ly, is, with reason, referred to the similarity of their textures ; but the principle of consent, which determines the election of parts in the Not in- fluenced by relations «f texture.ON IRITIS. 10 'Perplexity of the sub- ject arising from the use of mer- cury. Origin of iritis from mercury; progress of disease, or in other words, the course of the disease, defies the relations of texture, and is referrible to some other cause. There is little anatomical resemblance between tbe skin, periosteum and choroid, and at all events we may conclude, that the course of a morbid poison is not restricted by relations of texture. It appears then, that the difficulty of deci- ding the question, whether the iris is inflamed by the poison of syphilis, arises, not from any theoretical objection, but from the complication of the cases which are presented to us, by the employment of another powerful agent on the constitution ; and that, until we see the course of the syphilitic poison, genuine and unsophisti- cated, we shall be unable to determine the point. This, in truth, is the cause of the obscurity that overhangs the whole subject of the venereal dis- ease. It is perhaps impossible to say to which, of two agents, the effects belong, which manifest themselves at a period, subsequent to their suc- cessive introduction, as we presume, into the system. Both, we are taught to believe, cannot be at the same time active; but both may be present, or one only may in fact have entered the system. When mercury is exhibited, as it almost constantly is, before the constitutional signs of lues appear, what demonstration can be had of the existence of syphilis in a secondary form ? or, on the other hand, who in his own case would, a priori, abandon the operation of mer- cury, in confidence that thre symptoms which are occasionally referred to its operation, are wholly independent of the poison of syphilis ? In considering whether mercury acting as a71 ON IRITIS. poison upon the system can be a cause of the iritis which so often follows its use, we should bear in mind that although we rarely see the disease unpreceded by mercury, we as rarely ^ see it unpreceded by primary symptoms of lues. It would be unfair to refer it to one ra- ther than the other as far as this evidence goes. . But 1 have satisfied myself of the frequent origin of the disease, while the system has been fully charged with mercury; the sore on the penis for which it was exhibited having long since healed, and no after symptoms of lues being to be discovered. I have also seen it where the system had been mercurialized for gonorrhoea. During the free exhibition of calomel in stru- mous inflammation, I have repeatedly seen the , ^ iris take on the inflammatory action, and while the cure of the iritis was daily accomplishing by the action of mercury in one eye, it has been common to observe the inflammation beginning in the other, as if the action produced effects diametrically opposite upon the sound and the inflamed part. When a person is attacked with ophtlialmia, whose system is charged with mer- cury, the inflammation is never confined to the conjunctiva, but invariably affects the deeper tunics, so far as yny observation goes. Yet I have never seen the iris affected in cases of ec- zema mercuiiale, but always the conjunctiva of the eyelids. With what I have considered to be the mercurial sore throat, very unlike the vene- real, and mercurial eruptions, and nodes, I have repeatedly seen it in conjunction. But, with ]v/V - one exception, I do not call to mind a well as- i certained case of primary iritis, during the con- 1 V Yi7^ or predis- position from iner- eury. ON IRITIS. stitutional action of mercury for a disease in which the genitals had had no concern, as en- largement of the liver, &c. Were it not for this observation, one would be led to conclude that mercury in certain habits affected the highly organized membranes of the eye, as we occa- sionally see it affect the skin, and as other sub- stances, by whatever channel they enter the sys- tem, attack certain organs and parts; as cantha- rides and turpentine the neck of the bladder, arsenic the stomach,and lead the intestinal canal. Whether the iritis followino; the use of mer- cury is simply an effect of accidental exposure to cold, and other exciting causes in a state pe- culiarly susceptible of inflammation, or whether it be due to a cachexia, which the poison of sy- philis or of mercury or both have engendered, is a remaining ground of inquiry. The pains, I have repeatedly observed, which accompany this inflammation, are of a rheuma- tic character, exclusively affecting the joints and muscles ; in general an interval or intervals have elapsed, in the progress of an ill-conducted or protracted course, in which the patient has been exposed to cold and damp before the appearance '• of the disease, and hence it is least frequent in the better class of patients. And although I have sometimes found sores on the penis and buboes in company with the iritis, the pains, or eruptions, or both have usually been present, and the patient has been more or less under the influence of mercury before the' eye was in- flamed. The inflammation of the eye and erup- tions, which yield eventually to the same re- medy, are subject to relapse, and make their73 ON IRITIS. reappearance together ; the pains are sometimes relieved, often aggravated, and seldom if ever removed by its use. The two former yield in a marked degree to the nitric acid, but the oph- thalmia recurs and requires mercury for its cure. The sublimate given in very small doses as a tonic, is likewise inadequate to its cure. Before I enter upon the subiect of the treat- common . ^ . appear- ment, it may be right shortly to describe the ap- ances of pearances of this disease, although I have little to add on this subject to the very accurate ob- servations of the late Mr. t flamed iris the inflammation is characterized by diffused vascularity of the conjunctil^a, and the sensibility of the organ is in proportion acute. The fine hair-like vessels of the iris are injected with red blood, and although the pupil under- goes less alteration than is natural from the changes of light upon the eye, if is not mis- shapen, or very slightly deviates from the circle; nor is there in an early stage of the disease any visible lymphatic deposition within the chamber or upon the face of the iris. Sometimes specks of extravasated blood are perceptible upon this membrane. The pain is chiefly affecting the eyeball, and is accompanied with a sense of pressure as if the globe was too large for its socket. In that which is more advanced, as in the primary iritis, the fibres of the iris are ag- glutinated, its pupillar edge is thickened and immoveable, a boss or a layer of lymph is dis- cerned upon it, the vascularity of the conjunctiva is less, the bright florid colour of the blood-ves- known to the profession. 8ON IRITIS. 74. sels being exchanged for one of a deeper and more purple cast. The vessels on' the sclerotic run in converging lines from all sides of the vi- sible hemisphere of the globe, and form a're- markable vascular zone at the circumference of the cornea. This appearance is probably in- creased by the turgescence of the vessels of the ciliary plexus, and the preternatural freedom of anastomosis between the superficial and deeper seated orders. The pupil is square, ob- long, rhomboidal or a polygon, and a boss or tubercle of lymph is deposited upon one or each . of the angles which are formed in its margin. Sometimes one large projecting lump is seen ; in other cases the whole rim of the pupil is fantasti- cally fringed or tufted. The lymph is sometimes deposited upon the centre of the iris, sometimes on the verge of the pupil, seldom on its ciliary border. In this state the pain is that of hemicra- nia, aggravated by paroxysms, and most intoler- able at night. Chronic There is a slow inflammation of the iris which diseL*f differs from the acute form, chiefly in its very gra- dual access, its comparatively moderate pain, and that affecting only the ball and region of the or- bit ; the very slight degree of superficial vascula- rity; the membranous form and sparing^quantity of lymph effused, or its actual imperceptibleness; the frequent concomitant affection of the cornea with minute and superficial herpetic ulcers, of a brown colour. The iris loses its colour more or less under inflammation, and where lymph has been deposited and organized upon the uvea, ne- ver recovers it; the pigmentum nigrum, upon15 ON IRITIS. ?v'hich it depends, being defective or no longer secreted. The inflammation of the eye after syphilis is i; 'lot, so far as I have observed, characterized by liny peculiarities, so much as the shade of colour 1 of the inflamed conjunctiva and sclerotic, and !:he appearance assumed by the deposited lymph. iXhe former have a brickdust or dusky red, in- ; itead of a bright scarlet hue, and the lymph is ! :conipact and brown, and intimately adhering to ! dthe iris, instead of curd-like, loose, and of a yel- ! Jewish white colour. When the conjunctiva is .highly vascular and florid, as in common oph- tthalmia, and the lymph is diflused, white, loose iin texture, and purifoi m in appearance, especi- lally where the cornea is at the same time clouded, aand the eye very irritable to light, I have con- ssidered tue case to be essentially unconnected vwith syphilis. I do not however feel quite con- tfident of the accuracy of this opinion. The i irritability of the eye to the light has been consi- (dered as diagnostic, and it certainly is so, Ibetween the primary iritis and that which ensues lupon or IS accompanied by acute inflammation (of the conjunctiva. In the latter case the cornea iis hazy, and the aqueous humour turbid ; yet the ivision is not more affected than in the inflamed liris, which has proceeded to the deposition of 1 lymph. The treatment of the disease, which is fortu- ! nately one of the best ascertained points in pa- 1 thology, would seem to throw light upon its ori- I gin ; but the habit of reference to the remedy in ' order to ascertain and class the disease, appears I to me a proceeding altogether unscientific and Peculiari- ties after syphilis. Remedy no clue to the disease.76 ON IRITIS. erroneous. To consider that the symptoms which mercury cures are therefore syphilitic, and that those which it does not cure are not so, is to abandon altogether the analytical investigation of disease. How many diseases essentially dif- il ferent are cured by the same remedy 1 How, 1 confused and useless for the purpose of diagnosis, ' which is the sum and substance of rational prac- . I tice, would be a nosology framed upon such a ■ I basis 1 That the effect of remedies is important as an adjuvant to the study of nosology, maybe ij- admitted, but it can never be allowed to form a^;' part of the historia morbi, much less to assume' the importance of a diagnostic. f 'J -t ' ."‘h N .1^;' : Heads of The following are the heads of a few of the' cases. cases cured under my observation of the iritis - regarded as venereal, which I introduce merely to shew the combination of symptoms. 1. Holton.—Syphilitic eruptions. ; 2. Valienee,—Copper-coloured, elevated, and scaly eruptions on the back and limbs ; had pri- mary sores followed by buboes six months ago. 3. Younger.—Tubercular eruptions on the face, arms, and legs, of a copper colour, with desquamation of the cuticle. Had sores on the integument of the penis a year ago. The sores ' healed, and broke out afresh three or four times : successively. Had no bubo, and reports that no remedies had been employed. 4. Neale.—Secondary symptoms of lues. | 5. Glover.—Venereal eruptions and pains. i 6. Riddington.—Syphilitic ulcer of the throat. Nocturnal pains. ! 7. Topham.—The same.ON IRITIS. 77 ' 8. BroXim.—Chancre followed by bubo six weeks ago. Nocturnal pains. 9. Wyatt.—Syphilitic eruptions and pains. 10. Dudley.—Pains and node of the os frontis; . first the left,and afterwards the right eye affected. 11. Poole.—Eruptions. Ulcerated throat. Nocturnal pains. I have selected the following for detail. CASE. Feh. 8, 1816.-—Joseph Wade, aged 30, was iritis’dur- ; attacked some weeks since wdth inflammation of the left eye. while under salivation fora venereal ^ throat. ulcer of the velum palati, by which the ulcer was healed. The eye has the following appearances. The conjunctiva is generally vascular, but especi- . ally so around the cornea, where the vessels form . a distinct zone. The iris, not altered in colour, i has little if any motion, and the pupil, though not ^ much contracted, is irregular in its circle from adhesive inflammation. Vision dim. Ordered : Hydrarg. submur. gr. ii. opii gr. ss. : f. pil. noc. maneq. sumend.: H. aper. p. r. n. 20.—Mouth moderately sore. Inflammation of the eye subsiding rapidly. Contin. pilulie. March 7.—Discharged cured. Note.—After his discharge Wade returned to his business as a groom, and was attacked with 1 chronic rheumatism, and a relapse of the oph- thalmia ; the latter was superficial, and readily yielded to leeches and purgatives. His pains were relieved by a course of the pulv. ipecac. ' comp, in small doses, and the decoct, sarsap. He attributed these complaints to cold caught in washing his horses’ feet.78 OxM IRITIS. CASE. erupt’ioTs? March 23, 1816.—James Basnell, aged 40, after sore had a soi’c OH the Hps of the urethra five months onthepenis. tt • • i i i t . . ago. He IS not certain whether the medicine he took was mercurial; his mouth was not affected. Three months afterwards an eruption appeared on his breast; this is now generally diffused over the body j it is small, elevated, scaly, and of a pale brown colour. About a month after the ap- pearance of the eruption, the left eye became in- flamed. Topical means were chiefly employed, and the inflammation gradually subsided, but the vision was lost. At present the iris adheres to the opaque capsule of the lens, the pupil is mis- shapen and fixed, and whitish radii are percepti- ble upon the iris converging to the pupil. Three weeks since the right eye inflamed. The con- junctiva is red, and the vessels are most con- densed around the cornea. Upon the iris, which is very vascular, they are seen passing, like rays to a centre, to the contracted pupil. Flakes of lymph appear upon the iris, and there is one re- markable lump which nearly reaches the cornea, and is reddened around its base, as if beginning to be organized. Although the cornea is clear, the humors appear thick, and the vision is much impaired. He has little if any pain from expo- sure to light, but much at night. Ordered: Hyd. submur. gr. i. opii gr.^ f. pil. quater indies sumend. April 1.—Mouth slightly sore. Eruption fa- ding. Inflammation of conjunctiva has sub- sided, the aqueous humor has recovered tran- sparency, and the lymph is much diminished I I < 1 : t ) ■ i i! '■ i i79 ON IRITIS. vation. in bulk. Sight greatly improved. Contin. pilul. et applic. extra, belladonnae per noctem region, supra-orbitali. 20.—The eruption and lymph on the iris have disappeared. The pupil is still irregular, but the eye clear and sound, and vision restored. Discharged. CASE. Sept, 26, 1S16.—Thomas Edmonds, aged 17, had sores on the penis about ten months ago, which healed under mercurial dressings and pills, his mouth being gently affected-for about a month. At this time he had a slight imflain- mation of the right eye, attributed to' a cold, which was succeeded by eruptions in various parts of his body. The ophthalmia increased, attended by dimness of vision and pain in the head, and a crop of warts ma(4e its appearance on the glans penis. For these complaints he took a full course of mercury at Guy’s Hospi- tal, and was discharged free from complaint. After leaving the hospital, he was frequently exposed to the vicissitudes of the weather, and the ophthalmia and eruption recurred. At pre- sent he has phymosis from warts. The con- junctiva of the left eye is very vascular, and on the lids granulated. The iris is much disco- loured, and adhering to the capsule of the lens, which is partially opaque; the pupil is con- tracted and irregular, and several lumps of lymph effused in the anterioi’ chamber, are un- dergoing vascularization ; one in particular, pendulous from the upper border of the pupil, is distinctly organize<l. The eruptions are her- petic, in circumscribed clusters on the arms, Iritis, with eruptions, after sali-80 ON IRITIS. Iritis, with pains, after long and irregular course of mercury. shoulders, and back ; on the face more diffused, but of the same character. They incline to scurf, do not itch, and are of a copper colour. Ordered : Arteriotomia ad Jxvj.: Ung. hydr. Oct. 5.—Mouth has been affected two days. Eruptions are altered in appearance. Conjunc- tiva has lost its excessive vascularity. Lymph reduced in bulk, but more coloured. Applic. belladonna. 9.—The lymph nearly absorbed. Capsule completely opaque, and vision extinct. Erup- tions faded. - 16.'—^Lymph absorbed. The belladonna has had no effect upon the pupil. 23.—Eruptions have disappeared. Thepliy- mosis is reduced by an injection of the lot. nigra. Warts to be excised, and the surface washed with the lot. sulphat. cupri. 26.—Slight relapse of inflammation of the conjunctiva. Applicentur hirud. palpebris. Ordered to wash up. 30.—The eye free from inflammation. Opaque capsule becoming vascular. Discharged. 1 CASE. November 7, 1816.—Robert Hughes, aged 23, had a chancre la.-rt March, which was healed under a course of mercurial pills and an ap- plication of the lot. nigra. A bubo existing at the same time disappeared. Two months after the healing of the chancre, he was attacked with pains in his joints, which have continued till this time. He has been taking mercury irregularly since March, and his mouth has been frequently81 ON IRITIS. affected, notwithstanding his habitual exposure to the weather. Three weeks since, his right eye became inflamed, and the inflammation still exists. Besides unusual, diffused, and excessive redness of the conjunctiva, a copious deposit of soft flocculent lymph has taken place in the an- terior chamber, and appears mixed with the aque- ous humor. The iris is clouded, and there is also a slight nebula of the cornea. He complains of violent deep-seated pain in the eyeball, orbit, forehead and temples. Light falling on the eye gives much pain. He has eruptions on his arms, back and breast, but no pains in his bones. Ordered: Arteriotomia ad Jxvi.: Ung. hydr. 12.—Mouth slightly affected. Pain abated. > 20.—Mouth very sore. Eye much improved in all respects; pain of the eye and joints has left him j sees much better. Eruptions fading. Dec. 4.—Continues improving. 11.—Ordered to wash up. Vision good. Pupil irregular, notwithstanding the use of bel- ladonna. CASE. January 30, 1817.—Elizabeth Scarlett, aged 18, had sores on the pudendum and a bubo in each groin fourteen months ago, for which she rubbed in mercurial ointment for five and thirty successive days. She continued free from com- plaint until three months since, when she was attacked with pain in the joints, exacerbating at night, and eruptions in various parts of her body. Shortly after the eyes inflamed, with the left of which she has been unable to see for several G Iritis with pains and eruptions after sali- vation-82 ON IRITIS. ! weeks. The iris of this eye is deeply inflamed, a zone of chocolate-coloured lymph surrounding the pupil; and eruptions of a dingy red colour are sparingly diffused over the face, arms, back, thighs, and legs, commencing in small white vesicles, which break, and are succeeded by reddish brown laminae of cuticle. Ordered: Ung. hydrarg. Applicentur hirud : vj palpeb. Plumb, super- acet. 3j. aquae Jvi. M. f. collyrium. Feb. 10.—Mouth sore. Ophthalmia and erup- tions declining. 19.—Mouth very sore during the last week. Pains much relieved and eruptions faded. Vi- sion of the affected eye is permanently impaired, ; but the lymph is taken up, and it is quite free from inflammation. March 12.—Discharged cured. CASE. Iritis with Jaiiuary 30,1817.—William Warren, aged 26, rrupti^s eighteen months ago had primary sores, which co*^I^seof healed under mercury taken for seven weeks, mercury, were succecded by pains in the elbow and knee joints. Two months since contracted a second infection, for which he again took pills for several weeks j the sores healed, but he was exposed to cold, and his present complaints ap- peared, ushered in by febrile symptoms. His face, hairy scalp, arms and hips are covered with a distinct pustular eruption of a very pale . rose colour in the face, but darker in the other j parts. The conjunctiva of the left eye is very generally vascular, the aqueous humor slightlyON IRITIS. 83 turbid, and vision is impaired. The iris is free, blit the inflammation is deep seated. He has pains in the elbows and knees, which are worst at an early hour of the morning. Health unimpaired. Ordered; H. aper: Acid, nitros. d. gtt. xx. ter die sumend : Pil. hydra, g. iii. extr. rhei g. v. M. f pil. om. nocte maneq. sumend. Feb, 5.—Little alteration. 20.—Mouth not sensibly affected. Eye much improved. Eruptions disappearing. Contin. medic. March 1.—Relapse of inflammation. The sclerotic and choroid are now evidently affected. Eruptions gone, leaving small red indentations. 12.—Inflammation has subsided. Pupil not insensible to light. Vision pretty good, but is troubled with muscffi volitantes. 22.—The pupil is contracted, and there is a slight capsular opacity. Extr. belladonnse, 29.—Since the use df belladonna, the iris is become inflamed. The pupil is of an irregular oblong shape, and lymph is copiously effused around its margin, with a distinct tubercle on the lower edge. No pain in the head. Omit- tantur medic, prescript; Hydrarg. submur. giss. opii g^. M. f. pil. ter die sumend. This man was discharged cured after ptyalism of three weeks. Vision good. Pupil slightly irregular. The iritis first described, which often super- Treatment venes upon indecisive or mistaken treatment of the inflamed conjunctiva, or upon some impru- dent use or exposure of the eye in this state, is • cured by large and repeated blood-letting, and c 2ON IRITIS. 84 active purgatives. All the other forms of iritis, whether primary or secondary, simple or speci- fic, require the constitutional use of mercury for their cure, without exception. This may be boldly stated without reference to the origin of the disease, and I should be quite at a loss to name any other disease which so certainly, and so rapidly, yields to a stated remedy. The only cases, of a vast number that have fallen under my observation, in which mercury disappointed my expectations, have been those of very elderly or debilitated persons, who were incapable of bearing the remedy; for whoever has seen much of the use of this mineral, must be aw^are, that a certain degree of power is required to enable it to produce its salutary efiects, although I have observed, that in these cases, prudently managed, a less quantity will suffice. Cases frequently occur of syphilis, combined with scrofula, where mer- cury cannot be borne until the system has been prepared by tonic medicines and regimen. I have been repeatedly obliged to adopt this plan with patients before sending them to the foul wards, and with the best effect. In one remarkable case, the patient, a sailor, whose body was covered with elevated, dense, and dry scabs, lamellated, and resembling horn, was compelled to substitute the nitric acid for the blue pill three times succes- sively before he could bear the continued use of mercury, under which he at length obtained a cure. Of this fact, if it were necessary, I could mention many other examples; more than one in which not only the affected organ but life itself has been lost from the patient’s inability to sup-in iritis. 85 ON IRITIS. port the remedy. In such cases the mercury should at first be given in very reduced quantity, and remitted or gradually augmented according to the patient’s strength. The beneficial use of mercury in iritis, is an observation of but few years’ date*. Its use was still more recently confined to the cases which were combined with traces of the syphilitic poi- son. But averse as are European practitioners, from education or prejudice, or both, for they are not always unconnected, to introduce mercury into the system during a state of active inflam- mation, it is now by a multitude of facts incon- testably established as a remedy of unfailing effi- cacy in the most acute form and in every variety of inflammation of the iris. The ascertainment and promulgation of this fact are due to the infir- mary of this metropolis for diseases of the eye, and in the catalogue of modern contributions to medical science, except the practice of vaccina- tion, I know of none entitled to rank before it. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that in the active and early stage of acute inflammation, blood-letting and purgatives should be premised and repeated as circumstances indicate. If the adhesive inflammation is already far advanced before the mercurial action is induced, opacity of the adhering capsule cannot be prevented, nor can such opacity be removed, and hence a motive to its early employment. * Dr. Beer, of Vienna, in a work entitled Principles of the Diseases of the Eye/’ published in 1813, describes as distinct aflections a syphilitic and an arthritic iritis. The former is only cured, he observes, by the cure of the lues, viz. by mer- cury; ihe latter, by the cure of the gout. Jtecont em- ployment of mercury86 ON IRITIS. Its opposite effects, how reconciled. Cupping the temples is a mode of blood-letting in this disease which I have long preferred from observation of its effects, to the opening and ul- timate division of the temporal artery. The invariable consequence of dividing a pulsating artery being to increase the impulse of the cir- culation in the collaterals, is certainly a reason why this mode of drawing blood should be fol- lowed by a less permanent benefit. My very in- telligent friend Mr. George Young stated to me that he had several times observed arteriotomy to be followed by an aggravation of the ophthal- mia, and he ottered this argument in explanation of the fact. To those w'ho have observed the unquestion- able tendency of patients to this disease during and subsequent to the use of mercury, its double character of bane and antidote must appear a pa- radox; but considering the opposite conditions, both of the system and the part, in health and in disease, I think the seeming contradiction ceases. I see no difficulty in understanding how the sound iris should become inflamed and its vessels throw out lymph—and on the other hand, the vessels of the inflamed iris recover their healthy action, and the lymph become absorbed, under the operation of the same agent. A sound part presents at least as marked a dis- tinction to a part diseased, as the opposite states of diseased parts present to each other. Yet we see deposition and absorption going on at one and the same time in different parts of the same system, healthfully if according to their respective need; the reverse, if otherwise; even sound parts, not to speak of morbid deposi-87 ON IRITIS. tions, reduced by absorption and deep ulcers filling with granulation—nay, who has not seen one ulcer cicatrizing, and another sloughing, on the penis or pudendum of the same indivi- dual ? The effects of local applications place this fact in a more striking point of view. We inject a transparent ulcer upon the cornea with a solution of caustic; lymph is thrown out, and it heals. We inject the cornea rendered opaque by a redundant deposition of lymph, v/ith the same solution ; the lymph is absorbed, and it becomes clear. Now in either of these cases a contrary effect would be produced, if the re- medy were resorted to at an improper time—- viz.: the ulcer would increase, and the opacity become more dense. But there, is another, and perhaps more con- sistent explanation of these phenomena, since it does not require that the remedy should possess opposite modes of action. It is this: the changes which parts undergo in the commencement of the healing process, are not in fact opposed and dissimilar, as the conditions of the parts appear to be. The absorbents, for example, are set to work to level the thick, abrupt, callous edges of ulcers, and thus to prepare or put them in a state for healing. This, it will be admitted, is as obvious an effect of mercury as the absorption of simple depositions without laesion. The granulation from the bed of the ulcer is an after-process— an action of healing which, follows as a natural effect of tlie salutary change which has taken place in the circumference. Thus, the filling up of the breach is an act of the constitution,88 ON IRITIS. Case of iri- tis follow- ing three courses of mercury; after an in- terval cured by it. and may be regarded as the remote, not the direct consequence of the stimulus of mer- cury. For myself, however, I do not consider the alterative action of mercury to be limited to one order of vessels. The two cases which I subjoin are among the most remarkable of those which led me to the opinion, that the disease induced by mercury is afterwards cured by it. | t CASE. Mr. , a barrister, applied to an eminent surgeon on the 20th May, 1815, for a swelling in one of his groins, for which a liniment was prescribed. He was assured it was not venereal. 30.—An excoriation upon the prepuce of doubtful appearance. Entered upon a course of mercury, which was continued for five weeks. The excoriation was healed in two days. JulylQ.—The swelling having suppurated and broke after a trifling discharge, healed. Began the bark. Aug. 21.—Throat became sore, and a small rash appeared on the skin. A second course of mercury was begun upon, aided by the warm bath. The rash in a few days had disappeared. The patient complained of great pains, in the legs, with much general debility. Sept. 23.—Throat continued sore, but was not now considered venereal. Mercury was dis- continued. To take sarsaparilla, with carbonate of soda. Oct.l.—Consultation. The surgeon now called89 ON IRITIS. 'in, a practitioner of the highest reputation, at once expressed his decided opinion that the case was not venereal, and recommended the sarsa- parilla and soda to be continued, with the addi- tion of a gargle of rose honey and infusion, with alum and tincture of myrrh. 10.—The compound ipecacuanha powder or- dered, and a bread and milk poultice to the throat, 14.—Throat becoming daily worse, a third course of mercury was commenced under the direction of the surgeon first consulted, and a sublimate gargle. Persevered in this course for six weeks. November 30,—Began to take decoction of sarsaparilla with small doses of tartar emetic. December \ —Eyes inflamed. A collyrium of sunlimate and lime water. 27.—Consultation with an eminent physician. —Bark decoction with extract, conii and pii. submur. hydrargyri. Jan. 3, 1816.—Sight of right eye began to clear j left deprived of vision. Two drops of the vin. opii to be instilled into the left eye at night. Leeches to the temples; blisters behind the ears. 215^.—The extr. conii gradually increased in quantity. Bark discontinued. Pulse this day 130. Bad cough and incessant spitting. February 5th.—The muriatic acid has been exhibited with some advantage. Left eye con- tinues quite dark. Leeches directed to be ap- plied to the eyelids. All medicine discontinued. At this juncture I was consulted. The throat was affected with a diffused redness, and the 61 I 90 ON IRITIS. velum palati covered by a thin crust or coating of lymph, roughening the surface. Patient had great difficulty in shewing tlie throat, which was irritable on exposure to the air, and was almost unable to swallow. Left eye disorganized: the an- terior chamber obliterated by coadhesion of the iris and cornea. Right eye in a very advanced stage of internal inflammation, verging on disor- ganization. Iris furred with lymph ; no motion of the pupifj conjunctiva crowded w'ith vessels of a purple ''Colour; vision greatly obscured. Patient very weak and irritable, has a rapid and thready pulse, and perspires copiously. Sth.—I advised immediate recourse to mer- cury. This was stoutly resisted by the physi- cian and surgeon in attendance, on the ground that the patient’s coiflplaints were all referrible to this medicine. My opinion of its necessity was not shaken, but it was agreed to wait a few days. The muriatic acid prescribed, and a fo- mentation of poppy. 13//i.—The right eye considerably worse. Pa- tient almost blind. My advice was now followed. R Hydr. c creta gr. v : submur. hydr. gr. ^ M. f. p. bis die sumend. Leeches to be repeated. An issue to be set in the nape of the neck, and to be kept discharging. 20th.—Mouth has become slightly sore in less than a week. Inflammation greatly reduced j vi- sion returned and gradually improving. 2^th.—The eye having rapidly recovered, the mercury was discontinued. The extr. sar- sap. with the decoction was ordered to be taken freely.ON IRITIS. 91 SOth March.—Throat well. Health greatly re-established. Appetite daily returning. Sleep undisturbed. Patient gaining flesh. August 1817.—I lately saw this gentleman, who has had no relapse. The right eye and its functions are perfect, and he is in full health. CASE. S. C. ast. 24, a young woman of respectable appearance and connections, was the subject of severe pain, affecting the forepart of the head and left temple; pains in the calves of her legs accompanied with cramp, and generally disor- dered health, which she attributed to a neglected cold. After much unavailing treatment direct- ed to relieve the pains in the head, she was com- pelled to quit service, and in the month of De- cember to come into the hospital. Here she was put upon a course of blue pill, and leeches were applied to the temple twice a week. Her gums were at this time a little tender, and she com- j plained of tasting the pill, but ptyalism was f never induced, although she continued to take the pill three times a day without intermission for three months. On her admission the right eye was slightly inflamed, but it soon recovered. Two montljs alter her admission she took a severe cold by sleeping under an open window, and the consequence was an inflammation of the I riglit eye. This was also superficial, being re- moved by a single application of leeches to the temple. She quitted the hospital greatly re- lieved of her pains, but not cured. In about slx.^'^weeks afterwards, she again Case of iri- tis, fol- lowing the continued use of mer- cury, and afterwards cured by it.ON IRITIS. took a severe cold, which was followed by en- larged tonsil and sublingual glands, sore throat, and a fresh inflammation of the right eye; a rising also appeared upon the tibia of the right leg, a S little below the tubercle, which was painful, but the skin not discoloured. ' She applied to me a fortnight after tins time, i|j for an advanced inflammation of the interior tunics of the eye. The pupil was contracted, irregular, and a very large mass of brown 1 lymph covered the semi-diameter of the iris | next the temple, projecting so as to occupy I more than one third of the aqueous chamber. ; The cornea and humors were hazy. The ; sclerotic conjunctiva had a leaden colour, and the eye-ball appeared to have lost its spheroidal shape, as if from interstitial absorption of the vitreous humor. She sulfered severe hemicra- nia on the same side; her strength was greatly impaired, and with the affected eye she had scarcely any vision. I took her into the hospi- tal, and after freely bleeding the temple and eyelids by cupping and leeches, prescribed the calomel and opium pill;—it disagreed with her , bowels; the sublimate was given in frequent *' doses; and the extr. hyoscyami night and morn- ing. The mouth soon became slightly sore, and the inflammation gradually subsided. The lymph was rapidly absorbed, the sight daily became ; clearer under the use of the belladonna. The | swelling on the tibia had now become larger 1 and acutely painful, and as it had evidently i suppurated, I directed it to be laid open, which i operation was followed by an attack of hys- | teria.ON IRITIS. October 1.—The eye and vision are surpris- ingly restored, the pupil clear and much im- proved by the belladonna. Her health is also materially better, but the leg is affected with a diffused inflammation, of an erysipelatous cha- racter, accompanied with much tumefaction and tension, indicating the presence of a collection of matter beneath the periosteum, which her timidity would not permit to be divided. This young woman assured me, in a manner that I could not reconcile with the belief that she ut- tered a falsehood, that she had never known an individual of the other sex. It was evident that lier feelings were deeply wounded by the sus- picion. [^SecondEdition.—March 15^, 1818. The sub- ject of this observation has been confined by ill health with little intermission since the last re- port. Her chief complaint has been a chronic inflammatory affection of the liver, accompanied with great disorder and irregularity of bowels. The periosteal inflammation was succeeded by a most unhealthy and intractable ulcer, often acutely painful, and invariably fluctuating with the state of her digestive system. The eye has continued sound.] How are these and similar cases to be explain- ed, but by supposing the medicine, now salutary, to have been formerly deleterious ? And this may be admitted. Of mercury, as a remedy, it may truly be said, ‘ nisi paret, imperat.* We see daily examples of its rhischieyous effects; and we re- fer them either to the quantity exhibited, the form employed, or the precautions neglected;94 ON IRITIS. Modus operand! of mercur}'. without alw^ays sufficiently regarding the texture of the part inflamed, the character of the in- flammation, and the actual state of the consti- tution But whether the action of mercury, by rous- ing the absorbent vessels, serves as a vehicle to the morbid poison, and modifies its effects on the system—or whether this be a simple inflamma- tion excited by mercury, as we observe fever to be—or an inflammation peculiar to a cachexia, which its use has engendered, the fact that the disease yields to its discreet exhibition cannot be controverted. Nor is its efficacy less in cases to which no suspicion of syphilis or mercury in the system can attach; for example, where the iritis is obviously an extension of unchecked superficial ophthalmia, a very frequent case; or where the affection is at first proper to the iris, the external inflammation being secondary and sympathetic. From the facts which I have stated, one or two inferences are deducible, too important to be overlooked. 1st. The view, which, in the cases of iritis, we are enabled to take of the operation of mer- cury upon a part undergoing the adhesive in- flammation, ought not to be confined to this case; it must be capable of extension and application to other organs in a similar condition. It af- fords demonstration the most palpable of its power to alter the action of the extreme vessels, which are the instruments of morbid changes in * See Observations on Phymosis in another part of this volume.95 ON IRITIS. ' all organs of the body. Its effect on mem- branes generally, especially the skin, is another proof of this. Its action on parts disposed to adhesive inflammation, as the serous membranes, is more marked than upon those which tend to the suppurative action; as the mucous. But for the gonorrhoea, in the army and on the conti- nent, the sublimate is still generally employed, and often with success. The effect of mercury as an application, is to excite a brisker action of the vascula minima, and thus it stimulates indolent and ill condi- tioned ulcers to assume a new and florid granu- lating surface, and a healthy secretion. Upon a tumor, whether solid or fluid, the indirect effect of this remedy is to promote its removal by stimulating the absorbents of the neighbouring part. The brisker action of the extreme arteries induces a corresponding ac- tivity of the absorbents, for in proportion as the exhalants are unloaded, it is well known that the avidity of the absorbents is increased. It is common to see people grow fat after a course of mercury. The effect of mercury to excite a new and peculiar action in the capillary system, is as marked upon the constitution as upon the part. It first quickens the heart and pulsating arte- ries, and is a stimulus in this stage which enfee- bled habits but ill support. When it has enter- ed the system, the febrile irritability is allayed, and a general tranquillity prevails, for all the se- cretions of the body are manifestly increased, the biliary and cutaneous especially. The absorb- 8ON IRITIS. 96 Not specifi- callj' anti- sypbilitic. ent vessels are next reciprocally excited to in- creased activity; and where its effect is salutary, it is at this time that the patient experiences a relief as from a burthen, a return of appetite and digestive power, and a lithesomeness almost con- veying a sense of renovation. 2d, Without further urging the inquiry, whe- ther mercury ever induces or is concerned in in- ducing the inflammation which it unquestion- ably cures, the fact that it acts with equal ra- pidity and effect upon all cases of inflamed iris, whatever their origin, seems to me to shew that the idea of a specific anti-syphilitic virtue is an erroneous one. It arrests the in- flammation produced by the absorption and se- cretion of a poison, as it arrests inflammations which have no such origin; and tlie after- effects are, in both cases, attributable to the stimulus, which, having entered the blood, it communicates to the extreme vessels. The factor of the breath and the discolouration of silver applied to the surface, shews that it ac- tually permeates the minutest orders of vessels, and the phenomena, of its operation appear to me to depend essentially upon the change which it produces in their action. The following interesting communication was addressed to me by my valued friend Dr. FalTe, after a perusal, at my request, of the foregoing paper; and knowing the esteem in which his opinions are deservedly held, I gladly avail my- self of his permission to present it to the public:—-ON IRITIS. Dear Travers, I am glad to travel a part of the way with you as a former colleague, for whom I entertain so high a regard. We are mainly indebted to John Hunter for directing our attention to the action of the ca- pillary arteries, a knowledge essential to medi- cine and surgery, considered as a science. To be able to present to the mind the actual con- dition of the capillary arteries of an inflamed or- ; gan, and the changes which are taking place at their extremities, is to know the disease ; and to be able to alter, to regulate, and to controul that action by remedies, is to cure it. Whilst the principal tendency of that series of remedies, which we comprise under the received term, antiphlogistic-, from general blood-letting down- wards, is to diminish the force of the heart and arteries ; it is in a peculiar manner the operation of mercury on the whole capillary arterial system to change its action, but not indefinitely. The gentlest action of mercury is to correct and re- store the secretions proper to the alimentary canal to their natural condition, and, as by a charm, to dissolve the functional disorder of dis- tant organs sympathizing with the first passages. This is an operation which so exactly accords with the intention of nature, that no morbid ac- tions ought to result from the remedy itself when thus used. But it is quite another thing when it is necessary to arrest organic disease. The remedy itself produces a train of morbid actions. Not to dwell on what is well known, suffer me to direct your attention to the condition of the H98 ON IRITIS. extreme arteries when fully excited by mercury. It is an erythema—an action which essentially weakens the cohesion of parts: but the adhesive inflammation is so exactly opposed to this, that both cannot be the result of mercurial action. From the moment that I commenced the study of morbid anatomy, I directed my attention to the adhesive inflammation, because it opened to my view the most usual process of disorganiza- tion in the viscera. This is not the place to enter into the pro- gress of my research respecting this important fact, or to shew that I applied the practice to the chief organs of the body before the interesting changes on the iris particularly engaged my attention. Suffice it to say, that I had been led, from repeated observation of the adhesive inflammation of various tex- tures being cured by the mercurial action, to receive it as one of the general laws of its ope- ration to change that arterial action on which the effusion of coagulable lymph depends, and consequently to arrest all the subsequent changes which flow from this process. Doubtless, there are exceptions to this general law. The class of tumors properly so called, form an immense and lamentable exception to it; and scrofula, in the same proportion that it has impaired the restorative powers of the constitution, forms another not less considerable. The extent and duration of the adhesive inflammation itself forms a third; for all reasonable expectation of success, even from the use of the most powerful remedy, is founded on, and pre-supposes a struc- 799 ON IRITIS. ture perfect enough to effect the salutary changes; but it is the actual organization of the part which suffers by the continuance of this process, and thus unfits it to effect them ; I take this to have been the reason of the failure of mer- cury in the case of Chapman, described and il- lustrated by figures in “ Saunders on the Dis- . eases of the Eye.” The following is a parallel case as to the failure of the remedy, although not as to the cause of that failure:— In September, 1817, a very delicate female, aged 25, suffered an unusually severe and obsti- nate attack of pleuritis. The disease yielded only to repeated, general, and topical bleeding, and to the frequent application of blisters ; but the function of respiration was not set perfectly free tilljanuary, 1817, when the pericranium of the right side of the head became exquisitely painful. Various remedies, both external and internal, were tried without producing any per- manent benefit till the month of May, when a gentle but regular course of mercury, which she had previously resisted from her aversion to it, was commenced. About the middle of the month, before any mercurial action was apparent from the use of the blue pill, she complained of pains of the left tibia, and a node appeared just below its head, the tonsils became deeply ulce- rated in several places, and her face, body, and extremities, were pretty extensively covered with a copper-coloured eruption. Her husband was now questioned, and acknowledged that he had been diseased, and that he had also in- fected her in the month of July, 1816 j that it H 2100 ON IRITIS. was considered to be only a gonorrha'a, yet that his surgeon kept him two months under a mer- curial course, during which his mouth was sore ; that he had never had any secondary symptom ; that his wife also submitted to a mercurial course, but so very partially, that her mouth was never made sore. As soon as those facts were stated, she was directed to rub in daily one drachm of the strong mercurial ointment, and in four days she was excessively salivated, and the function of the heart was so exceedingly disturbed, that it became essential to omit the use of mercury. The sores, however, on the tonsils, healed, the eruption faded and disappeared, the node on the tibia was absorbed, and the pains of the head subsided. As the mercurial action declined, which it did during a fortnight, the pupil of the right eye dilated,and the vision became impaired. Leeches were applied to the palpebrae, and a blister to the right temple. The soreness of the mouth and throat disappeared rather sud- denly, and the right eye immediately inflamed; lymph was deposited on the iris, and became organized. Whilst I was compelled to wait till she had power to bear the repetition of the mercurial action, the iritis advanced, and the eye became amaurotic; for ordinary means had no influence here. As it was now certain that disorganization would take place if mercury were not administered, its action was again risked. The second course was commenced early in June, by rubbing in one drachm of the strong mercurial ointment daily. Her mouth was but slightly aflfected at the end of seven-101 ON IRlTL^o ' teen clays, when she fell into so violent and obstinate a mercurial colic, with tenesmus and uterine irritation ; her heart palpitated so much, the arterial action was so feeble, and her ema- ciation so considerable, that I was compelled to withdraw the influence of the only means of saving the eye, hoping, at least, that the tran- quillity of the organ was secured ; for the iritis was nearly subdued, and there was some mani- festation of returning sensibility of the retina; but at the end of a fortnight, when the mercu- rial .action had subsided, the inflammation of the. internal tunics of the eye returned with an extent and duration of suffering which has rarely been exceeded. Now the disorganiza- tion was progressive, the anterior and posterior chambers were filled with lymph, and all sensi- bility of the retina was lost. In one week from the re-commencement of the inflammation, the disorganization of the eye was completed. From the general appearance of the sclerotic coat, and a distinct pointing at one part of it, joined to the excess of coagulable lymph in the ante- rior chamber, it seemed to me, that, contrary to my former experience, the iritis had terminated in suppuration. The sufierings of the patient were so great, that, on a consultation with Mr. Lawrence, an incision was made into the poste- ^^rior chamber by that gentleman. No discharge of pus attended the operation ; and this case confirms the opinion, that iritis terminates in the adhesive stage. In this respect it precisely corresponds with Fig. G. Plate 1. in the work above cited, representing an eye disorganized by102 ON IRITIS. syphilitic inflammation of the iris, on which you performed the same operation. In that case the eye becanle tranquil; but in this the sufferings of the patient were only aggravated by the ope- ration. The inflammation of the internal tunics continued unabated for two mdhths, in spite of every palliative that could be used. Even opium, the refuge of the miserable under incurable dis- ease, failed, after a time, to mitigate her suffer- ings. The morbid action gradually spent itself, and the remnant of the eye has been tranquil for the last month. Is iritis an example of pure adhesive inflam- mation ?—I consider that it is; for if the case be left to nature, this is its tendency and ter- mination. Is the mercurial action an erythema or an adhesive inflammation of those parts on which it falls ?—If the former, which I believe it to be, no two actions can be more opposed. Are sloughing ulcers cured or aggravated by* the mercurial action in which the establishment of adhesive or phlegmonous inflammation is essential to the preservation of the part ? Accept an example or two. Mr. B. was under mercu- rial action for a chancre on the glans penis; an erythematous inflammation surrounded the ul- cer, and the part sloughed ; contiguous portions of the glans died successively. As soon as this destructive inflammation was set up, the fur- ther use of mercury was suspended, and two ounces of the powder of the best Peruvian bark was given daily. The granulating process wasON IRITIS. established before the whole of the glans was lost. You know that merciiiy would never have occasioned the deposition of lymph, nor the organization of that lymph, so as to heal by granulation in this alarming case. A child was brought to me with one eye lost by slough, and the other inflamed, with nothing remarkable in its appearance except a small opaque yellowish spot on the cornea. A mild antiphlogistic treatment was prescribed; but just before the patient was dismissed, the mother told me that the child had some sores about the pudendum and nates. On examination several small ul- cers appeared, all of which were in a sloughing condition. This served me as a key to the con- dition of the capillary arteries. ,The extract of bark was freely given. In eight and forty hours every ulcer on the body had a clean surface. The ophthalmia declined, and the eye was saved. Need I ask you what would have been the effect of the mercurial action in this case ? I have uniformly regarded the mercurial ac- tion as one of the most effectual means of ar- resting the disorganizing process of adhesive inflammation, whether of the iris or of any other texture of the body. To the liver in this state of disease, (hepatitis) it has been long applied,, except that some have had their fears about com- mencing it too early; and through this delay have probably lost the opportunity of preventing suppuration. In cynanche trachealis it has been more recently used with success. In the last stage of marasmus, from nodes of the large bones, I applied it with success in 1805, andON IRITIS. 104 since that period, with equal success, to adhe- sive inflammation of the pericranium, both where it has been entitled, pseudo-syphilitic, and where it was neither syphilitic nor bearing any resem- blance to syphilis; before and since that period t with marked advantage, in arterial congestion, and even in organic changes of the brain; in 1809 successfully in carditis from acute rheu- matism, and since that period, in chronic car- ditis. Believe me, dear Travers, Yours, with sincere regard, J. R. FARRE. Charterhouse Square^ November 8, 1817. Whether the mercurial action is always re- stricted to the state denominated erythema, and never advances to the adhesive stage of in- flammation, is a point which I cannot take upon myself to decide. The facts which I have ad- duced seem to militate against this hypothesis, and a consideration of the. case related by Dr. Farre, does not, I confess, induce me to alter my opinion that the iritis is frequently a direct consequence of the mercurial action. It appears that the eye was attacked with inflammation, for the first time, after an excessive salivation, by which all the syphilitic symptoms were perma- nently removed, and that lymph was deposited on the iris and becaffle organized. {Third Edition, July 1, 1818.—The follow- ing case, shewing that the effusion of lymph mayON IRITIS. take place during the full action of mercury on the system, is not the only example of the fact which has met my notice since the publication of this paper. CASE. Sophia Smith, aged 24, of a delicate habit, was admitted on the 22d of January, 1818, with an inflamed ulcer on the outer ankle of the right leg. On the 28th, a diflused copper-coloured erup- tion, which she stated to have existed for some months, was observed, and upon inquiry it appeared that in August preceding she had been submitted to a course of mercury for what were considered secondary venereal symptoms, viz. sore throat and pains; and that after these had yielded to the remedy, the eruption in question was first perceived. On the 12th of March, the eruption continu^- ing, she was ordered as follows : Pil. hydrarg. submur : comp. gr. v. omni nocte : Decoct, sarsae lb. j. quotidie. On the 23d of March a slight inflammation of the conjunctiva of the right eye took place, and in two days the vessels had formed a zone around the cornea, the eruptions having dis- appeared. Ten ounces of blood were drawn from the arm, and she was freely purged. March 30th.—Complains of pain in the tem- ple, extending towards the occiput; pupil di- lated, and irregular; humors muddy, and vision imperfect. Admov. hirud. vi. temp : Rep. haust. purg.106 ON IRITIS. April 1 st'—Pain and dimness of vision have increased, and at the upper part of the iris are seen numerous red vessels extending from the ciliary border to the pupil. No effusion is visible. Hyd, submur. gr. ij : opii gr. ss. om. nocte. 4th. Pain continues, accompanied by into- lerance of light, and the vascularity increases. V. S. ad 5xyj.—Hyd. submur. gr. ij : opii gr. ^ ter die. 6th. Gums slightly affected; appearance of the eye improving. 8th. Mouth very sore, but the vessels of the conjunctiva remain turgid. Hirud. iv. statim. Sumat pil. bis die. 9th. Vascularity somewhat increased, and at the upper margin of the iris a mass of lymph is apparent: submaxillary glands very tumid, with much salivation and soreness of mouth. 11th. Deposit of lymph larger and appears vascular; a portion is also observed at the bottom of the anterior chamber. Contin. pil. Rep. hirud. 1.5th. Lymph becoming slowly absorbed; copious ptyalism. 22nd. Lymph completely absorbed; pupil slightly irregular; iris sluggish, and vision still imperfect. The pills to be gradually disconti- nued.] Since this paper was written, I attended an elderly lady, the subject of iritis of the right eye, cutaneous eruptions, and rheumatic pains, which yielded readily to a very slight ptyalism. Three weeks after the cure of the iritis, she was attacked with an inflammation, precisely107 ON IRITIS. resembling the former, in the left eye, and not- withstanding a slight paralytic affection of the right side, I persisted in the plan before pur- sued, diminishing the quantity of mercury one half, and at the same time exhibiting a light tonic; the inflammation yielded as speedily as before. Whether sloughing sores are cured or aggra- vated by mercury, is an inquiry to which it is not difficult to reply, but which does not appear to me to be fairly connected with the question at issue. It will not be denied that ulcers often granulate even luxuriantly under the mercurial action. I have seen a rapidly destructive ulcet on the penis arrested by mercury, to which bark gave no check, but opium is a remedy on which I place more reliance in progressive sloughing. The cutaneous erythema in some well marked cases which have fallen under my observation, has been produced by a very small quantity of mercury, and with such a state I have never seen the iritis combined, which on the contrary usually follows a larger or longer use of that mi- neral. It is a rare case, and is produced by opium, arsenic, and other substances as well as mercury. I am quite aware, that the facts which I have stated in this paper admit of different conclu- sions. Some may incline to consider the iritis after mercury as casual, and not essentially de- pending upon its use. Others may be unwilling to yield their belief of the presence of syphilis in the system, for which they will conclude that the remedy had been ineffectually administered.ON IRITIS. 108 The subject is obscure, and an earnest desire to promote the investigation of it is perhaps the best apology 1 can offer for submitting it in so unfinished a state to the Profession. The annexed paragraph shews, upon the highest continental authority, that the use of mercury in iritis was till of late but impedectly understood. “ If the surgeon has treated the ophthal- mia according to the hitherto mentioned in- dications, and the same does not }ield, or if none of these appear, then is he justified in re- sorting to empirical means. These are means, the efficacy of which, in obstinate inflammations of the eye, experience has proved j but in the use of which the surgeon has often to neglect indications and contra-indications, One of the most important,remedies of this kind is mercury: that potent remedy which has a particular, nearly a specific power in inflammations of vari- ous kinds, but particularly in inflammations of the eye. Never is it usejul as long as there is an indication for blood-letting. Are there impu- rities in the first passage^ or after sufficient blood- letting, is the inflammation still vehement ? it may be given in such a form that it may operate as a purge. Is the eye very sensible, the body of the patient very irritable, or does the mercury excite too much diarrhoea, the mercury may be given with opium. Is the patient weak, the eye pain- less, relaxed, red, moist, or is the pain periodical, it is adviseable to give it with bark. (Warner on109 ON IRITIS. the Eye.)—The opium is one of the most powerful Tiieans. It is best given in connection with mer- cury^ at morning and evening a bolus of one or two grains of calomel and half or a whole grain of opium.’* Richter’s Anfangsgriinde der Wundarzneykunst, Band 3, $ 73. The following is an extract from the very va- luable and interesting observations of Mr. Rose on the treatment of syphilis without mercury, published since the first edition of this work, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii. part 2. The good effects of that medicine (mercury) cannot be more beautifully illustrated than in this disease. The deposition and organization of lymph is so rapid, that before the cure was effected by other means, (which it probably al- ways might be,) the powers of vision would often be permanently impaired. This is confirm- ed by the numerous cases of closed pupil and of opaque capsule, which are met with from the neglect of the disease. “ To prevent any risk of this nature, I had re- course to a little mercury, whenever inflamma- tion of the internal tunics of the eye was deci- dedly established. In several cases, along with different eruptions, there appeared a tendency to it, but it was checked by antiphlogistic remedies, except in the two last, before any lymph was effused; and in these the quantity of calomel which was given, could not be supposed to have produced a permanent cure, if they had 8ON IRITIS. 110 been really venereal. This they probably were not. The sores in the last case were quite superficial, and the account of the primary symp- toms in the other, was very confused.** I'rhATi*: . n rr/;. 4 v' ■-fc, fe’-'; ‘fi; J^/y, J.in EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI, Different appearances of Iritis. Fig, 1. Represents the eyes of a woman who was the subject of eruptions and joint pains, and who had been long under the irregular action of merciiry. The disease as here de- picted is chronic, the violence of the inflam- mation has passed away, the pupillary por- tion is in either eye loaded with masses of lymph, which are in a degree organized; the figure of the pupil is lost, and the vision is greatly impaired. Under the continued gentle action of mercury, the deposit was nevertheless so far absorbed as nearly to re- store the shapeliness of the pupil, though it remained permanently fixed, and the vision was considerably restored. The circum- scribed tubercular eruption seen on the forehead was thinly scattered over the arms and other parts of the body. Fig, 2. Is an idiopathic iritis not allied to sy- philis, and wholly independent of the mer- curial action. The zone is strongly marked, the pupil contracted and misshapen, but without any external appearance of lymph. Fig, 3. Is a secondary iritis. The onyx is of pus as its figure demonstrates, and is derived from an interstitial ulcer of the cornea, which had opened into the anterior chamber. This does not admit of graphical delinea- tion. The internal ulcer of the cornea is f112 EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI. in my observation the only source of puru lent onyx or hypopion. The iris becoming j inflamed preserves its proper mode of in-, ' flammation,t;i^. the adhesive. The inflamed | iris does not secrete pus, nor does it take j on the ulcerative action. ! Fig, 4. Acute iritis during the use of mercury j for secondary syphilis, and accompanied by I doubtful or at least mixed symptoms. I 3 i\ * fI CASE OF LIGATURE ON THE / AORTA. BY Mr. ASTLEY cooper. I FEAR that the title of this paper may impress the reader with an idea that nothing could jus- tify me in performing the operation which I am about to describe ; for that a ligature made up- on the aorta must necessarily prove fatal. But I trust, that it will be seen in the sequel, that ed with im- the operation was not attended with the imme- diate danger which might have been apprehend- ed; that the patient complained of but little pain during its performance ; that it alForded the only hope of safety, and that we had to lament, not that the operation was performed, but that it had not been sooner done. Sorry indeed should I be, to sport with the life of a felJow-creature who might repose a confidence either in my surgical knowledge or in my humanity; and I should be equally dis^- posed to consider myself culpable, if I did not make every possible effort to save a person, whose death was rendered inevitable, if a dis- ease were suffered to continue which it was possible for surgery to relieve, as in the case which forms the subject of this essay. In the performance of our duty one feeling should di-114 CASE OF LIGATURE First opera- tion for carotid aneurism nnfortu- nate, second suc- cessful. Three sources of medical e^ddence. General considera-j tions on ligatures of arteries; in the larger ca^ vities; rect usj the case we should consider as our own, and we should ask ourselves, whether, placed under similar circumstances, we should choose to submit to the pain and danger we are about to inflict. Guided by this principle, and having collected all the evidence which applies to the case, we perform our duty without the reproaches of conscience which must await those who unnecessarily subject their patients to pain and danger. Those who feel disposed to condemn the at- tempt which I have here described, will have the kindness to recollect, that although my first operation for carotid aneurism proved equally unfortunate with this, yet in the second opera- tion, I was gratified by the successful issue of the case. In collecting evidence upon any medical sub- ject, there are but three sources from which we can hope to obtain it: viz, from observation on the living subject; from examination of the dead; and from experiments upon living ani- mals. By the first, we learn the history of dis- ease;' by the second, its real nature, so far as it can be certainly known; and by experiments upon living animals, we ascertain the processes resorted to by nature for restoring parts which have sustained injuries, and then apply that knowledge to accidents in man. In applying ligatures upon the arteries gene- rally, the chief circumstance to be considered is, the probability of the blood being conveyed by means of anastomosis to the parts beyond ; but in operations upon those arteries, which are seated in the larger cavities of the body, it be-115 ON THE AORTA* comes a subject of consideration, by what mode the ligature shall be prevented from occasioning destruction. In common parts, it produces sup- puration and ulceration, which end in the sepa- ration of the ligature ; but amidst the vital or- amidst vital J organs. gans, a suppurative process may endanger lire. The Aorta is so rarely obstructed, that the Aorta rare- y ^ ^ ly obstruct- opportunity of ascertaining the power of anas- ed. tomosing vessels in propelling the blood is ex- tremely unfrequent. The first impression arising from examination of the structure of the aorta at its curvature would be, that an anastomosis would not be sufficiently free to permit the blood ^ tion at the to find its course by circuitous channels; and curvature, the only opportunity that I have had of seeing a contracted aorta in the human subject would serve to confii m that opinion : but Mr. Graham has met with a case (which will hereafter be de- tailed) which shews that even in that part of the aorta, the communication may be sufficient to allow a passage to the blood. With respect to the case of contracted aorta, which I had the opportunity of seeing, the fol- lowing are the particulars, as given to me by Mr. Winstone, Surgeon, of Charter-house Square, who solicited me to inspect the dead body :— “ The gentleman, who formed the subject of Mr. win- it, was 57 years of age, of a full habit, accustom- ed to free living, had been in good health for years, excepting in the winter, when he was always troubled with a violent cough; more violent than I ever witnessed in any other per- son. In the night of April the 7th, 1809, he was affected with cough and difficulty of breathing I 2CASE OJT LIGATURE tie to a greater degree than usual; and at five in the morning I saw him. He complained of pain under the sternum, the extremities were cold, the countenance exhibited marks of inexpres- sible anxiety j the pulse was rather weak, but re- gular, and much altered in frequency. These symptoms continued with but little alteration, notwithstanding cupping on the sternum, blis- tering and volatile medicines, until about eleven o’clock, when he was prevailed upon to go to bed. He walked up stairs, and fell on the bed lifeless.” Dissection. XJpon our Opening the body, the pericardium immediately presented itself exceedingly dis- tended ; and on making an incision into it, a large quantity of blood was discharged; upon examination of the heart, one of the coronary veins was found ruptured on the anterior surface of the right ventricle. At first I supposed this was the source of the blood found in the pericar- dium ; but upon more minute examination of the heart, when J had brought it to my house, I found an opening leading into the right ventri- Rapture of clc, and that the rupture had begun in this part lentride of of the hcai’t and extended through its substance^ the heart, vciu iu its progrcss. I opened the pulmonary artery, but found it free from dis- ease ; the left side of the heart was also healthy, but the lungs adhered in some degree to the in- Adhesion of ner sidc of the chest, and a small quantity of fluid the lungs. found iu each remaining portion of the ca- vity of the thorax. The finger being thrust into the aorta, opposite to that part at which the omalis arteriosus terminates, a stricture was dis-117 ON THE AORTA. covered in it, which with difficulty admitted the little finger, and which, on more particular ex- amination, was found to be a thickening of the circular fibrous structure of the vessel, accompa- nied with some ossification of its coats. This state of contraction in the aorta impeded the> passage of the blood through the heart and lungs, and under the extreme degree of distention thus produced, the right ventricle, from its less power of resistance, gave way, and occasioned the sud- den termination of the patient’s existence. The following case has been published in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, by Mr. Gra- ham, Physician to the Infirmary, Glasgow.— (Vide Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol.V.) “ The case which I take the liberty of trans- mitting to the Medical and Chirurgical Society, has, as far as I know, but one parallel on re- cord ; and in it the appearances on dissection only are mentioned ; no history is given of the case. I believe, I have extracted from the books of the infirmary, such parts of the reports taken at the patient’s bed-side as are of any im- portance, and have noted some anomalous symptoms which may now appear trifling; be- cause it may perhaps be found that an improved state of‘ knowledge may give importance to what at present seems adventitious, and without va- lue. I am sorry to say, that as I can see no diagnostic symptom, the occurrence of this de- rangement adds but another chance to our guessing wrong during life, at the diseases of the heart. stricture in the aorta. Mr. Gra- ham’s cas(,118 CASE OF LIGATURE Symptoms. Supposed Io be pneumo- nia in an advanced stage. Palpitation* . “ Henry Frere, 14 years of age, a weaver, ad- mitted into the infirmary the 3d of August, 1813, where the following history of his symp- toms was entered on the journal of the house;— “ Two weeks ago, after exposure to cold, was affected with dry cough, which, for the last eight days, has been attended with tolerable, copious expectoration and pain, impeding respiration, and excited by the cough, in the left side of the chest; pulse 100, somewhat firm; little appe- tite ; much thirst; tongue rather white ; bowels regular; sleeps ill; sweats considerably; has . used no medicines.’* The disease was regarded as a case of pneu- monia, but of such standing, that suppuration seemed to have taken place, and in which, there- fore, no material benefit was likely to result from any treatment. However, under the ordinary means, bleeding, blistering, expectorants, and the free use of cathartics, 1 had the satisfaction of seeing the symptoms decline. The blood from the first bleeding presented somewhat of the buff coat. The pulse, however, generally ranged from 92 to 104, and is variously marked in the reports; full, strong, sharp: it was always regular. The sputum became more copious, gross, and tinged with blood. He perspired chiefly from the upper parts of the body, moaned in his sleep, and took little food. On the 8th he was affected with nausea and vomiting. On the 19th he had a febiile attack, which lasted a few days. On the 20th there was much pain in the left eye-ball. On the 27th he complained only of palpitation—the first time that symptom is 6119 ON THE AORTA. noticed in the journal, though I rather think this was an oversight. No report was taken from this date till the 6th of October, when he was dismissed from the hospital “ cured.” The palpitation had subsided as the strength increased ; which encouraged a hope I was will- ing to entertain, that this symptom proceeded from,weakness, though I could not but express fears that the inflammation had extended to the pericardium or the heart. The uncertainty of . • . • . . oiaguosis. the diagnosis in cases of this kind, is but too well known to every practitioner. I was inclin- ed to suspect the effusion of serum within the pericardium, or perhaps adhesion of the heart to its capsule, though I had seen at least two cases about that time of the most intimate and general adhesion, without the circulation having been in any degree affected. These fears were much strengthened by the boy’s appearance on returning to the hospital on the ISth of November, when the throbbing of the carotid and subclavian arteries was very remarkable. On his re-admission, the following report appears on the journal:— “ \2th November.—Dyspnoea, palpitation at Dyspnoea, the heart, and pain in the left side of the thorax anlTpain°of returned soon after he left the house, and have been gradually increasing; pulse 88, regular; bowels kept open by physic ; received tempo- rary relief from the application of a blister.” Blisters and cathartics were again employed, and the symptoms for a time declined. The pain, which had been removed, returned to the left side of the chest on the evening of the 29th. A blister was repeated next day, which gaveCASE OF LIGATURE 120 Febrile at- tack. Nausea and vomiting. Acidity and cardialgia. Copious perspira- tion, vomit- ing, sandy urine. Death. Serum in the abdo- men. much pain, till he was suddenly seized with a febrile attack on the 2d of December, when the part became quite easy. There was no stran- gury. The fever was gone next day. A simi- lar attack, accompanied with nausea and vomit- ing, was experienced on the 12th, and imme- diately removed by the operation of an emetic. He had acidity at the stomach, and cardialgia after meals. On the 23d, he is reported as hav- ing been affected for ten days with pain in the right side of the chest, increased by motion, and by full inspiration, accompanied by frequent cough, most troublesome in the night. The pulse had again risen ; he was blistered, used cathartics, and was twice bled ; the blood, espe- cially after the first operation, being very buffy. The pulse subsided, and the pain was removed, but the cough and palpitation continued. The circulation was again quickened on the 27th, and remained hurried till his death ; he sunk at length j was drenched in perspiration ; took no food; was attacked with frequent vomiting; the urine became sandy; his sleep was disturbed; the dyspnoea and palpitations increased, and he expired about noon on the 2d of January. The pulse, while he was last in the hospital, fluctuated from 90 to 116, and was of various degrees of strength and firmness; latterly only, weak ; it was always regular. Dissection. There was nearly a pound of serum in the cavity of the abdomen, and the bowels were distended with flatus, but the viscera seemed121 ON THE AORTA. 18 natural. Immediately on turning up the ster- num, the pericardium pi esented itself very much enlarged, obscuring the left lung, and adhering to the pleura costalis. This capsule, which was thin and beautifully transparent, contained about an ounce of fluid, and a heart nearly twice its natural size for a boy of this age. The arteries and trachea were distended above the arch of the aorta ; the contents of the thorax were 'turned downwards ; and the aorta, being divided below the whole, was removed from the body. The walls of the left ventricle were about an inch in thickness, but no other derangement in the structure of the heart or its valves, was observed. TJie capacity of the cavities seemed natural. .The aorta expanded unusually near its origin, so : las to form a kind of pouch, but after having given off the branches to the head and superior extremities, its diameter was preternaturally contracted. It was continued of this diminished isize till after its union with the canalis arteriosus, invhere it was completely impervious. The coats were not thickened, or in any way diseased, ex- cept that about half an inch below the stricture, hhere was a smooth elevation on the inner sur- ace, less raised, but having nearly the diameter )f a split pea ; otherwise the appearance was exactly such as if a ligature had been tied tightly ound the artery. The obstruction was about a ine in breadth. The artery then received three runks about the size of crow quills, and near hem three smaller ones, afterwards resuming* ts natural size along the vertebrae. These three runks are evidently the uppermost of the infe- 7 Increa«5ed size of tlie heart. Aorta ex- panded near its origin. Preterna- tural con- traction of it. Impervi- ous. Received til ICC trunks im- mediately below the stricture.122 CASE OP LIGATURE rior intercostals ; their coats were remarkably thin, like those of veins. A probe passed from the pulmonary artery along the canalis arteriosus to the obstructed portion of the aorta; but from its thickened appearance, it did not seem pro-. bable much communication by means of it could have been allowed, and the florid counte- nance of the boy during life establishes the same conclusion. There having been no suspicion of this singular deviation from the natural struc- ture till after the contents of the thorax were removed from the body, it was impossible to. trace, with the accuracy that could be wished, the anastomosing branches by which the circu- lation had been carried on in the inferior parts of the body ; but I think enough has been ob- J served to lead us very near the truth. The ar- ') teria innominata, the left subclavian, the supe- ^ rior intercostals, and the mammary arteries, were much enlarged. The epigastric was reported to i be of its natural size. These facts, and the i aorta acquiring at least very nearly its natural ] size immediately below the stricture, shew that \ the blood did not pass to the inferior extremities, j in any material quantity, as might perhaps have been expected, by thd inosculations of the mam- ^ mary and epigastric arteries, but chiefly by the j Circulalidti communications of the superior intercostals | by the su- and the mammary arteries with the three large \ tercS's branches entering the aorta below the stricture: : and mam- from the mammai'les and thoracics through I; manes. ^ others of the intercostal and diaphragmatic ar- | teries. . ! The lungs were very light coloured j the left 1ON THE AORTA. 123 lobe much collapsed. In each side of the thorax there was a small quantity of bloody serum.” After the aorta has formed its curvature, it gives off numerous intercostal arteries within the cavity of the chest; and though these ves- sels are small, they communicate so freely with each other, that under a gradual obliteration of the aorta, the blood would be still readily trans- mitted to the inferior parts of the body. An ex- ample of this kind is related by Mr. Paris, and is quoted by Mr. John Bell, in his Surgical Ob» servations. “ Mr. Paris, Dissector of the Amphitheatre of Mr. Paris’s the Hotel Dieu, in the year 1789, injected the body of a very lean old woman, about 50 years of age, whose arterial system was found to be singularly deranged, and the circle of the blood changed altogether by a complete con- traction of the aorta a little beyond the arch. Mr. Paris had his attention particularly excited to the condition of this subject by the unac- countable enlargement of the small arteries upon the fore part of the chest. He had filled the ar- teries with an injection composed of equal parts of suet and resin, coloured with lamp-black ; and this injection, thrown in from the mouth of the aorta, passed along so easily, that far from sus- pecting an obliteration, he felt that he could have thrown in more injection than is usually required for filling an adult body. The subject was so meagre, that, without dis- secting, Mr. Paris felt the thoracic arteries run-CASE OF LIGATURE 124 Aorta con- tract od be- low the arci). Arch very slightly dilated. ning down the sides of the chest tortuous and remarkably enlarged. It was natural for him to be very careful in the dissection of this subject. He found the aorta immediately beyond its arch contracted to the size of a writing quill ; the coats of the artery were of their usual thickness, and its cavity of course extremely small; the arch of the aorta above this contraction was but very slightly dilated; the part below had lost nothing of its natural size. Nothing could be found either in its own structure, or in the con- dition of the neighbouring parts, to account for this contraction of the artery. The carotids were in the natural state; the arteria innominata, and the left subclavian were enlarged to twice their natural diameter; all their smaller branches were increased in the same proportion, and had assumed a curled and zigzag course: the internal mammary and phrenic arteries w-ere greatly enlarged and very tortuous. The transverse arteries of the neck were of twice their natural si?e ; the posterior branches were tortuous, extending to a great distance over the back, with long inosculations which wei'e met from below by the branches of the upper intercostal arteries, and they were also remarkably enlarged ; the thoracic and sca- pular arteries which run along the side of the chest, were twice their natural size. Below the constricted part of the aorta, the lower intercostals were remarkably enlarged even to three or four times their natural size; each of them was dilated, but those were most affected which were given off nearest the con- tracted part; and the posterior branch of each125 ON THE AORTA, which penetrates to the muscles of the back, was more dilated than that which runs between the ribs : indeed, those posterior branches were Posterior ■ so remarkably dilated with contortions so closely parti- succeeding each other, that they resembled a necklace of beads ; and their inosculations with the branches of the transversalts cervicis were very remarkable. The low^er phrenic artery was enIarged,forming considerable inosculations with ( the superior phrenic; the epigastric artery was cdilated to the size of the enlarged mammary, 1 iand was joined with it by very numerous and I cconspicuous inosculations V* This case clearly I 'demonstrates, that the greater part of the blood, I usually conveyed by means of the aorta through f:the thorax, is capable of finding a circuitous ittercostal arteries. |i With respect to the aorta in the abdomen, I ‘ .have met with no instance in the human subject ;l| ijf its obliteration or contraction ; but if such lan event were to occur, little difficulty could lurise in the transmission of blood by collateral |::hannels : the mammary and epigastric, the su— |)3erior and inferior mesenteries, and the lumbar I urteries could furnish abundant opportunity for u circuitous course of the blood. Although in the human subject we are thus lieficient in evidence concerning a circuitous ::irculation in the cavity of the abdomen, yet with respect to other animals, it is probably ge- ; »aerally known that I have several times madeCASE OF LIGATURE 126 Operation of tying the aorta in dogs. Distection. ligatures upon the aorta of the dog, and found that the blood was readily carried by anastomos- ing vessels to the posterior extremities of the animal. Of which experiments an account has been published in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions. , The incision was, in each experiment, made on the left side of the spine, the aorta was drawn to the surface of the skin by an aneurismal nee- dle, and all the surrounding parts being separat- ed from the vessel, so as to perfectly bare its coats, a ligature was applied around it. An animal under these circumstances was kept for a few weeks, and then killed : being injected and dissected, the lumbar arteries, which were considerably enlarged, were found to be the chief agents of the new’ circulation. We have a beautiful preparation in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, shewing the obliterated aorta, and the numerous and enlarged anasto- mosing vessels which carried on the circulation; thus establishing, as far as analogy could go, the possibility of the blood being transmitted in a similar manner in the human subject. I shall now proceed to detail the circum- stances of the case wdiich forms the principal ob- ject of this Paper, leaving the remarks upon the kind of ligature to be employed till a descrip- tion of the operation has been given. CASE. Charles Hutson, a porter, aged 38 years, w^as admitted into Guy’s Hospital, April 9, 1817, for a swelling in the left groin, situated partlyON THE AORTA. 127 nbove, and partly below Poupart’s ligament. An obscure pulsation could be perceived in it, and it was concluded to be an aneurism. The his- tory which he gave of himself was, that thirteen months previous to his admission, he had fallen against the corner of a chest, by which accident I he received a violent blow upon the left groin. Is land w'as so much hurt as to be unable to walk to I his home. On the following day, his thigh be- ; \2ame so much discoloured and swollen, that he could not rise from his bed. After a confinement of three weeks, he began CO recover, and the limb soon returning to its i natural size, he resumed his employment, but was never able to exert that limb with the same I freedom as the other; however, he continued to I vvork, though with the greatest difficulty, till : kvithin a fortnight of his admission into the hos- [ i.)ital: for some time previous to which, he had i ueen occasionally troubled with a pricking sen- I cation in the limb, but it was only transient, and i leemed to arise from the pressure of the tume- laction upon the anterior crural nerve. Some ti.egree of swelling had remained in the groin from the time of the accident; and for some ■Teeks previous to his admission, he had been Obliged to loosen his clothes on the left side. At this period the swelling was considerably .liffused, several large veins crossed its surface, ! ind pressure upon it gave considerable pain. ■ ))n the third day after he had been in the fospital, the swelling increased to double its )3rmer size, and the pulsation became less dis- ' 'inct, excepting in the course of the iliac and Case con- cluded to be aneurism. Received a violent blow on the left groin. Thigh next day much swollen. Complain - ed of prick- ing sensa- tion in the limb. Swelling greatly dif- fused.CASE OP LIGATURE 128 Extent of swelling:. Fluctuation perceived above Pou- pait’s liga- ment. Swelling suddenly increased Pressure applied. f Tournkiuet ordered to be applied. femoral arteries. The tumefaction extended from three to four inches above Poupart’s ligament, to an equal distance below it, and was of great magnitude. Just below the anterior and supe- rior spinous process of the ilium, a distinct fluc- tuation could be perceived in the aneurismal sac above Poupart’s ligament, so that the blood had evidently not yet coagulated ; and the perito- neum was carried far from the lower part of the abdomen, in such a manner as to reach the common iliac artery, and to render an operation impracticable without opening the cavity of the peritoneum. I therefore determined to avail ■ myself of other means, or to wait the efforts of i nature towards a spontaneous cure, before I performed any operation ; a circumstance which ! it is well known every now and then occurs. « May 16.—The s welling had suddenly increas- ' ed; and the puisation becoming more distinct, i twelve ounces of blood were ordered to be taken from the arm. 21.—Pressure was applied upon the fore part . of the swelling, by means of a cushion bound down upon it by a broad roller j twelve ounces j of blood being drawn from his arm, the patient declared himself to be more at ease. j 27.—The pressure upon the tumor being re- | moved, the skin was found abraded and disco- i loured, with the loss of its sensibility. | 30.—In the morning he reported, that he had |i passed a restless night, and appeared to labour ji under considerable constitutional irritation. The swelling had very much increased; a tourni- quet was ordered to be applied upon it, with di-129 ON THE AORTA. ' rections to adjust it in such a manner as to press upon the aneurism, but as little as possible upon the surrounding parts. Jzme 1.—He had borne the pressure of the tourniquet tolerably well, but it made no differ- ence in the size of the tumor. 4. —AVhen the tourniquetwas loosened,a slight ulceration of the skin over the sac was observed, and it was therefore ordered not to be re-applied. 5. —He complained of the limb feeling so ex- cessively heavy, that he had difficulty in raising it. The skin over the aneurism is shewing a dis« position to slough. 19. —A slough was observed on the exterior part of the swelling below Poupart’s ligament, ' which had nearly separated, with a deep ulcera- tion around it. 20. —At ten in the morning he had a bleeding from the external part of the sac, but the loss of i blood was not considerable. A compress of lint was applied,and confined byadhesive plaster. He I had no return of bleeding on the following day. 22.—At 7 o’clock in the morning, after some j slight exertion, he bled again; but still the bleed- ing was not profuse. 24. —The bleeding again recurred, but stop- sped spontaneously. 25. —About half-past two o’clock in the after- moon, in consequence of a sudden mental agita- ttion, he bled profusely. My apprentice,Mr. Key, tfortunately succeeded in preventing his imme- < diate dissolution by pressure, but the man Was ^so much exhausted, that the faeces were passed t involuntarily. K Slight ul- ceration from the tourniquet. Limb ex- cessively heavy. Slough and ulceration. Slight hse- morrhage. Profuse hae- morrhage. Involun- tary pas- sage of faeces.CASE OF LIGATURE 130 In danger of another haemor- rhage, which would prove fatal. Small open- ing nia le into the aneurism. Finger in- troduced. At 9 o’clock the same evening I saw him, and found him in so reduced a state, that he could not survive another haemorrhage, with which he was every moment threatened. Yet, still anxious to avoid opening the abdomen, to secure the aorta near to its bifurcation, I determined to ascertain whether it was practicable to pass a ligature around the artery from within the aneurismal sac ; for I was of opinion, that if the artery had given way near the centre of the sac, as it usually does in aneurism, I might compress it with my finger, and pass a thread around it. With this view, I made a small incision upon the aneurism, about two inches above Poupart’s ligament; and having made a very small open- ing into the sac, I passed my finger easily into it, and felt for the artery upon which it was formed ; in doing which, my finger so complete- ly filled the opening, that it prevented the es- cape of any blood by its side. I moved the fin- ger to feel for the artery, but found only a chaos of broken coagula, and that the artery entered the sac above and quitted it below, without there being any intervening portion of vessel; and therefore, was constrained to abandon that mode of operation. When I was about to with- draw my finger, I directed two of the students to compress with their hands the aorta upon the spine, and they succeeded in stopping the pul- sation in the artery of the right groin. As I withdrew my finger, I put a dossil of lint by its side, and closed the opening which I had made into the sac. It is proper here to observe, that the apertureON THE AORTA, 131 made into the aneurism by the sloughing pro- cess, was situated too far from the natural seat of the artery, to allow a hope of my finger reaching it from thence. As I was quitting the patient’s bed-side, I felt a great regret, in which all the students by whom I was surrounded joined me, that the patient should be left to perish without giving him the only chance which remained 'of preventing his immediate dissolution from hae- morrhage, by tying the aorta; and I therefore said, “ Gentlemen, this only hope of safety I am determined to give him.” The operation was performed as follows: The patient’s shoulders were slightly elevated by pil- lows, in order to relax, as much as possible, the abdominal muscles; for I expected that a protru- >sion of the intestines would produce embarrass- ment in the operation, and was greatly gratified to find that this was prevented by their empty state, in consequence of the involuntary evacu- iation of the fasces; and here let me remark that II should, in a similar operation, consider it ab- ^solutely necessary, previously to empty the Ibowels by active aperient medicines. I then made an incision three inches long iinto the linea alba, giving it a slight curve to oavoid the umbilicus: one inch and a half was .above, and the remainder below the navel, and tthe inclination of the incision was to the left side of the umbilicus in this form ( l> ). Having di- wided the linea alba, I made a small aperture into the peritoneum, and introduced my finger into the abdomen; and then, with a probe-pointed bistoury, enlarged the opening into the perito- K 2 Artery could not be reached from the slough. Operation. Intestinee empty. Caution. Incision macleinth* linea alba. Curve to avoid the umbilicus. Opening of the perito- neum.CASE OF LIGATURE IS2 J Finger passed into the abdo- men. Perito- neum divided by the finger nail. Ligature passed around the aorta. Exclusion of the intes- tine from , the liga- ture. Wound united by quilled su- ture, and adhesive plaster. neum to nearly the same extent , as that of the external w’^ound. Neither the omentum nor in- testines protruded; and during the progress of the operation, only one small convolution pro- jected beyond the wound. Having made a sufficient opening to admit my finger into the abdomen, I then passed it between the intestines to the spine, and felt the aorta greatly enlarged, and beating with excessive force. By means of my finger nail, I scratched through the peritoneum on the left side of the aorta, and then gently moving my finger from side to side, gradually passed it be- tween the aorta and spine, and again penetrated the peritoneum on the right side of the aorta. I had now my finger under the artery, and by its side, I conveyed the blunt aneurismal needle armed with a single ligature behind it; and my apprentice, Mr. Key, drew the ligature from the eye of the needle to the external wound; after which the needle was immediately withdrawn. The next circumstance, which required con- siderable care, was the exclusion of the intestine from the ligature, the ends of which were brought together at the wound, and the finger was carried down between them, so as to remove every por- tion of the intestine from between the threads: the ligature was then tied, and its ends were left hanging from the wound. The omentum was drawn behind the opening as far as the ligature would admit, so as to facilitate adhesion; and the edges of the wound were brought together by means of a quilled suture and adhesive plaster. t 7ON THE AORTA. 133 I f i During the time of the operation, the faeces passed off involuntarily, and the patient’s pulse, both immediately, and for an hour after the operation, was 144 in a minute; he was ordered thirty drops of tincture of opium and campho- rated mixture, and the involuntary discharge of fiEces soon after ceased, I applied my hand to his right thigh immediately after the opera- tion, and he said that I touched his foot; so that the sensibility of that leg was very imper- fect. For the following particulars I am indebted to Mr. William Cox, one of my apprentices. At midnight his pulse was 132. 26.—At 1 o’clock in the morning, the pa- tient complained of heat in the abdomen^ but he felt no pain upon pressure; he said that his head felt hot, and that he had pain in the shoulders; his lower extremities, which were cold soon after the operation, were now regaining their heat; his body was in other parts covered with a cold sweat. The sensibility of the lower extremities has been very indistinct since the operation. At 2 o’clock he felt so comfortable from his medicine that he wished to have more of it, and ten drops of tincture of opium were given him; his legs were wrapped in flannel, bottles of hot water were applied to the feet, and he then said that the heat of his belly was lessened. At 6 o’clock the sensibility of his limbs was still imperfect. At 8 o’clock A. M. he expressed himself as feeling quite comfortable ; he however passed Involun- tary dis- charge of fseces; pulse 144. Imperfect sensibility of the limb. State at one in the morning.CASE OF LIGATURE 134 Difference of tempera- ture in the two limbs. Vomited. Vomiting returning at intervals. no urine, and had no evacuation ; his right limb was warmer than the left, and the sensibility was returning. At noon the temperature of the right limb was 94, that of the left or aneurismal limb 87-|. At 1 o’clock, P. M. Mr. Cooper visited him, and as he walked up the ward he appeared much gratified at seeing his patient, who was at the point of death the evening before, and who was now adjusting his bed-clothes, and smiled as Mr. C. approached his bed. At 3 o’clock after a fit of coughing, the man was much alarmed with the idea of the thread having slipped into the wound: it was a false alarm; but, to prevent the idea of its recur- rence, it was fastened to a quill; soon after this he complained of pain in the abdomen; it was not very severe, nor did it last long; readily yielding to fomentations. As he had no evacua- tions, he was ordered an enema. At 6 o’clock, P.M. he vomited, soon after the glyster had been administered : the heat of the right leg was 96, and of the left or diseased limb 87^. At nine in the evening he took half a glass of port wine in warm water, which he immedi- ately rejected; he complained of pain in the loins; his pulse was 104 and feeble; he, was very rest- less, and had an involuntary discharge of faeces. Eleven at night, his pulse 100 and weak; he still Vomited. 27.—At 7 A. M. the report was, that he had passed a restless night; the vomiting had re- turned at intervals; his pulse 104, weak and125 ON THE AORTA. fluttering: he complained of pain all over his p*inofthe body, more particularly in his head; and the :reased ac- carotids beat with considerable force; he had ‘arotidsl'* great anxiety expressed in the countenance, was very restless, and the urine dribbled from him, with some degree of pain at the end of the penis. At 8 o’clock, A.M. the aneurismal limb ap- Coldness peared livid and felt cold, more particularly around the aneurism, but the right leg remained felted?fmb. warm. At 11 o’clock his pulse was 120 and weak ; he appeared to be sinking. To the questions which were put to him he did not return any answer; he appeared to have an uneasiness about the heart as he kept his hand upon the left breast. He died at 18 minutes after one, P.M. having Died, survived the operation 40 hours. After being informed of his death, I request- ed Mr. Brooks of Blenheim Street to attend with me at the inspection of the body. Mr. Travers, surgeon of St. Thomas’s Hospital, Mr. Stocker, apothecary of Guy’s, and a large con- course of medical students attended the exami- i nation. When the abdomen was opened, we found not ; )issection. j the least appearance of peritoneal inflammation, excepting at the edges of the wound. The omentum and intestines were free from any un- natural colour; the edges of the wound were j glued together by adhesive inflammation,except- ing at the part at which the ligature prcgected. We were much gratified to find that the ligature no portion had not included any portion either of the omen- J|[ch.Sin turn or intestine: the thread had been passed - * ture.CASE OF LIGATURE. 136 Clot of above an inch closed the vessel above the ligature. Aneurismal sac. Neck of the femur frac- tured. around the aorta about J of an inch above its bi- furcation, and about an inch or rather more below the part at which the duodenum crossed the ar- tery. Upon carefully cutting open the aorta, a clot of more than an inch in extent was found to have sealed the vessel above the ligature; below the bifurcation, another, an inch in extent, occu- pied the right iliac artery, and the left was seal- ed by a third which extended as far as the aneu- rism ; all w^ere gratified to observe the artery so completely shut in 40 hours. The aneurismal sac, which was of a most enormous size, reached from the common iliac artery to below Poupart’s ligament, and extended to the other side of the thigh. The artery w^as deficient from the upper to the lower part of the sac, which was occupied by an immense quantity of coagulum. The neck of the thigh-bone had been broken within the capsular ligament, and had not been united. Upon consideration of all the circumstances of the case, to what are we to attribute the man’s death ? It did not arise from inflamma- tion, for the viscera of the abdomen were per- fectly free from it. Cause of His death appears to me to have been owing to want of circulation in the aneurismal limb ; for although the life and w'armth of the other limb was preserved, that on which the aneurism w^as seated never gained its natural heat, which must have arisen from the great bulk of the aneurism, and from the disturbed state of the coagulum which it contained, which would prevent theON THE AORTA. 137 free course of the blood through the aneurismal sac. That limb never recovered its natural heat, there being seven degrees difference between the two extremities; the sensibility also in the right limb was returning, which did not appear to be the case in the left. In an aneurism therefore similarly situated, I should apply the ligature before the swelling had acquired any very con- siderable magnitude. There is still a circumstance, however, that remains to be decided respecting a ligature upon the aorta; which is, in what manner it is to be afterwards separated: whether it should be left suspended at the wound, or cut off close to the vessel: whether the presse-artere of that inge- nious Surgeon Mr. Crampton should be em- ployed ; or some Unusual material should be used as a ligature. Although the patient whose case I have here given did not suffer from in- flammation of the abdomen, yet I should much fear that if he had lived longer, an extraneous substance suspended amidst the intestines would j have produced that effect. My friend Mr. Lawrence has proposed that the silk usually employed for ligatures should be cut off close to the knot, so as to heal the wound over it. It has occurred to me that catgut would answer the purpose better, and I shall give the result of the trial which I have made, wishing it to be understood that I consider the subject at present as undecided, and only as one for future investigation. Catgut, employed as a ligature, being more of the nature of the animal matter in which it is Danger from an ex- traneous substance amidst the intestines. Catgut pro- posed for a ligature.138 CASE OP LIGATURE Case Wtn. don. embedded, will be more easily absorbed than silk : or, if not even absorbed, will be less likely to excite irritation in the parts. I have reason to hope that the following case will be considered as highly interesting and im- portant, as the operation was performed upon a person so advanced in life as to lessen the hope which would have arisen from the more usual operation for aneurism. I performed the operation at Guy’s Hospital, where the patient, w’ho is the subject of it, at present remains; the notes of the case were taken by Mr. Hey, the son and grandson of the celebrated practitioners of that name at Leeds, who is now my pupil and clerk at Guy’s Hospital. From the .assiduity he has discovered in his studies, and the acquirements made in his profession, there is every probability that he will confer additional brilliancy on a name which ranks amongst the highest in the present race of the medical profession. CASE. f October 15th, 1817, William Hey don, aged 80, of a spare h'abit, but enjoying good health, has been for some years without any regular employ- ment on accaunt of his age, but accustomed to take more or less of walking exercise ; his ha- bits of life have been always regular. About three months ago he perceived a pulsating tu- mor situated very low down in the ham, and which at that time was about the size of a pul- let’s egg; he could assign no cause for its ap- pearance, and took but little notice of it. In139 ON THE AORTA. a few weeks, however, it increased so much in size, and the pulsation became so strong, that he was induced to shew it to a surgeon, who, finding it to be an aneurism, recommended him to come into the hospital. The tumor was now larger than an egg, compressible, the pulsation very strong and perceptible, and the skin of a natural colour. The pulse, though slow and not weak, intermit- ted ; and the pulsation of the tumor exactly cor- responded with it. He complained of a con- siderable pain in the leg at times, and when the pain was most violent the leg was very much swelled. The motion of the joint was some- what impeded. 24. —The usual incision for popliteal aneu- rism was made, and a single ligature was ap- plied round the artery, both ends of which were cut off close, and the edges of the wound brought together by adhesive plaster j the sub- stance made use of for the ligature was catgut, which had been previously soaked in water, about the temperature of 100°. The coats of the artery were very much relaxed, so as to occasion some difficulty in passing the ligature round it.. 5} P. M. About four hours after the operation, complained of a sense of coldness and uneasiness in the limb which had been operated on; its temperature was 80°, and that of the sound limb 84°. The pulse which beat 76 times in the minute was full and very irregular, but did not intermit. 25. —Has not passed a very good night, but feels comfortable this morning. Temperature Operation. Ligature made with catgut.140 CASE OF LIGATURE Wound completely tinited. Tempera- ture equal. of the limb that has been operated on 84®, that of the sound limb 92°; pulse 60, and intermits; but very rarely. 26. —Has had a good night, and feels more comfortable, though he still complains of vio- lent pain in his leg at times ; temperature of the affected limb 89°, that of the sound limb 92°; pulse intermits once in every 10 or 12 beats. 27. —Much in the same state as yesterday; temperature of the affected limb 89°, sound limb 87®. 28. —The wound was dressed for the first • time since the operation, and was found to be com'pletely united; the pulse varies very much in its intermissions, but upon the whole they have been much less frequent since than before the operation. 29. —Temperature of the affected limb 89°, sound limb 87°. SO.—Temperature of the affected limb 89°, sound limb 93°; the tumor in the ham is con- siderably lessened and has no pulsation; nor is any pulsation to be yet felt in the anterior or posterior tibial artery, though a free circula- tion appears to be carried on in the superficial veins. 31.—Temperature of the affected limb 90°, sound limb 91°. November 1. —Temperature of the affected limb 91°, sound limb 91°. 7.—Nothing material has occurred since the last report; there has been very little variation in the temperature of the limb, or in the state of the aneurismal tumor, which continues gra-141 ON THE AORTA. \ dually to subside. The wound remains perfectly united and free from irritation. :^15.—The tumor continues to diminish in size and is much softer j no pulsation can yet be felt in the anterior or posterior tibial artery. 24.—Continues to improve, no appearance of irritation from the ligatures; no pulsation in the anterior or posterior tibial artery. In three weeks after the operation he walked in the ward with the aid of a crutch, and in the first week, he had no other complaint than cold- ness in the foot on that side, with some pain in the heel. December 17.—His health is perfectly good; he walks without the aid of a crutch or stick; the swelling is reduced to a small size; and the part at which the incision was made has been and now is quite free from irritation. I confess that this case gave me much plea- sure ; the great age of the patient, the simpli- city of the operation, the absence of constitu- tional irritation and consequently of danger, and his rapid recovery, lead me to hope that the operation for aneurism may become, at some fu- ture period, infinitely more simple than it has been rendered to the present moment.I 143 EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIL Fig, 1. Shews the ligature upon the aorta in its anterior view ; a, aorta; its bifur- cation ; c, c, iliac arteries; </, superior me- senteric artery ; e, e, emulgent arteries; duodenum crossing the aorta; g, the liga- ture placed around the aorta above its bi- furcation ; h, clot in the left iliac artery, i Fig. 2. Posterior view of the aorta; a, a, aorta; b, bifurcation of the aorta ; c, c, iliac arte- ries ; d, duodenum; c, ligature onjhe aorta; f, clot formed above the ligature ^ g, clot in the right iliac artery ; h, clot in the left iliac artery ; the clots strongly ad- hering to the inner side of the vessel. This preparation is preserved in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. I ^ ^ Since the foregoing Essay was printed, I have seen a paper of Mr. * I Lawrence’s in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, wherein an ac- ccoant is given of several cases in which the arteries have been tied vmth silk; and the ligatures cut close to the knot: the result of these k r.'ases is as follows. Mr, Carwardine, of Thaxted, tied the femoral »»rtery in this way for aneurism. The wound entirely united by ad- lesion. Mr. Lawrence tied the femoral artery of a patient sent to I Jiira by Mr. Ilott, of Bromley, on the 29th of March. The ligature » i: :ame away at the end of May, and the wound then Ceased to dis- * I'.’harge. Mr. Kenrick Watson, of Stourport, tied the humeral artery chr a wound of the vessel; in a little more than two months the liga- V »mre was expelled. Mr. Hodgson tied the ulnar artery; a swelling * (I'ormed about the knot which was removed by incision five or six ^ months afterward. Mr. Cumin, of Glasgow, transmitted to Mr. Law- * f ♦fence a knot of a ligature which had been discharged from a stump i lut a considerable distance of time, tw’o or three years from the opera- i Kion. See Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. Vlllth.,0 kV \ ■ A- / - V -■*. • m nr, ; yt ' , : Ati#; ; b J-bi*:; s'^-, • . T'ft Jjti'lJ , . ■ Vi oii ■ ' ■*; *} ■ iVft'j'-Wft' ‘j' 3(jj ;': ^tft. ; i-ilOi; vd'i' V ■Wi ‘iiv ■\ <v • . ■ : • t' • J t ■* ■ m:.-' • -st£ii ,•! ,:i ttfiii no 0!-l* i if cV ; fy%!ljJ,'I.!i tJVOffil ijl)til*)0< ioi ^ ^ joL' /A ; '/■*,'• j'i‘.i ;>x;i!i fii 4i!i '(brr'*i?s >Jor:-€'‘‘'; -/v>i*^. 'iri-i ii^f tidT'* i )'r S'li is ini5v??^uM .LSii; i i ‘fei n'5f]jrii:'f^'J({ . ^^■ K vi 'i *'tt *' ‘ J " ■ • ■ ^ i' ^ .•^ . •" •'-;;*i'':-';<n.iT i: ‘ , ^ ii: ■:’ ■•' il « V ^i!j ’to ; •••■••5 : ■■■'•' ■' ■’ • •'■■*; I ■ ' ' •>.-’ftfl a' '• .'■ ■ !ffTy">^.'I , '» ■' . -■ -I' • JT '.; •r';; -yJ b:- f'' -- ff.'-l';-'1.'-'■»■ '•'■ .' ^,fr- "• i •' ' ({ ; W'i i *;;i!;’ rj ■■ rU- . I .^•A51t‘8 < ft’’ ■’ ’ •j iar*i-ft:*.'} ■ •” : K.r ■.r’-A i riC’ui'ri ;.,: vr''» -r v; - ft ;.: H <l:f ‘. ; , i* ;■ • ,-; • I : r Air X'^'4hS .•#■=’-', t-* ba’.‘ ‘-‘i-' i?’ vi«"/i^ ‘--iittt < , . ,’; .' ..r- ■ •; r;i • r- n.-tv ■+ ..‘ - ^ r y; •'■■ .1- - / T..i .-> ' ■■• ,., 1 •■ ’■ft r.5 ft -oor-'j - ,t4^. .-I-: .?■•■ON PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. By Mr. TRAVERS. I { i 4 It has upon many occasions appeared to me, that practitioners are too anxious to contend with the specific character of the venereal dis- ease, to the neglect of the inflammatory state of the affected parts, and of the evils which mercury produces, when exhibited during its height. The abuse of administering mercury for an acute gonorrhoea and recent sores, accompanied by phymosis, or an approach to that state, is of common occurrence, and it is far from being recognized by the profession as an established rule of practice, that its constitutional admini- stration is inadmissible during the existence of active inflammation in cellular textures. The gangrenous inflammation which spreads and de- stroys with such terrible rapidity the male organ in certain irritable habits, and the integuments of the lower opening of the pelvis in young and delicate females, proceeds, 1 am convinced, from the injudicious exhibition of mercury oftener than from any other cause. There is no class of cases exhibiting the local eflects of impure intercourse in so formidable a view, in its nature so wholly distinct from a syphilitic taint, in its origin so purely casual, as L146 ON niYMOSIS Origin of phymosis from swol- kn glans. or prepuce. that which forms the subject of this paper. That it was not formerly so regarded, nor even by wri- ters comparatively modern, it would be easy, if it were necessary, to shew. It is true that the mischievous consequences which I shall presently detail, rarely occur in private practice, a plain proof that they are the result of neglect or gross ill-treatment, and that such complaints in a re- cent state are easily remediable. But in hospital and pauper practice we continually meet with people under the constitutional influence of mer- cury, who are the subjects of inflammation of the penis, bordering on gangrene; often by their own indiscreet conduct; and sometimes, it must be confessed,by following the advice of persons who have the credit of being better informed. The most frequent origin of phymosis with gonorrhoea, is the swelling of the glans penis under inflammatory congestion, such as always accompanies more or less a gonorrhoea viru- lenta, and often a sore upon the glans. The in- flammation of the urethra where the gonorrhoea has its seat, or the irritation of a sore, however inconsiderable, causes a detention of blood in the corpus spongiosum penis; and unless an- tiphlogistic measures are strictly pursued, the prepuce frequently retracted, and the surfaces of the glans and prepuce exposed and bathed, the latter becomes confined by the progressive turgescence of the corona glandis within it, and cannot be drawn back without very considerable pain and difficulty. Phymosis also follows the inflammatory oedema of the prepuce, to which its lax and abundant I ♦ t V I i ! i ( i I i147 AND PARArHYMOSIS. cellular tissue disposes it upon very slight irri- tation, as gonorrhoeal inflammation, or an exco- riation, sore, or pimple upon the prepuce. The increased influx and retarded efflux of blood are promoted by the natural depending posture of the penis, a condition for the same reason most unfavourable to healing. The glans, compressed by the enlargement of the hood of the prepuce, which by the continuance of inflammation be- comes a solid substantial enlargement, shrinks away from the aperture of the prepuce, and be- comes buried in its folds. In either case the profuse and incessant dis- J''® , ^ . nnement of charge of gonorrhoeal matter is pent up, and lies the matter, in the plies and folds of the membrane, which is reflected from the prepuce over the glans penis. This matter is often furnished by the inflamed surface of the corona glandis and prepuce, and sometimes the gonorrhoea is altogether external. The chaps and abrasions, which often accom- pany a gonorrhoea from its commencement, of : the fine cuticular covering of these parts, are ■ irritated and ulcerate ; and when the inflam- imation is subdued, and the discharge furnished iby the sores is arrested, it is in consequence of ; adhesions which have taken place between the opposite surfaces of the glans and prepuce, .and thus a permanent phymosis is the cost of (Cure. These incipient states of the phymosis are ge- inerally uncombined, but it is easy to see that tthey may co-exist, as they of necessity do in a rmore advanced stage j and this is not unfre- I quently the case. L 2 I i148 ON PHYMOSIS Paraphy- m*sts. Erysipelatous inflammation with considerable oedema, and the anasarcous swelling of the pre- puce, are occasional causes of the paraphymosis. But it is, for the most part, an artificial or acci- dental, not a natural morbid condition, if we ex- cept the cases of malformation or the destruction of a portion of the prepuce by former sores. It is, therefore, much less frequent than the phy- mosis. The patient, anxious to prevent or to remedy the incipient phymosis, produces the contrary state. There is the same oedematous tumefaction of the prepuce and glans, and if. allowed to continue until the supervention of the adhesive stage, it is attended by some of the evils described as consequent upon the phymosis, both being equally cases of stricture. But the pain of paraphymosis, and the obvious inconve- nience and deformity of a permanently exposed glans, and enormously enlarged prepuce, bring it sooner to notice, and it is so easily reduced by the aid of timely scarifications of the swollen prepuce, fomentations, and compression of the glans, that it is rarely suffered to remain unre- lieved. Besides, the exposure of the glans re- moves the peculiar circumstances by which the phymosis is rendered of such formidable conse-. quence. Heister says, that the paraphymosis is fre- quently produced in coitu^ where the penis is larger, or the vagina is smaller tlian usual, and comments on the injustice of the suspicions which newly married men have inferred of the chastity of their wives, from a circumstance which warrants the very opposite inference.AND PARAPHYMOSIS. t CEuvres Chirurg. de Desault, tom. iii. p. 189. > Both the phymosis and paraphymosis occa- sionalJy arise from circumstances wholly uncon- nected with sexual commerce. “ Young boys,” Says Mr. Latta, “ frequently bring on a paraphy- niosis by retracting the prepuce in diversion, un- til they become unable to pull it forward again. As they conceal this for some time through tear, it is not uncommon for the parts to become in- flamed and swelled to a great degree, and 1 have even found gangrene taking place before the matter was found out*.” I saw lately a case of troublesome paraphymosis with swelled testicle from a blow, and another of paraphymosis from the irritation of a hair lodged behind the corona glan- dis, which had produced a superficial ulceration. Where either state is accompanied by extreme stricture enlargement of the body of the penis or glans, it SoL'* occasions a degree of temporary stricture upon the urethra, so as to induce a partial retention ; great irritation is propagated from the neck of the bladder to the point of the penis, and the urethra in a state of high inflammation, more readily ulcerates, and thus relieves the symptoms of retention. “ It is easy to understand,” saysBichatf,“ how inflammation of the urethra may occasion reten- tion of urine. We have only to bear in mind that inflammation (especially of cellulous parts) is always accompanied with swelling ; and that swelling of the parietes necessarily diminishes ' the calibre of a canal.” * Latta^s Surgery, voi i, p. 391. A case of this description has occurred under notice since the former edition of this volume.ON PHYMOSIS 150 Ulceration of the pre- puce. Swollen labia, or clitoris and nytnphse of females. Where the glans has originally been the seat of chancre or common superficial sores, the state of tension is relieved by the sloughing of the glans, and the urine infiltrating the elongated prepuce, gives occawsion to circumscribed ulcers of the prepuce, by which it is discharged. The ulceration of the prepuce, from the lodgment and retention of urine within it, where the mouth of it is closed by adhesion, takes place to a greater extent; for the retained urine is extra- vasated into the cells of the connecting mem- brane, and gangrene ensuing, denudes the en- tire body of the penis even to the pubes, The urine passes by ulcerated orifices in the ure- thra, and by the irritation which its constant dribbling creates, the sloughing process is kept up and aggravated. In the debilitated state of the system produced by large quantities of mer- cury, cases now and then occur in hospital prac- tice, in which the whole of the external organ becoming affected with an erysipelatous inflam- mation, gangrenes, and falls oflT from the pubes, leaving only the vestige of the bulb in the form of a fleshy tubercle beneath the symphysis pubis, | from which the urine is discharged. In women, as in men, the gonorrhoea virulenta is generally attended with swelling of the ex- ternal parts. The labia pudendi frequently at- tain an enormous bulk, and very slowly recover their natural size, if they do not advance to sup- puration. Sometimes the swelling exclusively i affects the clitoris, its preputium, and the nym- | phae, which, if not reduced, become dense, hard, and permanent elongations. But the different | structure of the organs occasions a difference in |151 AND PARAPHYMOSIS. the symptoms as well as the seat of the disease, and seldom exposes females to the danger of sloughing from this cause. The state in which phymosis presents itself are three. 1. With tumefaction from inflammation of the ist stage, glans or prepuce, easily admitting of a gradual reduction by the assiduous employment of those means which diminish inflammation and the bulk of the enlarged part. 2. That in which inflammation has superven- wastage, ed upon phymosis of longer standing ; where the swelling is excessive, so as to compress and partially stricture the urethra, and unrelieved, tends to abscess, ulceration of the urethra, ex- travasation of urine, and gangrene of the inte- guments. 3. That in which the phymosis is chronic, 3d stage, confirmed, or irreducible ; the glans and prepu- tium being in close adhesion, from cicatrization of their inflamed surfaces. Here abscess or fis- tulous ulcer is formed in the elongated prepuce anterior to the glans; the cellular texture of the prepuce is wholly obliterated and condensed, and resembles the glans itself in size, and often in figure. On slitting it open an ulcerated groove is seen, through which a part of the urine has dribbled. Sometimes in this state of phymosis we find the glans studded with numerous vascular warts; sometimes it is reduced to a mere bud by ulceration; the proper urethra, having a small contracted orifice, is with difficulty found, and •jfK-ON PHYMOSIS 152 Treatment. Elastic ca- theter. will scarcely admit the blunt end of a probe. At other times I have found a deeply ulcerated groove, nearly detaching the glans from the cor- pora cavernosa penis. In the first of the states described, injections of tepid water, or milk and water, beneath the foreskin, and the immersion of the penis three or four times a day in a tepid bath, with a well con- trived support of the part at an angle upwards with the symphysis, constitute the best local treatment. To this the free employment of leeches, will be often found an useful addition, if applied at some distance from the swollen part. As the inflammation subsides, injections of weak goulard wash or the solution of alum or liq. calcis and calomel may be substituted. To reduce the inflammation, and thereby lessen the bulk of the glans, is the indication ; when this is accomplished, the reduction of the phy- mosis follows almost spontaneously. In the second state, in addition to such palliative measures as suggest themselves, as emollient cataplasms and fomentations, if a small elastic gum catheter be introduced into the bladder and retained in it, it wfill remove the danger of ulceration of the urethra, or at least prevent extravasation where ulceration has already begun. This is not a practice indicated by the de- gree of stricture, which is seldom considerable enough to require it; but by the approaching danger of extravasation. It should not there- fore be taken up unless the cellular membrane 3AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 153 - of the penis has advanced to suppuration. I believe that its timely use prevents the breach of the urethra*. It is not adviseable to cut the inflamed pre- Objection ,, »n 1 Tii^i to the knife. j puce, nor indeed any inflamed part. 1 lately i saw a phymosis induced by a thickened and I rigid state of the membrane of the prepuce I during the free use of mercury constitutionally I and locally, for the cure of two sores, each of i the size of a split pea, situated one on each } side of the anterior fold of the prepuce. It was the opinion of an eminent surgeon that these sores, which were thoroughly, intractable, would not heal until the prepuce was freely .divided, and impressed with the same idea, after poulticing for some days, I slit it up. The sores immediately healed, but the wound as quickly assumed the same indolent and in- tractable character which had belonged to the sores, and was so slow in healing, that it seemed to be only a transfer of the disease from one part to another. In a case of extreme enlargement, where the retention was urgent and livid discoloration marking the approach of gangrene had begun, I slit up the prepuce ; but although consider- able relief was afforded, the recovery of the part was very slowly effected. * The reader will find some judicious observations on this subject in the Surgical Works of Desault, by Bichat. ,Art. Retention d’Urine dans TUrethre: tom. iii. p. 189, 249. et seq.ON PHYMOSIS 1S4 CASE. flamed phymosis. Slough of June 13, 1816.—John Baker, ae:ed 19, con- thc prepuce o ^ from in- tractcd a gonorrhoea six months ago. During the recent use of mercury, which he took by the advice of a friend, the inflammation began. The penis is much swollen and inflamed quite to the pubes, and a profuse and purulent dis- charge issues from the prepuce, which is oefle- matous, ulcerated, and sloughing around the lough of he glans cnis glans. Ordered : H. aperiens : Catap. commun. 19.—The glans protrudes in a sound con- dition through a sphacelated opening in the prepuce. Ordered: Decoct, cinchon. c acid: Catap. c lot. nigra. 27.—The upper portion of the prepuce has fallen off, the lower is pendulous; the dispo- sition to slough appears to be checked ; the inflammation is abated. July 3.—The remaining portion of prepuce has contracted, and is granulating kindly. After this, in the month of August, the parts re-assumed an unhealthy aspect, which was re- moved by the nitrous acid lotion, the bark being continued. Sept. 13.—Sores healed.—Discharged. CASE. April 11, 1816.—Thomas Adams, aged 42, admitted with a smart haemorrhage from tlie155 AND PARAPHYMOSIS. penis, attended with phymosis of a fortnight’s duration, following a chancre on the glans. There is no sign of mercury having been taken. The hiEmorrhage yielded to pressure and cold applications. Ordered: H. aper : Lot. alb. 20.—The phymosis is reduced, and the glans appears in a state of ulceration ; a part has sloughed, and hence the bleeding proceeded. ‘ Ordered; Lot. acid. nitr. d : Ung. hydr. After a five weeks’ course he was discharged cured. CASE. Nov. 16, 1815.—Dennis Prendergast, aged 24, was salivated six weeks ago, for a chancre on the prepuce, to which phymosis succeeded. The prepuce has since been much swollen and elongated, and an ulcerated opening, which has a sloughy appearance, is formed upon one side of it, through which the urine passes; the os preputii being closed by adhesion. Ordered : Catap. c lot. nigra. Dec. 1.—The sore looks clean ; the prepuce as before, but uninflamed. A curved bistoury w as passed through the closed extremity of the prepuce, and out at the ulcer, about an inch and a half distant; and the projecting portion, of w'hich the canal was obliterated, circumcised. Scarcely a vestige of the glans penis remains ; the orifice of the urethra upon the dorsum is dis- covered with difficulty, being very small. haemorr- hage with phymosis. Slough Of the prepuce and glans penis, with phymosis.ON PHYMOSIS 156 Slough of the pre- puce anrl glans penis following phymosis. Ordered : Cerat. simp, c catap. A portion of bougie to be worn in the orifice of the urethra. 20.—Wound nearly healed ; has been much relieved by passing urine freely since the opera- tion. Complains of rheumatic pains, tor which he took the pulv. ipec. comp, and decoct, sarsap. and was discharged cured. CASE. Feb. 8, 1816.—Alfred Wright, aged 18, of a scrophulous habit, had a gonorrhoea four months since, for which he took mercury, so as to make his mouth tender. Under this treatment the penis swelled greatly, and phymosis succeeded, the prepuce sloughed to a considerable extent, so that the glans penis passed through it on the upper side. The remaining portion of the hood of the prepuce, the frenum, and the front of the glans also sloughed. The urine now- flows by an aperture in the dorsum, behind the corona glandis, where is situated a deep, irrita- ble, and ill defined ulcer, disposed to spread. Ordered : H. aper. p. r. n.: Antim. tartar, gr. opii gr. i. f. pil. om. noc. sum.; Decoct, cinchon : cerevisiae fort. lb. i. per diem. To the part, catap. cerevisiae: this was afterwards changed for the lot. acid, nitros. d. c catap. and when the ulcer had cleansed, for the lot. argent, nitrat. : ung. hydr. mit.: ung. calam. &c. As the health slowly but progressively im- proved, the sores healed. Discharged in May following.AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 157 E , Some time subsequent, Wright applied with an unhealthy ulcer surrounding the nail of the index finger of the left hand. He was ad- mitted, and shortly after discharged., the sore , being healed by the use of the lot. arg. nitrat. From bad living and neglect, the ulcer broke : - out afresh, and he was again admitted, when it had assumed a much worse appearance, having extended to the second phalanx. Various lotions i were applied, and constitutional remedies em- ; ployed, without arresting the sloughing process. I This was at length effected by washing it with a j strong lotion of muriatic acid. Separation took I place at the first phalanx, and as the sound ; integuments upon the under side projected be- i yond the joint, they were brought up as after I an amputation with a flap, and the wound healed, i forming an excellent stump without the aid of the knife. July 24.—Discharged in good health. CASE. \ i 1 April 11, 1816.'—Charles Wood, aged 33. All unhealthy ulcer upon the penis has destroyed the prepuce and glans, and is now eating deep into the body of the peni§. The urine escapes through an aperture on the dorsum penis. The disease was contracted six months ago. For sores, on the glans and prepuce, with phymosis, he was salivated, and sloughing of the in- flamed parts was the consequence. At present the ulcer is irritable and painful, its edges are ill Slough of the prepuce and glans penis, fol- lowing phymosis.158 ON PHYMOSIS Slough of the penis, with phy- mosis, pro- ducing ex- travasation of urine. defined, and it is surrounded by a livid hue. He has also a bubo discharging in each groin. Ordered :—Catap. c lot. nigra; Decoct, cin- chon : Pil. hydr. gr. x. opii gr. i. o. n. 26.—Sore on the penis and buboes clean and granulating. 29.—Sores still healthy in appearance, but his mouth is slightly sore, and he is much indis- posed, complaining of head-ach, languor, oppres- sion of the praecordia, &c. His skin exhibits an eruption in patches of a scarlet colour, not elevated, but rough and furred. Omit. pil. hydr : H. aper; Contin. decoct, cinchon : Cerev. f. lb. i. per diem. May 4.—Eruption has disappeared j health improved, but sores languid. Repet. pil. hydr. sine opio. 20.—Health in all respects improved, and sores healed.—Discharged. CASE. Aug, 15, 1816.—John Weston, aged 29, for six months past has had a phymosis, which came on while taking mercury for gonorrhoea. Two days prior to his admission, the os preputii became closed, and the urine accumulating with- in it, distended the integuments enormously. They are now in a state of gangrene. He has passed scarce any urine for two days. Ordered: Catap. e fotu com muni. 16.—A copious discharge of purulent sanies and urine took place yesterday afternoon, byAND PARAPHYMOSIS. 159 ai. j which he has been greatly relieved. The tume- faction has considerably subsided, and he has this morning passed his urine through the slough at pleasure. About the middle of the dorsum penis, a line of separation is formed in the integuments. Pulse 112, small and feeble, I bowels torpid, tongue foul, and perspiration ; copious. Ordered : H. cathart. statim. et p. r. n. rep : i Decoct, cinchon : Cerev. f.: Lot. acid. nitr. c i catap. 19.—The gangrenous prepuce has fallen off, I and healthy granulations are seen upon the line i of separation. The glans penis is sound. 21.—Surface clean. Suppuration free. Cerat. i calaminae. I 31.—Granulations healthy. General health restored. Sept. 18.—Sores healed. Discharged. CASE. July 4!^ 1816.— Charles Barber, aged 28, ofsioughof a weak constitution, and evidently suffering Stegu-”^^ from poverty, contracted a virulent gonorrhoea J^rpenfs nine months ago, which was succeeded by phymosis, and being neglected, by ulceration of phymosis. the prepuce. In this, state he fell into the hands of an advertising quack, who drenched him with mercury. The prepuce sloughed rapidly during the period of his salivation. The penis, on admission, completely divested of integu- ment, had fallen down from the pubes by the destruction of the ligamentum suspensorium ; 6ON PHYMOSIS 160 the integuments of the pubes were sloughy, and a probe passed under the symphysis pubis, in front of the bladder, for near two inches : the urine escaped through fistulous openings in the dorsum penis. Pulse is quick and feeble, but his appetite is good ; sleeps well, suffers but little pain, and has much less constitutional commo- tion than could be expected. July 5.—Ordered. H. aper : Decoct, cin- chon. c conf. arom : Cerev. f. lb. i. ad lb. ii. per diem : Catap. lini. 9.—Discharge improved, but sloughing con- tinues. Lot. acid. nitr. c catap. 13.—Pulse improved j sores somewhat clean- er j complains of much pain at the symphysis pubis, groins, and thighs. 15.—A fuller and slower pulse ; sloughing has ceased, and granulations are springing both from the penis and pubes. 22.—Scrotum now discoloured and excoriat- ed ; lot. alba; the sores are indolent, and the purulent discharge profuse. 27.—Sores much improved. 31.—Discharge still considerable, but healthy, and he is free from pain. The excoriations of the scrotum terminated in sloughs, and these have left ulcers on the septum scroti, and around it. August 26.—The sore on the pubes and penis is so fkr healed, that the urine begins to pass in quantity by the natural passage ; the sores are improved by the nitrous acid lotion. Se'pt, 4.—The whole of his urine is now void- ed by the original passage j his health has beenAND PARAPHYMOSIS. 161 daily improving for the last month : the exten- sive surface which liad been exposed by the slough, and the sores which afterwards appeared in the scrotum, were cicatrized in October fol- lowing, when he was discharged cured. The treatment of these cases when present- ing themselves in the states above described, requires little if any further illustration. The important practical lesson which such cases convey, addresses itself particularly to those who venture upon the use of mercury before it can be used with safety, and for the most part in cases where the probability is, that it ought not to be used at all. The cleansing of the surface, and the support of the patient, are the obvious indications. As the penis becomes covered, which is a very slow process where the corpora cavernosa are denuded, a catheter should be worn to prevent the breaking out of fresh sores on the scrotum and pubes from the excoriating discharge of urine, as well as for the purpose of preventing such an obliteration of the passage, as occurred in the following CASE. A sailor who had been for some months in the hospital on account of extensive ulceration of the fauces, w^as at the same time labouring under an habitual retention of urine ; the penis was shortened by the loss of a great portion of the glans and the prepuce, from chancre, concealed M Case of ab- scess from closed urethra.162 ON PHYMOSIS by phymosis, while a patient in a naval hospital, a twelvemonth prior to his admission. The urethra had been suffered to close In the healing of this sore, and was found upon examination with a probe and catgut bougie, to be imperfo- rate, at the distance of an inch from the orifice. His stillicidium was extremely painful, and the irritability of the part so great, that the intro- duction of the smallest instrument occasioned very severe pain. In this state an abscess formed in the corpus spongiosum behind the stricture, and upon opening it, urine mixed with pus flowed from it. Through this opening I passed a catheter with ease into his bladder, which was retained there, and completely re- lieved the dysuria; with a narrow curved bis- toury, a passage was then opened, through the upper portion of the penis, where the urethra had been obliterated. A probe was introduced, and afterwards a bougie was worn in the new urethra; and when, in this stage of the treat- ment, the catheter was about to be passed through it into the bladder, thus to re-establish the continuity of the urinary passage, the man, in fear of any further operation, abruptly dis- charged himself, and sacrificed the object of the treatment, after having endured the pain. Importance In the chi'onic and confirmed phymosis, there openuion doubt of the propriety of dividing jpthe^<-on- or circuiucising the prepuce, adopting one or state. the other method according to circumstances. I have not met with that success in the use of prepared sponge tents, or any other mode of dila- tation, of which I have heard some practitionersAND PARAPHYMOSIS. 163 speak as superseding the operation. A dilat- ino- instrument was contrived by Trew, consist- ing of two elastic plates, which were introduced within the prepuce, and regulated by a screw *. Where parts have recovered soundness, patients are naturally unwilling to submit to an operation, for the sake of a remote advantage, or the re- moval of a mere inconvenience. But in this case more cogent reasons may, and ought to be stated. The diseases to which a permanent phymosis . gives birth, are not simply those, which re- sult as a consequence of its recent formation. Mr. Key’s cases of malignant ulceration, com- plicated with congenital phymosis, are sufficient- . ly instructive, and to these I beg leave to refer the readert. The congenital phymosis is not uncommon. It is a source of inconvenience in micturition : and coition. T believe that it more frequently depends upon a short frenum, than any other ! circumstance, and that the frenum of the pre- ; puce may be in these cases divided with similar I ? advantage, as the frenum linguae in the case of I: tongue-tied children. I have rarely seen in- tractable ulcers of the penis without phymosis, I' recent or original, and have observed the advan- f tage which Jews derive in the healing of sores I from the exposure of the glans. ♦ See. Keister’s Surgery, Vol. II. plate 26. fig. 5. I join with Keister in much doubting its usefulness, and that of any ' similar contrivance. The thin integument of the prepuce is lacerated when forcibly extended. t See Practical Observations in Surgery, 2d ed. chap. xiv. On the Cancer of the Penis.” M 2ON PHYMOSIS 164 Congenital phymosis with gonor- rhoea, and conse- quent ulce- ration of the pre- puce. Warts fol- lowed by phymosi?. CASE. i Aug. 7, 1817.—William Hollington, aged I 19. This man has a natural phymosis, which had produced little if any inconvenience, until a month ago, when he became the subject of gonorrhoea. Upon its'appearance he took mer- ^ curial pills for a few days, during which time | an inflamed spot on the upper part of the pre- puce sphacelated, and allowed a protrusion of I the glans through the opening. The prepuce jf is at present swollen and inflamed, and the dis- [ charge is copious, but not unhealthy. Ordered i j Catap. c fotu. H. cathart. p. r. n. | 17.—The inflammation having sufficiently subsided, the extremity of the prepuce beyond the ulcerated opening was removed by circum- cision. A poultice was again applied.. 20.—The wound appears languid. To be i dressed with the ung. hydr. nitr.-oxid. ; 25.—Cicatrization advancing kindly. j Sept* S.—Discharged cured. ^ The growth of warts is favoured by the exist- ence of confirmed phymosis during the state of inflammation; and indeed often takes place where the phymosis is recent. In other in- stances the warts produce the phymosis, as in the following CASE. Aug. 7.—George Beard, aged 19. Six weeks ago warts began to form at the extremity ofAND PARAPHYMOSIS. 165 this lad’s prepuce, and increasing in size and number soon prevented him fi'om denuding the glans penis, which, he says, has been free from inflammation and sores. They are vascular, ir- ritable, fungating, and protrude beyond the orifice of the prepuce, and being partially evert- ed, give a cauliflower-like appearance to the end of the penis. This bunch is of the size of a walnut. Behind it the prepuce is swollen, tense and inflamed, having several openings ' through which isolated warts are protruding, as if springing from the glans. A probe passes readily through the centre of the anterior clus- ter round the glans, and out at the several > openings of the prepuce. 20.—The part has been poulticed since ad- i mission; and" to-day the bunch of warts and i - the portion of prepuce from which they grew, i were removed by one stroke of the curved bis- i ' toury. The glans being denuded appeared sound; ; the principal warts are attached to the prepuce; i two small ones only are seen upon the glans. I Poultice to be repeated. j 27.—The liq. plumb, acet. has been applied ;; to the remaining warts; it has acted well: they are ulcerated at their bases, and much di- i 1 minished in bulk. Sept. 2.—Other warts have been removed by ' I tthe scissors. 4.—A narrow border of prepuce was this day i (divided, confining a bunch of warts, which are % (Connected by peduncles to the glans. ' An ointment of arsenic was afterwards ap-166 ON PHYJTOSIS Malignant ulcer of the penis, fol- lowing chancre and phy- niosis. plied to them with the best effect, and he was discharged cured. I shall add a case of malignant ulceration of the prepuce and penis, following phymosis, which appeared to have been produced by the persevering use of mercury during the period of inflammation. CASE. OcL 26f 1815.—Daniel Partridge, admitted for an extensive ill-conditioned ulcer round i the corona glandis, which seemed disposed to spread, being surrounded by much inflamma- ; tion of the sound surface. About eight weeks , before he contracted a chancre, for which he :> was rapidly salivated; during his salivation swel- | ling and phymosis took place, and the ulcer ] increased until it had nearly destroyed the pre- ^ puce. :j For some time after his admission the sore appeared to cleanse and improve under the i blackwash poultice,' after which it became lan- guid and covered with a white crust; whicli the application of the argentum nitratum did not 1 prevent from forming. ’ In January following, it is noted that the sore has healed in part, but is no sooner cica- trized on one side, than it breaks out in another, and that a gentle course of mercury which now affected his mouth, had in no sense improved the condition of the sore.3S7 AND PARAPHYMOSIS. JPeh. 25.—This man had taken mercury suffi- cient to heal the sore if it were venereal. He had no secondary symptom of lues. The sore has a carcinomatous more than syphilitic charac- ter. Its edges are thick, inverted in some places and everted in others; its surface is un- even, fungous granulations covering it at irre- gular distances, divided by hollows covered with a dense coat of white opaque lymph; it dis- charges a thin ichor. The root of the prepuce is hardened into a ridge behind the glans. The man complains of constant shooting pains through the body of the penis, and the glands in the groin are slightly swelled and tender. His health, which was lately robust, is much impaired. His countenance is sallow and heavy, and he is much emaciated. Stimulant detersive applications which have been made to the part, have neither given uneasiness nor produced any favourable change in its aspect. Ordered to a clean ward. Soothing appli- cations were now used, and the nitric and sul- phuric acids, the liq. arsenicalis and other tonics exhibited, by which his health was benefited; the conium, hyoscyamus, and remedies of this class were tried, but without benefit; the sore remained as reported. March 25.—Amputation was performed an inch above the diseased part. The stump healed kindly, and he was discharged cured, in May following. This appears to have been a simple sore ren- dered untoward and intractable, and at lensrth threatening malignity from what might be term- ed the cachexia mercurialis.168 ON PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. It is my design by these brief observations, to direct the surgeon’s attention to the early stage of the phymosis: to recommend it as an invariable practice to examine the naked glans, ! before venturing upon the constitutional use of ii mercury: to point out the aggravation occasion- * ed by an habitual though partial retention in the state of the extreme swelling, and the ad- vantage which may be derived from the intro- duction of a small elastic gum catheter, espe- cially where ulceration is threatened, in pre- i] venting extravasation and preserving the urethra during healing; lastly, to shew the expediency of the operation in all cases of confirmed phy- mosis, whether congenital or the result of in- flammation. I offer no apology for giving a degree of im- t portance to this purely practical subject, to | which the senior members of the profession | may consider it to be unentitled. The cases, if ; they were rare, must be acknowledged to be sufficiently deplorable; but, unfortunately, they are of common occurrence, while the prevention of them, by a proper view of their nature and treatment, is easy and obvious. I have thought, therefore, that some advantage might be derived from these observations.ON EXOSTOSIS. By Mb. ASTLEY COOPER. I Exostosis is a preternatural growth of os- , sific matter, generally producing a circumscrib- ed swelling upon the bone on which it origi- i nates. This definition, although true, with very few exceptions, is not at all periods of the dis- f ease, or in every example of it, strictly accurate; i for I have examined exostoses in the early part I of the complaint, in which ossific matter had not j yet been deposited, but in which, from dissec- j tion of other cases, I know that such a deposition j would in future have occurred. I Exostosis has two difierent seats; it is either periosteal or medullary. By the periosteal exos- tosis, I mean a deposition seated between the external surface of the bone, and the internal surface of the periosteum, adhering with firm- ness to both surfaces; and by the medullary^ is to be understood a formation of a similar kind, originating in the medullary membrane and cancellated structure of the bone. With regard to its nature, exostosis is of two J kinds, either cartilaginous or Jungous. By the cartilaginous, is intended to be expressed that species which is preceded by the formation of a Definition. Two seats of exostosis.ON EXOSTOSIS. 170 Seat. Bones of the cra- nium. cartilage, which forms the nidus for the ossific deposit: and by the fungous^ is to be understood, a tumor of softer structure than cartilage, yet firmer than fungus in other parts of the body, containing spicula of bone, malignant in its nature, depending on a peculiar state of consti- tution and action of vessels; a disease similar to that which Mr. Hey has denominated Jungus hcEmatodes^ but somewhat modified by the struc- ture of the part in which it originates. The venereal exostosis, or node, although de- pending upon a different cause, is still a cartila- ginous exostosis. But this subject I do not now intend to consider, as it ought rather to form part of an essay on the venereal disease. I know no bone in the body which is not liable to the formation of these diseases, al- though there are some in which it much more frequently occurs than in others. Upon the bones of the cranium we see both kinds of exostosis. That which forms between the outer table of the skull and the pericranium is of an extremely hard consistence, is generally attended with little pain, and does not usually acquire any considerable magnitude; but a very large tumor, with a basis of bone, was lately removed by Sir Everard Home from the head of a person in St, George’s Hospital. Four of these have been known to arise from the same osfrontis; one of larger, and three of smaller size. The fungous exostosis springing from the diploe of the skull, is of less firm consistence, and is endowed with a greater degree of vascu- larity than the former. It is of .a malignant kind, 8ON EXOSTOSIS. 171 and is found to proceed through the inner table of the skull, occasioning disease of the dura mater: and by its pressure upon the brain to produce a diseased state of the functidns of that organ, by which means life is destroyed. Exostosis of the facial bones is of very fre- quent occurrence. We have in the collection at St. Thomas’s a skull which I took from a fish woman who died in that Hospital, who had long been remarkable, (even at Billingsgate,) for her hideous appearance. Two large swell- ! ings had been formed under the orbits in the fore part of the cheeks, between which the nose appeared wedged, and the nostrils were closed ; each eye projected considerably from its socket, i This person was seized with a fit, which seemed i to be of an apoplectic nature, and in that state i was brought to St. Thomas’s Hospital, where j she almost immediately died. Upon examina- i tion of the head, an exostosis was found growing I from each antrum, and forming the large swell- ings upon the cheeks : these also projected into the orbits so as to occasion the protrusion of the eyes. On the left side the exostosis entered the cranium, projected inwards through the orbitar process of the os frontis, and occasioning such pressure upon the brain, as, under a con- siderable excitement of the vessels of that organ, to .produce apoplexy, which proved fatal to her. The alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaw, are very frequently the seat of this disease ; and 1 have at present in Guy’s Hospital, an ex- ample of exostosis of the lower jaw springing from the medullary membrane and cancellated Bones of the face. Upper and lower jaw.ON EXOSTOSIS. 172 Spine. structure, in a girl, for which I had occasion to perform an operation, which will be related more at length hereafter. There is a large spongy exostosis in the col- lection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, with the his- tory of which I am unacquainted, except that I have heard from Mr. Cline, that it grew from the lower jaw. A woman of the name of Williams, who is now an out-patient at Guy’s, and whose case will be found more particularly detailed hereafter, has a fungous exostosis growing from the sym- physis of the lower jaw, forming two livid pro- jections at the alveolar processes of the incisores teeth, and a large fungus at the chin. Mr. Waring, surgeon of St. Mary Cray, sent me a child, with a similar disease in its jaw, which has since acquired very considerable magnitude. And with Sir Charles Blicke I at- tended a case of the same kind springing from the upper jaw, which was successfully removed by the knife and subsequent application of the actual cautery, the use of which was proposed by Sir Charles Blicke. Exostoses from the spine are of rare occur- rence, if we except those ossifications of the ligament covering the intervertebral substance, which sometimes in old persons destroy the flexibility of the part, and form considerable projections on the anterior and lateral surfaces of the vertebraB. Dr. Moncey, formerly physician at Chelsea, who died at a very advanced age, had the intervertebral substance thus covered withON EXOSTOSIS. 173 ossific matter, rising into considerable masses. Perhaps however I ought not here to mention these appearances ; as they are not true ex- ostoses ; but ossifications of the natural struc- tures, bearing some analogy in principle to those which are produced in the larger blood-vessels of old people. I have however seen an exostosis arise from the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra, or per- haps from botli. The subject of it was a wo- man who was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, having no pulse at the wrist or elbow. Her hand w^as of a venous redness, always cold, generally benumbed, yet seemed painful; there were small gangrenous spots upon it. On examination of the superior part of the arm, these appearances were found to be the con- sequence of a projection of the lower cer- vical vertebra towards the clavicle, and conse- quent pressure upon the subclavian artery. Whilst she was in the Hospital, by means of w^armth and friction, the natural heat of the arm and hand was greatly restored, the further in- crease of the swelling seemed suspended, and, at the time she was discharged, the arm was in a very improved state ; nevertheless the pulse at the wrist had not returned. The ossa innominata are also sometimes af- fected with this disease, which is more fre- quently seated at the posterior sacro-iliac sym- physis than on any other part of these bones. Boyer mentions an instance of one growing from the os pubis, which produced a retention of urine, prevented the introduction of the ca- Ossa innO" niioata.17-t Ribs. Clavicle. Scapula. Os humeri. ON EXOSTOSIS. theter, and thus occasioned the destruction of life. Exostosis sometimes forms upon the ribs. A lady applied to me with a very large swelling, which was occasionally severely painful, sitUat^ i; directly behind the right breast: it was extremely !; hard, quite immoveable, and seemed to sink | between the ribs. I requested to be informed of this patient’s dissolution, which, from her ex- 5| hausted appearance, I considered to be most ’ f probably at no great distance, that I might have || an opportunity of examining the part. How- ;] ever, I afterwards heard of her death without | having the opportunity afforded me. I We have a preparation in the collection at St. | Thomas’s Hospital, of a very large exostosis 11 seated between two of the ribs, which seems to | have been contained in a tumor between the ! two bones. Exostosis of the clavicle is extremely rare, if * we except the venereal enlargements of that i bone ; nor do I recollect to have met with any instance of this affection of the scapula. Upon the os humeri, I have seen a growth of bone at the insertion of the deltoid muscle. It £ arose about the size and form of the finger end. As j it occasioned no inconvenience,and had not lately i increased, I did not recommend any thing to be done for it. We have likewise, amongst the pre- parations at St. Thomas’s Hospital, an exostosis | of the os humeri of considerable size, which occu- | pies the whole circumference of the bone; the | periosteum appears in this bone to have been generally diseased, as the surface of the humerusON EXOSTOSIS. 175 i i \ I I t ? I, i I is extremely irregular. We have beside an im- mense exostosis occupying the superior half of the os humeri, excepting that the cartilaginous head of the bone is unaffected. The particu- lars of this case will be hereafter detailed. There is also, in the same Museum, a hu- merus with the shell of the bone considerably expanded, the periosteum over it thickened, and in the seat of the cancellated structure several hydatids had formed, which had been the cause of the enlargement of the exterior sur- face of the bone as w^ell as of the increase of its cavity. The ulna is very rarely affected with exos- uina. tosis, excepting sometimes at its lower part near to the wrist, where I have, in the living subject, seen some enlargement of the bone. On the radius we have an excellent prepara- Radius, tion of this disease growing to an enormous size, ulcerated upon its surface, and that ulceration having gone on to sloughing; thus exposing the exostosis. This case occurred in Saint Thomas’s Hospital, where the arm of the man ’ was obliged to be amputated in order to pre- serve life. We have also a fine specimen of exostosis upon the metacarpal bones growing to a very con- Metacafpai siderable magnitude ; a section of which shews ' extremely well the internal structure of the disease. f A young friend of mine has an exostosis Fingers, growing on the metacarpal bone of the little finger, which undoubtedly arose from a blow. I have twice removed an exostosis from theON EXOSTOSIS. 176 Os fcmoris. Tihia. second phalanx of one of the fingers; a consi*- derabJe portion of it was still cartilaginous, but at its root it was bony. The first operation being insufficient to prevent a recurrence, a second was rendered necessary. The os femoris, of all the bones of the body, is most frequently the subject of this disease. I have seen it arising from its upper part at the trochanter major, and spreading into enormous masses which projected into the groin, and upon the ilium. We have a preparation of it occupying the whole of the bone from a little below the trochanter, to the condyles, forming a considerable mass, or rather masses of bone : and some specimens where it is princi- pally periosteal; the shell of the original bone not being yet absorbed; and others in which portions of this shell have been removed* We have also examples of small projections be- tween the periosteum and the bone, rising in the direction of the triceps femoris ; one of the best of which was given to me by Mr. Dodds, jun. son of tlie surgeon of Haslar Hospital. (See Plate.) Next to the femui’i the tibia is most frequent- ly aflPected with exostosis of the periosteal kind. The seat is at the insertion of the sartorius and gracilis muscles ; and now and then at the inser- tion of the ligament of the patella at its tubercle. We have specimens of this disease in our Mu- seum at St. Thomas's, one in particular, in which the bone has formed a large cavity, covered with a strong bony case, similar to that which I have mentioned in the lower jaw; and another 3177 ON EXOSTOSIS. in which it is expanded into a large spongy shell. We have also an example of this disease growing upon the surface of the head of the tibia, and which I believe to have been of the fungous kind. I have lately seen one arising from the fore part of this bone just above the ancle joint, with the flection of which it begins to interfere. A man was admitted into Guy's Hospital under the care of Mr. Forster with a large tumor seated upon the upper part of the tibia, which felt soft, and yielded to the finger, so as to give the impression of its being a fungous disease. Mr. Forster directed adhe- sive plasters to be applied, by the pressure of which the size of the swelling was so much reduced, that the patient quitted the hospi- tal, satisfied that a continuance of the means which he had applied would suffice to accom- plish a cure. In a few weeks he returned with the swelling greatly increased, when he was admitted under the care of Mr. Lucas, who made an incision into the swelling, and dis- charged several hydatids, which were of the common globular kind. However, constitu- tional irritation, with sloughing of the inte- guments which covered the swelling, induced the necessity of amputation. An incision being made into the tumor after the removal of the limb, a large nest in the bone was found, con- taining numerous hydatids. Upon boiling the section opposite the bony nest, a fracture was found in the tibia, which had probably been produced by the disease, as the patient did N178 ON EXOSTOSIS. Fibula, Metatarsal bones. Toes. not mention vt. This fracture had united, but irregularly. The upper part of the fibula, near the head of the bone, is sometimes enlarged, and its lower end very frequently so, where it is connected by a ligament to the tibia. This enlargement, however, arises perhaps more frequently from common adhesive inflammation in the bone than from true exostosis. The metatarsal bones are now and then the seat of exostosis. I have known half the foot obliged to be amputated for this disease, placed at the extremities of those bones towards the toes. Two instances of exostosis under the nail of the great toe, projecting considerably beyond it, have occurred in my practice j one of which occasioned so much pain and inconvenience to the lady who was the subject of it, that I was under the necessity of removing it; which 1 easily accomplished with a saw. In that useful work. Cooper’s Surgical Dic- tionary, an account is given of a case related by Mr. Abernethy, in his lectures, of a boy who came out of Cornwall, who was so excessively afflicted with an apparent predisposition to ex- ostosis, or an exuberant deposition of bony mat- ter, that a very trifling blow would occasion a bony swelling in any bone of his body. His li- gamentum nuchae was ossified, and prevented the motion of his neck ; the margins of the axilla were also ossified, so that he was as it were completely pinioned ; besides all this, the sub- ject in question had numerous other exostoses in various parts of the body. 6ON EXOSTOSIS. 179 ' Of the Fungous Exostosis of the Medullary Membrane, t \ ( i The object of this paper was more particularly to describe the simple cartilaginous exostosis, with the operations which might be undertaken for its removal; but in the dissection of exostoses, we found varieties, of which we judged it neces- sary to give some account, in order to prevent the performance of operations which could never be followed by a successful issue. We shall therefore first proceed to say something con- cerning the fungous exostosis of the medullary membrane. This kind of exostosis is attended with the following symptoms. The disease begins in a general enlargement of the limb in the part opposite to the seat of the complaint, and to a considerable extent around it. It generally occurs in young persons, but I have known . it to take place at fifty years of age. Its 1 increase proceeds very gradually; and even when it has acquired considerable magnitude, jalthough it produces some diminution of motion ’in the limb, yet it does not occasion pain, or pre- vent the patient from using it. When any pain ' does arise from this disease, it is of an obtuse ikind, and is extended very much in the cpurse 1 of the bone and nerve, but becomes very acute ’whenever a nerve happens to be stretched by it, las in the exostosis of the thigh-bone which ] presses on the sciatic nerve. The general health is in these cases defective: ^.paleness, debility, irregular state of the bowels. Symptoms of medul- lary exos- tosis. Health of the patient.180 ON EXOSTOSIS. Tubercles on t[ie sur« face. Constitu- tional dis- ease. Ulceration of the tubercles. Sloughing. mark the early stages; and, when the disease is confirmed, a sallowness of complexion is observed ; the limb at length becomes of an enormous size at the diseased part, but the skin retains its natural colour; the swelling feels hard in many parts of it; but in others it is elastic, yielding to the pressure of the finger, in such a manner, as to convey an idea of a fluid beneath; but if an opening be made, no fluid issues, excepting blood. The surface of the tumor next becomes tuberculated, and these tubercles are tender to the touch; they are also, frequently slightly inflamed on their surfaces. To these appearances succeeds constitutional irritation; the rest becomes broken, the appetite impaired, and the bowels extremely irregulap.. During the continuance of these symptoms many weeks elapse, and, at length, ulceration takes place on the tubercles; the skin secretes pus, but when the swelling itself becomes ex- posed, it discharges a bloody-coloured serum; a fungus then arises, which occasionally bleeds,, sometimes largely; and, as usually happens in the fungous disease, the blood is loose in its; coagulations, and separates a large quantity of serum; the bleeding relieves the painful sen*^ sation, but for a very short time ; indeed^ oniy. for a few hours. The fungus projects considerably; the skin yields very extensively, and at length sloughs take place, by means of which, considerable portions of the swelling are separated, and file disease becomes- so &r diminished ih volum.e^181 ON EXOSTOSIS, as to induce a hope of its ultimate complete de- struction by gangrene ; a hope, however, which, in this complaint in the bone, I have never seen Realized. From the surface of the fungus, there generally occurs a very considerable discharge of serum, mixed occasionally with red particles, which moisten a great many folds of linen in a few hours. Thus the occasional losses of blood, the im- mense discharge, but still more, the constitu- tional irritation, wear Out at length the powers of the body j but the time occupied in destruc- tion by these means, is sometimes two years, and at others is a much more protracted period, as from seven to ten years. It often happens in this disease, that tumors of a similar kind form in other parts of the body during its progress; so also when the affected limb has been amputated, a similar disease will occur at a future period, and in organs of the greatest importance to life. This disease originates from tile medullary membrane of the bone within the cancelli, and if a circular incision be made of the limb, and the parts be observed, the following appearances pre- sent themselves. The skin is found in its natural state, excepting that it is projected by tubercles, which proceed from small masses on the surface of the tumor. In one case, in which ulceration had taken place, it was found that the ulcer ex- tended all the way through the tumor to the bone. The muscles are removed to the distance of three inches or more from the surface of the bone, and form a thin layer over the tumor. Discharge of scium. Duration of the disease. Similar tumors in other parts. Dissection. Appear- ancts on a <;ircular in- cision.ON EXOSTOSIS. 182 Situation of blood-ves- sels and nerves. Periosteum. The large blood-vessels are next observed to be carried, as well as the muscles, to the vicinity of the surface of the limb—we have a curious specimen in the collection at Guy’s, shewing this change in the situation of the vessels, in which the arteries have been injected—in the same manner the nerves are likewise removed from their natural seat. Under the muscles appears the periosteum, which is separated to different distances from the bone; iti some parts of the swelling to two or three inches. The tumor next appears composed of lobu- lated masses of various colours, consistence, and materials. A part is yellow like fat, part a sub- stance resembling brain, and a third part com- posed of coagulated blood, with interstices con- taining serum. In some parts the white sub- stance is found firm, nearly as much so as car- tilage, but in general it is of a more spongy ap- pearance, and contains spicula of bone within it. The shell of the bone itself is in some parts absorbed, in others it is only thinner than usual; in some cases it has been seen immensely ex- panded, so as to form a case like wire-work over the tumor (See Plate); in others it is only absorbed on one side by the pressure of the swelling. (See Plate.) In those instances in which fungous granulations arise from the medullary membrane, these are exceedingly vascular, very soft in their texture, secrete abundantly, and are sufficiently luxuriant to rise from the cavity of the bone considerably above the level of the skin.183 ON EXOSTOSIS. With respect to the cause of the fungous me- dullary exostosis, nothing certain is known. In some instances it has been attributed to a blow; in others to a jump from a very considerable height. Either of these causes, by disturbing the interior action of the bone, might produce the elfect. In the lower jaw I have seen this disease arise from a decayed tooth. But when the exos- tosis proves of the fungous kind, it implies an unhealthy state of the constitution, giving rise to the unusual action which follows the injury. In the treatment of this complaint, we have not only to combat the local disease, but like- wise to effect a change in the constitution in which it occurs. When it has however produced any great changes of structure, or occasioned very considerable increase of parts, no medical means will suffice to restore them, or prevent the fatal tendency of the complaint. But in the commencement of any deep-seated disease in bone, the best medicine, so far as I have had opportunity of observing, is the oxymurias hy- drargyri in small doses, given either in, or with, the decoct, sarsaparillas compositum. This mer- curial medicine, by reproducing the natural se- cretions of the body, and the sarsaparilla, by lessening its irritability, restore the general health, and will sometimes crush in its bud a disease, otherwise likely to become formidable, and at the same time prevent the formation of a similar affection in other structures. The local treatment consists in the applica- tion of leeches, if there be pain, and of blisters, Cause. Treatment in general.!l QN EXOSTOSIS. taking care to keep up the discharge from their surfaces by means of equal parts oF Ung. Hydr. and Ung. Sabin. Should the disease, however, after all, refuse to yield to these means, the pa- tient is, by the constitutional remedies, rendered a better subject for the removal of the part by amputation or excision, which becomes then the only resource. Iritery/^* I wislicd to try what would be the effect of cutting off the supply of blood in these cases of fungus, by tying the artery which supplies them. My colleague, Mr. Lucas, also made a similar trial j but the result of both cases shewed that such attempts will avail but little. They are therefore here mentioned, to deter others from making them. CASE. ! A young woman, aged 20, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, with a large fungous tu- mor growing upon the lower extremity of the ' radius. As it did not yield to any of the local, or constitutional means which my mind could ; suggest, and she positively refused to submit L to the operation of amputation, I proposed to her to ascertain what would be the result of cutting oft* the supply of blood to the tumor by tying the brachial artery, assuring her at the same time that it could not be followed by any j prejudicial effect, even should it fail to produce i a favourable influence. She readily submitted to this operation. A few days after its perform- j ance, a slough was produced upon the sur- |ON EXOSTOSIS. 185 face of the fungus, by which its size was consi- derably reduced. But as the vigour of the cir- dilation was restored by anastomosis, the ori- : ginal malignant nature of the disease again be- itrayed itself; the fungus grew to nearly its original size, and, after the expiration of a few months, destroyed her, as she still refused to submit to amputation. The operation which had been performed with the hope of giving Iher relief, produced but a very transitory in- fluence upon the size of the swelling, and seem- ed neither to have retarded nor hastened her dissolution. CASE. Of this case I have preserved only the fol- Mr.Lucas’s » • ^ C81SC* lowing notes in my case book. The patient had a large fungus on the leg, which had not ulcerated. He refused to consent to the ope- ration of amputation, but submitted to the pro- posal made to him of tying the femoral artery, which was done by Mr. Lucas on the 8th July, 1814. The measure of the limb was twenty-two inches at the time of the operation, and for four succeeding days, when it increased to twenty-four inches; and the outer part of the leg mortified upon the surface on which the limb rested. Amputation was performed on the 15th July, above the knee, but below the part at which the artery had been tied. Yet when the di- vided femoral artery was observed, the blood flowed from it per saltum on the tourniquet being loosened, and with such force, that he 8186 ON EXOSTOSIS. M’^ould soon have perished from hsemorrhage. The artery pulsated slightly when a ligature was made upon it; which circumstance shews how very easily the blood finds its course by anastomosis; as a week only had elapsed be- tween the two operations. It appears then from these operations that fungous diseases do not admit of removal from a diversion of the current of blood from its principal channel into the smaller arteries of the limb. The vigour of the circulation is for a moment lessened, but the peculiar action of the vessels does not appear to be ever sus- pended. The operation of amputation after constitu- tional means have been employed, and the con- . tinuance of these constitutional means after the operation, hold out the chief hope of safety; for amputation without these will do no more 'than to avert the blow for a season. The fol- lowing case, however, holds out a hope of be- nefit from an operation, which I have already proposed to the patient, and to which she has promised to consent,. CASE. Williams, a woman, aged 32, has fre- quently applied as an out-patient at Guy’s Hos- pital during the present summer, on account of a fungous exostosis of the lower jaw, which forms a large prominence on the chin. It be- gan six years ago in the teeth becoming loose, and falling out j when fungi arose from the al-187 ON EXOSTOSIS. veolar cavities, which were of a purple colour, and after a time sloughed away ; the gum healed. The jaw then began to swell; i\\Q fungi re-ap- peared after two years, and again sloughed. At this period a probe could be passed from the alveolar cavity through the jaw to the point of ^the chin. A large swelling at the symphysis iJthen began to form, which grew gradually, with little pain, excepting some occasional shootings. iTive weeks ago, the skin ulcerated at the chin. ' From this ulcer the fungus now projects, and two purple swellings appear upon the gum. She was of a delicate habit when young, always confined in her bowels, yet has twice bred du- ring the existence of this swelling, and produced healthy children. In this case, as there is no suiTounding dis- icase, the absorbent glands being healthy, and t all the vital organs free from complaint, I have : proposed to remove the portion of diseased" jaw. ’ I Of the Cartilaginous Exostosis of the Medullary Membrane, There is an exostosis produced within the 'Cancellated structure of the bone, arising from a diseased state of the medullary membrane, 'which differs greatly both in appearance and mature from the former. In this case, the shell of the bone becomes f extremely expanded, or rather the original shell is absorbed, and a new one deposited; and withinON EXOSTOSIS. 188 this ossific cavity thus produced, a very large loass of cartilage is formed, elastic, firm, and fibrous. In its commencement, there is nothing of a malignant tendency. It arises from common inflammation, brought on in a constitution not unhealthy; but the irritation is kept up for a length of time, and a very extensive disease is thus produced. I cannot better illustrate this complaint, than by the introduction of the fol- lowing cases. CASE. Sarah Dulwich, aged 13, in the year 1812, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital with a very large osseous tumor on the chin, which first made its appearance twelve months before, in the form of a small tumor on the gum of the lower jaw. It was in its commencement unat- tended with pain. At the period of her admis- sion, the upper surface of the tumor was globu- lar, and occupied the whole of the left cheek ; but beneath the integuments it was irregular, protruding below the jaw, and extending from the dens cuspidatus of the lower jaw of the right side irregularly under the tongue, which it thrust close to the right angle of the jaw; consequent- ly rendering articulation difficult and indistinct. Internally, it was very irregular and hard, and had been superficially ulcerated from the pres- sure of the teeth of the upper jaw upon the left side during the last six months; but no fungus had arisen from the ulceration. Externally, itON EXOSTOSIS. 189 reached from the chin on the fore part, passing up to the side of the left nostril, even to the edge of the orbit, round towards the ear, and Awas nearly half the size of the head. The skin ! n some places had a slight blush on it, and veins Inere and there of considerable size were seen running over its surface. For hve or six months, she has had severe pains n the left side of the head, and a suppuration from the right ear. Mastication is extremely difficult and painful, in consequence of the pres- liure of the teeth of the opposite jaw upon the i.umor. On the left side, the upper jaw, together ivith the teeth, are pushed somewhat toward the opposite side from the pressure of the tumor; Her appetite is good, but her appearance alto- ijether is delicate. She affirms, nevertheless, that her health has been generally good. Be- fore the tumor appeared, she had been subject ,o the tooth-ach of the two molar teeth of the I ower jaw constantly for two or three months. I The tumor continued to increase until it be- :.;.ame of most enormous size, measuring five inches and a half from side to side, and four ; inches from tiie incisores teeth to its anterior orojecting point. The circumference of the iswelling was sixteen inches; and less than half ))f the tumor, after death, deprived of the inte- Umxnents, measured seven inches and a half. At length it pressed the epiglottis upon the nma glottidis, so as to occasion difficulty of wreathing, and this source of irritation produced ".he destruction of life.1! 190 OF EXOSTOSIS* Dissection.—The tumor projected from the symphysis internally, and from the inner sides of the lower jaw backwards, more than three inches, occupying the space between the angles where the tongue was usually seated. ‘ The tongue was thrust back into the throat, and to the right side, where it rested in a hoi* > low, between the angle of the jaw and the tu- mor, extending only to the cuspidatus tooth ; it was completely rounded. The epiglottis was bent down upon the rima glottidis, so as to pro- duce great difficulty in breathing. The tumor originated from the medullary membrane within the cancellated structure of the bone, and was composed of cartilage and bony spicula, but upon the surface consisted chiefly of a white, fibrous, elastic mass, resembling the elastic ligaments of the body. The shell of the bone was entirely absorbed: the alveolar processes were greatly elongated, and bristled with bony spicula. . The external shell had numerous large holes ( in it. The incisores teeth were directed for- wards, and the molares outwards. The foramen in the jaw, for the transmission of its large nerve, was capable of receiving the extremity of the finger, so greatly was it en- larged. The condyloid process was directed back- wards instead of upwards, on account of the elongation of the jaw\191 ON EXOSTOSIS. CASE. Elizabeth Hall, aged 19, was admitted into 'Guy’s Hospital, on the 5th November, 1817. ^She says, that three years ago, while eating a L-crust of bread, she distinctly heard something ssnap, feeling at the same time a pain, on the rright side of the lower jaw; she felt certain Lthat it was not a tooth. Shortly after, a small limmoveable tumor appeared about the centre of the jaw on the same side, which has since .continued to increase gradually. She had pre- nously had a decayed tooth, which was ex- tracted about two years subsequent to the ap- )3earance of the swelling, without producing any effect either on the pain or increase of the tumor. 3n her admission, the swelling occupied the 'vhole length of the side of the jaw from which it yrew, from the angle to the symphysis; since hhat period it has rapidly increased, she thinks, rom the frequent handling for the purpose of t2xamination. The surface was very smooth und regular; centre considerably prominent, and »n firm pressure in that part, the elastic parietes gave way, but immediately forced back the linger, as the pressure was discontinued, with a ludden jerk like parchment. She complained occasionally of lancinating pains in the tumor, ))articularly after its being handled. Her gene- ral health was good. With regard to the cause of the disease above192 ON EXOSTOSIS. Cause of disease in thia case. Treatment. Source of irritation to be removed. Removal of the ex- ostosis. Operation. described, it was evidently the irritation of the decayed tooth, the fangs of which projected into the cartilage which was effused within the bony cavity, and which, instead of producing suppuration and ulceration, as it frequently does, kept up a degree of irritation, that did not pass beyond the stage of adhesive inflamma- tion, and a cartilaginous deposit took place in the first instance, to which succeeded an ossific effusion. I have seen a similar diseased state of the tibia, but am unacquainted with the circum- stances of the case. As to the treatment of this disease, it con- sists in first seeking the source of irritation, and removing it as soon as discovered, in order to prevent the further progress of the disease; and indeed it may be probable that the removal of the source of irritation might sometimes, even when the disease has advanced to a considerable extent, succeed in producing a cure, and there- fore it is desirable to wait the event before any further operation is undertaken. Should this however prove insufficient, it will be necessary that the external shell of the bone be removed by means of a saw, and that the cartilage which it contains be dislodged by an elevator. If the integuments be carefully pre- served, little deformity follows; and thus by a simple operation, destruction, otherwise inevita- ble, is prevented. The operation performed, on the 21st of No- vember, in the case of Elizabeth Hall, above193 ON EXOSTOSIS. detailed, (page 191,) I shall here describe. Ah incision was carried from half an inch below the angle of the mouth, to the lower margin of the inferior maxilla, and continued along it to its angle. The flap was then dissected up, and a uniform tumor was exposed, of a hard consist- ence, composed of thickened periosteum upon the outer surface, and of a thin, bony, and elastic shell within it. The surface of this bony nest I with diflicultv removed with a knife; and thus exposed a considerable bed of carti- lage, occupying the place of the cancellated structure of the lower jaw, and expanding the remaining part of the jaw into a bulky swelling. The cartilage was removed from its bony nest by means of an elevator. The inferior maxillary nerve was seen crossing the side and bottom of the cavity^ in its passage to the mental fora- men. ^ It was necessary in the operation to avoid as much as possible inflicting any injury upon this nerve, as every time it was touched it produced considerable pain. In the course of the dissec- tion, some haemorrhage occurred, and several vessels were obliged to be tied. The flap was then brought over the cavity, and united by suture and adhesive plasters. The tumor, on examination, was found to consist of cartila- ginous substance; but of a nature softer than that which is produced from the shell of bone * In describing a bone, I divide it into its shell, or solid surface, and its cancellated structure. oON EXOSTOSIS. 194 Fnns:oiis periosteal. Symptoms similar to fnnsrrms meflullary disease. The patient supported the operation extremely well. Some haemorrhage took place after she was removed to bed, and she complained of i great pain during the whole of the afternoon, in ' consequence of which an opiate was administer- ed. She suffered some pain, and was extremely irritable during the three days after the opera- tion; but as she could bear the extraction of the tooth, it was removed, and, on the 25th of November, the flap had in a great degree ad- hered, and she appeared to be suffering but little from the operation, although some discharge still continued. % I ’ Of periosteal Exostosis, This disease, like the preceding, is both of a fungous and cartilaginous kind. The former of these scarcely differs in its symptoms from the fungous exostosis of the medullaiy membrane, except that the general swelling of the limb is i less, and the particular tumor is more promi- nent; but there is the same want of sensibility in the commencement, with some pain after- i wards; the skin remains free from discoloura- tion, and has a similar tiiberculated appear- ance. Ulceration, bleeding, and sloughing, ; with great discharge ensue, and occasion the ; destruction of life, if some operation be not performed. ; The following case will illustrate the history of this disease.195 ON EXOSTOSIS. •I I ) CASE. A girl 19 years of age was admitted into Guy’s Hospital for what was at first supposed to be an enlargement of the knee-joint, but upon more particular examination, it was discovered, that the swelling occupied the lower part of the os femoris, to which it was immoveably attached. The countenance of this girl was sallow, her general health appearing extremely defective. The swelling was small at her first admission, but during the time she was in the hospital, it rapidly increased; the skin was undiscoloured, and the surface of the tumor was tuberculated, bard as bone in some parts, but elastic in others. It was at first entirely unattended with pain; but as it increased it became occasionally ex- tremely painful, and evidently re-acted upon her constitution in such a manner as to threaten her life, unless the operation of amputation should be had recourse to. The limb was con- sequently removed. Violent constitutional irri- tation succeeded to the operation, which for several days excited an apprehension for her life. When these symptoms subsided, the stump put on an unhealthy appearance. Its irrita- bility was excessive, so that she dreaded ex- tremely the approach of her medical attendants for the purpose of changing the local applica- tions. A fungus arose from the cancellated structure of the bone, which it was necessary to Case of this disease in the os fe- moris. Appear- ance and health of the patient. Amputa- tion.ON EXOSTOSIS. 196 Dissection. Dissection. destroy with caustic. Many weeks elapsed be- fore the closing of the stump, notwithstanding a sufficient quantity of integuments had been preserved. And indeed, at length, when she was discharged from the hospital, some slight ulcer- ation of its surface was still remaining: but it was thought adviseable that she should have the advantage of a more salubrious air than that of an hospital in a large town. Dissection.—The exostosis was seated at the lower part of the femur; the periosteum passed over it, and adhered strongly to its surface. The tumor itself was very firmly fixed to the external surface of the shell of the bone. It was injected minutely with size. In some parts it appeared extremely red from the injection ; in others, where the injection would not enter, it was white, so that it was found very vascular in some parts, and in others not at all so. The surface of the tumor was lobulated. The peri- osteum at one part appeared to have formed, upon its external sui'face, a tumor composed of j similar materials to that which was seated be- | tween it and the bone. I Such swellings generally are found on dissec- i tion covered with a thickened periosteum, with- | in which a white elastic substance is discovered, having numerous small spicula of bone pass- ing in radii from the surface of the original bone ; the shell of the bone is in a great part remaining: I have seen this however in some places removed by absorption. Within the cancellated structure, there appears in some instances to liave existed a slight inflamma-197 ON EXOSTOSIS. tion, for in the cancelli I have seen small por- tions of ossific matter deposited. I made a section of a tibia, on which a section of large exostosis of this kind was placed ; one half of it I immersed in diluted muriatic acid, and : found that when the phosphate of lime was re- moved, that the swelling remained of its former I'Size, and that a bed of cartilage had supported ithe bony deposit. (See Plate.) The shell of the Ibone, in the remaining portion of the section, (continued entire; spicula of bone in radii, pass- red from the shell of the bone to the periosteum, \whilst in the cancellated structure, opposite to I the seat of the exostosis, a very slight deposit of ibone in smaller nodules had taken place. What ^structures preceded the formation of the car- ttilage, I do not know; but Mr. Howship, in aan ingenious paper which he has published in tthe Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, on the egrowth of bone, has shewn, that a membranous s structure precedes the formation of cartilage i iand the deposit of ossific matter in the ordinary [formation of bone. i| We have in the collection at St. Thomas’s, a Inconsiderable number of specimens of exostoses, fcchiefly seated upon the lower part of the os I Temoris, and the upper portion of the tibia. rThose which have been macerated, exhibit ap- ijpearances similar to that which I have just de- ! sscribed, in which a section had been made; Ibut those which have been preserved moist, in '.which the soft parts have not been destroyed Appear- ’by putrefaction, present the following marks. moist pre- ! The periosteum thickened passes over the sur- 9ON EXOSTOSIS. 7 face of the swelling, to which it firmly adheres. The tumor itself occupies a great extent of sur- face between the shell of the bone and the in- ternal surface of the periosteum. The swelling is lobulated : the greater part of it is composed of a white substance, somewhat elastic, but not so firm as common cartilage: part of it is coloured by blood, and the texture of this part is softer than the rest. When injected it shews a very unequal vascularity; being in some parts rendered extremely red by the in- jection, and in others remaining white; and this 1 have observed to be the case with fun- gous swellings generally, that they are only partially organized. In their incipient state, spicLila of bone have not yet been formed in j them; but in proportion to their extent and j duration the ossific process occurs, though the | spicula are smaller and less numerous than in j the cartilaginous exostosis. In one specimen, it appears that a small portion of this fun- gous substance is thrown out upon the exter- rj nal surface of the periosteum. The medul- | lary membrane and cancellated structure of i the bone in these specimens, have not under- L gone a similar change to that which has taken ^ place upon the external surface ; but in one of the specimens, there are distinct marks of in- flammation in the medullary membrane, and in ji another, this membrane is beginning to partici- pate in the disease. The surface of the exos- tosis viewed by the microscope exhibits numer- ous vascular pores. This disease is attributed to accident; butON EXOSTOSIS. 199 .any irritation upon a bone in an unhealthy con- stitution will produce it. We have a very fine ?|specimen of it in the collection of Guy’s Hos- pital arising from an internal exfoliation of the os femoris: between the periosteum and the 'bone, in this case, instead of the cartilaginous process which accompanies internal exfoliation, ;an immense fungus is thrown out between the periosteum and the surface of the bone, shew- ing that the nature of the inflammation is de- ;termined by the state of the constitution at the nnaoment, and that a very unusual and malignant ^effect may be produced by a frequent cause of irritation. The treatment of this complaint is similar to chat required in the fungous exostosis arising from the medullary membrane j but it is only in the first dawn of the disease that we are to ?mtertain any hope of a benign influence from naedicine. It would be dishonest to assert that ,we have a knowledge at present of any me- ilicine having a specific influence over cancer ))r fungus. We may indeed improve the con- stitution a little and keep the disease at bay; 3jut once formed, it proceeds more or less ra- oidly to its fatal termination, unless prevented- :oy the operation of amputation or excision;» which the state of the constitution improved by medicine will render more safe at the moment, iind hold out a better grounded hope for the Internal exfoliation. Treatment the same as in the disease of the medul- lary mem- brane. No remedy for fungus or cancer yet known-ON EXOSTOSIS. 200 Cartilagi- nous exos- tosis of the periosteum. Admits of ^ cure from surgery. Arises from inflamma- tion. Appear- ances on dissection. Of the cartilaginous Exostosis between the Pert- osteum and the Bone. This is a very different affection to the pre- ceding, and more deserving the attention of the surgeon, since it admits of relief by operation, though sometimes with the loss of the affected limb. It originates in the inflammation of the periosteum and of the corresponding part of the bone; and a deposition of cartilage, of very firm texture, and similar to that which forms the nidus of bone in the young subject, adheres to both these surfaces. The periosteum adheres to the external surface of the swelling, and the swelling itself is attached still more strongly to the surface of the bone. AVithin this cartilage a bony matter is deposited, which is first thrown out from the original bone; it continues afterwards to be secreted as the cartilage increases in bulk; for it appears that between the periosteum and bony mass, cartilage is constantly secreted, which constitutes the exterior surface of this tumor. Thus, on dissection, we discover, 1st, The perios- teum thicker than natural; 2nd, the cartilage immediately below the periosteum; and, 3d, ossific matter deposited within the cartilage, extending from the shell of the bone nearly to the internal surface of the periosteum, still leav- ing on the surface of the swelling a thin por- tion of cartilage unossified. When the accretion of these swellings ceases, and the disease has been of long standing, they are found to consist, on their exterior surface, : ( (. > 1 t iON EXOSTOSIS. 201 of a shell of osseous matter, similar to that of the original bone of the same cancellated struc- ture, and communicating with the original cancelli of the bone. (See Plate.) Conse- quently when an exostosis has been formed in the manner here described, the shell of the original bone becomes absorbed, and can- celli are deposited in its place. In the mean time the outer surface of the exostosis acquires a shell resembling that of the bone itself. When the exostosis has been steeped in an acid, and by this means deprived of its phosphate of lime, the cartilaginous structure remains of the same form and magnitude as the diseased de- posit ; and as far as I have been able to dis- cover, it is effused precisely in the same manner Are formed , , , , 1 • 1 • 1 same as healthy bone, r rom which it appears, that manner as the formation of these excrescences differs in no respect from that of original bone, since they are composed of cartilage for their basis, and of an earthy salt to impart to them firmness and solidity; a circumstance which I have shewn for many years in my lectures.. For the most part these diseases are attended Notpainfni with very little pain, and, especially at their commencement, are but little complained of: when, however, they have acquired some con- siderable bulk, they do not fail to occasion painful sensations by their pressure upon the surrounding parts; very considerable inconve- inconveni- nience likewise frequently arises to the patients nterrupt- from the impediment and interruption they pre- sent to the action of muscles, the tendons of . j . , , ten- ■which are sometimes detained by means of them dons.ON EXOSTOSIS, 202 Skin some- times ulcerated. Most fre- quentl}’ oc- curs on the os femoris. Sometimes on the tibia. in particular positions, at other times they glide suddenly over them, attended by a snapping noise which can be distinctly heard by the by- standers, and occasioning by these means painlul and unpleasant sensations. Others again pro- duce considerable pain in the limbs when the tumor advances to the surface of tlie skin. I have seen instances of its being ulcerated from this circumstance, but the sore exhibited no signs of malignancy, as will be seen in a case which I shall presently relate, in which the ulcer formed on the surlace of the skin had not an unhealthy character. We have also a prepa- ration of exostosis upon the radius, in winch the diseased growth is exposed by common ulceration. The most frequent seat of the periosteal ex- ostosis is upon the inner side of the os femoris just above the internal condyle, and in the dir rection of the insertion ot the triceps muscles. In this situation I have seen several instances of it. (See Plate.) 1 have also seen it seated on the tibia, immediately under the insertion of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. A considerable enlargement of the bone is occasionally pro- duced upon the fibula, at its connection with the tibia; it seldom however in that situation rises into any thing like a circumscribed exostosis. After long continued courses of jnercury, when the patient has been debilitated to an extreme degree, if he exert himself much in walking, not only is this thickening of the bone of the fibula produced, but a suppuratif^e process is in- stituted, which is followed by exfoliation, andON EXOSTOSIS. lays the foundation of a very tedious, and some- times of a dangerous disease. , ’ ; At the insertion of the deltoid muscle in the < os humeri, 1 have also seen this disease occur. The periosteal exostosis occupies either a very small portion of the bone, or is extended over' : a considerable surface, sometimes nearly its ’ whole circumference, sometimes several inches of its length. The following case, extracted 1 fi'om the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, forms a circumstantial detail of its history, when it is of great magnitude. CASE. Catharine Coulson, aged 30 years, unmar- ried, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Astley Cooper, Nov. 29, 1809, on account of a firm equable and immoveable tumor situated at the upper and external part of the left arm, so high up, that on a superficial inspection, it seemed to be .connected, not only with the humerus itself, but also with the cla- vicle and scapula, rendering it probable that it had an attachment to the glenoid cavity of the latter bone. The arm, however, could be moved forwards and backwards; but in consequence of the weight of the tumor, and the great at- tenuation, and perhaps complete obliteration of part of the deltoid muscle, produced by its pressure, the voluntary motion upwards was lost. On minute examination it was ascertained, that this enlargement arose from the superior part of the humerus j but as symptoms of inflamma-ON EXOSTOSIS. tion of the shoulder-joint were present, a doubt still remains, whether the morbid action, which caused its formation, had commenced in those portions of bone, which entered into the com- position of that part. That the humerus itself was diseased, seemed evident, from an obvious , enlargement and irregularity, felt at its inner part, commencing high up in the axilla, and ending about four inches from that point. The j circumference of the tumor, at its most bulging ! part (the admeasurement being taken parallel with the arm) was 2.5| inches ; and a line car- ried round its most prominent part, so as to ' surround both it and the arm, measured 24- inches. This swelling was in general covered merely by common integuments; it was extremely painful when handled, and the skin over it felt much hotter than natural; upon it many large veins were ramified. Motion of the arm gave i considerable pain, which was referred both to ; the tumor and shoulder-joint; and the patient j complained much of the weight she had to sup- port. Her appetite was impaired, and she had some degree of fever. After her admission, the account collected of the commencement and progress of this disease, was the following : about three years and a half previously, after having once struck the summit of the shoulder forcibly against a wall, after- wards fallen on it, and repeatedly received blows on the same part in mangling, she ob- served a firm tumor, about the size of a nutmeg, at the superior part of the arm. Subsequentlyy ■* j ON EXOSTOSIS. to this, she was always affected with pain about the shoulder when employing the limb freely. The enlargement gradually increased; and about two years and a half before, when it was equal in size to a common tea-cup, she was admitted into Guy’s Hospital by Mr. Cooper. She re- ' mained under his care six weeks, during which time, repeated blisters were had recourse to without benefit. In about six months, she : again applied for admission, and was re-admit- ted under Mr. Cooper. The tumor had then .'attained the size of a pint bason ; and the mo*- rtion of the arm had become less free than on tthe former occasion, though not so considerable sas to prevent the general use of the limb. For tthis reason, and because her constitution had ssuffered little, she would by no means consent tto the operation of amputation at the shoulder- j joint, the necessity of which was strongly urged; !’ iind at the expiration of eleven months, she [ ^quitted the Hospital. Within the j^ear and half antecedent to her last admission, the augmenta- .ion of the tumor had been very rapid ; but she Hid not notice the enlargement mentioned, to nave been observed in the humerus itself^ till iiix or seven weeks previously. Although her nights had been long restless, her general nealth continued good till the 26th of Novem- ner, when she was attacked with severe pain in Ihe tumor (which felt hot) and about the shoul- } Her, with loss of appetite and languor.' From the period of admission to the 8th ^Oecember, blood-letting from the veins over he tumor was twice employed, which dimi-ON EXOSTOSIS. ‘206 nished the pain and tenderness : the blood was sizy. As the patient’s arm had now become use- less, and her sufferings, both from the weight, and the symptoms under which she laboured, were very great, she was prevailed on, without much difficulty, to undergo an operation, which was speedily concluded on, and performed on the 8th of December. The state of the deltoid muscle before mentioned, prevented the pos- sibility of executing it in the manner usually directed, for no flap, except of the common integuments, could have been preserved. It was concluded, therefore, that the most ad- viseable plan would be to aim at covering the wound with those portions of integument and muscles, which anteriorly and posteriorly con- nected the arm to the trunk of the body. The first step of the operation, was to secure the artery. An incision therefore was made in its direction, high up in the axilla, two liga- tures put on it, and secured ; when a division was made between them. The application of a ■ ligature on the part of the artery most distant from the heart, was to prevent the possibility of any haemorrhage from such anastomosing vessels as empty themselves into it. An in- cision was next commenced, immediately an- terior to the acromion process of the scapula brought forwards, and ended in the axilla, passing just below the end of the artery on • which the ligature had been applied j and another was carried.from the same point pos- teriorly, and made to meet the former one.207 ON EXOSTOSIS. The next part of the operation consisted in the gradual division of the muscles surroundins: o o the joint, and the application of ligatures to such vessels as it appeared at all probable might furnish free haemorrhage. These, being nu- merous and large, in consequence of the great size of the tumor, it became necessary to se- cure ten arteries. As a further precaution also against any bleeding which might have taken place, either from returning vessels, owing to the circulation kept up by undivided branches of arteries, or from regurgitation, the veins accompanying the axillary and posterior cir- cumflex arteries were tied by two ligatures each, and divided at the intervening space. The capsular ligament being at length laid bare, an incision was made into it, and the cavity of the joint exposed, which was filled with coagulable lymph, of a reddish co- lour, and gelatinous consistence, mixed with some serum or synovia. The arm being re- moved, the glenoid cavity was accurately exa- rmined, and presented no mark of disease : the iinternal surface of the capsular ligament was rmore vascular than natural, but the articulating •surfaces were not destroyed. The cartilage was pared from the glenoid cavity, in order to fa- ccilitate the process of granulation ; and after aill haemorrhage was stopped, the integuments vwere brought togetlier, and secured in appo- sition, by three sutures and straps.” It is not necessary here to detail the circum- dlstances of the case subsequent to the operation,ON EXOSTOSIS. 208 they have already been described at length in the Second Volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. The wound was cicatrized about the 18th of April, but the patient still remained impressed with the idea of having the arm, and that she could move the fingers. Attempts, however, at such motions, were always attended with pain and sense of pricking of the whole extremity; which, as before, when she is in the recumbent posture, feels to be placed over the breast, but when erect, it appears to be placed posteriorly. Dissection of the Tumor, , The weight of the tumor, including that of the os humeri, was eleven pounds. The periosteum, in a considerably thickened state, covered the surface of the swelling. The principal part of the tumor was composed of cartilage, which adhered firmly to the exter- nal surface of the bone, and to the inner side of the periosteum. The bone was much increased in its diameter. Where the tumor was attached to it, numerous processes of bone passed into the cartilaginous matter. The cancellated structure of the bone was obliterated opposite the disease, and a red pulpy mass was found in the cancelli, at that part at which the otherwise healthy bone joined the diseased.209 ON EXOSTOSIS. I have lately examined the preparation made from this case with considerable care, and on making a section of the os humeri, found it spread into a large and very solid bony mass at tleast three times its natural size. Its cancellated structure nearly obliterated by cartilaginous and Lossific deposit. The bone towards the axilla is less extended than that part which is co- vered by the deltoid muscle. On the outer sside of the enlarged humerus, there is an im- Miense mass of cartilage, in which numerous oossific depositions have taken place. The pe- rriosteum covers the swelling, and adheres firmly to its external surface : the swelling is composed of one third bone and two thirds cartilage, with ony masses intermixed. There is also in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital a very fine reparation of this disease^ made by Mr. South, from a patient whose leg was amputated by i?Mr. Chandler. With respect to the cause of the periosteal ^exostosis, which has but a small base, and which follows the course of the tendons or ligaihents, aas that in the direction of the triceps fern oris und gracilis, I am of opinion that it arises from s|p3xertions disproportionate to the strength of the subject. The tendons which are fixed in jfitthe bone becoming sprained by over exertion, iinflammation is excited in them, which is thence ccommunicated to the periosteum and bone, and aa deposition is consequently produced in the; Erection of the tendons sprained and inflarhed, lupon which the weight of the body is more is Causes.ON EXOSTOSIS. 210 Exostosis from pres sure. Treatment. Similar to that of me- dullary exostosis. Oxymur. Jljycir. cum decoct, sarsap. particularly thrown. We see also in horses that the disease denominated splent is pro- duced by sprains of the ligaments. This disease is exostosis. The same effect also is produced in the human subject by a sprain of the ligament which connects the fibula with the tibia. Those who are attentive in observing disease must have seen enlargements of the i fibula at its lower part, frequently succeeding considerable exertions in walking, pending, or 5 immediately succeeding to, a long continued course of mercury, as 1 have already observed. Blows also occasionally produce this disease : 1 have known an enlargement of the tubercle of the tibia, produced by a fall upon the knee, continue for many years. I have seen likewise an exostosis of the metacarpal bone of the little finger occasioned by a sharp blow. Pressure is also sometimes a cause of exos- tosis : Mr. Cline, Mr. Hutchinson, and myself,^ were consulted respecting a tumor of this kind, upon the symphysis of the lower jaw, which owed its origin to a considerable degree of pres- sure long applied to the chin. The periosteal exostosis admits of remedy, from internal medicine, from external applica- tions, and when considerably advanced, from surgical operation. The internal and local treatment of these cases differs in no respect from that which we have already given, when speak- ing of the medullary exostosis. The common alterative plan of small doses of mercury, with decoction of sarsaparilla, combined with stimu-ON EXOSTOSIS. 211 .-lating plasters, as the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro, with the view of promoting absorption of that which has been effused, by its stimulating qualities and by its pressure, are I the means which are generally adopted. But in this instance, as in the former, my experience ^oes not furnish me with an example of such ■remedies having any influence, except in the very commencement of the disease ; and too •often the insensibility of these swellings pre- \ vents their being discovered until they have ac- quired some magnitude. When these tumors have become of con- ?siderable bulk, they sometimes remain station- aary and produce no inconvenience: but at cothers, they continue to grow, occasion consi- cderable pressure upon the surrounding soft Iparts, interfere with their motions, and render i aan operation necessary. I have known a gen- ttleman who had an exostosis upon the inner rpart of the thigh bone, suffer great inconve- rnience from it in riding, and he was under the mecessity of having a leather pad contrived to vwear upon the inner side of his knee, to pre- iWent the pressure of the saddle upon the unna- Itural growth of bone. The operation for their removal is performed Operation. [| fby means of a saw, and may be effected with comparatively little pain to tlie patient, and ^generally, I believe, without any danger, if the ; mature of the disease be well discriminated, by ! ^distinguishing the fungous from the cartilagi- ! nious swelling, i p 221^ ON EXOSTOSIS, Mr. Ma- . chelPs saw. / Mr. Mach ell, surgeon, Rider-street, St. James’s, has ihvented a saw which answers the purpose of sawing to a great depth exceedingly well, by which the operntion is much facilitated, as this instrument admits of being applied amongst the muscles without doing them any injury. The form of this saw will be best explained by con- sulting the annexed plate. I have had the po- sition of the handle altered in order to enable me to support and apply it more easily, but in every other respect the instrument is delineated precisely according to his invention. Beside the saw, it will be necessary for the surgeon to be provided with a strong pair of nippers for the purpose of removing any irregular frag- ments of bone that may remain after the exos- tosis has been removed. The highly ingenious instrument of Dr. Jeffries of Glasgow, called the chain saw, may also be sometimes employed with considerable advantage. The following cases will serve better to illus- trate this operation than any separate detail of the operation itself. CASE. Sarah Hart, aged 48, was admitted int6 Guy’s Hospital, 25th June, 1800, under the care of Mr. William Cooper, at that time sur- geon to this hospital. She was the subject of a large exostosis which grew out of the anterior part of the tibia. When I succeeded to theON EXOSTOSI9, 7 ^urg^oncy of that liospital, she became my pa- tient, and was the first person on whom J per- formed any operation in that institution. In answer to my inquiries respecting the first ap- pearance of this tumor, she stated that it had begun in her childhood, and had now existed forty-four years. It had acquired the magni- tude which I have endeavoured to express in the plate subjoined to this paper, but was of the form of an inverted pyramid, the apex being attached to the tibia, and considerably narrower than the base, which constituted the surface of the exostosis. A small ulcer was seated on its external surface. It was not, nor indeed had it ever at any time been extremely painful, and what little pain she had sutFered was of the obtuse kind. As the ulcer above mentioned rendered her apprehensive of ill consequences, and I had represented to her 4 4hat she could not hope to obtain relief from any other means than that of sawing oflT the tumor, she readily submitted to the operation. I made an elliptical incision through the in- Operation, teguments, preserving enough of them to cover again the surface of the tibia after the exostosis should have been removed. When the skin was turned back sufficiently to expose to view the surface of the original bone, 1 attempted to saw through the exostosis by means of a small metacarpal saw, but found the structure of die tumor of too solid a nature to admit of an ira- jpression being made upon it by that instrument; I was consequently obliged to have recourse toON EXOSTOSIS. 214f the common amputating saw in order to effect my purpose, sawing first in a direction from the upper part of the tibia, and then from the lower part, so as to make the section meet in the centre, and in this manner the exostosis was readily detached. Little blood was lost during the operation, nor did the patient suffer much pain. I endea- voured by approximating the integuments to unite the wound by adhesion, but did not succeed. Granulations of a very healthy na- ture arose from the surface of the wound, and six weeks after the operation, two small por- tions of bone exfoliated ; the patient not only recovered from the operation, but regained also the perfect use of the limb. CASE. The result of the foregoing case gratified me exceedingly ; for I felt a hope that exostosis, when seated on any accessible part of the body, might be safely removed by an operation similar to that before described: but I have a case now to relate v/hich proved by no means so fortu- nate in its result. This case, however, was of the fungous and not of the cartilaginous kind. A man who lived near to me when I re- sided in the city, had a large tumor grow- ing out of his forehead. Anxious to examine it, I called upon him, and found him la- bouring under a swelling of the magnitude, when compared to the size of the head, of thatON EXOSTOSIS. represented in the plate. It had been growing several years, the skin over it exhibited a blush of inflammation. Its fixed state, and the firmness it presented to the touch, convinced me that it was exostosis; yet at the same time it was less resisting and more vascular than the cartilaginous exostosis usually is. I re- lated to the patient the case above given, stated to him its favourable result, and ad- vised him to become a patient in the hospi- tal, where he might undergo a similar opera- tion ; as, without it, I conceived that the disease must necessarily prove fatal. To my advice he readily assented, and submitted to the operation 1 had recommended to him a few days after his admission into the hospital. I began by making an incision through the integuments directly over the tu- mor, from the surface of which there issued a very considerable quantity of blood. I conti- nued to turn aside the integuments until I reached the surface of the cranium, and then with a metacarpal saw, succeeded in cutting through a substance much softer than common cartilage, containing numerous but slender spicula of bone within it. Each part of the swelling bled freely ; but on bringing the in- teguments over the surface, and making use of pressure upon them, the bleeding from the bone was stopped, and it was only necessary to secure a few vessels of the integuments. Upon exa- mination of the removed tumor, it appeared softer than cartilage, although it contained216 ON EXOSTOSIS. some osseous spicula, and I was able readily to break it down with my finger. On the following day the patient had a con- sidejable degree of fever, which continued to increase until the fourth day, when he became comatose, and on the sixth day he died. Upon examination of the body, I found that the swell- ing occupied the internal as well as the external table ot the cranium it extended through both, and affected the dura mater which had several fungous projections proceeding from it; and that the inflammation which had been excited by the operation, had extended to the membranes of the brain opposite to the part where the disease had been seated. This complaint seems to have orisrinated in the diploQ of the os frontis, and to have pro- duced an effusion both between the pericra- nium and the skull, and between the skull and the dura mater. The swelling upon the outer part of the head, was, however, much larger than that which had arisen from the inner table. It was evident, too, that this ease must ulti- mately, and at no distant period, have proved fatal, if no operation had been performed. An exostosis on the external table of the skull, growing slowly, very little vascular, unat- tended with any considerable pain, may safely be rendered the subject of an operation ; but a swelling of more rapid growth, red upon its sur- face, shewing signs of considerable vascularity, and attended with great pain shooting through the brain, is one for which I should now hesi- tate to perform an operation.ON EXOSTOSIS. 217 CASE. Miss E. O. 11 years of age, was brought to my house in July 1817, by Mr. Prior, Surgeon of Clapham, on account of having an exostosis on the thigh-bone : it was seated a little above the inner condyle of the os femoris in the line of the insertion of the triceps muscle. The account she gave me was, that it was accidentally discovered about eight months before she applied to me. At first, it did not interfere with her daily exercises, and it pro- duced no pain on walking; but from the month of May last she found some difficulty in bending the limb. Mr. Mortimer, Surgeon, of Bristol, wrote to me, that he was requested to examine Miss E. 0."s thigh in the beginning of the year, and found a small tumor about two inches above the inner condyle of the femur, directly - under the seat of the garter. This tumor was evidently an osseous enlarge- ment, insensible to pressure, and by no means painful. The skin was perfectly free from in- flammation, and there was no reason to sup- pose that the tumor had acquired any addition to its bulk for years. Its origin was unknown j it occasioned no pain or inconvenience what- ever, nor did it in any way impede her walking or dancing, or produce any degree of lameness. Mr. Mortimer’s view of the case was perfectly correct. In the month of May last she first found that on going up stairs, she was under the necessity of advancing her right foot on eachON EXOSTOSIS. 2 IS Stair; and the same in descending, when she was obliged to proceed sideways, being unable, without great inconvenience, to bend the limb. Whilst sitting down, and more especially on a low seat, she felt considerable pain in bending the knee : and after having sat tor some time, she experienced pain and difficulty on rising. Her lameness, just before her journey to Lon- - don, had considerably increased, and her leg had become painful down to the heel. When she attempted to run, she felt a snap upon the swelling, as if a cord had slipped out of its pulley, which was owing to the tendon gliding over the projecting part of the bone. On Monday, tlie 21st of July, an operation was performed for the purpose of removing the swelling, in the presence of Mr. Prior and Mr. Plowman. An incision was made over the pro- jecting portion of the bone, and the muscles drawn aside from its surface : the periosteum, which was much thicker than usual, was divided by the knife, and turned aside from the exosto- sis, which was covered by a bed of cartilage, in which bony matter had not yet been de- posited ; and this was about the thickness of |- of an inch. The exostosis was next cleared of the soft parts from the surface of the thigh-bone upon.which it grew, and a spatula was passed down to confine the muscles from interfering with the saw. The saw was then attempted to be used without the forceps, but it could not be well fixed : the forceps were therefore added to it, and the bone was sawn through. Some irregularity remained upon the thigh-bone.ON EXOSTOSIS. which r endeavoured to remove by means of a ‘Saw recommended by Mr. Hey, but the muscles f interfered with its employment, in consequence -of the depth at which the ,bone was seated; jand 1 removed it readily, by means of a pair of Ibone nippers. No vessel of any importance was wounded in rthis operation, nor was there any necessity for aappiying a ligature. The edges of the wound l\were approximated, and retained by means of aadhesive piasters; and an evaporating lotion was applied. On the 22nd she had some fever, which on tthe 23d had subsided. On the 24th she was carried to the sofa, after which she experienced no further inconvenience i'om the operation ; and before leaving town had entirely lost the painful sensations which ad previously existed. CASE. James Aris was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, August 13, 1817, with an exostosis occupying Tom one to three inches of the thigh-bone, ibove its internal condyle, which felt, through the integuments and muscles, about the size of the finger, and which was directed rather up- wards, not being exactly at right angles with the thigh-bone. His age was 24 years; and 14 years ago, while jumping over a post, he irst discovered pain in the part which after- wards formed the seat of the disease. The >ain lasted but a very short time, but it led220 V ON EXOSTOSIS. him to examine particularly the part, when he perceived a small and hard swelling. This tumor gradually increased, and at length began to interfere with the motion of the limb, so as to render him anxious to have advice respecting it. When walking, he felt what he described as a snapping in the part, like a cord slip- ping from a pulley, which probably arose from the extension of the sartorius muscle, and its sudden slipping over the swelling. When he placed the limb quite straight, he found a difficulty in bending it; and when bent it was almost e(jually difficult to extend it; each flex- ion and extension producing a snapping noise, which could be distinctly heard. On considering the inconvenience which the swelling had produced, and that the disease was obviously on the increase, I recommended to him the operation which I had performed in the preceding Case, and advised him to become a patient in the Hospital, and to submit to one of a similar kind. He procured admission im- mediately. On the 22nd of August I performed the operation. The man was lying upon a table with his thigh slightly bent, and I made an incision through the integuments over the swell- ing, and thus exposed the sartorius muscle, which appeared to have gained an increase in its breadth, and to be incapable of being suf- ficientl}^ drawn aside to completely expose the tumor without considerable violence ; 1 there- fore made an incision through it in the direc- tion of its fibres, sufficiently large to allow the exostosis to pass through the opening. The peri-ON EXOSTOSIS. 221 i-osteum whicli covered the swelling, was theft exposed, and being cut through, and turned aside, a surface of cartilage was laid bare, and beneath it a large process of bone. Mr. Mach ell, the inventor of the saw, who was present at the operation, himself applied it, and with a very few turns of it removed the osseous tumor. The edges of the wound were brought together, and union attempted by adhesion. In the evening of that day he had some symptoms of constitutional irritation, and some : blood was taken from his arm. On the follow* ing day, he took a brisk purging medicine, and after this time no unpleasant symptoms ap- peared. My dresser, Mr. Humble, informed me that the wound was as nearly as possible cicatrized i on the 12th of September, and he was dis- I charged from the Hospital a few days after- i wards, and continues free from the inconve- i niences which he had experienced prior to tbe I operation. I CASE. r i "A l! i' f t t Mr. George Alston, aged 18, about four years 4go perceived a small tuv.or on t!m outer part of the fibula, an inch and half below its head, which continued to increase for two years, till it attained the size of a large chesnut: in twelve hionths after its first ajipearanee, the fibular nerve became affected from the pressure of the tumor, producing uneasy sensations on the sur* face of the toes, and paralyzing the peroneal222 ON EXOSTOSIS. muscles, the flexors of the foot, and extensors of i. the toes. The tumor had been free irom pain, f and for the last two years stationary. 1 was consulted respecting this case, and as the pa- tient had been under the judicious care of Mr. i Harold of Nayland, without any diminution of the disease, I advised an operation, which was performed by Mr. Living in the following man- ner on the 19th of January. A crucial incision through the integuments having laid bare the tu- mor, the fibular nerve was found passing through its centre, which was divided ; and the neck of j I the tumor being very short, Hey’s saw was em- I ployed in preference to the circular. The wound ! | was not completely healed until the end of four ;' weeks, having been somewhat retarded by an ; i irregular state of the bowels. On the nerve being divided in the operation, the pain in his toes | immediately ceased, but the diminished action I of the muscles on the anterior and outer part of the leg, still continues (April 16th); yet he is enabled to pursue his profession without any i material inconvenience. CASE. j H. W. Brpnner, a German gentleman, 21 years of age, in the year 1813 first perceived a tumor on the os pubis on the left side, about an ^ inch from the symphysis; its size being then about that of a filbert. In two years it had acquired twice its former magnitude. In 1816 the patient came to England, and at the end of this year the swelling greatly increased^ when heON EXOSTOSIS. 223 -began to feel pain in the left leg. Not speak- : ing the English language fluently, he neglected applying to any professional person. In 1817, the pain still augmented, and though not violent, was exhausting him by continued irritation. It ' was particularly felt immediately above and be- ( • low the knee, very slightly in the hip, and it some- times extended to the foot. In the month of i .January he applied to me, and I found the disease i ’was a large exostosis on the pubes. On the 13th j lof March he submitted to have the tumor i jremoved, which was in part effected by Ma- ichelPs saw and in part by Hey’s. On the 10th of April the wound was healed, and on the 22d Ihe was able to walk two miles without .suffering ipain or complaining of any inconvenience, ex- icepting that the skin felt tightly bound doWR lupon the bone. It appears then, that bones, after operations, lunite by adhesion to the soft parts; if adhesion ccannot be produced, healthy gramdations ariso (from the surface of the bone, and cicatriza- tion takes place upon these, as upon other parts of the body ; and that there is reason to believe, that these structures may, with pro- perly constructed instruments, become much more the subjects of operations, than they have hitherto been considered.Cl,-. , /fj,i - ) j»225 EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. Fig. 1. Shews the relative size of an exostosis of the leg of a woman, successfully re- moved. See Case. Fig. 2. The os femoris, with an exostosis grow- ing from it, in the most frequent seat of that disease. Fig. 3. The section of an exostosis, which had become stationary, a shell formed upon its surface like that of the original bone, tlie original shell absorbed, and a cancellated structure seen passing into the exostosis. Fig. 4. A view of the head of a man who had a large fungous exostosis, which was unsuc- cessfully removed. See Case. Fig. 5. View of an exostosis removed by the saw, in one of the Cases which I have de- scribed ; its surface was covered by carti- lage ; its interior was of bone ; I put this exostosis in a diluted mui'iatic acid j and having removed the ossific matter, found ir\ every part of it a bed of cartilage. Fig. 6. Exostosis removed from Aris; its extre- mity formed a cartilaginous ball. See Case. Fig. 1. Machelfs saw. The * forceps on the sides of the saw, by which the bone is held, regulated by a screw, a winch turns the saw by concealed wheels. Fig. 8. A lateral view of the saw. Fig. 9. A portion of a large exostosis, shewing its cartilage deprived of the phosphate of lime, by immersing it in an acid. Q226 EXPLANATION OF PLATE IX. Fig. 1. Shews a large fungous exostosis of the thigh-bone, arising from the cancelli, the surface of the bone, and connected with the internal surface of the periosteum, which passes over the swelling. Fig. 2. Fungous exostosis from the cancelli, the bone partially absorbed by the pressure and growth of the fungus ; a, the bonej the fungus. Fig. 3. Shews a bone immensely expanded and partially absorbed, by the pressure of a dis- ease of the medullary membrane and can- cellated structure. Fig. 4. A view of the tibia expanded, but forming a shell; over the tumor, ashappen- ed in the case of Elizabeth Hall. See Case, page 191. Fig. 5. Periosteal exostosis of the cartilaginous kind; composed of bone and cartilage placed between the surface of the bone and periosteum. Fig. 6. A section of ^g. 5, immersed in a di- luted muriatic acid, and the cartilage left which forms in these cases the nidus for bone. These preparations are in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital.ON WOUNDS AND LIGATURES OP VEINS. Bv Mr. TRAVERS. The inflaimnation to which the interior tunic of the veins is liable, was first distinctly pointed out by Mr. Hunter. The serious consequences arising from venesection had been supposed to proceed from other causes, previous to Mr. Hunter’s Essay on this subject, in the Medical and Chirurgical Transactions. They were as- cribed to a wound of the fibres of the cutaneous nerves, or the prick of the neighbouring ten- dons, or of the fascia upon which the veins lie, an • opinion maintained by some writers even after tthe publication of Mr. Hunter’s paper*. In- iflammation of the cellular texture, the absor- Ibents, or the fascia may occur from any wound ipenetrating those parts, and it therefore now tand then appears after venesection, as Mr. .Abernethy has shewn in his Essay on the occa- ssional ill consequences of that operation t. It may happen that the fibres of the cutaneous nerves may be wounded, as Mr. Abernethy has * B. Bell’s Surgeiy, Vol. III. p. 122. t Surgical and Physiological Essays. Lond. 1793. Part 11. Q 2 Inflaimna- tion of veins first described by Mr. Hunter. Inflamma- tion of other parts after v. s. described by Mr. Abernethy. Of narves. fON WOUNDS AND 228 Inflamma- tion after tying and dividing the saphena, a modern ob- servation. also demonstrated ; but the symptoms charac- terising an inflammation of the nerve, are very rare, as a consequence of venesection, and our observation of the edects of wounds of nerves, does not lead us to attribute any consequences to this accident, at all resembling those which have been in many instances shewn to arise from wounds of veins. Similar serious consequences to those which have been observed after bleeding, have upon several late occasions, followed the operations of tying and dividing the vena saphena majoiv in cases of varix, and have created a general distrust of the safety of the practice ; yet the ancients treated the veins with singular rude- ness—pricking, cutting, tying, and burning them, without ever adverting to any other than the mechanical effects of such operations upon the diseases for which they were instituted*. And that this alarming and often fatal inflam- mation of the inner coat of veins, should so long have escaped the notice of the profession, ap- pears most extraordinary, if we consider how much it was formerly the practice of surgeons to tie the veins after amputation. Many of the older operating surgeons in the country, army, and navy, still adopt the practice, and are un- willing to believe that it can ever be productive * Hippocrates punctured varices. iEtius, Paulus, Avi- cenna and Albucasis describe the operation of excision. This seems to have been the practice of Fallopius and Severinus. Fabricius Aquapendens and Fabricius Hiklanus inclosed the varicose vein between two ligatures, and emptied it by inci- sion. Ambrose Pare, Petit, Dionis and others emptied it by punctures and brought its sides into contact by compression. 8 V •LIGATURES OF VEINS. 2'2Qf of mischief. I have frequently seen the femoral vein tied without any obvious ill effect; and one of the most experienced and successful operators in the West of England, lately assured me, that he had been in the constant practice of tying the main vein distinctly from the ar- tery in amputations. Neither do the continen- tal surgeons entertain any apprehension of a ligature upon a vein, nor are they, I believe, in any degree aware of the extensive inflammation to which the interior tunic of these vessels is in consequence exposed. Having witnessed a few fatal cases, and heard of others, I felt impressed with the importance of the subject, and determined to investigate it by inquiry and experiment. I shall detail a few cases, that my readers rnay also feel its import- "ance, and then offer the observations which I have collected from these sources, towards its illustration. To my brother. Dr. Travers, of Newark, I am obliged for the annexed case, which Occurred some years ago, under his personal observation, CASE. Ophthalmic depot. Military Hospital,' Bog- ^ataUase^ nor, 1810.—Hugh Johnson, aged 33, consti- vein from tution much impaired by hard service. Ad- mitted 15th of May; was bled in the me- dian basilic vein of the right arm, and a dossil of lint and fillet were afterwards applied in the usual manner ; some purgative medicine was administered, and he was placed on lowON WOUNDS AND 230 diet; on the 18th was convalescent, and dis- charged. 24th, re-admitted; the ophthalmia having returned with increased violence, was cupped on the temples ; after the operation he complained to me of pain in the right arm, and said that the wound made in the vein on the ISth, had never closed; that soon after the bleeding, the bandage becoming loose, he ap- plied some adhesive plaster; this had also soon rubbed off, and for some days the orifice made by the lancet had been unprotected. He had from the 16th felt pain, which now becoming severe, he was induced to mention it. Upon examination there was a small open wound, with everted edges, and a slight discharge of pus; the pain extended up the arm in the course of the vein, and he had a quick pulse. A poultice was applied to the part, a fomenta- tion to the arm, and he was purged and placed on tea diet. 25th, more pain, vein appears enlarged, much redness and tension of the arm; wound as yesterday. A good deal of fever pre- sent. R Calomelanos, pulv. antimon. a a gr. iv. cons, rosae, q. s. ut. f. bolus statim sumen- dus.—Admoveantur brachio hirudines xij.-r- Poultice and fomentation to be continued.— 26th, was visited by the staff surgeon, arm less painful, tension and swelling greatly reduced; wound nearly closed; has had three copious alvine evacuations, and appears upon the whole better, though by no means free from fever. Poultice and fomentation ordered to be dis- continued, and a spirituous lotion to be applied to the arm. Sumat mist, camphorae, ter. die. 7LIGATURES OF VEINS. 27th, much the same as yesterday, wound is quite closed. 28th, arm free from pain, but the fever continues, and is now distinctly typhoid. After this day the constitutional symptoms ra- pidly increased, without any material change in the appeafance of the arm. The usual remedies were administered, without any benefit, and on the 6th of June, the case terminated fatally. Examination, 7th of June.—Puncture in the median ba- silic vein closed; no other appearance of in- jury inflicted by the lancet. The wounded vein appeared much enlarged, owing to an un- usual thickening and adhering of the surround- ing cellular substance. Internally pus was found occupying the mediana longa for about two i inches below the origin of the median cephalic j and basilic, and a similar appearance was traced j through the whole course of the humeral vein to ! the axilla. There was besides an irregular de- i posit of lymph which adhered to the lining [ membrane of the vein. Before passing under the clavicle about an inch, the vein abruptly ipresented its natural appearance, and there was no sign of disease between that point and the heart. This organ was healthy, except a small circumscribed patch of lymph upon its anterior fsurface, and a similar deposition upon the op- iposed surface of the pericardium. A small <quantity of fluid was found in the cavity of the ’latter, and in both sides of the chest. About the same time a similar case occurred ^ • f*3 at Selsea, another station of the ophthalmic i depot, the particulars of which 1 am unable to232 ON ^VOUNDS AND ?atal case of inflamed vein from V. s. 001011111010310 ; but this fact is strongly impress ed upon nw mind, that, throughout it bore a very close resemblance to the one which I have related. Mr. Broughton, of Argyll-street, Surgeon to the St. George’s and St. James’s Dispensary, has.related the particulars of a similar case with great clearness in Mr. Hodgson’s work, on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins. CASE. \ “ A robust soldier, 36 years of age, was bled in the arm for ophthabnia, which was consider- ably relieved by the operation. A'degree of fe- ver, however, came on, and gradually increased. On the seventeenth day after the bleeding his . pulse was one hundred and twenty in a minute, and feeble ; his skin was hot; his tongue co- vered with a brown fur ; his respiration difficult; he complained of great prostration of strength, and pain in his head, back, and extremities. The wound in the vein had healed, but the day after the bleeding, great swelling and pain com- menced in the arm, and gradually extended up- wards. He was bled in the opposite arm, and various medicines were administered. The symp- toms continued with very little alteration, until the twenty-third day, when a painful swelling was observed above the clavicle ; and in a few days afterwards, another soft diffused swelling was discovered underneath the angle of the lower jaw. The symptoms increased slowJy; respiration became more painful and difficult;233 LIGATURES OF VEINS. the pulse was seldom less than 120; he became delirious, and died in the course of the seventh week after the bleeding. The following appearances were observed , upon dissection: the cephalic vein at the part where it had been punctured in the first in- stance, resembled an artery in the thickness of its coats, and in retaining a circular form when cut across; below the punctured part it was healthy. About an inch above the puncture its cavity was obliterated ; the obliteration ex- J tended to the shoulder; the branches which y communicated with the cephalic vein at the ( bend of the arm were healthy; the absorbent 1 glands above the clavicle were enlarged and i| hardened ; the internal jugular vein was much enlarged, thickened, and indurated ; the effects i of inflammation were apparent throughout its [ whole course ; it had the external appearances I of an artery, though larger than any artery, I except the aorta ; the subclavian, axillary, and j brachial veins, to the bend of the arm, exhibited II similar appearances. The external jugular and a subclavian veins were filled with pus ; when slit 'll open, they w'ere found to be much thickened and lined wuth lymph. Many of the smaller 'H veins were in a similar condition. There w:as ) I so much inflammation, adhesion, and indura- i|| tion in the upper part of the arm that it was ‘I extremely difficult to trace the vessels, and de- J tach them from their connections; the vena t| cava superior was healthy; the diseased ap- il pearances were not gradually lost, but termin- I ated abruptly; the heart was healthy; the fj lungs contained some small abscesses. A se- i ION WOUNDS AND 234 rolls fluid with flakes of lymph floating in it, was contained in the cavities of the thorax ; the lungs adhered to the pleura costalis, partially on the left side, but more extensively on the right; the structure of the brain was natural, but more serum than is usual was found in the ventricles; the veins of the pia mater were tur- gid with blood ; the vena inagna Galeni, and the sinuses were remarkably loaded.” Persons labouring under inflammatory dis- eases are subject to inflammation of the wound after bleeding. Two examples of this fact have occurred since this paper was published. The one a case of acute inflammation of the chest which proved fatal; the other of inflamed in- testine in a strangulated hernia. CASE. Henry Pennock, aged 22 years, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, on the 4th of March, for an ulcer of the leg. During the healing of the sore, he was attacked with symptoms of pneu- monia ; a vein was opened in each arm, and the wound bound up as usual. From an incautious use of the right arm, a hemorrhage ensued on the third day after the venesection; he com- plained of pain in that arm, the orifice was in- flamed, and the vein felt cord-like from the in- duration of the surrounding cellular membrane. Pressure in the course of the vein occasioned a discharge of pus at the orifice; a fomentation and poultice was applied, and the inflammation uad nearly subsided, when an aggravation of the inflammatory disease of the chest proved rapidly fatal on the fifth day from the venesection.LIGATURES OF VEINS. J^xaminaiion, The orifice in the left arm was slightly in- flamed. In the right arm, at the bend of the elbow, an abscess was found 5 and the orifice in the integuments was enlarged by the ulcerative process. The orifice in the vein was closed; its edges having a whitened appearance, as if lymph had been thrown out. The vein for about an inch below, and four inches above, was filled up by a coagulum, which, when re- moved, discovered the internal coat of the vein to have an inflammatory blush over its-whole surface, but this blush did not extend higher tthan about four or five inches. The interior of :the vein above was healthy. The whole surface of the pleura was coated Iby a thick peel of recently deposited lymph. '^The lungs contained numerous vomicae. There \was a considerable effusion into the cavities of jtthe chest; the heart and abdominal viscera were healthy. CASE. George Davidson, aged 27, sailor, was ad- mitted on the 14th of April, into Saint Thomas’s l iospital, for a strangulated inguinal hernia, re-, jjuiring operation. This was performed with per- tect success by Mr. Henry Cline. He had been oled to the amount of a pint from the right arm nreviously to his admission, and as a sufficient i ilow of blood could not be procured from the Aame orifice, a vein was opened in the left arm, ind thirty ounces drawn from a free opening. In hhe evening he complained of pain in the latter'I 236 ON WOUNDS AND Wound, which on the ] 6th had increased, at- tended by some hardness and a little inflamma- tion ai'ound it. A poidtice and some opening medicine were directed. On the 18th the in- flammation had spread, and the arm began to be swollen, the vein above the orifice having a corded teei; the same plan of treatment was pursued. April 20, evening.—There is now considera- able constitutional irritation. His face is flushed. The pulse is 120, sharp and jerking. Tongue j furred. Bowels but moderately moved. He | complains only of the local uneasiness. ■ The arm is much swollen and inflamed from ■ the hand to the axilla, very painful on slight j pressure, or motion, especially in the axilla, and | the situation of the lymphatic glands of the arm, and a small quantity of purulent matter oozes | from the wound. Ordered: VS. ad^xvj.—Hydrargyrisubmur. | gr. V. statim—Sol. magnes. sulph. ter die sum. Fotus anthemidis. 21.—Spent a good night; is in every respect i better, and now asleep ; the pulse has lost its ! jerk, and is less frequent; the calomel has ope- arm, and the swelling and inflammation are re- duced ; the blood drawn last evening is bufiy, and moderately cupped. Ordered: Hirudines xxiv.—Rep. hyd. sub- mur. gr. V, 22.—The improvement is very marked ; the swelling and inflammation have greatly subsided; pressure and motion give but little pain; he /237 LIGATURES OF VEINS. rested well; has a clean moist tongue ; opf'Ti bowels, and makes no complaint. 24.—The improvement is in all respects firmed. There are few records of the disease which 11 follows venesection, in which the state of the vein is noted, or its disease is suspected, in the W’orks of the older surgeons. Hildanus reports ithe case of a woman whose arm was affected arm from with gangrene after the formation of an abscess vein after :at the wound made in venesection; it spread Trom the wound to the fingers, and the amputa- , ftion of the arm which became necessary, was .performed with success. He refers the injury ito the wound of the biceps tendon, and consh ders that the vitiated humours of the body were i carried to the. wound of the vein, which they !gradually corroded and inflamed. The basilic wein was examined both in the stump and the ipart amputated ; a fetid pus was copiously dis- charged from its extremities, so that to the for- mer it was thought necessary, in order to cor- rect the putrefaction, to apply the cautery*. I remember about the year 1801, when the cases .• n • 1 1 • • ofinfiamed operation ot tying the saphena major vein was saphena I frequently, practised for varicose ulcers of the ilegs, an elderly woman being the subject of fllithis operation, which w'as performed in Guy’s In'Hospital, a little above, and on the inner side of tthe knee. Inflammation of the vein followed, tliand several abscesses formed in the direction i| of the vessel, below the ligature, on the inner side of the calf of the leg. It was accompanied * Fab, Hildani Cent. IV. Obs. 70.ON WOUNDS AND From divi- sion. Remark- able symp- toms of constitu- tional irri- tation ex- cited by the ligature. with great constitutional disorder; some of the abscesses ulcerated, others advanced with great difficulty to the surface, and the patient died, worn out by excessive irritation. In a second case, that of a man who had drunk hard, two ligatures were made upon the vein, and the vessel was divided between them. In three days the man complained of pain in the course of the vein from the place of its division to the groin; an inflammatory blush appeared upon the leg, extending from the knee to the ancle, and on the succeeding day considerable swel- ling. The pain above the ligature extended to the bottom of the belly, and the thigh became swollen and tender upon pressure; the consti- tution sympathized with the local disease, and without the formation of abscessesj as in the former case, this man died, as it appeared, from extended inflammation of the vein. Mr. Hodgson mentions two cases in which the division of the varicose vein terminated fa- tally*, the first on the morning of the fourth day, the second on the seventh or eighth. The same author relates a case from the practice of Mr. Freer, of Birmingham, in which the ligature of a varicose vein was followed by pain in the chest, hurried and laborious breathing, and a vo- miting of blood four hours after the operation, which symptoms were immediately relieved by the removal of the ligature. The operation was followed by fever and vomiting, and re- tention of urine, when performed on another varicose vein of the same patient six weeks afterwards, although the ligature was removed * Diseases of Arteries and Veins, pp. 555, 558.2S9 LIGATURES OF VEINS. immediately after its application.; and again by similar symptoms of constitutional dis- order, when repeated upon two other veins, after an interval of nine weeks, the ligatures being cut away immediately after their applica- tion. The fever went further on the latter oc- 1 casion ; the patient was attacked with delirium and severe vomiting on the second day : the ; symptoms continued on the third and fourth iday; on the sixth she was slightly delirious, and Iher respiration much oppressed ; she was re- {peatedly blooded. “ In this case,*’ says Mr. H. the obliteration of the vein was the conse- :quence of the application of a ligature which \was immediately removed.” In the 5th volume of the Edinburgh Me- dical and Surgical Journal, Mr. Oldknow, sur- ’^eon of Nottingham, communicates the follow- ing important narrative. CASE. A young man about 23 years of age, of Fatal case dethoric habit, had been troubled for the last phena. wo or three years with painful ulcers about the inner ancle of the right leg, which repeatedly Healed, and broke out again, so as to prevent, n a great measure, his attendance to business ; lie therefore became desirous, on my represen- tation, of having the saphena vein tied, it be- ng varicose to within a hand’s-breadth of the - inee. The operation was performed in the fbl- )wing manner. An incision three quarters of rn inch long, and about one inch and a half Ibove the distension, was made through the skin mediately over the vein, and in the directionON WOUNDS AND 240 of its course. The cellular substance was then carefully divided, the vein lying deeper than usual, until its upper surface was completely exposed. A probe armed with a double liga- ture was passed under the vein, taking care to include nothing with it, it being cleanly dis- sected from the surrounding cellular membrane upwards and downwards as far as the extent to the first incision, and then tied. The portion of the vein between the two ligatures being af- terwards cut out, the lips of the wound were brought together by a suture and adhesive plas- ter, with a view of healing it by the first inten- tion. The patient was then put to bed, and directed to use a cold embrocation. On the second day he took some opening mixture. Third day, the wound was dressed, and appear- ed wholly united, except where the ligatures came out. The suture was cut out, and a fresh adhesive plaster applied. On this day he com- plained of pain in the lower part of the limb, that is, from the lowermost ligature, along the vein down the foot; to use his own expression, as if the blood in the vein were endeavouring to overcome the obstruction caused by the liga- ture. This sensation was however entirely re- moved by applying a bandage moderately tiglit from the toes upwards. Fifth day, there appear- ed a little erythematous blush about the wound. He had a trifling epistaxis, and I thought pro- per to take from him sixteen ounces of blood, which was not inflamed j the purging mixture was repeated. Sixth day, complained of a little pain on the inner side of the knee in the course of the vein j but there was no external inflam-LIGATURES QF VEINS. 241 imation at that part. The lips of the wound began to separate. In the evening he was sud- denly seized with a violent rigor, succeeded by a hot tit and symptoms of great vascular ac- tion, and some tendency to delirium. Pulse 130, hard and full, therefore sixteen ounces of I i blood were taken from the arm; it gave in- stantaneous relief, and was followed by the sweating stage, which continued several hours, ^Liand was succeeded by a state of quietude, soon ijlhpwever interrupted by a recurrence of the l^ssame train of violent symptoms, at first about ioonce in twenty-four hours, but gradually in- creasing in frequency, and diminishing in r|>3trength, till nature became exhausted ; death [celosing the scene twenty-two days from the operation. For the first four or five days after the rigor, he wound discharged pretty freely, and by naking strong pressure about the knee, a little natter was forced from it. The inflammation ;rept gradually up the vein, which was evident com its peculiar cord-like feel, and from giving )ain on pressure, until it reached the groin, he inferior part getting well as the superior be- came bad, so that the wound was nearly healed efpre death, the ligatures having separated flibout the fourth day. There was no tumefac- tion of the cellular membrane, no enlargement if the glands in the groin, no superficial inflam- i nation on the thigh. There was, it is true, a t llight redness of the skin when the poultice was eemoved, (for the thigh along the course of the Itein was covered with cold poultice) which en- ilirely vanished on exposure to the air. The R t.r 1242 ON WOlPNDS AND A seconfl ease fatal. A third. medical treatment was strictly antiphlogistic; the patient was repeatedly bled, and with apparent relief every time, the blood being extremely sizy ever after the first rigor. Two days, how- ever, previous .to his death, the vital principle was so exhausted as to need the use of cordials. This is the result of an operation which 1 be- lieve is generally considered as a very trifling one, and not endangering the life of the patient; judge then my mortification at this unexpected termination. On inquiry, however, I find an- other fatal case has occurred in this neighbour- hood, differing in its symptoms from the one I have related. Large collections of matter form- ed in the cellular membrane, along the course of the vein as far as.the groin, and the patient died two months after the operation, the fever assuming the form of an intermittent.” ' My friend Dr. Stenson of Bourton, Glouces- tershire, obliged me with the following letter in reply to an inquiry which I addressed to him respecting a case of varix, for which he per- formed the operation of tying the saphena vein. ‘‘ Most happy should I be to communicate any information you might wish relative to the fatal termination of the varix alluded to, but it is now more than twelve years since the opera- tion was done, and at the time I made no notes and was not permitted to examine the pai’ts after death, consequently can say little satisfactory upon the subject. It was then strongly recom- mended by a surgeon of the first eminence. All I can now recollect is this, that a woman of about .55, whahad an obstinate ulcer of the leg, ap-24S LIGATURES OF VEINS. parently kept up by a diseased saphena major veioj had it taken up just as it passes on the in- ner side of the knee. In eight or nine days, violent inflammation took place in the course of the vein, accompanied by symptoms of great irritation throughout the system, so that you would have said, had you seen the disease, “ this woman is dying of typhus.” ‘ I beg the reader’s attention to the twofollow- iing cases, which occurred lately under my own (Observation. CASE. John White, aged 28 years, was admitted into (Guy’s Hospital, Nov. 22, 1816, for an aneu- rrisma^^ ^raor in his left ham. During the ope- nation 6f tying the femoral artery in the thigh, vwith two ligatures, on Friday, Nov. 29th, 1816, ai haemorrhage took place from a small wound of (the femoral vein. The bleeding was at first (troublesome, but was presently commanded by 31 ligature which was applied around the open- i’ng, by nipping up its coats. Dec. 6.—The patient has been doing well 5}ince the operation. 9. —Still doing well. In dressing, a small Uhread came away, supposed from the vein. ^ 10. —There has been a slight haemorrhage ’rom the wound. He complains of tenderness ))n pressure between the crural arch and the wound in the direction of the femoral artery. 13.—Lower ligature came away (fifteenth . Hay) the wound looking well, a considerable but wealthy discharge. Swelling in the ham, and in- [iier part of the thigh, less and softer. R 2 Fatal case of ligature on a wound of the fe- moral vein.ON WOUNDS AND 244 14.—Complains of head-ache j pulse quick and full; bowels open, has not much thirst. 16.—Upper ligature came away yesterday ; (seventeenth day) discharge from the wound is less ; makes no complaint. 21.—The wound looks well, discharge much increased ; had last night a very severe rigor, followed by heat and profuse sweating. A slight rigor this morning; bowels open; appetite good; has no pain. 24. —Patient is up for the first time ; feels himself very weak ; the wound discharges copi- ously; granulations have arisen from the bot- tom of the wound ; the swelling in the ham and lower part of the thigh very much diminished; complains of stiffness only in the part; appetite good ; no return of rigor. 25. —Patient sat up two or three hours this morning, and felt himself better, but had a rigor at 8 A. M.—Evening. Upon removing a poul- tice which was laid over the slips of plaster, he discovered that the wound had been bleeding. It was supposed he lost about twelve ounces of blood, but the character of the blood could not be ascertained, it being then coagulated. The wound was not disturbed, but an evaporating lotion was applied to the limb. 26. —A return of hasmorrhage ; had a severe rigor about eight o’clock this' morning.—Even- ing. Has had a slight bleeding. 27. —Had a rigor this morning about the same time as yesterday, followed by heat and profuse perspiration; is very thirsty ; bowels open ; skin hot and dry ; pulse very quick. 28. —Has had a very bad night; frequent andLIGATURES OF VEINS. 245 severe rigors followed by slight heat, but con- siderable sweating. Had no return of bleed- ing, and the parts are kept cool by the wash, i Bowels open ; he is very thirsty ; no appetite ; ; his pulse is remarkably quick. He has frequent rigors this morning, and can with difficulty . 1 keep himself warm. 29.—He is very weak ; pulse feeble ; had a slight bleeding ; no shivering, SO.—The shivering returned again last night; i the coldness has continued unremittingly, so j that he cannot get warm. His pulse is quick , and rapid; there is a very material change in t his countenance j he has had no more bleed- ; ing, and the wash is continued ; he does not t complain of the limb. The tumor in the lower I ipart of the thigh and in the ham is much di- minished, but the leg is oedematous and pits on : ; pressure. 31.—The shivering continued during the {greater part of the night; his strength gra- »dually failed, and he died at six o’clock, a. m. ; IHe complained yesterday of some difficulty in : Ibreathing, but not of any pain in the abdomen j lupon pressure with the hand. Examination. i The limb, and especially the leg and foot, were I icedematous *, the surface of the wound was in a ■ fsloughing state, but it was filled at the bottom ( Iby granulations ; the extremity of the divided 'laartery presented a healthy appearance ; the fe- ll moral and profunda veins were filled by adhe- I. siVfe matter. When a blow pipe was introduced 1 6II 246 ON WOUNDS AND into the upper extremity of the femoral vein, the air passed by it through the wound exter- nally. The same was attempted to be done with the femoral artery, but it did' not appear to have any communication with the external W'ound. The vein was next laid open; its inter- nal tunic was covered with adhesive matter, and the sides at the lower part were adhering. It contained nothing like recent blood. All the coats were much thickened, and its capacity was gradually diminished downwards to the wound, • where it was completely closed. There was an opening in the coats of the vein about three quar- ters of an inch above the obliterated part, and this | opening communicated with the external wound. Below the obliteration, the wound was in a healthy state, the coats of the vessel were na- ^ tural, and it contained a clot of blood. The adhesive inflammation had extended from the I internal surface of the femoral vein to the iliac, as high as the bifurcation of the cava. The cava was also inflamed, but here the inflammation ' had not produced lymph or pus. The internal | surface of the iliac vein presented the same , appearance as the femoral; the corresponding i i iliac on the opposite side was not affected. The artery was next examined ; its internal sur- face was healthy, the lymph plug extended to some considerable distance above the situation of the ligature, and its extremity was contracted and closed. There was considerable serous eflfli- sion in tlie chest, one of the lobes of tlie left lung was covered with a recent deposit of lymph, and the parenchymatous substance of the lungs247 LIGATURES OF VEINS. appeared to have been inflamed. There was also a slight inflammatory blush on the surface of the intestines ; the other viscera of the ab- domen appeared in a healthy state. CASE. Jolm Crute, aged 30, suffered amputation of his right leg, above the knee, for a scrophulous disease of that joint of long continuance. His I health was in no considerable degree affected. During the first two days succeeding the opera- I tion he appeared unusu^ly low, often sighed deeply, and spoke but little. On the evening : of the third day it became evident that he la- boured under more constitutional irritation than I is common after amputation, and he was at- : tacked at night with severe bilious vomiting, his j bowels being'freely open. Early on the following morning, (fourth day) the dresser was called to him, and finding that he had passed a very rest- I less night, and had a hard quick pulse, he drew j 20 oz. of blood from his arm, and administered some aperient medicine. His pulse lowered and became softer, and he expressed himself relieved by the bleeding, but the vomiting con- tinued at intervals. At noon the stump was opened ; the lips of the wound, which were ge- nerally adhering, were separated, and a copious discharge of grumous blood, accompanied with purulent sanies, followed. A fomentation and poultice were applied to the stump: in the evening an exacerbation of the symptoms took I place ; slight rigors were followed by fever and I delirium. On the morning of the fifth day his Fatal case of inflamed femoral vein fiom ligature in amputa- tion.t See Plate JO, fig. J, 3 and 4. II 248 ON WOUNDS AND pulse was thready and very rapid, his counte- nance sunken, and he had incessant low mut- tering ; he continued sinking until 3 p. m. on the following day, when he died*. ^Examination, The femoral artery in a healthy state ; a firm plug of lymph obstructing the canal, which was contracted, as is usual where a ligature has been applied. On the mouth of the femoral vein was a ligature, which the dresser, in the absence of the surgeon, had ^^pplied, for the purpose of restraining an haemorrhage after the ligature of the artery, apparently proceeding from the vein ; he had done this without hesitation, hav- ing frequently seen it done with safety, by the surgeon under whom he formerly studied. From the site of the ligature, along the femoral ex- ternal iliac and cava to the point at which the emulgents enter the latter vessel, the interior tu- nic was literally coated by large flakes of coa- gulable lymph t. There were marks of dif- fused inflammation extending to the right au- ricle of the heart, but the signs of adhesive inflammation terminated as described. The vein in the right arm, from which Cmte had been blooded by a free opening, was examined. The integuments had closed over the wound, and the vessel was uninflamed. Between the * As it was not my object in detailing these cases to refer to the ti'eatment, I have purposely avoided mentioning it^ that I might not uselessly divert the reader’s attention from what conveys more information, the disease.249 LIGATURES OF VElNSu mouths of the femoral vein and artery tvas dis- covered a small branch, arising immediately above the ligature of the artery; and this vessel was doubtless that from which the bleed- ing had proceeded. CASE. A middle-aged man of a bad habit of body, Fatal case induced by intemperance, was admitted into an vein imm Hospital for a very extensive sloughing ulcer of the leg. Amputation, as a last resource, was performed above the knee, and to the vein as well as the artery, a ligature was applied. On the fifth day from the operation he had a con- siderable degree of fever, which increased on the two following days. On the seventh he became delirious, and in a fit of delirium rose from his bed and stood by its side on the re- maining leg. A state of low muttering suc- ceeded, and on the ninth day he died *. Exaynination. The tied extremities of the artery and vein, with the surrounding parts of' the stump, were found in a gangrenous condition, and for a space of some inches above the ligature the Vein contained adhesive matter in a broken state, with which purulent matter was inter- mingled. \ Mr. Hunter says, “ I have found in all Mr. Hiin- vident inflammations of the cellular membrane, * I am indebted for these brief particulars of the case to a gentleman who witnessed it, and preserves the preparation.ON WOUNDS AND 250 whether spontaneous or in consequence of ac- cident, as in compound fracture, or of surgical operation, as in the removal of an extremity, the coats of the larger veins passing through the inflamed part, become also considerably injiamed, and that their inner surfaces take on the adhe- sive, suppurative, and ulcerative inflammations; for in such inflammations I have found in many places of the veins, adhesion, in others matter, and in others ulceration/*—I have found them,** (these appearances) “ in the bodies of those who have died from amputations, com- pound fractures, and mortifications*.** The origin of this inflammation after bleed- ing, Mr. H. attributes to the wound not heal- ing by the first intention, and the imperfection of union being continued on to the cavity of the vein ; for abscess between the skin and the vein is productive of no mischief, if the vein and parts below have united. The exposure of the cavities of the larger veins in accidents and operations, is often, he thinks, the cause of the very extensive inflammations which some- times attend these cases. He states, that the abscess or the confinement of the matter in the wounded part of the vein, is occasioned by ad- hesions in the vein, a little above and below the orifice ; and in the part where such adhesions do not take place, an abscess is formed, occupying a considerable length of the vein both ways; and often more than one, even a series of abscesses, generally in the direction of the vein between the orifice and the heart, but sometimes between the wound and the extreme parts. * Medical and Cbinirg. Transactions, Vol. !■ p. 18 and 19.LIGATURES OP VEINS. 251 He observed in some parts of veins thus affected, suppuration which had not yet arrived at ulceration, and in several other places ulce- ration had taken place so as to have destroyed the surface next the skin. He always found in cases where larger abscesses had come on than tliose formed simply from ulceration of the wound made by the lancet, that the vein was afterwards obliterated; a proof, he observes,, that the sides of the vein can unite by the ad- I hesive inflammation. Mr. Hunter instances this disease in the horse after bleeding as frequently fatal, and seems to attribute it to the method of closing the external wound, when not executed with 1 sufficient attention. He conjectures the fatal issue of the disease to be owing either to the extension of inflammation to the heart, or the \ passage of a considerable quantity of the matter ! secreted by the inflamed surface into the circu- I lation. I entertain no doubt of the facts stated on sympathe- I the writer’s observation in this very valuable 1 nation of paper ; but when Mr. Hunter says it is so com- mon a case, that he has hardly ever seen an in- stance of suppuration in any part furnished with large veins, where these appearances are not evident after death, we are forced to con- clude that he means to describe a sympathetic inflammation, i. e. one which does not arise out of violence done to the vein, but consentaneous with disease of the surrounding parts; and I if so, there is surely too much latitude in the I statement. The femoral vein in a psoas abscess, I in abscess of the hip, and the subclavian and252 ON WOUNDS AND Morbid se- cretions of veins by contiguous 65’mpathy. Inflaimna- tioii by ex- tension or continuitj'. • I axillary in an abscess of the shoulder-joint, both of which had destroyed the bones, ligaments, and much of the surrounding muscular parts, shewed no signs of disease. The femoral vein of a man who died of a gangrene on the tenth || day after amputation above the knee for an I extensive fracture and laceration of the leg ; t of another who died of a mortified bubo, in \ whom the femoral vessels had been denuded for ' weeks preceding his death, presented no trace , of inflammation. It is very probable, however, 1 that the fact should escape observation, which was not particularly directed to it, as Mr. Hun- ter’s was when this paper was written. A new and very interesting fact which gives i much countenance to the opinion, that the ca- vities of veins are subject to inflame by sympathy i with contiguous parts, is demonstrated by pre- parations in the collection of Mr. Langstaff, of Basinghall Street, a gentleman, who to the ac- tive duties of his profession unites an uncommon degree of zeal and industry in the pursuit of morbid anatomy. It appears that the veins in the vicinity of parts destroyed by the phagedena of the malignant fungus, and diseases of this class, are filled by a soft pulpy matter, resem- bling in texture the destructive growth*. That inflammation may extend to these vessels from other inflamed parts, is shewn by a commu- nication to the work above cited by Mr. Wilson, of Windmill Street, who describes a very inte- * I lately foniid the internal jugular vein thus diseased^ in examining, with my friend Mr. G. Young, the body of a man whose stomach and liver were alfected with the medullary tu- mor. The lymphatic glandular system was diseased throughout.I LIGATURES OF VEINS. resting case of inflammation, apparently origina- ting in the uterine veins after recent delivery^. The inflammation extended to the iliac veins s and their communications, and throughout the vena cava inferior, as far as to the entrance of the venae cavae hepaticae. The coats of these veins were much thickened, and their canals, plugged by coagula. From the emulgent veins downward, the cava was filled by lymph adhe- ring to its sides. An abscess containing four ounces of well formed pus was discovered be- tween the emulgent and hepatic veins. Imme- diately below the entrance of the latter, the tube of the cava was obliterated, partly by a pucker- ing or contraction, and in part by a deposition of lymph. Mr. Wilson observed similar appear- ances of inflammation commencing in the veins of the uterus, and extending to the cava, in the bodies of two other women who died, a few days after parturition ; and Dr. Clarke men- tions that he has found pus in the uterine veins in cases of puerperal inflammation t. In the horse the disease, though common, Jnflnm?(i is very rarely fatal. This point I ascertained veins of by inquiry of persons who have very extensive opportunities of treating the diseases of these animals. And the insusceptibility of adhesive inflammation which belongs to the integument of the horse, is thought satisfactorily to explain its origin. My esteemed friend. Professor Cole- man, of the Veterinary College, favoured me * Med. and Chir. Trans. Vol, III. p. 65, t Practical Essays on the Management of Pregnancy, pages 63, 72.254 MV. Cole< Ilian’s ob- servations. V Mr.S'eweil’s oWrva- tions. ON WOUNDS AND with the following’ note, in answer to my inquiry as to the correctness of Mr. Hunter’s statement. Inflammation of the vein after bleeding is much more frequent in horses than in the human subject; but Mr. Hunter was not cor- rect in stating that an abscess is always formed at the wound. The most curious circumstance respecting this disease in horses Mr. Hunter has overlooked. In the human subject I be- lieve the inflammation very generally, if not always, extends along the vein, following the course of the circulation. In horses I have never seen a case where the inflammation ex- tended to the chest, or many, even one inch below the orifice; neither do I recollect any fatal case from this disease. The inflammation extends contrary to the course of circulation towards the head. The cavity of the vein is often filled with lymph ; and when this takes place an abscess forms, and the vein above is lost. I have no doubt that inflammation of the wound sometimes takes place in consequence of the mode used to stop the bleeding ; but I should observe that the most simple wound through the common integuments of horses is scarcely ever healed by the first intention ; and it is this disposition to suppurate and to resist adhesive union, that is probably the most frequent cause of the external wound after bleeding not uniting by the first intention in horses, the same as in the human subject. In a conversation with Mr. Sewell, Assistant Professor of the Veterinary College, he stated to me his opinion that the abscesses described by Hunter must be farcy abscesses, a diseaseLIGATURES OF VEINS. 255 ! I \ t t t ! peculiar to the lymphatic system of the horse species, for the inflamed jugular vein seldom forms abscess, much less a string of abscesses. He has occasionally seen abscess form at the pa- rotid gland after inflammation of the vein, and this event is considered critical of the inflam- mation, and therefore favourable. Sometimes a horse,by rubbing his neck after bleeding, or being soon after put to work with too small a collar, or from sudden exertion, as in coughing, opens the vein afresh, and brings on a dangerous bleeding, so that he requires to be watched night and day. In order to bleed a second time on the same day, some practitioners inconsiderately give the vein a blow above the wound to rupture the adhesion ; and the vein thus burst open is apt to suppurate. I was shewn at the Veterinary College the vein of a horse, which had been sent in for cure, the vessel having inflamed and ulcerated after bleed ing at the place of the wound. The continuity of the vessel was destroyed by ulceration to the extent of an inch or more; its sides below the breach enormously thickened, and its cavity filled by masses of‘ coagulable lymph above, so as to have lost all appearance of a tube. It was filled with a compact and extended clot of blood towards the heart. Upon dissection,'both lymph and pus were traced in the course of the vein into the sinuses of the brain, and the mem- branes of the brain were much inflamed. Where a vein is disposed to bleed afresh, owing , to an ulceration of its coats, the most approved prac- tice is to introduce the actual cautery superfi- cially within its cavity, to produce eschar and the process of granulation. Ulceration of a vein after bleed- ins, and its^ conse- quences.256 ON WOUNDS AND Slough. Ulceration of the wound. History of a fatal case. Hon^S^' While prosecuting this inquiry, I met with hoises’veins cascs in wliicli tlic jugulai* vein had been ob- literated by inflammation after bleeding, a case with which farriers are familiar ; I was told of one in which a considerable portion of the vein had sloughed, the inflammation and abscess ha-^ ving extended in that case some way downward, toward the heart. I saw a third, in which the actual cautery was introduced near an inch with- in the vein, in consequence of repeated alarming bleedings from ulceration of the. orifice; and at a slaughter-house I examined the vein of a horse which had died from ha^motli^^^lge,. in conse- quence of ulceration of the vein at the orifice. I obtained the following short history of this case. The farrier, dissatisfied with the bleed- ing from the first wound, again struck the vein with the phlegm, and made so large a wound that an hsemorrhage followed, which was wdth great difficulty suppressed. On the third day the animal was put to work, when the vein bled afresh to a very considerable amount. The cautery was then had recourse to, but the animal continued to bleed at in- tervals, and was soon exhausted. I have re- presented the ulcerated orifice of the vein in Jig. 2. 'plate 10. Masses of coagulated blood were found in the vein above the wound, which was so extensive as nearly to dissever the vessel, but no appearance of an adhesive process pre- sented itself in the upper portion of the vein. Next the heart the vein was lined by a rough coat of lymph, and at two inches distance from the orifice was obliterated by a contraction and interstitial thickening of its coats, so that itLIGATURE! OF VEINS. 257 presented a round solid cord of little more than the size of the artery, and of a cartila- ginous hardness. The pericardium and pleura of this animal were inflamed, although the vein .was sound between the point of obliteration and the chest. - . Veins have been found obliterated and con- oblitera- tion of verted into ligament-like cords, in dissections of veins, dead bodies, when no sign of a contiguous mor- bid action presented itself* j and not unfre- quently their canals have been interrupted and their coats removed by the pressure of adjacent tumors obstructing the circulation t. It is of course impossible to ascertain whether inflam- mation had taken place upon the interior of the vein in these cases. I have lately seen an instance of obliterated '> ^ tion and internal jugular vein, by the pressure of a tumor ulceration situated deeply on the right side of the trachea communi- and covering the great vessels. The patient afaifscisa!' who was attended and examined after death by Mr. Kingdon, Surgeon, of Finsbury Place, had of late discharged pus and blood, both by the mouth and by the rectum. The tumor was found upon dissection to con- tain dead cellular substance, and a quantity of blood in a state of putrefaction. The internal Ljugular vein was filled for some space by a coa- ; gulum of blood, but an ulcerated orifice of com- * Haller, Opusc. Pathol. Obs. xx. Morgagni, Lett. 56. •Art. 10; Bartolin. Obs.Anat.Cent.il. Hisli 35 ; Baillie, IMed. and Chir. Trans. Vol. I. p. 127. f Scarpa on Aneurism, by Wishart, p. 20. note; Lardner, lEdin. M^. and Surg. Journ. Vol. VII. p. 407; Young in Hodgson, p. 533. SON V/OUNDS AND ^38 Artificial pressure. muiiication with the cyst of the tumor appeared above the coagulum, so that the blood return- ing from the head passed in part into the cyst; there was also an ulcerated aperture of commu- nication between the cyst and the oesophagus, and thus the contents of the tumor were from time to time passing into the alimentary canal. The artery and par vagum were sound, but the former was curiously defended by a covering of lymph. From this, case it would appear that an artery not only remains pervious'under a degree of compression which causes the obliteration of a vein, but that the coats of the latter are de- stroyed by an irritation, which has only the ef- fect of additionally supporting and strengthen- ing those of an artery. Veins in a state of varicose enlargement, have sometimes been obliterated by inflamma- tion, the result of pressure artificially applied. I some years ago succeeded in obliterating a varicose cyst of the saphena, behind the inner condyle of the knee, in a labourer in the India Company’s service, by means of adhesive plaster, applied in strips around the limlJ, with as much strictness as could be borne. The vein took on inflammation, and the cyst became a per- fectly solid tumor, which afterwards shrunk, and was permanently obliterated. The inflam- mation was severely painful, accompanied by extreme tension of the part, and with con- siderable fever. By continued rest in the semi-flexed position of the limb, leeches and fomentations frequently applied, and an active 8LIGATURES OF VEINS. 259 aritiphlogi'tic treatment, tlie man was in a few weeks enabled, with the support of a roller, to resume his employment. I have seen a case in which this change took i place spontaneously, and was accompanied by like symptoms and consequences. The saphena, ! spermatic, and epigastric veins were affected, greatly distended and tortuous. Some years after the cure of the disease in the thigh, the I spermatic vein underwent a spontaneous con- I solidation. It acquired excessive bulk, weight, I and firmness, still retaining its natural tortuo- i sity, so that it presented a very unique descrip- ! tion of tumor. The epigastric varix remains. This is an inflammation induced by distension i 'of the vessel I conceive, from'arrest of the cir- I iculation. Mr. Hodgson is, I believe, the first i who has publicly noticed this interesting fact. 'The reader will find two well marked cases of ^spontaneous obliteration by the extent of the i (coagulum, accompanied by symptoms of inflam- : imation, in his valuable treatise. “ Sometimes,” he observes, “ the coagulum ' ^accumulates to.such an extent as completely to ; (obliterate the canal of the dilated vessel. I t lhave seen four cases in which this event termi- i mated in the spontaneous cure of varices. In ) iLhese instances it is probable that the coagulum aacciimulated till it completely filled tlie varix, * Kor the upper portion of the vein communicating I ^with it; the blood being unable to pass for- I vwards, coagulated in the vessel to a consider- aable extent; this coagulum was gradnally ab- siorbed j as its absorption advanced, the coats of s 2 Sponta- neous obI‘- te ration. Mr. Hodg- son’s obser-; vation.260 ON WOUNDS AND Cause? of inflaaima- tion. Causes of oblitera- tion. Differences in texture and proper- ties of arteries and veins. the veins contracted ; the vessel was ultimately obliterated, and the blood was conveyed through collateral channels*.** It has been shewn— That the inflammation of the interior tunic of a vein sometimes follows a puncture^ some- times a division, a ligature encircling the tube, or including only a part of it; or arises spon- taneously from an inflamed surface, of which the vein forms a part. That the obliteration of the canal is some- times produced by the pressure of tumors, or by pressure artificially applied, or by disten- sion from the extent of a coagulum of blood; and that the obliteration is occasionally met with in' the dead subject, where the collateral circulation appears to have been long established, unaccompanied by any circumstances which explain the cause. I shall next inquire the es- sential points of distinction between this and the other order of blood-vessels, so far as re- gards their texture and properties. 1. The external fibrous coat of veins is thin- ner and looser in texture than that of arteries; it is abundantly supplied with blood-vessels, and is so closely interwoven and condensed with the inner coat as to make them in a degree inseparable. Bichat, who particularly notices this fact, remarks, that it is a character distin- guishing the venous from the arterial texture!. The middle and internal coats of arteries on * On Diseases of Arteries and Veins, pp. 542. 544. •}• Anatomie Generale par Xavier Bichat, lom. II. p. 411. 7261' LIGATURES OF VEINS. the contrary preserve a distinct character, and though closely adhering, do not appear in any degree to intermix. 2. Veins have a slight appearance of fibres passing in the direction of their axes upon the larger trunks. Arteries have a denser and more distinct layer of fibres, passing in the contrary direction. Until of late these fibres have been regarded as muscular ; but recent observations render the accuracy of this opinion doubtful. 3. The inner coat of veins which lines the auricles of the heart, and according to Bichat, the sinuses of the dura mater, although denser than that of arteries, is more flexile. It exhibits the terminations of the vasa vasorum more abundantly after fine injections than the inner membrane of arteries. It does not, however, in the natural state exhibit any appearance of blood-vessels, nor have absorbents or nerves been seen upon its surface. 4. The coats of veins, taken collectively, are remarkable for their tenuity, compared with those of arteries; hence their collapse when empty, which is improperly referred to inelas- ticity. They are also weaker*, but greatly more extensile, especially in the transverse direction ; for they will bear a dilatation many times exceeding that of arteries, although they more frequently rupturet. * This is now the generally received opinion in opposition to the inferences of Wintringham. f Haller, Elcm. Physiol. Lib. II. p. 128, 9. Lib. VI. p. 351. Soemmering de ?orp. hum, fab. Tom. V. p. 327.262 ON WOUNDS AND 5. They are less elastic than arteries ; but the. stagnation of the blood in varix, a disease originally depending upon a loss of this pro- perty ; their contraction upon a small quantity of blood, so as to empty themselves by a wound where the circulation is obstructed ; the oppo- site states of their canals under opposite ex- tremes of temperature, and other ])henomena, prove that they possess elasticity in no incon- siderable degree. 6. The trunks of veins are excited to con- tract by the application of concentrated acids and other chemical stimuli. Their contraction, thus excited, is said by Soemmering to be stronger than that of arteries*. They are not excited by mechanical stimuli, and are consi- dered by Haller and others as devoid of the principle of irritability t. 7. Absorbents relatively to veins- are of greater strength ; they resemble the latter in possessing elasticity, and in being furnished with valves. I do not know that this comparative view, which might be much extended, especially if it were attempted to reconcile the discordant re- sults of anatomical research, throws much light upon the inquiry in hand ; but it is to my pur- pose, as it shews some prominent features of distinction in the organization and properties of the different systems. * Loco citato, p. 328. t Sec, Mem. sur les part, scnsibles et irritables, and Elem. Pbys, Lib. II. p. 126. and Lib. VI. p. 125.I I i j i ! I, 1, i i 2 t / t I jr, LIGATURES OF VEINS. A ilifFerence not less marked will appear upon considering the relative pathology of these ves- sels, as might indeed naturally be expected. 1. The coats of arteries are subject to ossific inflammation and deposition to an,unlimited ex- tent. Those of veins are very rarely the seat of this, and never, so far as I have observed, continuously, as we see in arteries. 2. In their disposition to inflame, as well as in other particulars, veins resemble absorbents ; but the cases of inflamed vein bear no com- parison in point of frequency to those of in- flamed absorbents. It has been observed, that a wound of the same extent, and inflicted with the same instrument as that made in blood-let- ting, does not cause the extensive inflammation which we occasionally see it produce in veins, in any other texture of the body. This, how- ever, if we consider the frequency of venesec- tion and the rarity of these cases, can scarcely be admitted. The cellular membrane, the fas- cia, and especially the absorbents, inflame at least as frequently as the veins, and not less extensively from slight injuries, for example, ifrom venesection, and from small wounds of the extremities. 3. The most material fact, however it may be • explained, is this : the inner or lining mem- brane of veins is subject to diffused or continu- <ous inflammation ; that of arteries very rarely, iif ever. I am aware that a preternatural red- mess of the interior surface is sometimes ob- 5served to run through the course of an artery.. 263 Differences in patho- logy.Off WOUNDS AND 264 4. The inner membranes of arteries and veins are susceptible of the adhesive inflammation* That of the former is defined, whether excited by pressure or by wound, or occurring sponta- neously. I never, saw the internal coat of an artery furred with lymph ; and even where lymph is deposited in quantity sufficient to ob-» struct the current of blood, the deposit occupies a narrowly defined space, and the inflammation, by whatever cause excited, or however acute, is similarly circumscribed. In veins, on the con- trary, the inflammation extends from the point of irritation towards the heart, or from branch to trunk. The lymph coats the vein like a fringe; and though the quantity effused is sometimes sufficient to obstruct the tube, the inflammation is often not bounded by the ob- struction. 5. The inner coat of veins is susceptible of the suppurative inflammation, and the inflam- mation IS often mixed, presenting both termi- nations alternately, viz, in lymph and pus. That of arteries is I believe incapable of suppu- ration, unless in a state of ulceration. ,6. Veins are more disposed to ulcerative iur flamraation than arteries. I know not whether the interior tunics of either are capable .of granulating, nor am I able to say whether there exists a difference in their power of resistance to gangrene. . , 7. The contrasted eharacter of the inflamma- tion of arteries and veins above-mentioned, ex- plains the active eonstitutjonal sympathy pecu-265 I } I I i: H I I i LIGATURES OF VEINS. liar to the latter. This corresponds with our observation of the difference in this respect presented by the bounded and the undefined inflammation of joints, the peritoneal or the pleural ca\dties, and the other shut sacs of the body. 8. The constitutional symptoms excited by inflamed veins resemble in type those of diffused inflammations in other organs. They are simi- lar to those of inflamed absorbents, which ves- sels also resemble the veins in their disposition to continuous inflammation. Bichat has a remarkable passage on the dis- position of the venous texture to inflammation, which I translate literally, as follows :—“ The tissue of these vessels frequently inflames. Bell relates examples of its following external injuries. The inflammation of haemorrhoids is a circum- stance commonly known. The cicatrization of w’ounds of veins after bleeding is a result of in- flammation. The process of cicatrization in veins is doubtless assisted by the absence of the impulse, to which the arteries are subjected; but certainly the latter, under'the same circum- stances, would not heal so quickly, if at all. When an artery is tied, its walls brought into contact, inflamed, and often torn by the ligature, must adhere before the cure can be completed, and the ligature come away without danger. Now nothing is slower and more difficult of oc- currence than their adhesion, on account of the indisposition of the arterial tissue to inflamma- tion. To this may be attributed the haemor- Bichat’s re- marks on the disposi- tion of veins to inflame.266 ON WO UN Da AND Mr. Hodg- son’s opi- nions. rhages which so frequently follow the operation for aneurism, and others ; the bleeding often re- curs, even after the expiration of twenty, thirty, or forty days. The surgeon ought to be very much on his guard after tying any of the larger trunks, on account of this great indisposition of the arterial tissue to hiflame. Even when the ar- tery is obliterated, it is frequently not by inflam- mation. Whilst the ligature arrests the blood, that portion of the artery that is comprehended between it and the collateral branches, clones gradually^ hy means of the contractility of its tissue, and forms a kind of ligament which ob- structs the blood, after the thread comes away. I am not sure that these cases are not more nu- merous than those of indammation. Now the veins always adhere very soon after being tied, and their wounds cicatrise immediately. It is al- most always useless to tie them in large wounds, in the first instance, on account of the valves; and afterwards, because the cut ends contract, quickly infiame, and adhere. A venous haemor- rhage takes place immediately, and not after so long an interval a« in arteries. All this then proves that the vital energy is much more marked in the venous than in the arterial system, as re- gards their tonic powers. The want of cellular tissue in the latter, and its presence in the for- mer, may have some influence upon this phe- nomenon*.” The most deservedly esteemed of modern • Anat. gener. tom. II. p. 423. & seq.267 LIGATURES OF VEINS. Writers on this subject says, “ Inflammation freqiieiiily produces,thickening of the coats of the veins, as well as adhesion of their sides and obliteration of their cavities and again, “ A frequent cause of the obliteration of the cavity of a vein is the adhesion of its sides, in con- sequence of inflammation of its lining mem- brane.”—“ By placing the opposite sides of the cavity in contact, by means of compresses iand bandages, the adhesion of the opposite sides of the dilated vessel is effected, and its cavity is consequently obliterated.”—When a vein is tied with a thin ligature, the internal surface of the vessel is lacerated, inflammation takes place, and, if the opposite sides of the tube be retained in contact by compression, their adhesion is speedily accomplished*'.” I have transcribed these opinions, considering them to be those received by the profession, and shall refer to them, after stating the results of my own inquiry. The heating of Wounds of Veins, When a vein is wounded longitudinally or obliquely, there is no separation of the edges of t-'e incision, so that only a little if any blood trickles from tlie aperture, unless pressure be made nearer to the heart, to obstruct the pas- sage of the blood in the vessel. If therefore’ * Kod^'on on Diseases of Arteries and Veins, pp. 519, 525, 547, and 555. Linear ci- catrix if no blood.g,s- capes.ON WOUNDS AND 268 Coagiiluin in wound after bleed- ing. Twenty- four hours. Three days. an animal be killed immediately after a wound of the vein, from which no blood has been drawn, the lips of the wound will be found in contact, and if permitted to live for a short time, the cicatrix will form a line. If a vein is opened by a transverse section, it bleeds without the addition of pressure; and if the vein is half divided, the haemorrhage is with much difficulty suppressed; the blood es- caping into the cellular sheath of the vein and of the contiguous muscles in the direction of the current, and forming a distinct coagulum between the orifice and the external wound. The longitudinal or oblique wound, by which | blood has issued in quantity, presents the same 1 appearances ; an oval naked coagulum forms the j plug of the orifice, and a flattened covered clot, which is an extravasation into the cellular sheath, extends to some distance around it. At the end of twenty-four hours the lips of the wound are found separated, forming an oval proportioned to the length of the incision, the edges everted and adhering to those of the clot; the eversion seeming to be the effect of disten- sion from the extravasation into the sheath : there is no blush upon the edges, nor any ap- pearance of organizable or secreted lymph in the vein or the wound. At three days the same appearances are observed, but the in- ternal margin of the wound is somewhat elevated and rounded, and a thin and narrow membranous expansion is perceived to be con- x tinuous with the everted edge of the internal ^269 LIGATURES OF TEINS. ; tunic. The clot itself is more compact j and , upon section presents concentric lamellae, the interior being of a lighter colour than the exterior layers. On the fifth day these appearances are more contirmed: the membranous appearance ex- i tends over the surface of the clot, if the wound i 1 is not exceeding a quarter of an inch in length ; • and in larger wounds the coagulum, which is t 1 reduced in size, has a membranous surface. I On the eighth day the new membrane is com- I iplete, the interior margin of the wound is I raised and tumid, and the coagulum of a com- I mon bleeding wound is nearly absorbed. From II the twelfth to the sixteenth day, numerous ^ vasa vasorum may be seen by the aid of a glass, i passing from the internal tunic over the new- d formed membrane and anastomosing upon it. ‘ At the latter period the edges are less raised, so c! as to be more upon a level with the new mem- ; brane, and have a slight red blush. The coagu- i 1 lurn is entirely absorbed. On the twentieth day it is only possible to dis- i; tinguish the recent from former wounds, by the K tenuity, smoothness, and transparency of the new i| membrane compared with the old, which is ll dense, tough, and wrinkled. *1 This description applies to wounds of the size usually made in bleeding; the process is of course longer in completion, though not other- -wise different in those which are more exten- sive. The coagulum, which forms the plug, is exactly proportioned to the size of the wound. The site and extent of the wound are ever after- Five day*. Eight day*. Sixteen days. IVenty days.270 ON WOUNDS AND New mem- brane forms a pouch. Is continu- ous with inner tunic. Process of healing in arteries. wards marked by the membrane which occupies it, which is thinner, more transparent, and more extensile than the proper paries of the vein. It forms, when the vein is filled, a pouch or bag ; and the jugular veins of horses present many of these contiguous to each other*.— Farriers avoid bleeding in these pouches, be- cause they find it difficult to staunch the blood. I at first supposed that this was a condensed cellular membrane, formed by the sheath of the vein; but I am satisfied that it is conti- nuous with the everted edges of the internal tunic, and organized by its vessels. If it were consistent with what we know of reproduction, I should be disposed to conclude that the new membrane was formed out of the coagulum of blood, although I found that the coagulum could with care be detached from the membrane, which was continuous with the everted edge of the interior tunic. The new membrane is how- ever evidently denser than the valves in struc- ture, which are said to be prolongations or even duplicatures of the proper tunic. Let us compare for a moment this account of the'process of healing in veins with that which prevails in arteries, as related by that accurate ob- server, Jones. An artery bleeds, it is well known, upon receiving a wound, in whatever direction, by the impulse of the heart’s action. From the difference of structure and circulation between the arteries and veins, a certain difference of course results as regards the approximation of • See Plate 11, fig. 6.LIGATURES OF VEINS. the edges and the relation of the wounds of the vessels and their cellular coverings. “ The lon- gitudinal produces the slightest possible separa- tion. The oblique occasions a separation pro- portioned to its extent: and the transverse, how- ever small, seems to produce a circular aper- ture in the parietes of the artery.^' By disten- sion of the sheath of an artery with the blood which escapes from it on receiving a wound, the relative position of the wounds in the sheath and the vessel is altered, so that “ a layer of blood is confined by the sheath over the wound in the artery, and by coagulating there, prevents’any further effusion of blood.” But “ its perma- nent suppression is effected by a process of repa- ration or of obliteration which takes place in the wounded artery.” An artery, “ if wounded only to a moderate extent, is capable of reunit- ing and of healing so completely, that after a certain time the cicatrization cannot be dis- covered either on its internal or external sur- face ; and even oblique and transverse wounds, when they do not open the artery to a greater extent than one fourth of its circum- ference, are also filled up and healed by an ef- fusion of coagulating lymph from their inflamed lips ,*[so as to occasion but little or no obstruc- tion to the canal of the artery.” “ When the wound is very large, such a quantity of coagu- lating lymph is poured out, that the canal of the vessel at the wounded part is more or lessjilled up hy iC* A marked difference then may be observed inON WOUNDS AND ♦ Jones on Hsemorrhage, chap. II. sec. 3. the direct an^ indirect consequences of wounds, inflicted upon these distinct orders of blood- vessels. The longitudinal wound of an artery, from which blood has just escaped in quantity, is found with “ its edges in perfect contact.” A crescentic wound is in twenty-four hours united by an intervening portion of lymph, which “ not only adheres to its edges, but seems to have been effused from them.” In forty hours a transverse wound of one third of the cylinder is “ distinctly seen plugged up with lymph, which adheres all round to its edges, and projects a little within the canal of the vessel.” In a more extensive transverse wound of the jugular vein, examined at seventy hours, I found no appearance whatever, but a plug of coagulated blood filling the wound, but not projecting within the canal of the vein. At five days—within the canal of the artery there was a very considerable and extensive effu- sion of lymph.” At eight days—“ on each side of the wounded part, and to some extent above and below, there was a very considerable effusion of lymph which adhered to its edges.” At nine days—“ the wound was seen to be completely cicatrized j” and the same abundant effusion of lymph was observed in the vicinity of arte- rial wounds, from which, oA^ing to their extent and direction,'the haemorrhage had within a few days proved fatalLIGATURES OP VEINS. 273 The wound of a vein from which blood is not Absence of permitted to escape heals by what is called the first InceTor*^ intention; the retarded healing and the formation of the membranous pouch are therefore inciden- tal consequences of the separation by the clot,and i by effusion into the sheath, of the edges of the wound. But neither mode of healing is at- tended by any such appearances as those de- scribed in wounds of arteries, nor indeed by any visible signs of inflammation, if we except the intumescence of the lips, within the vessel. I have never even observed a blush upon the edges of the wound until the membrane already formed was becoming vascular ; much less any effusion of lymph in its vicinity. The Effects of Ligatures upon Veins. A ligature does not divide the internal tunic Appear- f, .... • 1 j ancesofli- cor a vein either in man or animals. It draws gature at ^:his tunic into longitudinal folds, and leaves hoursfthrea u visible line of indentation which looks at clays. irst like discontinuity; but this impression ;s corrected by closer examination. It ap- »ears as if the outer or cellular coat only was divided. On examining the jugular vein i.ff a horse at twenty-four hours, three days, md five days, I could see no difference in the Appearances. The vein above and below is trhrown into longitudinal folds on either side of ji||he ligature. The portion next the heart is nerfectly empty and collapsed ; that next the /274 ON WOUNDS AND Tliree liga- tures. Division be- tween two. Sererx (lays. Niue days. Separation at twejity- jfive days. • extremity is filled to distension by a long and generally firm coagulum of blood, which is a mould of the vessel, and bears the impression of its semilunar valves*. The coagulum ex- tends for several inches; it is not always com- pact, and lamellated, and adhering to the in- terior tunic, being sometimes less consistent, and broken ; but it always fills the cylinder of the vein. There is no blush upon the inner tunic, much less any sign of adhesive in- fiammation, or thickening of the proper coats of the vein, or agglutination of the contiguous folds; these folds being efiaced on the removal of the ligature; but the cellular sheath of the vein is thickened by a deposit of lymph in the vicinity of the ligature. The application of three ligatures half an inch asunder presents no dif- ference*. The division of the vessel between two ligatures, allows of the retraction of the divided ends to the extent of an' incb,' but creates no diversity in the appearances described*. At seven days the effusion of lymph into the cel- lular sheatii around the lig.^ture i? increased so as to encompass it, forming a sort of canal for the ligature distinct from the wound j and at nine days the ulceration of the coats of the vein, has begun, which goes on progressively till its separation is. accomplished This occupies a period of from fifteen'to twenty five days.— In a young and healthy horse, the ligature was not liberated till the •twenty-fifth day. The ideerated.e.nds of the vein formed a cres- centic sweep, apd were separated' to the extent - * Ste Plate 13.LIGATURES OF VEINS. 27*^ of an incl), and fastened by adhesion to the cellu- lar siieath, which was much extended and thicks- ened by a subjacent deposition of lymphs so as to form a smooth solid bed between the divided ends of the vein. The internal membrane of the superior portion of the vein had a thin ragged edge where it had been severed by ulceration. The lower edge was smooth and blended in with the bed of the wound. The extremities had undergone no contraction but that produced by the adhesion of the severed extremity to the sheath. The portion of the vein next the heart was empty. The upper was tilled by a dark lamellated coagulum of blood, adhering very strictly to the internal tunic which was discoloured by it. On carefully separating the outer lamella which coated the interior of the vein, I could'not discover any thickening of the proper coats of the vein, nor any appearance of inflammatory action within its canal, nor was any such appearance indicated in the lower por- tion of the vein*. The effect of a ligature upon an artery is so 'well known, from the attention of late years di- ii^cted to the subject, that it cannot be necessary to dwell upon it for the purpose of shewing the contrast which it offers to the process just de- ^scribed. The internal tunic of an artery is divided by iSL round ligature, such as I employed, in these (experiments. The contraction of the tube at ilhe place of the ligature is rendered permanent Iby a deposition of lymph between its coats. * See Plate IS. T 2276 ON WOUNDS AND This inflammatory exudation in a few hours projects from within the fissure made by the ligature, and is increased until it forms a close bond of union between the opposed sides of the vesseL The ligature, which is liberated in ten, fifteen, or twenty days, leaves the contracted ends at a small distance apart, adhering to the sheath, and of a conical form ; the tube being at either end completely sealed up by a distinct coagulum of lymph tapering from the mouth ; and a coagulum of blood is usually present within the vessel. Only exter- nal change s similar. Unman bleeding veins. The thickening of the sheath by an external deposition, and the condensation of the severed extremities within the sheath of the vessels, is the only point of resemblance in the processes : and this may be regarded as the effect of the foreign body, and wholly independent of the changes which the vessels undergo. Compression, which is only a broader ligature, would, I have reason to believe, produce no variation of the appear- ances, if applied to a vein. Upon an artery it is well known it has the effect of a ligature, operating only with more slowness. These experiments, it is necessary to state, \vere made upon the jugular vein of the horse. The human bleeding veins are too small to exhi- bit so satisfactorily the process of healing. I have examined several after death, at early and remote periods, and find in those recently wounded a small coagulum in the wound, and more or less ecchymosis in the cellular substance op- posite the wound, which in the oase of throm- bus is a considerable extravasation. The woundLIGATURES OF VEINS. 277 has a distinctly oval figure, and while recent, the eversion of its edges is conspicuous ; the cicatrix retains this figure, though in a less degree ; it is more transparent than the rest of the cylinder, and may be detected, however < ancient, by holding the open vein to the light. I have never seen the membrane of the cicatrix assume that pouch-like appearance which has been described in the veins of the horse. There is no unusual adhesion of the cellular substance and the vein, and consequently no stricter con- nection exists between the cicatrices of the in- tegument and the vein than elsewhere. I have had no opportunity of examining the appear- ances produced upon a human vein, where it has been divided by the operation of the ligature. From these accounts it appears, that the in- inferences i r ^ opposed to ternal coat of a vein, instead ofbeine; so strong:- thoseof r . . ^ ^ Bichat. ly disposed to adhesive inflammation, as Bichat supposed, is, on the contrary, when compared with that of an artery, difficultly susceptible of such inflammation. Indeed, the processes of healing and of division by ulceration, seem to be conducted without any manifest sign of in- flammatory action on the interior tunic. I confess, that although these results were unlike those which I had anticipated, the pa- rallel which I have quoted from Bichat of the healing powers of arteries and veins, is so much at variance with our better information of the arterial pathology (thanks to our late industrious experimenter, Jones); and as regards the veins, is so palpably conjectural, that I did not feel much confidence in his exposition. The state-ON WOUNDS AND 27S Dient might be reversed with a nearer ap- proach to truth. Arteries are (juickly and strongly disposed to adhesion, and the hae- morrhages which follow the ligature, after a iapse of time, depend either upon a diseas- ed state of the artery which prevents its in- flammation and the secretion of lymph, or upon the destruction by ulceration or sloughing of an adhesion which had taken place. It is from the latter of these causes that the blood flows at the expiration of thirty or forty days ; for if there be no adhesion, it flows much ear- lier. The contractility of tissue would be a very frail security could it be exerted in the degree supposed; but to expect that this could occur during the residence of the ligature, and to an extent sufficient for security, while the vessel is occupied by a coagulum of blood, in- dicates a very deficient information of the after changes, as well as of the direct effect of the ligature upon the artery. The veins do not adhere after being tied j nor do their wounds under ordinary circumstances cicatrize immediately, nor do the cut ends con- tract and inflame. Further, venous hsemorrhages are peculiarly apt to recur, where the large ves- sels have been wounded ; and this at intervals of many days from the wound*. How the cellular membrane in the venous tissue favours the doc- trine which Bichat inculcates, he does not ex- plain ; but to me it appears that this fact, which he seems to have appreciated, has an obvious bearing upon the case when correctly stated. * White’s Case, p. 243.279 LIGATURES OF VEINS. . The indisposition of the venous membrane to 1 ndispo'^i- inflame is not, as appears to me, inconsistent compaui.ic with its obvious tendency under adequate ex- ‘ *' ^ / 61 ve action. citement to inordinate and excessive inflamma- tion. It is not unusual to find the morbid ac- tions of parts that are difficultly roused least controulable, when once set up. The mixed ter- ruinations of the inflammation of the venous membrane in the adhesive, suppurative and ul- cerative states, and its disposition to spread by continuity, are characteristic of inflammation in the cellular membrane, as seen in the erysi- j pelas and other affections, and are therefore pro- bably to be referred to the predominance of this texture in its composition. It appears difficult to account for the origin Origin, lo- of this inflammation ; if we refer it to the ope- sututionai? ration of any peculiar and purely local cause, how are we to reconcile the infrequency of its occurrence, after an operation so constantly and so carelessly practised as that of blood-letting? jj not to speak of other operations and accidents, 1 by which these parts are wounded, lacerated, i contused, compressed, ulcerated, &c. Besides, i we have seen that it occasionally follows va- j rious and dissimilar modes of local irritation. The apparent inadequacy of the local injury as a cause, the rapid and violent character of I the inflammation, and the high constitutional disorder which is manifested, would on the other hand rather induce us to ascribe it to a peculiar il state of the constitution* ; and that subsequent tl venesections, performed upon these patients, I have been unattended by similar local effects, can- I * See Casep, pages 234, 235.280 ON WOUNDS AND Exposure of c•avit}^ Non adhe- sion of inte- giimental wound. Deductions from the experi- ments, to explain in- flammation after v. s. not be admitted as an objection. Yet allowing the rarity of the case and the frequency of the operation, it will be found in nine instances out of ten to ensue upon a local injury^ how- ever simple. Exposure of the cavity of the vein is a circumstance often not accompanying the injuries by which the inflammation is in- duced, and continually occurring without any ill consequence. Non-adhesion and festering of the wound in the integument is an effect of suppuration beneath it, as frequently I should think as a cause. The subcutaneous abscess, as is observed by Mr. Hunter, is of no moment if the vein and parts below have united ; in the hu- man subject, abscess at the wound and diffused inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tex- ture, the lymphatics and their glands, and even the fascia, producing oedematous swelling and tension of the entire limb, are certainly more fre- quent than the inflammation of the vein as a consequence of venesection, where the wound has been improperly treated or neglected, and the patient suffered to use his arm without restric- tion. It appears from the experiments related that the wound of a vein after blood-letting does not take on direct adhesion, but that the last ef- fused blood forms a plug or stopper to the wound j that the agglutination is complete between the clot and the edges of the orifice whicli it occupies, and that the clot serves as a bed for the production of the new membrane. If from any cause suppuration occurs, the clot will be loosened and displaced, and the action which commonly ensues where the adhesive is defeated281 LIGATURES OF VEINS. or disturbed, viz, the ulcerative, will be set up on the margin of the ‘orifice. In most of the cases examined, the wound has been found en- larged by ulceration, and converted into one of a circular figure, as delineated in fig. 2, plate 10, or the tube has been deficient from the ex- tent of ulceration at the part where the wound had been inflicted. The tendency of the wound to ulcerate after the application of a ligature, is shewn in White’s case; and in all these cases the inflammatory action takes place, as Mr. Hunter, whom nothing escaped, likewise ob- served, between the wounded or tied part and the heart: the obliteration where that has p^'‘tera- tion gene- been effected, or the attempt at it, is likewise miiynext found on the side of the heart *. The ulcera- tive inflammation upon the edges of the wound destroys the process b}^ which the reparation is effected, and which by the eversion of the edges and the presence of the clot is rendered in a degree extraneous to the canal; and it is there- fore a cause of irritation abundantly sufficient for the excitement of continuous inflammation, to which we see that this membrane is so re- markably disposed. Thus “ the imperfection of union is continued on to the cavity of the vein,” and if the presence of a thrombus in excess, the breaking of the agglutination and the ne- cessary displacement of the clot by secondary bleedings, casual or designed, the immediate and unguarded exercise of the limb, the friction of ithe wound in the skin, or the applicationpfadhe- • This was the case in the horse’s vein, described at page 2j6. It constitutes an exception to the results of Professor 'Coleman’s observation.ON W0UND9 AND 282 Sides of veins do not coalesce. sive plasters, which fret and inflame it, are either or any of them acfequate causes of the suppura- tive inflammation in the vicinity of the wound ; they are, I imagine, beginners of the mischief, though it may often be prevented from reaching the interior of the vein. I think, however, that the mode in which the wound is stopped and re- paired, renders more intelligible the effect of these disturbances, and the manner in which from its exposed condition the vein is liable to be involved in the inflammation*; in short that if the wound healed like that of an artery, it would not be subjeetto a secondary inflammation. Although it is clear that veins undergo obli- teration, I do not think it is by a union of the sides of the vein, as is the opinion of Mr. Hun- ter, Mr. Hodgson, and others, or as we observe to be the case in arteries under high inflamma-. tion. The tube, of little less than its ordinary size, is obstructed by masses of lymph ; or not at all reduced in its calibre, where obstruction simply has taken place, is filled by layers of co- agula ; but there is no tendency to contraction of the canal, nor any disposition to adhesive union of the sides of the tube, and indeed the excessive secretion in the one case, and the massive coagulum in the other, are equal- ly barriers to such a union. The disposition of the venous membrane to suppurative or at least mixed inflammation, affords a presumptive argument against its readiness to admit of adhe- bleedinor lepeatrfdly from the same orifice is not, in my opinion, a dRcreef^n^igh a ver}' common one.283 LIGATURES OF VEINS. sive union. That the sides of the vein do not coalesce, is strikingly shewn by the mode of ob- literation which is seen between the seat of in- flammation and the heart, where an excessive furring of the inner membrane has taken place, and probably betwixt the heart and a wound or ligature*. That appearance stops abruptly, the membrane resumes its healthy character, and the tube is gradually contracted to obliteration by an interstitial deposition in the coats of the vein, by which it is rendered a round solid cord of a cartilaginous hardness, in its transverse section narrower considerably than that of the healthy vein. Although imperforate from com- pression, the canal is readily discovered by a section. Dr. Simpson, of St. Andrew’st, had occasion to tie the internal jugular vein in removing a tumor deep seated in the neck, with a part of which it was confounded. After eight days, see- ing no appearance of separation, he cut the vein through immediately below the ligature, and found vein and all quite solid and of a cartila- * The veins seem to fall within the compass of the follow- ing observation:—“ Some surfaces of the body do not so readily unite by the coagulating lymph as others, and there- fore, on such surfaces there is commonly a much larger quan- tity of this matter thrown out than probably would have been if union had readily taken place. Thus we see in inflamma- tion of the heart, that the coagulating lymph is thrown out on the exterior surface in vast quantities, while at the same time the heart shall not adhere to the pericardium.” Hunter on the Blood and-^nflafgsnatmm, p. 305. j-' Edin.*^Ied. Essays, Vol. V. p. 357. u Oblitera- tion bj' in- terstitial deposition. Example.ON WOUNDS AND 284 Suf'cessful operations do not ill* flame the lining membrane. Two modes of ttrmina' tion. ginous firmness. This I conceive was that irt- terstitial thickening which contracts the tube to obliteration. It could not from its situation be a coagulum of blood. Whether the varicose vein, which becomes consolidated, undergoes the interstitial thickening just described, I can- not take upon myself to say ; probably it is only an extended and compact coagulum ; in either case 1 imagine that the vein is ultimately reduced by interstitial absorption to that liga- ment-like state, in which obliterated vessels have repeatedly been found in dissections. ^At all events, 1 think we are Warranted in concliftfeg, that the cure of varix when accomplished, as it often has been, by the operations of tying or dividing the vein, has not been effected by an inflammation of the lining membrane. It appears, upon referring to the histories of these cases, that they have two modes of pro- gress and termination, viz. first, the formation of pus and sometimes of abscesses in the vein, which by ulceration of its sides communicate with the cellular membrane, and point exter- nally in the course of the vessel: secondly, in continuous and pure adhesive inflammation, without any production of matter. Mr. Hunter’s case*, Mr. Oldknow’s, p. ^0^, and that which I have mentioned as occurring in Guy’s Hospital, p. 237, may be taken as examples of the first, where it forms abscess, : an event simply depending on the interspaces v * Med. and Chir. Trans. Vol. I. p. 24. Mr. Hunter’s in- deed is an examjde of both ; he found in some parts suppu- ration only, in others, ulceration and abscess, p.i^iP* 2^0 <5t285 LIGATURES OF VEINS. left by the irregular deposition of adhesive mat- ter, which here and there amounts to a quan- tity sufficient to obstruct the canal. But, al- though the formation of abscess is depending upon the circumstance which I have stated, the suppurative inflammation is mixed with the ad- hesive, as we have shewn, in numerous in- stances; to use Mr. Hunter’s words, “ mixed as if formed with itf the two modes of action “ going hand in handf another and insuper- able impediment to union. The cases given by DnT^vers, Mr. Broughton, and Mr. Oldknow, p. are examples of suppuration in which the vein had not ulcerated so as to form an ab- scess. The cases of White and Crute are ex- amples of the second termination. In these cases, the inflammation produces a continuous and excessive deposition of lymph, which ex- tends to the trunks of the system, and sometimes reaches the heart. There is a marked differ- corre- ence in the symptoms accompanying these diflerence states: the first is a protracted irritation, pro- ducing hectic, and ending in exhaustion : the second is a typhoid fever, such as we often see accompanying the severer forms of local injury, and which speedily producing delirium, termi- nates within a few days. This is a difference, not, as I believe, characterising the mode or -stage of the inflammation, but arising out of its .-situation, extent and communication with the ssurface or otherwise; where the vein of a limb ssuppurates and communicates with the surface, ithe constitutional disorder is of course less ur- igent than^^ere it occupies uninterruptedly theON WOUNDS AND 286 Whence the fatality of these eases. vein which adjoins, or forms the main trunk of the system. The former cases, although always dangerous, are occasionally recovered ; the lat- ter, I imagine, never. There have been many conjectures respecting the cause of the fatal termination of these cases, at which I confess I feel surprised. Among others, the inflammations by extension, of the heart, or the membranes of the brain, and the conveyance of pus into the circulation have been mentioned. Not to insist on the innocuous quality - of pus, it should be observed that the most rapidly destructive inflammation is that which has the true adhesive progress in which no pus is secreted. But if we consider the importance of the veins in the economy, the ex- tent of surface which the collective areae of the venous tubes afford, larger, I imagine, than any of the shut sacs of the body, and the diffused and disorganizing character of the inflammation, we can surely be at no loss to account for the dis- turbance of the system. It is an error to sup- pose, that any quicker sympathy exists between the constitution and the venous, than the ar- terial or absorbent system. I say this, because I have observed something like that superstitious alarm, which is excited by events that we do not expect and cannot explain, has been pro- duced by the fatal catalogue of tied veins, and a comparison of this with the generally suc- cessful cases of tied arteries. All the mystery of veins is, as I have attempted to shew, that they are indisposed to inflame; but when excited, in- flame by continuity, and therefore it is that theLIGATURES OF VEINS. 287 constitution sympathizes so deeply. The same would happen if arteries were subject to a simi- lar law ; and it is fortunate for mankind that this is not the case. Tying or dividing the vein is not a cure for varix ; but if it were, the cure of a disease, which is little more than an inconvenience, would be too dearly bought at a risk of life. It is not so with aneurism. It is my intention to prosecute this investiga- tion, and I shall feel sincerely thankful for any communications connected with a subject of so much intricacy and importance.A. A-ThomsorilliA Ktnncr^\ LcTidon Fuib'sJied Jiini. 7 ^n373. iy £.l'jx S' Sj?i SfTSianuis's S^Scro'ScIoTiaman Su'^FuurrwafrJljv, PLATE lO .289 EXPLANATION OF PLATE X. I Fig. 1. Represents the interior of the vena cava, in the case of Crute, described page 247 ; point to the flakes and fringes of lymph which occupy almost the entire surface of the inflamed tunic. , Fig. 2. Shews the appearance of the jugular vein of the horse, described page 256 j a, I the circular aperture formed by ulceration of the wound made in the phlebotomy. Its internal margin and the surrounding sur- face is coated with adhesive matter. 6, the obliteration of the tube nearer to the heart by an interstitial deposition or thickening of the walls of the vein. A bristle only I could be passed through this portion of the 1 condensed vein, and upon a transverse sec- tion it presented an equal circumferential thickening of the parietes, with great in^ duration. The interior of the vein below ■ is perfectly healthy. J Fig* 3. The tied extremity of the femoral ar^ I tery in the subject oi Jig. 1; a, the lymph plug, occupying the contracted portion II which corresponds to the ligature. || Fig. 4. The tied extremity of the femoral vein of II the same subject; «,«, a bed of lymph depo- II sited exterior to the coats of the vein I and nearly closing its extremity, where the I ligature had been applied, and a fringe-like I deposition covering and intimately adher- I ing to the inner tunic, similar to that re- I presented in Jig. 1. I u290 EXPLANATION OF PLATE XL Represents the healing of wounds in veins. Pig, 1. The interior of the jugular vein of a horse, representing the appearance of a wound at the end of three days; at, the rounded sides of the wound, the cut edges being everted. The wound is filled by a compact clot of blood. Pig. 2. Appearance of a wound at five days; a', the circumference of the wound, which is filled by an oval coagulum having an or- gan izable or membraneous surface ; h, an old cicatrix li^rnred of membrane adven- titious to the vein ; smaller cicatrices are seen in the vicinity. Pig. 3. «, A wound of smaller dimension at six days ; the new membrane completed ; h, old cicatrix. Pig. 4. A wound at eight days. Pig. 5. at, A wound at fourteen days; the vessels upon the interior tunic were seen through a glass to anastomose upon the new membrane. Pig, 6. The jugular vein of the horse inverted and filled with fluid; at, b, c, a?, pouches of the new formed membrane corresponding to as many wounds. This drawing is from a preparation in Mr. Coleman’s Museum at the Veterinary College.PiATB , 119- Errata in Page 284. For p. 240. line 5 from bottom, read 242. p. 227. note, read 250.EXPLANATION OF 292 PL A TE XIII. Represents the appearance of a vein divided by the ligature, which came away on the 25th day ; a, the thin ulcerated edge of the internal tunic of superior extremity; c, c, c, that of the lower extremity smooth and condensed with the sheath j 5, the con- densed cellular membrane corresponding to the bed of the wound. The upper part of the vein is filled with firm layers of coagula which so tenaciously ad- hered to the inner membrane as. to be separated with difficulty; when separated, the surface was found to be perfectly smooth and natural. THE END. G. WOODFALI., PRINTER, AMGIL court, skinner street, LONDON.. ' -.V.-'v ■• ^ •O'! ' V;. • ^4.; -- *."1- :'- ■ ■«• ;c^' •• ,'^t'. '‘Mm I * V *Af-T A*,-v : j , .miv < l j ,’ v/./' ■■/.' , X v\,N ' .. ■ ••Nfifer i VV - ' ‘ Vv ^ ^.•A^f.*r* ^ i^' * Vi/is?# •'V‘f^,f^iS.4A i ^ ?%' j^' . c» >?'^ '**'V' rr. 1-:,A f*:/, ur„ / vT^^f4 Oy^ ^0 g^ -*4 !51iM