803 ACCIDENTS DURING AND AFTER INTUBATION. or to the face, by a strip of plaster. I usually allow the thread to re- main in place for from twelve to twenty-four hours, bringing it out at one angle of the mouth, and passing the loop around the ear, and securing the thread to the face by a strip of rubber plaster extending from the ear to the angle of the mouth; this prevents the child grasp- ing it and displacing the tube. To prevent the child biting the thread, where it is possible, I also pass the thread between the molar or pre- molar teeth. In cases where a child has a tendency to grasp the thread, it is well to enclose the hands in mittens or stockings, and secure them to a band fastened around the waist. The most common mistake which is liable to occur in introducing an intubation-tube is to pass it over the epiglottis and into the pharynx, but this error is discovered as soon as the obturator is withdrawn, and the tube should then be removed by the attached thread and reattached to the introducer, and another attempt should be made to pass it into the larynx. This error I have often seen occur in the hands of both experienoed and inexperienced operators, and I think it is due to the fact that in introducing the tube they are not careful enough to hug the base of the tongue closely with its end, and to keep it strictly in the median line. The operator is less liable to make this mistake if he is mindful of the position of the index finger of the left hand, which should be held in contact with the epiglottis, and which serves as a guide to the opening of the larynx. Accidents During and After Intubation.—Accidents may occur during the operation of intubation, such as pushing a mass of mem- brane down into the trachea before the tube, or a too deep insertion of the tube may be made so that its head passes below the vocal cords; accidents of this nature have been reported, but I personally have never had any serious accident occur during the operation. One of the most serious accidents is the pushing downward of a mass of membrane before the intubation-tube, which is likely to embarrass the respiration so seriously that in the violent expiratory efforts of the child the tube may be forced out of the larynx; if, however, this does not occur, the tube should be removed by traction upon the thread; and if, after its re- moval, respiration is still seriously embarrassed, tracheotomy should be promptly performed. The too-deep insertion of the intubation-tube into the larynx, so that its head passes below the cords, is not likely to occur if a tube of the proper size and shape be employed; a tube which is too small may be readily forced between the vocal cords, or may be drawn down into the trachea by the inspiratory efforts of the child, after it has been introduced. If this accident should occur, and the respiration be seriously embarrassed or arrested, the tube can quickly be removed by traction upon the thread, but if it should occur after the removal of the thread it would be necessary to open the trachea to ac- complish the removal. Several cases of this nature have been reported in which it was necessary to resort to tracheotomy to accomplish the re- moval of a misplaced intubation-tube. It often happens that after an intubation-tube has been retained for a few days, it is coughed up, and upon being replaced the same accident occurs again. Under such cir- cumstances a larger tube should be tried, and if it cannot he tolerated by the larynx, and is displaced, if the dyspnoea is still present, further