CLUB-FOOT. 545 massage on the foot for months and even for years to prevent relapse, to which there is necessarily a constant tendency. The most troublesome resultant condition to overcome will be the tendency to inversion of the toes. This is best obviated by full correc- tion at the time of the operation, the subsequent long-continued use of everting manipulations and gymnastics for ankle, legs, and thigh, and the employment of apparatus extending to the pelvis so as to compel eversion. The spiral spring of Doyle is also useful. Operations in Older Children and in Adults.—When a club-foot has been subjected to weight-bearing for a number of years, the distortion of bones and the contraction of tissues become exceedingly great, and most forcible measures become necessary. Unless months or years are to be consumed in the treatment, it should be commenced by operative measures. Multiple and free sections of all contracted tendons and tissues should be the rule, and full and complete rectification at the time of operation should be accomplished if possible. The division in the worst cases may include not only tendons and fasciae, but also the shortened internal ligaments, and sometimes every- thing but the skin; thus making a section as complete as an open inci- sion, except that it is subcutaneous and does not leave the scar of the latter operation. Necessarily the internal plantar artery is divided, but I have never seen any serious result therefrom. A very strong-shanked tenotome is needful for the plantar section. Tearing of the skin upon the inner side of the arch is rarely occa- sioned, and even should it happen, the operation may be completed by clean open section, just as if the latter had been undertaken as a primary procedure. When the surgeon lacks strength to straighten the deformity he may employ Thomas’s wrench, or the powerful instruments of Bradford,1 Morton,2 and others. The use of these tarsoclasts is attended with danger to the soft parts, and pressure must not be prolonged. Hand pressure over a smooth wood fulcrum is safer. (4) Open Incision.—This operation, commonly known as Phelps’s, at- tacks the deformity by a complete open division of all the contracted tissues in the concavity of the arch, by elongation of this space, and by filling the gap with granulation tissue. W7hen the internal lateral ligaments are divided, the foot can be elongated, and becomes a better walking member than when the convexity of the arch-has been dis- turbed by bone removal. The incision extends from a half-inch in front of the internal malleo- lus. across the sole as far as necessary. The artery and nerve should be avoided if possible, but section of both tibial tendons and of all the con- tracted fasciae is necessary, and sometimes division of the abductor pollicis. flexor brevis, and the entire internal ligaments is demanded. (5) Tarsotomy.—Astragaloid osteotomy has been occasionally em- ployed with success, and is a perfectly feasible operation. After thor- ough tenotomy, fasciotomy, and stretching, an incision is made from the tip of the inner malleolus to the inner side of the head of the first meta- tarsal, nearly parallel to the tibialis anticus tendon. Care should be exercised lest the scaphoid be mistaken for the astragalus. After 1 Bradford and Lovett, Orthopaedic Surgery, 1890, p. 484. ‘ Trans. Amer. Orthop., Assoc., vol. i., and Agnew’s Surgery, 2d ed., vol. iii. p. 343. VOL. VII —35