TUMORS. 238 teric canal, which in very early life makes one continuous passage of the intestinal and spinal canals, passing around the tip of the coccyx, takes place farther down than the meeting-point of the anal and intestinal segments of the bowel, leaving a short pouch which subsequently becomes atrophied. Should this pouch persist after being shut off, it would give rise to dermoid cysts in the pelvis, where they are occasionally found between the rectum and sacrum. These dermoid cysts contain hair and teeth, and may attain a large size, even 76 centimetres in circumfer- ence. They can he removed by incisions behind the anus. Trzebicky has reported one case of this kind in which the tumor was hour-glass in shape, having one part und£r the gluteal muscles and another in the pelvis, and refers to three similar cases. Probably the dermoid in the deep tissues of the thigh, reported by Hulke, had its origin in some such way, having been displaced in later life. Ovarian dermoids take their origin from the ooplioritic portions of the gland, and although the ovary is in its follicles a modified mucous gland, it must be remembered that the distinction between skin and mucous membrane is not as great as at first appears. The mucous membrane of the conjunctiva is really derived from the skin, and occa- sionally reverts to that structure. In some rodents hair is found on the inner surface of the cheek, and in one species of bird hair guards the pyloric orifices of the stomach. Therefore it is not incomprehensible that dermoids should arise in this locality. The ovarian are the most complex of all dermoids in their structure, so much so that some authors have been led into the supposition of the existence of some sort of auto- genetic power in the tissues of the ovary, leading to a kind of monstrous pregnancy. But increasing embryological knowledge has dispelled all such ideas. Another theory derives the dermoid cysts from ectodermic cells which have found their way into the axis cord from which the ovary develops, as it is known that this cord is made up of mesoblastic cells, but in such a way that it would be easy for cells from the epi- blast and hypoblast to be also included. Ovarian dermoid cysts give no particular sjmiptoms, as they are usu- ally of small size, averaging about the bulk of a foetal head at term, though they occasionally increase to the size of an adult’s head. But they are more liable than other cysts to such accidents as rotation of the pedicle and inflammation. Usually single, they are occasionally multiple (although always unilocular), and in about one quarter of the cases occur in both ovaries simultaneously. They are also quite liable to various secondary formations, such as retention cysts of the sebaceous and sweat glands, adenoma originating in the same glands, epithelioma developing on the surface of the cutaneous lining, carcinoma in some of the glandular structures, or sarcoma from any of the connective- tissue group of elements which are present. It has even been observed that a sort of peritoneal metastasis occurs, in which small secondary tumors appear scattered over the peritoneum. The cysts may also coalesce, the contiguous walls opening into each other by pressure, or they may open into some of the abdominal viscera. Doran and most other authors deny that dermoid cysts are to be found in the abdomen except in connection with the ovary, claiming that the reported cases have been only instances in which dermoids of the ovary had broken free from their pedicles and had become adherent to the