DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 906 seldom good sphincteric action after extirpation for any cause, and yet the patients are comfortable. The choice between an anus without sphincteric power in the perineum and the same condition in the groin is, according to my contention, not sufficiently great to make it worth while to do a capital operation like excision, instead of one of little or no mortality like colotomy, to secure it. A case reported a year or so ago in one of the English journals gives so good an idea of the whole subject that it may be instructive to refer to it. A poor woman in the hospital was an object of loathing to her- self and everybody else because of incontinence of faeces from some old disease of the rectum. To relieve this uncleanly and disgusting condi- tion an operation was done which to the popular mind produces just the condition for which she desired relief—left inguinal colotomy. The operation was eminently successful, and the patient was once more com- fortable and happy. For my own cases, I can only say that though I have done the opera- tion many times upon men and women in every social scale, I have yet to meet the first patient who desired to have it undone, and to be placed again in the condition which existed before. Excision or Extirpation of the Rectum. Another great advance in the surgery of the rectum has been the ap- plication of the operation of excision to non-malignant cases. For- merly this operation was considered so dangerous as to be justifiable only in malignant disease, but with improved technique the mortality of the operation itself has been greatly reduced, and it now takes rank among our best means of treating non-malignant ulceration and stric- ture. Here again we have to consider carefully the indications for its performance, and first it must be noted that mere stenosis of the rec- tum, within easy reach of the anus and not associated with much ulcer- ation, is comparatively amenable to local treatment by incision and dila- tation combined. It would be a very extensive stricture indeed that would force me to do a colotomy were it unattended by ulceration, and the same statement applies in a measure to extirpation; hut all rules for treatment must be modified by the surroundings of the patient. It seems hard to say that colotomy is often better for a poor man in hospi- tal, and dilatation for a rich one in his own home, but it is unquestiona- bly true. The treatment by division and subsequent dilatation must be kept up for years, and cannot be trusted to the patient, but must in great part be done by the surgeon. The hospital patient soon grows weary of attending the dispensary and of using the bougie, and in a few months the stricture is as tight as ever. Therefore, in the more severe cases, it is often better to do a colotomy at once, or, in those that are suitable, an excision. The strictures best fitted for extirpation are such as are less in extent than those for which colotomy is usually practised-—cases where the ulceration cannot be cured by local treatment, and yet where the disease is not so extensive as to render its removal by the knife a capital surgical operation, and where the surrounding parts are healthy, so that primary union may be hoped for. Again, strictures which are situated far enough from the anus to allow resection and subsequent