AFFECTIONS OF THE IRIS AND CILIARY BODY. 685 ing and shrinking gradually detaches the retina from the choroid, and produces blindness. The eye loses its elasticity and becomes soft, the ball is smaller, the cornea is flattened and the anterior chamber ob- literated, the iris is atrophied, and the positions of the recti muscles are apparent by their indentations in the sclerotic coat. The development of atrophy is slow and painless, except perhaps in cases where ossifica- tion occurs in the choroid. Etiology of Iritis and Cyclitis.—The causes are primary and secon- dary, and Fuchs classifies them as follows:— f Iritis in consequence of general disease A—Primary iritis { I ^ Iritis as a local affection B—Secondary iritis. f 1. Iritis syphilitica. I 0 ti cevofnlnon 2. “ scrofulosa. 3. “ tuberculosa. 4. ii rheumatica. 5. “ gonorrhceica. 6. “ in acute infectious diseases. i. U diabetica. 8. u idiopathica. 9. u traumatica. 10. a sympathetica. Syphilitic iritis is present in at least fifty per cent, of all cases. Be- sides constitutional symptoms there are usually nodules at the pupillary margin, but at times these are absent and, as far as the iris is concerned, there are no pathognomonic signs of syphilis. It usually follows the first eruption in the skin, but occasionally comes much later. When due to hereditary syphilis it is not so severe as in the acquired disease; the former is more commonly seen in children and young persons, whereas the latter occurs in adults. Syphilitic iritis is frequently associated with inflammation of the choroid, retina, and optic nerve. Scrofulous iritis in appearance is somewhat like that due to syphilis. It is seen in children, young persons, and at times in the ansemic. Tuberculous iritis is frequently seen in children. There are small nodules and at times larger growths. These eyes are usually lost, though occasionally they recover. Rheumatic iritis occurs in persons of rheumatic diathesis. A simi- lar form occurs in those who have gout. Gonorrhoeal Iritis.—This form is seen when the general system has become infected by the poison. It is liable to recurrence, especially in connection with fresh outbreaks of the urethral discharge and swelling of the joints. The iritis of acute and infectious diseases occurs in relapsing fever, and at times in variola, typhus, etc. Diabetic iritis is frequently associated with hypopyon, but its course is generally favorable. Idiopathic Iritis.—The etiology of these cases cannot be traced, but it is probable that some of the above-mentioned causes are present though not recognized. Traumatic iritis is produced by any traumatism, especially by blows, the presence of foreign bodies, injuries during operations, etc. Sympathetic Irido-cyclitis; Sympathetic Ophthalmia.—The inflam- mation passes from the injured eye to its fellow. A sharp line must be drawn between symjjcdhetic ophthalmia and sympathetic irritation. The latter, according to Schirmer, is a variable condition, but has two prominent characteristics, viz., no true inflammatory changes, and de-