OPERATIONS PRACTISED UPON NERVES. 387 result was not known. Of secondary suture he has collected 73 cases, with 32 successes, 26 partial successes, and 15 failures. Nerve Grafting.—Successful results have been obtained by Robson, Landerer, and others. Assaky has suggested the use of loops of cat- gut between the divided nerve ends to aid in the healing process; it is not possible at the present time to state definitely the value of this procedure. It has also been suggested to introduce a decalcified bone tube between the ends of the nerve, on the supposition that nerve tissue would be prolonged into the calibre of the tube. Operations for Trifacial Neuralgia.— First Division.— The supra-orbital nerve may be readily exposed by making an incision along the upper margin of the orbit, parallel with the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, the centre of the incision corresponding to the supra- orbital notch or foramen. After division of the orbicularis and the fibrous membrane of the lids, the nerve may be seized and a portion excised. The supra-trochlear nerve, the other terminal branch of the frontal, which makes its exit from the orbit between the supra-orbital foramen and the pulley for the superior oblique, may also be reached by an incision along the upper margin of the orbit, nearer the internal canthus. Second Division.—Subcutaneous division of the inf ra-orbited nerve at its foramen of exit was formerly practised, but at the present time is not considered desirable. To resect a portion of this nerve it is simply necessary to make a semilunar incision over the infra-orbital margin, parallel with the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum; the nerve makes its exit under the levator palpebrm superioris; upon finding it here, a portion is excised, or the method of Thiersch may be followed: this consists in seizing the nerve with a pair of forceps and, by rotating the instrument, coiling up the nerve on the forceps and finally tearing it away; thus not only the proximal but also the distal portion is torn away, and in this manner quite a long piece may he removed. Wagner, after exposing the nerve, raised the orbital contents from the floor of the orbit, separated the artery from the nerve, chiselled open the canal, and then severed the nerve behind the posterior dental branches. Fow- ler compared this method with the removal of Meckel’s ganglion, and found that the latter method gave slightly better results. Horsley has described a similar operation: in this, the lids are first sutured together, the orbital periosteum is raised up, the canal opened with a pair of for- ceps, and the nerve traced to the foramen rotundum, where it is divided. In Carnochan’s method, which was suggested and carried out for the first time in 1858, Meckel’s ganglion is removed along with the nerve. A “V” or “ T'5 shaped incision is made upon the cheek, and the infra- orbital foramen exposed; the anterior wall of the antrum of Highmore is trephined, and then the posterior, using a smaller trephine for the posterior wall; the floor of the infra-orbital canal is broken through, and the nerve is traced back to the foramen rotundum, where it is divided with a long curved pair of scissors and removed along with Meckel’s ganglion. Bleeding from branches of the internal maxillary artery will be rather profuse, and electric light or a reflecting mirror will be found very useful.