ULCERS. 169 Tubercular Ulcer.—This form of ulcer results from a tubercular abscess of the cutaneous or subcutaneous tissues and lymphatic glands, and usually occurs in early life. A tubercular ulcer presents very characteristic symptoms, its edges being undermined and presenting a dull-purple, congested appearance, while its granulations are dark-col- ored and flahby, and the discharge usually thin. Treatment.—The undermined edges of the ulcer should be trimmed away with scissors or knife, and the granulating surface should be thoroughly curetted. If the ulcer has originated in lymphatic glands which have broken down, the gland-tissue and the sheaths of the glands should be removed. It should then be irrigated with a 1-2000 bichloride solution, and the freshened surface should be well dusted with powdered iodoform, or should be covered with strips of gauze soaked in iodoform emulsion and glycerin (1-10), this in turn being covered with a pad of iodoform gauze and a few layers of bichloride cotton. Under this dressing, which should be renewed every two or three days, healing will often occur very rapidly. In addition to the local treatment, the patient should be given iodide of iron and cod-liver oil, and a nutritious diet; stimulants also are indicated in many cases. Syphilitic Ulcers.—Two forms of syphilitic ulcer are seen among the later manifestations of constitutional syphilis; the ulcer resulting from a broken-down gumma, and the serpiginous syphilitic ulcer; the latter is often preceded by the development of nodules in the skin. The ulcer resulting from a broken-down gumma may have clearly cut edges, or these may be undermined, if the destruction of the subcutane- ous tissue has been greater than that of the skin. The surface of the ulcer is usually covered by grayish sloughs. Treatment.-—The ulcer should be thoroughly irrigated or sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen and washed with a 1-2000 bichloride solution, to cleanse it and remove as far as possible the sloughs. It should then be dusted with powdered iodoform or aristol, or the iodoform may be applied in the form of an ointment in the strength of 15-30 grains to the ounce of vaseline. The dressing should be completed by the ap- plication of a pad of iodoform gauze and a few layers of cotton. In this form of ulcer there is little chance of healing unless active con- stitutional treatment is instituted at the same time. The patient should be given iodide of potassium in full doses, and in many cases this drug is well combined with the biniodide or bichloride of mercury, while sometimes, in addition to the above remedies, the use of iron and cod-liver oil is followed by the best results. The repair of syphilitic ulcers is usually very rapid under the use of these local and constitu- tional remedies. The serpiginous syphilitic ulcer is usually preceded by the develop- ment of nodules or tubercules in the skin, which are similar in their structure to the larger gummata. The tubercules break down, leaving ulcers which become serpiginous and may involve a considerable amount of tissue. Treatment of Serpiginous Ulcers.—The surface of the ulcer should be sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen to cleanse its surface, and the ulcer and swollen tissues surrounding it should be covered by an ointment consisting of