426 INJURIES OF BONES. which I am myself accustomed to obtain, or than those which I have seen in the practice of others. Nor does this method seem to shorten appreciably the duration of treatment. Blaker1 claims to have had a case of recovery in one month, from an impacted fracture of the femoral neck, in a woman aged 57, treated merely with extension. Cheyne2 gives the case of a woman aged 52, in whom the fragments were pegged together with ivory, there being no impaction, but a shortening of 1^ inches; the dressings were finally removed on the 61st day, and on the 131st she was dismissed; a month after she was again seen, and the result was reported to be “fairly good.” In a case of non-union of the femoral neck in a robust man, aged 36, injured nineteen months previously, Loreta 3 is said to have obtained success by opening the joint from behind, dividing the fibrous tissue be- tween the fragments, scraping the ends of the latter, and introducing eight or ten metallic wires between them for five days; union took place by first intention, in less than a month there was no pain, and on the fifty-fifth day the patient walked with only the aid of an attend- ant's hand. The use of the wires here would seem to have been merely as a sort of seton, and there must have been great risk of setting up an arthritis. Allis has discussed4 the causes of difficulty in the treatment of frac- tures in the upper third of the femoral shaft, which he thinks have hitherto been misapprehended. He argues that the shortening is due to angular displacement, only aggravated by extension; and proposes to resort to an operation, laying bare the fragments and securing their apposition by means of metal screws, in all such cases. Bold as this suggestion may seem, it is supported by very strong arguments, and certainly merits full consideration. Fractures of the shaft of the femur by muscular action have been reported by Burr6 (two cases, both in paretics), by Ewing/by Lydston,7 and by Beck8 (in a boy only 64 years old, who was trying to lift a play- mate on his back). I have myself recently seen a similar case in a man aged 30, apparently quite healthy, whose femur gave way as he slipped on the ice and tried to avoid a fall. The subject of the treatment of fractures of the shaft of the femur, and of the results to be expected, was discussed by Dr. Stephen Smith in an excellent paper presented to the American Surgical Association in 1890.9 A committee was appointed to consider the matter, and re- ported 10 at length, with the following conclusions: A satisfactory result has been obtained when— “1. Firm bony union exists. “ 2. The long axis of the lower fragment is either directly continuous with that of the upper fragment or is on nearly parallel lines, thus preventing angular deformity. “ 3. The anterior surface of the lower fragment maintains nearly its normal relation to the plane of the upper fragment, thus preventing undue deviation of the foot from its normal position. ’ British Med. Journal, Nov. 28, 1885. 3 Ibid., Aug. 25, 1888. 5 Medical Standard, December, 1889. 1 Physician and Surgeon, Oct., 1892. 9 Transactions, vol. viii., p. 39. 2 Ibid., March 7, 1891. 4 Medical News, Nov. 21, 1891. 6 British Med. Journal, March 21, 1889. 8 Jahrbuch fur Ivinderheilkunde, 1886. 10 Ibid., vol. ix., p. 81.