DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. 94 convulsions, often vomiting, and paralysis ensue, and are not seldom followed, a few hours after the infection, by death from paralysis of the respiratory organs. No bacteria are found in the blood or in the internal viscera. If putrid liquids containing bacteria are kept twenty- four hours in the incubator at a temperature of 40° C. (104° F.) their infectiousness is very great, but after forty-eight hours they have no effect whatever (Petrone). In the bacterial septicsemic infection, great quantities of bacteria are found, especially in the blood, but also in the tissues. Koch described two kinds of bacterial septicaemia, that of mice and that of rabbits, both caused by bacilli. The bacilli of septicaemia in mice are extremely fine rods, simi- lar to the bacilli of swine-plague (Schweineroth- lauf). The bacillus of septicaemia in rabbits, de- scribed by Gaffky, is exactly identical with or closely allied to the bacteria of chicken-cholera, and to the bacteria which promote similar diseases in pigs, ducks, and deer (Schiitz, Cornil, Kitt, Hueppe). Hneppe proposed for the latter bacteria the col- lective name of bacteria of hemorrhagic septicaemia, septicaemias, toxic products are, of course, also formed; thus Hoffa iso- lated, in the septicaemia of rabbits, a toxic base, methylguanidin (C2H.,N3), probably produced by the oxidation of creatin. There is also a septicaemia produced by cocci in animals (Figs. 1586, 1587). One of these is the coccus of sputum septicaemia (A. Frankel), which can be caused in rabbits by injecting human saliva. The same coccus is very likely the promoter of croupous pneumonia in man. We Fig. 1587. Streptococci between the Muscular Fibres. Colored with gentian violet after Gram’s method. X 250. may mention besides the streptococcus septicus (Fliigge), also a coccus found by Nicolaier and Guarnieri in decaying earth, very similar to the streptococcus pyogenes; and finally the micrococcus tetragonus (Gaff- ky). Severe septicaemia is sometimes transferred to man by parrots. Lepetit found in such a case a small coccus, which he cultivated pure Fig. 1586. Streptococcus of Progressive Gangrene in Mice. (After R. Koch.) a. Cells of the aural carti- Fig. 1585. Blood of a Septicaemic Mouse. Red blood-corpus- cles and small bacilli. In these bacterial