OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 1006 isli the woman's resisting power that she is exposed to other disorders; the pressure of even small tumors obstructs the ureters and brings about secondary renal changes; an intra-ligamentous fibroid may he re- movable at an early period of its growth and afterward be irremovable; the woman is exposed to the dangers incident to abortion and ob- structed labor; the presence of a fibroid condition of the uterus seems to render the woman more liable to the occurrence of malignant disease. In 205 cases of uterine fibroid analyzed by Martin, sarcoma- tous degeneration was found in six. The mortality at the present day is very small after the operation for uterine fibroid. Old statistics in regard to hysterectomy, the most radical method of treatment proposed for the cure of uterine fibroids, are valueless for forming an opinion in regard to these cases. The most recent statistics show that (in skilled hands) the whole fibroid tumor may be removed with as little danger to life as attends the removal of an ovarian cyst. Consequently the element of mortality need not as formerly have weight in our determination as to the best course of treatment. Chrobak 1 reports 38 unselected cases of operation for uterine fibroid. In 20 cases where total extirpation was done there was no death. In 18 cases where the uterus was amputated through the cervix and the stump treated intraperitoneally there was one death. Rosthorn 2 reports 30 operations done during two years with one death. In all the cases the stump was treated intraperitoneally. Baer re- ports3 34 intraperitoneal operations with two deaths. I myself during a period of six months removed the uterus 20 times, consecutively, by coeliotomy, with no deaths, the pedicle being treated intraperitoneally. The electrical treatment of uterine fibroids does not stand the test of time. It has been employed enthusiastically by many surgeons opposed to the use of the knife, only to be dropped after a fruitless trial. The electrical treatment does not cure the disease; it delays more useful treatment; it has caused severe pelvic inflammation ; and it has resulted in death.4 Cutter had four deaths in his first fifty cases.5 Medical treatment relieves the symptoms but is not curative in cases of fibroid tumor of the uterus. The only means of cure is through an operation, and the methods which experience has proved to be useful are removal of the Fallopian tubes and ovaries—to arrest menstruation, to arrest the functional activity and growth of the uterus, and ultimately to cause its atrophy—and the operation of hysterectomy, or removal of the uterus with the attached growths. Removal of Tubes and Ovaries.—The operation of castration is especially applicable to fibroid tumors occurring in young women, or in the early stage of any fibroid tumor. It is also most desirable as an earl}7 operation in fibroid tumors which have become or are becoming intraligamentous. For these tumors produce the most disastrous results by pressure, and from the position which they occupy in the pelvis they are exceedingly difficult to remove by any surgical operation. Therefore, the stoppage of their growth at an early stage is to be de- sired. All varieties of fibroid tumor have been cured by this opera- 1 Centralblatt fur Gyn., No. 20, 1893. 2 Wien. klin. Wock., Nos. 41 und 42, 1893. 3 Trans. Am. Gyn. Soc., 1893. 4 Journ. Electro-Therap., June, 1888, p. 170. 6 Pozzi, Med. and Surg. Gynaecology, vol. i., p. 251.