DISEASES OF BRAIN FROM SUPPURATIVE DISEASE OF MIDDLE EAR. 597 care being taken, of course, not to wound the lateral sinus and also not to go so deep as to injure the facial nerve. The ansesthetizer should be notified to watch for any twitching of the facial muscles, and to warn the operator of his proximity to the nerve as shown by this symptom. The nerve is not commonly encountered. As an antiseptic, up to this point, the ordinary 1-1000 .sublimate solution may be used, and the cavity may be lightly packed with iodoform gauze. Macewen 1 has called attention to what he has denominated the supra-meatal triangle. (Fig. 1688.) This triangle is bounded above by the root of the zygoma; in front by the posterior wall of the meatus, and posteriorly by a line uniting these two. In most skulls (about 9d per cent.) as soon as the bone is bared, this triangle is perceived as a shallow depression. The antrum always lies within this triangle, and the sigmoid sinus, that is, the curved part of the lateral sinus, always lies posterior to it. If these operative measures do not soon relieve the symptoms, and especially if the hebetude deepens and if localized convulsions or paralysis occur, with rapid emaciation, subnormal temperature, and Fig. 1689. Landmarks for Incision for Abscess of Brain, aa. Reid’s base line; c. point at which to trephine for abscess of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe 1*4 inches behind the meatus and 1J4 inches above Reid's base line; i. foramen for mastoid vein; o, point of trephining to reach cerebellum; x, site of mastoid antium 14 inch behind and above external auditory meatus. (Barker.) slow pulse, it is almost certain that the condition has gone beyond mere mastoid disease, and that an abscess has been developed. This, if in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, is best reached by applying a half- inch trephine at a point an inch and a quarter behind the external auditory meatus and an inch and a quarter above Reid’s base line, which is a line drawn from the inferior border of the orbit through the middle of the external meatus. This is the point chosen for trephining by Barker (Fig. 1689, c), and has the advantage that if no abscess be found, it is far enough away from the ear and mastoid to be protected from septic infection. The dura having been exposed, it should be opened by a crucial incision. If an abscess is present the probabilities are that the brain will bulge and not show any pulsation. A grooved director should next be inserted in the axis of the temporo-sphenoidal 1 Pyogenic Infective Diseases of the Brain and the Spinal Cord.