449 DISORDERS OF PHYSIOLOGICAL PROCESSES. may result in curvatures and twists upon the long axis of the bone, and may produce a species of deformity, the nature of which is unmis- takable when once it has been seen and properly interpreted. Fractures in which the fracturing violence carries with it some con- tusion of the bones, are in very many cases followed by persistent en- largement at or near the point of fracture, which may be misunder- stood by patients and their friends, or even by surgeons, to such an extent as to lead to unpleasant reflections upon the skill of the surgeon, or even to suits for malpractice. In fractures at the lower end of the radius, it is very common to see what we may call a contused fracture (to coin an expression); and doubtless some cases described as impacted fracture in this position are cases of simple contusion in which, of course, the canals of the spongy tissue at the expanded extremity of the bones are broken. Contusion, in the sense in which it is found in the soft parts, is not possible in an organ made up of rigid walls with soft contents; but in the cases of which I am speaking there is no separation of any part of the bone from the main portion, and there- fore no fracture in the ordinary and common sense of the term. Traumatic osteitis is sometimes observed near the seat of fractures in consequence of irritation applied after the occurrence of the fracture. Such irritation may be the effect of the use of unsuitable apparatus, or of unwise manipulation. The rather widespread impression that so- called traumatic swelling is inevitable in most cases of fracture, certifies to the frequency with which these injuries are treated in a way to in- crease the physiological excitement really inseparable from their oc- currence; and the freedom from swelling and pain which may be secured in most simple fractures testifies to the fact that such swell- ing—and inferentially osteitis—is occasioned either by an unusual de- gree of local traumatism, or by subsequent irritation of the part. In this connection it is probably hardly necessary to speak of the fact that traumatisms of the bones constitute a very common mode of furnishing admission to various infective agents; so that what was originally a simple traumatic osteitis may in a short time become a very serious infective osteitis. II. Neurotic Osteitis.—Disorders of the bones due to pure nerve influence belong properly under disorders of nutrition, and have been referred to in that place. It is doubtful if the processes observed and called osteitis in nervous disorders sought to be spoken of as such, since they are free from inflammatory symptoms. III. Infective Osteitis.—Under this head may be considered the largest number of, and the most interesting, cases of disease of the bones. The histoiy of this subject is comparatively recent; because, whatever suspicions have been entertained in times past in regard to the possible causation of diseases by living parasitic agents, it is only of late that the study of this hypothesis has been conducted with the means and by methods calculated to make it exact and extensive. The principal forms of infective osteitis are infectious osteomy- elitis, tuberculous osteitis, leprosy of the bones, syphilitic osteitis, hy- datids of the bones, and actinomycosis. VOL. vii.—29