401 TUMORS OF BURSiE. into the joint being discovered, and the bony growth was removed. The capsule was lined with endothelial cells, and two pedunculated bodies hung from the edges of the cartilage-covered exostosis, while around its margins were numerous villi with constricted bases, that is, bodies which when detached would constitute “ free cartilages.” 1 Case II.—A healthy man, aged 20, was admitted in March, 1888, into the Montreal General Hospital, with a tumor located upon the inner side of the femur, which was of nine years’ duration, and which when first noticed had been of the size of a marble, and movable. He stated that it had become fixed and firm about four years before. Never painful or tender, during the last few months he had experienced inconvenience in the muscles when going up or down stairs or from overexertion. Upon examination, an apparently pedunculated tumor the “size of a base-ball,” with indistinct outlines, was discovered on the inner side of one femur. Upon operation, April 4, 1888, fifty-five free bodies varying in size from that of a pea to that of a large bean were evacuated with much tenacious fluid. The irregular exostosis, covered with a continuous mosaic of cartilage plates, was attached to the “linea aspera below the epiphyseal line by a pedicle one-half inch in diameter and three-fourths of an inch long.” The sac, which was dissected out, did not communicate with the knee-joint, but was identical in structure with an articular synovial membrane; the exostosis was also removed.2 Hygroma Proliferans Endothelialis.—Morisani reports a case of this rare disease attacking the bursa at the attachment of the tibialis posticus. The wall consisted of two layers, the internal being evidently neoplastic, and presenting microscopic evidences—according to the author—which excluded the idea of its being of either a simple in- flammatory, a tubercular, or a sarcomatous nature.3 The number of cases of neoplasms originating from either bursse themselves or the scars left after their removal by the knife, is very small. In ad- dition to those mentioned in the article in Vol. III., and one of alleged carcinoma of the bursa beneath the ten do Achillis, mentioned by Platner. I would refer to Yon Ranke’s article, where he either describes or quotes references to the following casas: Myxoma (sarcomatous ?) of the prepatellar bursa; round-celled sarcoma of the pretibial (?) bursa (mentioned by Ranke as reported by A. Smith, but it is not clearly stated which bursa was involved); sarcoma over the patella4; hem- orrhagic sarcoma (?) of subquadricipital bursa; angeioma from the scar of an obliterated prepatellar hygroma. Holscher refers in a vague way, in his translation of Brodie on Diseases of the Joints, to hemor- rhagic sarcoma originating after treating hygroma by the seton; Schuh's case of cystic hygroma 5 was probably only a relapse of the original condition, viz., hygroma; Dollinger reports a papilloma of the prepatellar bursa originating from a fistulous track leading down to an old suppurating bursa;6 Mikulicz reports a similar instance.7 These cases show that some communicating track leading to an epi- thelial-covered surface is a requisite antecedent before an epitlielioma- 1 Archiv f. klin. Chirurg., 1886, Bd. xxxiii, Heft I. (Annals of Surgery, vol. iv., p. 78). 2 James Bell, Annals of Surgery, vol. ix., p. 112. See also Orlow, Annals of Surgery, vol. xv., p. 400, or Deutsche Zeitschr. fur Chirurg., Bd. xxxi., Heft 3, 4. Only ten cases of this rare disease have, as far as I can ascertain, been placed on record. 3 Progresso Medico ; Rivista clinica dell’ Universita di Napoli, No. 6, 1890. 4 Gurlt, Path. Anat. der Gelenkkrankheiten, S. 580. 5 Path, und Therap. der Pseudoplasmen, 1854, S. 201. 6 Archiv f. klin. Chirurgie, Bd. xxii., S. 697. 7 Separat-Abdruck aus den Verliandlungen des XIY. Chirurgen-Congresses, S. 5-19. VOL. vii.—26