498 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 1 Beitr. z. klin. Chirurgie. Tubingen, 1887. clay or two from one to two degrees. Bruns says that he has never met with cases of iodoform intoxication from these injections. In connection with this I am tempted to speak of a case under my own observation, in which a sinus communicates with a diseased hip-joint of many years’ standing. The patient is a physician of unusual intelli- gence. Iodoform bougies of three grains each were prescribed, one to be put into the sinus every night. The patient finds invariably that after the use of these bougies for a few days, an irritating coryza be- gins, and continues until their use is discontinued. After he stops using them the coryza immediately stops, only to return again after they are resumed. This case may perhaps serve as a contrast to those reported by the enthusiastic advocates of the use of large amounts of iodoform in closed cavities. For two years Krause treated tubercular affections of the joints by intra-articular injections of iodoform, as follows:— Trendelenburg treated 135 cases by the injection method, and re- ported that in 68 per cent, there were favorable results. Comparatively few instances of serious poisoning have been reported in connection with this mode of treatment, though toxic effects have-been noticed after an injection of only one decigramme of iodoform. The use of this remedy dissolved in ether is objectionable on account of the vaporization of the latter at the temperature of the body, which causes so much distention that it may even lead to gangrene in extreme cases. It is said 1 that tubercular abscesses, treated by iodoform injections and examined at different intervals subsequently, show disappearance of the bacilli, and that ultimately the tubercles themselves disappear by fatty degeneration of the cells and liquefaction of the cellular detritus. With regard to the treatment by iodoform injection, Senn says that its curative power has so far been most manifest in the treatment of what have been heretofore most hopeless cases of surgical tubercu- losis—tubercular abscesses in connection with inaccessible osseous foci. In the successful cases not only abscesses but the primary bone lesions are also cured. This mode of treatment deserves consideration, as has been said, on account of the weight of authority in its favor; but at the same time it is evidently advocated by enthusiasts, and its real value must be regarded as something to be proven by careful and scien- tific experiment. It must manifestly be unsafe to inject large quantities of iodoform into closed cavities in every instance, especially in the case of delicate children, and few surgeons who have used iodoform freely have been so fortunate as to escape without some annoying or alarming symp- toms of iodoform intoxication. References have been given so that the reader may be able to judge for himself of the merits and the claims of this plan of treatment. If it be decided to adopt it, the joint or ab- scess cavity should be irrigated with a solution of boric acid, carbolic acid, or corrosive sublimate, until the fluid returns clear, and then Knee joint, . Hip joint, Ankle joint, Wrist joint, Cases treated. . 36 . 13 6 Cases cured. 15 4 1 3 5