51 WOUND-TREATMENT. after they are boiled, the surgeon needs two sterilized dishes for use dur- ing the operation. A compact apparatus for private practice has been described by Rotter. It is about three inches deep and a foot long, and contains three metal boxes with covers of various sizes, a folding stand, and an alcohol lamp. In using the apparatus care should be taken to make the soda solution with very hot water, so that it can be raised to the boiling-point in a very short time. It is safer to allow the alcohol to burn away, rather than attempt extinguishing it with the cover, and with a little experience it is easy to estimate the amount of alcohol necessary to keep the solution at the boiling-point for five or ten minutes. Other apparatuses have been devised of late for the simultaneous sterilization of instruments and dressings, but separate sterilization is preferable. For hospital-work, the large, non-portable sterilizers, which are heated by gas, answer a better purpose, as they can be kept heated and thus insure rapid sterilization of instruments between operations. With few modifications the idea of Schimmelbusch’s apparatus has been retained in their construction. This apparatus consists of a metal box (c) into which the soda solution is poured, one inch deep. Into this box, which is closed by a lid, perforated trays (e) can be placed, which hold the instruments to be sterilized. They are introduced into the apparatus as soon as the water begins to boil, and are allowed to remain for five minutes. They are then removed from the box by the wooden handles at each side, and are placed in a pan (/), which is filled with cool sterilized soda solution. The pan has also been previ- ously sterilized in the apparatus. The lid of the box fits into a groove (a) whch is filled with water, and thus closes hermetically. This prevents evaporation during ebullition, and raises the temperature of the solution to 104° C. Sponges and Mops.—Much difference of opinion seems to prevail in regard to the difficulty of rendering sponges aseptic. Some sur- geons, notably Kurnmel, have considered this a very easy task. Kum- mel says that when sponges have been thoroughly washed with warm water and soap for three or four minutes and are then placed in either a 5-per-cent. carbolic-acid solution, in chlorine water, or in a 1-1000 sublimate solution for one or two minutes, they will be disinfected with absolute certainty. But, in view of other testimony, this can no longer be accepted as true. The quality of a sponge has, doubtless, much to do with the ease with which it can be rendered aseptic. If in the process of preparation thesarcode, or gelatinous material, which covers the sponge and has fully penetrated its framework, is entirely removed, the antiseptics can more readily come in contact with all parts of the latter. In this respect it has been demonstrated that a dense-textured sponge is more difficult to sterilize than one with a wide meshwork. The latter are cheaper, but have the disadvantage that loose pieces are frequently attached to their surface, a defect which becomes more noticeable with continued use. It is advisable, therefore, to use an open-textured, cheap sponge, but to use it only once. Neuber uses sponges in this way, but also includes them in the dressings of the case in which they have been employed. It is regrettable that sponges are so unfavorably influenced by heat. It is true that dry