INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 390 around them in order to be able to make traction. It is now easy, by a little manipulation with the handle of a scalpel, to trace them up to the foramen ovale, which can even be seen if the external pterygoid muscle be held well out of the way. The nerves can then be divided close to the skull, either by scissors or knife, and the meningeal artery should be in no danger if the nerves have been sufficiently isolated. Peripheral traction is also employed so as to draw up as much of the nerve as possible, and thus a considerable portion, more than an inch, of the trunks can be readily removed. Removal of the Gasserian Ganglion and Intracranial Neurec- tomy.—The fact that after the previous operation the pain almost in- variably returns, has led surgeons to devise more radical measures for relief, and Mr. Rose and Professor Andrews have resorted to the re- moval of the Gasserian ganglion. Mr. Rose's operation is as follows:— An incision is made from near the external angular process of the frontal bone, along the zygoma, then in front of the ear to the angle of the inferior maxilla, and along the lower border of the mandible to the anterior edge of the masseter; this flap is then dissected up without injuring Stenson’s duct or the branches of the seventh nerve. The periosteum and temporal fascia are detached from the zygoma, and this is divided at both ends with a saw; previous to divid- ing the bone, it is drilled for the purpose of inserting wire and holding it in place. The zygoma and the attached masseter muscle are then turned downward, after dividing the fibres of the masseter which arise from the malar bone; the coronoid process of the lower jaw is next divided, and, with the temporal muscle, is raised up. After going through some fat and areolar tissue, the external pterygoid muscle will be exposed; now the internal maxillary artery can be seen and divided between a double ligature. The lower aspect of the great wing of the sphenoid and the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate are then cleared by separat- ing from them the external pterygoid muscle, and the foramen ovale is sought for; this lies a little posterior and external to the base of the external pterygoid plate; the lingual and inferior dental nerves may, of course, aid the surgeon in locating the foramen if they have not been divided by a previous operation. A long-handled trephine with a blunt-pointed centre-pin, which projects in the foramen ovale, is then applied and a disc of bone removed; in his last operation Mr. Rose removed the disc of bone from the great wing of the sphenoid in ad- vance of and outside of the foramen; the trephine opening, which is % inch in diameter, may then be enlarged if need be; the proximity of the carotid canal and Eustachian tube should be remembered. The third division of the trifacial is now traced up to the ganglion, the latter loosened from its bed, and its connection with the brain divided with a hook, sharp upon its concave edge. The opening in the base of the skull is enlarged and the superior maxillary nerve severed in advance of the ganglion; after this the ganglion is scraped or curetted out. The wound is next irrigated and the parts brought into apposition; the coronoid process may be wired to the maxilla, or removed; the zygoma is wired and the external wound sutured. Mr. Rose’s results in this operation have been very encouraging, five patients having remained free from pain after the operation; a sixth, however, died as the result of the treatment. There is great danger of destruction of the eyeball, probably as the result of trophic disturbances; in fact, this accident has occurred in one or two cases. Andrews, of Chicago, has also removed the ganglion, operating prac- tically in the same way. The incision was in the shape of a letter “H,”tlie vertical limbs being over the ends of the zygoma, and the transverse one along the arch. The trephine opening was f inch in diameter and was made just outside the oval foramen; a specially con-