963 URINARY FEVER—PATHOGENESIS AND TREATMENT. pyelo-nepliritis, etc., with pure cultures of this bacterium. It has been found in the blood, and in other organs than those of the genito-urinary system, but it seems especially active in the latter. From their obser- vations and experiments, they conclude that this bacterium is pyogeni- cally an infective organism; that it is always (frequently the only micro-organism) present in purulent urine; and that it produces suppu- rative inflammation of the genito-urinary tract. It has also caused diverse renal lesions, and when present in the blood produces rigors, general infection, etc. A number of investigators, including Achard and Renault,1 Rodet,2 Krogius,3 and Reblaud,4 have detected the presence of a bacillus in the urine capable of producing general infection, and have found that the Bacterium pyogenes of Albarran and Halle is identical with the Bacillus coli communis. Achard and Renault have conducted a series of experiments establish- ing this identity, and remark that it is but just to recognize that at the time when the Bacterium pyogenes was studied, the Bacillus coli com- munis was scarcely considered as a microbe possessed with virulent properties. Rodet reports with Professor Renault a striking case, the previous history of which included a light attack of gonorrhoea and an attack of epidemic influenza. Pus was present in the urine in considerable quan- tities, and upon examination it was found to come from the kidney. Lumbar nephrectomy was done, and the kidney removed was found to be riddled with large abscesses, and to contain three large calculi. Three animals were inoculated with fragments of the renal substance, two guinea-pigs subcutaneously, and one rabbit by intravenous injec- tion. The animals died, and cultures from the organs and fluids iso- lated the Bacillus coli communis, which Rodet believes to be the bacterium described by Albarran and Halle under the name of Bacte- rium pyogenes. Reblaud, studying in the service of Professor Guyon the pathogeny of cystitis in women and of urinary infection in general, was struck from the beginning by the analogy between the micro-organism met with in infected urine, and studied by Clado, Albarran and Halle, and the Bacillus coli communis, now known to be so baneful. Results corroborating those just given have been reported by other observers, and the evidence that infective micro-organisms may be con- veyed by the urine, to a wound or abrasion of the surface of some por- tion of the urinary tract, must be accepted as positive. It would thus appear that, finding a medium suitable for their propagation and the development of their virulence in the wounded tissue, these micro- organisms, or their products, are capable of causing systemic infection, or urinary fever, which, as we have seen, does not occur when contact of the urine with the wounded surface is precluded by drainage. While the evidence furnished by bacteriological and chemical inves- tigations affords strong support to the theory of the septic nature of urinary fever, it may he questioned whether the occurrence of the 1 Comptes Rendusde la Soc. de Biologie, Paris, tome iii.. 9e serie, Seance du 12 Dec., 1891. __ 2 Ibid., Seance du 19 Dec., 1891. 3 Arch, de Med. Experiment., le serie, tomeiv., 1892, p. 66. 4 Comptes Rendus de la Soc. de Biologie, Seance du 19 Dec., 1891.