no GUNSHOT WOUNDS. As far as can be determined from consideration of the reports'of the comparatively few cases that have been observed in the late conflicts in Chili, Venezuela, Cochin China, and South Africa, and from ex- periments made upon the cadaver, it would certainly seem that the prognosis in wounds made by the newly adopted bullet is decidedly more favorable than it was in injuries of like parts as formerly met with. Wound Complications and Aseptic and Antiseptic Wound Treatment. But a few years ago septic infection was the only wound complica- tion recognized as due to the action of a definite and determined micro- organism; now it is known that the same is true of erysipelas and tetanus. It is these complicating diseases that have been the bane of military surgery, and that have caused death in the great majority of fatal cases after gunshot injuries and operations, where it has not been consequent upon shock or early hemorrhage. The discovery of their mycotic origin, and the development of a method of dressing which more or less perfectly prevents or antagonizes the action of morbific germs, has greatly affected the treatment of gunshot wounds in civil life, and must do so, as far as it may be practicable to carry it out, in military service. Removal of the Ball, etc.—Whenever the location of a lodged bullet can be readily determined, either by probing of the wound or palpation of the damaged part, the missile should be removed, pro- vided that this can be safely done; but under other circumstances the ball should be left undisturbed, to become encapsulated or to make its way after a time to a place where it can be felt and extracted. One of the good things about the new bullet is that commonly it will not lodge, and will not therefore have to be regai’ded in the treatment of the wound which it causes. Protected by proper treatment against infection, earty closure of the wound will usually take place, and this whether the lesion has been a penetrating or a perforating one. The danger of death from shock remains as heretofore, but that from hemorrhage, other than primary and excessive bleeding, is greatly less, since operations for the exposure and securing of the wounded vessels can be done with comparatively little risk. A gunshot wound in civil life to-day, unless from its very nature a mortal one, may be expected to be recovered from, if from first to last it is protected from infection from without; and the advances in aseptic and antiseptic treatment that have been made in these latter years have rendered it usually practicable to do this. Knowing as we now do that in the great majority of cases any complicating erysipelas, septicaemia, pyaemia, or tetanus is consequent upon organisms that have been introduced into the wound after and not at the time of the receipt of the injury, it is imperative for the surgeon to employ only surgically clean instruments—probe, finger, forceps—and to permit only sterilized dressings to come in contact with the wounded area. Far better is it that the extent of the injury and the position of the ball should remain