969 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. negro, aged thirty, who complained of pain and swelling of the penis. The foreskin was very long and from it flowed a purulent secretion. This condition had existed for several months. On operation two large concavo-convex calculi were found. There were also several ulcers of the parts. Nelson’s case of thirty-eight calculi, and Brodie’s of sixty calculi are also referred to. The treatment of these cases is circumcision with subsequent attention to cleanliness. Balano-Posthitis.—Balanitis, or inflammation of the glans penis, can exist alone, but is usually associated with inflammation of the pre- puce likewise, whence the compound term balano-postliitis is used. Treatment.—When simple and noil-venereal in character, particularly in children with a tendency to phimosis, in whom the urine is prone to set up inflammation of the part, daily retraction of the prepuce and washing, followed by an application of boric-acid ointment, are all that will be found necessary. In the more marked cases, arising from various causes, in adults, if the glans can be uncovered, after cleansing, a powder of equal portions of boric acid, calomel, and bismuth subnitrate may be dusted on; the effort being made to keep the parts as dry as possible. If the affection is more severe, a layer of cotton dusted with the powder may be applied and the foreskin drawn over it. Lotio nigra (calomel 3 ij., lime water Oi.) I have found to be a most excellent remedy; after cleansing, the glans is covered by winding absorbent cotton around it, and the black wash is dropped on until it is well soaked, when the prepuce is brought forward. This dressing may be changed several times daily. If phimosis prevents retraction of the prepuce, and it is thought undesirable to slit it up, then the parts should be cleansed as well as possible by means of a syringe, the nozzle being introduced be- tween the glans and the foreskin. After this has been accomplished, pledgets of absorbent cotton well soaked in the black wash should be tucked in between the glans and its covering. Under this treatment it is oftentimes surprising to see how soon the acute symptoms will subside. Astringent solutions of lead and zinc are also of service. If the glans can be exposed, any ulcerated spots pres- ent may be touched with a solution of nitrate of silver, thirty grains to the ounce. When cotton is used as a dressing in these cases, it should be removed and replaced with a clean piece at least twice daily, and in bad cases still more often, as otherwise it becomes soaked with the discharges and continues a source of irritation. Mr. Jacobson 1 describes a form of balano-posthitis occurring in gouty subjects; it is apt to be dryer and more obstinate in character than that ordinarily seen. He advises the use of citrine or tar ointments, or the oleates of lead and zinc, or lotions of bicarbonate of sodium in addition to the general treatment proper to a gouty condition. A per- sistent balano-posthitis in a person of advanced years should be treated by circumcision, as it is known that continued irritation in suitable sub- jects is liable to be followed by the development of malignant disease. Herpes Progenitalis.—This is not the only form of herpes that affects the genital organs. They are sometimes involved in an attack 1 Diseases of the Male Organs of Generation, p. 655.