DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. 523 worn in connection with the Thomas knee-splint which has been de- scribed. In speaking of diseases of the knee-joint it was shown that this Thomas knee-splint furnished fixation to the knee, and prevented the child from hearing weight upon the foot in walking. The combination of fixation and protection enables the ankle to be absolutely protected against traumatism, and, except for the unfortunate dependent position of the ankle, it is placed as favorably as possible for recovery. Instead of the plaster-of-Paris fixation bandage, a more comfortable and fully as satisfactory an apparatus is obtained in a small, light fixation shoe, which is practically a skeleton bandage furnishing fixation to the foot by leather lacings. The apparatus consists of a light steel sole-plate fitting the sole of the foot, and two uprights connected with it fitted to the leg, and running to the upper part of the calf, where they are connected posteriorly by a flat curved band. The foot and the leg pieces are furnished with leather lacings, which afford as complete fixation as does a plaster bandage, and the apparatus is cooler and may readily be removed. It also is worn in connection with the Thomas knee-splint. The patients are allowed to go about freely until some months after the swelling and tenderness, and the muscular irrita- bility, have disappeared. Then the use of the splint is gradually discon- tinued. Dr. Gibney has made some investigations as to the results in cases of ankle-joint disease treated conservatively.1 Observations were made upon thirty cases, the average duration of which was three years and three months, with a minimum duration of one year and a maximum of six years. In nineteen cases suppuration was very ex- tensive, while in only five cases of the whole number was it entirely absent, this showing that a severe class of cases was under considera- tion. When these cases were investigated the limbs were slightly shortened, and the calf was atrophied. Twenty of the patients did not limp at all, and seven only slightly. The remarkable results ob- tained from this series of cases show that tubercular disease of the ankle belongs to a more benignant class of affections than similar disease of the knee or hip joints; in fact, the results from proper conservative treatment are generally extremely satisfactory, and operative measures are not indicated until mechanical treatment has manifestly failed. If the conservative method fails to give a satisfactory result after a proper trial has been made, three measures remain for consideration. The simplest is curetting the sinuses or removing whatever diseased bone is within reach of the curette. The second operation is a formal ex- cision of the diseased bones, and the third is amputation of the foot or leg, which is occasionally necessary. With regard to curetting the diseased bone without the performance of a formal excision, the complex nature of the ankle-joint, already alluded to, makes adequate removal of the diseased tissue Very difficult. The work is done in the dark, without a knowledge of the situation or extent of the disease, and must necessarily be done blindly, often leaving large masses of unhealthy tissue behind. In certain cases this plan of treatment may' affect the disease favorably, but in the’ majority re- lapse occurs and requires a more formal and extensive operation. 1 Med. Record, Aug. 21, 1880, p. 197.