100 DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. Treatment.—The treatment of septicaemia is naturally local, as well as general; the former consists essentially in an adequate surgical treat- ment of the existing wound. Like any other wound-complication, sep- ticaemia will be avoided with certainty by a thorough and careful anti- sepsis and asepsis. But also wounds complicated by infection of a malign character usually heal without much difficulty if only the infec- tion is at once recognized as such, and correspondingly treated. This is clearly shown by the prompt healing of the manifold wounds of sur- geons, anatomists, etc., which are infected sometimes by pus or putrid substances of the most malignant description. The special treatment of these wounds follows so closely the generally acknowledged rules of surgery, that it is hardly necessary to mention them in detail. It may suffice to say that immediate enlargement of the wound, unless super- ficial, by an incision; thorough washing with bichloride solution, 1 to 1000, or five-per-cent, carbolic-acid solution, or ten-per-cent, chloride of zinc; and the use of a bandage wet with a two-per-cent, carbolic-acid solution, usually do the work promptly. I may lay special stress upon the moist dressing, which, frequent as was its use formerly, seems to have been too much abandoned lately by the general practitioner. We need not be surprised to see retention take place, when infected wounds are powdered thickly with iodoform, and covered with cotton, laid im- mediately upon it. The moist dressing mentioned above, kept from drying either by rubber tissue or, as some prefer, by wetting it at certain intervals, not only apparently counteracts the infection by satu- rating the tissues with antiseptic fluid, but also has the great advantage of reducing pain in a marked degree. This latter symptom must be watched very carefully, as it is really of the highest importance. If pain disappears under the treatment, we may be sure that we have overcome the infection, while the persistence of pain demands further attention. The treatment of septic phlegmons and gangrene follows closely the generally acknowledged rules of surgery. Often enough, we have to try to save the patient’s life by high amputation, or by exarticulation, the latter being sometimes preferred, because a shorter operation than the former, and because it is well to expose septic patients to as little shock as possible. Of course, a secondary amputation may then be post- poned until the patient has somewhat recovered. Shock must be avoided as much as possible with all septic patients, since they bear it very badly, and are extremely sensitive to it. Very often, therefore, a short admin- istration of chloroform or bromethyl—it takes very little to anaesthetize them—must be resorted to during a change of dressing, if it is expected to be very painful. The lowering of vitality by the anaesthesia is usually less detrimental than the depression produced by pain. Apathy and analgesia are, according to my experience, among the worst prog- nostic symptoms. It is very difficult to decide upon the proper time for amputation. Free incisions and efficient drainage will be sufficient in a great many cases, while in others only early and high amputation will save the patient’s life. This question cannot be decided by the local prognosis alone, but the general condition of the patient must also be taken into consideration. Besides the local treatment, which is surely the most important part for the surgeon, we have no means of treating septicaemia as such, and are, therefore, restricted to treating the symptoms separately. As the