TREATMENT OF MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE BREAST. 845 the first rib, to which point the dissection can be safely and intelligently carried. Having separated the mass high up in the axilla, along the pectoral border and along the axillary vein, the dissection should pro- ceed downward and backward until the outer border of the latissimus dorsi has been reached, when the whole axillary contents will have been completely separated. In the downward progress the fascia should be removed from the serratus magnus muscle. The intercosto-liumeral nerve is generally sacrificed. The subscapular nerves and the external respiratory should not be disturbed unless they are hopelessly entangled in the disease. If the extent of the disease demands more thorough extirpation, the pectoralis major should be entirely removed, except that portion aris- ing from the clavicle. The muscle should be divided close to its hu- meral and its thoracic attachments. The dissection of the axillary glands and fat can then be carried up to, or even beyond, the first rib. If necessary, the pectoralis minor may also be removed. Supra-clavic- ular glands, though regarded by many surgeons as an absolute contra- indication to the completed operation, may be removed after resection of the clavicle, or through an incision in the neck, but so extensive an operation, though justifiable, is not demanded except in extreme cases. Though perhaps unnecessary, these extensive dissections are an error on the safe side. Doubtless in the immediate future the completed operation will require a dissection not only of the axilla, but of the supra-clavicular triangle as well. Drainage may be dispensed with if the operation has been completely aseptic, and if the wound is perfectly dry. When the breast is ulcer- ated, inflamed, or otherwise septic, or when for any reason there is abundant oozing, dependent drainage should be established through the posterior flap. The only objection to drainage in suitable cases is the frequent distention of the flaps by an effusion of blood, which may take place even in perfectly dry wounds. Wounds distended by blood require more time for convalescence' and are more liable to become septic. The wound may be united by continuous or by interrupted sutures of silk or of silkworm gut. When the wound cannot be closed, immediate skin grafting may be practised, or spontaneous closure by granulations may be awaited. The whole operation should be strictly aseptic rather than antiseptic. Nothing should come in contact with the wound that is not sterile and innocuous. Antiseptics retard immediate agglutination of surfaces; they make drainage necessary, and not infrequently produce symptoms of constitutional absorption. The low mortality of the modern com- pleted operation is due to the strict observance of aseptic details. Treatment of Malignant Tumors of the Breast by Local Applications. Paget,1 after calling attention to the likeness existing between can- cers and innocent tumors on the one hand, and specific and micro-para- sitic diseases on the other, expresses a belief that we shall eventually find 1 Lancet, November 19, 1888.