528 EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. is usually resorted to, and considering the excessive pain and discom- fort which they cause, the operation must be considered a justifiable one, even for the temporary relief afforded. Table of Nine Cases of Excision of the Upper Maxilla. No. Sex, age, and date. Nature of affection for which operation was required. Result. Remarks. i Male, 16 Naso-pharyngeal tumor Died Episcopal Hospital; Death from shock. Jaw excised as preliminary to removal of growth. 2 Male, 25, 1879 Osteoma of upper jaw do. University Hospital. Death from secondary hemor- rhage. 3 Female, 50, 1879 Sarcoma of upper jaw Recovered University Hospital. 4 Female, 71, 1880 Carcinoma of upper jaw do. do. 5 Male, 8, 1886 Sarcoma of upper jaw do. do. 6 Male, adult, 1887 do. do. Do. Recurrence in 2 months. 7 Female, 50, 1887 do. Died Do. Death from renal dis- ease on 12th day. 8 Male, 63, 1889 do. Recovered Do. Recurrence in 3 months. 9 Male, 65, 1892 do. do. Do. Recurrence in 2 months. Lower Jaw.—In addition to the cases referred to in Vol. III., I have since successfully excised the middle portion of the lower jaw with a part of the tongue, for epithelioma, and I have twice removed wedge-shaped portions of the bone for contraction of the jaw, according to Esmarch's method. Both cases afforded good results, but in the first the patient suffered much after the operation from pain in the course of the inferior dental nerve, apparently from irritation caused by the saw with which the bone was resected; hence in the second case I took the precaution to expose the nerve first with a trephine and ex- cise a portion, and I would recommend this as a useful modification of the ordinary procedure. Sternum.—Linoli's case of excision of a displaced ensiform cartilage after laparotomy for uncontrollable vomiting, is mentioned in Vol. III., and the operation has since been repeated by Rinonapoli. Annandale relieved the vomiting in a similar case by replacing without excising the bone, after abdominal section. I have successfully excised the en- siform cartilage without opening the peritoneum in a case of intracta- ble neuralgia, for which, from its analogies with the similar condition met with in the coccyx, I would suggest, when the pain is localized in this part, the name xipliodynia; the external surface of the peritoneum is necessarily exposed in this operation, but by keeping the knife close to the bone, and exercising great care, it is possible to avoid wounding the serous membrane. Graves has successfully excised the gladiolus for sarcoma. Ribs.-—I have in four cases had occasion to employ excision of one or more ribs—in one case for syphilitic necrosis involving but a single rib, and in three cases for empyema (Estlander’s operation), in one instance removing portions of three, and, in the other two, portions of four ribs.