POISONED WOUNDS. 124 Quinine and whiskey were given with success by Vinke 1 to a boy aged 13, bitten by a rattlesnake. Carpenter,2 in two cases of copper- bead-bite, applied iodine externally, and gave compound tincture of iodine internally, with success. Karlinski3 records observations and experiments with the poison of vipers, and advocates a 1-per-cent, so- lution of chromic acid as an antidote. Kaufmann, of Paris, also recom- mends this. A remedy called Tiriyaq, stated by a clergyman named Lorbeer to be an antidote for krait-venom and cobra-venom, has been reported upon as worthless by Richards and Simpson.4 * Preventive Inoculation. — Waddell,6 reporting some experiments con- firming the belief that snake-venom is not auto-toxic, suggests that this may be in favor of preventive inoculation. Sewall6 says that from his experiments it appears that “repeated inoculation of pigeons with sub- lethal doses of rattlesnake venom produces a continually increasing re- sistance toward the injurious effects of the poison, without apparent influence on the health of the animals.” Jacolot7 states that at Tux- pan, on the Gulf of Mexico, inoculation has long been practised; the patient eats the bulb of a certain native plant, and is then inoculated with the venom-fang of one of the most poisonous snakes. It would seem as if the immediate risk and inconvenience of inocula- tion were too great to be counterbalanced by a mere chance of immu- nity from a remote danger, which might never actually occur. Bites op Other Animals. Rat-Bites. —Two cases have been reported of very grave poisoning from rat-bites; one in a boy aged 11,8 the other in a man aged 25.“ In both there were symptoms of septicaemia; in the man, the local cel- lulitis was so severe as to cause gangrene. Human Bites.—Of these injuries two cases have been reported, one by Whiting 10 and the other by J. S. Carpenter.11 In each there was severe cellulitis of the affected part—a finger—and amputation was ultimately performed. Carpenter’s patient had decided septicaemia, which for a time threatened his life. Morrow 12 relates the case of a man who was severely bitten on the fin- ger by another man far advanced in leprosy; seven years afterward the disease was developed in the injured part, and became constitutional. The patient firmly believed it to have been communicated by the bite; but it seems to me that this must be a matter of doubt. 1 St. Louis Courier of Medicine, Dec., 1883. 2 Med. News, April 21, 1883. 8 Fortschr. der Medicin, 15 Aug., 1890. 4 Indian Med. Gazette, Aug., 1889. 6 Lancet, June 15, 1889. t; Journal of Physiology, vol. viii., 1887. 1 Quoted in Med. Record, Dec. 5, 1891. from Arch, de Med. Navale. 8 Cook, Indiana Med. Journal, Oct., 1885. '-'Thompson, Med. News, May 31, 1884. 10 Peoria Med. Monthly, May, 1885. 11 Med. Record, May 2, 1885. 12 A System of Genito-Urinary Diseases, Syphilology anil Dermatology, vol. iii., Art. Leprosy, p. 593.