827 PARACENTESIS PERICARDII. curacy with which fluid collections within the pericardium can now he mapped out upon the external surface of the chest, make it a much easier and more precise operation than when it was performed by Larrey. The older writers who have referred to the operation have contented themselves with either advocating or opposing it on purely theoretical grounds. Opening the pericardial sac may he required for the removal of fluid collections, either of a serous or purulent nature, and usually dependent upon prolonged attacks of illness, generally of a rheumatic origin, or occurring in the later stages of general dropsy. It is worthy of note that of 79 cases of purulent pericarditis reported by West, but one proved fatal as the result of the operation, the trocar in this instance having entered the right ventricle. The immediate result of the opera- tion in nearly every case was good, even if but a small quantity of fluid was removed, the mechanical interference with the heart’s action being obviated by the relief from pressure. Death, when it followed, ap- peared to be entirely the result of the original disease, rather than of the operation or of consequent pericarditis. Mode of Operation.—If it can be determined with any degree of ac- curacy that the effusion is of a serous character, and not purulent, its removal by means of the aspirator, observing strict antiseptic precau- tions, will usually prove the safest and easiest mode of treatment, as the puncture is small, and the entrance of air is readily prevented. If, however, the pericardial fluid is purulent, it is best dealt with as if the case were one of empyema, by free incision down to the sac, which should be lifted with forceps, incised with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and dilated with a pair of sinus forceps, allowing the free escape of the fluid. The quantity removed may be very great, and in Dr. West’s successful case as much as two quarts were removed with- out any bad symptoms, or even faintness, but, on the contrary, with immediate relief. The fluid contents of the pericardium might also be evacuated by means of a trocar and canula, and this would probably be a perfectly satisfactory method of treatment, if the question of drain- age with a soft-rubber tube and the washing out of the sac with some mild antiseptic solution, such as Thiersch’s fluid, were not to be con- sidered. Upon this largely depends the success of the operation. Trephining of the sternum has been suggested on theoretical grounds as a preliminary to tapping the pericardium, but this procedure is to be deprecated, as it exposes a very vascular bone to the risk of. septic absorption and necrosis. The Place of Puncture.—The point to be selected is usually in the fifth intercostal interspace, about an inch to the left of the sternum, in order to avoid wounding the internal mammary artery which lies about one-half to three-fourths of an inch to its outer border. When the pleura is obliterated and adherent to the pericardium, the operation be- comes much simpler, as a spot can be safely selected near the nipple line without danger of opening the pleural sac. The results of the operation should be more favorable than those of empyema, as the walls of the cavity are better adapted to follow and contract on the receding fluid, and thus permit of complete obliteration. The after- treatment of these cases does not differ from the mode of dealing with purulent collections elsewhere.