1025 SANGER’S method of flap-splitting perineorrhaphy. Fig. 1775. Appearance of Wound after Incision. or a U shape, though the typical one is that first described (Fig. 1775). It is important to cut directly in the median line so as not to enter the vagina or rectum, espe- cially as the entire inci- sion requires but a half- minute’s time for its completion. The slight venous hemorrhage, only occasionally present, is controlled by carefully sterilized silk of finest size. The edge of the flap just formed is grasped at its middle or apex by an artery forceps and held upwards, out of the op- erator’s way, by an assis- tant, as shown in Fig. 1776. The wound surfaces are next to be adjusted, and the success of San- ger’s modified plan de- pends greatly on the method of introduction of sutures for this purpose. Contrary to Lawson Tait, Sanger first unites the vaginal flap by four, five, or six silk sutures, passed from right to left, and tied externally, or on the mucous membrane (Fig. 1777). In this way the operator avoids forming a superfluous “spur,” and also entirely prevents necrosis of the flaps, two strong objections to previous methods of flap-splitting peri- neorrhaphy. (Fig. 1778.) To repair the perineum, a Peaslee needle of well-tempered steel, or an ordinary half- circular needle and needle-holder, may be employed. This is entered through the skin, just beyond (1 mm.) the margin of the wound, from the surgeon’s right side; is passed beneath the entire cut surface, and emerges at a similar point, exactly opposite, on the left side of the flap. The fingers of the left hand, placed within the rectum, aid this manoeuvre by pressing forward the recto-vaginal septum. Silver wire, unpolished and of medium size, is now inserted into the eye of the needle, and the latter, so armed, is withdrawn. About five of these sutures will suffice, and their order of insertion is immaterial, except that one must be so placed as to lie exactly beneath the median line—the deepest point of the wound—so as to avoid any “dead room.” Then, by simply twisting the wires by hand, the wound is closed. vol. vii.—65 Fig. 1776. Vaginal Flap Raised by Forceps Ready for Suturing.