611 TUMORS OF THE BRAIN. ■they will be smaller and the complications fewer, and the mortality will with time greatly diminish. The chief mortality lies in the cases in which no tumor is found, and in the irremovable cases. The reason for the fatality in these last two conditions, I believe, has been probably a too extensive exploration in search of the tumor or in an attempt to remove it. If therefore no tumor is found after a cautious search by the knife, the grooved di- rector, and the gentle use of the little finger; or if, having been found, it is so large or deep that it is not removable, the operation should be terminated at once. In this connection there is one indication which I believe to be of very great value, as indicative of the size of the tumor, viz., the amount of bulging. Sufficient attention has not, I think, been directed to this sign, especially as an indication to desist from further operative proce- dure. In one case 1 in which I recently operated the dura was so tense and resilient that I was certain that there was a very large tumor under it. Accordingly, instead of opening the dura widely, which would have allowed immense bulging and would have prevented the suturing of the membrane except after destruction of a very large amount of brain sub- stance, I made an incision only an inch long. Through this I explored repeatedly in different directions, and, finding no tumor, closed the small opening. The pressure was such that even through this small opening a considerable amount of brain tissue protruded, and had to be removed in order to allow suturing. The patient recovered, was freed from his headache, and lived several months after the opera- tion, in much greater comfort than before. Had I opened the dura widely I am sure that the patient would have died from the exten- sive traumatism which I should have been compelled to inflict upon the brain substance in order to close the wound, or from the subsequent fungus cerebri. For a more favorable prognosis, it is of the utmost importance that the body of the profession, especially physicians, who almost uniformly are the first to see these cases, should recognize the symptoms of brain tumor, and the importance of calling in the surgeon at as early a date as possible. After the tumor has been diagnosticated and located, no period is too early for its removal. We should treat tumors of the brain precisely as we do those of the breast or any other part of the body. In fact, in the brain early operation is more imperative, since its soft tissues are more easily injured, they cannot escape from pressure as do other soft tissues not enclosed in a bony case, and the tumor grows insidiously, since its increase in size can only be estimated by the symp- toms, and not, as in other tumors, by touch and sight. If therefore a brain tumor has been diagnosticated and located, and after three months, or often less, has not yielded to the iodide treatment carried to its limit, it is wasting time and imperilling life to wait further. Tumors of the cerebellum are peculiarly dangerous. Starr has tab- ulated 16 cases which have been operated on; in 9 of these no tumor was found; in 2 a tumor was found but could not be removed. In 5 cases a tumor was removed, and of these five, three recovered. The reason for the fatality is obvious. Such tumors are close to the fourth ventricle, the tubercula quadrigemina, and the pons, in which 1 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, Jan., 1894.