774 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. confluent. The increase in size is not altogether dependent on fusion,, the cyst wall itself yielding a copious serous transudation. After evacu- ation of a cyst by puncture it may refill within a few hours or days, and in this way the rapid growth of some goitres is explained. In the cystic goitre here described the contents, if unchanged, are aqueous, clear, highly albuminous, and slightly yellowish or greenish in color, much resembling the fluid of a hydrocele. Large and thin-walled cystic goitres are therefore translucent if the cysts are superficial and their contents unchanged. Gelatinous and cystic goitres are usu- ally large, and often are pendulous masses extending to the root of the neck, or over the sternum, to the line of the nipple or as low as the abdo- men. According to the number of cysts, the tumor presents a smooth or lobulated surface. The varieties of goitre described are those ordinarily encountered, and in small tumors they exist separately. In those of many years’ standing, however, there is often an admixture of the various secondary changes, giving to the mass, on section, a great diversity in appear- ance. While one form may and usually does predominate, the others are represented. Surrounding the glandular or fibrous nodules, and the cysts of various form, is a layer of connective tissue called the capsule of the goitre. This is separate and distinct from the capsule proper of the gland, with which in superficial nodules it may become partly fused. On the outer surface of the capsule there is often, even in comparatively superficial nodules, an atrophied layer of gland tissue. As the capsule grows in thickness it becomes poor in blood-vessels. In very rare instances it is so extensively infiltrated with salts as to resemble osseous tissue. Ac- cording to Virchow 1 true bone is never found in the goitrous capsule. In justice to the extensive researches on the pathology of goitre made by Wolffler, and above alluded to, I append the varieties of goitre as given by him in his most recent publication.2 (a) Hypertrophy of the thyroid gland, present at birth and develop- ing at puberty or during pregnane}7, uniformly enlarging the entire gland. It is smooth on the surface. There are no nodules within. The normal contour of the gland is retained. Tumor is soft, and if very vascular, compressible. (b) Vascular goitre, purely a clinical name, depending on the num- ber of the vessels and in no relation to the glandular element. This goitre can often be emptied like a sponge. It pulsates visibly, vascular bruits are audible, and a thrill can often be felt. (c) Foetal Adenoma.—This is represented by a circumscribed tumor existing from birth or puberty. It is generally firm in consistence and movable, and often the tumors are multiple. (d) Adenoma gelatinosa, or colloid goitre, often develops late in life, and appears as a soft, nodular, more or less fluctuating tumor of very slow growth. Occasionally the colloid material increases fast. Thence the cystic goitre. Etiology.—The main data are given in Sir G. Macleod’s article. ' It should be added that the disease preponderates in women. Laycock found only 26 men affected in 551 cases, and Baillarger has tabulated 1 Krankh. Gesclnv.. Bd. iii., S. 41. ■ Arcli. f. klin. Cliir., Bd. xl., S. 171. Vol. Y., p. 204, supra.