927 RELAPSE. at any age; and that the old man now, whose stone is generally rather a symptom of prostatic obstruction than itself a true malady or source of disease, is often considered a more fit subject for suprapubic section than in former days, not because this operation is at all necessary to relieve him of his stone, but because his necessity is turned into the surgeon's opportunity, so that the prostate, the true cause of his suffer- ings, may be attacked by prostatectomy during the effort at removal of the stone. Relapse. Relapse after the crushing operation is less to be feared now than formerly; that is, such relapse as is due to leaving behind small frag- ments of stone in the bladder, because, by the aid of the cystoscope, we may now decline to discharge the patient as cured until one or more thorough searches after the presumptive last fragment have verified its actual absence. Before taking up the direct question of the management of the patient or his calculus, it may be well to interpolate here the rather radical utterances of Surgeon-Major Forbes Keith, of Hyderabad, Sindh.1 This gentleman formally proposes complete abandonment of the operation for removing calculi entire from the bladder. He re- marks: “In the course of the three years I have held this appointment” (that of civil surgeon and superintendent of the medical school), “I have operated seven hundred and thirty-nine times for stone. In the month of Ma}r last, I performed fifty operations for stone; thirty-seven lithotrities and thirteen by other methods to be subsequently described, all successfully notwithstanding that the thermometer stood at 101° in the operating theatre, and that the cases operated upon were indiscrim- inately undertaken as to age, sex, duration of disease, condition of health, or size of stone.” With such a statement what more can be said about statistics or about other methods than crushing, excepting that perhaps in India the patients are so tough that operations do not kill them. Dr. J. G. Wishard, connected with the missionary station in Teheran, Persia, recently informed me, while on a visit to this city, that there had been a certain surgeon in his district who had a very suc- cessful record as an operator in cases of stone in the bladder. This gen- tleman it appears died, and his wife, absolutely unacquainted with any medical or surgical subject, as far as known, finding herself deprived of support on the death of her husband, got together his instruments and commenced to operate for stone, and my informant vouches for the fact that up to the time of his departure she had operated about one hundred times with a success which was respectably good. Again Mr. Keith saysG “Since receiving my new instruments from home in February last, a period of ten months, I have had a series of one hun- dred operations without a death, and one hundred and fifty-seven with three deaths.” This is surely a very admirable record, and would seem to justify Mr. Keith in his endeavor to establish the supremacy of the crushing operation to the exclusion of all others. For a very large stone he proposes to slit the perineum and operate in a manner some- 1 Indian Medical Record, December 1, 1891. 2 Loc. cit.