ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 544 apparatus are articulated opposite both ankle and medio-tarsal joints, and are acted upon by elastic or by spring force. Other useful appliances are operated upon by screw or cog-wheel, or lever power.1 The object to be secured is the unfolding of the varus, the elongation of the contracted tissues, and the strengthening of the weakened muscles. The forms of apparatus are almost numberless. Time for Operation.—The preliminary course of manipulation and mechanical treatment already outlined, gives a mobile and flexible foot, and will, in many instances, secure a good result without operation. In stubborn cases, however, and in individuals where detail cannot re- ceive proper attention, tenotomies become necessary. The proper time for this procedure will vary with each individual case. In those which fail to improve, and when the position is so abnormal that retention of apparatus is impossible, early sections are helpful; but in the majority of cases delay is admissible in cases which are doing well until the child attempts to walk. If the cure of a case of equino-varus is not suffi- ciently advanced to permit the sole of the foot to be placed squarely upon the ground when the child begins to walk, the rule should be to delay operation no longer, since every step will rapidly deform the bones. Asepsis.—In every case the most rigid care should be given to pre- vent the entrance of suppurative germs. Scrupulous cleanliness of hands, instruments, and dressings is important. It is a difficult task to thoroughly cleanse and prepare an adult foot that is covered with callosities, and much time, patience, and hard scrubbing are essential. The preliminary use of a hot flaxseed poultice for several days is of service. (3) Multiple Tenotomies and Immediate Forcible Straightening with Subsequent Fixation in the Corrected Position.—Every contracted tis- sue should be divided, some cases requiring more cutting than others, but the tibialis anticus and posticus are nearly always at fault. The rules for their section are fully given in Mr. Fisher’s article. If the plantar fascia is resistant it should also be cut, and the varus forcibly corrected, reserving the section of the tendo Acliillis until the close of the opera- tion in order to retain its fulcrum power. The advice is often given to correct the varus at one operation, and to postpone the operation for equinus until a later date. When a surgeon lias free control of his patient, and time is of no consequence, such a course is sometimes of advantage; but in the majority of cases it is wiser to thoroughly correct the varus by forcible measures, and then, just at the end of the operation, to divide the tendo Acliillis, after which the relief of the equinus can be accomplished provided the astragalus is not too distorted to assume its relation between the malleoli. Immediately after complete and thorough rectification the foot is loosely encased in a plaster-of-Paris bandage, which puts the parts per- fectly at rest. It may remain two or three weeks without disturbance if thorough attention has been given to asepsis of the foot, instruments, and dressings. Metal splints or other apparatus are often used, but are not as comfortable as the gypsum, if it is evenly, lightly, and carefully applied. A walking apparatus of any desired form should subsequently be used, and the parents should be educated to manipulate and practise 1 Agnew s Surgery, 2d ed., vol. iii., p. 842.