549 BOW-LEGS. tenotomy is by passing an elastic ribbon or a tape through slots cut in an aluminium foot-plate, the dimensions of the slots being smaller than the ribbon. The latter is thus held in any desired position without knots. Stockings with toes are usually uncomfortable and expensive, and when the plate is used the tip of the hose should be removed. Hallux Valgus.—As a result of inflammation of the metatarso- phalangeal joint, pus is not infrequently formed, and the end of the metatarsal bone may become carious, necessitating amputation. The toe may sometimes be retained in position by a sole-plate with an elastic ribbon run through a slot, as recommended in hammer toe; or a pro- jecting arched sepL.m may be placed between the first and second toes. Osteotomy of the first metatarsal close to its anterior head permits the toe to be brought into good line, and often avoids the necessity for amputation. In suppurative cases, however, amputation is usually pref- erable, or excision of the metatarso-phalangeal joint may be substituted. Bow-Legs. Lateral Curvatures of the Legs.—These are usually remediable by apparatus and manipulation. Frequent and forcible manipulation is exceedingly important. Braces should be so constructed that pressure is made upon the apex of the curve, while counter-pressure is made at the inner malleolus and inner condyle. Manual, Forcible, Immediate Straightening.—In young patients, when parents will not, or cannot, attend to the proper application of apparatus, immediate straightening by fracture over a smooth, wooden, half-cylindrical fulcrum is occasionally advisable. Sometimes a green- stick fracture results; more frequently straightening is accomplished without actual rupture of the bone fibres. Betention of the straight position is maintained by plaster-of-Paris for six weeks, and it is wise to support the limbs by apparatus until the condition of the child is such that there is no longer danger of recurrence. The force must be applied suddenly, but judiciously, so that no injury to epiphyses will result. The compression is so momentary that slough- ing never follows. Osteoclasis.—Instrumental fracture by the osteoclast should only be employed when the bones are too strong for the manual power of the surgeon, and in America the operation is not so popular as osteotomy, since the exact point of fracture cannot be as readily secured, and the tissues are frequently so pulpefied that sloughing results; moreover, in the region of the joints the procedure is accompanied by considerable injury to the epiphyses. Osteotomy.—A bone section made with a clean, sharp osteotome, or Adams’s saw, through an aseptic wound which can be speedily closed, leaves for the surgeon only the treatment of simple fracture, and sup- puration should be one of the rarest of results, unless a wedge has been removed. Cuneiform osteotomy is now only occasionally em- ployed, since the wedged-shaped gap produced by the straightening of a bone after simple osteotomy readily fills with callus and a strong limb results.