RACHITIS. 152 bosses, deformity of the thorax, with depression of the ribs and pro- jecting or misshapen sternum, prominent abdomen, and Harrison’s groove distinctly marked. All these signs and symptoms must be con- sidered before making a diagnosis in incipient or mild rachitis. In order to determine the diagnostic value of enlargement of the costo- chondral articulations, “the rachitic rosary,” I have examined these joints in three of the New York institutions in children supposed to be healthy or suffering from other ailments than rachitis. In many young children believed to be healthy, these joints are not apprecia- ble on palpation. In others a slight prominence can be felt in one or more joints. In order that the beading of these articulations be sufficient to indicate rachitis, it should, I think, be plainly detected by the fingers in most of these joints. Less than this I should not regard as sufficient evidence of rickets. Age.—In a large majority of cases rachitis manifests itself before the age of three years, and if it be first diagnosticated at a later date, it will usually be found on inquiry that its symptoms have bad an earlier commencement. Glisson, Portal, and Tripier say that they have seen it commence in children who were well on towards puberty, and Sir William Jenner says that he has seen children of seven or eight years who were only beginning to suffer from rachitis. The fol- lowing are the aggregate statistics of Bruennische, Von Rittershain, and Ritsclie, relating to the age at which rickets occurs:— During the first half year, No. of Cases. . 99 “ “ second half of first year, . . 259 “ “ second year, . 342 “ “ third year, . 134 “ “ fourth year, . 31 “ “ fifth year, . 17 Between the fifth and ninth years, . 21 Aggregate, . 903 Treatment of Rachitis.—Hygienic Treatment.—The frequency of rachitis, especially in the cities, and the fact that inheritance is one of its recognized causes, and that manifestations of it appear early in life, render it very important that the parents during the procreative period should be, as far as possible, in a state of perfect health. The most common and potent cause of rachitis occurring after birth is some error in diet, or a disordered state of the digestive apparatus which usually results from improper feeding. As a preventive of rachitis the infant should if possible be wet-nursed until the age of twelve months. If this be impossible on account of ill health of the mother and consequent deficiency or poor quality of her breast-milk, and the parents be unable to provide a competent wet- nurse, food artificially prepared must of course be employed. During the age in which rachitis usually occurs, cow’s milk, properly prepared, should after the weaning be used as a substitute for human milk. Cow's milk contains five times as much casein as woman’s milk, and is slightly acid, whereas the latter is alkaline. Nevertheless, if properly prepared, cow’s milk is the most convenient and best substitute for woman’s milk. In the country, cow’s milk obtained fresh, and with