TREPHINING. IN HEMORRHAGE. 631 inflammation instead of being local is general. The fact is, however, that just as we incise the periosteum to give exit to serum or pus, as an iridectomy relieves increased intra-ocular pressure and saves the eye, or as in an orchitis an incision relieves the pain and saves the testicle; so in inflammation of the brain we have some slight experience to show that it is wise to trephine in order to drain off effused fluids before they have gone to the stage of suppuration and have inflicted irreparable damage on the brain. This mode of treatment would seem to be worthy of a fair trial, especially in that almost uniformly fatal disease, tuber- cular meningitis. If experience as it becomes larger is favorable, it will beget the hope that we may be able in the future to avert the dan- gers of cerebral inflammation far better than we have done in the past. Naturally those cases afford the greatest probabilities of cure in which there is evidence of localized rather than diffused, and especially of basilar, inflammation, and in which there is only a local production of serum or of pus. One remarkable case has been reported by Mr. Barker,1 in which it is probable that he evacuated an ounce of odorless pus from the fissure of Sylvius, with a successful result. Sawtelle2 records the case of a sailor who after a blow on the head developed severe head- ache and afterward fell into a stupor. When operated on no fracture was found, but the dura was thickened and opaque. The evacuation of five drachms of fluid was followed by complete recovery and cure. McArdle3 relates one case in which he saved life by trephining three weeks after injury, and another in which he might have done so. Tobin 1 also has reported a successful case after trephining and draining away a considerable amount of subdural fluid, and urges early operation, even in tubercular meningitis. Mr. Parkin 5 has recorded a case of what he terms “cortical drainage,” in the frontal region, for meningitis following a blow in which there were marked psychical disturbances and epilepsy. He evacuated about an ounce of clear fluid, and the boy was apparently entirely cured after seven months. Mr. Horsley has also urged this course of treatment, but as yet there is not experience enough to warrant us in saying more than that in a favorable case it would not be improper to operate. The point at which the trephining should be done should be determined, as in Mr. Barker’s notable case, by localizing symptoms if these exist. Whether in general encephalitis any good result can be obtained by operative interference, is as yet very doubtful. (See Surgery of the Ventricles, p. 639.) Trephining in Hemorrhage from Pachymeningitis Interna Hemor- rhagica. In a number of cases, especially of alcoholism, a considerable amount of blood accumulates under the dura from that form of meningitis known as pachymeningitis interna hcemorrhagica. The best collection of cases with which I am familiar is given by Dennis.6 Occasionally, as in the case of Ceci,7 the condition is owing to accident, but much 1 Brit. Med. Journal, 1888, vol. i., p. 777. 2 Occidental Med. Times, Feb., 1892, p. 76. 3 Dublin Journal Med. Sciences, 1892, vol. xciv., p. 17. 4 Brit. Med. Journal, 1892, vol. ii., p. 21. 5 Lancet, July 1, 1893, p. 21. 6 New York Med. Journal, Dec. 24, 1892, p. 701. 7 Yon Bergmann, Chir. Beliand. d. Hirnkrank., 2 Aufl., S. 179-180.