CELLULITIS. 343 general thing that which is really comfortable to the patient, and not merely pronounced so from the fear of interference, is good for him. Experience has taught the writer the advantage of blowing both hot and cold in such cases as do not require the use of the knife. He has very often seen marked advantage from the use of a counter-irri- tant. such as the tincture of iodine, followed immediately by a poultice or warm-water dressing, while he must also bear his testimony to the good effects secured by either the simple or the compound iodine oint- ment as an aid to resolution. The same is true of belladonna and mer- curial ointments, either alone or in combination in chronic cases. Where repeated attacks of cellulitis occur without any traumatic cause, some vice of constitution underlies it, and alkalies, colchicum, or mercury, may be needed according as rheumatism, gout, or syphilis is at the bottom of the trouble. Peri-Venous Cellulitis.—Of peri-venous cellulitis there is noth- ing to be added to what has already been so well said by Professor Howe. While the inflammation is primarily and chiefly outside the neigh- boring veins, it is somewhat difficult to say positively that there is not a true phlebitis also present, as shown by the presence of more or less adherent thrombi and by the softened condition of the walls of the veins. Yet the distinction as drawn by Dr. Howe should be borne in mind, and the treatment which he recommends in these cases should be carefully followed. In free stimulation lies the only hope of the patient, and should systemic poisoning ensue, either from breaking down of the clots contained in the veins, or from without by means of septic matter entering through their open channels, the issue will hardly differ from that to be expected in true septicaemia. Peri-Arthritic Cellulitis.—The interesting and important ques- tion in peri-arthritic cellulitis is to discriminate between disease within and without the joints. In the vigorous it is attended with little dan- ger to life, but in those possessing vitiated constitutions, either young or old, the drain upon the vital powers may easily exceed their ability to endure. Ordinarily, however, the fact that the suppuration lies out- side the joint will bring relief to the mind of the surgeon, who may therefore quite safely commit himself to a favorable prognosis, with the assurance that no permanent injury to limb or danger to life need be anticipated. To satisfy himself on this point, therefore, the surgeon will do well to spare no pains in seeking to arrive at a correct diag- nosis by carefully following out the rules clearly if succinctly laid down by Dr. Howe. Prompt opening of the abscess or abscesses, with good drainage, absolute rest for a time by the use of splints, and the use of a supporting diet, are the indications for treatment. Ischio-Rectal Cellulitis.—This is very common, and its impor- tance as a cause of fistula in ano is generally recognized. This comes not from peculiarities in the inflammation itself, nor from those of the areolar tissue in which it is situated. The trouble lies in the anat- omy of the region, in which the mouth of a tube, through which so often very irritating matters pass, is surrounded by a sphincter and other