TUMORS. 296 invades the lymphatics early, and causes death in a few months’ t'ime. It is easily distinguished from carcinoma of Coivper's glands, which is another unusual seat for the new growth, Pietrzikowsky, who reports a case in this locality, being able to find only two others of undoubted authenticity on record. In his own case, which occurred in a young man of only nineteen years, and which had been of fourteen weeks’ duration when seen, the inguinal lymphatic glands were already in- volved, and recurrence took place soon after operation. All three cases were marked by very little difficulty in the passage of urine, which is a typical symptom when the urethra is involved, but there was some obstruction to defecation occasioned by the rather large tumors lying between the perineum and the anus. The tumors also occasioned difficulty in walking. Lester has collected ten cases of “peri-urethral” carcinoma in the female, but most of these were simply instances of secondary disease spreading to that part by direct extension. Results of Treatment in Carcinoma. Summing up what has been detailed in the study of the disease in each organ, we may construct the following table: Organ. Operation. Mortality Per Cent. Breast 24 to 6 TTt„wtt„ j Vaginal hysterectomy 9.7 ) High cervical amputation r... 2 to 7 Rectum i Perineal 13 i rectum -j gacral 20 f i By mouth 12 j Tongue - Kocher’s method f 14 i ( Jaw resected or divided f ) Larynx 30 Lip Penis Cures Per Cent. Ordinary. Corrected. 22.5 22.5 26.4 44.8 32.4 34.8 23 21.31 10 6.61 5.8 24 to 68 43 47.5 39 These figures show that the best results are to be expected in the operative treatment of carcinoma of the skin, the uterus, and the penis. Next in order come the breast and the rectum, while the worst results are found in the tongue and the larynx. What is to be considered a cure in a case of cancer? We can scarcely talk of a cure as long as there is any danger of recurrence, and it is exceedingly difficult to set a time limit when that danger shall have been passed. The great majority of recurrences appear within the first six or at most twelve months after operation, but many come in the second year, and a few in the third. After that date recurrence is not common, and yet quite a number of cases are on record in which the disease has reappeared at even a later period. I do not include among cases of recurrence those in which the disease returns at some other point in the body, at a date too late to make it probable that there has been a metastasis from the original tumor—as in two cases of mammary carcinoma reported by Eders, in which the disease appeared in the remaining breasts four and seven years respec- 1 Four years’ limit.