INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PAS- ( 783 ) SAGES AND OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. BY W. C. GLASGOW, M.D., OF ST. LOUIS. (Edema of the Larynx. (Edema of the larynx occurs in the form of: Acute Inflammatory (Edema; Chronic Inflammatory (Edema; Simple Serous (Edema; Angeio-Neurotic (Edema; Solid, or Lymphoid (Edema. Acute Inflammatory (Edema.—This occurs as a result of an acute phlegmonous laryngitis, or, in a limited number of cases, of a catarrhal inflammation of the larynx. In these cases the oedema may be the most prominent feature and the essential factor in causing the gravity of the lesion. Pathology.—Inflammatory oedema of the larynx consists essentially in an infiltration of the submucous areolar tissue with a serous, a sero- purulent, or a sanguineous fluid. It is found chiefly in those parts of the larynx where the attachment of the mucous membrane to the deeper structures is loose, thus affording sufficient space for the fluid to accumulate. This condition is specially marked in the ary-epiglot- tidean fold, the ventricular bands, the laryngeal surface of the epiglot- tis, and the posterior surface of the larynx. The mucous membrane of the vocal cords is to a great extent closely attached to its underlying tissue, but toward its edge it is more loosely connected (Fournier), and this part may be the site of oedema. (Edema of the infraglottic region is not infrequent. When it occurs in connection with acute phlegmonous laryngitis it is associated with intense inflammation of the mucous membrane, and with hypersecre- tion of the muciparous glands. The mucous membrane becomes swol- len and oedematous, and shows a pallid appearance. The parts involved stand out in marked relief, in contrast with the surrounding membrane. When the ary-epiglottidean folds are involved the oedema is usually bilateral, and the swollen folds appear as two grayish pyriform swell- ings. When the oedema is great it may largely occlude the glottis and produce more or less dyspnoea. In oedema of the ventricular bands the glottis is greatly constricted. The vocal cords are completely covered