LYMPHANGEITIS. 369 condition of the tissues1: thus, if of normal vitality, they can certainly resist a considerable number of germs; if their vitality he lowered, but few of the same germs are requisite to produce serious consequences; of course, given an enormous dose of germs, no condition of tissues howsoever healthy can inhibit their development. The time at which a dead body can convey an infective and therefore dangerous form of lym- phangeitis, is before putrefaction is well established—that is, the more recent the death the greater the danger—because the infective germs thrive and multiply only in living tissues, while the septic germs can develop only in dead or dying tissues; hence the introduction of the latter into an ordinary dissecting or post-mortem wound can only pro- duce a local irritation from the accompanying ptomaines; the germs themselves cannot multiply in the living tissues. The slow development of septic lymphangeitis results not from “the slow nature of the lymphatic circulation,” but because the germs re- quire a certain time for their diffusion along the lymph-vessels, for their multiplication to the point at which their numbers are adequate to overcome the vitality of the parts, and for a sufficient amount of ptomaines or toxalbumoses to have been elaborated to produce the con- stitutional reaction. Certain rare cases exist, such as one mentioned by Berthod, where the point of infection is at the elbow, and yet the lymphangeitis de- scends, and suppuration occurs in the forearm ; Berthod explains this on the anatomical ground of the presence of recurrent lymph-vessels.2 The rapidity with which a septic lymphangeitis may develop is shown by a case of Hunter's, mentioned by Crookshank, where, after a puncture, redness extending to the axilla, swollen and painful glands, with a chill, all occurred inside of a few minutes. Weber3 relates a similar case, and I have myself seen one where the axillary lymphatic engorgement was so great within about three hours as to cause marked tingling and numbness in the median and ulnar nerve distri- bution. The role played by lymphangeitis in plegmonous processes, whether circumscribed, diffused, or visceral, can hardly be exaggerated, since cellulitis of an extremity is always consecutive to lymphangeitis, the connective tissue being infected by two routes—(1) indirectly, by the lymphatic vessels, and (2) by the direct inoculation of the connective tissue (that is, lymph-spaces) by germs deposited in these by the vulner- ating body. According to Cornil and Babes, at the first spot in which the bacteria multiply there occurs softening of the surrounding tissue, an irritation marked by a neuro-paralytic dilatation of the capillaries and by diapedesis of lymph-cells, constituting already a small abscess (this is where direct inoculation of the connective tissue has occurred). In- flammatory reaction then ensues with diffusion of the micro-organisms in the interfascicular lymph-spaces, whence they enter the lymphatic and blood capillaries. A more or less distant point is thus invaded, and then in succession new collections occur, which unite to form diffuse infiltration in a larger or smaller abscess. 1 It is not due to a “mortification” which “takes place in the vital endowments of the septic organism, whereby it acquires a parasitic habit which enables it to breed in tissues of degraded vitality, or even in the healthy tissues, ” as stated by Mr. Bellamy, who quotes from Roberts. See Yol. II., p. 30. a Abstract from Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1884, in Annals of Surgery, vol. i., p. 369. 3 Duplay et Reclus, tome i., p. 656. VOL. VII.—24