TUMORS. 250 median than any other nerve of this part. The changes never reach farther toward the centi-e than the points of exit of the nerves at the vertebral or cranial foramina. The optic nerve appears to remain un- affected in all cases, and usually the auditory nerve also, facts which Goldmann tries to explain by the development of these nerves at an early stage in foetal life. Although both forms of nerve may be af- fected, the sensory is the most frequently attacked. Besides the fibro- mata of the skin already noted, abnormal pigmentation, elephantiasis, and* lymphangeiomata are often associated with the disease. The cirsoid form makes external tumors which to the sight resemble hypertrophic folds of skin, similar to those seen in elephantiasis, but to the touch the worm-like feel of the bulbous nerve-ends within is characteristic. Con- sistently with their congenital origin the tumors are usually observed in early life, although they may not be noticed until later, and this is- especially true of the single growths. When these tumors are extirpated, they sometimes return like malig- nant growths. Still oftener one of them may suddenly develop symp- toms of malignancy in rapid growth and pain, and on removal will show a distinct sarcomatous structure, recurring also at the original seat of disease, but rarely if ever giving rise to metastasis. Keloid.—Among the fibrous tumors must be included the peculiar outgrowth so often associated with scars, called keloid. Of late years the tendency among authors has been to disregard the distinction for- merly drawn so closely between true or spontaneous keloid and the false keloid or hypertrophied cicatrix. There is a certain slight histological difference between the two, but otherwise they are alike, for the mere fact that one originates in a scar and that the other is supposed to arise independently will scarcely answer as a reason for holding them apart, since the so-called spontaneous form may actually have started in some' minute cicatrix, it being already well known that even the scar of an acne pustule may frequently be the source of origin of a large keloid growth. Both sexes are liable to keloid, which is rare in infancy, al- though Bryant and Volkmann are said to have each observed a case which was congenital, and Vidal has seen it develop in a child three months old in the cicatrix of a vaccination-pustule. Keloid is often symmetrical and multiple, and is most frequent over the sternum, and on the shoulders, buttocks and arms, while it is rare on the legs. In some cases it seems as if there were an hereditary influ- ence. It has been claimed that keloid is especially frequent in cases of svringo-myelia, but in six successive cases of this disease Leloir and Vidal found no instance of keloid formation. Keloid is more common in the African race than in others, and I have seen one case in an old negro woman where the entire body was covered with huge welts of unknown origin. In this case the tumors were elongated, slightly curved, following the natural skin folds, and many of them were seve- ral inches long, an inch or more wide, and an inch in height. The masses were very uneven on the surface, like the rough bark of a tree, and in fact the patient's body reminded one forcibly of the trunk of a tree with lichens growing upon it. Hayes reports a similar case, and although Warren criticises the classification of such tumors with keloid, their clinical history resembles it so closely that in spite of the differen-