SPINAL CARIES. G59 6 Park, Med. Press of Western New York, Jan., 1887. Following the hyperaemia produced by traumatism 1 or by disease, infection occurs through the blood-vessel system; bacilli aggregate in the capillaries of the Haversian canals, endarteritis is set up, and in the centre appears a small grayish spot. Rarefying osteitis follows, the trabeculae are absorbed, and fatty degeneration of the bone cells soon occurs, with the formation of embryonal or granulation tissue in which giant and epithelioid cells are readily found. The gray spots slowly become yellowish, and speedily caseate or break down into pus. There is but little reason to doubt that this process is tuberculous, as it corresponds histologically with tuberculous changes in other re- gions. Inoculation experiments, such as those of Schiller, Parllovski2 and others prove that bone tuberculosis and general tuberculosis are interchangeable. Bacteriologically it is not easy to demonstrate the presence of the tubercle bacillus,3 as it is only found in a small pro- portion of cases,4 but patient search by Ehrlicher’s or other method will demonstrate its presence, and inoculation or culture tests will ordi- narily establish the nature of the process.5 Rare Forms op Spinal Abscess.—Abscesses from spinal caries in the dorsal region occasionally discharge into the pleural cavity and from thence into the lungs. I have seen several cures take place, even when pus has taken this route. The diagnosis between this process and lung tuberculosis is often difficult, unless the history and progress of the case are thoroughly considered. I have in a number of instances seen abscesses opening into the bladder, rectum, or vagina. In another case a tumor diagnosed as “fatty” had formed just above the knee; careful palpation discovered induration extending up the thigh and into the pelvis. There was no deformity, but diligent inquiry revealed the existence of a “ weak back” for nine years, and subsequent post-mortem examination disclosed a carious lumbar vertebra. I have also seen a pelvic accumulation of pus burst rapidly through the ischiatic foramen, when compressed anteriorly by the application of a plaster jacket. Process of Repair after Spinal Caries.—It is absolutely true that loss of tissue from vertebral tuberculosis is never thoroughly re- paired ; hence the resultant deformity will depend largely upon such loss of tissue. When once angulation has occurred, deformity is perma- nent ; but of course if the spine is held rigidly straight from the incep- tion of the disease, the amount of new tissue formed between the dis- eased bodies will be greater, and hence the deformity will be markedly less. The Spinal Deformity.—Lateral deviation may occur not only in the cervical region, as noted in Mr. Treves's article, but also in the dorsal and lumbar regions. It is due either to the unequal yielding of the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, or to excessive muscular action of one side, or to muscular relaxation to relieve pain. 1 Centralblatt f. Cliir., 1878, Bd. v. ; Lovett, op. cit., p. 60. 2 Hueter; Arcbiv f. Chirurgie, 1879, Bd. xl., S. 317. Lovett, op. cit., p. 68. 3 Park, Mutter Lectures on Surg. Pathology, p. 215. St. Louis, 1892. 4 Kanzlen, Berlin, klin. Wochenschrift, 2 Jan., 1884, S. 14.