458 DISEASES OF BONES. The sequestrum of osteomyelitis is enclosed in a cavity, the wall of which is never entirely complete; for the cavity communicates with the soft parts, or even with the exterior, by a fistulous track. The se- questra of osteomyelitis are very seldom absorbed. They are some- times expelled spontaneously, especially when small, and in other cases are removed by the surgeon. The loss by necrosis is sometimes so great that wliat is left of the bone is liable to fracture upon the slight- est provocation. Indeed, there may occur what are called spontaneous fractures. The discharge of pus after osteomyelitis may continue for a very long time; indeed it may go on through the whole life of the patient. In some cases the discharges are small, and inconvenience the patient but little; in others, the persistence of a fistula is followed by evidence of irritation of the nutritive processes of the soft parts, so that eczema, exuberant granulations, or even carcinoma may develop. In the bone itself, secondary bone abscesses may result from the breaking down of the new-formed tissue in the neighborhood of the original seat of irritation. Osteomyelitis may produce abnormal increase of the length of a bone. This, as has been stated above, is the result of excitation of the nutritive processes in the juxta-epiphyseal region, so admirably de- scribed by Ollier. Treatment of Acute Infectious Osteomyelitis.—The treatment of osteomyelitis is general and local. The general treatment is purely depurative and tonic. In all cases attention must be paid to the condi- tion of the bowels and of the kidneys, and both should be kept gently acting. Care must be taken that the case of the patient is not preju- diced, while he is combating the poison of osteomyelitis, by the forma- tion or retention of toxic materials in the bowels and urinary or- gans. The local treatment consists in rest, both general and local, the latter being absolute. The application of cold by means of a Leiter’s coil, or by the use of ice-bags, is often very comforting to the patient. Ullmann approves the free painting of the part with tincture of iodine, as recommended by Demme and Billroth. The iodine should be painted on with a large brush until the skin is almost blue-black, and the area covered should be larger than that of the affected bone. The painting should be repeated every second day as long as the skin will bear it. Collections of pus must be evacuated, and the cavities must be thoroughly washed out with a disinfectant solution. In the present state of surgical science, any condition like that of osteomye- litis calls for early and thorough removal of any infectious material; therefore early incision should be practised, and thorough disinfection with solutions of carbolic acid, or chloride of zinc, or (according to my experience) tincture of iodine; after which drainage and thorough antiseptic treatment must be continued. Openings of this sort should be washed out again and again until the cavities appear to have lost the characteristics of specific inflammation. If the pus is seated in the sub-periosteal region, it is comparatively easy to evacuate it. If in the bone, the process is more difficult. In the latter case, the bone must be trephined. Kocher practises injection of the bone cavity by means of a perforator and a syringe, or by means of a trephine with