903 INGUINAL COLOTOMY. much better. Bryant with his large experience still holds to the old, most others prefer the new. The truth is, there are few operations in surgery apparently as simple as the formation of an artificial anus, and yet in which the skill and experience of the operator tell for as much in the subsequent comfort of the patient. Almost anybody can make an artificial anus; but not everybody can make one that shall be a comfort and not an additional annoyance to the bearer. Bryant gets good re- sults from the lumbar incision and thinks it in every way preferable to the inguinal. I have never performed it, never having had a case in which I did not prefer the other, though I can imagine that such a case might occur—one, for instance, of intestinal obstruction from stricture of the rectum in which there was so much distention of the abdomen by gas that an incision into it would cause a practical evis- ceration, with the danger of having to puncture or incise the intestines before they could be replaced. The distention in such a case, which would render the anterior operation much more difficult, would only render the lumbar operation easier by pushing the descending colon into the incision. To my mind the great advantage of the anterior incision, and one more than counterbalancing all the supposed advantages of the pos- terior, lies in the fact that the patient can care for an opening which he can see and reach, more easily than he can for one in his back; and I find no disadvantages in the inguinal operation to offset this palpable advantage. The dangers of incising the peritoneum, of having to search for the sigmoid flexure, or of extravasation into the peritoneal cavity when the gut is incised, have been, adcording to my experience, exaggerated. Patients thus operated on nearly all do well, and when any danger arises it is not one that could have been obviated by making the incision somewhere else. I have had to search a few moments for the sigmoid flexure through the abdominal opening, but similar delay often occurs with the lumbar method. In almost all cases the loop desired lies under the finger when the peritoneum is incised. And yet I have had some curious experiences with this operation, and it may be said that no one can know exactly what he is to meet with when he begins it. For instance, in more than one case, although there has been no difficulty in putting the finger on the coil of gut wanted, there has been difficulty in raising it to the surface of the abdomen and stitching it there, on account of a short mesentery. Normally there should be a free mesentery to all parts of the sigmoid flexure, but abnormalities in this part of the gut are very common, and the absence of a mesentery seems not infrequent. Such a con- dition renders the operation much more difficult, but I have never known the obstacle to be insuperable, nor have I failed in the end to get a good and useful anus on this account. In one of my cases I stitched the transverse colon to the incision, not because of a short mesentery, but because of the amount of cancerous infiltration which made me prefer to avoid that part of the bowel. It would have been no better with the lumbar incision, however, as the same condition existed all along the descending colon. In another of my cases I met with a peculiar complication, which could not well have happened in the lumbar operation to be sure, but which was not a danger to be anticipated. The operation was done ex-