226 TUMORS. of subfascial lipoma which he was able to collect were of congenital origin. Fibroma is rarer, but has been found in polypoid form on the jaw (Piskagek), in the vagina (Martin), and bladder (Marsh), and not infrequently in the skin, especially of the forehead. Osteoma is less common, but cases are on record in the leg and about the superior epiphysis of the humerus (Pott), while chondroma is known only in the form of small tumors lying subcutaneously over the sterno-mastoid muscle, probably of branchiogenic origin (Bidder, Treves), although Sutton thinks that they may represent supernumerary auricles—a de- formity of which he has seen two or three well-marked examples. Myoma of congenital origin has been observed in the heart wall by two or three observers (Recklinghausen). Angeiomata of various forms are of course common, occurring in the lymphatics as well as in the blood-vessels. But most unusual of all is the early occurrence of malignant disease, especially the epithelial forms, in children born of healthy parents. In fact it may be legitimately doubted if carcinoma ever thus occurs. The only recorded cases appear to be the following:—Noeggerath reports a child born dead of a healthy mother, in which the liver weighed two pounds and was carcinomatous. Wedl (quoted by Ahlfeld) reports a case involving the liver, pancreas, and mediastinal glands. Widerhofer and Parker give cases affecting the liver. Ahlfeld reports from the body of a siren monster, with imperforate anus, a carcinomatous nodule developed in the mucous membrane of the blind end of the large intes- tine, but the amount of deformity in this case renders it unsatisfactory. Arnozan says that two cases have been recorded of cancer of the pan- creas in the new-born. Cullingworth found in a child who died in five weeks of inanition, due to persistent vomiting beginning ten days after birth, a polypoid tumor which grew from the internal surface of the lower border of the pylorus, and occluded that opening, its structure being described as a “cylinder-celled epithelioma.” Finally, Ritter re- ports a pedunculated tumor removed from the end of the nose of a new-born child, which also had tumors in the parotid and submaxillary regions, probably secondary glandular growths. The latter continued to increase, and caused death by suffocation in three weeks. He calls the tumor a carcinoma, but according to his description its structure resembled rather that of a sarcoma. Epithelial malignant growths are therefore at best very rare in the foetus and new-born child. Sarcoma, however, is quite a common form of growth in the new- born. Jacobi collected over 40 cases of sarcoma of the kidney, and 12 others in the head, leg, scapula, jaws, femur, axilla, ovary, and tongue, to which we may add still others in the foot (Rehn), face (Zahn), shoulder (Mandillon), umbilical cord (Kaufmann), intestine, liver (De Ruyter), suprarenals, mesenteric glands, thyroid (Zahn), and cheek. Osteo-sarcoma, which Cristiani declares to be very rare, has nevertheless attacked the lower jaw in three cases, the scapula, and the femur, beside the case of involvement of the tibia reported by Billroth. Holmes gives a case occurring in the skin of the back of the neck in a child 14 days old, with no recurrence in six months after operation. Heredity.—The doctrine of heredity in the etiology of new-growths, which at one time was unquestioned, has of late years been more thor-