(489 ) DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. BY ROBERT W. LOVETT, M.D., ASSISTANT SURGEON TO THE CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL, OUT-PATIENT SURGEON TO THE BOSTON CITY HOSPITAL, AND SURGEON TO THE INFANTS’ HOSPITAL, BOSTON. Probably no department of Surgical Pathology has experienced a more radical change in the last ten years than that relating to diseases of the joints. Not that new diseases or new conditions have been dis- covered ; simply that old and well-known pathological conditions have been differently interpreted. Tuberculosis, which occupied a compara- tively minor place in the old system, has come forward to take the chief place in the joint pathology of to-day. Perhaps we attribute too much to it and allow it more scope than it deserves, for the pathology of bone and joint disease is a department of much uncertainty. It is indeed a transition time in these matters: no classification worthy of the name exists, and there is no authority in the matter weighty enough to establish a classification which would be accepted by all. Syphilis and rheumatism are unknown factors to a large extent, and their pathological and clin- ical manifestations are often confused with those of tuberculosis. The chief duty, then, of one who would record the progress of the last ten years must be to state briefly on what grounds the various affec- tions have been accepted as tuberculous, and what influence this must have upon their treatment. Synovitis and articular osteitis will be con- sidered from this general point of view, and then attention will be paid to the diseases of the individual joints with especial regard to the more recent methods of treatment. Synovitis. Simple Acute Synovitis.—-Simple serous synovitis deserves no es- pecial mention, as no modification of note has taken place in the views held by surgeons with regard to it, except in the general direction which has already been indicated. More cases are recognized as in- stances of tuberculosis than formerly. Especially is this true in chil- dren, where it is urged that a diagnosis of acute synovitis should be made with very great circumspection, and only after recovery has taken place. As hip disease, for example, has been studied, it has been seen that many a case remains latent until some fall calls into being the active symptoms. These follow immediately upon the traumatism and are naturally enough attributed to it, whereas a chronic osteitis was