1012 CAESAREAN OPERATIONS AND SYMPHYSEOTOMY. of the woman at the time it is performed, and in a measure, also, upon what prior attempts have been made to deliver her. The promis- ing cases are those of patients not yet in labor, or in it only two or three hours; and where there have been no attempts to deliver through the pelvis. The Porro-Uesarean Operation ; Puerperal Ccelio-Hysterectomy. This operation has had a very thorough trial upon several hundred patients, and in twenty-one different countries. It is now being per- formed about 50 times each year, and the mortality under it in the years 1890 and 1891 was II per cent, for the women and 29 per cent, for the children. This is an unusual death-rate for the latter, as shown by the 100 cases of the years 1884, 1885, and 1886, collectively, when only 15 children were lost, although 42 women died. There has been a gradual diminution in the rate of mortality for the women during the nineteen years of its performance; for out of the first 40 cases there were 21 deaths. When this exsective operation was introduced by the Pavian profes- sor in 1876, its design was to reduce the fearful rate of death that fol- lowed the old Csesarean section in Italy, by changing the intra-abdomi- nal wound of the uterus into an extra-abdominal one that should be free from the danger of leakage of any kind into the peritoneal cavity. This it in a measure secured; but the introduction of the antiseptic technique of 1880, with its system of multiple suturing of the uterine incision, accomplished much more, and did not have the objectionable features of rendering the woman sterile; of drawing in her abdomen above the bladder; and of the slow closure of a granulating wound. Many obstetricians object to the Porro method in the cases of married women, and prefer the conservative mode of operation which has been so successfully and frequently performed in Germany. And besides, if desirable in any case, the woman may be rendered sterile with less risk by ligating her Fallopian tubes. The Porro-Caesarean operation is to be preferred where the subject has osteomalacia, has decided threatenings of septic endometritis, or has a fibroid tumor of the uterus that should be removed by exsection. By the subperitoneal method of securing the stump, there has been a reduction of mortality to 12 per cent., and some of the objectiona- ble features of the extraperitoneal method have been removed. The exsective Caesarean operations of the United States have saved 18 out of 29 women, while of 29 children 9 have been lost. As this operation has repeatedly cured osteomalacia, it should always be selected when that affection is present. Symphyseotomy; Division of the Symphysis Pubis. This operation has been so repeatedly described in an historical sense that I shall avoid examining its early record, except in so far as very recent investigations make it desirable. This method of delivery, by enlarging the calibre of the pelvis, dates