228 TUMORS. gout, or lithsemia in some form. Working somewhat on the same lines, Rommelaere has found that the urea excreted is diminished in amount in individuals hearing a malignant neoplasm, and has even in- sisted that this fact might be utilized in the diagnosis of doubtful cases. Thus Thiriar, in a study of 46 cases of abdominal tumor submitted to operation, found that the urea was normal in amount whenever the tumors were benign, but decidedly diminished, below 12 grammes per diem, when they were malignant, and that, too, independently of effects which could be ascribed to cachexia. Other observers contradict this statement, as for instance Ranzier, who found that the diminution of urea was proportionate to the degree of cachexia which existed, for in 13 patients with benign abdominal tumors only 6 (with complicating nephritis) had the urea diminished, while of 9 malignant cases in all but 2 there was less than the normal quantity, and in one case it was possible by this means to make the diagnosis between ulcer and cancer of the stomach. A recent study by Toepfer of the nitrogen excreted in these cases reveals an additional fact of great interest. Working in Professor Frank’s laboratory in Vienna, he studied 22 cases (2 normal, 10 with various diseases, 9 with carcinoma, and 1 with sarcoma), finding the urea diminished in all the carcinoma- tous cases, but also in those of tuberculosis, atheroma with marasmus, and ulcer of the stomach. Curiously enough, it was increased in the case of sarcoma. But he also studied the nitrogen contained in the uric acid, ammonia, and extractives, separately, with the result of find- ing a remarkable increase of the nitrogen contained in the extractives, amounting to from six to twenty-five times the normal amount, and this difference was limited to the carcinomatous tumors and was com- pletely independent of cachexia, as it was present even in small epithe- liomata of the lip and nose. The blood also has been investigated in these diseases. Neubert had found that the corpuscles and haemoglobin, but especially the latter, were markedly diminished in malignant disease, when, under the guid- ance of Mikulicz, Bierfreund studied a very large number of cases and declared that benign tumors did not affect the composition of the blood,. nor its rate of regeneration after severe losses. Malignant tumors, however, are associated with reduction of the amount of haemoglobin, before the general health appears to have been affected, and even after removal of the tumor, with freedom from recurrence for two or three years, it is found that the fluid has not regained its normal character- istics. If great loss of blood has occurred, the blood is not regenerated as rapidly as usual, requiring from twenty-three to twenty-seven days instead of the fourteen to twenty days needed in health. I am careful to say that these changes are associated with malignant tumors, be- cause it is impossible to determine, in the present state of our knowledge of this obscure subject, whether the changes are the result of the tumors, or are in some way connected with their cause. But the facts have been demonstrated as stated. It may be as well to note in this branch of our subject the question of the connection between malignant disease and tuberculosis. On the one hand, various authors have stated that tuberculosis excluded malig- nant disease, so rare was the combination of the two. On the other hand, a few have so frequently found a family history of tuberculosis in ques-