ABSCESSES AND ULCERS. 160 not be necessary; if, however, the cavity is large and deep, a perforated rubber drainage tube should be passed to its lowest part, and should be made to project at the most dependent point of the abscess, being secured by a safety-pin passed through its extremity on a level with the skin. In large or irregularly-shaped abscesses a number of tubes may be introduced in the same way, and their extremities may be brought out at different points. Glass drainage-tubes may also be employed, or a few strips of iodoform or bichloride gauze may be passed to the bottom of the abscess cavity, and brought out at the most de- pendent portion of the incision and used in the place of tubes. The line of incision is next covered by a strip of protective which has been sterilized by dipping it in a 1-2000 bichloride solution, and over this is laid a large pad coimposed of a number of layers of bichloride, iodo- form, or sterilized gauze, and the dressing is completed by the ap- plication of a number of layers of bichloride or sterilized cotton, the whole being held in position by a roller bandage or by adhesive straps. If the dressings become soaked with the discharges from the abscess cavity, they should be renewed at the end of twenty-fcur hours; if, however, the discharge is not copious, the dressings need not be changed for two or three days, when the drainage tubes or gauze drains may be removed. The subsequent dressing of the abscess consists in the application of a pad of gauze and cotton, applied as before described. After opening an acute abscess, it is often found useful, in order to cleanse the cavity thoroughly, to employ an injec- tion of peroxide of hydrogen, and to continue the injection until the effervescence in the escaping discharges ceases, when the cavity should be irrigated with the antiseptic solution as already described. It has also been recommended in the treatment of acute abscesses that the incision should be made so free as to thoroughly expose the cavity, and that the inner surface should be gently rubbed with a pledget of gauze held with forceps, so as to remove the lining membrane as far as possible, when the ordinary warm antiseptic irrigation and the dress- ings already mentioned may be employed. The only objection to this method is the free hemorrhage which the destruction of the walls of the abscess entails. If the cavity becomes filled with blood, a strip of protective should be placed over the incision, and a moist gauze dressing, covered by a layer of mackintosh and bichloride cotton, should be applied. If the cavity has been rendered thoroughly aseptic, it is possible that organization of the blood-clot may take place, and that cicatrization may result in this manner. The healing of an acute abscess, if the incision has evacuated the contents freely, is usually very prompt under these methods of treatment. Chronic Abscess.—Chronic abscesses are generally of tubercular origin, and as long as they remain chronic do not contain cocci; the material with which they are filled, although it resembles pus in ap- pearance, is, by modern pathologists, not considered to be true pus, since it contains very few corpuscles and consists largely of broken-down and liquefied tubercle. This variety of abscess is classed by many writers as the caseous abscess. True chronic abscesses are occasionally seen in which the collection of purulent matter is surrounded by a dense capsule.