CARCINOMA. 293 and 138 patients remaining well for three years or more, out of 201 whose fate was noted for that length of time. This would give a per- centage of 68.6 per cent, of cures, an extraordinary record. Unfor- tunately he does not seem to have verified his diagnosis with the mi- croscope, so that it is probable that these brilliant results may prove somewhat overdrawn. It is impossible to conceive how hot steel can be any better than cold steel in giving freedom from recurrence; cer- tainly there is not as much tissue removed or destroyed by the cautery as in a properly performed vaginal hysterectomy. Carcinoma of the Vagina.—Primary epithelial cancer of the va- gina is a comparatively rare affection (Hecht found 50 cases among 4507 of cancer in women), and, contrary to what might be expected, it is even rarer in the prolapsed mucous membrane than in that part which is within the canal. Zizold suggests that this difference may be considered analogous to the more frequent occurrence of cancer of the glans penis when there is phimosis; hut the parallel is a bad one, for even if the prolapsed mucous membrane is rendered tougher, it is also irritated by contact with the clothing, etc., whereas when remaining in the vaginal canal it is in its natural environment, and in spite of the secretions of the part is less irritated. On the other hand, the glans penis is not covered with true mucous membrane, and its expo- sure practically converts its covering into true skin, while when covered with the prepuce it is kept in a state of irritation by foul secretions, not being surrounded by normal mucus which has a free opportunity to escape, as is the case with the vaginal mucous membrane. Of the forty-five cases of malignant disease of the vagina collected by Zizold, in three it was caused by the abuse of pessaries. In one case on record the patient was only nine years of age, and two others were between fifteen and twenty, but nearly one-half of the whole number were from thirty to forty years old. The disease may be epithelioma or ordinary carcinoma, and in about two-thirds of the cases it is situated on the posterior wall. It often gives no symptoms until very far advanced, and in all twelve cases in which it was operated upon, probably from this reason, recurrence took place. In a case recently under my care the patient was unaware of the presence of the small vaginal ulcer which was the primary centre of disease, complaining only of the pains in her lower extremities due to secondary pelvic masses, and of a pain- ful metastatic tumor in the skull. Carcinoma of the Penis.—While some authors consider phimosis a frequent cause of carcinoma of the penis, claiming that 75 per cent, of their patients had narrow foreskins, others admit the occurrence of this peculiar formation in only 10 per cent., and consequently deny all etiological importance to this condition. The disease begins in the glans more frequently than in the prepuce, and generally infects the inguinal glands, but not at a very early period. In this situation ap- parently more often than in any other, the enlargement of the glands is inflammatory, for they have not infrequently been left untouched, and yet have not undergone further development. In two of Czerny’s cases enlarged glands were removed, and were found to contain no carcinomatous tissue.