811 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Wounds of the Chest. Non-penetrating Wounds.—Wounds of the chest are Conveniently divided into non-penetrating and penetrating wounds. The non-pene- trating variety comprises all punctures and lacerations involving the soft parts about the chest-walls. They are rarely of a serious charac- ter, except when a large artery is severed, such as the subscapular, which may bleed freely for a time, but is easily controlled. The great- est care must be exercised in the examination of deep, non-penetrating wounds, that they are not needlessly converted into penetrating wounds, especially in attempting to locate the missile in cases o^ gunshot injury. In most cases the diagnosis may easily be made if the character of the vulnerating body is known. Emphysema is often present, and is due to the sucking of air into the cellular tissue around the wound by the bellows-like action of the chest-walls, and its presence is not in any way pathognomonic of wounds of the lung. 1 am familiar with a case in which extensive emphysema occurred, involving the regions over the perineum, buttock, and abdomen, up to the axilla, as the result of a perineal abscess opening into the rectum. Care must be taken to differ- entiate between emphysema and gaseous cellulitis. A case of the latter is reported by Dungern,1 in which this condition followed extirpation of the rectum. Dungern believed the presence of air to be due to gas- producing bacilli which were found in abundance in the cellular tissue. Treatment of Non-penetrating Wounds.—If foreign bodies are lodged or embedded in the ribs, they must be removed, and the bleed- ing controlled as soon as possible. If muscles are divided, they must be accurately united by buried catgut sutures. If the deeper layers of fascia are opened, drainage must be secured from the most dependent portion, and dressings should he applied as to like wounds in other parts of the body, care being taken to immobilize the chest-walls as much as possible, as their movements will have a tendency to delay union. The more remote dangers are those due to septic absorption— tetanus, erysipelas, gangrene, etc. The possibility of pleurisy or pneumonia following, with their sequelae, must not be overlooked. In rare cases peritonitis or pericarditis majr be developed in an unlooked- for manner, probably as the result of septic embolism. Penetrating Wounds of the Chest.—These may be subdivided into those opening into the cavity of the thorax and those implicating the viscera. They may be of the most varying character, from the slightest puncture, as by a knitting needle, to the greatest destruction of substance, as by the end of a wagon pole. These wounds are danger- ous from the accompanying hemorrhage, destruction of lung tissue, entrance of septic material, etc. In penetrating wounds of the chest, no matter from what cause, the lung is usually injured, and the two most characteristic signs will be bleeding and the presence of pneumothorax with emphysema. Hemor- rhage may occur into the bronchi, when the expectorated matter may consist of pure blood, or of a frothy light-red mixture, which in a few 1 Munch, med. Wochenschr., Bd. xl., S. 747, 1893.