450 DISEASES OF BONES. Infectious Osteomyelitis. The nature of infectious osteomyelitis is now quite well understood, es- pecially since the investigations of Liicke, Klebs, Eberth, Schuller, and others. A large number of observations have been followed by a large number of experiments upon lower animals, in which cultures of cer- tain bacteria, especially the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus and albus, have been introduced into bone, with the result of producing typical osteomyelitis. One of the most interesting contributions to the subject was made by Rodet, of Lyons, in 1884.1 In his experiments Rodet made intravenous injections of the pus of infectious osteomyelitis, or of a culture fluid obtained from it; and in eight out of four- teen cases produced juxta-epipliyseal osteomyelitis. In one of his experiments he used a culture of the thirteenth generation and pro- duced osteomyelitis of both femurs, one tibia, and one humerus. The osteitis observed by Rodet was usually of the rarefying sort, but in a few cases it was condensing osteitis. In 1886, Widmark, of Stock- holm, concluded, from experiments made with the streptococcus pyo- genes and the staphylococcus, that the former excited limited inflamma- tion, while the latter caused inflammation of an erysipelatous type. However, many experiments and careful observations by different in- vestigators have apparently clearly established the fact that the cocci found in infectious osteomyelitis are not peculiar to this disease, but are common excitants of suppurative inflammation, causing abscesses wherever they are operative. The peculiar features of osteomyelitis depend, therefore, not upon the agent by which it is excited, but upon the anatomical and physiological characteristics of the organ in which it occurs. Interesting details on this subject can be found in a number of works on pathology; here I must content myself simply with stating the final result of investigations on this subject, namely, that this form of osteitis is occasioned by the presence in the bones of one or other of the forms of bacteria known as staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, citreus, or albus, and the streptococcus pyogenes; and that there may lie found in the inflammatory product the pneumococcus and the bacillus of typhoid fever. These latter have been looked upon as causing osteomyelitis, but this is not clearly demonstrated. The mode of entrance of the infective agent in osteomyelitis may be direct, in consequence of a wound exposing the bone—a very rare mode of infection—or the micro-organisms may reach the bone tissue by the route of the circulation. As in other infective diseases, it is believed that these organisms may lie inactive in, or pass inactive through, the bone, without exciting inflammatory action until something which acts like a traumatism—a real traumatism, or a shock from cold, or the lowering of the power of the tissues by disease—prepares a condition in which the specific micro-organism develops its full activity and sets up an active malady. This is the view entertained largely by German investigators, but Lannelongue asserts that no case of osteomyelitis can be found in which there is not—even though it be not discovered- some excoriation of the skin or mucous membrane by which the germ may effect an entrance to the circulation. For my own part I may 1 Revue de Chirurgie, 1885.