680 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. or mal-assimilation should be corrected. All throat and nose compli- cations should receive appropriate treatment, and as soon as the irrita- tion of the eyes has sufficiently subsided they should be examined, while under the influence of a mydriatic (preferably atropine), for refractive errors. When found, these should be corrected by the proper glasses. When the conjunctiva alone is affected, calomel dusted on the eye and the simple washes are all that is necessary, unless the ulcer should prove obstinate, when it may be touched daily with a five-grain solution of nitrate of silver. Corneal invasion will be treated of under the next heading. Affections of the Cornea. The three principal layers of the cornea, viz., the epithelium, Bow- man's membrane and the cornea proper, and Descemet’s membrane, correspond to the three coats against which they abut, viz., the con- junctiva, sclera, and uvea (iris and ciliary body), and in fact the micro- scope does not show any sharp line of demarcation between the cornea and sclera, the fibres of each passing imperceptibly into the other. The cornea is therefore from its intimate connection with these parts most likely to sympathize, or by contiguity and continuity to be infected or affected, by any abnormality existing in them. Keratitis.—Inflammation of the cornea may be suppurative or non- suppurative. The first stage is infiltration, and in the non-suppurative form resorption takes place. In suppurative keratitis there are three stages, viz., infiltration, sup- puration, and cicatrization. Fuchs says: “ We must first examine the corneal reflex. If the surface is dull, we are dealing with a recent af- fection, and in that case, if there is no loss of substance, with an infil- trate or with an abscess; but if a loss of substance is present, with a foul ulcer. If the surface is lustrous, the affection is an old one; if a loss of substance is present, it is a clean ulcer that we have before us; but if no loss of substance is visible, we are dealing with a cicatrix.” An easy and positive way of diagnosing corneal inflammation or injury is by the use of the solution of fluorescine, which stains all breaks and softened spots in the epithelium a green color. In suppurative keratitis there is always a loss of tissue when the ulcer extends below Bowman’s membrane. True corneal tissue is never reproduced when once de- stroyed, and healing takes place by cicatrization which begins from the sides and bottom of the ulcer. Non-suppurative keratitis may result in perfect recovery of vision, but if the cellular elements are not entirely resorbed, then haziness remains. This haziness may be in the corneal layers or on the membrane of Descemet, and accompanying iritis with synechias may be a strong factor in causing dimmed vision. Treatment of Suppurative Keratitis.—Cleanliness is of prime impor- tance, and when the ulceration has been caused by disease of the lids, this should be vigorously treated. The solutions of boric acid and salt, bichloride of mercury (1 - 1000), and chlorine water are sufficient for cleansing. Atropine is most important for allaying irritation and pre- venting iritis, though it is hardly possible to do this. For chronic