INJURIES OF BONES. 413 9 Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 10. 1885. 10 Lancet, June 30, 1888. emery wheel. I was trying to get the fragments in place, when his respiration ceased, and it was evident that blood had run down into the air-passages. I instantly performed tracheotomy, and a large amount of blood, partly clotted, was evacuated through the wound. Perfect recovery ensued. Fractures of the Laryngeal Apparatus. Lane 1 found in a woman aged SO, a subject in the dissecting-room, the cornua of the hyoid bone separated from the body of the bone; the left greater cornu had been obliquely fractured, and united by fibrous tissue; the thyroid cartilage was deformed, its angle widened out, and its aloe bent so that their posterior surfaces looked inward. The injury was thought to have been caused by a blow on the neck. Berry2 reports the case of a man aged 21, struck by a piece of wood thrown off by a circular saw; there was no spitting of blood, but he died from asphyxia in about twelve hours. At the autopsy the Wings of the thyroid cartilage were found to he separated and splintered, the angle of one being broken off. Devernine3 saw in 1887 a young man aged 24, who nine }7ears pre- viously had struck on his throat upon a trapeze-bar, sustaining a frac- ture in the middle line of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and of the upper four rings of the trachea. Union had taken place well, but the patient was suffering from phthisis, which proved fatal in the follow- ing year. In a case reported by Sokolovski,4 a woman was struck across the throat by “the strap of a mill,” and had a fracture of the thyroid car- tilage and of both sides of the cricoid. Tracheotomy was performed on the second day ; pieces of necrosed cartilage came away in the fourth week, and a month later both halves of the thyroid cartilage were re- moved. The patient made a good recovery. Other cases of severe injuries of the larynx are reported by Knaggs,5 by Manby,6 and by Jeanmaire.7 Deakin R states that in fourteen cases of judicial hanging in India he found, as a rule, either rupture of the epiglottis or fracture of the hyoid bone or laryngeal cartilages. Fractures of tile Bibs, Costal Cartilages, and Sternum. The first rib alone has been seen fractured in two cases by Lane.9 In one, union had failed to occur. Another instance is reported by Marsh,” who cites three additional cases, and thinks that in all the mechanism was direct violence applied through the clavicle. In a case given by Messiter,11 a man aged 70 was run over by a cart, and died of shock; the sternal end of the right clavicle was luxated I Trans, of Pathological Society of London, 1884. 3 British Medical Journal, May 24, 1890. 5 Brit. Med. Journal, Nov. 8, 1884. ’ Arch, de Med. et de Pharm. Militaires, 1890. II Brit. Med. Journal, Feb. 19, 1887. 2 Lancet, May 23, 1885. 4 Lancet, June 8, 1889. 6 Lancet, Jan. 9. 1886. 8 Lancet. Jan. 5, 1884.