267 SARCOMA. and IT per cent, of spindle-cell, while in one case cartilage was present. The growths varied in size, the average being as large as a hen’s egg, and the largest the size of two fists. One-fifth of them were covered with villous growths upon their surface. These tumors occurred either before five or after fifty years of age, the middle periods of life being free from them. In children they were often multiple, and tended to assume a polypoid form, while in adults the reverse was true. In chil- dren too they were seated in the lower portion of the bladder, while in adults the most common situation was low down on the posterior wall, near the ureters. Albarran, in a collection of ninety-seven cases of operation for malignant tumors of the bladder (both sarcoma and car- cinoma), found only two in which the patients remained well for any length of time—for one year and for three years—the former an ex- ample of sarcoma, the latter of carcinoma. Sarcoma of the prostate is also well known, although not a very common form of tumor. It would seem probable that many of the so-called carcinomatous tumors of the prostate occurring in children might be really sarcomata. Sarcoma of the Nose, Mouth, Tonsils, Jaws, Tongue, and Sal- ivary Glands.—Coming now to a general review of other situations where sarcoma is found, and beginning with the nasal cavities, we find here an unusual benignity of course, in that, according to Bosworth, among 38 cases 12 are supposed to have been cured. In this region the disease appears to remain localized, to run a slow course, seldom to in- fect the lymphatics, and to be amenable to small operations. In the naso-pharynx the disease is much more malignant, growing rapidly, recurring frequently, and infecting the glands early; yet cures have been reported, sometimes after many successive operations. In the oro-phcirynx the same is true, and yet Bosworth was able to find among 17 patients 3 who remained well for two, five, and six years, show- ing that the prognosis is not absolutely bad. In the soft palate we come again to a region where the disease tends to remain localized, and the prognosis is fairly good, but this good prognosis in my opinion probably depends chiefly upon the fact that here we meet with man}^ of those forms of tumor which, although known as sarcoma, are not really clinically malignant, such as the “mixed” or teratoid tumors, and the alveolar sarcomata of endothelial origin. Of 15 patients with sarco- mata in this region, Bosworth classifies 6 as remaining well. Sarcoma of the tonsil has lately been exhaustively studied by Newman, who has collected fifty-six operations, some of them partial, after which there was no recurrence in one year in two cases, none in two years in four cases, and none in five years in two cases; but of the subjects of these local “cures” two died of sarcoma elsewhere, and one of the same growth in the other tonsil. Sarcoma of the upper jaw deserves consideration here rather than under the head of sarcoma of the bones, owing to the complex nature of the structures involved. It is interesting to find, however, that in this situation the general rule already laid down of the comparative benignity of osteoid or giant-cell sarcoma holds true as well as in the long bones, for of 9 cases of this form of growth requiring six partial and three entire removals of the jaw, Kuster obtained a cure in all,