TUMORS. 298 yet remain alive and free from disease three years or more afterward, and that number is comparatively small. Thus my lists show 180 pa- tients alive and free from recurrence for three years or more after re- moval of the mamma for carcinoma, but they also show 23 cases in which there was a relapse after that period, or eleven per cent, of the cases observed over three years. For the rectum, the tongue, and the larynx, a four years’ interval of freedom should certainly be re- quired before a patient can even relatively be said to have been cured. Taking all these facts into consideration. I have in this article required three years’ freedom from recurrence before allowing that a case is cured, and for the tongue and the rectum I have set the limit at four years. After the facts which I have been obliged to record of late return of the disease either in loco, or as the result of metastasis, and of repeated return after operations, it is necessary to throw a little more emphasis on the cheerful side of the picture by noting the comparatively large number of cases in which a cure has been established after a second or even several secondary operations. Plicque has put on record 97 such cases collected from various sources, but unfortunately I have been un- able to obtain his thesis for study. But Poulsen records three cases in which two or more recurrent mammary carcinomata were removed in the first year or eighteen months, and yet the patients remained well from eight to nine and a half years after the last operation. He also mentions two cases in which recurrent growths, appearing one three and the other five and a half years after the first operation, were suc- cessfully removed, and in which the patients continued well respectively two and three and a half years subsequently. Grouley relates two cases of very late recurrence of carcinoma of the breast (20 and 25 years af- ter the first operation), in which the patients remained well five years after the last operation; and adds a similar case of sarcoma. Parker records a case of amputation of the thigh for sarcoma recurring after amputation at the knee, in which the patient was well seven years after the second operation. Michael saw an epithelioma of the skin of the thigh recur twice, and the patient finally remain well nine years after the last operation. Similar cases of carcinoma in the rectum are recorded by Turner, Yolkmann, Sihle, and Arnd. I have met with a personal experience which is very interesting in this respect. In January, 1890, I removed a slow-growing epithelioma from the floor of the mouth, in a man forty-nine years of age, removing at the time all the mucous membrane of the lower surface of the tongue, and all the tissues be- tween the mouth and the skin under the jaw, leaving only the tongue above and the skin below. The bone was not affected at this time, but before he left the hospital a small growth had to be curetted from its inner surface. In December of the same year the patient returned with the lower jaw involved, and with a mass as large as a hen’s egg over the great vessels of the neck on the same side. I found a large gland adherent to the internal jugular vein, and excised with it over an inch of that vessel; otherwise the mass was not adherent, and two weeks afterward, when the wound had healed, I removed the right half of the body of the lower jaw with the diseased tissues attached. He made a good recovery, and now, four years after the last operation, still remains perfectly well.