872 HERNIA. If suddenly acquired, the presence of the tumor is noticed soon after a violent strain of the abdominal muscles. Pain is almost always present, and the patient is generally aware that rupture has occurred. The diagnosis of inguinal hernia involves the differentiation (1) be- tween the direct and indirect varieties, and (2) between inguinal and femoral hernias and the various swellings which may occur in this Fig. 1725. Direct Inguinal Hernia. (T. Bryant.) Fig. 1726. Indirect or Oblique Inguinal Hernia. (T. Bryant.) Fig. 1727 region—-varicocele, hydrocele, bubo, incarcerated testicle, ovary, cyst, Fallopian tube, new formations, abscess, and aneurism. A direct inguinal hernia is exceptional. The tumor formed by it is apt to be spherical (1725), is situated nearer the median line than the indirect hernia, and its neck will be found to enter the abdominal cavity immediately behind the external ring. The tumor formed by an oblique inguinal hernia (Fig. 1726) is oval or elliptical in the incomplete, and oval or pyriform in the complete variety. The history of the swelling, if gradually developed, will indi- cate that the tumor commenced at the middle of Poupart’s ligament and travelled toward the pubes. In cases of long standing, and when the tumor is of large size, the diagnosis between the direct and indirect form is scarcely possible, from the fact that the inner edge of the internal ring has been dragged down until it occupies a position just behind the external opening. A femoral hernia is situated below Pou- part’s ligament, and near its attachment to the spine of the pubis, to the inner side of the femoral vessels (Fig. 1727). In lean subjects the neck of the tumor can readily be traced to the canal at this point. In corpu- lent persons the diagnosis is more difficult. The swelling of varicocele commences in the lower posterior portion of the cord and increases gradually upward. To the touch the distended veins feel like worms. The tumor has none of the elasticity of hernia. In the re- cumbent posture a varicocele and a noil-incarcerated inguinal hernia will both disappear. If after the disappearance firm pressure be made Femoral Hernia (T. Bryant.)