WOUNDS AND WOUND-TKEATMENT. 42 a greater or less extent, new bone is not needed; the latter where greater firmness is required—at those points of the callus through which, for example, the weight of the body is transmitted. In most cases of fracture the continuity of the medullary canal is ultimately re- stored as a result of absorption in the callus, even when the displace- ment has been considerable. II. Wound-Treatment.1 The technique of wound treatment has, during the last ten or fifteen years, become more complicated by the general adoption of the antisep- tic system. Much detail work has become necessary, the exact per- formance of which is alone a guarantee of good results. It matters not, however, how great the changes in the practical application of the method, first described by Sir Joseph Lister, have been during these years, the great principle involved in it remains unchanged. It is ow- ing to this fact that the older methods of wound-treatment have at last become obsolete, and that the advocates of the open method, of the treatment by occlusion, and of other similar methods, who were for a long time opposed to the antiseptic principle, have disappeared. The theory, if not the practice, of wound treatment has, therefore, cer- tainly been simplified. Whatever may be the nature of wounds, whether they be incised, contused, lacerated, or punctured, whether they be surgically clean or infected, the principle that primary or fur- ther infection must be avoided during our manipulations will always obtain. Great, indeed, have been the modifications in the original “ aseptic method” of Lister during the years since its publication. They have been brought about by a correct recognition and a further devel- opment of the great principle involved. On a sound theoretical basis, progress in the practical application of a method must be rapid and sys- tematic, and, accordingly, the advance made in the treatment of wounds during late years forms a marked contrast to the many attempts at rational treatment before the days of universal acceptance of the germ theory as the cause of all surgical ills. When Lister first published his new method he termed it the “aseptic method,” to distinguish it from the other methods then in use, such as the open treatment of wounds, the treatment by occlusion, and the treat- ment with antiseptics,2 which were included among the “antiseptic methods.” Even at that time it had been abundantly proven that the older plans owed their successes to some antiseptic measure of which they were the unconscious exponents, and many of their failures to a lack of uniform application of the antiseptic principle. Thus, for in- stance, the open treatment, by permitting the free access of air, or more correctly of the oxygen therein contained, to wound surfaces, prevented fermentation, and by furthering evaporation and concentration of the secretions, retarded the growth of almost all forms of micro-organisms. But the opportunities for infection from other sources were so many that the good effects of these measures were simply a matter of chance, and did not become apparent with any degree of certainty. In those days the 1 For the classification of wounds and their special treatment, see Mr. Bryant’s article on Wounds, in Vol. II. 2 See Vol. II., p. 42.