377 ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. I shall briefly enumerate the following surgical affections which have been found to be commonly of filarial origin: Chylocele; varico- cele;1 helminthiasis elastica (varicose or cavernous lymphangeioma) of the groin and axilla; lymph-vesicles on the abdomen and scrotum; craw-craw; acute orchitis; abscess of the scrotum and cervical lym- phatic glands; abscess of the lymphatics of the arm and thigh; intra- pelvic abscess; peculiar steatoma of the face; venous varix; and of course all the varieties of undoubted elephantiasis Arabum. Since the worm is a native of such widely separated countries as are contained in the subjoined list, it behooves all to remember the possible presence of this hsematozoon, or lymphazoon, when investigating any case of the diseases above mentioned. It has been found and is believed to be a native of Brazil, India, Australia, Egypt, the East and South African coasts, China, the West Indies, and the Southern part of the United States of America, viz., Charleston, S. C., and Mobile, Ala. Craw-Craw.—-This disease, proved to result from the presence of filarise, attacks the negroes of the South African coast. According to O’Neill it closely resembles scabies in all its stages, appearing in the clefts between the fingers, on the front of the wrist, the back of the elbows, but seldom on the face. It is contagious, with an incubation period of about three days. Craw-craw is popularly believed to become latent upon removal to a cooler climate, as that of the Cape, only to burst out with all its old violence upon return to a tropical region. Symptoms.—Small, firm papules develop on the parts mentioned, which slowly increase to the size of pin heads. They are usually dis- crete, but sometimes accidentally assume a crescentic or annular form. In about two days vesicles replace the papules, and in forty- eight hours more are converted into pustules; these latter rapidly in- crease hi size, oftentimes merging with other contiguous pustules. As intense itching attends all stages of the affection, from scratching pus is effused, and, drying, forms large, irregular, unsightly scabs.2 Treatment.—This seems unsettled, as sulphur is of doubtful value, while O’Neill says that the natives seem to know of nothing which exerts any influence on the disease, and suggests no remedies himself. As change to a colder climate is alleged to render the disease latent, this should be tried, with sedative remedies; possibly some anthelmintic rem- edy locally employed might be useful. Chylocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Testis.-—While this may be due to any obstructive adenitis of one or more of the glands through which the lymph is returned from the testicle, causing dilatation fol- lowed by rupture of a lymphatic trunk into the tunica vaginalis testis, yet in most cases it is of filarial origin. Symptoms.—I need spend but little time on these, as they are identi- cal with those of ordinary hydrocele, with perhaps in addition some enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the groin. Tapping first re- veals the condition by giving vent to a milk-like or chylo-serous, coag- ulable fluid; in rare instances the fluid may not be even opalescent, but may appear identical with ordinary hydrocele fluid, yet on a closer ex- 1 Fayrer, Lancet, Feb. 15, 1879, p. 222. 2 O’Neill, Lancet, Feb., 1875. 4>