174 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. Furuncle.—The bacteriologist finds in the fluid of furuncle the position of the pathogenic cocci. That most usually found is the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. But all the other varieties of pus- producing cocci may be present. There can be but little doubt that they make their entrance through the sebaceous glands. We have in furuncle the evidence of the power of these microbes to produce gan- grene unaided by any of the putrefactive bacteria. Carbuncle.—This disease should no longer be called anthrax, which name should only be used to designate malignant pustule. The two diseases are entirely distinct, as proved by their special microbic origins. Both render the part susceptible to the invasion of saprophytes after their special development. As stated before, two opinions have been held with reference to the cause of carbuncle, one that it is spe- cial and unknown, the other that it has the same origin as furuncle, or, in other words, that carbuncle is an aggregation of furuncles. The latter view seems now to be established by conclusive experiments and reliable clinical observations. Modern surgery seeks in the treatment of carbuncle the destruction of the invading microbes as the first indi- cation. It will be seen, however, that as the result of clinical observa- tion alone, most surgeons have for a long while carried out this plan more or less perfectly. The points of suppuration in the hair follicles and their appendages are shown early in carbuncle, and are numerous. Some of these enlarge more rapidly than others, and present a circular opening resembling that of a furuncle. Whether we employ the expectant plan, or make crucial incisions, the destruction of the central portion of the skin is almost certain. If the microbes are destroyed early, the skin may he largely saved. To attain this object, I know of no better treatment than that proposed by a friend, the use of carbolic acid and glycerin, one part to five. Though of poisonous strength, this preparation becomes harmless when properly used, while if less strong it is inefficacious. In employing this remedy a piece of absor- bent cotton is saturated with the mixture and then drawn out and twisted. This movement expels most of the fluid and renders the cot- ton nearly dry. The openings of the carbuncle are enlarged by crucial incisions, each half an inch in length. The cotton rope is then pushed in with a probe and well packed at various points. The inflam- mation and swelling rapidly subside, and the skin is preserved. The end of the rope being left out of the opening, it is easily removed, and the dressing is renewed each day. Riedel has very recently urged the use of free incisions as the best means of preserving the skin.