4 INFLAMMATION. be due to increased sensibility from hyperaemia, and to the chemical irritation resulting from the presence of ptomaines. The fifth symptom of inflammation, the disturbance, of function, manifests itself in vari- ous ways according to the part affected. It is now a well acknowl- edged fact that inflammation does not begin spontaneously, and the idiopathic form of inflammation recognized by older writers is now not believed to occur. Theories of Inflammation. The pathology of inflammation from one point of view is also very well summarized in an editorial in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal (1892), in which the views of Cohnheim are especially empha- sized. He considers, in his lectures on General Pathology, the numer- ous theories that have been adopted to explain inflammation. The neuro-liumoral theory has had many advocates, being presented in two modified forms, an ischaemic and a paralytic. According to the former, it' is to the contraction of the afferent vessels of a part, reflexly called forth by the excitation of sensory nerves, that the slow- ing of the capillary stream is due. According to the second, it is a reflex relaxation and dilatation of the arteries that occasions the inflammatory liypersemia. Narrowing of the arteries, according to Cohnheim, can only produce anaemia, or extreme necrosis, and active liypersemia can only exceptionally produce exudation. It has been shown, besides, that parts unconnected with the remainder of the body, except by means of their principal vessels, may undergo inflammation, as in the frog the tongue may become inflamed, even when the brain and medulla oblongata are completely destroyed. The ceEular theory of inflammation presupposes an attraction of the tissues, or tissue cells, and the vessels and their contents. The tissue cells swell and enlarge, and give birth to new cells, the pus cells; an influence that Cohnheim thinks could only relate to fluids. But how the tissue cells can bring colorless or red corpuscles out of the vessels is not easily to be understood, and it can also be shown in many in- stances that not only a very marked hypersemia is present,, but also very considerable transudation before the slightest change has occurred in the tissue cells. If then inflammation begins neither in the nerve cells nor in the anatomical elements of the part, it seems to bring us to the funda- mental conception of inflammation according to Cohnheim, that it is the ex citation and consequence of a molecular alteration in the vessel walls. By this alteration, adhesion between the vessel wall and the lilood, and by consequence friction, is increased, the result being the retardation of the blood stream in the inflamed district, while the permeability, the porousness of the walls, is augmented by the molec- ular change, and this results in an increase of transudation of the albuminous contents, as well as in the admixture of colorless and red corpuscles with the transuded fluid. He does not consider that; the exit of the leucocytes depends upon spontaneous movements, but that it is a mere process of mechanical filtration. He considers the causes of inflammation to be every agenc}T by which the chemical construe-