190 AMPUTATIONS. ments, sutures, etc., and while I do not practise the complicated wash- ings recommended by some surgeons both at home and abroad—wash- ings which in their multiplicity and complicated character surpass those of the ancient Pharisees—yet I believe in the necessity of ordinary as well as of antiseptic cleanliness, and have an old-fashioned respect for soap and the nail-brush. During the operation the limb to be am- putated is kept surrounded with towels wrung out of antiseptic (1-2000 sublimate) solution, but these are kept from chilling the patient by being spread over blankets protected by India-rubber sheeting. I have not any changes to suggest in the technique of the operation of amputation in general, except that in employing catgut ligatures, which I prefer to silk under ordinary circumstances, I find that the first turn of the reef-knot is apt to slip before the second can be tied down upon it, and I therefore begin with a surgeon’s knot (see Fig. 139, Vol. I., p. 582), which keeps its place very well, and then secure it by a second knot which fixes it permanently. This cannot be done with very thick catgut, and with that is unnecessary, since then the first turn of the reef-knot can be drawn so tightly as to prevent slipping; but with the thickness of gut employed for ordinary ligatures this modified knot will be found very satisfactory. For ligating the ma- jority of vessels in an amputation I use catgut prepared with juniper- oil and alcohol, but for the main artery in a large amputation—as through the thigh, or at the shoulder-joint—chromicized catgut is pref- erable because more enduring. For suturing the stump I still employ a metallic stitch, usually of silver wire, which for large wounds I prefer to any other material; for small amputations, as of the fingers, I some- times use silkworm gut, or even fine black silk. Drainage-tubes of India-rubber are, I think, of great value in the treatment of stumps, though I feel hound to say that in an amputation of the thigh which Professor Esmarch did at my Clinic some years ago by his circular, single-incision (einschnitt) method, and in which he closed only the centre of the wound, leaving both ends open, with- out drainage-tubes, healing took place as rapidly and as perfectly as could be desired. But I think the use of the tube is a safe precaution, and I commonly place one of large calibre (one is usually sufficient) across the face of the stump, cutting it on a level with the skin, and securing both its extremities by safety-pins. In circular amputations I sometimes bring out one or both ends of the drainage-tube through perforations of the cuff above the level of the incision, which is then closely sutured. For the dressing of stumps I employ protective, a deep and a super- ficial dressing, a moderately thick layer of cotton, and a roller bandage. The use of iodoform in a fresh wound 1 think objectionable as being both unnecessary and frequently irritating. I do not pretend to say that the particular form of dressing which I am about to describe is better than those employed by other surgeons, and indeed I believe that if the principles of asepticism—that is, perfect cleanliness—and if the avoidance of irritation are carried out, the special articles used are a matter of indifference; but this dressing is simple and easily applied, and I can recommend it as entirely satisfactory. The protective (Lis- ter’s) should be large enough to cover the entire line of the wound, with a margin at each end and on both sides of at least three-quarters