DISEASES OF BONES. 474 joint. Such a case as is seen in Fig. 1635, where the pelvis was ex- tensively involved, might prove troublesome in diagnosis. But ordi- narily the general history of the case will help in differentiation. In doubtful cases one important thing must be remembered, namely, that the thought of rare diseases should he in the mind of the surgeon whenever diagnosis is not simple. More cases would probably be rec- ognized if this point were not overlooked, and our knowledge of the subject would undoubtedly be greater. The only sure test in doubtful cases is to make a puncture—under the strictest aseptic conditions—or even an exploratory incision, and to examine the contents of the cyst. Of course if this contains the characteristic liquid contents of hydatids and they are surrounded by the characteristic wall, the absence of hook- lets will not militate against the diagnosis; while the presence of hook- lets is absolutely conclusive. Treatment.—The treatment of hydatids of the bones must be of the most radical character. Temporizing or hesitation may be fatal to the patient. It is beyond doubt that many of the deaths reported from this disorder have been due to improperly conducted incisions, which were followed by access of septic material to the cavity of the sac, with rapid development of generalized septic infection of the patient. Whenever an exploratory incision is made in a case of suspected hy- datid of a bone, the operator must be prepared to proceed immediately to a radical operation. Hydatids of the bones must be thoroughly eradicated, remembering that they are usually multiple, and that the removal of a single cyst, or even several, is not sufficient, but that every particle of the diseased structure must be removed or destroyed. The exact form of eradication depends upon the situation of the morbid growth. The flat bones must be opened freely and scraped out, and perhaps treated with an application of the hot iron. Even the spinal column may be operated upon, in order to put an end to pressure upon the cord. After any operation of this kind, thorough washing out of the cavity and drainage with large drainage-tubes must be employed. In certain cases, as after spontaneous fractures of the long bones, the necessity for amputation may arise. Experience indicates that little reliance can be placed upon resection of the bones, and when joints are involved, or large parts of the bones of the limbs, it is usually necessary to amputate at some distance from the seat of disease. Actinomycosis of the Bones. The subject of actinomycosis of the bones is treated of very briefly in Vol. III. of this Encyclopaedia, and something may be added to what is there stated in regard to the manifestations of this very rare disorder. It is almost unknown except in Germany and in the northern part of Europe, although von Jaksch says that it is a dis- ease of very wide distribution, and that it is probably the cause of what is known as angina Ludovici. The first accurate description of actino- mycosis, as a parasitic disease in animals, was given by Bollinger, and Ponfick first gave a scientific description of its occurrence in man, although he classed with this disorder two cases reported by Israel;