972 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. this one are recorded, as culled from various journals. In six cases horns grew after circumcision had been performed for phimosis. Others followed or were coincident with epithelioma of the organ, and nearly every case was preceded by a wart. Baldwin records another case in a youth aged nineteen. He was circumcised for phimosis, and from a soft warty growth a horn grew which became an inch long. This was removed, but recurred again nine months subsequently, when it was once more excised and the base cauterized with nitrate of silver. It then remained absent. These horny growths occur in two forms—as plates and as horns. They are to be treated by excision, but, as shown in the last case, it is necessary to excise or destroy the base of the growth, or recurrence will take place. In some cases the horn involves the end of the penis to such an extent as to render it advisable to amputate it instead of attempting excision. This was done in Brinton’s case. Tuberculosis of the Penis.—Tubercular disease of the male genital organs usually affects the testicles, the penis itself being almost never involved, though there appear to be a few cases in which the tubercular nature of the lesion has been established with reasonable certainty. Kraske's case2 is well known. It occurred in a man aged forty-nine. There were two ulcers on the glans penis, which was amputated, when typical giant cells and tubercle bacilli were found. Kraske regarded the disease as the result of an infection through the blood, and not locally, because the disease was most marked in the deeper tissues. Another case is recorded by Malecot.3 It occurred in a Jewish hoy, fourteen years of age, who had been circumcised, as usual, eight days after birth. The ulcer surrounded the meatus and was of the size of a twenty-centime piece. Its aspect, softness, and lack of glandular en- largement, excluded hard chancre, while its smooth base, freedom from suppuration, and regularity, both of base and border, excluded chan- croid. It was not painful. The patient had for three years been suffer- ing with vesical symptoms, micturition being frequent, painful, and at times bloody. The tubercular nature of the ulcer was demonstrated by the inoculation of guinea-pigs. The patient, one year afterward, still had the ulcer in about the same condition, but in general health had somewhat improved under treatment. The occurrence of a localized tubercular lesion of the penis as the result of direct local inoculation is certainly open to doubt; both of these cases are against it. The deep character of the lesion in Kraske’s case convinced him that the infection was through the blood, and in the second case the presence of vesical disease certainly points to an infection of the genito-urinary tract which- probably antedated the ap- pearance of the glandular affection; at all events, it is just as reasona- ble, if not more so, to say that the ulcer of the glans was secondary to disease of the bladder, as it is to say that the penis was affected first and the bladder afterward. These tubercular lesions of the penis from a clinical standpoint resemble, if they are not absolutely identical with, lupus as it occurs in other parts of the body, and may be treated in a similar manner. 1 Medical News, 1887, vol. 1 i., p. 449. 2 Ziegler, Beitrage zur patliologischen Anatomie, Bd. iv., Heft 2. 3 Annales des Maladies des Organes Genito-Urinaires, p. 838, 1893.