85 OEDEMA OF THE LARYNX. Angeio-Neurotic CEdema.—Angeio-neurotic oedema may be de- scribed as a circumscribed oedema, due to a vaso-motor neurosis. There is no appearance of inflammation, and in the acute form the oedema is caused by an infiltration of the tissues with pure serum. In the chronic form the infiltration seems to be due to the exudation of the cellular elements of the blood. The swollen part gives a hard brawny feel to the touch; it does not pit on pressure, and the line of demarcation between it and the healthy tissue is distinctly marked. The tendency to this form of oedema may continue for years. The swelling may continue for weeks, but then subsiding, it again recurs at irregular intervals. Quincke 1 has fully described it, as it appears on the skin in circumscribed oedematous swellings, and it has been further noticed by Ruhl,' Strubling,3 Gottstein,4 and Osier.5 On the skin it appears as a circumscribed swelling in various parts of the body, and it is frequently accompanied by symptoms of intestinal disturbance, such as vomiting, colic, and diarrhoea. Strubling has drawn attention to its occurrence in the mucous membrane of the upper air-passages. He claims to have seen it after exposure, or the inges- tion of irritating substances, and from causes which have hitherto not been explained. It involves the mucous membrane of the palate, especially the palatine arches, and thence extends occasionally to the larynx. In acute cases, the- parts affected have the transparent swollen appearance of a serous oedema. It appears suddenly, con- tinues for a few hours and disappears as rapidly. In its chronic form, the tissues are densely infiltrated, resembling more a solid than a serous oedema. In some cases it has been noted that its disappear- ance from the throat has been followed by oedema of the skin of the face, and of the thorax. Strubling claims to have seen oedema of the larynx that followed a similar condition of the skin. The symptoms vary with the part affected. When in the upper part of the pharynx there is a feeling of fulness. When the larynx is involved there also appear the signs of laryngeal obstruction. There is no pain, and no febrile symptoms have been noticed. Cases have been noted in which the condition has proved fatal in a few hours. Strubling believes that angeio-neurotic oedema is dependent on an irritation of the mucous membrane, followed by dilatation of the blood-vessels with a transuda- tion of serum. Ruhl considers angeio-neurotic oedema to be due to some disturb- ance of the vaso-motor system having a central origin. In support of this view he cites the sudden occurrence of oedema of the skin, with dis- turbance of the intestinal canal and the general symptoms of drowsi- ness and oppression; also the frequent and sudden change of the site of the swelling, and the fact that it has been known to disappear through psychical influences. I believe that the oedema of the fauces and larynx which has been seen to follow the use of certain drugs, notably iodide of potassium, may be classed as an angeio-neurotic oedema. It may appear as the only symptom of iodism. and it may be produced by the smallest doses. 1 Monatshefte fi'ir practische Dermatologic, 1882. 5 London Medical Record, December. 1887. 3 Monatsclirift fur Ohrenbeilkunde, No. 10, 1886. 4 Die Kranklieiten des Kehlkopfs. 5 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1888. VOL. VII.—50