CARCINOMA. 287 I have added Poulsen’s figures, which are remarkable as showing a great difference in the age of married and single women when attacked by the disease. If Poulsen’s figures should he borne out by larger numbers, the fact thus demonstrated would be very interesting. The proportion of mar- ried to single women attacked by the disease is, according to Gross, about the same as that in the general population, about eighty-five per cent, being married. Poulsen shows a different result, his cases in- cluding nearly thirty per cent, in single women, the 231 cases put down as among the married including some of the patients whose condition was not noted. Child-bearing and nursing appear to have no perceptible influence upon the liability to the disease. Thus Fink, in 168 married women, found 50 who had had six or more children, and 5 who were sterile; while Williams in 98 married women found 12 sterile, 4 who had had miscarriages only, and" 14 with only one child—the difference being undoubtedly due to the greater fruit- fulness of German as compared with English women, and indicat- ing that it is unlikely that these conditions have anything to do with the causation of the disease. As an additional indication on this point I may mention that Poulsen (in the Copenhagen hospitals), besides finding nearly thirty per cent, of the patients single, found twenty- seven per cent, of the married women barren. Under the head of eti- ology, I have already spoken of the effects of traumatism and inflam- mation, and need not refer to them here. But it is worth noting that a case of carcinoma combined with tubercular mastitis has lately been put on record by Crawford. As to the situation of the tumor in the breast, Gross found in 820 cases that twenty-eight per cent, lay centrally, and forty-six per cent, lay in the upper and outer portions. I have arranged his figures in the following diagram, which shows this truth very strikingly: Superior 206 90 55 External 83 231 32 Internal 32 51 40 Inferior The two breasts are equally liable to carcinoma, and in 2717 cases (Gross, Schmidt, Fink, Rapok, Schulthess, Dietrich, Poulsen, and Wil- liams) I find the right breast affected in 47.5 per cent., and the left in 51.8 per cent, of the cases, while both breasts were diseased in 0.6 per cent. The variety of structure in carcinoma of the breast is considerable, but the proportion of frequency in which the different varieties of the disease occur is difficult to state, because authorities differ so much in their nomenclature. Gross, in 669 cases, found 87.7 per cent, of ordi- nary carcinoma, 2.93 per cent, of encephaloid, and only 7.9 percent, of scirrhus. Poulsen, on the other hand, calls 45.5 per cent, of his 154 cases scirrhus. The cystic and colloid carcinomata are very rare. Simmonds has recently made a study of the colloid form, based on two new cases with eighteen collected from surgical literature, and their compara-