857 APPENDICITIS. a variety of conditions as regards etiology. It is by far most prevalent between the ages of six and twenty, and in many cases is undoubtedly due to slight injuries, errors in diet, especially over-indulgence in im- proper articles of food, or exposure to cold, and not, as has heretofore been frequently supposed, to the fact of foreign bodies lodging in the appendix. With few exceptions the vermiform appendix is intraperitoneal, and hence appendicitis is almost always an intraperitoneal inflammation. Unless in these very exceptional cases, it is impossible to touch or reach the vermiform appendix without introducing a finger into the peritoneal cavity. Symptoms and Morbid Anatomy.—The symptoms in acute perfor- ative appendicitis are very rapid in their development; sharp pain is felt, accompanied by nausea and immediate prostration, and the pulse is rapid, reaching 120 within a few hours. When a patient becomes suddenly and dangerously ill, with symptoms of general peritonitis, the diagnosis of acute perforating appendicitis may be ventured with al- most absolute correctness, even though many of the local symptoms are absent. The conditions of collapse are present, and the patient some- times dies within twenty-four or thirty-six hours from the onset of the disease, seldom living longer than the third or fifth day, except there be surgical interference. When we consider the anatomical structure of the appendix, the method of invasion of the mucous membrane, and the subsequent lym- phatic and circulatory phenomena, they are found to be identical with similar processes occurring elsewhere in the body. Acute, perforating, fulminating appendicitis presents the most serious type of the disease, and one attended by the gravest dangers to life. The conditions found at operation, however early undertaken, are usually as follows: The appendix itself is either uniformly dark in color, or mottled; its peritoneal surface has lost its glistening appear- ance; it is thickened and often distended; the mesentery is swollen from circulatory stasis; and perforation, if it has not already occurred, is impending. The perforations may be either single and large, or multiple and small. I have removed appendices at operations that in this respect resembled a sieve. The general peritoneum is injected, and there is a reddish-brown, foul-smelling, ichorous exudate in the abdom- inal cavity. Paralysis of the intestinal walls occurs at the onset of the disease. Abdominal distention comes on early and is very great. A most important feature of this form of the disease is that at no time is there any disposition to its localization; there is no exudation of plastic lymph, or at least not sufficient to prevent general infection. The experimental introduction of large quantities of pathological organisms gives, pathologically, precisely similar conditions, and there is no great difference in the manner of infection. In other cases the process is much slower, and the degree of bacterio- logical invasion is materially less. Time has been allowed for walls of lymph to be thrown out, affording a barrier and preventing general peritoneal infection, even though the inflammation reaches a point where perforation occurs. The small intestines, the mesentery, and the omentum are all attached