INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 824 its sheath, as much more serious bleeding will result from a punctured than from a severed vessel. Failing in this, pressure by plugging with gauze for a short time will usually suffice to control the bleeding. After the pus has slowly drained away and the cavity has been emptied, it is unnecessary to wash out the pleura with an antiseptic, as absorp- tion ceases and the temperature falls as soon as perfect drainage is established. When, however, the discharge has subsided a little, and especially when the escaping matter is offensive, with a tendency to a nightly rise of temperature, the cavity may be washed out by allowing several gallons of a warm, mild antiseptic solution, such as Thiersch's fluid, to run slowly through it from a vessel held at a slight elevation. Sometimes, especially in operating on cases in which a sinus has existed for some time, permitting partial escape of the fluid, and in which the chest-wall has contracted so that the ribs overlap, as the slates on a roof, thus reducing greatly the size of the interspaces, it may be neces- sary, in order to obtain a sufficient opening for the tube and to prevent its being compressed, to excise a small portion of one or two ribs. This is easily done after exposure of the rib through the above-described incision. The removal of the periosteum is effected by a periosteotome or curved raspatory, the ribs being steadied by a pair of strong forceps, and they are then divided in two places by a small but firm saw, care being taken that this does not puncture the lung. In children cutting forceps may be employed instead of the saw, but in adults the latter is the preferable instrument, the use of the bone forceps having a tendency to unduly crush and splinter the rib. After the resected portion of the rib has been removed, and the thickened pleura cut away with scissors, the cavity should he gently explored with the finger, as an accurate knowledge may thus be obtained of its extent, and the large masses of curdy material which are often met with may thus easily be detected and extracted. Sometimes, too, the finger will break down adhesions and open up localized cavities which might otherwise have remained unopened for a length of time. This procedure is not to be advocated in all cases. If the ribs are wide enough apart, as in a well-formed chest, sufficient drainage may be obtained by incising an interspace. It seems wiser to avoid ex- cising a portion of the rib, if possible, when the pus is fetid, as absorp- tion of putrid material is said to be more likely to take place when the bone is cut across; I have, however, never seen any ill results from the procedure. On the other hand, if the ribs offer any interference to drainage, a portion should he immediately removed. The drainage- tube in all cases should be retained as long as any discharge appears; and if, after its removal, there are signs of re-accumulation—such as increased discharge, showing externally, rise of temperature, general discomfort, and thoracic pain—no time should be lost in dilating the sinus and reintroducing it. If this be delayed, the newly formed adhe- sions will give way and much time will be lost. Thoracoplasty; Estlander’s Operation.—Not infrequently, in old cases of empyema, the lung is so bound down by adhesions as the result of prolonged compression, that no amount of aid which it may receive by even perfect drainage and the partial collapse of the chest-walls will enable it to expand and allow obliteration of the cavity. This con-