hernia. 874- of intestinal colic, and when not intensified in the neighborhood of the strangulation is usually referred to the umbilical region. The symptoms of occlusion are more remote, and while very strong in a diagnostic point of view, are not of much importance practically, be- cause a diagnosis should be made and treatment instituted before the effects of obstruction are made evident. The cessation of fiecal dis- charges may not occur in intestinal obstruction for several days after the occurrence of occlusion, when the small intestine alone is involved, since the contents of the bowel below the constricted point may he evacuated. The vomiting of recently ingested food or drinks, followed by stercoraceous matter, is the last and strongest evidence of occlusion. Distention of the abdominal walls, with tympanitic resonance, is, when taken in connection with other symptoms, a strong link in the chain which makes the diagnosis conclusive. Hiccough is present in many cases, but is apt to be one of the later evidences of obstruction. Shock, that condition in which, as a result of emotion or injury, the func- tions of the nerve-centres are more or less completely suspended, is present in a varying degree in almost all cases of strangulated hernia. It is evident in the rapid and weak pulse, occasionally missing a beat, or varying in exacerbations of rapidity and slowness; in coldness of the skin, with unnatural perspiration; and in lack of facial mobility, the eyes being wide open and staring, and the only expression being that of pain and great anxiety. In omental hernia the pain is not so in- tense as in intestinal hernia, and the symptoms of occlusion are always absent. Treatment of Inguinal Hernia.—The treatment of inguinal her- nia may be considered under the following heads: 1, the reducible; 2, the irreducible (not strangulated) ; 3, strangulated. For a hernia not strangulated, the operative measures are palliative and curative; in strangulated hernia early operation is always indicated. A reducible inguinal hernia should be returned to the abdominal cavity and retained there by the constant and careful employment of a truss, or a bandage and compress. In accomplishing reduction the patient should rest upon the back with the thighs flexed upon the abdo- men and the pelvis elevated. In this position gravity carries the intes- tine and omentum toward the diaphragm, and this traction from with- in readily reduces the mass. If this should not succeed, gentle pressure with the hand will suffice. Once reduced, an effort should be made to prevent recurrence. For incomplete or slight hernia, in patients who are not compelled to do heavy work, an elastic truss is most comfortable and safe. In all other cases the steel spring truss must be worn. The pad will vary in size as the character of the rupture may require. Hard-rubber or wooden pads are preferable in the great majority of cases. A truss should be applied before leaving the recumbent posture, and should not be removed again until this posture is resumed. When ordering a truss the following rule should be observed: Describe fully the char- acter of the hernia. If the case is one of complete inguinal hernia of the left side, take a lead tape, lay one end directly over the internal ring of this side, and carry the tape across the abdomen to the right, just below the anterior superior spine of the right ilium, and across