248 TUMORS. moved by operation after live months’ growth, when it was three or four centimetres long and had caused trouble by pressure on the median nerve. Fibroma may occur in the gastro-intestinal tract. Thus Senn records a case in the rectum. Sutton has observed annular fibroma in the duodenum of a mare, and pedunculated fibrous tumors on the ex- ternal surface of the stomach of the cow, and also of the codfish. Fi- broma, by the way, is quite common in the lower animals, and is occa- sionally melanotic, especially in horses and cows, although even then it runs a benign clinical course. All of these fibromata in the intes- tinal canal are really fibromyomata. Among the curiosities of the subject we may note the great rarity of fibrous pharyngeal polypi in the female sex. Pluyette, in an ex- haustive search, was able to find only nine well-authenticated cases of the kind, notwithstanding the frequency of this affection in males. Multiple fibromata are frequent in the skin and are usually of the variety known as fibroma molluscum. Taylor has recorded a case which was under observation for many years, and which clearly showed a cycle of development and retrogression in the tumors. He says that the first appearance of the tumor is shown by a softening and slight projection of the skin at some point. Pressure on the latter renders it possible to invert the growth as it were through an apparently softened spot in the corium. As time goes on the projection becomes greater, until the tumor hangs on a sort of stalk, during which time it becomes increasingly difficult and finally impossible to invaginate it, owing ap- parently to the concentric contraction of the softened spot in the derma. The tumor then begins to shrink, its fibrous body apparently atrophy- ing until the outer sac of skin or epidermis is the only part left; this hangs for a while like an empty pouch, until it in turn shrivels and becomes a sort of wart. This involution of the molluscum is exceed- ingly interesting, and is only another instance of the contraction char- acteristic of fibrous tissue everywhere, even as a beneficent constituent of carcinomatous tumors. One question unsolved in these cases of multiple fibromata of the skin is their origin. The supposition origi- nated by Virchow and von Recklinghausen, that they always originate from the fibrous covering of the nerves, appears to gain in strength, although there are still good observers who claim that they may come from the arteries and skin-glands as well. The latest writer on this point, Goldmann, however, says that these opinions have been held only because the observers have overlooked the fact that in both glands and blood-vessels there are contained minute nerve-fibrils from the sheath of which these little tumors might have originated, while yet seeming to have come from the coimective tissue of the vessels and glands them- selves, the fibrils being too small to be detected. Fibrous tumors of the nerves, originating from their sheaths, or more properly speaking from the endoneurium, are rather uncommon tumors, and it is only recently that any satisfactory results have been obtained in their study. Let us first recapitulate the facts of the anatomical struc- ture of the nerve sheaths. The nerve fibres are each surrounded by a connective-tissue sheath, the endoneurium, and each bundle is also enveloped in a common sheath, the perineurium. Key and Retzius have demonstrated that injections of the lymphatic spaces within the perineurium never penetrate beyond it into the neighboring lymphatics,