434 INJURIES OF BONES. 1 New York Med. Journal, July 17, 1886. had a patient in whom the ligamentous union of a patella, fractured in 1884, had given way in 1887; the quadriceps was somewhat atrophied. The tubercle of the tibia was chiselled away, and attached higher up; it was still very difficult to approximate the fragments, but finally bony union was obtained, with active extension of the joint, and flexion to 90 degrees. Fowler,1 in a boy 17 years old, whose patella had been broken and closely united, but who by a fall had stretched the bond of union to 21- inches, found it difficult to bring the fragments together; he therefore made an incision 8 inches long over the front of the thigh, made four oblique cuts through the quadriceps muscle, in the shape of the letter W, and by drawing downward opened these out so as to gain enough length in the muscle. The fragments were now freshened and sutured together, with a good ultimate result. The above device is credited to MacEwen of Glasgow.. I believe the reader will obtain from the foregoing pages a just idea of the current of opinion, and of the recorded experience, on the sub- ject of the treatment of fractures of the patella. I would say that, thoroughly convinced of the value of antiseptic or aseptic methods, I feel bound to modify somewhat the views expressed in my former ar- ticle. My own personal experience has abundantly satisfied me that by these modern safeguards the risks of the operative surgery of the knee-joint are materially lessened if not wholly set aside. I have repeatedly laid the joint open and washed it out, in cases of gunshot injury, of incised wound, and of compound fracture, with entire success. For this rea- son I should not hesitate, in dealing with a limb rendered useless by the non-union of a broken patella, to advise the exposure and suturing of the fragments. Nor should I dread the use of the subcutaneous cir- cumpatellar suture, in cases of slight separation, if a speedy cure were specially desirable. But the pivot of the whole matter lies in the absolute accuracy and completeness of the asepsis. Without this, the risks are unchanged. Any defect or imperfection in this regard, whether from ignorance, from carelessness, or from mere inadvertence, may lead to the most serious disaster. The surgeon, therefore, who opens the knee-joint, or operates in its close neighborhood, does so in absolute dependence upon the thoroughly aseptic condition of the parts concerned, as well as of his hands, instruments, appliances, and dressings; and the risk of fail- ure in this essential point should forbid the recognition of operative measures as the routine practice in simple fracture of the patella. For I cannot agree with those who assert that the results obtained by the less brilliant methods are on the whole unsatisfactory. During thirty years of hospital and private practice, it has often occurred to me to have three or four cases of this kind under my care at one and the same time; and I am very sure that some at least of them would have again sought relief, if they had found themselves permanently crippled. Of my private cases I can say positively that not one has failed to get good use of the limb. I have repeatedly seen old frac- tures of the patella which, according to the patients themselves, gave no trouble. And in view of the frequency of these injuries, it seems to