45 WOUND-TREATMENT. their presence. We can understand that in such operations as the opening of large joints or the cranial cavity, even the entrance of very few germs might be the source of much mischief, and it will not be amiss, on this account, to avoid increasing the number already in sus- pension by unnecessary manipulations in the operating room shortly before an operation. If we take this precaution, we may safely disre- gard the possibility of infection from this source in all surgical work. It has been estimated that about sixty or seventy germs are deposited upon a wound surface of sixteen square inches, in the course of half an hour, at von Bergmann's Clinic, in Berlin, during the clinical hours. Remembering how few of these are pathogenic, and remembering also the power of healthy tissues to inhibit the development of germs, espe- cially when present in small numbers only, the relative insignificance of their presence will become apparent. The dangers from this source are small when compared with those that threaten from infection when im- perfectly sterilized instruments and hands are brought in contact with wound surfaces. A minute quantity of pus in the furrows of a forceps, or under the nails of the operator, may contain many thousands of germs, and very likely of the pathogenic variety. It is further evident that the probability of an infection is greater when impure objects are introduced and brought into frequent and close contact with wound surfaces, than when a few germs settle very superficially on the latter. The most important factor in wound-treatment is, therefore, the avoidance of contamination by direct contact. All improvements in our methods must be based on this one consideration: how to render aseptic in the most convenient manner all objects which come in contact with wounds. Disinfection of Hands and Field of Operation.—In 1882, Wat- son Cheyne wrote: “ It is unnecessary to wash the skin with soap and water, or with alcohol or ether, as is often done in Germany.” This applied to both the hands of the operator and the seat of operation. Cheyne assumed that the affinity of carbolic acid for the skin caused it to penetrate the latter, where it would then destroy the germ? lying in the folds and the grease of the epidermis. Although such an opinion was expressed by one most competent to judge, I think we shall not err in assuming that even at that time most surgeons began the disinfection of their hands and the seat of operation by a thorough washing with soap and water, before submitting them to the action of an antiseptic. It was, nevertheless, the opinion then held that a thor- ough rubbing with a 1-20 or 1-40 carbolic solution was more effective than washing with soap and water, whereas to-day we are ready to assume the reverse. In 1885, the experimental method was for the first time applied to determine the germicidal power of various anti- septics after thorough washing with soap and water. Carbolic acid, boric acid, corrosive sublimate, and other disinfectants were tested by Forster in these experiments with culture-media. He came to the con- clusion that corrosive-sublimate solutions alone prevented the develop- ment of germs. Shortly afterwards Kiunmel, and somewhat later Fuerbringer, repeated these experiments in a more satisfactory manner. They directed attention to the folds and fissures of the skin, and more especially to the subungual space, as places which harbor impurities,