ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. BY ALBERT I. BOUFFLEUR, B.S., M.D., PROFESSOR OF PRACTICAL ANATOMY IN THE NORTH-WESTERN UNIVERSITY WOMAN’S MEDICAL SCHOOL; LECTURER ON ANATOMY IN THE RUSH MEDICAL COLLEGE; SURGEON TO COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL, CHICAGO. The statement made by Professor Lyman, in the article on Anaes- thetics and Anaesthesia in Volume I. of this work, that ‘'it is impossi- ble to employ any anaesthetic agent without in some small degree, at least, approaching the confines of danger,” has been supported by the results of experimental research upon animals, and by clinical experience upon man, during the past decade. While the relative safety of the different anaesthetic agents has not been changed, many phenomena have been carefully investigated, conclusions have been harmonized, the value of some danger signals seems to have been conclusively set- tled, and the treatment of serious conditions has been changed from a mere general routine to a more rational method of practice. From an historical standpoint, recent evidence shows conclusively that the honor of the first use of the principal anaesthetic substances— ether and chloroform—belongs to two American physicians. The data presented by Dr. L. B. Grandy 1 seem to prove beyond a doubt that to Dr. Crawford W. Long, of Jefferson, Ga., belongs the honor of having first used sulphuric ether for surgical anaesthesia, while a committee of the Chicago Medical Society, after a thorough investigation of the subject, decided, for reasons given in its report,2 that Dr. Samuel Guthrie, of Sackett’s Harbor, N. Y., was the first user of chloroform. The agreeable odor, concentration, rapidity of action, rarity of bad after-effects, and ease of administration of chloroform are so much in contrast with the usual effects of ether, that practically all experi- mentation and observation have been conducted tvith the hope that, with a full knowledge of its effects, means of fortification or restora- tion would be developed which would enable the surgeon to employ this potent substance with comparative safety. Three of the most impor- tant series of experiments have been conducted under the direction of Surgeon Lieutenant-Colonel Lawrie, for the Nizam of Hyderabad, to de- termine the phenomena and dangers attending the inhalation of chloro- form. The conclusions of the two Hyderabad chloroform commissions may be summarized as folloAvs:— Inhalation of chloroform freely diluted with air causes a gradual fall of blood- pressnre—providing the animal is not prevented from breathing. 1 Virginia Med. Monthly, 1893. 2 Annual of Universal Medical Sciences, 1892 ; Hare, Practical Therapeutics. (Go)