SURGERY OF THE VENTRICLES. 641 corded by Thiriaiy Andry,I 2 Phocas,3 Mayo Robson,4 * Manny,6 Walker,0 and others. But on the other hand Broca 5 reports a case with con- tracture of the left arm in which the right ventricle was drained for two weeks, and in which the operation was followed by entire relief of the contracture, so that the child could use its arm; by the disap- pearance of the strabismus; and by the beginning of the ability to walk at the time the case was last seen, six weeks after the operation. In a case recorded byr Phocas there was improvement, and the child was liv- ing four months afterward. In addition to this, KocherMias reported two cases of recovery after operation for porencephalus, which are es- pecially worthy of notice. The first patient, a child of 15, had a fall at one and a half years of age. At four, attacks of unconsciousness developed, and subsequently epileptic attacks, begin- ning in the left arm, which became paretic. At the operation, Feb. 26, 1889, the skull was trephined in the occipital region, and a large porencephalic cavity was opened, laying open the lateral ventricle, so that the choroid plexus was seen. Drainage, with copious flow of cerebro-spinal fluid, was kept up for four weeks. The flow' altered greatly with the position of the child, and it is remarkable that as an aid to evacuation of the fluid the head was bent forward, so that the air was sucked into the sac, and on replacing the head in the vertical position the fluid' escaped freely, yet no infection seems to have followed. At first arrest of drain- age caused renewed attacks, but finally the fistulous track of the drainage tube healed, and the child entirely recovered. The second patient, a girl of 17, had her head injured by forceps at her birth. Her epileptic attacks set in at 3 years of age, as many as two to three in a day. A large porencephalic cavity was found in the anterior part of the brain, leading into the lateral ventricle, and the corpus striatum was seen. Two hundred cubic centimetres of fluid were evacuated, and three months afterward the drain had closed and the girl had recovered. I have seen but a single case operated on,9 one with athetoid move- ments, in which the patient died after the operation, of scarlet fever. The porencephalic condition of the brain was not recognized until the operation revealed it. In acute hydrocephalus, the case of Mayo Robson 10 is the first one which has ended in recovery" after operation. Hahn 11 reports a still more noteworthy case, of a butcher 35 years of age, who suffered from entire blindness in one eye, with impairment of hearing and smell, loss of memory, and headache. Cysticercus was suspected, and he was tre- phined in the frontal region. The conclusion was reached that the veryr marked increasing bulging of the brain through the opening was due to intraventricular pressure, whereupon the ventricle was punc- tured with a hypodermic needle, and 120 cubic centimetres of watery fluid were withdrawn. The brain substance receded at once, and re- covery was complete, except for monocular blindness. Soderbaum 12 has reported the case of a girl, almost in a comatose condition, with facial palsy, convulsions, and vomiting, whom he trephined, making I Broca, Rev. de Chir., 1891, p. 37. . 2 Progres Med., 1892, No. 9. 3 Rev. Mens, des Malad. de l’Enfance, Fev., 1892. 4 Loc. cit. 5 Rev. de Chir., 1893, p. 388. 6 Med. and Surg. Reporter, vol. Ixiii.. p. 216. 7 Loc. cit. 8 Deutsche Zeitschr. f. Chir., Bd. xxxvi., 1893, S. 72. 9 Willard and Lloyd, Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, April, 1892. 10 Loc. cit. II Twenty-second Cong, of German Surgeons, 1893; Med. News, May G, 1893, p. 500. 12 Annals of Surgery, 1892, vol. xv., p. 467. VOL. VII.—41