84 DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. The general condition of the patient corresponds to the intensity and extent of the local erysipelatous affection. The temperature (Fig. 1583) suddenly, with acute violence, goes up to 104° F., or more, accom- panied by one or several chills, and just as quickly sinks again to the normal, when the affection is over. As long as the erysipelas subsists, the temperature at the height of the attack varies mostly between 104° and 106°. Sometimes, immediately after coming down to the normal, it rises again at once to its former height, which is usually thought to indicate a recurrence, a term which does not quite cover the facts. The other symptoms are those which usually accompany any high fever; thus, the region of the stomach and liver are sensitive to the touch, and there are lack of appetite, nausea and vomiting, great thirst, a furred, dry tongue, etc. The spleen is often enlarged, the region of the kidneys is not rarely tender to the touch, the urine is mostly dark colored, and contains albumin, blood or gall-pigment, and micrococci. The quantity of urine is lessened. A fatal result in erysipelas either is due to the general poisoning of the system by ptomaines, or ensues because a vital organ, as for instance the cavity of the skull, has been attacked. It is easy to understand that the duration of erysipelas cannot be to any extent uniform. There are cases of erysipelas, with no doubt in the diagnosis, which last twenty-four hours or even less, while others persist for several weeks, with changing intensity and so-called recur- rences, sometimes even the same places being invaded and covered again and again by the inflammation. The average duration is from six to eight days, and every case of erysipelas lasting longer than two weeks is, as Billroth says, an exception. Besides the more frequent complications, as formation of abscess, etc., we have to mention others of more or less rarity. Of special interest are those of the eye, which may occur in manifold forms, as, for instance, impairment of acuteness of vision, transient blindness (very rare), panophthalmia with atropli}’ or suppuration of the bulb—- which occurs particularly when an erysipelas of the face attacks the orbital cellular tissues—turbidity of the optic media, iritis, ulcerative processes of the cornea, retinitis, and optic neuritis with atrophy of the optic nerve. Erysipelas of the head is sometimes complicated by catarrhs and suppurative processes of the auditory tract, inflamma- tions and suppurations of the parotid, difficulty in swallowing, and occasionally diphtheritic lesions of the pharynx. The so-called erysipe- latous pneumonia must be strictly discriminated from ordinary pneu- monia and bronchitis in erysipelas; while the latter, especially bronchitis, are of very common occurrence in any severe erysipelas, the so-called erysipelatous or wandering pneumonia has, very likely, no connec- tion whatever with that disease. It seems as if the clinical similarity in the course of the skin-affection and that of this special malady of the lungs had led to the name, without any real reference to its etiology. Of course, it cannot be entirely denied that in some cases erysipelas of the pharynx may progress downward in its course, and attack the bronchi and, in time, the capillaries of the lungs. If we mention the occurrence of icterus (jaundice), caused by gastric disorders or occurring in its haematogenous form in severe cases of ery- sipelas, and nephritis, which in the very worst cases may lead to urae-