736 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. The pathology and causation of this torturing disease is not under- stood. It lias been asserted that obliterating endarteritis of the nutrient vessels of the nerve is often present,1 and evidences of sclerosis of the nerves and ascending neuritis have been found. (Fig. 1708.) The suggestion that syphilis may be an agency in the etiology seems plausible if endarteritis is the factor of importance. The conditions giving rise to the pain, whatever they are, may be situated in the deep origin of the nerve fibres in the pons and medulla, in the sensor}7 root before it reaches the Gasserian ganglion, in the ganglion, or in the nerve trunks or branches. It is possible that the nerves may be sub- jected to pressure at their foramina of exit from the skull, because of a relatively small orifice, or of swelling due to periostitis or perineuritis. Peripheral causes may be cicatrices, tumors, diseased teeth, foreign bodies, retained secretion in the frontal sinus, and similar irritating lesions. The operative treatment will be modified by the character of the supposed etiology. Every organ should be examined, and every ascertainable cause of toxic, reflex, or functional irritation should be removed. The disease is one of middle or advanced age, and is characterized by attacks of more or less periodic shooting pain, exceedingly severe, and radiating from the supra-orbital, infra-orbital, or mental foramen. During the intervals between these paroxysms there may be no pain at all, or irregular painful sensations which are quite insignificant as com- pared with the epileptiform neuralgic paroxysms. The disease usually attacks one side of the face only, and may be located in one, two, or all three divisions of the trifacial nerve. Gradually, in the course of months or years, the paroxysms become more frequent and the inter- vals shorter. The patient finally becomes dominated with the dread of causing an outbreak of pain, which is started by talking, eating, coughing, or having anything touch the skin over the distribution of the peripheral branches of the nerve. Unexpected noises or draughts of air may incite a seizure. Facial contortions, at the time the lancinat- ing pain occurs, as well as ptosis, strabismus, and clonic spasm of the muscles moving the lower jaw or head, may occur from secondary im- plication of motor nerves. Hyperaemia or tumefaction of the face, lachrymation, sweating, and other vascular and secretory symptoms may occur on the affected side of the face and mouth. Medicinal treatment is of service in the milder cases, and in the early stages of those which finally require operative measures. Many rem- edies such as quinine, chloral, cocaine, arsenic, aconite, antipyrine, gelsemium, and nitroglycerin have been used with varying success, as have local applications of menthol, croton-chloral, and belladonna. Nitroglycerin, sodium nitrite, and similar drugs seem specially in- dicated in view of the investigations of Dana and Putnam pointing to obliterative endarteritis as a possible cause of the disease. Great relief to the patient is afforded by excision of the nerves affected, but the pain usually returns in a few months or years. The comfort experienced after neurectomy is, however, so immediate and so great that the operation should be performed as soon as the inefficiency of medicinal treatment is established. Thus the pain-habit and the grave disturbances of health, due to years of agonizing neuralgia, may be de- 1 G. L. Dana, Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease, No. 1, 1891.