430 INJURIES OF BONES. Mansell Moullin1 has reported the case of a boy aged 15, who had a vertical fracture through his epiphysis, which united by bone; a slight obliquity of one fragment caused pressure upon the popliteal artery, which gave way, and suppurative arthritis of the knee led to amputa- tion a year afterward. On maceration, the epiphysis separated at the line of junction with the shaft. Fractures of the Patella. During the last ten years the additions to the literature of this sub- ject have been very voluminous, chiefly with reference to methods of treatment and their results. Two cases are reported in which the patella has been excised; in one, by Dodd,2 for disease, and in the other, by Altliam,3 for compound com- minuted fracture. Both patients recovered with useful limbs; so that it would seem that the bone is not indispensable. A Russian surgeon, Geier, is said4 to have met with an instance of nearly longitudinal fracture of this bone by muscular action, in a man who made a great effort to lift a heavy sack. There is no mention of the treatment pursued, nor of the result. A unique case has been recorded by Parke.5 A miner, aged 22, had his leg caught between two cars, so that the patella was split vertically from side to side, the anterior half remaining attached to the ligamen- tum patelke, while the posterior was drawn upward by the quadriceps; so that there seemed to be a bone of double the normal length, and half the normal thickness. Dressings were applied to correct the dis- placement, and at the time of the report a good result seemed probable. In a case recorded by Clarke6 a man, aged 28, struck his knee against a step; the internal semilunar cartilage was found to be loosened, and in operating for its suture, it was noted that a piece of the cartilage on the under surface of the patella had been knocked off; it floated up into view, and was found to fit accurately to the abraded surface. Alderson7 describes a specimen taken from a man who died of apo- plexy, having broken his knee-cap twenty-three years before; he had been treated with pads and adhesive strips, and a gum-and-chalk band- age; the bond of union between the fragments was chiefly ligamentous, but in its centre there was a complete bridge of bone. The extent of separation of the fragments is not stated. One of the adverse conditions met with is illustrated in a case re- ported by Gem.8 In a man aged 60, the fragments could not be prop- erly brought together; on his death, three months after the accident, the knee-joint was found to contain three ounces of clotted blood, which pushed up the fragments and kept them wholly apart. 4e serie, tome x., 1885, p. 228; Reverdin, Revue de la Suisse Romaine, 15 Mai, 1886; Hutchinson, Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, vol. ii., 1888; John H. Packard, Annals of Gynaecology and Paediatrics, Nov., 1890; John H. Owings, Medical Record, Jan. 31, 1891; McDiarmid, Northern Lancet and Pharmacist, April, 1892. 1 Lancet, Nov. 18, 1887. 2 British Med. Journal, March 22, 1884. 3 Ibid., April 9, 1887. 4 Edinbui'gh Med. Journal, Feb., 1890. 5 New York Med. Journal, March 18, 1893. 6 Trans, of the Pathological Society of London, 1892. ’ British Med. Journal, April 23, 1887. 3 Ibid., Sept. 1, 1883.