ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. 589 the motor region and a few others, has distinctly localizing symptoms at an early stage. Abscess, on the contrary, although it may begin long after an injury, when once it has started follows an acute course. Moreover the ordinary causes of abscess, such as aural disease, trauma- tism, pulmonary disorders, etc., will commonly not be present in cases of tumor. Optic neuritis, on the other band, is almost always present in tumor, far more frequently than in abscess. Again, the common locations of abscess are either the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or the cere- bellum, but tumors are comparatively rare in these two situations. In other parts of the brain, on the contrary, abscess is rare and tumor much more common. The temperature is not apt to rise in tumor, but in abscess is apt to show a prolonged subnormal fall. In syphilis, tumor is much more common than abscess. Treatment of Intracranial Abscess.—Dupuytren, Detmold, More- house, and others evacuated abscesses of the brain many years ago, but the modern surgery of these cases has arisen during the last ten years, since cerebral localization now enables us to diagnosticate, local- ize, and therefore reach such abscesses with comparative accuracy. As soon as the existence and location of an intracranial abscess have been determined, operation should be instantly resorted to, since if let alone all such cases end in death. The operation cannot possibly be more dangerous than the abscess, and although a large number will die on account of the extensive injury attending the lesion, yet every patient rescued is one rescued from the grave. The head should be shaved and disinfected, as described under the head of “Technique,” and the trephining should be done at a point de- termined by the rules of cerebral localization rather than by the scar or the history of the lesion. Of course if there is a fistula discharging pus, this will lead directly to the abscess. The dura having been opened and the brain exposed, it will bulge to a considerable extent through the opening. The normal pulsation of the brain will be absent. To determine where the abscess is we may resort to puncture of the brain. For this purpose the grooved director is the best instrument to use. The hypodermic needle and the knife have both been used, but with either there is considerable danger of wounding the vessels, a danger which with the director is absent. This should be thrust, gently and carefully, straight forward into the brain in the chosen direction, and may safely be introduced to a depth of two or two and one-half inches, unless the abscess be previously reached. If no pus is found, the director should be withdrawn as nearly as possible in the line in which it entered, and a second puncture made in another direction. As soon as the abscess is reached, an incision should be made into it with a knife, and the opening should be enlarged by a pair of haemo- static forceps, which are to be introduced with the blades closed and drawn out with them separated to a proper degree. The sharp spoon should then be used to remove the granulation tissue; but care should be taken not to do any unnecessary damage to the healthy brain. The abscess cavity is next washed out with a boric-acid solution, and a rubber drainage-tube is inserted. The tube should be brought out through an opening in the scalp, and should be secured to it by a stitch. The bone should not be replaced. If the first trephine open-