246 TUMORS. by Gay is important. A congenital tumor appeared in a child’s foot, was partially removed, and grew again. It was seen by another sur- geon, who with the history of recurrence naturally supposed himself in the presence of a malignant growth, and amputated the fore-part of the foot; but the pathological examination proved it to be an easily re- movable lipoma, the recurrence evidently having been caused by im- perfect removal at the first operation. [Many years ago the editor saw a case of plantar lipoma successfully operated on by the late Prof. Henry H. Smith.] Analogous to these lipomata of the palm and sole are the fatty growths which occur in the tendon-sheaths, of which five cases are on record (Haumann, Sprengel, Haeckel, Kurz, and Sendler). The pero- nei and extensor communis digitorum of the toes, the extensors of the thumb and fingers, and the flexors of the fingers were the tendons affected. The disease was symmetrical in three cases; the patients varied from ten to twenty-seven years of age, and appeared to be more or less tuberculous. In several cases the tumors were arborescent, like the fatty growths from the villi of the synovial membranes of joints found in arthritis and tuberculous joint disease, and it is highly probable that they were of tuberculous origin, although no evidence of this could be found on microscopical examination. The tendons were as a rule not affected, although the fatty masses were more or less attached to them, but in two cases they were somewhat thinned. The fatty masses in all but one case seemed to come from the meso-tendons or vinculae, and to be adherent to the tendons but not to the synovial sheaths, al- though the latter were greatly distended. In several instances the dis- ease extended above the annular ligament, and it was impossible to make a diagnosis from tenosynovitis, especially as the fat gave a crep- itation very closely resembling that of rice-like bodies. There is some probability at least that this affection is really a peculiar form of tuber- culous inflammation, or a fatty degeneration of previously existing tubercular or inflammatory deposits. Lipomata are sometimes found in the scrotum, as outgrowths of the spermatic cord, and Hutchinson, Brossard, and Koch have of late placed such cases on record. Park’s case of lipoma surrounding the testicle is probably to be included here. Pedunculated and even broad-based lipomata are found in the joints, growing under the serous membrane, especially in the knee. Schmolck and Wagner, Lauenstein, and Weir have recently reported a number of such cases. Schmolck has especially called attention to the fact of the occurrence with tuberculous arthritis of the arborescent lipoma which had already been observed in rheumatic arthritis. As curiosities, the retro-mammary lipoma in a three-year-old boy, recorded by Lobker, the lipoma of the broad ligament successfully removed by laparotomy by Pernice, and that resembling a tail in the sacral region, reported by Bartels, should be noted. Lipomata have been found in pedunculated form in the interior of the bowel, and Link removed one successfully which had protruded from the rectum. Virchow’s case of lipoma occurring under the mucous membrane of the stomach is of course well known. The sucking-pad (“ Saugpolster”) of the cheek has been known to be the seat of lipomatous growth.