708 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. Fie:. 1703 Mode of Applying Chisel to Mastoid. ployment of these instruments. In the first place, the chisel should not be held at or near a right angle to the surface of the skull, but in such a a manner as to form an oblique angle with it (Fig. 1703). The bevelled edge should be kept uppermost. It is safer to remove the bone in small chips. Light blows of the mallet, frequent- ly repeated, are better than a few heavy ones. When softened bone, or the cellular bone structure peculiar to the central part of the mastoid process, is reached, A^olk- mann’s spoons will be found more efficacious and safer than the chisel. Frequent probing of the sides and bottom of the excavation is a very necessary procedure, if the operator wishes to get early information of the proximity of the lateral sinus, of an abscess cavity, or of the mastoid antrum. On reaching the latter the surgeon should take particular care not to push any stray chip or fragment of bone into the middle ear. It is scarcely possible to lay down any fixed rule in regard to the amount of bone substance that should be removed at the operation: surgeons are unanimous in regard to the necessity of removing all carious and softened portions of bone tissue. A few authorities insist upon the desirability of cutting away, in the majority of cases, a large part of the tip of the mastoid process, as other- wise a separate and isolated collection of pus in this part of the bone may be overlooked. Such a rule seems to me to be too sweeping in its char- acter. It is enough, it seems to me, if we restrict the adoption of this plan to those cases in which the symptoms, before the operation, have pointed to the spread of the mastoid inflammation to the tissues along the side of the neck. In all other cases we shall have done all that is required of us when we have established a broad channel down to the mastoid antrum, and have removed all bone substance that is carious or that seems to be unnaturally softened. Dangers of the Operation.—The possible wounding of the lateral sinus is the only serious danger that may be encountered. But only a reckless operator is likely to seriously injure this fairly tough vein when it is not softened by disease. If, however, its wall has been thinned in consequence of ulcerative action, it may easily be broken through by even a careful operator. On the other hand, the wounding of the facial nerve in the vicinity of the antrum is an accident that may very readily occur. It is therefore important not to indulge in instru- mental manipulations, scraping the bone, etc., in this cavity, unless we are perfectly sure that such interference is necessitated by the carious condition of the part. What I have said in regard to the lateral sinus, applies equally well to other portions of the dura mater; the danger of wounding it is small. Opening into the Groove for the Lateral Sinus, or into the Cranial Cavity at Some Other Point.-—-When, in the course of the operation, carious or even blackened bone is encountered, it is our clear duty to remove it, even if by so doing the dura mater or the wall of the lateral sinus be exposed to view. But it is not so easy to formulate any definite rule about laying bare the lateral sinus in cases in which carious bone or blackened bone (that is, bone in which venous stasis has taken place) is not encountered in the course of the ordinary mastoid oper-