G02 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 3 Med. Cliir. Trans., 1885, vol. lxviii., p. 243. have been provided, and the sinus should be immediately plugged with them. If a clot is found it will be apt to he excessively foul, and the sinus must be freed from this septic mass by a small spoon or cu- rette. The sinus should then be disinfected thoroughly. This cleans- ing and disinfection may have to be extensive. To do any good it must evidently be coextensive with the infected and infecting clot. We must therefore continue to curette the sinus until free hemorrhage shows that all the clot has been removed. Packing of the sinus after its free disinfection will easily arrest the bleeding. Parkin1 boldly but wisely curetted as far as the torcular Heropliili and saved his patient. In one of Ballance's cases 2 the lateral sinus came away as a slough. It must he remembered that one sinus may be the seat of thrombosis as far as the torcular without involving that of the oppo- site side, since the two lateral sinuses are not usually continuous. The right sinus at the torcular is usually continuous with the superior longitudinal sinus, and the left with the straight sinus, while a separate sinus or a small cross branch connects the two lateral sinuses. In St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum is a skull with a groove for the sinus on only one side (Ballance). This cleansing of the sinus, it must be re- membered, can do no harm, since the blood current is already arrested by the existing clot, the circulation being carried by other venous channels. Sometimes ligation of the sinus would be proper. The internal jugular vein should next be exposed in the neck and ligated at a point below the thrombus, the extent of which can usually be determined by touch. This step is of the greatest importance, as, if done sufficiently early and sufficiently low down, it will prevent ex- tension of the clot into the lungs. This involvement of the lungs is the greatest danger which threatens the patient. If they become in- fected the case is hopeless. The vein should then be cut above the ligature and the upper end should be attached to the skin, the vein and the sinus being washed out as thoroughly as possible in order to arrest the septic process. Tumors of the Brain. Until 1885 no attempt had been made accurately to locate or remove a tumor of the brain. Prior to that year the diagnosis of the presence of a tumor was fairly clear in most cases, but to locate it exactly was (and unfortunately in many cases still is) difficult and uncertain, and its removal was regarded as impossible. When, therefore, Bennett and Godlee3 reported that they had successfully located and removed a tumor not visible on the cerebral cortex, the surgical world was startled. Since then a large number of tumors have been removed, a considerable number sought for and unfortunately not found, and several found and not removed. Of the patients from whom brain tumors have been re- moved over two-thirds have recovered. Causes.—The causes of tumors of the brain are as a rule unknown. A number of cases have been reported in which injury has been thepre- 1 Lancet, 1893, vol. i.. p. 522. ■ Ibid., 1890, vol. i., p. 804.