INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE ( 967 ) GENITAL ORGANS. BY GWILYM G. DAVIS, M.D. Univ. Penn a. and Gottingen, M.R.C.S. Eng. SURGEON TO THE GERMAN HOSPITAL AND TO ST. JOSEPH’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Injuries and Diseases of the Penis. The most severe cases of injury to the male genital organs are those occasioned by the patient being caught in revolving machinery. Kap- peler1 has collected nine cases including two of his own. The great loss of skin in these injuries is followed by the formation of such an amount of scar tissue as to impair the functional value of the organ. Kappeler says that if sufficient of the internal layer of the prepuce remains to allow of its attachment to the skin of the scrotum or pubes, then recovery occurs without loss of either urinary or genital functions. If, however, the skin is so deficient as to require a plastic operation in order to unite it to the prepuce, then, although the penis may perform its function, it will be dwarfed. If the membrane is entirely destroyed or absent, hard cicatrices form and act as barriers to coition. Under these circumstances transplantation of skin is apt to be both difficult and unsatisfactory, as gangrene of the flaps almost always occurs. If the scrotum is entirely gone the testicles may be drawn up under the skin of the pubes, or, if healing is delayed, they may be so bound down by cicatrices that pressure may require their removal. In both of Kappeler’s cases coition was possible, but azoospermia existed, although there was no atrophy of the testicles. Luxation of the Penis.—A peculiar case of scrotal luxation of the penis is recorded by Malenovsky.2 It occurred in a married peasant thirty years of age. While busy about a thrashing machine, he was caught between a revolving horizontal bar and its straps, and thrown over, the right half of his loose and thick trousers being entangled and tightly stretched, and violently dragging along all the integument of the penis which was jammed between the garments and the thigh. When examined he had a complete circular rupture of the foreskin around the corona glandis, another laceration near the scroto-penile fold, and displacement of the penis under the scrotal skin. 1 Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie, Dec., 1885. 2 Khirurgitchesky Vestiuk, 1889, p. 697. Abstract in Aunals of Surgery, vol. xi., p. 291 (from which this account is taken).