INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 8G4 pared for any and every possible complication. The cavity must be thoroughly drained after simple enucleation of the tumor, as well as when the kidney is removed with the growth, either by full-sized drain- age tubes or by tampons of iodoform gauze. The after-treatment is the same as after other cases of abdominal section. Intestinal Sutures and Anastomosis. A trustworthy digest of the multitude of methods proposed for the union of intestines by resection and anastomosis would exceed by far the necessary limitations of this article, and I shall therefore claim a certain latitude in the selection and presentation of those which have appealed more directly to my surgical judgment and personal expe- rience. In the first place, it may be said that of all the numerous and often fantastic methods of intestinal suture devised before 1880, none deserve especial mention other except those of Lembert, Czerny, and Halstead. A fuller acquaintance with the practical application of these methods will prove a revelation to many who have been disposed to question their utility. Success in intestinal surgery depends very largely upon manual dex- terity, far more than upon the special method employed. There are no short or easy roads by means of which one can arrive at proficiency. A certain amount of experimental surgery must be done by all who enter this field of surgery. He who undertakes the union of resected intestines by simple suture for the first time after having completed an otherwise severe operation, deserves no greater success than he is likely to achieve—namely, the death of his patient. Two methods of union of intestines are employed, that by simple suture, and that by the use of foreign bodies, such as vegetable or animal plates, rings, or metal buttons. All things being equal, the first method seems at once the more attractive, but certain disad- vantages are found to exist which, to the minds of many, are contra- indications to its employment. The time required to effect union by suture alone has been urged as an objection with much persistency. Some writers assert that an hour at least is required to perform a cir- cular enterorrhaphy, time that can rarely be afforded with safety to the patient; but I am convinced through practical demonstration that such an operation can be performed in half the time indicated. Given a patient in moderately good condition and in the hands of a skilful amesthetist, circular enterorrhaphy can be performed by a surgeon of reasonable skill without greatly increasing the shock. The danger of gangrene and ulceration, with subsequent perforation at the point of suture, is another objection which has been raised, but it may be an- swered that this misfortune occurs also when other methods are em- ployed. A defective technique is responsible for the accident in the majority of cases. Operating in tissues which through inflammatory processes have a lessened vitality, or drawing sutures too tightly, will account very often for the disastrous consequences. From an experience with all methods, I find it very difficult to rid myself of the belief that resection and anastomosis by simple suture is