CIRCULAR ENTERORRAPHY AND LATERAL ANASTOMOSIS. 899 1 Page 89. in the light of further experience be revised. To do so interferes so materially with the circulation in the adjoining parts of the intestine as to endanger sloughing of the resected extremities; it is safer merely to cut the mesentery in the line of its attachment to the gut, and ligate it in sections to prevent hemorrhage, then allowing it either simply to pucker up, or folding it gently upon itself. To the 186 cases of en- terectomy and colectomy tabulated in Vol. VI.,11 have been able to add 151 since recorded, the whole 337 giving 187 recoveries and 137 deaths, the result in 13 being unknown. The mortality of determined cases is therefore somewhat over forty-two per cent. Circular Enterorraphy and Lateral Anastomosis. When it is resolved to attempt restoration of the continuity of a resected bowel, either as an immediate sequel to enterectomy or for the relief of an artificial anus, the surgeon has two operations to choose from, viz., end-to-end suture (circular enterorrhaphy) and the procedure introduced by Professor Senn and very variously modified by other sur- geons, and known as lateral anastomosis. The objections to the first- named operation, as formerly practised, were the time consumed in its performance, which sometimes seriously prejudiced the prospect of re- covery, and the difficulty of obtaining close and accurate adjustment; hence the introduction of Professor Senn’s method was hailed, and justly so, as furnishing a plan which could be easily and quickly exe- cuted, and which satisfactorily guarded against the risks of faecal ex- travasation. As originally practised, this method consisted in approxi- mating the sides of the two portions of bowel by plates of decalcified hone, previously introduced, and armed with ligatures which were car- ried through the intestinal walls and were tied together so as to hold these firmly in contact. The walls were then incised through fenestrae in the plates, so as to establish an anastomotic channel for the intesti- nal contents, and the ends of bowel were separately and carefully closed with sutures. The boneplates ultimately became softened and dis- solved, and spontaneously disappeared. Various substitutes for the decalcified boneplates have been employed by other surgeons, Penrose, Brokaw, Ashton, and Baldy using india- rubber, Stamm cartilage, and Robinson rawhide. Extemporized plates of raw potato and turnip have been used by Dawbarn and Von Baracz. Sachs has employed bone plates clamped together in the form of a per- forated shirt stud, and Murphy uses perforated metal buttons, provided with a concealed spring to keep them closely approximated after adjust- ment. Abbe, Weir, and Halsted, on the other hand, dispense with all intra-intestinal devices, and practise anastomosis simply by making a long incision (about four inches) through the portions of gut to be approximated, and holding them together with stitches, Abbe employ- ing a double row of continuous sutures, but Halsted preferring a quilt suture. When lateral anastomosis is resorted to, Abbe’s suggestion is of value, that the portions of bowel should be adjusted with their ends pointing in opposite directions, so that the peristaltic wave may be con- tinuous through both.