370 INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. Suppurative Lymphangeitis.—This occurs in many forms. Toward the termination of a reticular lymphangeitis, little rounded purulent elevations of the epidermis occur, such as form the popularly termed “run-arounds” at the root of a finger-nail. Again, deeper in the derm small purulent collections may form. In ordinary tubular lymphan- geitis a series of painful, indurated spots form in the course of the lymph-vessels, which appear successively, do not point as an acute abscess does, but form rounded, fluctuating spots which if opened give vent to a greater quantity of creamy pus than the appearances would indicate. Occasionally the pus resembles more that of a cold abscess, and small sloughs may be detected. Sometimes the number of these purulent collections is great, one case having been reported by Clias- saignac with 21; a second, by J. Roux, which required 33 incisions, in a patient on whom two years before, for the same trouble, 22 incisions had been made.1 Cicatrization usually readily occurs. While often multiple, there may be only one or two abscesses, and they may even, in rare instances, disappear by absorption.'2 Unless followed by a lymph-fistula they usually heal rapidly after evacuation. In a certain number of cases, much larger circumscribed abscesses may form as the result of a circumscribed perilymphangeitis. Again the relation between diffuse cellulitis and suppurative lym- phangeitis must not be overlooked, for at times, instead of circumscribed collections of pus, this is diffused first along the whole extent of the peri- lymphatic tissues, whence step by step it infiltrates the cellular tissue until a widespread purulent collection has formed, distending the skin. This, stripped off and deprived of its vascular supply, sloughs; it is a mere step from this to the further involvement of the intermuscular cellular planes, and diffuse cellulitis of the whole limb. The fistulae occurring after multiple suppuration along the course of lymphatic trunks, usually open at the position of the lowest abscess. A button of granulations, covered by white or yellowish clots of lymph, usually marks the site. The flow is continuous, drop by drop, but is increased by standing—especially if in the lower extremity—walk- ing, or straining, and may even jet out if pressure be exercised upon the vessel. The amount poured out is said to be less than when the fistula results from damage to a lymph-gland. Fistulie resulting from suppuration opening into a lymph-trunk usually close in the course of a week or ten days, but they may persist, especially on the penis. Complications.—Phlebitis, bursitis, and arthritis are far less uncom- mon than is usually believed, while peritonitis and pleuritis may occur, if the view is correct that lymphangeitis and erysipelas are closely allied if not identical diseases, manifesting their morbid action in somewhat different tissues. Albuminuria is occasionally observed, probably re- sulting from renal congestion produced by the effort to eliminate mi- crobes or ptomaines. Richet was compelled in one case to cut subcuta- neously the contracted lymphatics at the bend of the elbow, as they interfered with its movements. Uterine Lymphangeitis.—I cannot agree with Mr. Bellamy that septic uterine lymphangeitis “is invariably fatal,” because this disease must result from germs and the ptomaines, toxalbumoses, etc., elabor- 1 Ibid. 2 Ibid.