INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 980 of a large curved needle, a double silk thread. The fluid is then removed by means of a large hypodermic syringe, and the ends of the thread are tied together. The three punctures are closed with collodion and the whole side of the scrotum is painted with the same. The thread is allowed to remain in place for from six to eight days, when it is removed and collodion is again applied. Dr. 0. Will1 advises the use of a seton of silk thread moistened with tincture of iodine, and Jacobson recommends its employment in cases of encysted hydrocele in ivhich the patient refuses a cutting operation. There is no absolutely certain cure for hydrocele except a total .exci- sion of the secreting sac. This involves such an extensive dissection as to endanger the integrity of the testicle, and cannot be advised. Yolkmann’s plan,2 the credit of originating which, however, he gives to B. Beck—of incising the sac and suturing its edges to the skin, and introducing a drainage-tube—is regarded as being more sure than the use of injections. Bramann 3 says that Volkmann, in 163 cases, had no return, and that the operation was equally successful in the hands of Reyer, Czerny, Trendelenburg, and Kuester. Von Bergmann, Albert, and Rochelt, however, had some recurrences. Volkmann’s method has now been to a great extent replaced by a return, under antiseptic precautions, to the old plan of excision pursued by Douglas, Pott, and Bell. This consists in excising the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis, only leaving enough to cover the testicle and cord. Even under this procedure Morris 4 has had two recurrences, which he successfully treated by packing the sac with boric-acid lint. Incision combined with the application of chloride of zinc, carbolic acid, or nitrate of silver, has also been employed. Dr. Hearn, of Philadelphia, advocates the use of carbolic acid in this manner, and I too have used it with success. Mr. Jacobson 5 prefers the application of the solid nitrate of silver stick after excision of the parietal layer, and believes it to be surer than the other remedies, while in his experience it has not been followed by either pain or orchitis. Congenital Hydrocele.—The frequency of hydrocele in infants is claimed by Wechselmann 6 to be greater than has heretofore been sup- posed. Out of two hundred and seventy male infants whom he ex- amined he found that thirty-seven had hydrocele. In fourteen of these the sac communicated with the peritoneal cavity, only two being on the left side, and both communicating with the peritoneum. In four cases the hydrocele was double. Most of the hydroceles were as large as a cherry, though some reached the size of a plum or were even larger. While .congenital hydrocele may be as frequent in newly born infants as Wechselmann claims, I am convinced, from a considerable experience in the surgical diseases of children, that it is not so in those who are a few months old. That the affection disappears spontaneously is well known, and this may account for the difference. While it is not at all uncommon in the outdoor service of our hospitals, still it does not ap- 1 Edinburgh Medical Journal, Dec., 1888. 2 Berliner klinische Wochensebrift. 1876, No. 8, S. 29. 3 Ibid , 1885, No. 22, S. 209. 4 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1888, vol. xcvi., p. 156. 5 Op. cit., pp. 150-155. 6 Arcliiv fur Chirurgie, Bd. xxxvi., Heft 3.