812 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. days becomes rusty or black; or the blood may escape into the cavity of the pleura, and be slowly expelled with each respiratory act through the external wound, or may remain until it distends the cavity (hcemo- thorax) and compresses the lung against the back. In rare cases, when the air vesicles alone are torn, without injury to the pleura, air may escape into the cellular tissue of the lung and make its wa}r along the outside of the bronchi to the mediastinum, and so gain the root of the neck; or, which is most common, it may find its way into the pleu- ral cavity (pneumothorax) and from thence enter the cellular tissue, causing surgical emphysema; or, if the wound he large, it may he sucked in and out of the chest during respiration (tromatopnoea), being more or less mixed with blood. Dyspnoea is always present to some degree, and if the lung rapidly collapses it is extreme. The shock in such injuries is severe and often fatal, even when but little hemorrhage has occurred. If the lung has escaped, the diaphragm may be para- lyzed from injury to the phrenic nerve; or, if the heart be feeble and tremulous in its action, injury to the pericardium or its nerve supply, or simple concussion of the heart may be suspected. In penetrating wounds of the chest extensive hemorrhage may take place without the lung having been injured, especially in gunshot wounds involving the intercostal artery or the internal mammary. I once saw fatal hemor- rhage follow wounding of the vena azygos major by the blade of a small knife, the nature of the injury being revealed by post-mortem examination. The bleeding in these cases is often internal or concealed, and the treatment varies with the nature of the case. If the source of hemorrhage can he located with any degree of accuracy, the wound should he carefully enlarged and the bleeding point sought for, even if resection of several ribs should he necessary. Injury to the Heart and Pericardium.—In comparison with the lung the heart is seldom injured, except in suicidal attempts, and even then it frequently escapes owing to the popular opinion that this viscus is entirely upon the left side of the chest. In rare cases the pericardium, or the surface of the heart, may be injured and yet the patient recover, but as a rule these cases are fatal. Occasionally the heart has been wounded by the entrance of fish bones or pins driven through from the walls of the oesophagus. Recovery in non-penetrating wounds of the heart is said to take place in about fifteen per cent, of all cases, hut this estimate is undoubtedly too high. Penetrating wounds of the heart are, as a rule, fatal, although death is not always immediate, especially if the wound is made with a sharp instrument, which does not produce much concussion. I had under my care a patient who lived for nearly four hours after a penetrating wound of the left ventricle, one and one- half inches in length, made by the blade of a butcher’s knife. Death takes place in these cases largely from the effusion of blood into the pericardium, slowly hut effectually embarrassing the heart’s action. The diagnosis of heart wounds, where external signs are absent, may he made by noting the extreme shock, dyspnoea, and almost instant failure of the circulation. The heart sounds are usually inaudible, but occasionally splashing or other abnormal sounds may he heard. In the treatment of these cases absolute rest should be enforced. External cold over the pericardium, and opium internally, may be found of service. The external wound may he closed, this being best done by