TUMORS. 286 reporting his cases does not distinguish between cases operated upon according to the respective methods of Kocher and Kraske, and this appears to me to be an error. In estimating the final results we shall do well to accept the four years' limit as the test of a cure. Taking the sacral and perineal oper- ations together, in the 420 cases in my list, 144 patients were operat- ed upon four years before the report: 32 of these died from the opera- tion, and 13 were lost sight of, leaving 99 to test the question of recurrence; and of these 99, recurrence took place in Tl before the four years elapsed, while 28 remained free from disease. Calculating on the total number, including the fatal cases, but excluding the 13 lost sight of, the percentage of cures is 21.3. We might add that four patients of Kronlein’s wanted from three to six months only of the four years’ survival at the time of the report, and consequently, although healthy, could not be included, while three of Czerny’s patients were again attacked by the disease three, four, and seven years after the first operation, so that they had to be included on the debit side of the account, and my estimate therefore of the operative results is certainly not too favorable. The majority of these were perineal operations, and nearly all of the cures were the result of such procedures. But it must not be imagined that for this reason the operations were slight, or the cases all of a promising character. I have especialty studied this point in the histo- ries of forty-three cases of cures (estimated by the four-year limit) which were accessible, with the following results: twenty might be called favorable cases, being of tumors low down or with small attach- ments, but the rest were all serious, and in eight the operations were ex- tensive and severe. For instance, in the last category from 12 to 18 cen- timetres of bowel were removed in several cases, the infiltrated vaginal septum was excised, the prostate was attacked, the prostate and semi- nal vesicles were partly removed, and in one instance a large tumor filled the rectum, involved the vagina, and compelled the opening of Douglas’s pouch and the use of the curette on masses there which could not be cut away. In one case of Esmarch’s there was a melanotic tumor, which returned subsequently in the inguinal glands, but after removal there did not again recur, the patient remaining well seven years after the first and five years after the second operation. Carcinoma of the Breast.—Cancer of the breast, according to S. W. Gross, in a statistical study based upon 1622 cases, most frequently attacks individuals between forty and fifty years of age; and as his figures are nearly the same as those in all the later series of cases pub- lished, I have reduced them to a percentage basis and give them below:— 20 to 30 Years. 31 to 40 Years. 41 to 50 Years. 51 to 00 Years. 6i to ro Years. Tl Years and Upward. Gross Per Cent. 2.2 Per Cent. 1G 5 Per Cent. 37 3 Per Cent. 30 Per Cent. 12.2 Per Cent. 1.4 Poulsen. Married 1 7 11 2 39 28 2 16 Totals. 3.4 (231 cases). 3.2 (94 cases). Single 2.1 14.9 28.7 33 18