227 ETIOLOGY. ouglily and scientifically investigated and has consequently lost adhe- rents. In fact it is a common experience of surgeons to have patients ask the question, “How could I get this tumor? Nothing of the kind was ever known before in our family, and I have always been healthy.” Yet there are some curious instances in which the inheritance of vari- ous kinds of tumor, or at least the existence of a family predisposition to them, cannot be denied. Thus Smith records two cases of multiple polypi of the rectum occurring in one family. Ranecke reports a case in which a man, his son, and four grandchildren, had multiple exos- toses; and Reulos mentions a still more remarkable case in which a man and three sons all had congenital exostoses in the inferior extremities, with others developing subsequently, while the sister of this man, her daughter, four children of the latter, and seven grandchildren, were all afflicted in the same way. About thirty-five such instances are now on record. Blaschko reports a curious case in which all the male mem- bers of a family had multiple lipomata, appearing at puberty, while the female members were unaffected. Puls observed a mother and daughter both suffering from cystic fibroma of the breast, one being 56 and the other 23 years of age, and the tumors having appeared within a year of each other. Paget’s cases, published in 1857, 1862, and 1S66, showed in 500 cases of malignant disease a cancerous rela- tive in 21 per cent., and in 117 cases of benign tumor a cancerous relative in less than 7 per cent., which would indicate that there was some hereditary influence, although slight. Williams in 121 cases found a family history of cancer in 16 per cent., including all relatives, but his statistics are intended (as were Paget’s also) to show the family tendency. If we limit the question to the direct inheritance of cancer, including only parents and grand- parents in the search, the proportion becomes very much less. Cripps gives a calculation based on 169 cases, and finds disease present in the parent in 11 cases only, not including two of a doubtful character. The fallacies which may surround a calculation like that of Williams are illustrated in his own figures of the number .of times in which he found a phthisical relative in the families of these 121 cases, the pro- portion amounting to 50 per cent. Would not a general census of the population have given approximately the same figures both as to cancer and phthisis? The occasional occurrence of malignant disease in sisters or brothers, or in groups of individuals, parents and children, reported by various observers, is certainly too striking to be passed over as a mere coinci- dence; but cannot these cases be readily explained as a series appearing in one house, or among a group of friends, due to contagion, either personal or derived from some common source? This subject has al- ready been discussed. We know, also, of some racial predispositions to tumors, such as that of the negro to fibromata, which are worth noting in this connection. Some individuals are certainly more prone to the development of neoplasms than are others. Connection with Lith^emia, etc.—Certain facts have been discov- ered in regard to malignant disease which are worthy of notice in this discussion of its etiology. Some French authors, especially Verneuil, have revived the old idea of an intimate connection between cancer and