714 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NOSE AND ACCESSORY SINUSES. ments and the use of powders. A pressure of from ten to twenty pounds is used by the majority of rhinologists, and the employment of so great a force as “ forty pounds or more to the square inch” has been almost wholly abandoned as irritating and injurious. Medicated pow- ders have been less used than formerly, and I do not myself employ them except to stop hemorrhage or cover an ulcerated surface. The whole treatment of nasal diseases has become much more gentle and conservative, the great injury to the Eustachian tubes, middle ears, and accessory sinuses of the nose, and the remote ills resulting from many lauded measures, having necessitated such a change. Antiseptic surgery has been as valuable in nasal operations as in those on other regions of the body, but the possibility of rendering or keeping the fossa sterile is more than doubtful. Surgical wounds are treated almost exclusively by the “open method,” dependence being placed on antiseptic irrigation and dusting powders used once or many times a day. A very ingenious method of using the “closed dressing” has been devised by Roe, of Rochester, N. Y.,1 consisting of plugs made of “thin metallic plates, evenly, carefully, and firmly wound with anti- septically prepared Angora wool or bichloride cotton, and which be- fore being introduced are dipped into a solution of bichloride of mer- cury (1 to 3000). The metal plugs should be of such size and shape that when wound with cotton and inserted in the nostril they com- pletely cover the wounded surface. ” This or any other “ closed method” is thought by most rhinologists to produce more irritation than the amount of sepsis uncontrollable by proper and thorough open treatment. Coryza or Rhinitis. Acute Coryza.—But little has been added to our knowledge of the pathology of this disease, the most important points being the demon- stration of its causative relation to acute otitis and inflammation of the frontal and other sinuses. The treatment of an acute rhinitis has, however, been made much more satisfactory by the introduction of such new drugs as cocaine and menthol, and by improved methods of application. A “cold in the head” may often be aborted in its early stages by the following method: From three to five drops of a five-per-cent, solution of cocaine muriate are first injected into each nostril by means of an ordinary medicine dropper. Complete contraction usually results in from five to eight minutes, thoroughly opening up the nasal chambers, and permitting the otherwise impossible, thorough use of an antiseptic spray. The latter is to be gently but thoroughly used until the fossae are absolutely free from mucus and debris; I commonly employ a solution of boric acid, borate of sodium, and chloride of sodium, hut Dobell's solution and compounds containing Listerine are perhaps equally valuable. After thorough cleansing, the membrane should be freely coated with a spray of liquid albolene containing from three to five grains of menthol and camphor to the ounce. Very frequently the coryza will wholly disappear, not to return, after the above-described treatment, and in all cases it will be found to run a much shorter and milder course than 1 Medical News, March 28, 1891.