604 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. It will be observed on comparing these tables that the tubercular tumors in Starr’s table are 193 out of 000, nearly one-third. In the other table they are 137 out of 580, or 23 per cent., the larger percent- age in Starr's table being due to the greater preponderance of tuber- cular tumors in early life, they being nearly four times as frequent in children as in adults. The proportion of the gliomata is not far from the same in each, and the percentage of sarcomata in Starr's table is slightly greater than in the other. It will be observed again on taking tubercular tumors, gliomata, sarcomata, and the glio-sarcomata to- gether, that they constitute 434 out of the 600 in Starr's table and 302 in White and Bernhardt's table, which comprises 447 tumors of known character and 133 of unknown histology. The enormous proportion, therefore, of tubercular and the various kinds of sarcomatous tumors is very evident. Hence the presumption is in general greatly in favor of one of these two kinds of tumor being present. In childhood the pre- sumption is in favor of either tubercular or gliomatous tumors; whereas in adults the sarcomata number far more than other varieties. Starr has recently called attention to the singular fact that so few gummata have been recorded in literature, and says that his impression, derived from clinical experience, is that gumma is the most frequent form of brain tumor occurring in adults. My impression is that this is going much too far, but that undoubtedly the number in Starr’s table is proportionately far less than that of the gummata which are seen clinically. Inasmuch as they are influenced bv specific medication, and are often either entirely cured or diminished to such an extent as to become innocuous, they rarely come either to operation or to the post- mortem table. This to a great extent explains their absence from sta- tistics. Statistics are often misleading, and apply only in a general way to any individual case, but yet they are of value as establishing a presump- tion. Given, for instance, an adult who has had an injury and is free from syphilis and tubercle, and the probabilities are very strongly in favor of sarcoma, or its congener glioma. If there be sarcoma in any other organ and marked cachexia, the presumption will be strongly in favor of a metastatic sarcoma of the brain. Or if there have been evidences of late secondary or of tertiary syphilis and no injury, the chances will be strongly in favor of gumma. Again, in a child, without injury, with an hereditary predisposition to tuberculosis, and especially if any other form of tuberculosis be present, the presumption is strongly in favor of a tubercular tumor, especially if there are any evidences pointing toward more than one tumor, or of a tumor in the cerebellum. If the tumor be a very vascular glioma, there may be sud- den changes in the intensity of the symptoms, accompanied possibly by attacks of epilepsy of moderate degree, due to hemorrhage. Von Bergmann has taken decided ground against attacking tuber- cular tumors, on the ground that it is impossible to remove them thoroughly. Horsley, whose opinion always carries double weight, is decidedly in favor of removing them, and Starr rightly favors attack- ing them just as the surgeon attacks a tubercular joint or a tubercular testicle. In gummata both Hale White and von Bergmann have op- posed operation. On the other hand, Horsley, Seguin, and Starr are rightly in favor of their removal after the failure of specific treatment.