270 TUMORS. disease appears to require amputation in order to secure permanent re- covery ; of five cases three were in the foot and two in the hand. The tendons themselves were not affected. Tendons, however, although very rarely attacked by sarcoma, are not entirely exempt from the disease, as is shown by the case of Mon- profit occurring in the flexor digitorum of the foot, and by that of Schulz in the corresponding tendon of the hand. In the latter case, the ten- don lay exposed at the bottom of a traumatic ulcer, and it is probable that the disease was due to sarcomatous degeneration of granulation tissue. Sarcoma of the Skin.—Sarcoma of the skin usually occurs in the form of multiple small tumors, with very late metastasis, and sometimes runs a very long course. It has even been claimed that some tumors which had recurred after operation in these cases of multiple growth, had subsequently undergone spontaneous involution. It is well to bear this in mind in connection with the claim of Kobner and others that these cases can be cured by the internal administration of arsenic. We have seen that multiple fibromata of the skin sometimes disappear, and care must be taken not to confound these two similar forms of cutane- ous lesion. The sarcomatous tumors are often pigmented, and are then usually more malignant. Besides this rather benign form, typical single sarcomata are found, very often supervening upon granulation tissue in some wound or ulcer. Here too the chance for error is con- siderable, as it is easy to confound ordinary granulation tissue with sarcoma. That some of these single tumors are markedly malignant in spite of their very small size, is well illustrated by a case in which I excised very freely a small sarcomatous cauliflower growth which had appeared without cause upon the skin of the shoulder of a young and healthy man. Some months afterward the axillary glands of that side enlarged and were thoroughly extirpated. Again, after a few months, the cervical glands enlarged, without any return at the original seat .of disease or in the axilla, and while the patient was debating the ques- tion of a third operation, he died suddenly with cerebral symptoms that indicated the probability of internal metastasis. Sometimes these sar- comata of the skin attain a very large size, as in the case reported by Conner, which occurred upon the scalp of a young woman, and which, during fifteen years of slow growth and five months of rapid increase, attained a size of 17 by 15 inches, and 21 inches in circumference. Treatment of Sarcoma. Wherever these tumors occur, the attempt has been made to cure them by operation, and I have already indicated with what measure of success. The proportion of cures in the different organs varies so widely that it is impossible to give any figures which are generally ap- plicable, and I only repeat that in the bones there are about 25 per cent, of cures, and in the breast from 20 to 75 per cent. This is rather more satisfactory than the results in the epithelial malignant growths, but in many of the organs the results are much worse, yet they should encourage us to farther efforts, especially if the patients can be brought