PYiEHIA. 103 accumulation of small round-cells at the confines of the abscess-cavity mechanically prevents the proliferation of the cocci, or that these cells destroy the bacteria by acting as phagocytes; but I rather think that the fluid surrounding these cells exerts a deleterious effect on the micro- organisms. The recent investigations and the results of blood-serum therapy in other bacterial diseases,, such as tetanus and diphtheria, point strongly to the opinion that the blood, or rather the blood-serum, has a bactericidal power which usually prevents the generalization of the process. But if this quality should happen to be impaired, the in- fection may spread, as no barrier intervenes. Fig. 1589. Morbid Anatomy.—Clinically there are two forms of pyaemia. One is characterized by the existence of a single large focus of suppuration, as, for instance, a suppurating joint, or a compound fracture in a septic condition, whence constant inva- sion of masses of micro-organisms takes place, pro- ducing fever which leads to death. In the other variety, there is no such central focus of suppura- tion, a slight wound only having been received, which may be entirely healed when general pysemic infection sets in, and perhaps proves fatal. A great many cases of this kind figure as cases of cryptoge- netic pyaemia. Other so-called cryptogenetic cases find their explanation at the post-mortem table in an unsuspected abscess somewhere in the organism, from which the general infection had started. The frequency of pyaemia has been lessened to a vast degree in modern surgery. In earlier times, many hospitals were infamous for the frequent oc- currence of pyaemia and allied conditions in their wards. I must repeat here the well-known fact that typical antisepsis and asepsis, thoroughly carried out, are absolute prophylactics against such infection. The anatomical changes which take place in pyaemia are briefly these: While in septicaemia severe poison- ing of the whole organism prevails, pyaemia is char- acterized by local inflammatory processes. We find micrococci in the blood-vessels, in the blood (in the plasma as well as especially in the leucocytes), and in the different organs and metastatic foci (see Figs. 1589, 1590). Of special interest in pyaemia are the bacterial inflammations of the walls of the veins, with consecutive for- mation of thrombi which are subject to suppurative decay under the influence of the invading cocci (Fig. 1591). These conditions explain the formation of metastatic abscesses: particles of these suppurated thrombi are torn off and carried away by the current of the blood, and lodge anywhere as emboli, as, for example, in the capillaries of the lung, re- producing everywhere thrombosis and suppuration. These metastases and foci of micrococci may occur in almost every organ, in the muscles of the heart, in the pericardium and endocardium, in the lungs or pleura, in the brain, liver, spleen, or kidneys, in the joints, in the mar- row of hone, in the muscles, lymphatic glands, or skin. When the Blood-vessel from the Cortical Substance of the Kidney of a Pysemic Rabbit, a, Micrococci, enclosing blood-corpus- cles, crowded against the walls: 6, small group of cocci between blood- corpuscles. X 700. (R. Koch.)