SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 358 sues, with consequent cicatrization or coagulation-necrosis and cheesy degeneration. If this process progresses so far as to affect the intima, ulceration may take place into the lumen of the vessel, in which case cheesy material, accompanied by the tubercle bacilli, is introduced into the blood-current, inundating the entire system and establishing gen- eral acute miliary tuberculosis. Very similar in its pathology is the phlebitis of glanders, which fre- quently causes a generalization of the disease by means of infected thrombi (Israel). In traumatic phlebitis exactly the same conditions obtain as were de- scribed under the head of simple proliferating thrombo-plilebitis, pro- vided the injury done to the veins is of an aseptic character. After aseptic ligature of the veins, no thrombus is formed, unless an injury of the endothelium is associated with a reduced velocity of the blood- current. Obliteration of the vein is completed by newly formed tissue in a comparatively short time, in about five days, on the average. If septic conditions are permitted to complicate the wounds, the vein- walls and the thrombus behave in the manner described on page 025T in speaking of periphlebitis and purulent thrombo-plilebitis. Arteritis. The subject of traumatic arteritis has been one of unabated interest and continued research since the first volumes of the present work ap- peared in print, and deligation of arteries in animals has been practised to the present time by various observers as a simple and efficient method of inquiry into the difficult problems associated with this theme. Not, however, until comparatively recently has much attention been given to the influence of antisepsis and asepsis upon the facts under discussion. This now appears as a point of great importance, although some writers deem it of only secondary interest or advisedly dismiss it from view as immaterial. We now know that the pathological changes in an artery after trau- matism vary considerably with the immediate effect of such traumatism upon the blood-current. If the blood-current in an artery be not intercepted for any length of time, as in the cases wdiere ligatures have been tightly applied to the arteries and then immediately removed (Zahn), or where sutures have been laterally applied to the arterial walls after incisions, etc., repair to the injured portions progresses toward restitution without the forma- tion of any appreciable clot vdiatever. Only in those cases in which a slowing of the current occurs, or is artificially maintained for a time (Jassinowski), do clots appear, and these consist solely of aggregated masses of blood-plates (white thrombus). If, on the other hand, deligation of the artery is carried out with suffi- cient force to interrupt the blood-current, the formation of a blood-clot is dependent upon the fate of the endothelial lining of the artery. If this retains its vitality no clot is formed; if it loses its vitality a red thrombus is formed of the stagnant blood in the immediate vicinity of the ligature, and reaching, on its proximal side, to the next lateral branch, however small or microscopic in size this may be.