ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 546 division of the neck of the latter with a small osteotome, forcible straightening is completed. Thorough antisepsis is essential. (0) Tarsectomy.— No positive rules based upon the age of a patient can be laid down as regards excision of the tarsal bones. The justifia- bility of operation must depend upon the conditions encountered. There are cases in adults which can easily be cured without mutilation of the tarsal arch, and there are instances in young children (but not in in- fants) where such a procedure may become the proper surgical course. The first element, therefore, in determining the propriety of excision would be the rigidity of the foot. This will depend largely upon the alteration in shape of the osseous tissues, and secondly upon the density of the contractions in the fasciae and tendons. Some surgeons advocate the removal of the astragalus even in young children; but the large majority of American surgeons reserve such operations for older patients, and for more resistant cases. The second indication for excision will, of course, be the degree of deformity, and the possibility of securing a good walking foot which can be planted squarely upon the sole, and which can be brought to extension at least slightly beyond a right angle with the leg. In many cases in adults the operation is perfectly justifiable, and will greatly im- prove the locomotion of the individual. Another element in reaching a decision will be the condition and control of the patient. In many instances where time is of no conse- quence, where care and attention will be given to the instructions of the surgeon, and where the nursing of the patient will be assiduous, the less radical measures may be employed, and will be successful. But in a case where it is certain that careful attention will not be given and that even the most careful instructions will be disobeyed, where time is of great consequence, and where it is certain that the failure of one operation will be followed by the refusal of another attempt at rectifi- cation, an excision becomes perfectly justifiable, though it would not have been so under the conditions first named. Kelapsed cases especially demand the operation. Another argument in favor of tarsectomy is that it sometimes places the foot in such cor- rected position that the use of apparatus can be dispensed with more speedily than when a less radical operation has been performed. This is often an element of importance.. If, however, only one foot is in- volved, it is highly improbable that a patient will for many years be able to dispense with apparatus, as the unevenness of the gait tends to roll the foot upon its outer surface, especially if, as in many cases, the peroneals are paralyzed, and there is difficulty in maintaining the foot in the good position which has been secured by operation. No surgeon, though careful to an extreme degree, can depend abso- lutely upon the varying conditions of materials, instruments, solutions, etc., which he has to use about a wound; hence the opportunities for admission of germs are not wanting, and occasionally suppuration will result. Wilson1 gives the mortality in 435 cases as 1.6 per cent. A list of sixteen different forms of tarsectomy is given by Young, ' but ex- cision of the astragalus and wedge-shaped resection of the tarsus are the two chief operations. 1 Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1893, vol. vi., p. 160. 2 Orthopaedic Surgery, p. 380. Phila., 1894.