961 URETHRAL NEOPLASMS. Urethral Neoplasms. To the literature of urethral neoplasms a number of additions have been made in the way of reported cases. The division of these into malignant growths, vegetations, and polypi, is confirmed by these records. Very considerable advance in the diagnosis and treatment of these cases has resulted from the use of the urethroscope. With this instrument a careful study of the urethra will disclose the location and nature of any neoplasm that may be present. The most easily discov- ered are the vegetations, which, though sometimes found in groups in the deeper portions of the canal, grow most often in its extreme an- terior part, in the region of the fossa navicularis or even closer to the meatus, and are quite similar to the papillomata occurring on the sur- face of the prepuce and glans. As seen with the urethroscope, they are usually light in color and present an irregular shape, and with a probe their soft structure may be noted. The polypi, which are generally seated in the posterior portions of the canal, are seen as bluish masses of rounded outline, and are recognized as they suddenly jump into the field at the end of the tube. It is sometimes difficult to expose them to view in order to discern their point of origin, but this can be accom- plished by carefully changing the position of the tube. Not only is the diagnosis of urethral growths easily established by the urethroscope, but their accurate removal with forceps or curette is thus rendered possible. A curette to be used in conjunction with the urethroscope has recently been devised by Dr. J. B. Deaver.1 (Fig. 1760). He calls it a Fig. 1760. Deaver’s Circular Urethral Curette. “circular cutting curette.” It consists of a circular blade with two notches which will engage and detach the vegetations. It is mounted on a rod, the handle of which fits closely the proximal end of the ure- thral tube, and thus it is steadied during manipulation. A very able account of a number of cases of urethral neoplasm studied with the endoscope has lately been published by Klotz,2 of New York. An operation which has occasionally been resorted to for the removal of urethral neoplasms, to which Duplay applies the ancient terms of caruncles or carnosities, consists in opening the urethra in its roof through an external incision, then removing the growth, and closing the wound by hare-lip pins. It is, of course, only applicable in the 1 Medical News, 1894, vol. lxv., p. 98. 2 New York Med. Journ., Jan. 26, 1895, p. 99. VOL. VII.—61