683 AFFECTIONS OF THE CORNEA. modes of treatment have been tried, such as trephining the apex and removing a plug, and cauterizing with lunar caustic, but the results have not been satisfactory. The operation described by Knapp1 has probably been followed by the best results and seems most rational. He employs with the galvanic cautery an electrode with an oval plate, 3 by 2 mm. This is applied cold a little below the centre of the cornea, and is removed as soon as it is brought to a red heat. He is careful not to allow the instrument to penetrate the anterior chamber, and thereby prevents the formation of synechise. A second operation may be necessary, but this is preferable to causing too much reaction by the first. It may be necessary to perform a subsequent iridectomy for , optical purposes. Tumors of the Cornea.—These may be dermoid cysts, which are congenital and are attached at any portion of the margin, or fibromata, which are very rare, while in one or two instances corneal polypi have been reported. The malignant tumors wjiich at times attack the cornea do so by extension from the iris, choroid, or ciliary body. Pterygium.—Ophthalmic surgeons still differ as to the origin of this growth, or overgrowth, of the conjunctiva. Contrary to many opinions, Fuchs claims that pterygium has its starting-point in a pinguecula, which during the degenerative process extends upon the cornea and then draws the conjunctiva after it. True pterygia occur only at the inner and outer margins of the cornea, those found at other points having their origin in corneal ulcers to which the conjunctiva becomes attached. This variety rarely if ever shows any tendency to extend. Pterygium, while it may occur more frequently in elderly persons, is by no means uncommon among young men, but is much less common among women of any age. Several methods of removal have been described, but that advocated by Prince seems the most satisfactory and thorough. It consists in grasping the growth at or near its corneal attachment and gently tugging until it is entirely detached. With the eye under the influence of cocaine there is no pain, and the removal, as far as the cornea is concerned, is absolute. Bowman's membrane is usually sepa- rated from the cornea proper, and a white and glistening area, caused by the partial separation of the corneal layers, is temporarily seen, but soon disappears, the cornea healing without any opacity, which is not always the case when the dissection method is employed. After re* moval of the pterygium the edges of the conjunctiva are dissected back, and are then drawn together by sutures. It has been advised to make two vertical slits in the conjunctiva near the cornea, above and below, which prevent the conjunctiva being folded over the cornea when the sutures are tightened. When large pterygia are removed Hotz has advised skin grafting by Thiersch’s method to fill the gap. After the operation has been performed the eye should be thoroughly cleansed, as ha§ been directed, and a light dressing applied to keep it’ closed, for healing takes place faster than if it be left open. The sutures may be removed on the fourth or fifth day, and smoked glasses may be worn to protect the eye from light and dust. The part is likely to be sensitive for several weeks. 1 Archives of Ophthalmology, vol. xxi., No. 4.