SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 771 Goitre.—This term has been and still is loosely used to designate all chronic enlargements of the thyroid gland. It should be, and in the following pages is, reserved for such enlargements as are primarily of epithelial origin, clinically benign, and except through their mechanical effects on contiguous parts devoid of serious consequences. Site.—Goitre may involve both lobes of the gland and the interven- ing isthmus. It may develop in one or other lobe, in the isthmus alone, or in an accessory lobule. Recent investigations into the de- velopment of the normal gland have shown that accessory lobules are often found, and that they vary in size from a lentil to a bean. The limits of their distribution are the mandible above and the aortic arch below, on either side of the sterno-mastoid muscles. Posteriorly they have been found between the trachea and gullet, and even be- hind the latter. Such accessory lobules are generally situated in close relationship to the normal position of the body of the gland, and are often connected with it. They are continued downward, toward or be- hind the sternum, in contact with the vascular and nervous trunks of the root of the neck. Through abnormal development, the gland may completely surround the trachea and form a partial or complete canal for the passage of the (Bsophagus. On the other hand, the accessory lobules may have severed all bonds and exist as independent islets of glandular tissue, far removed from the parent gland. Their existence accounts for the presence in rare cases of intra-laryngeal and sublingual growths of typical thyroid structure. Gruber and Madelung have at- tempted to divide these accessory glands into certain groups. To their presence is due the atypical situation of some goitrous tumors, and they modify the form of enlargements of the body of the gland. Pathology.—The normal thyroid is a lobulated gland contained with- in a vascular and fibrous capsule, from which connective-tissue septa penetrate the interior and separate the lobules from each other. The latter consist of the ultimate granules imbedded in a stroma of inter- stitial connective tissue, derived from the capsule of the gland. The granular follicle is a minute globular sac of basement membrane, lined and filled with nucleated cells of gland type. In the adult gland the centre of the follicle generally contains a deposit of gelatinous or colloid material. In addition to the elements contained within the follicles, Wolffler has found vestiges of epithelial embryonal cells in the stroma, between the acini of the gland, and believes that when stimulated to •exuberant growth these masses of latent cells are productive of goitre. This view of Wolffler on the histogenesis of goitre has not, however, found general acceptance, and until further proof thereof is adduced, the doctrine of the intra-follicular origin of struma, as particularly enunciated by Virchow, may properly be retained. Every goitre is primarily epithelial, and the varieties are due to secondary changes consequent on cell metamorphosis, connective-tissue sclerosis, vas- cular hyperplasia, and hemorrhages. The shape, size, consistence, and surface appearance, in brief the clinical phenomena of a goitre, are determined by the variety to which it belongs, as is also the ques- tion of operative interference. Varieties.—(1) Follicular Goitre; Struma Hyperplastica Follicu- laris et Pcirenchymatosa.—This represents a growth of moderate dimen- sions. It is generally diffused throughout the entire gland or one of its