780 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. ■ It is claimed that this method precludes injury to the recurrent laryn- geal nerve, but this has been denied. The incision may be in the median line, with an angular extension upward and outward at the level of the hyoid bone, or it may be along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, as in extirpation. The surface of the gland is then bared as in the operations already de- scribed, and the affected lobe is freed by blunt dissection. The supe- rior thyroid artery and veins are next ligated, as well as any others which may enter the gland above its inferior cornu. The isthmus is then divided as in extirpation. The only portion of the lobe now ad- herent is the lower cornu, with the inferior thyroid artery and recur- rent laryngeal nerve. This portion is ligated in several divisions and cut off, leaving a “piece the size of a horse chestnut.” By making a second angular extension of the incision toward the other side, giving the whole incision a Y~f°rm> the other lobe of the gland may be pro- ceeded with in the same manner as the first. (5) Ligation of the Afferent Arteries of the Thyroid.—This is per- haps technically the most difficult operation practised upon the thyroid gland, and it is not very frequently employed. Its performance as a therapeutic measure has been justified by Wolffler after experiments on dogs. He has shown that where all the afferent arteries of one lobe of the gland are ligated, there follows a necrobiosis with consequent ab- sorption, not accompanied by any more rapid death of tissue. Recur- rence is however possible after this operation by the free development of collateral anastomoses. The operation is begun by tying the superior thyroids. The superior thyroid artery is found in the superior carotid triangle, and the operation is practically the same as for exposing the external carotid at the place of election. The incision is made over the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid with its centre opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The artery is found immediately after dividing the pla- tysma. When the thyroid is greatly enlarged upward the relation of the parts is somewhat changed, so that the artery should then besought at the anterior border of the omohyoid muscle. Care should be taken not to include the superior laryngeal nerve, which closely accompanies the artery. To tie the inferior thyroid, an incision is made over the anterior bor- der of the sterno-mastoid on a level w7ith the cricoid cartilage, and is extended to the clavicle. The sterno-mastoid is drawn outward, as are the carotid and accompanying vein when exposed. The inferior thyroid will be found as it passes from behind the carotid artery, slightly below the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, which can be felt through the wound. By placing the ligature close to the carotid it will be easier to avoid the recurrent nerve. In very large goitres it may be advisable to seek the artery by an incision along the outer border of the sterno-mastoid. Drobink and Rydygier have successfully operated many times after this method. Resume of the Different Operations.—That combinations of two or more of these operations, and variations of all of them, should be made by various operators might be expected; thus Koclier has described an operation as “ resections-enucleation,” intended as an im- provement upon the resection of Mikulicz. Hahn begins by ligature of