722 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NOSE AND ACCESSORY SINUSES. and those which spring from the superior meatus posteriorly are reached by a curved electrode introduced through the mouth. In very exceptional cases a cure can only be secured after removal of the ante- rior-inferior extremity of the middle turbinated body, by means of curved serrated scissors or a powerful snare. A large number of cases of malignant growth of the nasal region have been reported during the last few years in medical literature. The general aspect of the subject remains, however, practically unchanged, and the surgical principles and technique involved belong to the pro- vince of the general surgeon. Nasal Neuroses. These bear an important part in clinical medicine, it having been established by scores of independent observers that the highly sensitive nasal lining may affect reflexly many other organs. Eye symptoms, such as asthenopia, contraction of the visual field, ocular pain, subjec- tive color sensations, and infra-orbital neuralgia, are very frequently due to intra-nasal conditions, and are only curable by treatment of the nose. Inflammatory eye affections, such as catarrhal and follicular conjunctivitis, blepharitis, and obstruction of the lachrymal duct, are also lesions commonly cured by removal of the causative nasal disease.1 Urinary incontinence, cardiac neuroses, bronchial asthma, and vari- ous phases of neurasthenia, are almost daily relieved by the rhinologist by intra-nasal measures. Treatment must always be of the most gen- tle and conservative type to secure good results, for, as Beverly Robin- son has very aptly pointed out,2 indiscriminate surgical measures may increase or even originate the very conditions which they are designed to relieve, by the formation of cicatricial tissue and by reflecting irritation. Diseases of the Accessory Sinuses of the Nose. These are at present treated upon quite different lines from those fol- lowed a few years ago. The frontal sinus is probably inflamed in all cases of severe acute coryza, and pus accumulations in it are much more common than was formerly taught. Mild cases generally yield promptly to proper treat- ment of the causative coryza. When deformity is evident and the pain great, a blister of cantharidal collodion should be placed over the frontal sinus, or just above it. Internally, atropine sulphate, ^-Q-th of a grain every hour for sixteen hours, or until the throat is very dry, has a bene- ficial effect in many cases; the bromides in large doses also have a valu- able controlling influence on the severity of the symptoms. Trephining the anterior wall is very rarely called for, and forcibly opening the sinus through the nose seems to me to be a wholly theoretical measure. Subacute or chronic cases usually soon get well if the nasal disease is cured. The mouth of the infundibulum, and probably a portion of its length, may be washed out and medicated by means of a delicate 1 Hamilton, Journal of Laryngology, London, June, 1890. 2 Medical Record, April 19, 1890.