437 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. the principal phenomenon. They regard the condition as amenable to electricity, unless the cause is mechanical, when an operation is required for its relief. It has been suggested by Lane1 that fracture of one or other malle- olus, by forcible rotation of the astragalus in a horizontal plane, may not unfrequently occur, but escape recognition by reason of the non- displacement of the fragments. He adduces in support of this idea three specimens obtained by him in a limited number of dissecting- room subjects; in one both bones were concerned, in one the outer, and in the third the inner malleolus alone. In a case recorded by Jones,2 a man, aged 29, sustained a fracture of both bones at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the leg; on the ninth day a small traumatic aneurism was detected at the seat of injury; compression of the common femoral artery was instituted on the eleventh and twelfth days, with entire success. Exactly which vessel was thought to be involved, the account does not state. In an- other instance, reported by Borcheim3 the posterior tibial artery was concerned; ligation of the superficial femoral was performed, and re- covery, with union of the fracture, took place readily. Fractures of the Bones of the Foot. Fracture of the Astragalus.—Humphry,4 in the case of a boy, aged 16, who fell on his feet and sustained a longitudinal fracture of this bone, removed the outer fragment by a secondary operation, sup- puration having occurred; the result was favorable. Fractures of the Calcaneum.— Gussenbauer6 has reported the case of a man, aged 49, who fell into a ditch, alighting on his feet, and frac- turing one calcaneum; tenotomy was performed, and the fragment was brought down and secured in place by a metal pin, which was taken out at the sixth week. Two cases of fracture of both calcanea have been reported by Wight.0 In one, in a man aged 50, complete recovery took place; in the other, in a man of 25, amputation became necessary in one foot, but good union resulted in the other. 1 Guy’s Hosp. Reports, vol. xxix., 1887, p. 395. 2 Lancet, April 19, 1899. 3 Med. Record, Dec. 30, 1882. 4 British Med. Journal, Sept. 26, 1885. 5 Prager medicinische Wochenschrift, 2 Mai, 1888. 6 Brooklyn Med. Journal, Jan., 1888.