73? TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. layed. Sometimes, though very rarely, the patient is permanently cured. The recurrence of pain is due to regeneration of the excised nerve tissue, or to a sort of nervous anastomosis taking place through communicating nerves. Hence, neurotomy is not to be recom- mended, but neurectomy, combined with stretching of the central and peripheral portions of the affected nerve, should be chosen. As large a piece of nerve as can be readily reached should be excised. The opera- tion should be repeated as often as the pain returns, for experience shows that removal of the unidentified structures at the seat of a former operation, and the stretching of the supposed nerve-stump, will afford further relief, often lasting many months. The operative attack should be made upon the nerve as near its central origin as possible, due regard, however, being had for the risks of those operations which aim at excision of the Gasserian ganglion itself, or of the deep portions of any of the three divisions. Neurectomy of the branches making exit at the supra-orbital, infra-orbital, or mental fora- mina respectively, is practically free from danger, and often gives great comfort. These points should therefore be chosen for the earlier opera- tions. It will be readily understood that these operations will be in- effective if the lesion is behind the foramina, but it is rare that the surgeon can localize the cause of the neuralgia. The painful nerve, after exposure, should be thoroughly stretched by traction in both a central and a peripheral direction, and an inch or more, if possible, of the nerve trunk should be extracted. In operating upon the second division of the nerve, the spheno-pala- tine ganglion (Meckel’s) just in front of the foramen rotundum should be removed, if neurectomy at the infra-orbital foramen, with extrac- tion of a long piece of nerve, has proved unavailing. If the third di- vision is the painful trunk, excision should be done above the dental foramen in the lower jaw. or just below the oval foramen in the sphenoid bone, if neurectomy at the mental foramen or in the inferior dental canal has failed to give relief. As the exact seat and nature of the cause of the disease is usually undeterminable, success is more apt to be obtained, and a longer period of freedom from pain gained, by cutting away the nerve as near the brain as possible. The torturing character of the disease makes death preferable to life, wherefore the most severe operative procedures are ultimately justifiable. The less severe opera- tions, however, should be undertaken before those which are more dangerous are recommended to the patient. If two or all three of the divisions of the trigeminus are affected, the deeper operations are more clearly indicated. Ligation of the common carotid artery 1 of the affected side has given relief in some cases. I have twice performed this operation in patients previously subjected to neurectomy of the anterior parts of the nerves. Both cases were immediately relieved, but in time the pain recurred, and in one of them I subsequently did an intracranial neurectomy of the second and third divisions immediately in front of the Gasserian ganglion. Neurectomy of the supra-orbital nerve or terminal branch of the first division is performed by a horizontal incision just below the eyebrow, over the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the supra-orbital 1 An elaborate article on the various operations and their results, by Dr. G. R. Fowler, will be found in the Annals of Surgery, vol. iii., for 1886. VOL. VII.—47