GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 114 given are of questionable value as indicating penetration and perfora- tion. It is not probable that as a rule three out of four cases of visceral lesion will be recovered from, regard being had to the ordinarily high grade of shock, the likelihood of serious hemorrhage, and the great danger of septic infection from germs introduced from without, escap- ing from the intestinal cavity, or even passing through the unbroken bowel wall. In no other region of the body is the development of a septic inflammation so much favored by the conditions of the wounded part; and under any method of treatment a large fatality must attend such injuries. Since these wounds began to be treated by laparotomy, collected statistics show a mortality rate of about 66.1 per cent. Of Korte’s 64 cases 42 ended fatally; of Morton’s 110, 74; of Barrow’s 112, 74; of Martin and Hare’s 129, 86; and of Coley’s 165, 111. Reclus and Nogues estimate the death rate in laparotomies for intestinal per- foration as high as 78 per cent., 57 deaths in 73 cases. A few opera- tors, of large experience as these cases go, have been fortunate enough to save from 60 to 70 per cent, of their patients, but as eighteen is the highest number treated by any one up to the date of this writing, these statistics are perhaps of no very great value. By personal communications from fifty-five of our American surgeons I am informed of the results of 174 operations (all that have been done by them), giving 123 deaths and 51 recoveries, a mortality rate of 70 per cent. As a rule, the percentage of recoveries has been in proportion to the number of operations done by the surgeon, as might be expected. The earlier the case is submitted to operation the better it is for the patient, if he is to be operated upon at all. A laparotomy done only after abstention has for a day or days been practised, after grave symp- toms have presented themselves, and when death is imminent, promises very little; though occasionally, even under these desperate circum- stances, recovery takes place. As in all other abdominal sections, the time element is an important one. A short exposure, ready discovery df the few perforations present, easy suturing, and early closure of the operation wound, cause much less risk than do hours-long searching for and stitching of multiple lesions. In Martin and Hare’s table the mortality of operations completed in an hour was only one-third of that observed in those which lasted twice as long. The operation is certainly demanded (1) when there has been dis- charge externally of blood, feces, urine, or bile, and (2) when the symp- toms of collapse are present in marked and increasing degree; as a rule, it is vascular, not nervous, disturbance that has to be dealt with in the severer abdominal injuries. Though a bullet, even of large calibre, may pass through the peri- toneal cavity without causing any grave lesion, the chances are enor- mously against its doing so. Unless therefore the wound has been made by a ball of quite small calibre (22 or less), if penetration has occurred, laparotomy should be done so that whatever other treatment may prove to be needed may be adopted. By operation the chances of recovery are increased because of (1) the removal of extravasations of blood, bile, urine, food, or feces; (2) the prevention of later discharges into the peritoneal cavity by closure of the visceral openings, and of bleeding by the ligation of wounded ves- sels; (3) the taking away of any infected foreign body accidentally