241 LIPOMA. 1.1, though even here some authors make the proportion of women three or even four to one, as compared with men. From five to eight per cent, of lipomata are congenital, not including congenital fatty de- generation and hypertrophy. The congenital tumors are noted for their deep situation, often lying under the fascia, resembling when found on the forehead the dermoid cysts, and like them often being surrounded by a ring of thickened periosteum and occasionally thinning the underlying bone by their pressure, although more usually their at- tached surface is concave, fitting the convexity of the skull. Of the tumors supposed to develop later in life only a small number (about eight per cent.) lie deeply—Williams finding in eighty cases of lipoma five subfascial tumors, two under the pectoralis major muscle, one under the latissimus dorsi, one in the deltoid, and one under the occipi- tal aponeurosis. It may indeed be questioned whether all of the deep lipomata are not congenital, as from their deep situation they may easily be overlooked until in later life they reach a considerable size. In cer- tain situations they tend to become polypoid, and I find this to be espe- cially common in the flexures of the body and limbs, namely, the axilla, the gluteal folds, the perineum, and the popliteal space. Perhaps the pressure exerted upon them in these situations may have the effect of making them project through the overlying skin. One polypoid tumor has been described as hanging from the back of the hand, a congenital formation. Polypoid lipomata are also found on the intestine and in joints, being merely hypertrophied appendices epiploicse or villi, and sometimes such tumors break away and float about free in the perito- neal cavity. I have seen one of these polypoid lipomata, the size of a coffee-bean, in the praepatellar bursa, with a long, very slender pedicle. It is worth remarking that of the two hundred cases collected by Wil- liams only five were polypoid. A considerable proportion of lipomata are wanting in capsules; according to Stoll, as much as twelve per cent. Lipoma is often combined with fibrous tissue or with angeioma, the latter being especially common in the face. Striped muscle fibre is also found occasionally in lipomata, usually in the congenital tumors, and most frequently in the periosteal variety and those occurring in the testicle. But Stoll reports a congenital rhabdo-myolipoma in a sixteen- year-old boy, which was. situated at the flexure of the elbow, partly under and partly in the lower part of the brachialis muscle, and lying directly upon the capsule of the elbow-joint, thus contradicting the dictum of some authors that lipomata which develop in muscles do not contain these striped muscle fibres. Gowers discovered in one case a rhabdomyoma combined with lipoma within the spinal dura mater. Multiple lipomata are probably much more common than would be supposed from statistical reports (which estimate their frequency at from two to four per cent, of all lipomata), for usually in such cases the tumors are too small to require surgical treatment and hence es- cape scientific record. Sometimes these multiple growths are congeni- tal. At other times they appear to have a constitutional origin, proba- bly nervous or vaso-motor. Thus Buchterkirch and Bumke report a case in which multiple lipomata developed after an injury to the spine:— A man fifty-six years old fell fifteen feet, being made unconscious by the shock. Diminished sensibility and loss of power in the lower extremities followed and persisted. In two weeks lipomata were discovered on each side of the spine, then VOL. vii.—16