11 IMMUNITY AND PHAGOCYTOSIS. 1 Steven, loc. cit. especially liable to invasion by moulds, which possess a great power of growth, and secrete a diastase which dissolves the cellular membrane of the plant. If the mould obtains entrance, it absorbs the cell contents without hindrance, and the cells invaded perish, or, if they survive, undergo hypertrophy, often giving rise to the formation of special tumors or “galls,” and sometimes even to a hypertrophy of the whole organism. As in the cure of wounds, infections in plants are accom- panied by regenerative phenomena, due to the abundant multiplication of corpuscles not directly attacked, without presenting a process com- parable to the essential conditions of inflammation. To arrive at these, it is necessary to examine the conditions met with in the animal kingdom. In thus drawing a hard and fast distinction between proliferative or regenerative phenomena and the “essential acts of inflammation,” the author is promulgating an opinion 1 which is not unlikely to call forth a. good deal of adverse criticism. Calling attention to the fact that we do not know how polycellular animals are derived from the protozoa, that this gap must be filled by theories based on embryological observa- tions, and indicating the subject of his own theory upon this question, to which he has given the name of phagocytella—the stage phagocy- tella being easily transformed into the stage gastrula—an account is next given of the experiments upon sponges. He points out the differ- ent parts played hy the contractile and sensitive cells of the ectoderm, and by the mobile amoeboid corpuscles (phagocytes) of the mesoderm, in the protection of the organism from noxious external agencies. The flagellate cells of the entoderm are also endowed with the powers of p>hagocytes, as they surround small granules carried to them by the currents of water passing into the sponge, but the chief power in this way is located in the mesodermic cells and the contractile cells of the ectoderm, while the power of preventing to a certain extent the pas- sage of noxious matters is effected also by closing the superficial spores. In similar detail, the phenomena bearing on the inflammatory process in the higher members of the invertebrate group, such as the ccelen- terates, worms, molluscs, etc., are described. In the case of those species supplied with a vascular system, it is shown that the blood-ves- sels take no part in the reactionary process (phagocytosis) that Metch- nikoff believes to be the essential element in inflammatory action. As we ascend higher in the scale of animal existence, it is interest- ing to note how the phagocytes become specialized and located in different parts of the economy. In the case of worms, it is shown that the mesodermic phagocytes are represented by the cells suspended in the perivisceral liquid, or by the endothelial cells of the peritoneum, and in this case, the struggle between the parasite and the phagocytes goes on; while the blood-vessels developed to a high degree in the annelid a remain completely inactive, presenting neither visible changes of volume nor secretion of the reddish colored plasma. Among the invertebrates are found leucocytes with phagocytic properties pre- senting different characters—some granular, some hyaline, all pos- sessing a large, oval, non-lobulated nucleus. In invertebrate animals whose vascular system is not entirely shut off from the general body cavity, we do not find polynuclear leucocytes (arthropodes and mol-