468 DISEASES OF BONES. Leprosy of the Bones. In leprosy, as might be expected, the bones are frequently attacked. Of course they are always attacked in cases of deforming leprosy, in which fingers, for example, are lost. There are two forms of disease of the bones present in leprosy, one of which is of a rapidly destructive character, accompanied by caries and necrosis, and rapid loss of sub- stance; the other is a species of atrophic osteitis. In both conditions, examination reveals the presence of the bacteria of lep- rosy in the bones. Fig. 1624, taken by Gangolphe from Sawtschenko, shows the appearance of a phalanx invaded by several colonies of lepra bacilli. In this disease, as in most diseases of the bones, the point of invasion is usually the epiphysis or the juxta-epiphyseal region. Active resorption or disintegration distinguishes leprosy of the bones, in a manner analogous to what is seen in the soft parts. In some cases osteophytes have been discovered, which are supposed to have been produced by stimulation of the osteoblasts by the pres- ence of lepra bacilli. In the Trinidad Asy- lum for Lepers, Rake finds that operation wounds in general heal kindly, amputation wounds included. He reports 630 operations of sequestro- tomy with good results. In certain cases he relieved the pain of leprosy, affecting the bones, by very deep incisions. In the foot, these some- times were carried through and through the part. Active interference seems, therefore, to be not onty justifiable but also successful in cases of disease of the bones in leprosy. Fig. 1624. Section of First Phalanx of Thumb of a Leper fSawtschenko.) a, a, a, Nod- ules of leprosy. Syphilis of the Bones. The subject of syphilis of the bones is as extensive and as interesting as that of tuberculosis of the bones. As part of a constitutional dis- ease, it is discussed in treatises on this disorder, and also in all treatises especially devoted to bone diseases. It is a manifestation of what is commonly called the tertiary stage of syphilis, although, as is well known, severe osteocopic pains, usually felt in the shaft of the long hollow bones, and especially in the tibia, occur sometimes within six or eight weeks after the appearance of the initial lesion. At this stage there is at times an obscure form of irritation of the periosteum or of the bone immediately below it, giving rise to pains of more or less severe character which resemble rheumatic pains rather than the pains of osteitis due to a specific virus. They intermit by day, and are often relieved by pressure, instead of being aggravated by it. They are not accompanied by heat or swelling, and they may shift from one part to another. Such pains are not peculiar to syphilis, for they occur in other disorders of the bones; but they are so frequently found in