ARTERITIS. 361 on pathology, not as inflammatory but as degenerative processes: I re- fer to arterio-sclerosis and atheroma. Simple hyperplastic arteritis is observed in connection with throm- bosis (when some damage to the endothelium has been associated with a slowing of the blood-current), and consists in an infiltration of all the coats of the vessel-walls, both with round cells extravasated from the vasa vasorum and from neighboring vessels, and with spindle-shaped or digitated nucleated cells, so-called fibroblasts, emanating from the endothelial and peripheral connective tissue. New vessels are also formed, and push inward into the thrombus. In time new connective tissue is produced by which the thrombus is replaced. After a long interval of time the intima alone appears thickened and hyperplastic. Arterio-sclerosis, in its first stage, is now considered as a reactive in- flammatory proliferation of the tissues of the intima, due to damage done to the walls of the vessel. Such damage may be caused by simple senile weakening of the tissues, as well as by chronic pathological con- ditions, such as chronic nephritis; the results of infections, as acute articular rheumatism, endocarditis, typhoid fever; or chronic poisoning with alcohol, lead or mercury, and syphilis. Thoma has pointed out that the muscle-elements of the media were the first to suffer damage, and that this impaired the elasticity and led to a functional deficiency of the me- dia, which was compensated by hyperplastic changes in the inti- ma. Tissue-proliferation and in- flammatory areas are, neverthe- less, frequently found outside of the intima, in the media and ad- ventitia, as well as at the primary seat of damage. At a comparatively early period, however, the newly formed con- nective tissue undergoes hyaline degeneration, with granular and fatty metamorphosis, mucin-for- mation, or calcification, and in areas of complete necrosis masses of fatty detritus result, which may open by ulceration into the lumen of the artery. Atheroma is said by Thoma to originate from the necrosed, newly formed connective tissue, having first undergone hyaline degeneration. If these simpler forms of arteritis just described may be considered analogous to simple traumatic arteritis, we might look for a further analogy to the septic suppurative form of traumatic arteritis in the re- maining undescribed forms of infectious arteritis, such as the syphilitic and the tuberculous (Fig. 1611). The analogy, however, is only one of etiology, and, for a description of arterial syphilis the reader is referred to Yol. III. of the present work; while the remarks made on tuberculosis of the veins on page 0257 apply as well to that of arteries. Fig. 1611.