URINARY FEVER—PATHOGENESIS AND TREATMENT. 965 given satisfactory results in the sterilization of the urine, is salol. It may be given for this purpose in doses of from five to ten grains four times a day, or oftener, according to circumstances. It appears that the antiseptic properties of salol, exhibited with this intention, depend upon its elimination by the kidneys in the form of its constituents— phenol and salicylic acid. Benzoic acid is also recommended as an in- ternal urinary antiseptic, but it is feeble in its action as compared with either of the foregoing. The local preparation of the patient consists in thoroughly scrubbing the genitalia and the surrounding parts with soapsuds and warm water, and then with a solution of bichloride of mercury 1-2000. The urethra should be cleansed, and the bladder too, when possible, with either boric-acid solution, or the combination of boric acid and salicylic acid in solution, known as Thiersch’s fluid. According to Guyon, nitrate of silver in 1-500 solution possesses definite antiseptic properties, and he recommends its use in cases of operation on the urinary organs. Cases of chronic retention due to long-standing tight stricture, or to enlarged prostate, should be approached by the operator with great caution. Guyon1 explains that in this condition, which he calls “in- complete retention with distention,” there is produced a “state of re- ceptivity” of the urinary organs to the invasion of microbes, and that, concomitant with distention of the bladder, ureters, renal pelves and uriniferous tubules, with urine, a congestion of the surface of these organs exists which renders them prone to septic infection. Septic matter introduced from without into the urethra or the bladder, as by a catheter or other instrument, will rapidly infect, under these circum- stances, the whole urinary tract. In patients upon whom it is proposed to perform the operation of litholapaxy, the urethra should first be carefully explored to determine whether the urethra is free from stricture, injury to which by the lithotrite or evacuating tubes, would, by providing a wounded surface through which infection could take place, add to the operation the danger of the occurrence of urinary fever. In such patients, if stricture be found to be present, it will be safer to dilate it up to the required capacity for the easy passage of the crushing and evacuating instru- ments', before attempting litholapaxy. Patients using habitually a catheter upon themselves should be taught to observe antiseptic precautions in the care and employment of the instrument, and also how to wash out the bladder with a mild an- tiseptic fluid, such as boric-acid solution. The preparation of instruments for use upon the genito-urinary tract demands that they should be scrupulously cleansed and subjected to thorough sterilization. Steel instruments may be rendered sterile by boiling. Those made of rubber cannot, obviously, be long subjected to this process without injury. They may be sterilized by dipping them for a moment in boiling water, and then placing them in a bichlo- ride solution, 1-2000, or in one of carbolic acid, 1-10. By observing strict asepsis and the preventive measures as above in- dicated, the occurrency of urinary fever after operations upon the genito-urinary tract will be found to be exceptional. Curative Treatment.—If for any reason an attack should develop, 1 La Semaine Medicale, 4 Mai, 1889.