515 DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. Myers1 reports 177 cases of Hoffa's operation and its modifications, among which are 6 of death which may have been due directly to the operation, making a mortality of 3.3 per cent. Up to the end of August, 1894, Lorenz had operated upon 99 cases of congenital dislocation of the hip-joint without a single failure. At the 66th Assembly of German Naturalists and Physicians, in Vienna, he presented no less than 34 children upon whom he had operated. He says: “Scarcely a trace of limping was noticeable, and the patients walked gracefully and exhibited excellent form of body. The children marched erect and with an almost military step, amidst the outbursts of applause on the part of the illustrious assembly of surgeons.” 2 The experience of American surgeons has not been so favorable as that of Lorenz and Hoffa. Many of the operations have been unsuc- cessful, although done with care and by skilful operators. It has often been found difficult to reduce the dislocation; stiff joints and relapses have at times occurred; and in general the attitude among American orthopaedic surgeons is one to a certain extent of indecision. A very fair statement of the feeling is made by Myers, who agrees with the conclusions of Redard, that after the bloody reposition the number of perfect cures is very small; the number of cases improved is large; the results in double dislocation are not so favorable as those in single; and the limp almost always persists in some degree. In general, the present feeling in regard to the treatment of congeni- tal dislocation of the hip may, I believe, be stated as follows: That traction treatment has been to a large extent a failure; that methods of operation by excision, etc., have not yielded good results; and lastly, that Hoffa’s operation or some modification of it offers the best chance of relief. In these cases the success of the operation will depend largely upon the age of the child and the anatomical conditions peculiar to the individual case. The parents of the child cannot be assured that the operation will be a success, but they may be told that it is not likely to make the child any worse, and that it is attended by very slight risk Diseases of the Knee-Joint.—The affection known as tumor albus and formerly classed as strumous, scrofulous, or fungous synovitis is the most frequent of all diseases of the knee-joint. It is now recog- nized as a tuberculous affection, sometimes beginning in the bone and sometimes in the synovial membrane. The following table, from Wille- mer, shows the frequency with which each structure is attacked:3 Konig reached similar results in analyzing 114 museum specimens, 69 being osseous in origin, 33 synovial, and 12 doubtful. It seems probable from these statistics and others4 that in youth the disease begins in the synovial membrane in about half of the cases, while the others are of osseous origin—whereas later in life the osseous forms predominate much in frequency. 1 Transactions Am. Orthopaedic Association., vol. vii. 1 Ibid., p. 104. 3 Willemer, Deutsch. Zeits. ’f. Glrirurgie, Bd. xxii., S. 268. 4 Clieyne, Brit. Med. Journal, April 4, 1891. to life. Under 10 years, From 10 to 20 “ Above 20 Primarily synovial. . '39 . 49 . 33 Primarily osseous. 61 51 65