210 TUMORS. In fact, the importance of the classification of tumors as a preliminary to their proper study cannot be gainsaid, and naturally the continual discovery of new facts requires repeated alterations in the old systems. The most complete of the recent attempts in this line is that of Monod and Arthaud. They adopt Cohnheim's theory of the origin of neo- plasms from misplaced and surviving particles of embryonic tissue. Monod claims that he has proved in a study of giant-cell sarcoma, un- dertaken with Malassez, that tumors of that form are of endothelial origin, and, when the intimate connection between all sarcomata and the blood-vessels is taken into account, the authors think their endothe- lial origin may be taken for granted. It should be noted, however, that this view has by no means received general acceptance. Their classi- fication is based on the number of layers of the blastoderm concerned in the production of the different varieties, and therefore three great divisions are formed: I. Teratomes, from all three layers—dermoid cysts, for instance. II. Mixed tumors, from one or two layers, includ- ing (1) Ento-mesodermic or ecto-mesodermic, the mixed epitheliomata (cliondromatous, myxomatous, myomatous, sarcomatous, and lipoma- tous); and (2) Mesodermic, the mixed “ endotlieliomata” (chondro- sarcoma, myxo-sarcoma, myo-sarcoma, and lipomatous sarcoma). III. Pure tumors from a single layer, subdivided into (1) Ectodermic: (a) Epithelial type, embracing adenoma and papilloma, typical epitheli- oma, and metatypical epithelioma. (Among the typical epitheliomata are included the pavement, lobulated, “pearl”-bearing, papillary, tubu- lar, glandular, and cornified forms; the metatypical group comprises the enceplialoid, scirrhous, hematode, and reticulated carcinomata.) (b) Adult or differentiated type—neuroma, both myelinic and amyelinic. (2) Entodermic, altogether epithelial, and subdivided just as the last class into adenoma, and typical and metatypical epithelioma. (The adenomata include those of the intestine, etc.; the typical epithelio- mata embrace cylindrical epithelioma of the intestine, stomach, liver, kidney, testicle and ovary, and the mucoid form; the metatypical epitheliomata include the carcinomata of the same organs. Finally, (3) Mesodermic, subdivided into, 1, the endothelial, and 2, the adult or differentiated type. Of the endothelial are (a) angeioma and papilloma (plexiform angeioma and lymphangeioma, papilloma of serous mem- branes) ; (b) typical endothelioma (angeio-litliic sarcoma, giant-cell sarcoma, lymphangeiosarcoma, lymphadenoma, cylindroma, endothe- lioma, endothelial sarcoma, melanotic sarcoma of eye); and (c) meta- typical endothelioma (lympho-sarcoma, diffuse melanotic sarcoma, myxo-sarcoma, and glioma). Of the adult or differentiated type are the connective-tissue growths (chondroma, lipoma, myxoma, and fibroma) and muscular-tissue growths (rhabdomyoma, leiomyoma). This classification includes only the true tumors, and the authors ex- clude rigorously all inflammatory or trophic overgrowths, whether con- nective-tissue or epithelial, such as rheumatic nodules, laminated fibro- mata, keloids, neuromata of amputation, lipomata due to a “diathesis,” bony plaques in serous membranes, exostoses, ecchondromata, “fibro- myomata” of the uterus, warts, retention cysts, goitres, leucaemic lym- phomata, etc. This classification is very complete, and even to those who object to the authors’ derivation of all sarcomatous tumors from the endothelium, there is great interest in following the analogies be-