16 INFLAMMATION. finish our careful study of the work with the conviction that although it is a great one, and likely to be a lasting one, it is the work of a bio- logist pure and simple, and cannot possibly be that of a practical physi- cian or pathologistwhich is a dismissal of the subject that is hardly in consonance with its importance. It is only by such work as this— coming from the experimental laboratory-—that the views of either pathologist or clinician are ever to he enlarged or modified. Chemiotaxis of Leucocytes and Bacterial Infection. A very important branch of the subject that occupies us at present has received attention in the study of the chemiotactic powers of the leucocytes and their relation to bacterial infection. Massart and Bordet1 have studied it very thoroughly. After a number of considerations upon the progress of our knowledge of bacteria, and having spoken of the experiments upon animals in order to make them resistant to the invasion of .bacteria, instancing the fact that phagocytosis and the bacterial condition of the fluids play the principal part in this result, they raise the point that a species of ani- mal which is ordinarily refractory to a bacterium may, under the in- fluence of various causes, become susceptible to its attacks, and that this modification constitutes the predisposition to infectious disease. Among the causes that weaken natural or acquired immunity are (1) the introduction of products secreted by the species of bacterium in- oculated, (2) the introduction of products secreted by a different micro- organism, (3) exposing the animal to conditions unfavorable to its ex- istence, or the production of traumatic lesions, (4) the introduction of certain definite chemical substances, (5) the introduction of anaesthetics. The numberless facts cited permit the following conclusions: That the injection of bacterial products and of certain definite chemical sub- stances, exposing the animal to abnormal conditions of life, as well as the employment of anaesthetics, diminishes the resistance of the econ- omy to an invasion of bacteria. It follows, therefore, that it is necessary to discover by what means the different factors just spoken of act upon the mechanism of infection. Bouchard, to explain this influence, has suggested two theories which will be spoken of hereafter, but first it is necessary to consider the chemiotactic power of the leuco- cytes, for it has been very definitely shown that this kind of irritability of the white corpuscles plays a special part in diminishing immunity. For many years it has been known that certain substances contained in bacterial cultures produce purulent collections at the points where they are injected, and the different experiments upon the subject show dis- tinctly that certain bacterial products have the power of attracting the leucocytes, which are thus brought in contact with the bacteria that attempt to invade the economy, and may destroy them at once, before they have time to secrete great quantities of poison. Metchnikoff’s studies make it more and more probable that immunity rests in great part upon phagocytosis, and in order that this shall take place effectively, the white globules, which are among the most active phagocytes, must collect at the threatened parts of the economy; and 1 Annales de l’lnstitut Pasteur, Juillet, 1891.