745 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE PALATE. Malformations and Diseases of the Palate. Cleft Palate.—Within the past few years the discussion of the question as to the operative or mechanical treatment of cleft of the palate has been revived, and great activity has been manifested in de- vising new methods of operative procedure through which better re- sults as to articulation have been secured. The great difficulty of obtaining the adaptation of a perfectly satisfactory mechanical ap- pliance, and the necessity which exists of its occasional renewal and its constant cleansing, make it desirable to avoid these conditions by ope- ration, even if perfect articulation is not attained by such proced- ure. Diligent investigation, study of results obtained, and repeated efforts by new methods, will, it would seem probable, lead to the removal of difficulties which now prevent perfect results. With the view of giving such movement to the soft palate as will enable it after opera- tion to be placed against the posterior wall of the pharynx, and thus efficiently shut off the nasal from the pharyngeal cavity, Billroth has devised an operation by means of which the mucous membrane at the side of the velum is alone divided and then used to cover the cleft, after the internal plates of the pterygoid processes are severed by the chisel and approximated. This procedure completely relaxes the tensor palati muscles, and permits the palate to be acted upon by the levator palati and palato-pharyngei in such manner as to bring it in contact with the posterior pharyngeal wall. Billroth ascribes the failure to secure the application of the soft palate to the posterior wall of the pharynx, to the division of a circular muscle, the anterior portion of which is contained in the velum. If, in the operation of closure, the remaining part of this muscle be cut through, occlusion of the nasal cavities becomes impossible; hence the incision of only the mucous membrane and section of the internal pterygoid plates. Wolff1 claims great advantages for a plastic operation over the use of mechan- ical appliances. He also discusses the post-operative treatment for the correction of speech troubles. The opinion of surgeons has been modified of late with regard to the time for removal of the sutures. Formerly it was thought desirable to permit them to remain from a period of from six days to a fortnight, and Mr. Heath states that fine wire sutures may be left for weeks or even months, as long as they do not scratch the tongue. My experi- ence has been unfavorable to this practice, fistulous tracks occurring in some instances in the line of the suture as a result of this long reten- tion. I now endeavor to secure removal of all sutures within a period of five or six days, removing one or two on the third or fourth and the remaining on the fifth or sixth day. Rotter, of Munich, describes2 an operation for cleft palate in a case in which there was also a labial fissure. To close the cleft he borrowed a frontal periosteal skin flap with a long pedicle, grafting the raw surface of the flap with epidermal grafts, and holding it with its grafted surface up upon the forehead, with a bandage, for a period of eight days. At the expiration of this time the grafts had taken, giving a skin flap cov- 1 Berliner klinische Wochensehrift, 4 Miirz, 1890. 2 Miinchener medicinische Wochensehrift.