(911) DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. BY HUNTER McGUIRE, M.D., LL.D., OF RICHMOND, VA. Cystitis. The statement of Dr. Owen Rees, quoted in Mr. Harrison’s article,1 does not accord entirely with the results of modern scientific research as to the etiology of acute vesical inflammation. We cannot ignore the important relation which bacterial organisms of various kinds bear to acute and chronic inflammation of the vesical mucous surface. Mechanical irritation may be merely a predisposing cause, and soon becomes associated with germ infection, the traumatism furnishing a site for the action of pathogenic micro-organisms. It is probable that in some instances micro-organisms should properly come under the head of chemical irritants, inasmuch as it is their organic chemical products rather than the bacteria themselves which produce the inflammation. It is not unlikely that this is the true explanation of those fulminant types of cystitis that result from certain surgical procedures undertaken for the purpose of removing tumors, foreign bodies, calculi, etc., from the vesical cavity. There is, under such circumstances, what may he literally termed a culture bed of micro-organisms in the form of a chronic catarrh of the vesical mucosa. The urine, in such conditions, has been conclusively proved to be literally teeming with pathogenic microbes of various kinds. Traumatism opens up avenues for the absorption of these pathogenic microbes and their products, and conse- quently surgical operations upon the bladder are very frequently fol- lowed by the most disastrous consequences. An acute septic cystitis thus arising is occasionally the point of departure for so-called general urinary infection, forming one of the most fatal varieties of the type of general infection which is commonly termed “urethral fever.” The relation of gonorrhoea to cystitis requires some special attention. It is probable that the so-called gonorrhoeal cystitis is not gonorrhoea itself, but the result of a mixed infection. Gonorrhoea is one of the most typical of mixed infections, and although it may be admitted for the sake of argument that the gonococcus is the specific and invariable primary cause of true gonorrhoeal inflammation of the urethra, it by no means follows that the accidents and complications incidental to viru- lent urethritis are of necessity of gonococcal origin. The gonococcus, 'Vol. VI., pp. 229, 230, supra.