SPINAL CARIES. 657 are introduced they become vitalized and frequently waken a process of connective-tissue growth. Osteoblasts grow directly into the old bone as the constituents of the dead hone are re-absorbed and gradually be- come converted into the new; this seems to take place either with or without periosteum. Spinal Caries. The term antero-posterior curvature of the spine is certainly defec- tive, since a curve may have its convexity either forward or back- ward, and the title is just as applicable to lordosis as to kyphosis. The term kyphosis is applicable also to either abrupt bending of the spine or the long, even, backward curve which is commonly seen in rickets, rheumatism, and feeble spine. We can hardly speak of an “angular curvature,” although the term is frequently used to indicate the abrupt- ness of the deformity caused by loss of vertebral bone substance. I cannot agree with Mr. Treves in his remarks in Vol. IV., in regard to the term caries of the spine, since the name is very accurately de- scriptive of the actual process which occurs in so large a proportion of cases that the few minor ones need not be considered. Even though the bone may be exempt and the caries confined (as is rarely the case) to the intervertebral fibro-cartilages, yet these cartilages- are just as much a portion of the spine as are the vertebrae, and the process is still distinctly a caries. Since the publication of Mr. Treves’s article the continued advance in pathology and bacteriology has been so marked, as was then clearly outlined, that there is no longer any hesitancy in regard to the term vertebral tuberculosis, since in the large majority of cases the disease is a local tubercular affection. The term “ Pott’s Disease,” while honoring the name of an individual justly distinguished, is not descriptive of any pathological process. To attach the name of any one to a definite process is inadvisable. If, therefore, we use the term caries of the spine, and even if we add the term tuberculous, we shall in nearly every case be both pathologically and clinically accurate. Etiology of Spinal Caries.—In regard to the effect of heredity and the question of traumatism as factors in producing this condition, it still seems difficult for the ordinary practitioner to realize that local tuberculosis may exist without general evidence of the disease, or with- out any history of heredity. Local tuberculous processes are exceed- ingly common, and in the large majority of cases systemic infection does not take place. This process develops in the vertebra? with greater ease than in other parts of the body, the spongy nature of the bones and their rather complicated articulations favoring the invasion. Whether we term it tuberculous, strumous, or inflammatory, the tendency of this process is to -^generation rather than to organization. The effect of injury as a causative agent, formerly the subject of much discussion, is now plain. It is evident that traumatism is most positively a cause of local tuberculosis from the fact that inflammation following upon injury destroys the resisting power of a particular region vol. vii.—42