WOUNDS. 39 cle cells is not very great, and, although we can no longer accept the theory that wounds of the muscles always heal by the interposition of connective tissue, in the majority of such cases this appears to be true. Karyokmetic figures and consecutive cell-division have been clearly dem- onstrated in both varieties of muscular tissue, showing the opinion for- merly held, that muscular tissue when regenerated was due to prolifer- ation of the interstitial connective-tissue cells, to have been wrong. After section of a striated muscle the fibres bordering on the cut sur- faces lose their vitality and are ultimately absorbed. The nuclei of other muscle fibres increase in number, some of them lying within the contractile tissue (Fig. 1559, a), others at the end of the torn fibre (b) within the sheath of the muscle cell. In both places karyokinetic figures are seen as early as the second day, resulting in the formation of polynuclear cells. Where the latter appear within the muscle fibre, their protoplasm is not sharply defined; there is, on the contrary, a gradual transition from it to the substance of the muscle fibre (c, f, e). As they increase in size in all directions they form projections at the end and the sides of the original fibre, called muscle-buds, which un- dergo ultimate transformation into striated fibres. Quite frequently these buds split up into a number of new fibres, which grow into the tissue, binding together the divided ends of the muscle. The poly- nuclear cells that have appeared as independent protoplasma masses and do not lie within the fibres (6, cl), do not, it seems, take part in the Fig. 15o9. Regeneration in Striated Muscle Tissue. (Ziegler.) formation of new muscular tissue unless they afterwards become con- nected with one of the muscle-buds. The regeneration of unstriped muscular tissue follows the same law, but in man is generally very imperfect, and a loss of substance in the muscular coat of the stomach or intestine is always repaired by a development of cicatricial tissue. In lower animals, however, karyokinetic cell-division of unstriped muscle fibres has been clearly demonstrated. Nervous System.—Regeneration of the central nervous system does not seem to occur to any great extent. Clinical as well as experimen- tal evidence is at hand to show that wounds of the brain are only partly