SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 630 In traumatic psychoses it is very clear that operation is justifiable, and in a number of cases it has been followed by great amelioration, and in not a few by cure. The question of operation on cases of idio- pathic psychoses seems to be still unsolved. III. Trephining in General Paralysis of the Insane.—In 1889 Mr. Claye Shaw 1 reported the first case of trephining for this condition. The operation consisted in the removal on each side of a piece of bone an inch and a half by three-quarters of an inch in extent, and the evacua- tion of considerable fluid. The mental improvement was moderate, but the patient died six months subsequently, with no improvement in his physical condition, though with no mental relapse. In the same journal, for 1890,2 Mr. Shaw reports a second case, and in the reports of St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital3 a third, both followed by some improvement. Batty Tuke4 reports a fourth case, with slight improvement. Rey5 reports another, with notable improvement, of the durability of which however, he expresses some doubt. Wagner6 reports a sixth case, with marked improvement for several weeks. Goodall7 reports another case without any noticeable improvement. McPherson and Wallace8 re- port five others. In their cases bilateral trephining was done in two; the dura was cut away in four; in one, horsehair drainage was em- ployed. These 12 cases include, I believe, all that have been done for this condition up to the present time. The conclusion of McPherson and Wallace, that no improvement is to be expected from operation un- less possibly done at a much earlier period than in any of the reported cases, seems to be justified. The pathology of the condition, whether it be due to increased pressure from cerebro-spinal fluid or to a cor- tical degenerative cerebritis with atrophy of the convolutions, is uncer- tain. But in either case, especially in the latter, the encouragement to interfere is from present experience very slight. Trephining in Meningitis. For the diagnosis and symptoms of meningitis the reader is referred to Mr. Treves’s article9 in the fifth volume of this work. The question of operative interference, especially in view of the success and boldness of modern cerebral -surgery, is one which has only recently arisen, and is not yet settled. Inflammation of the brain, as of other parts of the body, is followed by exudation and suppuration, and the serum or pus cannot escape from the bony skull and so relieve the pressure, as it can in the soft parts. As this exudate or pus, not being able to escape, produces rapid tissue changes and symptoms of pressure, it seems a priori reasonable that we should interfere surgically and offer it a means of escape by trephining, opening the dura, and draining. All surgeons are agreed on the propriety of this treatment when there is localized suppuration, but there is still much difference of opinion as to its pro- priety in the early stages, when the exudate is only serous, and when the 1 Brit. Med. Journal, 1889, vol. ii., p. 1090. 3 St. Barth. Hosp. Reports, 1892, p. 65. 6 Semaine Med., 12 Aout, 1891. Brit. Med. Journal, 1893, vol. ii., p. 117. * Vol. V., p. Ii et seq. 2 Ibid., 1890, vol. i., p. 1364. 4 Brit. Med. Journal, 1890, vol. i., p. 8 6 Amer. Journal of Insanity, July, 1890, 8 Ibid., July 23, 1893, p. 167.