ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 983 vening part is removed, taking care to leave the stumps long enough to avoid all danger of the ligatures slipping. The ends of the ligatures are to be tied together (Bennett), thus bringing the two stumps of the divided veins in contact. If necessary to insure better approximation, an additional catgut suture may be inserted. The skin may be approxi- mated by the subcutaneous suture, or by from two to four catgut sutures, great care being taken to see that the edges are not inverted. In order to guard against this inversion, one or two deep relaxation sutures may be inserted by passing a needle threaded with catgut a quarter of an inch from the edge of the wound, and then back again a short distance from and parallel to its first position, and tying the ends of the thread. It is the practice of some surgeons to use silk ligatures, but the swelling which so readily occurs in this region may render their removal difficult and painful, and, besides, union usually occurs so rapidly as to render their use unnecessary. Some likewise immediately seal the wound with iodoform-collodion, but I distrust it. A drain is unnec- cessary, but if used it may consist of a strand of horsehair or catgut, and should be removed on the first or second day following the opera- tion. When allowed to remain longer in situ it is liable to convey infec- tion to the wound if, as is apt to occur, by any means the movements of the patient displace the dressing. Mr. Bennett judges of the length of the veins which it is desirable to remove by observing how much lower one testicle hangs than the other, but this is apt to lead to a more ex- tensive removal than I believe to be necessary. Mr. Jacobson removes a strip of skin from each side of the incision, in order to brace up the parts, and also sometimes ligates any enlarged scrotal veins which may be present. Sometimes the scrotum is so exceedingly long that it is desirable to resect a portion of it, as otherwise, after healing, it will be found hang- ing almost as low down as it was before. When this is done, the use of the subcutaneous suture, or of the deep relaxation suture of catgut, as already described, with a superficial continuous suture, is particularly useful, as a long scrotal wound will not infrequently become inverted and healing be thereby much delayed. A careful antiseptic dressing should be applied with a large pad of absorbent cotton over it. Through this the penis is made to protrude. The dressings may be retained in place by a T-bandage. In applying the bandage the point of crossing is placed on the abdomen, and the transverse tails are tied around the body. The longitudinal tail, which should be eight inches in width, is to be brought down in front and an opening made for the penis. The remaining portion is then torn into two strips until a point corre- sponding to the perineum is reached. The two tails thus formed are brought around each thigh, and then up, and are fastened to the part around the waist near its junction with the longitudinal strip. Anomalies of the Testicle. Undescended or Misplaced Testicle. (Ectopia Testis.)—Since Mr. Bell reported the operations of Mr. Annandale and Mr. Wood for replacing an undescended testicle in the scrotum, the operation has