640 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. In my first paper I described three different routes by which the lateral ventricles could be reached; the frontal, the occipital, and the lateral. The lateral is decidedly the best route (Fig. 169Y), inasmuch as it passes through no important brain centres, and by it the ventricles can be reached with accuracy. A trephine opening half an inch in diameter is made an inch and a quarter behind and the same distance above the meatus. The brain is then punctured by a tube, No. 5 of the French catheter scale, or by any other suitable instrument, directed to- ward a point (A) 2% inches vertically above the opposite meatus. At a depth of about If or If inches, or less, according to the distention of the ventricle, its cavity will be reached. This can almost always be deter- mined by a sudden diminution of pressure, and by the immediate es- cape of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Continuous drain- age may be kept up, in small amount, by three or four stout, doubled horsehairs, introduced through a canula, or by a rubber or other drain- age tube. In my first case, on the 32d day, by a fountain syringe, the bag of which was raised 6 inches above the head, after tapping the opposite ventricle, the cavities of the two ventricles were irrigated from side to side by a warm boric-acid solu- tion, gr. iv. — f 3 i., with not a little comfort to the child. Boiled water, which was used two days subsequently, gave less relief, but produced no ill effects. The child died on the 45th day, the wound remaining absolutely aseptic. Finding the drainage too sudden, and that the withdrawal of the fluid produced convulsions, in my second case I siphoned from a height of 8 inches, S times in succession, from half an ounce to an ounce of warm boiled water, each siphonage being followed by an arrest of the convulsions. The object to be attained by this operation may be the relief or cure of hydrocephalus or porencephalus, the relief of intracranial pressure, or possibly the evacuation of an abscess or of a collection of blood in the ventricles. The conditions of chronic hydrocephalus and porencephalus may be considered together, as they are not unlike. It is probable that only a very small number of cases of hydrocephalus can thus be cured, but the disease is so distressing and fatal that an attempt to give relief in reasonably favorable cases seems proper, especially as there are on record several instances in which benefit has been obtained. Among those ter- minating fatally were my own second and third cases, and several re- Fig. 1697. Puncture of Lateral Ventricles by Lateral Method.