999 EXCISION OF THE TESTIS—SPERMATORRHOEA. Excision of the Testis. The same precautions against sepsis should be observed in removal of the testicle that have already been detailed in considering the opera- tion for varicocele. It is better to ligate the vessels of the cord sepa- rately than en masse, except, as stated by Kocher, when the tumor is so high as to render the cord inaccessible, or when there is an inguinal tumor. Mr. Harrison 1 says that when the whole cord is included in the ligature the pain is often severe and continuous. Precautions should be taken, particularly when the cord is divided high up, as it should be in malignant disease, that it shall not be drawn up out of reach when severed. It may be secured with haemostatic forceps which are to be removed one at a time as the vessels are ligated. All bleeding is to be absolutely stopped, as otherwise extensive infiltration will occur, and necessitate the reopening of the wound. One hsemostat is allowed to remain until the wound is ready to be closed, so as to bring the cord again into view if the bleeding should recommence. If on account of the high division of the cord the surgeon wishes to have it readily accessible, then a loop of silkworm gut, silver, or silk may be passed through it and be allowed to remain until the next dressing. There is a great tendency for the skin to become inverted and thereby delay healing. To guard against this it is wise to use the subcuta- neous suture, or to pass some deep sutures a quarter of an inch or more from the edges. If these are of silkworm gut or silver (the latter now known to exert an antiseptic action in its neighborhood), they should be fastened to lead plates by means of clamped shot. If these plates are not used the skin swells around them and renders their removal painful and difficult. In lieu of the unabsorbable suture, catgut may be used. Four or five stitches should be passed through and then be brought back again and tied. The superficial wound may be closed with a continuous suture of catgut. A drainage-tube may be used if thought desirable, but should be removed on the day following the operation. Spermatorrhoea. 4 When the conscience of a patient is once aroused concerning bad practices in which he may have indulged, he quite commonly goes to the other extreme and attributes far more serious results to them than they are actually responsible for. As this leads to a serious disturbance of his mental condition, and not unfrequently seriously hampers the physician in his treatment, it is well to bear in mind that so able a man as Sir James Paget has said,2 in his lecture on sexual hypochondriasis, that he believes that one may teach positively that masturbation does neither more nor less harm than sexual intercourse practised with the same frequency in the same conditions of general health and age and circumstances. Hypersesthesia is a marked symptom, or perhaps cause of spermator- 1 Diseases of the Male Urinary Organs, p. 561. 2 Clinical Lectures and Essays, p. 291.