DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 920 increased muscular strain to empty the bladder, the formation of an inter-ureteral muscular buttress, and then compensative prostatic en- largement. Guyon, of Paris, says—and the whole French school agree with him —that the overgrowth is not the result of a local process, but is due to a general atheroma, and that similar alterations are going on at the same time in all the other portions of the urinar}T organs. Sir Henry Thompson 1 says, “I think I am entitled to require that if it does happen, or has happened, to any surgeon to divide or remove any part of an enlarged prostate for a patient who has been compelled to pass all his urine by catheter, say for a period of twelve months, and that after the division in question he has been enabled to dispense with the instrument, or at any rate to pass, say, only half his urine by natu- ral effort, the case ought to be seen and examined by others. I desire extremely to see such a result from any of the proceedings alluded to. I have long wished to see this sight, and have travelled considerable distances abroad and elsewhere expressly seeking it, but at present without success. Such is my report concerning this matter, and I am bound further to add that the restoration of the function by such means can scarcely be expected to occur.” Harrison, Guyon, and Thompson are high authorities, probably the highest we have. But apart from the statements of these gentlemen, when we consider the fearful risk of death after McGill’s operation—generally regarded as the best of all the prostatectomies suggested—from sixteen to twenty percent., and this in the hands of the best operators; when we remem- ber that it is not always possible to remove the obstructing portion in this way, or that the obstruction, though removed, may recur, and that if there is atony of the bladder that organ may never regain its power; when we consider, too, that the patient is usually old, feeble, and broken down in health by long suffering, with nephritic disease threatening or in existence—we naturally ask if there are not some less hazardous ways of getting relief for these cases? Fortunately there are. One of them was suggested in 1884 by Mr. Harrison, and is well described in an appendix to his article. I have operated in this way several times, and with much good to the patient. In 1887, how- ever, I tried drainage by the suprapubic route, and with better and more satisfactory results than I obtained through the perineum.2 The operation is at first a simple suprapubic cystotomy, as described in all works on surgery. The rectum should be distended by a rectal bag, as by this means the bladder is pressed upward and forward, and some- what fixed againt the anterior abdominal wall. This is much better than simply adopting the Trendelenburg position, in which the bladder will fall away from the anterior abdominal wall. No force should be used in distending either the rectum or the bladder. Several instances of rupture of the rectum, and a still greater number of rupture of the bladder, have been reported from overdistention. In the absence of the rectal bag, the rectum may be distended with sponges or cotton. It is much more important to distend the rectum than the bladder. 1 Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 8tli ed., p. 134. 2My first paper on this subject. The Formation of an Artificial Urethra in Prostatic Ob- struction, was read before the American Surgical Association in September, 1888, and appears in the Transactions for that year.