231 METAMORPHOSIS. veloped from the skin in dermoid cysts, but may add that Biermann has observed one in which a sarcoma developed under the skin in such a tumor. Chambard has seen so-called carcinomatous change in two cases of molluscum pendulum, without any preceding ulceration, but accord- ing to his description of their minute structure the growths would seem to have been tubular endothelial sarcomata rather than carcinomata. There has been considerable discussion of the question whether uterine fibro-myomata ever become malignant. Cases are on record of the car- cinomatous infection of myomata which already existed, especially by epithelioma which spread to them from the overlying mucous mem- brane, and of recurrent fibroid tumors (probably carcino-sarcoma); and Liebmann reports a unique case of true myo-carcinoma, in which there grew in the uterus a tumor of mixed myomatous and carcinomatous tissue, and in which the metastases had the same structure of muscle cells and epithelial cells combined. A very strong argument against the occurrence of this change, or at least against its frequent occur- rence, is the number of women in the negro race who are afflicted with fibroma, while they possess relative immunity from carcinoma; for if the degeneration were frequent, they should be more liable to carcinoma than women of the white races. Ovarian cysts are prone to a malignant degeneration, but in a form which differs from what is ordinarily understood by cancer. This change is supposed to occur in them in from If to 17 per cent, of the cases. Very difficult, in fact impossible of explanation is the frequent development of malignant tumors in the pedicle, or in the abdominal wall, after an ovariotomy for an apparently benign cyst. Many such cases are now on record; cases in which the clinical history and appearances at the time of operation gave no hint of malignancy, and yet in which within a few months malignant tumors developed. These tumors evidently differ from the epitlieliomata which occur in cicatrices in any situation, and the only possible theory at present to account for them is the doubtful one that the original tumor at the time of its removal had already begun to undergo malignant degenera- tion, but that the change was so little advanced as to escape notice. Bayer has reported a case in which an ordinary mucous polypus of the nose was followed by malignant recurrence or change, apparently a unique case. Both multiple fibroma and multiple sarcoma of the skin are known, but it is rarely that the two are found in common. Westphalen, how- ever, reports a case of multiple neuro-fibroma of the skin, in which sar- coma developed from one of the tumors; but he could find only two similar cases on record, although the change is one which we should naturally expect to be common when we recollect how much the larger nerve-tumors resemble sarcoma in their structure. As an instance of chronic course in a sarcoma, Hall relates the case of a man who for many years had carried a small subcutaneous tumor of the back without change of symptoms. It was extirpated, and proved to be a sarcoma of small round and spindle cells with little in- tercellular substance. Poulsen reports, among 33 cases of sarcoma of the breast, 10 which had existed for five years or more, and one which had been present for thirty-six years, remaining quiescent until the menopause, when it began to grow rapidly.