IMMUNITY AND PHAGOCYTOSIS. 13 By means of observations on the fin of the tadpole, artificially in- flamed, Metclmikoff has observed that in these animals polynuclear leucocytes can transform themselves by fusion of the nuclei into those of the mononuclear variety, and can indeed become veritable fixed cells of the connective tissue. On these grounds, he considers that the opinion accepted by the Berlin Congress of 1890, that leucocytes, that is, emigrated corpuscles, can play no active part in the formation of tissue, is no longer to be sustained. It is not the new view of Ziegler, but his old one of 1875 and 1876, that is correct, and in support of this assertion Metclmikoff brings forward the facts observed by himself and his pupils, that in rabbits inoculated with tubercle, epithelioid and giant cells are formed in the interior of the vessels at the expense of the mononuclear leucocytes. In this summing up of observations upon leucocytes, it is shown that the two classes of corpuscles that play the principal part in inflamma- tion are the mononuclear leucocytes and the “ neutrophilic” cells. These are the elements endowed with a chemiotactic and pliysiotactic sensi- bility that are capable of amoeboid movements, and that are able to surround and digest foreign bodies, notably the living bacteria. It is certain that, at least in amphibians, polynuclear leucocytes can trans- form themselves into mononuclear corpuscles, and become fixed cells of the connective tissue. In vertebrates in general, mononuclear leuco- cytes can be transformed into epithelioid and giant cells; and all that has been said on the subject of leucocytes applies with equal force to the different varieties of migratory corpuscles. Metclmikoff next goes on to discuss in detail the part played by the endothelial cells of the blood-vessels, and shows that they are contractile, and that this property has much to do with the stomata that are formed in the process of diapedesis. It is also asserted that the endothelial cells can, under certain morbid conditions, quit the vessel wall in virtue of their amoeboid movements, and form a kind of adventitious mem- brane in the interior of the vessel; and that they are also capable of taking up foreign grannies and bacteria. It is admitted that the con- nective-tissue elements play some part in the inflammatory process, chiefly in the production of cicatricial tissue. The plasma cells of the connective tissue are leucocytes that have become immobile, and that can resume their migratory character under the stimulus of inflam- mation; and the “ Mastzellen” of Ehrlich that abound in inflammatory products are regarded as a kind of scavengers for clearing away the detritus of other elements. The emigration of the leucocytes ’ is con- sidered to be determined by the chemiotactic state of the corpuscles, in- duced by the poisonous microbic agency employed, rather than hv any condition of the vessel wall or circulating blood. The axial and the peripheral arrangement of the blood corpuscles is not looked upon as in any way due to mechanical causes, and it is asserted that Cohnheim overlooked the influence of the nervous system in the causation of in- flammatory hvpersemia and diapedesis. Metclmikoff considers that the sensibility of the leucocytes plays the most weighty part in inflamma- tory maladies, although this does not mean that in the vertebrates en- dothelial sensibility, nervous influences, and other functions may not also take part in the process. In acute inflammation, there is a vascular dilatation, an active state