466 DISEASES OF BONES. pital, a painless swelling below Poupart's ligament, in a colored woman, was found to be dependent upon caries of the lumbar portion of the spinal column, and to be the lower part of an abscess cavity which was easily probed from the groin along the inner side of the ilium, to a point above its crest near the spine, where a counter-opening was made for the passage of a large drainage-tube. Such a case illustrates, as every surgeon knows, the great extent to which the lesions of tubercu- lous osteitis may go before surgical advice is taken. In these cases the progress of the disease is very slow, but, on the other hand, it may be very rapid; as was seen in another case, under the care of Dr. 0. H. Allis in the same hospital, where a man of seemingly excellent health sustained a violent contusion of the patella, followed by rapid disinte- gration and the formation of ossifluent sinuses, necessitating the re- moval of the entire bone. This case precisely parallels the experimental tuberculosis produced by Schuller by injuring the bone and inoculating the subject with tuberculous matter. Treatment of Tuberculosis of the Bones.—This is partly constitu- tional and partly local. Slow as is the course of the disease in many cases, and slight as are the accompanying constitutional manifestations, it is desirable to treat it by those means which are ordinarily useful in the treatment of tuberculosis elsewhere. This includes the use of cod-liver oil, the hypopliosphites, iodoform, creasote, guaiacol, and similar agents, continued for a long time, and with perseverance, as in other forms of tuberculosis. A word should be said in regard to the treatment of tuberculosis of the bones by the tuberculin of Koch. This may now be said to be abandoned. The enthusiasm with which it was at first received has entirely disappeared, and tuberculin, if used at all, must be regarded as a purely experimental agent and not one of demonstrated value. The local treatment of tuberculosis consists usually in the fixation of joints, the prevention of motion, cauterization, the injection of astrin- gent materials, or the removal of the diseased tissue by the knife or by suitable dull or partly sharp instruments. In regard to the former methods, little that is novel has appeared since the previous volumes of this Encyclopaedia were issued. A good deal of attention has been attracted to the plan of injecting curative, irritating, or hardening fluids into the diseased tissue, in cases of joint tuberculosis. Of the curative agents, iodoform is probably the most striking example. This has been used dissolved in ether, or partly dissolved and partly sus- pended in oil or glycerin. Carbolic acid, nitrate of silver, and tincture of iodine, as also perchloride of iron and chloride of zinc, have likewise been employed. There can be no doubt that good results are obtained by any material which will convert a tuberculous focus into a mass of dead but sterilized tissue. A mode of treatment of surgical tuberculo- sis strongly recommended by Max Schuller consists in the combination of medical treatment with surgical, as suggested above. He adminis- ters to tuberculous patients benzoate of sodium, creasote, guaiacol, and cod-liver oil, in a way which has much to recommend it theoreti- cally. Personally I have confidence in the use of creasote and guaiacol, as constitutional remedies in the treatment of surgical tuberculosis, as well as of tuberculosis of the lungs.