667 CONGENITAL SACRO-COCCYGEAL TUMORS—LORDOSIS. thorough hygienic, mechanical, and fixation methods should he insti- tuted for a long time before operative interference is attempted, since it is a well-known fact that a large proportion of patients with pres- sure paraplegia recover. It is to be presumed, however, that these cases were of the most helpless class, and that all other means had been exhausted without benefit. As far as recorded, 70 of these cases were in males and 35 in females, while the respective numbers of children and adults were 75 and 43. The dorsal region was the seat of disease in ninety-eight cases, the cer- vical in twelve, and the lumbar in six. Wiring of the Spinous Processes.—Hadra1 has proposed to wire together the spinous processes of the diseased vertebrae, thus preventing the approximation of the anterior portions of the column, and compel- ling Nature to bridge the chasm. He gives no cases in which this operation has been practised, but simply suggests it. Wilkins2 has modified this plan by passing a figure-of-eight wire suture through the intervertebral foramina. Puncture of the Spinal Canal.—Wynter3 and Quincke advise puncture of the canal to relieve pressure in cases of tubercular menin- gitis. The trunk being flexed, a small trocar may be driven into the space between the second and third lumbar arches. Sahl and Naunyn1 have also performed the operation a number of times. Congenital Sacro-Coccygeal Tumors. Mr. Treves’s article in Yol. IV. leaves but little to be said of these tumors. In the majority of cases complete excision and non-interference are the only methods of treatment to be employed. Borges successfully removed a congenital lipoma from the meninges in the lumbo-sacral region of a child eight years old. The only similar case is reported by Johnson. Lordosis. The most common causes of lordosis are rickets and infantile paraly- sis, with the resultant deformity of the lower limbs and atrophy of the muscles in the latter disease. Curvature of the spine and extreme lordosis are not uncommon, especially in the contractions of the rectus and tensor vagime femoris, with secondary shortening of the psoas and iliacus. This condition, if of long standing, can only be relieved, after myotomy of the contracted muscles, by long-continued extension in bed. 1 Trans. Am. Orthop. Asso., 1891, p. 200. 2 St. Louis Med. and Surg. Jour., 1888, p. 341. 3 Lancet, 1891. 4 Univ. Med. Mag., Aug., 1893; Wiener med. Presse, No. xix., 1893.