571 CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR ABSCESSES. Wounds of the Membranes. Wounds of the dura mater when possible must be sutured with fine catgut; any deficiency may be repaired by a piece of pericranium, or pos- sibly the future evils of adhesion between the scalp and brain may be obviated by placing over the brain an aseptic piece of heavy dentist's gold foil, cut so as to extend a short distance beneath the margins of the bony defect. Cerebral and Cerebellar Abscesses. These are never primary, but are secondary to such conditions as puru- lent periostitis and osteitis of the cranial bones; injuries to these bones, to the soft parts covering them, or to the underlying intracranial con- tents; or suppurations in the course of the lesser circulation, as in abscess of the lung, foetid bronchitis, chronic empyema, etc. Ab- scesses from chronic suppurative ear disease, the most common cause, will be found treated of elsewhere. Operations upon the nose, such as those for the removal of polypi,1 have also produced abscesses of the brain—in one case there having been a focus of suppuration in each frontal lobe—so that it is well to bear in mind the possibility of there being more than one pus collection. 2 Zeller reports a case in which a phlegmonous process in the orbit was the starting-point of a brain abscess.3 4 Symptoms.—As large abscesses, for instance one in the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, increase the general intracranial tension by augment- ing that of the cerebro-spinal fluid, the symptoms, in the absence of a clear history as to the sequence of the phenomena, are often obscure, and even at times misleading; fortunately, however, the pressure is usu- ally so transmitted through the semi-solid brain substance that the neighboring centres are those most and first involved. In a general way the symptoms are those of pus formation, of general disturbance of cerebral function, and, in special cases, focal symptoms, as for in- stance, sensory, acoustic, or motor aphasia. Optic neuritis is often pres- ent, and occasionally reverses the rule, being more marked upon the side opposite the abscess. Tenderness upon pressure or to percussion over a limited area, with local elevation of temperature, is frequently noted. The chill which so commonly precedes an abscess in other localities is quite common, but the subsequent elevation of temperature, if it occur at all, is soon replaced by a normal or a subnormal tempera- ture/ possibly rising near the termination of the process, often with de- lirium and with a second subsidence of the thermometer. The other symptoms, such as headache, vomiting, etc., are not peculiar to abscess, and have been noticed in my former article. No special focal symp- 1 Parke, Medical News, Dec. 3, 1890, p. 617. 2 Ransohoff, Journal of the Med. College of Ohio, 1892. 3 Crawford Renton, Annals of Surgery, vol. iv., p. 334. 4 See a case of Murdock’s (Annals of Surgery, vol. ii., p. 81) where the fact that the pus was subdural, that is, a circumscribed collection due to adhesions probably arising from meningitis, gave a high temperature throughout, contrasting forcibly with the condition where the brain tissue is alone involved.