977 AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. the urethra out at the perineum and made a separate sac for each testi- cle. Lallemand in lS-tl repeated the operation, as did Bouisson, twice, in 1855, and Roux in 1857. Thiersch adopted the same procedure in 1875 or 1877. In 1862 Wattmann ' split the scrotum, encircled the penis, and then separated the corpora cavernosa from the rami of the pubis. The urethra was then fixed in the perineum and the scrotum was united. Demarquay 2 says in describing the operation that “the two corpora cavernosa are dissected out until their insertion into the ischium is reached, when they are detached with care.” Mr. A. Pearce Gould,3 before the Medical Society of London, described his method of operating. He split the scrotum, dissected out the urethra as far back as the triangular ligament, scraped off the attach- ments of the crura to the bone by means of a periosteal elevator, and sticlied the urethra in the perineum. Wheelhouse,4 in one case, after amputation of the penis removed the testicles also. He says that, although it added greatly to the severity and danger of the operation, tlie patient made an excellent recovery and many times spoke to him with the greatest gratitude and thankfulness for the complete relief afforded. Another patient in an adjoining bed, in whom the penis had been amputated without castration, said to Mr. Wheelhouse that he wished that while he had been about the business he had made a com- plete sweep of everything for him as well as for his neighbor. Tlio testicles were, from first to last, a cause of trouble and distress. Soon after the operation they became swollen, and remained tender for some time; they were there as a possible seat for the return of the disease, and, by their physiological action, were a constant source of annoyance. Mr. Wheelhouse says that while one patient was, as far as possible, com- pletely relieved, the other was only partially so. In a discussion on the subject before the Medical Society of London, Mr. A. Pearce Gould ex- pressed himself against the removal of the testicles unless there was some special indication. He thought the necessity for sexual indul- gence much overrated. Mr. J. Morgan doubted the propriety of sub- jecting the patient to the increased risk from shock, and Mr. Walter Pye, while he thought that the increased risk was hardly a sufficient objection, still considered the removal of the testes undesirable. Mr. Jacobson,5 in referring to Mr. Wbeelhouse's case, says that when the patient is advanced in life, or where his vitality is greatly depressed, castration should not be performed; but that in cases where there is reason to believe that castration will prove beneficial, he is in the habit of advising patients to have it done. In three cases they were most thankful for the result. Mr. Reginald Harrison,6 after passing a staff into the bladder, taps the urethra through the perineum and introduces a drainage-tube. Amputation of the penis is performed a week subsequently, the urethra being closed by a couple of stout catgut ligatures. This method of operating may be of service in cases of debilitated patients in whom a more severe operation would be likely to prove fatal. 1 Linhardt’s Operationslehre, 1862, S. 823. 2 Maladies Chirurgicales du Penis, p. 418. Paris, 1877. 3 Lancet, vol. i., 1882, p. 821. 4 British Medical Journal, 1886, vol. i., p. 1886. 5 Loc. cit., p. 731. 6 Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs. VOL. VII.— 62