SEPTICiE.MIA. 101 usual continuous and high fever is one of the principal features of this disease, it is only natural that a great many physicians should have paid special attention to the relief of this symptom. They have thought to achieve good results and to influence the disease itself when they have attacked and succeeded in overcoming this most threatening and striking feature. But what has been said in regard to high fever and its treatment in erysipelas, holds good in septicaemia as well. First of all, we deprive ourselves of one of the most trustworthy indicators of the status of the disease, by lowering the temperature. Since the teaching of Barensprung-Liebermeister, that temperatures beyond I05f° could not be survived by man, has been proved incorrect by Unverricht, Kursehmann, Eiclihorst, Naunyn, Heubner, von Jacksch, Franzel, Strumpell, and others, we have learned that the lowering of high temperature is not the most important element in the treatment of fever. Besides the first point mentioned above, it is more than prob- able that the conception prevalent among Volkmann’s disciples is cor- rect, that the high temperature produced by septic infection is a reaction of the system which effects a sort of self-protection, most bacilli being unable to bear any markedly increased heat. In fact, the correctness of this opinion has been experimentally proved beyond doubt by K. Wagner.1 He showed that animals injected with the poison of anthrax, and prevented from getting fever by hanging their lower extremities in water at 77° F., all died, while other animals kept for control and injected with the same dose, not being prevented from having high temperatures, F|0 and more above normal, all survived. Of a large number of other animals injected with antipyrine as an antipyretic, one half died. Besides all this, artificial lowering of the temperature is attended by another great danger, viz., collapse. The principal point in treating fever seems to be much more to sup- port the action of the heart, which has to accomplish nearly double its normal work. This is best achieved, in spite of all that has been said against it, especially by English and some American authors, by the administration of large doses of alcohol, in any of its different forms. Compare what has been said upon this subject in describing the treat- ment of erysipelas. Billroth has advised the encouragement of diaphoresis in septic pa- tients by using well-known medicaments, and specially by warm baths of one hour’s duration. Since Brunner and others have discovered the staphylococcus pyogenes in the sweat of animals and men infected with this specific micro-organism, the correctness and practical value of this practice are established beyond doubt. Septic diarrhoea must be treated by opiates, tannin, subnitrate of bismuth, acetate of lead, enemas of starch with tannin, opium, etc. Unfortunately we often meet with small success from these remedies, especially if the movements occur as often as every fifteen or thirty minutes, when the}7 will be mucous, watery, and often bloody. If col- lapse sets in, injections of ether and musk must be given, but can, of course, be only of temporary value. Special attention must be paid to the avoidance and, if they occur, to the treatment of bed-sores. There is hardly any other disease where bed-sores develop so easily and to such an extent. A septic patient 1 Of the Importance of Temperature in Infectious Diseases. (Vrach, 1890, Nos. 39-40.)