423 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. head of the bone was broken into three portions by great violence, in an adult, is recorded by Adams.1 Fracture just below the insertion of the biceps, in a man aged 22, who fell on a floor, has been noted by Bird.2 The forearm was kept in supination, and it is stated that recovery was perfect. Fracture of both bones of the forearm is said by Humphry3 to have been seen by him as the result of convulsions in whooping-cough, in a child. Several instances of serious consequences from these injuries have been reported. In one, by Puzey,4 a boy aged 15 bad a compound fracture, the union of which was delayed, and there was progressive paralysis of the ulnar nerve, with wasting, and “clawing” of the fin- gers; the nerve was freed by operation, and function was gradually but completely restored. In another, by Lane,6 a simple fracture of both hones gave rise on the twentieth day to extensive thrombosis, with much oedema, pain, and tenderness; another attack occurred in three weeks, and still another two weeks later involved the innominate and internal jugular veins, threatening life; this gradually subsided, but came on again in twenty-five days, and once more seven weeks after that. Union failed in the radius. Molitor6 quotes from Jungst a case in which a simple fracture of both bones of the forearm by machinery caused occlusion of the brachial artery, and gangrene of the limb. The resulting deformity is sometimes troublesome, as in a case re- corded by Gayraud,7 in which a girl 8 months old had both forearms broken; when seen by him twenty months later, on the right side union had taken place with the fragments at a right angle “like a second elbow;” on the left side the angle was less marked. Straightening was successfully accomplished. Robson 8 saw a boy 6 years old, who four years before had been run over by a cart, and had probably sustained a fracture of both bones; he had had no treatment, but the only trace of the injury was a pro- jection of the radius upward and inward just below its head; supination was impaired. Dr. H. R. Wharton has mentioned to me that in 1888 he saw a boy aged 12, who by a fall from a horse had sustained “a fracture of the lower end of the radius, with great deformity, the hand being markedly drawn inward, and the ulna being decidedly curved in the same direction, the point of greatest curving being about two inches above the styloid process. In making pressure to reduce the deformity, the ulna gave way with a snap at the point above mentioned.” Reduction was then easy, and the boy recovered “with a very perfect arm.” Three years ago I had at the Pennsylvania Hospital a boy aged 8 years, who some months previously had had both bones of his right forearm broken about an inch above the wrist. Necrosis of the frag- ments followed, and I removed the end of the ulnar diaphysis and part of the radial, leaving the epiphyses in place. 1 Trans, of the Pathological Society of London, 1871. 2 Australian Med. Journal, May 15, 1889. 3 British Med. Journal, Nov. 15, 1884. 4 Ibid., May 16, 1885. 5 Medical Times and Gazette, May 3, 1884. 6 Beitrilge zur klin. Chirurgie, 1889. 1 Gaz. Hebdom. des Sciences Med. de Montpellier, 3 Sept., 1887. 8 Lancet, March 21, 1885.