858 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. together by the exudate, thus forming a posterior wall to the abscess cavity, and giving rise to the percussion dullness and the tumor. Appendiceal abscesses will sometimes open into the rectum or the vagina, or may burrow backward into the lumbar region, particularly if the appendix is attached in that direction; and in neglected cases of suppurative appendicitis the abscess has been known to find its way behind the liver into the pleural sac, or into distant parts of the abdom- inal cavity. While the classification is rather arbitrary, yet most cases can be studied under three divisions, viz., catarrhal, simple catarrhal, oblit- erating, or relapsing appendicitis; suppurative appendicitis; and per- forative, acute, or gangrenous appendicitis. Catarrhal appendicitis is the form most frequently met with; the inflammation begins in the mucous membrane, is associated with catarrhal exudate or ulceration, and under favorable conditions is fol- lowed by subsequent cicatrization, with constriction and obliteration, or on the other hand distention, according to the seat and character of the pathological changes. It is in the catarrhal form of appendicitis, espe- cially when the inflammation is subacute, that there is very little dis- position to spontaneous recovery; and these cases should always be looked, upon as menacing the life of the patient, a possible exception being in those instances in which the appendix becomes obliterated and is shut off by smooth adhesions from the peritoneal cavity. In these cases of catarrhal appendicitis, with localized peritonitis, the induration resulting from the exudate may remain for months after the primary condition has become quiescent. Cases of catarrhal appendicitis pre- sent largely a condition of continued constipation before the onset of the disease; and the overdistended csecum, with consequent irritation and catarrhal inflammation, provides unusual facilities for the spread of inflammation by continuity. The exciting cause of that spread of inflammation is undoubtedly the Bacillus coli communis, which quickly infects the peritoneum. This organism, under favorable conditions, is capable of penetrating the walls of the appendix, causing the most virulent inflammatory reac- tion. In gangrene of the appendix, removed early, pure cultures of this organism have been found, while examinations made in other cases, both of the fulminating and of the suppurative type, have uni- formly shown the presence of the colon bacillus. It is not always found alone. Other organisms, such as the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus and the Streptococcus pyogenes, have also been found in cases of mixed infection, but it is a question of considerable doubt whether the ordinary organisms of suppuration are capable of causing appen- dicitis. Where the Bacillus coli communis becomes virulent, its energies are not alone directed against the peritoneum, but also against the intes- tinal contents. Decomposition fermentation occurs, with the deve- lopment of poisonous ptomaines and other deleterious animal pro- ducts, which when absorbed produce profound systemic intoxication. Hence a careful examination of the exudate in appendicitis is likely, under many circumstances, to furnish a clew to more accurate prog- nosis. Catarrhal appendicitis is ushered in sometimes by a slight chill, with