INJURIES OF THE BACK. BY LEWIS A. STIMSON, M.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. Dislocations, Fractures, and Fracture-Dislocations of the Vertebrae. It seems desirable, in view of the increasing frequency of resort to operation in spinal injuries, to call attention to the possibility of com- plete, irremediable, instantaneous destruction of the spinal cord with- out permanent displacement or recognizable deformity of the column. The injury appears to be produced in some cases by overstretching of the cord in forced flexion of the column, especially in the cervical re- gion, aided sometimes by fracture of one or both laminae; when the flex- ion ceases the parts are at once restored to place, and no deformity remains to indicate what has occurred. The following case, reported by Dr. Edward 0. Otis,1 is quoted in illustration: A lad, 17 years old, fell about five feet, head-foremost, upon a mattress in a gymnasium, striking in such a way that his head was bent so far forward that his face must almost have rested upon his breast. Complete paralysis from a little below the clavicles. He survived until the sixth day. The autopsy showed a fracture of the laminae of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, but no displace- ment, and no rupture of any of the ligaments of the spinal column. At the point corresponding to the fracture the dura was moderately injected, and the cord was soft and diffluent. A somewhat similar case was reported by Dr. McBurney to the New York Surgical Society in 1892; the patient, an elderly man, fell down- stairs and was completely paralyzed below the neck, except the dia- phragm. He survived a week in perfect bodily comfort and died sud- denly. The autopsy showed a transverse horizontal fracture of the body of one of the cervical vertebrae without .displacement, and a com- plete division of the cord. Treatment of Fractures and Fracture-Dislocations.—It is not easy at the present time to lay7 down positive rules for the treatment of these injuries, for various modifications of, or additions to, those that have heretofore seemed proper and sufficient are now undergoing trial. The tendency is decidedly toward more active interference; attempts 1 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Sept. 15, 1892. ( rH5)