SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 148 immune to tuberculosis by artificial means, where internal immuniza- tion is not accomplished. While this article does not claim completeness in even mentioning all the remedies used for treatment since the previous volumes of this work appeared, it would be dereliction not to mention two remedies which have been accepted quite universally, creasote and iodoform. Creasote was first used by Bouchard and Gimbert in 1877 for the treatment of tuberculosis, and was reintroduced by Frantzel and Som- merbrod in 1887. The latter has made a “method” of the treatment in that he uses enormous doses, from 1 to 4 grammes daily, combined with cod-liver oil. It has been conclusively proven that creasote exerts no influence upon the bacilli; it must therefore act indirectly, possibly by influencing metabolic processes so that general nutrition is improved. It has been especially recommended in the treatment of phthisis pul- monalis and the so-called scrofulous processes. Even upon this subject do we find quite an extensive literature, and the evidence seems to be favorable to this method. It has seemed to me that the large doses of creasote are unnecessary; small doses of creasote with large doses of cod-liver oil do just as well. Care must be taken to have good speci- mens of both remedies. The active principle of creasote, the so-called guaiacol, has also been extensively used; after the statements of Kobei t, and m view of Wyss’s case of fatal poisoning by its employment, it may be found very advisable to limit its dose. Iodoform has been especially used in surgical tuberculosis, and with the best results, being injected into the affected parts in suspension. It has also been given internally in gastro-intestinal tuberculosis. The action of iodoform upon tubercle is not understood; it kills the bacillus in from two to three weeks, when in suspension (Troje and Tangl); but simultaneous introduction of iodoform and tubercle bacilli into an ani- mal has resulted in tuberculosis (Baumgarten, Kunz, Rodzing), and ex- perimental tuberculous abscesses are not cured in animals, as they are in man. Views vary as to the nature of its effect, whether upon the bacilli or upon the tissue, but all writers seem inclined to believe in the beneficial effects of the drug. The tendency to spontaneous cure of tuberculous processes, where the tissue is given the proper opportunity, has been abundantly proven by surgeons. Complete rest of a tubercular joint, which forms the basis of nearly all orthopaedic procedures in joint disease, with proper atten- tion to the general condition of the patient, shows that without active interference tuberculosis can get well. The same has been, in a measure, proven for the treatment of the internal organs; up to the present time, all those remedies which attack the tubercle or its surroundings have proven failures; the best results are obtained by acting indirectly upon the process. Even the brilliant results obtained in tuberculosis of serous membranes, by opening the cavity and exposing it to the air, cannot be looked upon as contradict- ing this statement.