CAESAREAN OPERATIONS AND SYMPHYSEOTOMY. 1010 her age, cause of difficulty, number of hours in labor, the attempts made to deliver, and the condition presented by her when the section was commenced. The necessity for this operation is largely produced by poverty, in its deforming influence upon the development and growth of the pelvis; and the subjects of it are very rarely such as live in comfortable circumstances, as to house, ventilation, and diet. When this country was young and sparsely settled, it was held that Caesarean women were much more likely to get well in their own homes than if treated in a hospital; and the results at that time appear to have war- ranted men in holding that opinion. But now the hospital has many advantages over the abodes of poverty, and patients, for a number of reasons, have a better prospect of recovery, particularly when they have entered the hospital prior to the access of labor. Great changes have been effected in hospital construction and ventilation, and in the aseptic management of surgical cases; so that patients are now safer in hospi- tal than they were formerly at their own homes. It was generally thought, until recently, and is still held by some, that the Caesarean section should not be performed until after the commencement of labor; but the results of Caesarean horn-rips, in women advanced in preg- nancy, have demonstrated that it is not an essential of success, or safety, that the patient shall have been in labor prior to the use of the knife. When the uterus is torn open, or incised, in a woman advanced in pregnancy, it is a very rare and exceptional case for the uterus not to be excited to immediate contraction. As 10 women and 1 children have been saved after 14 Caesarean horn-rips, it is not to be claimed that the Caesarean operation is increased in danger by being performed prior to the commencement of labor; on the contrary, the experience in the United States of recent years teaches that an operation before labor is far safer than one performed after uterine contractions have been long in action. It has been well established that uterine inertia is a product of muscular fatigue, and that to secure a continued contrac- tion after delivery, the muscular power of the organ should not have failed through overwork. We are also to consider the fact that women who require Csesarean delivery are often dwarfs in height and develop- ment, and readily become exhausted under the futile efforts of.the uterus to expel its contents; and we are also to bear in mind that peritonitis is an adynamic disease in many parturient women, and that its production is favored by a condition of physical exhaustion. The greatest step that has ever been made in diminishing the propor- tion of deaths in women delivered under the Csesarean section, was the introduction of multiple suturing of the uterine wound, and particu- larly the universal adoption of the closure of this incision by sewing its edges together. This wound has been secured by sutures, occasion- ally, during more than a hundred years, and the step w7as for a long period very forcibly condemned and regarded as dangerous. By slow degrees it grew into favor and became, about thirteen years ago, the general practice of operators. Since 1882, under the teachings of Dr. Sanger of Leipsic, and others in Germany, the employment of many deep and superficial sutures of carbolized silk has been advocated, in order that the individual tension upon the stitches may be reduced. There is a disposition on the part of certain operators to break away from this plan, and to employ only deep sutures and not many of them; but the