RESULTS OF TREATMENT IN CARCINOMA. 299 Such are the results of the operative treatment of cancer. In spite of the general and great improvement over those of former times, it must be acknowledged at the outset that even free removal is no sov- ereign remedy. It may he said with truth that if the disease is attacked in time it can be cured by a radical operation, but that single limita- tion prevents the universal success of operative treatment, for there must always remain the internal cancers which do not give symptoms until they are too far advanced to be completely eradicated, and also a large proportion of external tumors which, owing to the carelessness or ignorance of their victims, are not observed until it is too late for successful interference. As Winter puts it, supposing that cne case in four of uterine cancer can be cured by operation, and only one case out of four which come to the surgeon is suitable for operation, we can save only one woman in sixteen of those attacked by the disease. We must therefore still desire a remedy which may cure the disease in any stage and in any situation, without damage to the surrounding parts, in some such way as mercury and potassium iodide act upon the lesions of syphilis. As we have seen in speaking of sarcoma, there appears to be some ground for hoping for an advance in this direction, since the experiments of Fehleisen, Spronck, and Coley have shown that at least in some cases it is possible to check the progress and even cause the absorption of malignant tumors by inoculation with the germs of ery- sipelas, or even by hypodermic injection of the sterilized products of cultures of these germs. In the mean time, let us hold the advantage we have gained and try to increase it, as may undoubtedly be done. The first step toward the improvement of operative results must come through the family phy- sician—the general practitioner. Not until he is fully convinced that an operation will cure the disease if attacked in the early stages, and not until he is able to make an early diagnosis, can we secure the full value of this method of treatment. On him depends the entire ques- tion. Winter interrogated 56 patients with uterine cancer who applied at the Frauenklinik in Berlin, and found that IT of them had first had advice upon their symptoms, which were often vague enough at the beginning, from their family physicians, and that only one-third of the number reached the clinic in time for satisfactory operations. The reason was evident on closer questioning, for in only one-half of the cases had the attending physician made any immediate examination of the parts, and in one-third no examination whatever. It is not sur- prising, therefore, that of every fifteen only three were found suitable for an attempt at operative treatment. The same holds true of carcinoma of the breast. In a very consider- able proportion of the cases which I have seen, the patients have told me that their physicians had examined the tumor in the breast, and had declared that it was of no importance, that it would pass away, or would not grow larger, or had even given that commonly offered false explanation, “It is the change of life.” Nowit appears improbable that all of these physicians were so ignorant or so negligent as not to consider the possibility of cancer, and I believe that the chief reason for delay and neglect in such cases is the lack of faith in operative treat- ment, which not only prevents the physician from urging early opera- tion, but acts indirectly by leading him to neglect the proper study of