HEMORRHAGIC BURSITIS. 397 the introduction of a sufficient number of drainage-tubes, and fixation of the joint, are imperatively demanded.1 Treatment of Bursje Communicating with Joints, and of Synovial Hernle. The positive injunction not to adopt any more active treatment than aspiration of the contents of these sacs, should be modified with our knowledge of the safety of aseptic procedures. Certainly aseptic inci- sion into joints is, in competent hands, a safe operation, so that where the anatomical relations permit, and the disability warrants some slight risk, I do not see why the synovial or bursal sac may not properly be dissected out, either wholly or in part, and the opening through the capsule, when accessible, carefully sutured with fine catgut; indeed the first part of these suggestions has now been successfully adopted in a sufficient number of cases where bursse have communicated with ar- ticulations, to strengthen the opinion here expressed, to which I had in- dependently been led by a -priori consideration of the subject. Mani- festly, when synovial lierniae complicate decided chronic articular disease, as of the knee, an operation for their relief is contra-indicated. Hemorrhagic Bursitis. Under this title Lejars2 has described a chronic condition analogous to pachysynovitis hemorrhagica, where, without traumatism, the con- tents of a bursa become sanguineous, being blackish, thick, and mixed with yellowish clots. Occasionally pure red blood or clots may occupy the sac; in a recent case of my own, where under my direction my assistant. Dr. Darling, opened a chronically enlarged ilio-psoas bursa, this condition was found. Volkmann has detected in at least one similar case conditions apparently identical with those found in pachy- meningitis and in hsematocele of the tunica vaginalis testis. Diagnosis.—This can perhaps be made by recognizing during man- ipulation the crepitation produced by the mutual friction of clots, when these are present, but in most instances incision or puncture first shows that the tumor is not an ordinary chronic enlargement of a bursa. 1 For the result of temporizing instead of employing the bolder but safer methods advocated, see Lancet, 1880, vol. i., p. 427. Enlargement of semi-membranosus bursa after injury ; sup- puration extending to knee-joint; aspiration ; amputation. 2 A. J. Silcock reports three cases of disease of the gastrocnemio-semimembranosus bursa, in two of which he dissected the sac free and tied off the pedicle with chromicized gut, in the remaining case merely excising the cyst-wall as far as possible; in all three instances the bursa communicated with the knee-joint. He also mentions a similar case reported by Johnson Smith, but the reference is incorrectly given and I cannot verify it (Brit. Med. Jour- nal, 1889, vol. i. p. 474). H. H. Clutton mentions two bursal tumors closely related respec- tively to the shoulder and knee joints, viz., the supraspinatus and that under the outer head of the gastrocnemius, which he successfully dissected out, but which he believed did not com- municate with the joints. More cases need not be cited in support of the position taken, although many more such could doubtless be found by careful perusal of the literature of the subject.