990 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. even when no operative interference has been practised, are common. Notwithstanding this, it still remains true that, while tubercular dis- ease of the testis may remain quiescent for a long time, it still is apt to start into full activity at any moment, or on the occurrence of any disturbance of the parts. The functional value of the organ is certainly diminished if not entirely absent. Mr. Curling 1 well expresses the condition when he says that in tubercular disease of the gland the secretion of semen, if not abolished, is small in quantity, and is scantily furnished with spermatozoa. When the disease obstructs the vas deferens it is evident that the organ has no functional value. To allow a tuberculous deposit to remain in one testicle directly favors the out- break of the affection in the other. In from twenty to thirty per cent, of all cases both testicles became attacked, while in Finkh’s twenty cases in which only one testicle was diseased and removed, there was not a single instance in which the disease attacked the remaining testi- cle. Our conservative means of treating a tuberculous testicle are of almost no value. They consist in suspension of the affected organ, a residence at the seaside, and the administration of cod-liver oil, syrup of the bypopliosphites, and other tonics. They are palliative rather than curative. When one testicle only is affected, then, in view of the facts, that conservative measures are almost useless; that even if a temporary subsidence should occur the benefit would only be temporary; that there is a great probability of the other testicle becoming speedily involved ; that the function of the organ is impaired or destroyed ; that the prognosis after castration is good (only 6 out of 28 patients having recurrences); and that life is positively endangered if an operation is not done—I am of the firm belief that the diseased testicle should be at once removed. When one testicle only is affected, partial opera- tions, such as partial excision or curetting, should only be done when the patient will not consent to the removal of the entire organ. The disease should be attacked at once. That there may be only a single nodule is no excuse for delay. It simply gives time for the affection to extend itself. How often does one see in an excised testicle a single large focus surrounded by a number of smaller and more recent nodules? As soon as the condition is seen and positively diagnosed the testicle should be removed, or if this is not allowed the affected spot should be excised, or at least opened up and all the diseased tissue possi- ble scraped and curetted away. When both testicles are affected I still believe that it is to the pa- tient’s interest to have them both excised, but as consent will be still more reluctantly given, under these circumstances, the surgeon will be more often forced to resort to only partial procedures. When castra- tion is done the cord should be severed high up, as it also is liable to be diseased. Tumors of the Testicle.—The subject of new growths of the testi- cle is still more or less obscure. The subject as yet has not been satis- factorily elucidated. That this uncertainty exists is due largely to the fact of the varied and complex nature of the various growths. It is comparatively rare for a tumor of the testis to be simple in character; most often it is complex. Indeed, in many cases it is almost impossible 1 Diseases of the Testis, p. 448.