168 ABSCESSES AND ULCEUS. next placed over the whole surface of the ulcer, and the dressings are held in place by a firmly applied bandage. This dressing is not dis- turbed for a week, and when it is removed the grafts are generally found fully vitalized. The surface of the ulcer is then irrigated with a warm boric or saline solution, and pieces of protective are re-applied over the grafts with layers of gauze and cotton as before. This second dressing is not disturbed for three or four days, by which time the grafts are so firmly attached that the dressing thenceforth differs in nowise from that of a simple or healthy ulcer. Thiersch's Method of Skin-Grafting.-—To secure a favorable result by this method of skin-grafting, the surface of the ulcer, if it presents an unhealthy appearance, should be freshened with a curette, and then should be irrigated with normal salt solution, hemorrhage being con- trolled while the grafts are preparing by a compress wrung out of warm salt solution and applied directly to the part. The skin from which the grafts are to be taken should be thoroughly washed with soap and water, and then scrubbed with a solution of corrosive sublimate. The most convenient situation from which to obtain them is the arm or thigh. Long strips of skin are cut with a sharp razor, as wide as the part will allow; the subcutaneous fat should not be included, but the whole thickness of the true skin is necessary. Strip after strip, obtained in this way, is placed upon the raw surface and pressed firmly in position until the whole is covered. Narrow strips of protective, laid as a lattice-work over the grafts, should next be applied, and over these a compress wet with the salt solution, several layers of sterilized cotton, and a bandage. The external dressing, consisting of the cotton and compress, should be renewed after several days, but the protective need not be removed until the expiration of five or six days, when the grafts will usually be found to have formed adhesions. After their vital- ity is assured, the dressing of the ulcer should be simply a protective one. Transplantation of Large Skin-Flaps.—Krause recommends, in the grafting of ulcers, the transplantation of one or more large skin- flaps. The surface to which the flap is to be transplanted should be excised or thoroughly curetted, and the edges, if unhealthy in appear- ance, should also be removed. The wound is irrigated with normal salt solution, and the hemorrhage is controlled by the application of a compress of sterilized gauze, no ligatures being used. The skin to be transplanted must be disinfected by washing it with soap and water, removing any hairs which are present by means of a razor, and should be thoroughly scrubbed with ether. The flap is then dissected up, and is made as thin as possible, not including the fat, but simply the entire epidermis and cutis. It should be cut a little larger than the surface which it is to cover, if only one flap is used. The flap or flaps are next pressed firmly upon the raw surface, the blood acting as the best adhesive medium. When the entire surface of the ulcer is covered in an exact manner, the flaps are held in position with a five-per-cent, iodoform gauze pad, and over this is placed a large antiseptic dressing. The first dressing is removed in from four to five days, and if any blebs have formed between the cutis and epidermis, they should be opened. A similar dressing is again applied, and allowed to remain for a few days longer. It is often a matter of several weeks before the healing of the ulcer is accomplished under this method of treatment.