583 TECHNIQUE OF CEREBRAL OPERATIONS. had been chiselled being then covered by Thiersch’s method of skin- grafting. In a case reported by Czerny 1 the subsequent changes in such a bony flap are shown. After closing the bony defect by this method, he was subsequently obliged to do a second operation. On re- flecting the flap of bone with which he had filled the opening, he was gratified to find that there had developed on its inner surface a smooth, bony plate, practically a reproduction of the vitreous table. Titze 2 put this method to its severest test. In a case in which he was obliged to remove the dura mater, #when his osteo-cutaneous flap was slid into place, the rough inner surface of the bone came in direct contact with the pia mater. The wound healed, however, by primary intention, and without the slightest difficulty from the rough surface of the bone. The explanation of this is probably to be found in Czerny’s observation just quoted. The most extensive operation of this kind that I have seen reported is by Schonborn.3 In this case there was a large transverse defect on the upper forehead. The scar was extirpated, opening the sub-arachnoid space. A flap of scalp and bone, 6 or 7 centimetres broad and 25 or 26 centimetres long, was formed just posterior to the defect, through the hairy portion of the scalp, by two transverse incisions, the two ends of the flap being its pedicles. This flap was then shifted for- ward, the outer table of bone having been chiselled away with it and transplanted with the flap to its new position. The raw surface left behind the defect was then filled by Thiersch’s method of skin-graft- ing. As by this operation a large part of the forehead was covered by hair, it caused the patient much annoyance. Four months afterward, the scar of the first operation, behind the original bony defect—that is, the skin-grafts—was dissected out, and the flap of scalp which had been displaced to the forehead was dissected loose from the un- derlying bone, which was not disturbed, and was then shifted back to its original position. The bony defect, being found well closed, was then covered in its turn by Thiersch’s method. Besides such filling of defects in the skull by replacing the original trephine button, or by Koenig's method, other plans have been devised for closing the opening. Thus Ricard 4 filled a defect of 5 by 4 centi- metres, in the frontal bone, by using the hip-bone of a dog and a bit of the femoral condyle. The bone was bared of all its soft parts, includ- ing the periosteum. Three months later no loss of substance was per- ceived. I attempted the same procedure in one case by taking a por- tion of the skull of a lamb, but the attempt was a failure, largely I think from the fact that I did not provide for drainage, and lienee the wound fluids accumulated between the soft parts and the transplanted bit of bone, which underwent a harmless necrosis and ultimately was re- moved. In another instance I filled the defect by decalcified ox-bone, but without a favorable result, the decalcified bone becoming absorbed and not replaced by bony tissue. It is probable that in all similar cases the decalcified bone simply forms a scaffolding, on which in many cases fibrous, and occasionally bony, tissue is built. Fraenkel5 proposed to insert a plate of polished celluloid, and after trying it successfully in 1 Verhand. Deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Chir., 1892. 2 Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xlv., 1893, S. 227. 3 Beil. Centralbl. f. Chir., 1891, S. 88, and Verhand. Deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Chir., 1891, S. 225. 4 Gaz. des Hop., 23 Juillet, 1891, p. 785. 6 Centralbl. f. Chir., 1890, S. 821.