265 SARCOMA. there were 59 recurrences, while 32 patients remained well, but only 19 for three years or more, a proportion of cures of 20.8 per cent. The latest recurrence took place four years after operation. The endothelial sarcomata, known also as angeio-sarcomata (a term which is misleading and should be avoided), and by many other names, probably should include most of the so-called alveolar sarcomata. Schmidt claims that these originate from the endothelial cells of the perivascular spaces, and rather unnecessarily suggests the name “peri- thelioma.” He has studied 11 cases in the breast, partly patients under his own observation. In every instance the patient was over fifty years old, more than half of them were married, while in two cases there was evidence of traumatism, and in two a history of antecedent mastitis. Besides the advanced age of the patients, the tumors presented certain well-marked clinical features: all were seated near the periphery of the gland except one which was directly under the nipple, and two which involved the entire breast; all were single, from two to eighteen months in duration before operation, and varying in size from that of a hen’s egg to that of a child’s head; sometimes hard, sometimes soft; not adher- ent to the breast, but always adherent to the skin, though without the dimpling seen in carcinoma. The glands were frequently enlarged, but probably very seldom diseased. In spite of these benign character- istics, the tumors recur rapidly, and generally cause metastasis. Their cells often show hyaline degeneration. Sarcoma op the Genitals.—In the uterus, sarcoma is rather a rare form of malignant disease, although probably more common than has been supposed in the past. According to Gusserow the single tumors, usually fibro-sarcomatous, are less common than those of the diffuse variety, which attack the mucous membrane primarily. In either case the seat of the disease is usually in the body of the organ, although cases have been observed in the cervix, and the growths have then I generally been polypoid in form. Of the first variety Gusserow found 32 cases, and probably some of the “recurrent fibroids” of the older writers belong here. The second variety often shows an overgrowth of the epithelial cells, and may properly be called a carcino-sarcoma. I have already, in speaking of rhabdo-myoma, mentioned certain tumors of the uterus, of which Pernice has collected seven cases, of a sar- comatous nature, containing striped muscle fibres, and noted for their tendency to return after removal and for their polypoid form; they are usually found connected with the cervix. Gusserow says that there are no known cases of cure of sarcoma of the uterus, although metasta- sis is rare, and life has been prolonged for as much as six years by surgi- cal treatment. Other writers, however, are not so hopeless, and the fact that the tumors develop in the body of the uterus, although making their early recognition difficult, should give the surgeon time to make his diagnosis and remove the organ before dissemination has | occurred. Sarcoma of the ovary is not uncommon, but its life-history is rather obscure because, owing to the malignant appearances so often assumed by papillomata and proliferating cysts of that organ, those tumors have often been confounded with sarcomata. In six hundred cases of ovarian tumor operated on in Schroeder’s clinic, Cohn found ten sarcomata, not