INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 574 angle of 67.5°, since each of the folded segments equals 22.5°; now placing F I) along the antero-posterior line in the middle of the head, one-lialf inch behind the mid-point, the line F G' need only he traced on the scalp to indicate with sufficient accuracy the fissure of Rolando. (Fig. 1674.) Fissure of Sylvius.—As the lower limit of the fissure of Rolando lies about one-half inch above the Sylvian fissure, it is often important for this, as well as for other purposes, to locate the latter. B}r causing the patient to alternately contract and relax the temporal muscle while tracing the temporal ridge with the finger, the point where the secon- dary ridge for the attachment of the temporal fascia crosses the coro- nal suture, that is the superior stephanion, can be determined, whence a line must be drawn which shall be perpendicular to the middle of the zygoma; a line drawn from the mid-point of this perpendicular line, passing upward and backward (nearly straight for its anterior half, more curved posteriorly) to within about half an inch of the centre of the parietal protuberance, will correspond to the course of the fissure of Sylvius. There are other methods of determining this,1 but the one mentioned is that which I have myself always employed. The lower limit may be determined by drawing one line from the stephanion to the asterion, and a second passing through the bregma and the exter- nal auditory meatus, their point of intersection being about 1 cm. above the Sylvian fissure and over the lower extremity of the Rolandic fissure. Trephining in Epilepsy. Since this subject will be treated of in another article, the only addition to what I have already said in Vol. V. concerning epi- lepsy resulting from old compound fractures, scars of the brain or membranes, exostoses, etc., is that all scar-tissue in the brain and membranes should be freely excised as well as the depressed or thickened bone. The possible presence of displaced vessels or of much enlarged veins in these brain scars must be borne in mind. 1 ReicPs method is draw “a Hue from a point 14 inch behind the external angular process of the frontal bone to a point f inch below the parietal eminence; the ascending branch of the fissure starts from a point f inch hack from the anterior end of this line and 5 cm. back of the external angular process. ” (Dana, Med. Record, Jan. 12, 1889.)