441 PRELIMINARY REMARKS. in the articular portions of all long bones, and is one of their most in- teresting architeclitonic features. By this distribution of the solid part of the bone a large surface is gained for the purpose of articulation, without any sacrifice of strength. The amount of substance present in a portion of the femur an inch long is practically the same, whether taken from the solid part of the shaft at the middle or from the open meshed part near the upper or lower end. This open-meshed structure, which looks so fragile in a dry bone, not only contains as much bone tissue in a given length as is found in the denser parts of the bone, but in addition its arrangement is such that interlacing lines constitute a species of arcs and chords, by which it is strengthened in accordance with mechanical principles, similar to those taken advantage of by engineers in constructing bridges and extensive roofs, so as to secure strength without sacrificing lightness. But this architectural arrangement makes the expanded portions of bone especially liable to diseases which may result from irritation or infection, because these parts are more richly supplied with blood-ves- sels, lymph spaces, and nerves, and the vital processes in them are more active than in the denser portions. For the same reason bones in gen- eral are more liable to disease in the early stages of their development. At this time the interchange of matter everywhere in the body is going on very rapidly, and infection more quickly finds its way from part to part, and irritation is more strongly propagated. This is why so large a proportion of diseases of the bones is found in the young, and why dis- ease is found so often in the neighborhood of joints at all ages. A correct understanding of diseases of the bones involves a full ap- preciation of the fact that they are not essentially different from those of any other tissues. The bones, it is true, present mechanical con- ditions which modify the results of such a process as that of simple inflammation, but the process involves precisely the same physiological or pathological principles, no matter where it occurs. The changes which take place in bone under the influence of disease are precisely analogous to those which are found in a soft part similarly affected. There are simple impairments of vitality, which may result in interrup- tion of growth or weakening of structure, or actual disintegration under the influence of forces to which a proper vitality would oppose a successful resistance. Or there may be an increase of the activity of vital processes, resulting in the formation of an excess of tissue of a character showing the signs of hasty workmanship in instability and weakness, or possessing a sort of vicious disposition to rapid growth and to the deposit of material which remains permanently or for a long time in the shape of homologous excrescences. In these processes, that which is active is, of course, the living tissue, namely, each cell for it- self, while the salts of lime which makeup so much of the substance of a mature bone are passive and take no active part in the vital processes. Although the substance of the cells is made up of chemical molecules just as truly as are the lime salts, the cells are living individuals with characteristics which bring them out of the exclusive category of mate- rialism—the nature of which characteristics is utterly unknown, but which we designate as vital. The activity of these living parts of bone has its effect upon what we call the lifeless portions, in increasing or diminishing their quantity,