501 DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. stood; but the remarks of Mr. Howard Marsh 1 furnish a fair statement of the position of the matter as it appears to most surgeons: “It is im- possible, however, to shut one’s eyes to the fact that this is an estimate of tuberculosis which the great majority of surgeons would not for a minute entertain. The estimate formed by Brodie, indorsed by Paget and Hilton, and accepted by a very large majority of those who have studied the subject from a clinical point of view, is that, though often intractable and destructive in its later stages, tuberculosis on a general survey wears the aspect of simply an obstinate, inflammatory process, the whole course and progress of which are widely divergent from those of malignant disease.” Yet in a very extensive experience Mr. Wright has reached no more temperate conclusion than “that treatment short of excision, when once suppuration occurs, is useful only as a palliative, or means of tem- porizing.” It may be said again, therefore, with regard to the comparative merits of mechanical treatment and excision of the hip-joint, that modern American opinion inclines toward a thorough trial of mechanical treat- ment, and that excision is to be regarded as a last resort, done as a life- saving measure, when mechanical treatment has failed, or as an inferior substitute for mechanical treatment in the case of the children of poor and destitute parents, who are out of the reach of hospitals, and for whom mechanical treatment cannot by any possibility be obtained. Treatment by Recumbency.—The mechanical management of hip dis- ease is conducted either by extension during recumbency or by ambula- tory treatment. Extension during recumbency is to be preferred to am- bulatory treatment when the disease is so acute that the hip is sensitive to jar, when night cries are present to any extent, and when attempts at going about with suitable apparatus cause pain and irritability of the joint. It is also to be adopted when deformity of the leg due to muscular spasm is present; when the child should rest in bed and trac- tion should be made in the line of the deformity. In short, irritability of the joint and deformity are the two indications for bed extension. Extension in bed is most simply applied if the child is placed flat upon the back and prevented from moving and turning in bed. This is Fig. 1643. almost an essential to the success of the treatment. The most simple appliance for securing this rest during recumbency is an oblong gas- pipe frame invented by Dr. E. H. Bradford, of Boston. This frame is covered with a stout cotton cloth, and is laced or buckled on the under side to keep it tight and unwrinkled. The cover to the frame is made in two pieces, leaving an open space under the pelvis so that the child need not be taken from the frame at any time, but that a bed-pan may be placed under the opening. (Fig. 1613.) 1 British Medical Journal, July 30, 1889, p. 121.