643 SURGERY OF THE VENTRICLES. Fie. 1698. lifting made in the third or fourth intervertebral space. This measures IS to 20 millimetres transversely and 10 to 15 millimetres longitudinally, the cauda equina being in two lateral bundles with an interspace of 5 milli- metres. The depth of the puncture to reach the cord in infants is about 2 centimetres, and in adults from 4 to 6 centimetres. Parkin' has proposed and practised still another method. (Fig. 1698.) He trephined three-quarters of an inch below the superior curved line of the occipital bone, just to the right of the middle line, and enlarged the open- ing downward by a rongeur forceps. After opening the dura, he inserted a probe into the fourth ventricle, the cerebellum to extent, when two a slight to three ounces of fluid ‘■gushed out.” Temporary improvement was followed by death in 16 hours after the operation. Morton,2 commenting on this proced- ure, calls attention to the fact pointed out by him3 that the opening between the fourth ventricle and the subarachnoid space of the cord is always patent in tubercular meningitis, but he doubts whether Parkin's operation will do any good, and objects to it as involving a dangerous locality. Parkin 1 has reported four cases with two recoveries, and Ord and Waterhouse 5 have recorded another recovery. Vertical Section of Base of Skull immediately to Right of Median Line, a, Basal subarachnoid cavity and its relation to cerebellum; 6, fourth ventricle; c, site of trephine opening. (Parkin.) Abscess Bursting into the Lateral Ventricle.—It is of course very rare that it would be possible to save life in so fatal an affection as abscess of the brain bursting into the lateral ventricle. I know of no recorded case in which this has been accomplished. Sheen,6 how- ever, reports the case of a patient who received a blow on the head, fol- lowed by an abscess which was evacuated and drained for three weeks. The autopsy revealed the fact that the tube was in the lateral ventricle. Certainly in so fatal a disease the resort to a desperate remedy seems justifiable, unless experience shall show that it will be of no value. In case of rupture of an abscess into the ventricle, I should propose instant bilateral trephining and washing out of the ventricles with a boric-acid solution. It must not be forgotten, however, that the foramen of Monro is sometimes closed, when only one ventricle could thus be washed out. Usually, however, in that case only one side would be involved in the disease. Such closure has been reported by me in my third case, and also by Pott.7 1 Lancet, 1893, vol. ii.. p. 21. 2 Ibid., p. 194. 3 Brit. Med. Journal, 1893, vol. i., p. 741. 4 Lancet, 1893, vol. ii., pp. 23, 1244. 5 Ibid., p. 873. 6 Brit. Med. Journal, 1890, vol. i., p. 236. 1 Med. News, Sept. 20, 1890, p. 290.