307 ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT. destructive of the gonococci, several competent observers having noted the fact that antiseptic solutions, when applied to gonorrhoeal secre- tions outside of the body, have seemed to exert but little effect upon the gonococcus, even when strong enough to destroy pus-cells almost immediately. Antiseptic Treatment. When the ardor urinse of the earliest stage of gonorrhoea has some- what subsided, the time has arrived when the use of antisepsis is es- pecially indicated. Clinically, we may assume that at this stage, in the majority of cases of urethritis, gonococci, the microbes of suppuration, and other bacteria will be found intermingled, and that successful treatment by germici- dal agents will involve the destruction of all the different varieties present. Dismissing theoretical considerations, we may inquire what drugs, if any, belonging to the class of antiseptics have a curative effect upon the essential symptom of urethritis—the blennorrhoea; restricting our inquiry to those cases in which the disease is comparatively acute, and in which it is limited to the pendulous uret'lira; in other words, to the ordinary cases of uncomplicated gonorrhoea which present them- selves in one’s office for treatment during the first few days after its appearance. The treatment of “ posterior” urethritis need not be dis- cussed in this relation. Considering topical remedies first, and excluding a large number which have little or no claim to occupy time or attention, we may di- vide the remainder into three classes: 1. Those which when strong enough to exert a sufficient germicidal action, are locally so irritating as to be harmful or unbearable. This class includes nitrate of silver, carbolic acid, chloride of zinc, iodine, chloral, potassium permanganate, salicylic acid, and creasote, all of which have been faithfully tried in many cases and by competent sur- geons, the concurrent testimony being, that when used in sufficient strength to sterilize the discharges they produce an amount of local irritation and swelling, ardor urinae, chordee, and even exceptionally urethral ulceration, that far outweighs any advantage to be derived from their antiseptic properties. 2. Those which are such feeble antiseptic agents that they cannot be depended upon to destroy all the bacteria found in urethral discharges. Among these may be mentioned resorcin, tliallin, quinine, the sulphate and acetate of zinc, lanolin, sulphur waters, tannin, alum, hydronaph- thol, and cadmium sulphate. Both clinical and experimental evi- dence coincide as to most of these drugs. Each has had its more or less enthusiastic advocates, but when given a wider trial has been found disappointing, while bacteriologists have shown that its germicidal action is either limited to a very few varieties of bacteria, or is slow and uncertain. 3. The third class includes a number of agents which, while open to the same objection of too feeble or too limited antiseptic action, have the additional drawback of insolubility in ordinary media, and of occa- sionally becoming mechanically irritating from the formation of con-