1040 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. specialties, particularly in those involving surgical manipulations. Thus there are required special constructional conditions to insure the success now expected from surgical interference: and many things that can be done for the preservation of life and for restoration to health, can only be done in hospitals. Special operating rooms are now the demand of every great hospital; and every community desires the facilities for hospital care near at hand. The successful establishment of these many small hospitals has now become possible through the ser- vices of intelligent women trained to the nursing of the sick and to ex- ecutive work. The newly awakened interest in preventive medicine, as applied to protection against infectious diseases, is in like manner due to the better knowledge of the causes of disease, that bacteriology has taught. Very distinct forms of hospital construction have grown out of the pre- cision with which the special requirements of this work have been demonstrated. This affords another example of the progress toward a general system of national sanitation, of which the village hospitals will be the important result. There will then be a more complete legislative con- trol of the interests in which the guardianship of life is concerned. “In the end,” writes Havelock Ellis, “every medical man in the country would be attached to a hospital, and every person would be living within the district of a great institution of health.” Hospital Improvements to Promote Aseptic Surgery. The purpose of this article is to note recent progress in hospital con- struction, especially in the three ways just mentioned. The first of these relates to the invention of special devices for promoting aseptic surgery; and there are now in existence some unique examples of such surgical buildings and operating-rooms. The first notable structure of this kind was erected at the Massachusetts General Hospital in 1888, as a memorial building, the Bradlee Memorial Ward for abdominal and cerebral surgery. It is a one-story pavilion, and its plan and exterior are shown in Figs. 1795 and 1796. The building is connected with the other parts of the hospital by a basement covered way for food-service, but the approach to the ward on the first floor level is by an uncovered terrace. The ward itself has the general arrangement of rooms designed for isolation, the corridor between them being 8 feet wide and 24 feet high, with a monitor roof with many windows that may be freely opened. This gives the corridor, in relation to the rooms, the effect of their opening upon the outer air. The lavatory, scullery, etc., are outside of the building, with an inter- vening lobby protected at the side only by a screen. The passage is guarded by double doors swinging both ways. The heating is by steam and indirect radiation, the inlets being under the windows. These have transom lights over them. The ventilation is by an independent duct in the chimney for each room. The walls and ceilings are painted, the floors are of hard pine, and the finishing in wood and plaster has all corners rounded. The special feature of the building is the operating theatre. At the