754 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. actinomycosis, the diagnosis sometimes cannot be made from abscesses due to other causes except by an incision. When the actinomycotic tumor is single, without nodules, and fluctuating, absolute differentia- tion from abscess may be impossible. Since, however, incision, curet- ting and drainage are indicated in the one as in the other, and in both will be followed by a permanent cure, the question of diagnosis may be considered of minor importance. Tuberculosis of the Neck. Chronic inflammations of the lymph nodes of the neck, in Sir George Macleod’s article 1 denominated “ scrofulous,” are now known to be tuber- culous in character. Marked by indolence, multiplicity, and a tendency to develop during childhood and adolescence, they are the result of an infection from the mouth, pharynx, or tonsil, and continue long after the primary lesion has disappeared. Ordinarily the gland nearest the seat of invasion is first infected, and within its capsule the diseased process is limited. Sooner or later the glands in the vicinity are involved, until in well-marked cases a single or double chain of lymphatic tumors extends from the angle of the jaw to the clavicle. While only a few of the glands are involved, the danger from general tuberculosis is not marked, the glandular capsule efficiently protecting the system. Wei- gert2 demonstrates that the virus in some cases is successively deposited in contiguous lymphatic glands until it reaches the venous circulation through a l}7mph-duct, but that in the greater number generalization takes place more directly through a vein. The bacillus tuberculosis is not motile, and therefore infection is carried in the course of the lymph current, or by amoeboid cells through the blood. It is a matter of ordinary clinical observation that only a small per- centage of strumous glands terminate in miliary tuberculosis. Nor is pulmonary tuberculosis a frequent congener or sequel of a like affection of the cervical glands. In 148 cases anatyzed by Frankel3 the lungs were affected in only 15. While the anaemia and malnutrition of tuberculosis were marked in IS patients, the general health was not impaired in 72. Tubercular adenitis is principally a localized infection process. In patients under five years it is often associated with or fol- lowed b}r tuberculosis of other parts, when the local condition in the neck forms but an unimportant factor of the generalized condition. According to Tibert, Schell, and Lucke, the largest number of tubercu- lous cases are encountered between the ages of ten and twenty. In its beginning, a tubercular gland appears to the naked eye in the guise of a simple hyperplasia. The tumor is firm, consistent, elastic, and on section presents a uniform, grayish, translucent surface. Ke- cent investigations of Friedlander, Koster, Koenig, and others, have shown that in the early stage of the disease miliary nodules are already present, and that within them, far removed from the blood-supply, are the giant-cells of Langhans. It remained for Koch to demonstrate that within the latter were contained the bacilli. In very young subjects 1 See Yol. V., supra. 2 Verbreitungswege der Tuberculose. Jalirbuch f Kinderheilk., Bd. xxi., S. 146. 3 Prag. Zeitsclirift f. Heilk., 1885, S. 283.