SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 334 Khinoscleroma. Bacilli have been found in the lesions of rhinoscleroma; these organ- isms are rod-shaped, their length exceeds their breadth by one and one- lialf times, they havq rounded ends and are enclosed in a capsule, and they occur in free groups, or in cells. In appearance they are very sim- ilar to the pneumococci of Friedlander; some authors regard these or- ganisms as the etiological factor of the disease, and think that their presence causes the lymphatics to become blocked. Others consider the infiltrated condition as being closely allied to the granulation tumors which occur in such diseases as leprosy, syphilis, etc. Treatment.—Salicylic acid has given encouraging results in Lang’s hands; this remedy was employed both internally, in the dose of 10 grains three times daily, during a long period, and externally in the form of hypodermic injections, of one-per-cent, strength, repeated daily. Douches of sodium salicylate were used in the naso-pharynx, and solu- tions of the drug in alcohol were applied to the diseased mucous mem- branes. Lupus Erythematosus. Synonyms: Seborrhcea congestiva; Lupus superficialis; Lupus erythematodes; Lupus sebaceus; Lupus non-exedens. French, Scrofu- lide erythemateuse; Erytheme centrifuge. Four varieties of this affection have been described: the circumscribed or discoid, the telangiectasic, the nodular, and the diffuse or dissemi- nated. Some authors regard lupus erythematosus as a species of cutaneous tuberculosis; it has a tendency to occur in scrofulous in- dividuals. Treatment.—Iodine, arsenic, and potassium iodide may be given in- ternally. McCall Anderson recommends the administration of iodide of starch in heaped teaspoonful doses, in water or gruel, given three times daily. Bulkley advocates to 3V grain doses of phosphorus thrice daily. Strict attention should be paid to hygienic conditions and to the general health. Locally the use of Paquelin’s cautery, applied lightly to the diseased areas, is regarded very favorably by some writ- ers. Scarification with the multiple scarifier, making longitudinal and transverse incisions, about ft ^n- aParP may be employed. Before operating, local anaesthesia may be produced with the rhigolene or ether spray; the application of absorbent cotton and pressure will readily check the hemorrhage. The operation may be repeated after the wounds have healed. This method is followed by very slight scarring and is highly recommended. Electrolysis has also proved useful. Lupus Vulgaris. Some investigators consider this a local manifestation of tuberculosis. In America the coexistence of phthisis and lupus has been but rarely observed. The disease is undoubtedly at times due to direct inocula- tion. Experimental inoculations with lupoid material, introduced into