TUMORS. 218 It is perhaps not an impossible hypothesis, but at least it demands great extension of our theories of the powers inherent in epithelial cells, to suppose that these cells have individually the property of influencing the connective tissue around them so that it will assume just the shape to which they are accustomed, and we shall certainly do well to ask for some further facts before we accept it even as a hypothesis. That the power of thus modifying the connective tissue as well as the epi- thelium should reside in the parasite, is quite beyond the bonds of credibility. If we can assume for the cell such wonderful coercive power, it does not appear to me that the recent discovery (Waring) that the cells of carcinomatous growths, both primary and secondary, retain the function of the gland: from which they originate, adds any- thing to the difficulty of the supposition; for if cells from a carcinoma of the stomach can produce in the liver the structure of a stomach- gland, it surely is not very surprising that they should produce there the same secretion. One final objection requires notice. If we accept the parasitic theory as proven, how can we explain the fact, which must follow as a corol- lary, that a parasite, residing for instance in a carcinomatous cell of the stomach, when carried into the liver should not cause the surrounding liver cells to take on carcinomatous growth and produce a typical hepat- ic carcinoma? In the present state of our knowledge it is impossible to answer any of these objections, and we must rest satisfied for the time with the facts already demonstrated, thankful at least for the re- newed interest which has been awakened in this difficult problem. Whether this new doctrine is accepted or not, the discussion has brought out some old views in new lights which are worth noting. Thus Sims Wood head, following Thiersch’s example in the study of epithelioma of the lip, has examined and recorded the senile changes in the tongue. He finds that with the advance of age the connective tissue becomes atrophied, hut the epithelial layer retains the thickness characteristic of the adult (in the infant there is only a very delicate epithelial layer) and finger-like processes are seen passing down into the connective-tissue spaces, sometimes with small cell-nests of thick- ened epithelium, so that the normal structure closely resembles epithe- lioma. If no irritation occurs, the epithelium finally joins in the general atrophy, but at the stage just described it is easy to see that a slight degree of irritation might readily cause abnormal growth and true epi- thelioma. Geographical Distribution.—The geographical distribution of ma- lignant tumors has been studied by various investigators, but more especially by Haviland, in Great Britain, and by some recent French writers. Haviland, limiting himself to cancer occurring in women, found that the disease was most prevalent in low-lying, damp regions, and the French authors support him in this conclusion, which is very interesting in view of the fact that coccidiosis is most common in rab- bits running on wet lands, since it has been sought to connect the dis- eases etiologically. Haviland’s conclusions, however, and the mortuary statistics upon which they are founded, are questioned by Hirsch; and Owen, in the collective investigation of this question made by the Brit- ish Medical Association, could find no evidence of their truth, so that