224 TUMORS. skin of the glans penis, similar to leukoplakia and associated with epi- thelioma. Shield and Butlin have seen leukoplakia of the tongue de- velop after epithelioma had already appeared. Malignant disease (usually epithelioma, but sarcoma has also been observed) may develop in scars, especially in those due to burns and suppuration, where the amount of cicatricial tissue is great, and in cicatrices upon which there is considerable traction or pressure. Usu- ally the malignant disease follows upon chronic and obstinate ulcera- tion, but it also develops in unbroken cicatrices in the form of hard nodules. Contrary to the ordinary history of epithelioma, that devel- oping in scars may appear early in life. Such cicatricial epitheliomata have not infrequently been observed in the ulcers of conical amputa- tion stumps. Sex.—The occurrence of the various forms of neoplasm varies greatly in the different sexes. The most complete statistics upon this point are those of Williams and Gurlt, already quoted, who found that women were twice as liable to neoplasms as men (Gurlt, 30 per cent, males, to 70 per cent, females), chiefly because of the liability of the female re- productive organs to these diseases, 69 per cent. (50 per cent. Gurlt) of neoplasms in women affecting these organs. In 7878 cases of epithe- lioma and carcinoma, the proportion of males to females was 1 to 1.7, according to Williams; in 10,-125 cases, 1 to 2.5 according to Gurlt; and here the same reason explains the difference, for over 75 per cent, of epithelial growths in women attack the reproductive organs. Gurlt shows that of all patients treated in the hospital, 60 per cent, were males, so that tumors were relatively even more frequent in women than is indicated by these figures. Rodent ulcer, however, showed a proportion of males 1.6 to females 1. There were 108 cases of cancer of the lip in males, but only a single case in a woman, and other can- cers affecting the mouth were seven times as frequent in men as in women. In sarcoma the sexes were more nearly balanced, there being 702 cases in males against 648 in females (Gurlt 398 to 483), only 23 per cent. (33 per cent. Gurlt) of these tumors in women affecting the re- productive organs. In the benign tumors and cysts the proportions were again male to female as one to 2.9 and 2.6 respectively (1.9 and 3.8, Gurlt), the great disproportion here being due to the large number of fibrous tumors of the breast and uterus, and of cysts of the ovary. Age.—Recent studies have only confirmed the statements of the past in regard to age, but it may be well to emphasize the fact that although in general terms it may be said that each variety of tnmor has its ac- cepted ordinary age for appearance, there are many exceptions to the rule as laid down in the text-books. It is true that most lipomata and fibromata appear in early adult life, that most angeiomata appear in infancy or are congenital, that exostoses and enchondromata belong to adolescence, and finally that sarcoma usually occurs in very early in- fancy, or young adult life, while the epithelial malignant growths be- long to middle life or later. But these statements must only be taken in a general way. For instance, fibroma of the uterus has been ob- served as early as 10 years (Tillaux), while sarcoma of the humerus