1002 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. the operation of coeliotomy is given to the nurses in the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania:— Directions for the Preparation and Care of a Woman in the Opera- tion OF CCELIOTOMY. Give a warm soap bath from head to feet once a day, preferably in the evening, from date of admission to the hospital. Give a vaginal injection, night and morning, of one gallon of hot water (110° F.), followed by two quarts of a solution of bichloride of mercury (1-2000), from the date of admission. Introduce the nozzle of the syringe and one finger well into the vagina, inject forcibly, and depress the perineum. The bowels must be moved at least once a day from the date of admission. If necessary, give five grains of calomel at bed-time and follow by one drachm of Rochelle salt in a half tumbler of water one hour before breakfast. The woman may have any diet until twenty-four hours before the operation. Twenty-four hours before the operation, begin to empty the intestinal tract and regulate the diet. Give one drachm of Rochelle salt, dissolved in one half tumbler of water or soda water, every hour until the bowels begin to move freely. Five or six doses are usually enough. Give light, easily digested, concentrated nourishment: milk, buttermilk, soft-boiled eggs, rare beef, soups, beef-tea, coffee, tea, and whiskey if necessary. Give no food on the morning of operation unless the patient is very weak. In this case she may have a glass of milk, buttermilk, coffee, or milk punch. Give as little water as possible on the morning of the operation. Three or four hours before operation give an enema of soapsuds and water. When the bowels have been emptied, wash out the vagina with soap and water, using cotton and forceps. Cleanse carefully the vaginal fornices. Give a vaginal douche of one gallon of hot water and two quarts of bichloride solution (1-2000). Then give a warm soap bath from head to feet. Scrub the abdomen from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes with a nail-brush. Cleanse thoroughly the folds of the umbilicus. Shave the pubes. After this bath, put on the patient a clean undershirt and night-gown, and place her in a clean bed. Then wash the abdomen from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes and from flank to flank, and the upper third of the anterior aspect of the thighs, first with turpen- tine, second with green soap, and finally with ether. Cover the abdomen with a large, wet bichloride dressing (1-2000). A large folded towel wrung out of a (1-2000) bichloride solution will answer this purpose. This is not removed until the patient is on the operating table. One hour before the operation give a vaginal douche of two quarts of bichloride solution (1-2000), and introduce as far as the cervix alight vaginal tampon of gauze wet with (1-2000) bichloride solution. Immediately before the administration of ether the bladder must be emptied, naturally or by the catheter. As few nurses as possible should assist at the operation. Two are enough. Any nurse who is to have charge of the patient, or who assists in any way at the operation, must be thoroughly clean. She must take a hot soap bath on the morning of the operation and must be dressed in clean clothes throughout. She must not attend any other patient after she has dressed herself to assist at the op- eration. She must not be present at an autopsy, nor handle any anatomical speci- men, nor dress a septic wound, nor attend any case of contagious disease during the forty-eight hours preceding the operation. She must wash and disinfect her hands and arms, just as the surgeon; scrub with soap and water and a nail-brush; wash throughly in alcohol, and soak the hands in bichloride solution (1-1000).