385 TETANUS. tetany, whereas partial removal does not. In certain other animals, as sheep and rabbits, these results do not occur. Why complete thy- roidectomy should cause tetany, and also myxcedema and cachexia strumipriva, which frequently accompany the former affection, is not known; nor will it be until the, at present, mysterious function of the thyroid gland becomes known. Synijitoms.—General malaise and painful sensations coming on soon after the operation, or after an interval of several days, generally precede the muscular spasms, though not always. The spasms nearly always begin in the muscles of the forearm, and then attack the lower ex- tremities. Sometimes the facial muscles are first attacked. Both sides of the body are as a rule affected, and the flexor muscles are chiefly in- volved, leading to contractures. “Trousseau’s phenomenon,” which is highly characteristic of this disease, consists of spasms of the limb muscles brought on by pressure upon the main arterial and nerve trunks of the extremity. “Chvostek's sign” consists of contractures of the facial muscles, caused by pressing or tapping upon the seventh cranial nerve at its point of emergence from the parotid gland. This symptom is regarded by von -Jaksch as even more characteristic of tetany than “Trousseau’s phenomenon.” The duration of the individual spasms is from a few seconds to several minutes; of the entire disease from two or three days to several weeks; some cases may become chronic. Consciousness is preserved. Dyspnoea often exists owing to spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm and thoracic muscles. In the intervals between the attacks the electrical and mechanical excitability of the nerves is exaggerated. The bodily temperature is often elevated, and the frequency of the pulse is moderately increased. Pain, tremors, oedematous swelling, and excessive secretion of sweat have been met with. Another form of the disease is the epidemic tetany, occurring most often in the spring; then there is a variety of the disease due to lower- ing of the general standard of health from long-continued diarrhoea, over-lactation (contracture des nourrices, Trousseau), rickets, certain fevers, etc. There is also a form which is met with in some cases of gastrectasis, as first mentioned by Gerhardt. The symptoms of these varieties of tetany are in general the same as those detailed above for the post-operative form. Von Jaksch, who has studied a large num- ber of cases of epidemic tetany, noted 36 males and 5 females. The affection was most common among the followers of certain trades, notably among shoemakers. It was met with most often at about the age of 17 or 18. No hereditary taint could be traced in his cases. Post- mortem examinations have, thus far, given no definite results. Diagnosis.— The diagnosis from tetanus is to be made by considering the etiology of the disease, by the fact that in tetanus the spasms begin in the masticatory muscles and are more general, and that there are no periods of relaxation. Trousseau's and Chvostek’s signs will also be of avail in differentiating tetany from tetanus. The carpo-pedal spasms, which are often seen in rickety children, along with laryngismus stridulus, are not to be mistaken for true tetan}7. The prognosis is favorable, except in cases of post-ojierative tetany, and in that form which is associated with gastrectasis. Treatment.—The general hygienic management is, of course, to be vol. vn.—25