INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 762 cases tapping, with subsequent injection of tincture of iodine, has been followed by cure. Complete excision is the only radical measure erf relief. When a fistulous track is all that remains of the bursa, thorough curetting should he resorted to. In one of three cases which I have seen, this treatment was followed by permanent closure. In the event of its failure, complete excision of the fistulous track must he attempted. It should be borne in mind that the subhyoidean bursa is frequently bilocular, and that the fistulous track at its upper end may be bifid, the branches turning away from the mid-line beneath the hyoid bone. Branchial Cysts.—Closely allied to the congenital cervical fistulse described in Sir George Macleod’s article are the cysts which since Roser’s observations are generally denominated branchial. Schede found a cer- vical fistula in one and a branchial cyst in the other of twins. The lateral walls of the pharynx, in the first month of foetal life, are formed on each side by four arches, decreasing in size from above downward and having between them furrows which, according to recent investi- gations of His and Kolliker, are generally kept from being fissures by a very delicate obturator membrane destined to separate the epiblastic and hypoblastic epithelia. With the exception of the first, from which the auditory meatus, tympanum, and Eustachian tube are formed, the branchial furrows are obliterated by the end of the eighth week. On the one hand imperfect obliteration may give rise to a branchial fistula. Retention, on the other hand, of epiblastic or hypoblastic epithelium beneath the integument, forms the matrix for the formation, early in life or under the developmental activity of the period of puberty, of cysts which bear certain fixed anatomical relations. Although in very rare instances they may occupy the median line, they generally occupy a lateral position, being deep-seated, between the angle of the jaw and the lower border of the larynx. In rarer instances they occupy a lower position in the neck. Since the styloid processes, stylo-hyoid ligament, and greater and lesser horns of the hyoid bone are formed from the branchial plates, these cysts often have more or less firm attachments to the parts named. Primary or secondary adhesions are likewise formed to the sheath of the large vessels of the neck. Particularly when punctures or irritant injections have been resorted to, these adhesions may be firm. They affect chiefly the jugular vein, which more than the artery is exposed to injury in extirpation of the sac. Langenbeck has seen a branchial cyst project into the pharynx. When developed above the hyoid bone, the tumor often projects into the floor of the mouth. Many cases of ranula occurring in the young are doubtless branchial in origin. Externally, branchial cysts are covered by the deep fascia and the sterno-mastoid muscle. Anatomi- cally they are unilocular, but may present a bilobed appearance when indented by a muscular or fascial band. The sac itself consists of thin connective tissue, and may be quite vascular. Forming the inner- most layer of the sac-wall is a layer of pavement or columnar epithe- lium, or both. The thickness of the wall of the sac and of its epithelial strata is directly proportionate to the density of its contents. These may be mucoid, serous, or sanguineous, of the caseous character of an atheroma, or identical with those of a true dermoid. In the latter case