(1001) OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. BY CHARLES B. PENROSE, M.D., PROFESSOR OF GYNAECOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; SURGEON TO THE GYNAECEAN HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. The increase, during the last seven years, in our knowledge in regard to Ovarian and Uterine Tumors consists mainly in an improvement in the methods of dealing with those affections. Nothing of value has been added to our knowledge of the origin, causes, or pathology of tumors of the ovary and uterus. The treatment of ovarian tumors consists in their removal by coeliotomy as soon as they are recognized. Delay and watching the progress of the case are unwarranted, on account of the danger from the many accidents to which all abdominal tumors are liable. Among these dangers are septic infection, rupture, torsion of the pedicle, and adhesion to contiguous structures. The technique of the operation for ovarian and uterine tumors has been in some respects changed and improved during the last seven years. Abdominal Ovariotomy. Abdominal ovariotomy is the operation to be performed in all cases. Preparatory treatment is always of great importance before coeliotomy. We should strive to have an aseptic abdominal surface, an aseptic vagina and cervical canal, and an empty gastro-intestinal tract. The best method to diminish the danger of infection from the gastro- intestinal tract is to empty it by free watery purgation. This is of advantage in case the intestine should be injured during the opera- tion, an accident liable to occur in any case of intestinal adhesion; it renders all manipulations within the abdomen easier; and it very much diminishes the danger of infection through the bowel wall after the operation, an accident T;o be feared in case of post-operative arrest of peristalsis, from any cause. Asepsis of the vagina and cervix is im- portant, because in any case it may be necessary to drain through the posterior vaginal fornix, and the operator may at the time of operation find that it is desirable to remove the uterus. The advantage of this step in addition to the removal of some forms of ovarian, tubal, and uterine tumors is receiving increasing recognition. The following list of directions for the preparation of a woman for