DISEASES OF BRAIX FROM SUPPURATIVE DISEASE OF MIDDLE EAR. 601 lowing Horsley's mode of treatment, and has since reported 10 such cases operated on, with 8 recoveries1 while Ballance2 reported d cases with 2 recoveries. Other cases have been recorded by various sur- geons, and, as far as I have been able to collect them by a fairly thorough search, are included in the preceding table. My own case,3 Buck's, and Crockett’s are, I believe, the only cases thus far reported in American medical literature. I can only attribute this to the fact that the condition has been unfortunately overlooked. This makes a total of 86 cases with 58 recoveries and 28 deaths, a mortality of less than one-third. This is a most encouraging result when we remember that the operation is so recent, and that without operation every patient would have died. Treatment.—This cannot be too prompt or too thorough Imperfect operations in which the lateral sinus is exposed but not opened, such as some of those of Hansberg,4 Chauvel,5 and others, should not be practised Fig. 1690. Lateral aspect of skull showing relation of lateral sinus to outer wall of cranial cavity and position of trephine opening (a), 1 inch behind bony meatus and 14 inch above Reid’s line. Reid's base liDe from lower border of orbit through middle of external meatus is made to a scale of 8ths of an inch, as are also the lines perpendicular to it. (Rol.) lower end of fissure of Rolando; XX sight of tentorium, in part. The anterior X shows the point where the tentorium leaves the side of the skull to be attached to the superior border of the petrous bone: (c) corresponds to mastoid antrum, y3 inch behind meatus and J4 inch above Reid's base line; (7>) trephine opening % inch above meatus, to explore anterior surface of petrous bone: (d) trephine opening for temporo-sphenoidal abscess,. 1J4 inches behind meatus and 1J4 inches above Reid's base line; (e) trephine opening for cerebellar abscess, 1J4 inches behind meatus and J4 'Del1 below Reid's base line. fBallanee.) in view of the later and better results from more thorough operations. The mastoid antrum and often the cells also, if not already operated on, should be opened and cleansed. Next the lateral sinus should be exposed, either by the chisel or the trephine, at a point one inch behind and a quarter of an inch above the middle of the external auditory meatus (Fig. 1690, a). The opening may be enlarged either by the rongeur or by the chisel and gouge. Pus will very likely be found in the groove for the sinus. If this he the seat of thrombosis it will feel hard to the touch. If no thrombus has formed it will be soft. In either case, if the symptoms warrant it, the sinus should be incised. If no thrombus is found the blood will of course escape profusely, but may be instantly arrested by the finger. Strips of iodoform gauze should 1 Brit. Med. Journal, 1893, vol. ii., p. 561. 2 Lancet, 1890, vol. i., pp. 1057-1114. s Med. Times and Register. Dec., 1890, p. 559. 4 Ann. desMal. de l’Oreilie, etc., 1892, p. 1. 5 Centralbl. f. Chir., 1893. S. 236.