61 WOUND-TREATMENT. Paris. (Fig. 1565.) Here also the steam is generated between two cyl- inders, and passes through the tube G and the opening C into the inner chamber A, which contains the dressings. The apparatus is put under a pressure of thirty pounds. There is a safety-valve at L. The stop-cock K answers the double purpose of allow- ing the steam under pressure to escape from the inner chamber after sterili- zation is complete, and, afterwards, when the air in A has been exhausted by the current of water passing through F, of allowing the introduc- tion of sterilized air. This is effected by heating the platinum point of K by the gas-jet H. This brief descrip- tion will suffice to indicate the work- ing of the apparatus. It has the ad- vantage of rapid sterilization. Under pressure of thirty pounds to the square inch, five minutes is said to be suffi- cient. It is possible that sterilization by this apparatus is more certain than by those without pressure. But the latter will rarely fail to destroy all organic life, and are much less com- plicated. Similar apparatuses, more simple in construction and equally efficient, have lately been made in this country. Iodoform gauze may best he pre- pared in the following way : Boil the gauze with washing-soda and, after drying, determine by weight the amount of iodoform to be distributed in a certain quantity of gauze. Saturate the gauze with ether, and wring it out, and in the ether thus obtained dissolve the iodoform. Then place the gauze in the iodoform-ether, and, after it is uniformly saturated, raise it and spread it so that evaporation of the ether may rapidly occur, when the iodoform will he evenly distributed throughout the gauze. Weir’s method is to mix three drachms of powdered iodoform with six fluid ounces of suds, made with castile soap and a 1-5000 sublimate solu- tion. Pour this emulsion over and into two and one-half yards of gauze, which will make a 10-per-cent, iodoform gauze. A simple and good way is to rub finely powdered iodoform into sterilized gauze immedi- ately before using it. We do not get a definite percentage of iodoform in the gauze by this means, but this does not seem to be important. For moist antiseptic dressings, which are occasionally indicated, a 1-5000 sublimate solution or, preferably, Thiersch’s solution (salicylic acid, 2 parts; boric acid, 12 parts; water, 1000 parts) should be em- ployed. Acetate of aluminum in a one-per-cent, or two-per-cent, solution also answers very well in this case. Drainage.—The best material for drainage-tubes still is vulcanized Fig. 1565. Sorel’s Sterilizer for Dressings.