INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. 090 nance of a round pupil, and therefore better vision. The disadvantages are, (1) the smaller exit for the lens, (2) the liability of cortical matter being retained in a place where it may cause inflammation, and (3) the danger of subsequent prolapsus of the iris into the corneal wound. Both methods are to he recommended, but the surgeon must suit the operation to the case. For the typical, senile, ripe cataract, the simple operation is better; but when there is much cortical matter, when the iris will not return to its normal position, or when there is fluid vitreous, iridectomy should be practised. Unquestionably a preliminary iri- dectomy, performed several weeks before the extraction, simplifies the operation wonderfully, but there is, of course, danger by opening the eye twice, though the simple performance of iridectomy is rarely fol- lowed by any serious results, while the easy and rapid recovery of the patient upon whom the preliminary operation has been performed has much to recommend it. The claim that better vision follows the avoidance of iridectomy cannot always he substantiated. For lacer- ating the capsule several methods are advised, and each has staunch advocates. Some make a cross in the centre of the membrane, others a T-shaped opening, others a peripheral cut along the upper margin, and quite a number believe in tearing out a piece by means of special forceps. Any of these plans will answer the purpose of liberating the lens, but it seems that the peripheral laceration advocated by Knapp is most rational, because the cortical matter if retained in the capsule will then be where it can do no harm. Expulsion of the lens in the capsule is the ideal operation, but the danger of losing vitreous will prevent its adoption. Before expelling the lens it is advisable to re- move the blepharostat. The lens may then be easily and safely expelled by pressing with the finger or spoon handle through the lower lid at the lower border of the cornea, and with the thumb or finger through the upper lid just above the cornea, the patient at the same time turning the eye downward. By this means vitreous is less apt to be lost. Any cortical matter is now carefully forced out by the same movements, or, which some operators prefer, the anterior chamber may be irrigated by special syringes. This practice has not been generally adopted, but is highly praised b}r those who advocate it. The eye and cul-de-sac are are now carefully washed with the solution of boric acid. Atropine is instilled by some surgeons, while others, who have equally good results, do not use it except in special cases. Eserine is sometimes used after the simple operation, but as it is likely to cause iritis it is better not to employ it, especially as the pupil naturally contracts after the extraction. In the matter of dressings there is considerable diversity of opinion. Custom and satisfaction with results induce many to retain the ban- dage and pad, though the bandages are much lighter than formerly. Others prefer closing the lids with a piece of soft and flexible plaster, such as gold-beater's skin, or isinglass or glycerol plaster, while a few ad- vocate no dressing at all. It is true that the best splints are the lids, and that heavy dressings tightly applied may cause the edges of the incision to gape, and thus protract recovery and increase for a time astigmatism, but a light pad of cotton applied over a square of aseptic gauze, and held in place by strips of silk isinglass plaster stuck to the forehead and cheek, or by a light gauze bandage, seems desirable as a