863 RETROPERITONEAL TUMORS. walls of the pelvis or from the subperitoneal connective tissue of that region. Diagnosis of Retroperitoneal Tumors.—There is no single symp- tom that is pathognomonic of these growths, and the diagnosis must be made mainly by exclusion. The patient’s sex, or the history of the case, may at once exclude the organs of generation, bimanual examina- tion rarely failing to locate the uterine appendages and to determine pathological changes occurring in them. Subperitoneal uterine fibroids are the only uterine growths likely to be confused with those under consideration, but solid tumors of the ovary and broad ligament present greater difficulties, which at times cannot be surmounted. The his- tory of the case, however, together with a painstaking weighing of general symptoms, will assist in clearing up the diagnosis in the event of doubt. Disturbances as regards biliary excretion may occur from pressure of the growth on the common duct. Tumors of the liver always move synchronously with respiration; retroperitoneal growths, as a rule, do not. Differentiation from hypertrophy and tumors of the spleen presents less difficulty than in the case of the liver. Tumors of the omentum lack the fixed position of retroperitoneal growths. An examination of the urine may give a clew to the diagnosis, and in many cases the withdrawal of fluid by the aspirator, and its careful examination, will throw light on the nature of the tumor. Dullness on percussion is often relative rather than absolute. Rectal insufflatio.n of hydrogen gas, with distention of the stomach, may be a valuable adjunct to diagnosis, more especially where a care- ful examination has previously been made and percussion areas have been outlined upon the abdomen; the process of inflation should be carefully watched so that the relation of the intestinal tube to the tumor may be determined. Prognosis.—Without operative interference there is but one termi- nation to these cases, though the rapidity of the fatal result varies somewhat with the character of the growth. From the clinical his- tories found in surgical literature, the mean duration of life, after dis- covery of the tumor, appears to be not more than nine months. Much promise is offered by operative treatment, recovery having followed the removal of retroperitoneal tumors weighing as much as fifty pounds. Incomplete operations have been immediately fatal oftener than when the tumor has been completely removed. Treatment.—Considerable modification in operative detail will from necessity be made in the removal of retroperitoneal growths. Langen- beck’s incision for removal of the kidne}7 may be made use of. By separating the peritoneum from the internal border of the tumor and attaching it by sutures to the internal border of the abdominal wound, the whole field of operation becomes extraperitoneal. Removal of the growth by enucleation must be accomplished with great care, and it is always desirable to determine the source of blood supply and the rela- tions of the tumor to the great vessels. Occasionally it is necessary to remove the kidney with the tumor, and the danger of hemorrhage is then very great. As in all abdominal work, the operator must be pre-