937 LITHOTOMY. is less expensive than any of the other bottles, and seems to commend itself for general adoption. My experience with it, however, is, I may say, limited, and I can only give its picture with my favorable impression of its work thus far. Speed in Operating.—Good, not rapid, work is what modern sur- gery requires, and although the term ' litholapaxy is often made inter- changeable with rapid lithotrity, still no operator, particularly no young operator, can afford to aim at rapidity, and must accept it as a fact that rapid lithotrity done slowly is much better than the same operation when pushed with undue haste. It is rapid enough in any case if the operator is competent, and the protection given to the soft parts by the gentleness of manipulation in the slow operation much more than compensates for the few minutes which might be gained by a more rapid execution of the operative manoeuvre. Lithotomy. This operation, formerly so dreaded and so much revered, is becoming a classical memory to some and a novelty to others; it must always remain as a brilliant surgical procedure to be applied in properly selected cases, hut its usefulness for the liberation of stone is far less than it formerly was. Children, formerly furnishing us a fertile field for brilliant and successful lithotomy, will in the near future be entirely cared for by litholapaxy, excepting in those cases of foreign body and excessively large calculus that must be ministered to by the high operation. The perineal route will soon be entirely abandoned as far as children are concerned, since children have no vesical bcts-fond and no vesical disease that will not get well spontaneously when the foreign body is removed. For the neck of the bladder in the child is its most dependent portion, and therefore drainage is perfect, while atony and trabeculization are practically out of the question, and there are no cysts or pouches, such as the old man has; and in such conditions what more can be demanded of the surgeon, for a child with stone, than to remove the foreign body and let the empty viscus take care of itself. This, litholapaxy can perfectly effect. Possibly in some rare cases where prolonged drainage may be demanded for ulcerated surfaces, the perineal operation may still be called upon, but with greater and greater rarity as time goes on. And the same conclusions, or nearly the same, apply to the adult male, with certain exceptions for such irregularities as tumor, tuber- cular disease, foreign body, or irregularities necessitating digital or ocular exploration, in which case the perineal or suprapubic cutting operation may need to be called into use rather than the crushing manoeuvre. Still, in properly selected cases, it is well to emphasize here the con- viction which has gained ground in all places of late, namely this: that no large stone should be extracted under any circumstances through the perineum, that is, unless it has been previously broken up. Anything over an inch and a quarter in diameter at the outside, it may safely he said, if taken out whole should come away above and