64 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. without establishing drainage. It does not seem, however, that the question of moderate irrigation with aseptic fluids, or of no irrigation at all, is one of primary importance. Some individuality seems appro- priate here. In wounds of great depth, where the parts can only be exposed with much effort, and by the use of instruments, a piece of gauze may prove a positive annoyance to the surgeon during his work. In more superficial wounds the plan is a good one. It does not seem, however, that occasional irrigation with a sterilized salt solution should endanger the good results of the dry method of operating (Landerer). Care should only be taken to fulfil the other requisites of the method, to arrest hemorrhage, and to have the wound perfectly dry before suturing. In ordinary cases the arrest of hemorrhage is a most important factor in wound-treatment. Whether this is best accomplished by compres- sion, a^ already described, or by ligature or torsion of the vessels, is an open question. Both methods will probably always remain in favor. A ligature is a foreign body, which is either absorbed or remains en- capsulated in the tissues. But if suppuration supervenes, as is now and then the case when the abdominal cavity has been tamponed, the silk ligature may become the cause of long persisting sinuses, which only close when the threads have come awa}r—sometimes after years— a decided disadvantage. Ligatures should, therefore, be applied only to those vessels which cannot be controlled by torsion or compression. Catgut should be employed for this purpose with few exceptions, even though so distinguished an authority as Kocher has declined to further use it, believing that sterilization of the raw material is not always possible. Others have even . asserted that the gut is an excellent medium for the development of germs that have accidentally entered wounds. But these arguments cannot weigh heavily when the prop- erty which pre-eminently qualifies catgut for the ligature of vessels, its absorbability, is considered. Moreover, we now know that catgut can be rendered absolutely sterile. In blood-clots which lie in wounds, germs find a very favorable soil for further development. When this occurs the clot is liquefied and disorganized, and escapes from the wound with the secretions. On the other hand, when perfect asepsis prevails, coagulated blood may lie in a wound for many days without apparently undergoing any change in size or shape. Gradually it begins to shrink, and to lose its dark color, and finally it disappears in the granulations which encroach upon it from all sides. This process of organization of blood-clot was first described by Lister, and also by Volkmann in the early days of antisep- tic surgery. The latter fully recognized its value, in cases in which large surfaces of bone, which would otherwise have lain exposed, were covered by a clot undergoing organization. Necrosis and exfoliation were thus often prevented. But it was Schede who first recommended healing under the moist blood-clot as a novel form of wound-treatment, claiming for it a large field of usefulness. His teachings were directly opposed to the opinions generally held by surgeons, who advocated, and still do advocate, the removal of all blood before closure of a wound. Schede’s attention was first called to his new method of wound-treat- ment by the good results obtained in the operation for club-foot as prac- tised by Phelps. There a large clot lies between the separated wound-