716 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NOSE AND ACCESSORY SINUSES. factors as anxiety, fright, or anger, as well as mental overwork, also frequently bring on typical attacks. The disease has been aptly named vaso-motor coryza, and occurs almost solely in “nervous” patients with ill-controlled vaso-motor centres, who complain of troublesome cardiac action, profuse perspirations, sensations of numbness in the limbs, cold extremities, etc. Idiosyncratic corzya is therefore regarded as essen- tially a nervous disease, demanding both peripheral and general treat- ment. The results of examination of the nose are not conclusive. The ordi- nary symptoms of acute coryza are present during the acute attack, and any of the lesions of chronic rhinitis may also be found. In long- standing cases the inferior turbinated bodies frequently present a re- markable pallor of surface. Treatment.—The therapeutic management of typical cases of hay fever is divisible into that proper for the attack, and the methods which may be used during the intervals to prevent return of the disease. A sufficiently strong solution of cocaine will nearly always relieve a parox- ysm for a limited time; but the alkaloid ultimately rather aggravates than relieves the local disease, and is invariably followed by more or less constitutional poisoning and serious results. Used only occasion- ally as an adjuvant to more radical measures, simply to tide the patient over the height of the attack, cocaine has a legitimate field of useful- ness in this disease. The solution used must never exceed ten per cent, in strength, and four per cent, is sufficient for many cases; the appli- cations should not be made oftener than two or three times in the twenty-four hours. The solution is best applied by the ordinary medi- cine dropper, the patient bending the head backward and injecting a few drops of the fluid into the nasal chamber; frequently only one side will require amesthetizing to secure relief. Menthol stands next in value to cocaine as an agent for the relief of acute paroxysms. It may be used as an inhalant as described under acute coryza, or as a spray dissolved in fluid albolene—the strength in the latter case should range from four to ten grains to the ounce, as may be best suited to the individual case. Cubeb cigarettes give great comfort to a few patients, the smoke being allowed to escape from the mouth through the nostrils; from three to rive may be allowed each day. Aqueous nasal sprays usually act as irritants during the height of the attack, but sedative inhalations through the mouth, on the other hand, often act well in allaying irritation of the lower respiratory tract. Such minor points as the wearing of blue glasses in the sunlight, and a respirator when dust is to be encountered, together with the use of gos- samer veils whenever possible, often make up the difference between absolute wretchedness and comparative comfort to the patient. MacDonald recommends the opium pipe, a few whiffs being suffi- cient, and speaks in the highest terms of chromic acid, finding it the most valuable local remedy.1 He uses it in the form of “a spray of very weak chromic acid, i to ^ of a grain to the ounce of water. This should be sprayed warm into the nose for five minutes three or four times a day, according to the severity of the case and the relief experienced.” Among the many internal remedies which have been lauded as 1 Diseases of the Nose, p. 239.