HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. 921 Five or six ounces of water in the latter is sufficient, but one or two ounces will do. I have never seen the bladder so contracted, as re- ported by McGill and others, that it could not be reached by this route. After the bleeding, which, unless the prostate has been nicked, is trifling, has been arrested, the bladder should be examined, first by the finger and then with a small electric light (pea size) introduced through the suprapubic wound, or an assistant with two fingers in the rectum may push the posterior wall of the bladder up into the wound, when it can easily be inspected. A large catheter is now introduced through the wound into the bladder, and the water in the rectal bag is permitted to escape; as it does so the bladder sinks lower and lower in the pelvis, until the vesical opening is two and a half or three inches lower than the centre of the abdominal incision. It is important to make the catheter follow the bladder as it descends, or it will escape from the organ altogether. To avoid the necessity of introduc- ing into the bladder any greater length of tubing than neces- sary, the opening in the cathe- ter should be at its extreme end, and I have lately had ca- theters made without any late- ral opening at all. No stitches are used. Before beginning the operation it is important to have the urine acid. Nor- mally acid urine is aseptic, very acid urine is antiseptic. The free use of citric acid in the shape of lemonade is the best way that I have ever seen of making the urine acid. After the operation the wound is per- mitted to heal until no opening is left in the bladder except the track occupied by the catheter. This track should be two and a half or three inches long, should run upward and for- ward from the bladder, and should occupy the same relation to that vis- cus that the spout does to a coffee pot (see Fig. 1740). Generally the man can hold his water and expel it at will. Unless the water in his bladder rises above the level of the external opening of the artificial urethra, or even higher, because the recti muscles act slightly as a sphincter, there is no leakage no matter what position his body is in. I have repeatedly seen a man throw a stream of urine, through the new urethra, a yard from his body, the last of it coming in jets as from the natural channel. Some of my patients are able to retain the water two or three hours during the day, and five or six hours at night while lying down. To keep this track open, however, it is necessary to wear a silver or Fig. 1740.