681 AFFECTIONS OF THE CORNEA. ulcers with little discharge, and for those of traumatic origin, the ban- dage may work wonders. When ulcers show a tendency to extend, with the formation of hypopyon, nothing avails but the use of the actual cautery, and this must be boldly applied to every point. Ab- scesses and ulcers accompanied by large deposits of pus in the cornea or anterior chamber should at once be treated by Saemisch’s method of incision and evacuation. After this the wound and anterior chamber must be carefully washed out with the solution of boric acid. Ulcers that tend to extend gradually over the cornea, such as have been called serpiginous and dendritic, are often difficult to control and are very chronic. When the pupillary area is likely to be involved the actual cautery renders valuable assistance. Eserine is useful at times, but is generally found to do most good in old and chronic ulcers that perhaps have been caused by some lid affection. Rarely is eserine useful in acute ulceration, but in one rapidly progressing case which had been caused by the injudicious use of jequirity in an acute attack of granular lids, eserine at once changed the condition and saved the eye. Threatened perforation of the cornea must be guarded against by bandaging, and occasional paracentesis may be required until the corneal tissues have regained their strength. This of course renders infection of the an- terior chamber more liable to occur if there is much discharge, but this procedure is preferable to having the cornea burst, leaving a ragged opening and prolapse of the iris. The opening in the cornea should be in the healthy portion and as far from the ulcer as possible, in order that there may be less danger of infection. The employment of eserine and atropine to prevent prolapse of the iris is not practically useful, for when the break occurs the iris goes in, and besides, in those cases in which eserine has been used there is greater danger of the formation of syneclike. Should perforation have occurred before the patient is seen, nothing can be done toward reduction, and on no ac- count should the iris be interfered with, for, acting as a plug in the wound, it prevents further infection of the anterior chamber, and keeps the aqueous humor from escaping and thus causing obliteration of the chamber. Absolute cleanliness is essential, and beyond this little treatment will be necessary. At times weak solutions of atropine will aid very much in allaying the irritation, but at other times they in- crease it, so that it is only by trial that their effect can be known. Gentle pressure should be kept up by a bandage to prevent further bulging of the iris in the wound, and in time the inflammation will subside, the projecting portion will become flattened, and nothing but the hazy spot and distorted pupil will remain. Finally, constitu- tional treatmeut is of paramount importance, and the digestive func- tions should receive careful supervision and regulation when necessary. The scrofulous cases are generally very tedious, and it will often tax the skill of the surgeon to meet the many complications that arise. Those cases which are due to malarial poison are benefited by large doses of quinine, repeated at short intervals for several days and then gradually diminished. For obstinate cases of malarial or other origin, arsenic in the form of Fowler’s solution, and given in ascending doses, is of decided benefit. Keratitis is at times caused by delayed or irreg- ular menstruation, and then usually disappears when that function is established.