EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 53G have to add 58 more, making a total of 84 operations. The two pa- tients recorded as “still under treatment,” when Vol. III. was pub- lished. both recovered, and of the 58 additional cases 53 terminated favorably and only 5 in death, the whole 84 cases therefore giving 77 recoveries (2 after subsequent amputation) and only 7 deaths, a mor- tality of but 8.3 per cent., while a useful limb is known to have been obtained in at least 63, or 78.2 per cent. In view of these figures I confess to have read with some surprise, in the account of a recent dis- cussion on the subject in a neighboring city, the apparently uncontra- dicted assertion that surgeons generally do not favor knee-joint exci- sion, but look upon the operation with distrust. Certainly an operation after which only one patient in twelve perishes, and which secures a useful limb in three-fourths of the cases in which it is employed, is preferable to amputation, which ordinarily is the only alternative, and is entitled to confidence rather than distrust. I have been encouraged by the good results afforded in my hands by knee-joint excision, to extend the age-limit which I had formerly adopted, in either direction, and my table now includes successful operations in a child of 3 and in an adult of 57. Arthrectomy in Knee-Joint Disease.—The operation of arthrectomy, or evasion of joints, introduced by Wright, of Manchester, consists in laying open the joint, as for an excision, and then cutting away with knife or scissors, or scraping away with the sharp spoon, all the soft tissues of the articulation, without removing any portion of the bone, or at most using the gouge only superficially. In the case of the knee, the ligament of the patella is divided, and its segments are afterward brought together again with cliromicized catgut sutures. The semi- lunar cartilages are of course removed. When the case does well, union occurs by fibrous anchylosis, the joint-cavity being obliterated by firm adhesions. The result of this operation, in the knee, at least, is very satisfactory, the shape of the articulation being preserved and the limb being extremely useful; it is, however, a more tedious pro- cedure than excision, and, the cure being effected by fibrous and not by bony anchylosis, there is a good deal of tendency to subsequent contraction, requiring the use for a long time of external support. I have resorted to arthrectomy of the knee in eleven cases, ten of the patients recovering from the operation, though in one instance recur- rent caries required consecutive excision, which was followed by rapid cure. The eleventh case terminated fatally on the thirty-seventh day, from causes unconnected with the operation, the wound having done well throughout. The nine other patients recovered with useful limbs. Patella.—I have twice practised total excision of the patella: once, as a primary operation, in a case of compound fracture with comminu- tion, the patient making a good recovery; and once, as a secondary procedure, in a case originally of simple fracture, in which another sur- geon had unsuccessfully employed bone-suture, and in which, when the patient came under my care, the knee-joint was full of pus, and the patella was carious. This patient improved temporarily after the operation, but subsequently large congestive abscesses formed in the leg, and death ultimately resulted from chronic septic infection. A legitimate resource in certain cases of compound fracture, the opera-