223 ETIOLOGY. rall}r taken for an inflammatory mass; amputation was finally per- formed seven weeks after the injury, but recurrence took place and death followed. Bessel-Hagen instances a case of sarcoma of the jeju- num which developed in a bo}r seven years old soon after a blow upon the abdomen from a man’s fist. Gross found a history of trauma in ten per cent, of his cases of sarcoma of the breast. In one case of con- genital sarcoma in a child, there was a" history of a severe blow upon the abdomen of the mother during the sixth month of pregnancy (Phillips). Carcinoma and epithelioma are not nearly so common after single severe injuries. They have most frequently developed in the mamma. Gross, in his collection of 1511 cases of carcinoma of the breast, found a clear history of injury in over thirteen per cent., and in one quarter of these it was proven that the tumor had originated directly from the induration which followed the injury. Fink in his 190 cases found antecedent trauma in over twenty-one per cent., while in thirteen per cent, the tumor came directly from the residual lump. Some observers, however, find the proportion as low as four per cent. Combining all the available figures with those of Gross, the average becomes twelve per cent. Blum and Duval have recorded a case in which a man eighty years of age abraded the backs of both hands accidentally; one healed naturally, but the wound of the other remained open, ulcerated, and became epitheliomatous. Perhaps this case belongs rather to the next variety of traumatism, and probably we should so classify a case ob- served by myself in a woman past middle age, who had received a burn upon the back of one finger; the wound never healed, but ulcerated and became epitheliomatous, requiring ■amputation of the member less than six months after the injury. (3.) The third variety of traumatism is that due to chronic irritation— from the hot clay-pipe of the workman, the sharp corner of a decayed tooth, the contact of soot or crude paraffin, the friction of a calculus in the urinary bladder (and pefhaps also in the gall-bladder), and the slight but constant irritation of such inflammatory conditions as fistulse, ulcers, leukoplakia, lupus, psoriasis, etc. The not infrequent association of mastitis with cancer, and the development of epithelioma in cicatrices, must be included in this category. As to mastitis, Gross found that in 907 cases of women with carcinoma of the breast who had borne children, in 101 cases, or 13 percent., there had been mastitis in the dis- eased breast, while in 49 cases, or over 5 per cent., the tumors could be directly traced from the induration left from that attack. Sarcoma is much rarer than epithelioma as a consequence of chronic irritation, al- though Seydel has reported a case in the site of an old gunshot fracture which had healed with a sinus. In similar situations, such as old necrosis cavities, epithelioma has been found by Nicoladoni, Feigel, and Krevet. Schuchardt carefully studied the changes occurring in the epithelium in psoriasis (leukoplakia) buccalis, in chimney-sweep’s cancer, and in the epithelioma following seborrhoea of the aged, and found in all an increased growth of cells with greater tendency to cornification, and an increase in the quantity of the chemical substance which is present wherever cornification of the epithelium occurs, named “eleidin” by Ranvier. He also reports a case in which he observed changes of the