LYMPHANGEITIS. 367 collateral lymph circulation becoming established. Small experimen- tal wounds in animals have been found to heal, the same result being of course possible in the human being. Treatment.—I have seen in consultation two cases of chylous ascites caused by the pressure of enlarged lymphatic glands which probably led to rupture of the receptaculum chyli or a large lymph trunk, though in neither, at the post-mortem examination, could any opening into a lymphatic vessel be demonstrated. One patient died after repeated tappings from exhaustion, and the other from the same cause after an apparently successful abdominal section with drainage, all chylous fluid having soon ceased to flow, doubtless owing-to occlusion of the leaking- vessel by plastic peritonitis. The operation was done with this end in view, and, as far as one case goes, suggests the propriety of abdominal section with antiseptic packing and drainage under similar circum- stances. Treatment of Wounds of Large Lymphatic Trunks.—With our present knowledge of the germicidal power of carbolic acid, but still more on account of its irritant effects, the advice to apply pressure “ by a suitable compress, . . . soaked in a lotion of carbolic acid (1 to 40)” should be substituted by the recommendation to employ a thoroughly aseptic pad after dusting with aseptic iodoform or the interposition between the wound and compress of some protective whenever carbolic acid, corrosive sublimate, or other poisonous germicide is used. Four cases of accidental wound of the thoracic duct, inflicted while removing cervical tumors, have been collected by Keen.1 These show what should be done in the way of treatment: one patient recovered after imme- diate antiseptic tamponnade of the wound, and another after the appli- cation of pressure-forceps for three days to the tissues forming the exter- nal orifice of the fistula (a secondary operation). Keen detected a wound one-fourth of an inch long in a tube one-eighth of an inch in diameter, and sewed it up with fine silk, employing drainage for a few hours and then closing the wound. The patient returned home in eight days. Lymphangeitis. The division into simple and septic lymphangeitis may be an excel- lent one clinically, but the idea implied that one occurs without the presence of germs, and that the other results from the action of micro- organisms, is incorrect. All forms of lymphangeitis, even the most typical reticular variety,2 result from the presence in the lymph vessels of some one of the pyogenic organisms. The “wandering” form of Curnow, or what Rosenbach has described as “erysipeloid,” has been shown by the latter to be due to the invasion of the superficial lym- phatic plexuses by a specific thread-forming, spore-producing micro- organism which is derived from decomposing animal matter. The pres- ence of micro-organisms in the lymphatics induces the formation of clots, which usually incompletely block the lumina of these vessels. 1 New York Med. Jour., vol. lix., pp. 569-572. 2 F. Fischer and E. Levy, Verhandl. Deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Chirurg., XX. Congress, 1892 (Annals of Surgery, vol. xv., p. 488).