692 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. ment is the only one from which any assistance may he expected, but in this, too, are many disappointments. C. S. Bull, after a large ex- perience, concludes that operation upon a chronic glaucoma is a grave responsibility, and that the patient should be made fully aware of the doubt of benefit, and of the possible chance of utter failure and loss of vision. The stationary condition is better treated with eserine, and fre- quent examinations should be made; when the disease exists in both eyes and when vision is good, the more advanced should be operated upon first; iridectomy is not always followed by good results, but lessened vision or total loss may follow. All things being equal, the earlier the opera- tion is performed the more likely is it to be successful; disease is gener- ally present in both eyes sooner or later; the age and health of the patient determine the advisability of operation, fair vision in such cases pre- cluding interference; the condition of the field of vision, the acuity of vision, and the depth of the anterior chamber, do not indicate the chances for success, the appearance and mobility of the iris being more important. When this reacts promptly to eserine, the operation is more apt to he successful (Nettleship), and in these cases the visual acuity and condition of the field are better; the depth of the excavation and color of the optic disk bear no fixed relation to the condition of the field or of vision, nor to prognosis; the condition of tension does not in- dicate the time for operating unless it steadily increases, nor does it necessarily affect the visual acuity or the field. • Cfruening summarizes as follows in regard to iridectomy for glau- coma: 1. In acute inflammatory glaucoma iridectomy yields brilliant results. 2. In chronic inflammatory glaucoma without degenerative changes in the iris, iridectomy gives satisfactory results. 3. In chronic inflammatory glaucoma with degenerative changes in the iris, neither iridectomy nor anterior sclerotomy gives to the patient the desired relief. Posterior sclerotomy may do it at times. 4. In simple glau- coma iridectomy generally maintains the previous condition, and is therefore indicated. 5. In intermittent glaucoma the operation of iridectomy is often followed by reduction of sight. Hemorrhagic Glaucoma.—This disease is comparatively rare, and fortunately so, because all cases have been invariably lost, the treatment ending in enucleation of the eye on account of the terrible pain. In most cases there is general arterial sclerosis, with profound hyaline or fibrous degeneration of the retinal vessels, the vessels of the choroid and iris being affected less regularly. Eetinal vacuoles are found filled with fibrinous exudates, or empty, and they naturally accompany the hyaline degeneration of the vascular system of the retina. Hemor- rhages maybe present, or the blood may have disappeared by absorption (old cases). The choroid may show inflammatory infiltration, or may be healthy (Pagenstecher). The iris is affected as the choroid, except that the vessels are more apt to degenerate. Adhesive obliteration of the iris angle and of Fontana’s spaces is not constantly found as in acute or subacute irritative glaucoma. When it exists, it is caused by increasing irritation of all parts of the globe and is not a cause of them. Hemorrhagic glaucoma seems to be a disease rather of retinal origin than of the uveal tract, as is irritative glaucoma (Poncet). The hard- ness of the eye is the only point in common. In the irritative form the