734 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. the cheek. A mere thread comes through the cutaneous opening while the base of the cone occupies the opening in the mucous membrane. Thus the saliva is carried in the direction of the larger opening, and finally the minute external opening is closed. Irregularly placed glandular fistulie may he remediable only by dis- secting out the offending portion of the secreting gland. Fistuke resulting from suppurative disease of the frontal sinus and lachrymal sac usually need the establishment of drainage downward into the nose. Antral accumulations may be drained into the nose by a per- foration made below the inferior turbinated bone, or into the mouth by an opening made above the bicuspid teeth. A drill or strong carti- lage knife should be employed, and the opening should be kept patulous by a tent or plug. The cavity often requires irrigation with mild anti- septic solutions if the cure is to be expedited. Extraction of a tooth is seldom required. Facial Spasm. The intractable spasm of the muscles supplied by the facial nerve, called histrionic spasm or tic convulsif, at times becomes so annoying that the surgeon is consulted. The spasms which are usually clonic, though occasionally tonic, are not associated with pain, and this disease is quite different from the neuralgia of the fifth cranial nerve called tic douloureux. Gray has proposed the term pahnus for the former con- dition.1 The patient should not be subjected to stretching of the facial nerve, which has some value at least as a temporary measure, until medical treatment has proved to be unavailing. Galvanism has been employed, as have arsenic, atropine, and kindred remedies, administered by hypo- dermic injection or by the mouth. Hammond claims to have given some relief by an apparatus consisting of a spring and pads, to make pressure on the facial nerves at their points of exit. This was worn by his patient with benefit, but the pressure could not be borne for more than a couple of hours. Nerve stretching has not been very satisfactory; but it is an opera- tion of no special danger, and has afforded relief for as much as five years in at least one case. The incision, made immediately behind the auricle, should be about two and a half inches long, and angular, with the apex of the angle, in the middle of the cut, pointing backward at the point of the mastoid process. The facial nerve is found in the nar- row space between the parotid gland in front and the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle behind. The nerve is situated at a depth of from one to one and a half inches, and lies in front of the fascia over the pre- vertebral muscles. It is uncovered at about a half-inch in front of the stylo-mastoid foramen, through which the nerve makes its exit from the cranium, and is in front of the centre of the anterior margin of the mastoid process, and from a quarter to a half inch anterior to that spot. If the posterior belly of the digastric is seen, the operator must keep above its border. The transverse processes of the vertebrse and the styloid process are aids to the identification of the relations. Reflected light from a head-mirror may be requisite to illuminate the 1 Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., May, 1895, p. 535.