498 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. joints, cause a violent purulent arthritis,1 and Rosenbach has found the same coccus in furuncles, empyema, and pyaemia, so that we must infer that an acute septic process lies at the bottom of these cases. This form of joint disease at times occurs after the exanthemata,2 and in other in- stances a source of purulent infection may be found in a suppurating umbilicus, an empyema, or the like. In many cases, however, we must adopt the suggestion of Roswell Park, and assume “that the infection may occur through the ears, eyes, nose, mouth, pharynx, respiratory passages, mucosa of the alimentary canal, or skin; . . . furthermore from any subcutaneous phlegmon however small.”3 No form of coccus has yet been discovered in the acute arthritis of infants which is different from the cocci of acute osteomyelitis, so that, as stated by Park, the conclusions are that “ (1) there is no specific microbe for the production of acute infectious processes in bone; (2) most of the staphylococci can cause them, and exceptionally the strep- tococci; (3) the staphylococcus aureus is the most pernicious of all forms.” In short, this acute joint infection is to be regarded as a form of pyaemia; ten years ago it was conjectured that such was the case, but to-day the statement rests upon excellent pathological evidence. It is probable, however, although not definitively established, that cer- tain forms of this acute arthritis are merely manifestations of joint tuberculosis of exceptional rapidity and virulence, qualities which are apt to characterize surgical tuberculosis in very young children. Diseases of the Special Joints. Hip-Joint Disease.—The treatment of Hip Disease has been the subject of much discussion of late years. Attempts have been made to formulate the results of practice, and ambulatory treatment has been both denounced and most warmly advocated. The many manifesta- tions of tuberculous disease of the hip have been in part to blame for the varying conclusions, and 14 have elsewhere attempted to classify for clinical purposes these variations in the disease, distinguishing four types or forms. These are;— («) The Destructive Form, where the disease is rapid, severe, and but little influenced by ordinary treatment; extensive infiltration of the soft parts takes place, and in most instances the disease passes on to a fatal issue. (b) The Painful Form, where pain is a prominent symptom, and exacerbations are common. (c) The Quiet or Painless Form, where pain is an unimportant factor or is entirely absent. (cl) The Transient or Ephemeral Form ,5 where the symptoms are mild and the course of the disease is run in a few months. It may be said that in general American orthopiedic surgeons believe 1 Id., Mikro-Organismen bei d. Wundinfections-Krankheiten, Wiesbaden, 1894. 2 Holmes. Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases. McLeod, Indian Med. Gazette, 1883, p. 232. Ancell, Archives of Medicine, 1830, vol. iv., p. 49. Asbhy and Wright, Diseases of Children. 3 American Journ. of Med. Sciences. July, 1889. 4 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Oct. 13, 1892. 5Ibid., Aug. 18, 1892.