oZo DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. . and the swathe is a firm and efficient bandage. The clothes are put on without disturbing the arm, and counter-irritation is applied to the joint by iodine, blisters, or preferably light scoring with the Paquelin cautery. This is likely to cause the sensitiveness to diminish rapidly. After some days, or two or three weeks, of such fixation, the bandage is removed daily for a few minutes of massage and passive manipulation, and is then at once reapplied. Gradually the time of passive motion is increased, and active motion is substituted, always remembering that the chief danger is of going too fast rather than too slowly, and not allowing rough or painful manipulation. In my hands this plan has yielded the most satisfactory results, much more so than electricity, forcible manipulation, or rough massage. Tubercular Disease of the shoulder is fortunately not very common, and occurs most often in children. It is not practicable to apply traction satisfactorily on account of the impossibility of obtaining counter- extension in the axilla, because of the vessels and nerves there. For- tunately the weight of the arm in itself furnishes a mild form of traction, and with such fixation as can be furnished by a plaster band- age enveloping the arm, chest, and shoulder, satisfactory results are generally attainable. Excision is to be undertaken when the disease is progressing in spite of a fair trial of expectant measures. Disease of the Elbow-Joint.—Little need be said that has not already been mentioned in speaking of other joints. Disease is made evident by swelling of the synovial sac with pain and muscular limita- tion, along with wasting of the arm and forearm. Flexion and perhaps rotation are painful; the arm is held stiffly by the muscles, perhaps at a right angle, but more commonly, and especially in severe cases, somewhat extended. The indications are, just as in similar conditions in the shoulder or the hip, to rest the affected joint, and dis- traction of the joint surfaces would be desirable could it be obtained. But the apparatus invented for that purpose is so cumbersome as to be useless, and the best substitute is plaster of Paris, or a leather splint, simply preventing motion. Continued fixation by a tin internal angular splint is objectionable on account of the necessity of using sticking-plaster, the irritation attendant upon which is an annoyance. Fixation must be persisted in until joint irritability has ceased, as tested by the subsidence of pain, heat, swelling, and muscular irrita- bility. As in the other joints, fixation may be gradually removed when this condition has become permanent. Excision is to be deferred in the case of children as long as possible, for often the most surprisingly bad cases will recover under expectant treatment, and the results of elbow-joint excision done in children for tubercular disease are not encouraging. Fortunately the disease is chiefly confined to young adults, where the results of resection are more favorable. Disease of the Wrist-Joint and Carpus.—This offers no especial features of interest. The joint is easy to fix, traction is not needed, and a plaster-of-Paris, a leather, or a tin splint is sufficient to fulfil all in dications. Excision is necessary in persistent or bad cases.