DISEASES OF BRAIN FROM SUPPURATIVE DISEASE OF MIDDLE EAR. 599 ease, there may have been a chronic otorrhea. But it must not be for- gotten that if the membrana tympani is intact there will be no dis- charge from the ear, and yet cerebral pyaemia and sinus thrombosis may follow the otitis media and destroy life. Pitt1 says that in 9 cases out of 57 (16 per cent.), sinus thrombosis without external discharge from the ear was the cause of death. In either case an acute illness arises, characterized by headache, pain in the region of the sinus, distinct and repeated rigors, sweats, and violent oscillations of temperature; in other words, all the ordinary evidences of pyaemia which would natur- ally be expected to follow a septic thrombus in so large a venous sinus. Usually there will be tenderness and oedema over the mastoid, with ten- derness over the sinus itself, that is, in a line from the external auditory meatus to the inion. Bennett2 has called especial attention to what he deems a pathognomonic symptom, viz.: tenderness over the mastoid vein (Fig. 1689, i), and has termed it “ post-mastoid tenderness.” It ex- ists even when there is no tenderness over the mastoid itself. In addi- tion to this, as has already been mentioned, since the thrombus often extends still farther in the direction of the blood-current into the inter- nal jugular vein, tenderness and other inflammatory manifestations will be found also in the neck in the course of that vein, that is, along the anterior border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. In consequence of the formation of the clot, the vein will be felt as a tense and tender cord, unless, as often occurs, a periphlebitis has developed, which will cause a more widespread brawny hardness. In some cases, indeed, the vein is entirely destroyed, and there may be developed an abscess in the neck. In one of Bennett's cases3 the wall of the jugular vein was broken down, and the abscess communicated with the lumen of the vessel. In my own case the vein was recognized with great difficulty, being almost lost in the matted tissues of the neck. Shield4 reports a case of thrombus extending into the veins at the root of the nose, and Lanciol5 two cases of thrombosis of the cavernous sinus. Choked disc is almost invariably present in sinus thrombosis. Care must be taken not to mistake the disease for typhoid fever, especially as there are often severe headache and otorrhea in the early stages of that affec- tion. The violent oscillations of temperature and choked disc in sinus thrombosis, the different prodromata, and the abdominal symptoms and rose spots in typhoid fever, will afford the means of differential diagnosis. Not only may there be thrombosis of the lateral sinuses, but occasion- ally the petrosal and the cavernous sinuses are involved. Thrombosis of the former has no local symptoms by which it can be determined, but in the case of the latter, from the thrombosis blocking the ophthal- mic vein, there may be hyperaemia of the retinal veins with extensive oedema of the frontal veins and lids, and exophthalmos from retro- bulbar oedema. From the pressure on the nerves in the cavernous sinus we may have also neuralgia of the first division of the fifth nerve, and paralysis of the abducens (sixth), patlieticus (fourth), or motor oculi (third) nerve. But any one or even all of these local symptoms may be absent. Occasionally also there may be a true pyiemia without thrombosis of any of the sinuses. 1 Loc. cit. 2 Lancet, 1893, vol. ii., p. 619. 3 Loc. cit. 4 Archives of Otology, vol. xxi., No. 7. 5 Centralbl. f. Chir., 1892, S. 238.