289 CARCIKOMA. spread in the connective tissue between the muscular fibres. When the muscle has once been invaded, it is impossible to determine by gross appearances how extensively it is diseased, and therefore the only safe method of treatment is a complete anatomical extirpation of the pecto- ralis, as well as of the breast itself, whenever this is adherent to the muscle, since it is then certain that the growth has begun in the latter. In every case the pectoral fascia should be removed with the breast, and dissected off in such a way as to remove with it a thin layer of muscular fibres, for it is rather indistinct in its boundaries, dipping down into septal prolongations between the muscular fasciculi. The date of infection of the lymphatic glands and skin appears to be very variable. It is possible for the skin to be affected without any disease in the glands. Poulsen notes ten such cases in a series of twenty-one, cured by simple amputation without clearing out the axilla. Fig. 1604. Atrophic Scirrhus in a Woman Seventy Years Old. In 206 cases in which this point was noted (from Schmidt and Dietrich), neither skin nor glands were involved in 4.3 per cent., the skin alone was invaded in 14.5 per cent., and the glands alone in 12 per cent., while in all the rest both were affected. The latest date at which both remained healthy is given by Schmidt as seven and one-third months, and by Hildebrand as eight and three-quarters months, but glandular affection may be delayed longer than this, being given by these author- ities as eight, sand as nine and three-quarter months, on the average. Gross, however, in his large collection makes the average date of glan- dular implication 14.7 months, and says, in contradiction to the figures just given, that it antedates invasion of the skin by a month. In a case of atrophying scirrhus Gross saw infection of the glands delayed for five years, and says that in one case on record it was absent up to seven years, as in my case just described. Poulsen, too, relates a case of scirrhus operated upon after the disease had lasted for seven years, the breast only being removed and the axilla left untouched, and yet the VOL. vii.—19