DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. 106 to eliminate the source of infection by attacking the primary focus, if this is within reach of the knife. Much more important than the treatment is the prophylaxis of pyaemia, for it can be avoided with cer- tainty, as I have repeatedly declared. III. Hospital Gangrene. A short sketch of hospital gangrene (gangraena nosocomialis) may be of some interest, though mostly historical, since it has practically dis- appeared from the list of diseases known in civilized countries. Only in war-times might we see it again, if the general effort to invent a simple hut effective method of dressing and treating wounds on the field of battle should fail to fulfil what it promises. Hospital gangrene is a wound-infection of local character and un- doubted bacterial origin, consisting in gangrenous decay of the granu- lations of a wound and its surrounding tissue. Its specific micro- organism has not thus far been ascertained. The question of the identity of hospital gangrene with diphtheria has been widely discussed, and seems to be decided in the negative. The nature of hospital gangrene in a pathological and anatomical sense may be defined as necrotic coagulation (Coagulations-nekrose of Cohnlieim and Weigert), with masses of micrococci and bacteria of putrefaction. Hospital gangrene has occurred mostly, as the name indicates, though not at all exclusively, in hospitals where many patients with suppurating wounds have been crowded together, and has appeared as an epidemic, sporadic cases being unusual. It is decidedly contagious, its transferability being experimentally proved by O. Weber. Clinically we discriminate three distinct forms, the superficial croup- ous and diphtheritic form, the diphtheritic ulcerous, and the pulpy form, the latter being the most malignant. There are of course many transitional forms, which make it impossible to distinguish strictly the different kinds. They vary in their symptoms from the formation of a diphtheritic membrane, with slight swelling and consecutive decay, to rapid turgescence of the tissues caused by extensive hemorrhages into the granulations, with putrid decomposition of the whole mass, and generation of gases. The turgid gray or reddish-gray wound looks, as Konig says very aptly, like a putrid, softened spleen or brain. The course of the disease depends entirely upon the depth to which the gangrene penetrates, and upon when the process comes to a stop. The rapidity with which the gangrene spreads is very variable, the wound in some cases increasing to more than double its size within twenty-four hours, while in other cases the disease progresses slowly. The general symptoms correspond exactly to the intensity of the local process, and show the true characteristics of septic fever. The prognosis depends entirely upon the form of the gangrene, and upon the remedies adopted. Treatment is by no means a thankless task; the energetic application of the thermo-cautery of Paquelin, or of caustic chemicals, especially bromine, nitric acid, or chloride of zinc, will be effectual in limiting the gangrene. In a few cases amputation may be required. Out of consideration for other patients, every case of hospital gangrene should be strictly isolated.