CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 7 least a process answering all the histological requirements of that expression, occurs without the action of bacteria. The experiments spoken of make it im- possible to doubt that such processes as they speak of may occur, although it is not yet proved that these processes should be included under the head of true suppuration. It is an experimental suppuration, perhaps, but as far as is apparent it differs, entirely from the processes observed in man. Experimental suppuration produced by chemical action is localized, and never spreads from the place of origin; there is never any metastasis, the amount ft directly in pro- portion to the amount of the irritating agent made use of, and the products of this form of suppuration never produce new activity when introduced into other animals—characteristics differing very markedly from what is known of true bacterial, or, as may be said, of human suppuration. If one were obliged to sum up the present position of affairs, it would be something like this: notwith- standing the laboratory experiments to show the possible occurrence of chemical suppuration, it still remains to be demonstrated that the infection of wounds as seen in practice occurs without the influence of bacterial activity. The num- bers and varieties of bacteria thus occurring are well shown by the summaries of Zuckermann and Karlinsky. This being true, such researches as those of Ullmann and Welch, showing where these bacteria are most commonly found, are of special value. The most important lessons yet taught to us are those which warn us that our pupilage is not yet over, and that we are but entering upon the first stage of our knowledge of the processes spoken of here to-day. This position in regard to the effect, of bacteria upon wounds may be held and defended in regard to most forms of inflammation that come under observation. The processes that must be excluded from those produced by7 bacteria form a class by themselves, and should be consid- ered under a separate group, and here it is interesting to quote some of the conclusions of Park 1 upon wound infection. In closing, he says that the particular features to which he would especially invite atten- tion may be epitomized in the following conclusions:— Sepsis may arise from circumstances and conditions other than those pertain- ing to the wound itself, although hitherto practitioners have been too prone to scan solely this field in searching for its cause. Sepsis and infection are combated in more than one way by natural agencies and by inherent properties of cells and fluids, totally aside from the measures which the surgeon institutes. A recogni- tion of the power of chemiotaxis jiossessed by organized and unorganized ma- terials in such varying degree, can be utilized to great advantage, as soon as it can be reasonably clearly defined. Welch also may be quoted in the same direction from his article upon “Conditions Underlying the Infection of Wounds,”2 in which some of the conclusions reached are as follows:— “ The number of different species of bacteria, particularly of bacilli, revealed by the systematic study of traumatic infections, is much greater than was for- merly supposed; the pyogenic staphylococci and streptococci, however, are by far the most common causes of suppurative affections of wounds. A coccus, which may appropriately be called the Staphylococcus Epidermidis Aldus, is a nearly, if not quite, constant inhabitant of the epidermis, lying both superfi- cially and also deeper than can be reached by present methods of disinfection of the skin. ... It is the most common cause of stitch abscesses in wounds treated antiseptically or aseptically. The pathogenic bacteria set up suppuration by means of chemical substances produced by them, and entering into their com- 1 Transactions of the Congress of American Physicians and Surgeons, vol. ii., page 49. 2 Ibid., page 27.