288 TUMORS. tively benign character is shown by the fact that four patients who were not operated upon lived from eleven to fourteen years. Al- though in sixteen cases treated by operation the axillary glands are only twice noted to have been affected, metastases do occur. The cases were not observed for a sufficient length of time to allow any idea to be formed of the ultimate results of operation. Simmonds describes the structure of these tumors as made up of dilated acini containing cell-nests in their centres, surrounded by a layer of colloid material lying between the epithelium and the walls of the acini, and cutting off its nutrition so that it dies and breaks up into granular detritus. He thinks it clear that the hyaline material comes from the epithelium. Dreyfuss, however, while agreeing in this last statement, finds colloid material in the epithelial cells and between them, as well as between them and the walls of the acini; and Masterman found colloid masses in the centre of the alveolus in one case, the epithelium remaining at- tached to its walls, while in another case this material lay in streaks between the cells throughout the acinus. While discussing the pathology of tumors of the breast, it is neces- sary to recall the observations of Creighton on the comparative fre- quency with which carcinoma begins in certain very deep sebaceous glands of the skin, in the axilla. The origin of many cases in which the disease begins beyond the periphery of the breast is readily ex- plained by referring it to these peculiar glands. The rate of growth of mammary carcinoma is very variable, and while in a general way it may be said that the scirrhous variety is a slowly progressing form, and the encephaloid a rapid one, for the in- termediate varieties it is not always true that the rate of growth is proportionate to the amount of epithelial as compared with that of connective tissue. I append illustrations from two contrasting cases recently operated on by my- self. The colored plate shows a fungating carcinoma of the breast, of only four months’ growth, its microscopic structure being that of encephaloid, very rich in cells, with a scanty vascular stroma full of nuclei. Fig. 1604, on the other hand, illustrates an atrophying scirrhus of seven years or more in growth, occur- ring in a woman over 70 years of age. It had caused disappearance of the inner half of the mamma, but without ulceration. The nipple was somewhat retracted, but not involved, and the skin over the little mass of the tumor, just internal to the nipple, was red and adherent, but not ulcerated. The glands in the axilla were found enlarged, but examination after removal proved them to be free from carcinoma. Gross says that the rate of growth is not affected by the age of the patient, in contradiction to the usually received opinion that cancer grows more rapidly in the young. The rate of growth is increased by the occurrence of pregnancy and lactation. As instances of slow growth, Poulsen cites one case of medullary carcinoma in which the tumor required ten years to reach the size of a hen’s egg, and another in which the disease had involved the entire breast in the course of fifteen years. A very thorough study of the mode of extension in carcinoma of the breast, recently made by Heidenhain, shows that the growth follows the line of the lymphatics and blood-vessels, attacking very early the fascia of the pectoralis muscle, penetrating that and continuing to