FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 425 Fractures of the Femur. Cases of separation of the upper epiphysis of this bone have been re- ported by Noble Smith,1 by Robson,1 by Maylard,3 and by Davies-Colley.4 I had in my wards at the Pennsylvania Hospital, in 1889, a case which I believe to have been of this character. It was that of a boy 14 years old, who had been knocked down in a scuffle, striking on his hip; he had some shortening and eversion of the limb, with pain, and a muffled crepitus in the neck of the bone. He was treated with ex- tension and sand-bags, and recovered perfectly in nine weeks, with a limb apparently of normal length. Whitman 6 thinks that fractures of the cervix femoris are not un- common in children, and that when the diagnosis is doubtful the pre- sumption is in favor of this form of injury rather than of epiphyseal separation. He gives five instances, in children from 2J to 8 years old, in which the neck of the bone was thought to be broken, all resulting in cures. In either case the indications are to make extension and to prevent rotation, so that the question is one of no great practical im- portance. With regard to fractures of the neck of the femur, the views pre- sented in my former article are those which I still entertain. Senn’s proposition,6 that the distinction between intra-articular and extra-artic- ular fractures should be abandoned, was long ago made by Bigelow,7 and may be accepted without question, since practically the diagnosis can rarely be made during life. Some cases there undoubtedly are, in which a degenerated bone breaks across at its narrow part, near the head; and in other cases the age and the general condition of the patient pre- clude the hope of repair. I have now under my care at St. Joseph’s Hospital a woman 92 years old, who a week ago sustained a fracture of the femoral neck, who has already, in spite of every care, a large bedsore. To apply any apparatus in her case would have been simply cruelty. But in the vast majority of instances the fracture is oblique, the line running down toward the lesser trochanter; and in very many there is more or less impaction. Such was clearly the character of a case reported and figured by Raven.8 The practical deduction is, that if the necessary restraint can be borne, an effort should always be made to obtain union. For this purpose the ordinary and well-known dress- ings, applied with due care, are sufficient. Senn proposes the encase- ment of the patient, from the level of the cartilages of the eighth ribs down to the knees, in a plaster apparatus; into this on the injured side is let in a bracketed metal splint, the bracket perforated for a screw carrying a flat pad, which shall press against the trochanter, and thus hold the outer fragment closely in contact with the inner. Eight cases are adduced in which good results attended upon the employment of this apparatus; results, however, certainly not any better than those 1 Lancet, March 20, 1886. 2 Ibid., Aug. 21, 1886. 3 British Med. Journal, April 2, 1892. 4 Trans, of Clinical Society of London, vol. xxv., 1892. 5 Medical Record, Feb. 25, 1893. c Journal of the Am. Med. Association, Aug. 3, 1889. 1 The Mechanism of Dislocation and Fracture of the Hip, p. 126. (Quoted in my former article.) 8 Lancet, Aug. 6, 1887.