1055 HOSPITALS FOR INFECTIOUS DISEASES. The disinfecting apparatus is a “Ransome stove,” otherwise well known as the Notttingham self-regulating disinfecting apparatus, in which articles passed through it are subjected to a temperature of 250° F. by dry heat. It consists of a cubical iron chamber, encased in wood with an intervening layer of felt, access to the interior being had by double doors. For disinfecting stations the chamber has doors on opposite sides, and is placed in the partition wall between two rooms—an “in- fected” side into which articles are carried, and a “clean” side from which they are removed. The furnace is placed at a lower level, and Fig. 1808. Warrington Hospital, Block Plan. heat is generated by burning gas. There is an automatic regulator. A full description is given in Dr. Thorne’s report, pp. 210 to 214. An approved form of apparatus employing steam confined under pressure is Lyon’s patent steam disinfector, one of which is in use at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. This is an expensive apparatus and somewhat difficult in its method of working. These and other forms of apparatus, and experiments in testing them, are described by Dr. Parsons in his report to the Local Government Board, in 1884, on disinfecting by heat. A good resume of this subject may be found in A Manual of Public Health, by A. Winter Blyth, published by Macmillan & Co., 1890, in the chapters on disinfection by heat and by chemicals, and on the principles of construction of isolated hospitals. The Fever and Small-'pox Hospitals of the city of Glasgow form an extensive establishment, which was completed in 1887. The Small-pox Hospital has ten wards in five pavilions, and the Fever Hospital has twenty-six wards in thirteen pavilions. The pavilions are of one story, and are alike in form and arrangement; they are detached, and are ar- ranged in groups with respect to their isolation and to the administration and service buildings. One of these pavilions is shown in Fig. 1809. The two hospitals occupy a country estate of 33 acres, with large gar-