G63 SPINAL CARIES. 6 Townsend, Pliila. Med. News, 1891; Trans. Am. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1891. higher level is reached, and a head support is needed to restrict the movements of the upper portion of the spine. This head fixation may he accomplished by the jury-mast attachment (Sayre1); or by chin cup and occipital plate (Taylor'); or by a prolongation to the vertex of the posterior bars,3 properly curved, with forehead and chin straps; or by postero-lateral U-shaped supports.4 Operative Measures for Spinal Caries.—Treatment of Abscess by Aspiration and Injection. — While antiseptic measures render the opening of a spinal abscess a perfectly safe procedure, yet unfortunately the results obtained by operation are not brilliant, since it is seldom possible to remove all sources of suppuration. Abscesses that are small require injections of iodoform, 10 per cent., in boiled olive oil or in glycerin. One drachm or more may be permitted to remain after the contents have been drained off. This process may be repeated in two weeks. The procedure not only permits the inhibitory action of iodoform upon the tubercle bacilli, but it also strengthens and thickens the walls of the sac so that systemic infection is less likely to occur when an opening is made. This procedure will frequently prevent the formation of abscess when only the liquefaction of caseation is present in the sac; caseation, absorption, or encapsulation subsequently taking place, and a permanent cure resulting, provided traumatism does not reawaken the focus. Mechanical fixation is always to be associated with any form of treatment. Drainage.—When the sero-purulent material reaccumulates, or when pus is evident, an incision should be made, after very careful cleansing of the patient, and with strict precautions against the entrance of infection. The pus should be thoroughly washed out with hot boracic acid or bichloride solution in order to destroy the bacilli. No pressure should be made upon the walls of the abscess lest a fissure should ensue and infection of the system should occur. When an abscess wall can be thoroughly curetted or excised, injections with iodoform-oil may be used and immediate closure practised. When the abscess wall cannot be excised or curetted, then it is advi- sable to make a counter opening either in the loin or through the os in- nominatum, by trephining or by notching the edge of the bone, and to institute through-and-through drainage, after which washing with cor- rosive sublimate or with peroxide of hydrogen, and the employment of iodoform-oil injections together with strict antiseptic dressings, will usually greatly shorten the suppurative process. At a discussion on Spinal Caries at the American Orthopaedic Asso- ciation,5 the conclusion reached was that operative treatment of abscess, while not materially affecting the course of the disease, yet, when prop- erly combined with thorough and prolonged mechanical fixation of the diseased area, tended to shorten the period of cure, and to lower the destructive temperature of confined purulent accumulations.6 Erasionof the Vertebrce.—When it is possible to reach the diseased por- tions of the vertebras in the lumbar region, erasion should be attempted, 1 Bradford and Lovett, Orthopaedic Surgery, 1890, p. 59. 2 Ibid., p. 79. 3 Ibid., p. 82. 4 Davis, Trans. College of Physicians, Philadelphia, 1891, vol. xiii., p. 123. 5 Trans. Amer. Ortho. Assoc., 1891.