465 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BONES. frequently in the spinal column and in the long hollow bones, although it occurs also in the short and the flat bones, like those of the tarsus, carpus, pelvis, and cranium. Diagnosis of Tuberculosis of the Bones.—This is sometimes diffi- cult, especially if we bear in mind the fact, mentioned earlier in this article, that absolute certainty of the presence of the tubercle bacillus of Koch can be secured only by discovering this bacillus in the products of the lesions, or by means of culture experiments. On the whole, it may be said that what is now called tuberculosis is pretty much what used to be called scrofula, and has the symptoms, long ago well known, of that disorder. The special peculiarity of tuberculosis is, that it is a disease which advances slowly and insidi- ously, with little or no suffering, with few or no constitutional symp- toms, and consequently with little or no warning of what is taking place, until pain, deformity, and distention or discoloration of the skin attract attention to the disease at a point removed from that at which it is most active. In this, tuberculosis presents a striking con- trast to other forms of osteitis, which are usually of an acute type. As stated above, there is a chronic form of osteomyelitis in which there is no such pain as occurs in the acute infectious variety ; this affects the diaphysis of the bone, is accompanied by the formation of pus, and does not give rise to the formation of fistulous tracks or the production of fungous tissue. Of course the detection of staphylococci would settle the diagnosis. Tumors of the bones, especially sarcomata, might possibly give rise to a suspicion of tuberculosis; but the whole history of tumors and their general appearance usually make them comparatively easy of recogni- tion. When such tumors have undergone fatty degeneration and sup- puration, there may be a question of diagnosis, as stated by Gangolphe. But, as he says, such cases are exceedingly rare. Gummata of the bones are usually situated on the diaphyses, and usually a history of syphilis can be elicited on careful inquiry. Hydatid cysts of the bones are exceedingly rare, but when they occur they present very much the symptoms of tuberculosis. The patients, howrever, give little evidence of constitutional disease even when the cysts are quite large, and an error of diagnosis may be avoided by considering the impression re- ceived on palpation, that the contents of the sac are very thin and watery. An exploratory puncture, with an examination of the con- tents, would settle the diagnosis. Ollier saw a case in which he found a hydatid cyst in the upper third of the forearm, in a young woman whom he had already treated for tuberculous arthritis of the knee. In most cases of tuberculosis of the bones considerable progress has been made before the patient comes to the surgeon, who finds disor- ganization of the tissues already existing, although the evidences of dis- ease may have but recently come to the surface so as to attract the atten- tion of the patient. In such a case one may be consulted on account of pain attributed to rheumatism, which on examination is found to be caused by an abscess, and on further examination this abscess is found to be of a type called ossifluent. In other cases elevations of the skin first attract the patient’s attention, in others its discoloration. In a case recently under the care of Dr. Willard in the Presbyterian Hos- VOL. VII.—30