470 DISEASES OF BONES. Pathology.—The pathology of syphilis of the bones is indicated by what has already been said in describing its lesions. It differs from diseases with which it might be confounded in diagnosis, in that it is more painful than sarcoma or tuberculosis of the bones, and of much slower development than acute infectious osteomyelitis. The chronic form of osteomyelitis might perhaps be confounded with syphilitic dis- ease, but a careful study of the history of the case, taken with the mul- tiplicity of lesions common in syphilitic disease of the hones and uncom- mon in osteomyelitis, and the absence of implication of near superficial lymphatic glands in the case of syphilitic osteitis, would make it unlikely that these two should he mistaken one for the other. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilis of the bones is the treatment of all forms of tertiary syphilis. The various preparations of iodine or of mercury, or both, depending upon circumstances which we need not here consider, and which belong to the general state of the patient rather than to any particular manifestation of the disease which he may pre- sent, are the remedies which are most appropriate to the cure of syph- ilitic disease of the hones. The iodides appear to exercise an es- pecially favorable influence in causing the resorption of gummata. Mercury, in this stage of the disease, is to be used for its tonic effect. Happily, syphilis of the bones is ordinarily quite amenable to treatment, and responds promptly to appropriate medi- cation. Hydatid Disease of the Bones. One of the rarest forms of disease of the hones is that caused by the presence of the cysts of the larva of the taenia echinococcus. This parasite is usually derived from the in- testine of the dog, which is the natural habitat of the fully developed taenia. The whole taenia is only one-quarter of an inch long, and consists of but four segments (Fig. 1627). The rings or proglottides of this taenia when matured are evacuated with the excrement; the ova are then set free by disintegration of the surrounding tissue of the ring, and, on being swallowed, their own surrounding membrane is dis- solved in the gastric juices of their new host, so that the embryos (pro-scolices) are set free. Finding their way through the wall of the intestine, and into the blood cur- rent, they may be conveyed to any part of the body. At the point of arrest, the embryo surrounds itself with a membranous sac, which is filled with a liquid; the whole constituting what is known as a hydatid cyst. The origi- nal cyst is sometimes called the mother-cyst, and may have connected with it a number of smaller ones, called secondary or “daugh- ter” cysts. In these are developed immature taeniae (scolices) which need only liberation and transfer to a suitable soil, to develop into the perfect taenia echinococcus. In whatever tissue a hydatid, single or mul- tiple, is situated, it is surrounded by a wall of connective tissue, formed as result of the irritation of the growing parasite. Within this is the true wall of the cyst, and within this the liquid contents and the scoli- Fig. 1627. Taenia Echi- nococcus from Dog-. (Payne ) a, T®nia, ma- ture (X 10); 6, ovum (x 250).