INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 992 abundant as to form the bulk of the tumor. So prominent is this that Mr. Eve has called the tumor a fibro-adenoma. They are often found associated with cartilage, and also, though less frequently, with myxo- matous tissue. The epithelium of the cysts is derived from the tubes of the rete testis and vasa efferentia. In two out of twelve cases ciliated epithelium was found. The cells vary in shape from the Hat or tesselated variety to the spherical. Mr. Eve does not regard the distinction between the benign adeno- matous, or, as he terms them, fibro-adenomatous, and the malignant sarcomatous growths, as being at all marked. He strongly believes that there is no genetic difference between the two, and that their origin is similar though their structure is different, the cystic being the part most developed in the fibro-adenomas. This brings up the question as to whether a malignant disease is so ah initio. A scirrhus of the breast is usually so regarded, but on the other hand a benign wart is readily transformed into a malignant epithelioma. Dalziel1 reports an interesting case in which the whole epididymis was found converted into a mass of cysts. There were two large cavities, the larger being the size of a walnut. The rest of the epidi- dymis was a mass of honeycomb-like cells of various sizes, from that of a pea downward, separated by the irtranslucent walls, there being no solid tissue at all. There was spermatic matter in one of the cysts. The growth occurred in a man sixty years of age, and was of twelvemonths’ duration. It is interesting to note that this case was at first mistaken for and treated as a hydrocele. Kemoval is the only treatment for cystic as well as for all other tumors of the testicle. Dermoid Cysts of the Testicle.—According to Mr. Sutton2 there are many good reasons for believing that the majority of dermoid cysts re- ported as arising from the testicle really originate in the scrotum. Mr. D’Arcy Powers3 reported a case to the Pathological Society of London which he believed to be the first presented in the history of the society. Verneuil, after examining all existing literature, was in 1855 only able to find ten cases. Mr. Powers’s case occurred in a child four years of age. The growth had been noticed three years, and was freely movable in the scrotal sac. The testicle measured two and a quarter inches in length and one and three-quarters inches in thickness. The tumor occupied the whole body of the testis, and was enclosed by the smooth and somewhat thickened tunica vaginalis, which, however, was not adherent to it. On section it was found to contain a number of cysts, with some cartilage in the septa between the cysts. The glan- dular tissue had entirely disappeared. The wall of the largest cyst consisted of an epithelium and corium, and contained long and deli- cate hairs. There were well-developed sebaceous glands and hair folli- cles, each containing a non-medullated hair. The connective tissue was dense and possessed many of the characters of embryonic fibrous tissue. The large cyst occupied the posterior border of the organ. Van Hook and Dodds record 4 the case of a man, aged twenty-one, 1 Glasgow Medical Journal, vol. xxxvii., 1892, p. 144. 2 Op. cit., p. 282. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. London, vol. xxxviii., p. 224. 4 Chicago Medical Recorder, 1891, vol. xi., p. 321.