688 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. usually pathological. Mydriasis may he caused by a spasmodic con- traction of the radiating muscular fibres, or by paralysis of the sphincter (oculo-motor paralysis). The spasmodic contraction is caused by cere- bral irritation. Paralysis of the oculo-motor nerve may affect the pupil alone, or may also involve accommodation, and may affect the extrinsic muscles which the nerve supplies. Its causes are syphilis, cerebral diseases, and such poisons as the mydriatic alkaloids and ptomaines. Paralysis of the sphincter and of accommodation may also be due to traumatism—concussion, acting locally—and to increased intra-ocular tension causing pressure upon the nerves. In complete blindness the pupil dilates from lack of reflex action due to loss of light perception. Myosis may be due to spasm of the sphincter fibres or to paralysis of the cervical sympathetic. The spasmodic variety is caused by begin- ning meningitis, by the myotic alkaloids, and by opium, chloral, and nicotine. Paralysis of the radiating muscular fibres is caused by par- alysis of the cervical sympathetic, spinal injuries, and tabes dorsalis. This form of myosis may be distinguished by the fact that the pupil while failing to react to light will usually act synchronously with ac- commodation and convergence (Argyll-Robertson phenomenon). Hippus is rapid dilatation and contraction of the pupil, probably due to nervous disorders. Albinism.—Gould thinks that albinos are healthy in body and mind, and that there is no discoverable hereditary cause. He believes that the entire pathological influence is exerted upon the e}re, and that the condition is caused by transparency of the iris which fails to keep out the light. Cataract. The use of cocaine and the possibility of securing asepsis have sim- plified the removal of cataract and afforded brilliant results. The discovery that a cataract is forming in an eye does not now cause the mental depression and feeling of hopelessness, induced by anticipated blindness, that at one time characterized such cases, because the aver- age man is now sufficiently well informed to know that the operation is at present so well understood, and so successfully performed, that re- stored vision is almost a certainty if the case is a proper one for treat- ment. Some surgeons believe that the progress of incipient cataract may be stayed, and that eyes thus affected may last a long time for useful vision. They advise thorough examination of these eyes, and recom- mend that all sources of irritation should be removed, that errors of refraction should be accurately corrected, that attention should be directed to the general health of the patient, and that, as far as possi- ble, any irregularit}r or abnormality should he treated by appropri- ate remedies. The time for operating causes much discussion among ophthalmic surgeons, but it seems that an eye should be what Landolt calls “operable.” By this it is meant that the lens should be of nearly uniform consistence, with a minimum amount of cortical substance— in other words “ripe”—“when there has resulted a pathological dehiscence between the crystalline fibres and their implantation upon the anterior, subcapsular epithelium.” But vision may fail and yet