SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 205 My recent cases show a moderate but positive improvement since I have adopted the antiseptic method, my mortality under this mode of treatment having been just 20 per cent, as compared with a death-rate of 29.3 per cent, previously. This gain of less than ten per cent, of the whole number will no doubt seem absurdly small to those enthusiastic operators who are in the habit of declaring that the statistics and ex- perience of pre-antiseptic days are of no value to the modern surgeon, but it is the best that I can offer; indeed, as I have said elsewhere, the advantages derived from antiseptic surgery seem to me to lie not so much in lessened mortality as in a shortened period of convalescence, diminished violence of traumatic fever and infrequency of secondary fever, increased comfort on the part of the patient, and material relief from anxiety and sparing of labor on the part of the surgeon. Special Amputations. Amputation at the Shoulder.—While the hemorrhage during this operation can usually be safely controlled by pressure on the subclavian artery with a wrapped key, as directed in Yol. I., page 650, and by having an assistant grasp the axillary artery before it is divided, yet these measures sometimes fail, when profuse bleeding may occur. The conformation of the clavicle is occasionally such as to cause the subclavian to be so deeply placed that it cannot be satisfactorily com- pressed over the first rib, and unless the vessel is precisely located in the wound and very firmly held, pressure here may fail also; hence in several cases I have with advantage resorted to preliminary ligation of the axillary, making a superficial transverse incision connecting the lateral branches of the oval of Larrey’s amputation, and then passing a ligature around the vessel with an aneurismal needle and tying it high up, taking care, in completing the operation after disarticulation, to divide the axillary tissues below the point at which the artery is secured. Another plan, which is perhaps still more satisfactory, is that recommended by Professor Wyeth, of New York, which consists in passing two strong steel mattress-needles or skewers, one on either side of the neck of the scapula, entering one in front and the other be- hind the acromion and bringing them out at the roots of the axillary folds, and then applying an Esmarch’s tube tightly above them. By this plan the circulation is completely controlled, and the patient need not lose a drop of arterial blood until the limb has been separated; the principal vessels are secured before the constricting band is removed, and the smaller ones are afterward rapidly caught with haemostatic forceps. I have adopted this procedure myself in one case with entire satisfaction, and have also seen it successfully employed by Professor Brinton. Amputation Above the Shoulder.—The most important sugges- tion in regard to this grave operation which has been made, since the publication of the Article on Amputations in Vol. I., is that of Berger, who strongly advises the preliminary division between double ligatures of both subclavian artery and vein, access to these vessels being facili- tated by a resection of the clavicle. The arm and scapula are then