482 INJURIES OF JOINTS. Thumb.—Great difficulty is often experienced in reducing dislocations of the proximal phalanx. An important step in the procedure is rota- tion in both directions, in order to clear the bone from the two heads of the short flexors. Subcutaneous section of the glenoid ligament, or open dissection, should always be resorted to if necessary. Guermon- prez makes prolonged traction followed by rotation. Palmer advises the making of a small buttonhole in the palmar surface, and the intro- duction of a lever to pry the head into position. I am disposed to think highly of this expedient. Hip.—Recent autopsies seem to show that in many cases the pyri- formis, obturator interims, and gemelli muscles are torn in dislocation of the hip. The acetabulum is commonly fractured at its margin, and fragments of the head of the femur are often broken off. Tliorndyke reports a case of backward dislocation reduced after eleven months by manipulation alone. A case of compound dislocation in a girl of 8 years is reported at the Boston Children’s Hospital. Infection and sup- puration were not avoided, but recovery finally was secured with bony anchylosis. Parkes reduced two cases of ancient dislocation of the hip by cutting the muscles very widely and using manipulation. Chiene, Nelaton, Volkmann, Quenu, Severeano, Sydney Jones, Paci, Nico- ladoni, Marguary, Vecelli (twice), Villeneuve, Hughes, Gerster, Harris, and Robson also report such cases. Ivinn has collected reports of 19 cases of arthrotoiny of the hip for old dislocation, with 3 deaths. Since 1890 the operation has received much attention. Nelaton and the early operators favored an incision over the displaced head of the femur, that is, posterior to the trochanter in dorsal dislocations. While this readily uncovers the head itself, it renders it difficult to get access to the acetabulum and ligaments. There is still a muscular and ligamentous resistance which prevents reduction, and which requires free sub-periosteal section for its removal. A long, free, anterior inci- sion will usually lead more directly to the acetabulum. This must be carried along the great trochanter far enough to allow free dissection from it of all the shortened and resisting muscles and their tendons. The acetabulum and capsule are, after fourteen days, liable to be filled with new deposit. Volkmann has shown by experiments on dogs, that, up to twelve days, this is soft granulation tissue easily pressed or wiped out by the returning head. After this time it may be found firm. An essential part of the operation consists in clearing out the acetabulum with a sharp spoon, prior to reducing the bone. Excellent functional results follow this operation when technically well done and not complicated by septic accidents. The very important operation of Lorenz and Hoffa for congenital dis- location of the hip marks an era in the treatment of that deformity. It is appropriately discussed in tjie section on orthopeedic surgery. Knee.—Considerable interest has been shown of late in dislocations of the semilunar cartilages, cases having been reported by Craft, Ailing- ham, Davies-Colley, and Annandale. Annandale operates by a circular incision, exposing the joint in front and laterally, and then drawing out and securing the cartilage by sutures. Congenital dislocations of the knee are reported by Joachimsthal, and