DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. 98 red stripes on the flexor side (septic lymphangeitis). The next day the septic infection, under proper treatment, may be over, or recovery may ensue with formation of pus at the place of injury, or with circum- scribed abscesses in the affected glands; or death may occur in conse- quence of septic poisoning. In other cases, the progressive inflamma- tion is more intense, and leads to the formation of vast phlegmonous processes, with high temperature. In a certain series of cases, espe- cially after extensive injuries, caused, for instance, by being run over, an acute, rapidly progressing putrid inflammation sets in, with forma- tion of gas, and usually ends fatally within forty-eight hours. In other cases, again, the dependence of gangrene upon the wound, as in the former cases, may be excluded, and nevertheless gangrene and putrefaction, with formation of gas, occur quickly, much in the same manner as is sometimes observed after snake-bite. In this group be- long those cases described byPirogoff as acute purulent oedema, and by Maisonneuve as gangrene foudroyante. The other symptoms referable to the internal organs are caused by the general septic infection. Usually the spleen and very often the liver are distinctly enlarged, and rarely we find jaundice, which is of lisema- togenous nature, caused by destruction of the red blood-corpuscles by the micro-organisms or their products. Gastro-enteritic symptoms are nearly constant; in severe cases the patient has diarrhoea, with stools of sometimes feculent, sometimes mucous, watery, or even hemorrhagic or diphtheritic quality. The urine contains albumin. Sometimes diffuse pleurisy, or inflammation of the pericardium or endocardium, brings about further complications. The skin quite frequently shows exan- thematous eruptions, in the shape of small blisters or pustules, or resembling urticaria, measles, or scarlatina. Besides, it may be men- tioned that sometimes large vessels are eroded by purulent abscesses, thus occasionally leading to fatal hemorrhage. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of a well-developed septicaemia, with the characteristic symptoms described above, cannot present any difficulties; but in some cases it may be very hard to recognize with certainty, in the very beginning of the disease, the outbreak of the septic general in- fection. This may be so especially in the cases of so-called cryptogenetic septicaemia, that is, when the point of entrance of the poison cannot be found. The two points upon which we must chiefly rely are the sud- den and continuously high fever, and the quality of the pulse, which is small and very frequent. Prognosis.—The prognosis of septicaemia is in well-developed cases mostly fatal; it grows relatively better, as we can get at and remove the primary focus of infection by adequate treatment. After the source of infection is disposed of, the resorption of the bacterial toxic products comes to an end, and therefore, also, the putrid intoxication. Of course, the prognosis will be influenced considerably by the physical condition and power of resistance of the patient. Then we must not forget that very often the prognosis as to the local condition is not iden- tical with the general prognosis. Extensive gangrene, for instance, may develop irresistibly while the general intoxication does not increase, so that the patient may have time to overcome the infection;