21 ELECTRICITY IX PHAGOCYTOSIS. them during their transformation, and then only by means of the special refrangibility of the edge of the protoplasmic layer thus formed on the lower surface of the cover-glass. The floating cells are still round, but all (at the surface of the drop) have one or two needle-shaped prolongations. They thus show that every resisting surface coming in contact with the leucocyte produces a reaction on its part, manifested by throwing out and extension of the pseudopodia; the globule reacts by placing itself in contact with the excitant by the largest possible surface. This tactile sensibility explains the penetration of leucocytes .into porous bodies, such as elder pith, and it is also this peculiarity that accounts for the diversity of the shapes of the leucocytes contained in a drop of lymph examined under the microscope. Suspended under a cover-glass, these shapes vary, in fact, according as the cell is in con- tact with the glass or with the surface of the drop, where superficial tension acts as the resisting surface, or on the borders of the drop where the two causes act at the same time. The same authors, Verworn and Dineur, have also studied the chemio- tactic powers of the leucocytes, and have established a fact of the greatest interest in pathology, that the chemical sensibility of the leuco- cytes is excited by the products of bacteria (the staphylococcus pyogenes albus, bacillus cholerae gallinarum, bacillus typhi, bacillus anthracis), the ptomaine of the first showing the most active attraction. The prod- ucts of disintegration of the injured cells possessed the same property, as well as certain products of oxidation of the albuminoids, like leucin. These experiments upon chemiotaxis were undertaken by Gabrit- chewsky,1 who applied the method of Massart and Bordet to a long series of substances, which he divided into, first, substances possessed of negative chemiotaxis that repelled the white corpuscles (concentrated solutions of the salts of sodium and of potassium, lactic acid from one- tenth per cent, to ten per cent., etc.); second, substances of indifferent chemiotactic power (distilled water, medium and weak solutions of the salts of sodium, one-tenth per cent, to one per cent., antipyrin one per cent., peptone one per cent.); and third, substances of positive chemio- tactic power (papayotin in one-per-cent, solution, and different pto- maines). The method employed was that of Pfeffer, of placing in the peritoneal cavity, or under the skin in the cellular tissue of the animal, capillary tubes of glass, closed at one end and previously filled with the solution to be used for study. As a result, the conclusion may be drawn, that in a cold-blooded animal leucocytes are sensitive to the chemical composition of the medium in which they live, and that the modifica- tions of this medium are of a nature to influence the direction of their movements. Dineur2 has proposed to find out whether the leucocytes are equally en- dowed with chemiotactic powers, choosing for his source of electricit}r a single Daniell cell. He employs capillary tubes of glass, placed much as in the experiments of Massart and Bordet, upon an ebonite plate, measuring one centimetre by four. He fixes, by means of a drop of sealing wax, three glass capillary tubes of the same apparent diameter, placed so that their extremities extend about two centimetres beyond the edge of the ebonite plate. These ends should be broken square across, and so placed as to converge toward each other. They are 1 Ann. de l’lnst. Past., 1890. 2 Loc. cit.