HOSPITALS FOK INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 1059 allowance is made, in directing the disinfection of all kinds of infectious material, by subjecting it to a boiling temperature for half an hour, in either water or steam. Exposure for ten minutes to steam under pressure, to raise the temperature to 221° F., will accomplish the object. The fact that the spores of certain bacilli found in the soil resist a con- siderably higher temperature than this has led to undue exactions in the use of heat. Esmarch has shown that dry heat is less effective than moist heat, and that superheated steam is less so than streaming steam at 212° F. Exposure to moist heat at twenty pounds pres- sure—temperature about 230° F.—destroys the most resistant spores in twenty minutes. A temperature of 240° F. is effective almost imme- diately. The simplest way of disinfecting articles of clothing and other articles not injured thereby, is to immerse them in boiling water. Cholera germs are killed at 126.6° F., and typhoid germs at 13S.8*3 F. by exposure for four and ten minutes respectively. Infectious excreta of these diseases may be disinfected by adding three or four times their amount of boiling water. Sulphate of iron or chloride of zinc, in solu- tion herewith, will deodorize and disinfect at the same time. This is a good rule for domestic and hospital use. The chemical disinfectant that is of practical value, and prompt in its action, is good chlorinated lime, which should contain at least twenty-five per cent, of available chlorine. A solution in the proportion of six ounces to one gallon of pure water being made, one quart of it may be used for the disinfec- tion of each discharge in typhoid fever, cholera, vomited matter, etc. Then the contents of the vessel being well mixed, it should stand for at least one hour before they are thrown out. Infected sputum should be discharged into a cup half full of the solution. The great activity in hospital work in all the civilized world is but meagrely indicated in these few examples available for selection to illustrate recent progress. The like activity in the profession of nurs- ing has been alluded to in the beginning of this article. It is a signifi- cant sign of the times that whereas twenty years ago the training of nurses was doubtfully regarded as likely to create a kind of “ nurses that would know too much,” there is now a distinct movement to ex- tend the period of training in response to the demand that “ they should know more.” It has come to pass that, during the past decade, a nursing-reform has also been established in hospitals for the insane. These hospitals are now being built as detached pavilions, with better classification and domestic effects than in the old palatial style of con- struction. The work of the hospitals and asylums of the world was never in a more promising condition than it is to-day.