844 DISEASES OF THE BllEAST. tions. If the tumor is adherent, the muscle itself should be removed. A knife or instrument that has come in contact with the open surface of the diseased tissue must be laid aside. The axilla should be opened by an incision along the border of the pectoralis major, and far enough down the arm, along the edge of the biceps, to expose fully the axillary contents. The scar from this cut in- terferes less with the movements of the arm than that from a cut made directly over the axillary depression, especially if in closing the wound the skin is stitched to the apex of the axillary space. While the axilla is being dissected the breast wound should be covered with dry steril- ized gauze, which keeps the parts warm and checks oozing. The excised breast may now be examined by the pathologist, either by making immediate frozen sections or by the method of Stiles, to de- termine whether the disease has been thoroughly removed. The prin- ciple of Stiles’s method is as follows:— 1. Mark the position of the breast by a slight incision extending both on the breast and on the skin to be left remaining. 2. Wash the mamma in water until all the blood is removed from its surface, —an important preliminary step, since the nitric acid coagulates and blackens the blood, and thereby obscures the appearances which the method brings out. 3. Submerge in a five-per-cent, aqueous solution of nitric acid. 4. Wash in running water to remove the acid. 5. Place in undiluted methylated spirit. The rationale of this treatment is that the nitric acid renders all the tissues opaque white, except the fat, through coagulation of their albuminous constit- uents. By subsequently washing in water, the connective tissue becomes trans- lucent, homogeneous, and somewhat gelatinous. Its consistence in bulk is firm, tough, and india-rubber like. The parenchyma^ on the other hand, remains more or less dull, grayish-white, and opaque, due to coagulation of the more highly albuminous epithelial cells. The fat is unaltered. Cancerous tissue behaves in the same way as the parenchyma, and is rendered even denser and more opaque. In very cellular cancers the tissue resembles boiled white of egg, though of a grayish color. The characteristic arrangement of the parenchyma is generally sufficient to distinguish it from the cancerous tissue. If the examination of the frozen section, or if the tumor thus treated, shows any foci of disease remaining, the suspected parts must be further excised. The following method of procedure is rapid and effectual in clearing out the axilla. The dissection should be made with a sharp knife along the axillary border of the pectoralis major, as far as its insertion. All bleeding should he checked, and sponging should be made with a constantly renewed clean surface of dry gauze. The loose tissues of the axilla are thus kept free from the usual diffused staining by which all anatomical relations are blurred. Careful attention to this detail will enable the operator to work in a field in which the various structures are sharply defined. Leaving the pectoral border, the fascia which makes the axillary depression should first he incised. This lies directly under the skin, and once freely cut allows the deep structures to be brought immedi- ately and easily into view. The axillary vein should next be exposed and its tributaries tied, with the corresponding branches of the axillary ar- tery. An assistant lifting the elbow upward (and slightly forward if necessary), a good view can he had of the apex of the axilla as far as