948 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1 Op. cit., p. 43. beak is hollow and can be removed entire, and has a larger aperture in which is inserted a pane of rock crystal for the transmission of the light, permitting, therefore, better illumination. In case the little lamp should be broken, or should be rendered useless by the burning out of the carbon filament, it can be easily replaced by removing the beak or hood, and simply lifting it out of two small sockets into which Fig. 1756. Leiter's Cystoscope. its terminals fit. Both conductors go within the tube or shaft of the instrument, and are connected with the little sockets for the lamp, and so complete the circuit. (Fig. 1756.) Fenwick 1 improved upon Leiter's instrument by having the hood made with several apertures on the side opposite the window, the object being to permit free contact of the fluid in the bladder with the lamp, and so to keep the hood cool. He also placed upon the ocular end a ring or rotary collar bearing the binding screws for the battery wires, and im- proved upon the key for opening and closing the circuit. These are the typical cystoscopes in use at the present day. The aperture for the light and the refracting prism spoken of are usually placed on the side of the concavity of the bend. Some instruments are made in which they are upon the convex side. These latter are intended for use in cases of enlarged prostate. Certain modifications of detail of the cystoscope have been made at various times, but the only one that will be alluded to here is that of Brenner. In this instrument there is, in addition to the main or tele- scopic tube, a small tube passing along the outside of the shaft of the instrument. The purpose of this tube is to permit renewal of the fluid in the bladder during examination, and also to make possible catheter- ization of the ureters. No great success, however, has thus far attended efforts in this last-named direction, as far as the male bladder is con- cerned. Employment of the Cystoscope.—When it is intended to make a cystoscopic examination, the bladder should contain from four to six ounces of urine, and, unless this be clear, a transparent fluid, such as boric-acid solution, should be injected, after withdrawing the urine and washing out the bladder. The urethra must be free from stricture, or at any rate of such calibre as will not preclude the possibility of pass- ing the cystoscope, the size of which is 22 F. The patient should be recumbent, or even in the lithotomy position. Before introducing the instrument the current should be turned on and the lamp tested. The question may arise whether it be necessary to employ anaesthesia, either local or general. As to the latter, it need rarely be resorted to,