TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. 735 Fig. 1708. deep cavity. A needle-like electrode passed successively over the vari- ous structures in the bottom of the wound, while a wet sponge elec- trode is applied to the cheek, will identify the nerve by causing twitch- ing of the facial muscles. The current should be weak, since a strong current will, according to Keen,1 produce muscular reaction even when the electrode is not in contact with the nerve, because the moisture in the wound will conduct the current to all the exposed tissues. Baum’s method of reaching the nerve, which is here described, is preferable to that by an incision in front of the auricle, as advocated by Hueter. Neurectomy will stop the spasm, but causes a disfiguring palsy. Facial neurotomy with immediate nerve-suture occurs to me as a pos- sible method of treatment. The section would relieve the spasm, and muscular power would probably return as regeneration of the sutured nerve took place. Trigeminal Neuralgia. The neuralgia which af- fects the fifth cranial nerve often demands surgical treat- ment. The disease is some- times called “facial” neural- gia, but this is a confusing designation, since it may lead to the supposition that it affects the seventh cranial, or facial, nerve, which is a motor nerve and the seat of the spasmodic motor affec- tion just described as tic con- vulsif. Tic douloureux, tri- facial neuralgia, and epilep- tiform neuralgia of the fifth nerve are better descriptive names for the malady now under consideration. The name epileptiform neuralgia is applicable because of the irregularly occurring explosions or convulsions of agonizing pain in the areas of distribution of one or more of the three divisions of the nerve. The motor nerves of the face, however, may be secondarily affected, causing muscular contortion or local paralysis; but these symptoms are incidental and not necessarily present. The superior and inferior maxillary divisions are more apt to be the seat of this violent neuralgia than the supra-orbital division, which is the frequent location of the simple neuralgias associated with malaria and migraine. 1 Trans. American Surgical Association, 1886, p. 285. Nerve Changes in Trigeminal Neuralgia. (Rose.)