INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. fora year or more. The condition is usually ushered in with a sense of weariness and of weight in the extremities, accompanied by more or less pain. Fibrillary muscular contractions, diminished precision, par- ticularly of the more delicate movements, and impaired muscular power follow. Cardiac palpitation, difficulty of speech, loss of memory, and gradual depreciation of the intellect supervene in rapid succession. The cachectic condition is made manifest by intense pallor of the skin, accom- panied by a pseudo-oedema affecting chiefly the face and hands. The skin is hard and dry. The function of the sweat glands may be en- tirely lost. The integument and superficial fascia become doughy, but there is no pitting on pressure as in true oedema. Myxoedema may likewise affect the palpebral and oral mucous membranes. The entire facial expression is changed as the disease progresses, until in extreme cases the physiognomy of idiocy is established. Epilepsy is occasion- ally developed, as is a condition of tetany which may speedily cause death. When the disease occurs in the young, there is a marked arrest of physical growth. Myxoedema operativa, like its analogue idiopathic myxoedema, first described by Sir William Gull in 1873, runs a slow but progressive course. It may last from six to twenty years, and usually ends in death from some intercurrent affection. According to Kocher there is never any amelioration of the symptoms, when the disease is once es- tablished, but on the other hand Reverdin and Julliard have seen im- provement and almost complete recovery ensue after an unquestioned cachexia had existed for many months. According to the investiga- tion of 109 cases by the Myxoedema Committee of the Clinical Society of London, improvement occurs in about fifty per cent. One condition is common to all cases, namely, some destructive change of the thyroid gland, commonly consisting in the substitution of a delicate fibrillar tis- sue for its normal granular structure. Observation of the disastrous results of total thyroidectomy and the investigation of idiopathic myxoedema have thus established the impor- tance to health and growth of the thyroid gland. Physiological inves- tigations by Schiff and von Eiselsberg, Wagner, Zesas, and Horsley, have definitively elevated the gland to a position of almost vital impor- tance. What its precise function is, has not yet been determined. It would be out of place here to consider the many theories advanced. It is probable, however, that the gland prevents the accumulation of mucin in the system, not by a process of elimination, but by converting it into a harmless and probably useful substance. Enough has been estab- lished to make total thyroidectomy an operation to be performed only for malignant disease. Fortunately the therapy of myxcederaa is far from hopeless. By successfully grafting portions of the excised thy- roid gland into the peritoneum, von Eiselsberg saved two animals from myxoedema. Horsley and Collins, with moderate success, have trans- planted sheeps’ thyroid into human subjects. In 1891 G. R. Murray suggested the use of the thyroid extract by hypodermic injection. Many methods of administering the gland have since been tried by nu- merous writers, with almost marvellous results. The improvement is constant whatever the method of administration adopted, and speedily follows the beginning of the treatment. The best, because the most con- venient, method is by the administration of a dry extract of the gland.