695 OPHTHALMOSCOPIC DISEASES. all the tissues of the eye (panophthalmitis). It is usually caused by infection following traumatism, or by metastasis, especially occurring in children who have had meningitis. (This form leads to shrinking of the globe and never to panophthalmitis.) Sympathetic inflamma- tion is not apt to follow the injuries which lead to this form of cho- roiditis, which may also be caused by infection from pyaemia, puerperal fever, erysipelas, suppurative endocarditis, and injuries about the face. Panophthalmitis is treated like any form of abscess, but it is safer not to enucleate or eviscerate the globe until all inflammation has subsided. Tuberculous choroiditis exists rarely, and only in connection with general tuberculosis. It may occur in two forms in the same eye—-as miliary tubercle and as larger masses. Hemorrhage in the choroid is less frequent than hemorrhage in the retina, from which it may be distinguished by the different shape of the effused patch, which is more or less round in area, and lies under the retinal vessels. Ossification occasionally occurs in old and shrunken eyes, and by pressure may excite inflammation and render enucleation necessary. Detachment of the choroid is very rare, and is caused by traumatism, serous effusion, and tumors. Eetinitis.—The circulation in the retina does not give any positive knowledge of the condition of the circulation in the brain or heart, and it is not always easy to diagnose anaemia or hyperaemia. The relative size of the arteries and veins may give some idea of their true condi- tion, for in hyperaemia and inflammation the calibre, tortuosity, and length of the veins are generally increased while the arteries may not be changed. Anaemia of the retina is caused by hemorrhage, spasm of the vessels, the stage of collapse in cholera, and toxic doses of quinine, and most commonly follows atrophic changes in the optic nerve. Hem- orrhages from the retinal vessels are common, and upon their situation depends their shape, those of the nerve layer being flame-shaped or linear, while those which are deeper are round and more solid. The subjective symptoms are interference with vision (usually sudden), scotomata, and metamorphopsia. Eecent hemorrhages in the retina give objects a red appearance. The effused blood may be entirely absorbed and leave no bad results, or scotomata due to degenerative spots may remain. In old persons these hemorrhages, when numerous, may cause the so-called hemorrhagic glaucoma, and such cases should receive careful supervision for many months. Eetinal hemorrhages may follow traumatism, or altered conditions of the blood and blood- vessels, and these changes are produced by pyaemia, septicaemia, ulcer- ative endocarditis, diseases of the liver, spleen, or kidneys, atheroma of blood-vessels, anaemia, haemophilia, purpura, scurvy, diabetes, gout, malaria, disturbances of the circulation due to heart diseases, suffoca- tion, compression of the carotid artery, menstrual disorders, and sudden reduction of tension following operations for cataract and glaucoma. Eetinitis is usually associated with choroiditis and cyclitis, but at times exists as a primary inflammation in diseases in which there is an altered condition of the blood and vessels, such as septi- caemia, syphilis, albuminuria, diabetes, anaemia, and oxaluria. With