65G DISEASES OF THE SPINE. Since removal of the sac in severe cases necessitates removal of a portion of the cord, operative cases to be hopeful must be those in which the bony opening is small, and those in which there are but few cord elements. When the integumentary covering is thin and ulcerated it should be removed, and a flap of healthy skin from the loin should be turned inward to give a solid covering to the opening. This flap may be cut from good tissue and be turned upon its base as in ordinary plastic work. Recognizable cord structures and meninges may be replaced in the spinal canal, and the tissues sutured in separate layers and levels, so that the lines of union shall not be superimposed. If the cauda equina, or other distinct nerve filaments, are found run- ning across the sac after it is opened, they should be carefully dissected out (the incision running around the vasculo-medullary area) and should be replaced in the spinal canal. If the nerves run into the wall of the sac, this should be dissected free and replaced in the canal. In one of my cases the sac was cut away. The child did well for five days, when the temperature suddenly rose to 105° F., and he died in convulsions. In a recent case in which I excised the sac, a tumor presented itself opposite the sacrum, and so much to the left of the median line that it appeared to be in the upper part of the buttock. This peculiarity of position was found on operation to have been due to the fact that the cleft was in the left laminal region, between the second and third seg- ments, while the spinous processes were perfect; this carried the tumor decidedly out of its usual central position, and it protruded in the upper part of the left buttock. The tumor was covered with perfectly nor- mal skin and with a thick layer of adipose tissue, the boy being over a year old. The neck of the sac was narrow, and a to-and-fro running stitch of catgut was put in before the sac was cut away. The stump was then sewn with an overhand stitch, such as is used in closing a uterine pedicle; this completely closed the opening. Recovery was un- eventful. There was no leakage. There had been no paralysis, and no convulsions. At birth the tumor was very small, but enlarged when- ever the child cried, and was steadily increasing in size. Osteoplastic Operations.—The greatest advance in operative work is found in osteoplastic operations, in which attempt is made, by raising a bony flap around the margins of the opening, to secure an osseous closure. Parings can be made and the flaps united so as to form a solid bridge across the gap. In the sacral or lumbar re- gions a half-thickness of the innominate may be split off and turned into the gap, periosteum inward, without separating it from its liga- mentous and muscular attachments, thus insuring its life. The trans- plantation of periosteum or of bone from other animals has been prac- tised both experimentally and in the human subject by Jaksch, Barth, and others, the former transplanting bone from the head of a gosling with success. It is better to select a young animal rather than a fowl for the graft. A trephined button of bone from an animal has also been used, but the experiments of Wolff and others 1 show that while detached pieces of bone almost invariably die by transplantation, yet if they have the support of the muscles and fascial tissue they will live. A flap taken from the body of a vertebra, or portions of the articular process, attached to the soft parts, may be employed. When bone chips 1 German Surgical Congress, 1893; American Med.-Surgical Bulletin, June, 1893.