245 LIPOMA. The tongue is one of the rarer situations for these growths, but the diagnosis is not usually difficult, for the tumors, of soft consistency, lie just under the mucous membrane at the side of the tongue and show their yellow color through it (Kirchoff, Rydygier). Still rarer is the lipoma of the larynx, which has been seen only four times clinically, and twice after death, and which may grow to considerable size (a bantam’s egg) without jeopardizing life, and is usually pedunculated (McBride). Rather more common, but equally interesting, are the lipomata of the hand and fingers, of which some fifty cases are on record. They are usually found in the palm—there being only two cases on record of a lipoma of the dorsum, and something over a dozen of lipomata of the fingers (Poulet, Steinheil). The diagnosis is quite difficult, the tumor being usually taken for a compound ganglion or tubercular tenosyno- vitis; but there should be no difficulty in this differentiation, for the Fig. 1597. Subcutaneous Fibrolipoma of Finger. Woman, fifty-five years of age. Tumor removed from same situation thirty years ago after seven years’ growth. Present tumor of inaDy years’ duration. Motions of finger normal. (From a photograph.) latter affection usually extends above the annular ligament, whereas the lipoma, developing between the skin and palmar fascia, is unable to break through the strong connections between the ligament and the latter. Very rarely a lipoma of the palm extends down upon the fin- gers, for here too the fascial connections interpose a barrier, although it is not quite so complete. In some cases the fatty tumors tend to grow between the metacarpal bones toward the back of the hand, form- ing prominences there, a peculiarity which would at once distinguish ; these growths from the swellings of tubercular tenosynovitis. A con- siderable number of these lipomata are congenital, about ten per cent. Men seem to be more liable than women, in the proportion of twenty- three to fourteen, and the right hand is three and a half times more commonly affected than the left. Lipoma of the sole of the foot is even rarer, and I know of only four cases on record (Gay, Weil, Lobker). The lesson of the case reported