615 ACTINOMYCOSIS OF THE BRAIN. left by removal of the cyst was as large as a lien's egg, and the cavity of the lateral ventricle was well exposed. The patient recovered en- tirely. This is the only case of operation reported in America. Of the seven patients operated on three have recovered. The symptoms of hydatid cyst are usually of an intermittent character. The blindness is apt to develop quite suddenly; and if at first unilateral, is said always to he on’ the same side as the cyst. The symptoms of all these various kinds of cyst, parasitic or other- wise, will as a rule he the same as those of tumor, though they are apt to be less pronounced, perhaps by reason of the fact that the cyst, being soft, does not exert so much pressure as a solid growth. In other respects the diagnosis between cystic tumors and solid tumors cannot, as a rule, be made prior to operation, except in the cases, exces- sively rare in this country and in Great Britain, of hydatid cyst. The treatment as a rule is by an exploratory operation and removal. If possible the cyst wall should always be extracted. If this is not pos- sible the cyst should be drained. Actinomycosis of the Brain. As far as I know, there are only three cases of primary actinomy- cosis of the brain reported. The first one is recorded by Bollinger.1 The patient was twenty-six years of age, and the symptoms were such that a diagnosis of tumor of the brain was made. The parasite formed a tumor in the third ventricle, and all the ventricles were considerably dilated. There was no tendency to suppuration of the tissues, as is so commonly found in cases of actinomycosis elsewhere. The presump- tion is that the parasite entered the body through the skin or mucous membrane without producing the disease at the entrance point, and reached the brain by embolism. The second case is reported by Gamgee.2 The man was 65 years old, and had suffered for several years with an abscess of obscure origin in the abdominal wall. When he first came under Dr. Gamgee’s care he had an effusion in the left side of the chest, paralysis of the right arm and leg, with slight dilatation of the right pupil, and convulsions of the right arm; death soon followed. At the post-mortem examination, besides pus in the left pleural cavity, there was a large abscess of the liver, with many masses of the ray fungus. Three abscesses in the brain also contained the fungus. Keller3 has recorded, however, the first, and I believe up to this time the only case, in which actinomycosis of the brain has been diagnosti- cated during life and operated on. The patient was a married woman, 40 years old, who had suffered from a series of abscesses following pleurisy. Suspecting that they might be of actinomycotic origin, he examined the tissues by the microscope and found the ray fungus. Two years subsequently she was admitted to the hospital, with gradually increas- ing weakness of the left arm, and from the prior invasion it was deemed likely that there was a secondary growth of the fungus in the brain. 1 Munch, med. Wochensch., 1887, No. 41. 2 Brit. Med. Journal, 1889, vol. i., p. 1172. 3 Ibid., 1890, vol. i., p. 709.