761 CYSTS OF THE NECK. cles, fasciae, and integument are welded together in a mass of leathery firmness. Softening occurs at one or more places, and from the result- ing ulcers or sinuses issues a characteristic fetid discharge. In carci- noma of the breast the implication of the cervical lymphatics may pre- cede that of the axillary. Cysts of the Neck. Within solid growths of the neck of epithelial, connective-tissue, or glandular origin, cysts often develop. Aside from those which are secondary, there are many tumors in which from the very beginning the characteristics of a primary cyst are present, that is, a well- defined investing membrane lined with one or more layers of cells, and more or less fluid contents. Thanks to the labors of Hawkins, Voille- mier, Roser, Schede, Madelung, Wagner, Lannelongue, and others, a division of cervical cysts according to their etiological development is now feasible. They may be divided into: (1) Cystic enlargements of bursae, or hygromata. (2) Branchial cysts. (3) Lymphatic. (4) Sanguineous. (5) Hydatid. Hygroma.—In the mid-line of the neck, in relation with the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, are a number of true bursae to facilitate the movements of the larynx and the play of the muscles above. These are the bursa subhyoidea, the bursa prethyroidea, and the bursa supra- hyoidea. The bursa subhyoidea (Boyer), present in all'subjects and larger in men than in women, is situated beneath the hyoid bone and the muscles attached to it from below, and in front of the thyro-hyoid membrane. The bursa prethyroidea, often absent, and present as a well-developed bursa only in old male subjects, is found between the deep fascia and the incisure of the thyroid cartilage. Corsen 1 found it present six times in twenty-five subjects. In five children examined it was altogether absent. The bursa suprahyoidea (Verneuil) lies between the upper surface of the hyoid bone and the insertion of the genio-hyoid muscles. This bursa is not often found, and when present is prone to hygromatous change (Gruber). Enlargement of these bursae, appearing in frequency according to their order given, manifests itself by a median swelling rarely exceeding a walnut in size, though Gruber describes one of the suprahyoid bursa as large as an orange. Globular in shape, often densely filled, and always attached to and moving with the underlying structures, they present a uniform surface, and when not inflamed cause no distress. Spontaneous rupture or imperfect removal gives vent to the bursal contents, which are clear, of yellowish tint, and very viscid. A tubercular character has not yet been recognized for the cervical hygromata. While the bursal sac remains, a cure is never effected. There remains a long fistulous track, which can be felt as a firm cord underneath the integument and from which mucoid discharge continues indefinitely. For the relief of cervical hygromata a simple incision rarely does more than establish the obnoxious condition just described. In exceptional 1 Corsen : De la Burse prethyroide (These), 1877. (Quoted by Koenig.)