172 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. but little to our therapeutics. Observation had anticipated what sci- ence has lately taught. The freer use and more careful application of antiseptics in the neighborhood of the living tissue has been somewhat advanced. But the method of employing bromine in hospital gangrene, and nitric acid in facial carbuncle, cannot lie improved by any knowl- edge we now possess of the etiology of these diseases. Amputation in Gangrene.—The rule of waiting for the formation of the red line, which the long and universal experience of surgeons had fully justified until within a few years, has undergone much mod- ification. A better recognition of the pathological conditions present has determined marked exceptions to the former rule. These excep- tions will be stated below. Hospital Gangrene.—When we regard the peculiar method of in- vasion by the microbes, it would seem as if the cause of hospital gan- grene must be specific. Thus far, however, no special form has been discovered, the bacillus of Rosenbach and the cocci of suppuration be- ing those that are found. Happily the disease is one that will seldom be seen again. The antiseptic mode of treating wounds will bar the development of hospital gangrene. Like scurvy, its horrors will be his- torical. The antiseptic treatment of this form of gangrene had already been learned, and no improvement in its therapeutics has been added since the discovery of its cause. Senile Gangrene.—The course of this disease is, as has been stated above, usually slow. But it has a tendency to the development of throm- bosis, the occurrence of which will suddenly change the whole aspect of the case. The gangrene may have been confined for weeks to the toe, but suddenly it travels in three days up to the knee. This can only be caused by thrombosis, resulting in complete obstruction of an artery. The question of amputation, as regards the proper time of its perform- vance in this special form of gangrene, has always puzzled surgeons. The red line has been waited for, but even when pretty well established the disease will extend beyond it, and thus destroy the hope of relief by amputation. There is difficulty and, perhaps, impossibility of diag- nosis as regards the exact point of occlusion in the artery, and the amputation may not be high enough. The operation is in itself a severe one, and the disease occurs in old age. There is to be considered also the depression arising from the disease while waiting for the formation of the line. Even if there be no recurrence of the gangrene, the life may still be lost. In view, however, of the diminished danger of amputation since the use of antiseptic measures, it is often better to perform the operation before the red line forms, especially if the course of the gangrene is more rapid than usual. The loss of a limb is of greater importance in early than in later life. Less risks to save a limb should be taken in the old than in the young. To be assured of get- ting above the obstruction in this form of gangrene, it will be wise to amputate above rather than below the knee.