DESTRUCTION OF BACTERIA BY AMOEBOID CELLS IN INFLAMMATION. 25 1 Ann. de l’lnst. Past., t. v. p. 673. The question as to whether these soluble products act directly upon the vessels or through the medium of the nerves is not yet settled, and further work is to be carried out by these authors to discover if possible what other substances, and in what degree, can produce the same effects. Destruction of Bacteria by Amoeboid Cells in Inflammation. Again, and in a very important measure supplementing the work of Metchnikoff, comes that of Armand Buffer1 on the destruction of bac- teria by the amoeboid cells in inflammation. In a memoir published in the British Medical Journal for May 24, 1890, upon the same subject, Ruffer was led to the following conclu- sions: First, the inflammatory phenomena following the introduction of the bacilli of symptomatic anthrax under the skin of the guinea-pig have a protective and useful character; second, the destruction of bac- teria at the point of inoculation is produced entirely by the amoeboid cells contained in the inflammatory exudation. He based these conclusions upon the effects seen in guinea-pigs, but he has also studied the action of the same virus (of symptomatic an- thrax) upon rabbits—animals that were considered refractory to this disease by Arloing, Cornevin and Thomas, Boux and Nocard, and many others. He has carried on his experiments with the bacillus Chauvoei (symptomatic anthrax), endeavoring to find the effect exerted upon it by the living fluids and cells of rabbits. He used for the pur- pose the first and second vaccines of Arloing (prepared by the desicca- tion of the muscles of animals dead of symptomatic anthrax), and a dose of the virus was always very carefully weighed before being placed under the skin of the rabbit. His first experience led him to believe that this organism did not grow in the rabbit, for having in- jected a very small quantity, five milligrammes, of the second vaccine under the skin of a rahbit, and having examined the point of inocula- tion twenty-four hours afterward, he was unable to find any bacilli; but upon very carefully staining sections made from the inflammatory tissue, he always found a few leucocytes surrounding the remains of the vaccinal powder, and a few of the typical bacilli englobed in these cells; if a larger quantity of the vaccine (five centigrammes) were used, the bacilli were extremely numerous at the point of inoculation. Larger doses produced in the animal typical symptomatic anthrax, and inevitably killed it after from forty-eight hours to three days, and under these circumstances a very large number of the bacilli could be found at the point of inoculation, englobed in the leucocytes and in process of degeneration. The degenerative changes in the bacteria were absolutely the same as those seen in the leucocytes of guinea-pigs, and these facts led Buffer to try if the living fluids of animals comparatively refractory to the bacillus Chauvoei possessed a bactericidal power over this organism; a question which had already been studied partially by Boger, who made the remarkable observation that the serum of guinea-pigs, which are not refractory to symptomatic anthrax, had a very great bacteri-