TUMORS. 222 a similar but solid epithelial growth on the skin of the forehead. These cases recall the experiments of Hunter, Kaufmann, Masse, Schwe- ninger, and others who artificially produced epithelial cysts resembling sebaceous cysts by transplanting or simply turning in fragments of skin in the subcutaneous tissues. (2.) The development of a tumor directly after an injury, usually a blow, and without surface lesion. The injury is usually a contusion, and presumably the formation of a hsematoma may be of etiological importance to the growth of the tumor. Although it is generally malignant and especially sarcomatous tumors which follow these in- juries, benign tumors have also been observed under such circum stances. Lipoma after a contusion has been recorded by Bellamy, in a man struck on the forearm by a cricket-ball; by Courtade, on the knee; by Leclerc, on the back of the neck; by Reboul, over the trochanter of the femur, and by Laurent, on the side and front of the chest. Van Arsdale has recorded a case in which an irregular ossification took place in the brachialis muscle, and perhaps also subperiosteally on the hu- merus, in consequence of repeated blows upon the arm; and although in this case we have to do with the ossification of a heematoma, or with an ossifying myositis, not a true tumor, the occurrence is worth noting in this connection. Midway between the benign and malignant should be enrolled Madelung’s case, reported by Grisson, of an enchon- droma which sprang from the head of the humerus in a seaman di- rectly after a severe injury, was removed with the head of the bone, and after another similar injury, three years later, reappeared, necessi- tating the removal of the entire extremity in order to extirpate the growth. On both occasions intense pain in the shoulder was felt at once on receipt of the injury, and this continued, although it was some months before any swelling was noticed. The slow growth, freedom from metastasis, and microscopic examination all declared against any sarcomatous element in these tumors. The bones seem to be the parts most likely to develop sarcoma after injury, and large numbers of such cases are on record; in fact, some such history is obtainable from the majority of cases of sarcoma of bones. In the soft parts these cases are not so common. Blanc, how- ever, reports an instance in a man forty years of age, who received a blow upon the forearm, but continued to work until increasing pain at- tracted bis attention to the part some days subsequently, when he found a hard, tender swelling of considerable dimensions. This was treated by a physician for some time without improvement, the tumor, however, at first not increasing in size. Finally the growth was extir- pated, and proved to be a fleshy mass with a soft centre like a broken- down haematoma, but on microscopic examination the solid parts were found to be sarcomatous. The growth returned eighteen months after- wards, and was again extirpated, but when last seen the man had symptoms of metastasis to the lungs. Neuhahn has reported similar instances, and has collected forty-one from various sources, three hav- ing been in naevi irritated by scratching or unsuitable surgical treat- ment, and one having followed a blister. Sarcoma of the breast has also been frequently observed to follow a blow. Lindner reports such a case, which was under his own observation from the first, the tumor appearing during the first few days after the injury, and being natu-