333 FIBROMATA—XANTHOMA—ANGEIOMA—LYMPHANGEIOMA. a mild current should be used, and the needle must not remain in con- tact with the parts too long, for fear of aggravating the conditions. Brocq also speaks well of this method in cases of hypertrophied cica- trix. Fibromata. • These are sometimes congenital. When fibromata exhibit a tendency to hang in soft, loose folds, due to hypertrophy and excessive develop- ment of the cutaneous and subcutaneous structures, they are designated fibromata pendula, which is a more appropriate term than dermatolysis. Xanthoma. This disease is not a common one. The term xanthoma multiplex has been given to that form of the malady in which multiple xantho- matous lesions are generally distributed.1 When the lesions occur in striae, they are designated by the name of xanthoma lineare vet stria- tum. Usually the affection does not cause much inconvenience, though itching and burning sensations are at times complained of by the patient. Hallopeau2 regards the xanthomatous growths as benign neoplasms of embryonic origin, and shares the view of Touton, that they owe their origin to the generative embryonic fat-cells which persist in the tissues and proliferate. Hallopeau is of opinion that the jaundice which frequently is present in this disease may be due to the presence of these cells in the biliary passages, and thinks it not improbable that the glycosuria which exists in those exceedingly rare cases known as xanthoma diabeticorum, may be due to these cells being located in the pancreas. Treatment.—Recently electrolysis has been employed in the removal of the lesions; this method is preferable to the use of the knife. Angeioma. Sodium ethylate, applied by means of a glass rod, is regarded by some as a very good remedy in cases of angeioma. LYMPHANGEIOMA. Synonyms: Lymphangiectasis; Lupus lymphaticus; Lymphan- geioma c aver no sum; Pachydermia lymphorrhagica. Prognosis.—It would appear from the scant literature on the subject that this affection does not tend to disappear spontaneously, and that the growth has reappeared even after it had been removed with the knife. 1 See reports of two cases of extensive xanthoma multiplex; the one by George Thomas Jackson, Journal of Cutaneous and Geuito-Urinary Diseases, 1890, vol. viii., p. 241; the other by E. J. Stout, ibid., June, 1894. 2 Annales de Derm, et de Syph., 1893, tome iv., p. 935.