520 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. knee for tuberculosis and its results, observed during hospital treat- ment only— 439 or 74.9 per cent were healed. 59 “ 10.1 “ “ “ unhealed. 50 “ 8.5 “ “ “ amputated. 38 “ 6.5 “ “ “ dead. Of 384 patients observed from one to fourteen years after resection—- 274 or 71.3 per cent were permanently healed. 46 “ 12 “ “ showed siuuses. 18 “ 4.7 “ “ were unhealed. 10 “ 2.6 “ “ “ amputated. 36 “ 9.4 “ “ “ dead. It seems hardly worth while to quote in full the very large number of statistics given on this subject, and the more recent references therefore only are given.1 It is evident that the mortality rate is a low one (3-10 per cent.), that the results of the operation are more satisfactory than in the hip, and that it is a proceeding to be undertaken without hesita- tion when necessary. Excision of the knee is, I believe, indicated (а) when the disease is advanced to a stage when sinuses of long standing are present, and the joint is thickened, hot, and tender; (б) when in spite of careful mechanical treatment the disease has progressed unfavorably, and flexion and sensitiveness of the joint cannot be controlled; (c) in cases of moderate severity when mechan- ical treatment cannot be obtained; and (cl) in cases of cured disease where anchylosis in a position of right-angled flexion is present. In the acute stages of the disease the operation is much less likely to be of use in the case of adults, and amputation is often to be preferred; but this is a matter which must be decided in the individual case rather than by rule, and belongs to the domain of general surgery. Arthrectomy or erasion of the knee-joint has been advocated as a sub- stitute for excision by many surgeons of distinction. Arthrotomy is a term used to describe the same procedure, but the former name is the correct one. Synovectomy is another name occasionally employed. The operation consists in opening the joint freely by a semilunar in- cision, as if for a resection. Tbe joint capsule is cut away in front of the joint, and all pulpy granulation tissue is removed by the scissors and forceps, or by the curette; diseased foci in the bone are gouged out, and in doing this, especially at the back of the joint, much care is necessary. The infiltrated capsule and semilunar cartilages are removed, and every effort must be used to leave none but sound tissue. In accomplishing this the application of the Paquelin cautery is often useful. Various modifications in the operative technique have been suggested, but the essentials of the procedure are as above given. The operation, it is easy to see, is not suited to advanced cases, and is most likely to be of use in those of primary synovial tuberculosis, which are not as common as the osseous. If the surgeon believes, as I do, that mechanical treat- ment is sufficient to cure most cases, and should be persisted in until it is manifestly inadequate, he will see that it will then commonly be 1 Ollier, Sur la Resection du Genou, Bull, de l’Acad. de Medecine, No. 20, 1889. Hitzegrad, Mitt, aus der cliirurg. Ivlinik zu Kiel, Bd. iv. Zoege-Manteuffel, Deutsche Zeitscbrift f. Chirurgie, Bd. xxix., S. 113. Neugebauer (101 resections of Liicke’s), ibid., Bd. xxix., S. 4. Boeckel (140 cases), La Semaine Medicale, 12 Avril, 1892. Cristovitch. Bull, gen. de Therapeutique, Paris, 15 Avril, 1892.