VOL. VII.—21 ( 321 ) VENEREAL DISEASES: SYPHILIS. BY ARTHUR VAN HARLINGEN, M.D., PROFESSOR OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN IN THE PHILADELPHIA POLYCLINIC; PHYSICIAN TO THE DEPARTMENT FOR SKIN DISEASES, HOWARD HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Chancre. Herpetiform Chancre.—This almost always appears on the mucous membrane of the glans penis or on that of the prepuce, or on both at once. It is a very deceptive lesion, because it first shows itself very shortly after coition, and at first presents only the appearance of her- pes genitalis. Little by little its real character appears. The herpetic lesion becomes covered with a pseudo-membranous deposit, its base becomes gradually infiltrated, and if multiple the herpetic erosions coalesce, become elevated above the surrounding surface, and finally take on all the characters of a syphilitic initial lesion. Meantime the inguinal glands gradually become engorged in a typical manner. The multiplicity of the herpetic chancre is one of its most character- istic features. Mauriae has seen as many as twenty on the balanic mucous membrane. Mixed Chancre. — When an individual has been inoculated with the virus of chancroid and syphilis simultaneously, or with only a few days’ interval, the following symptoms are observed:— At the end of thirty-six or forty-eight hours a sore appears, having all the properties of a chancroid, that is to say, being auto-inoculable, having around it, perhaps, other small ulcerations, and, at a little dis- tance lymphangeitis, virulent adenitis, buboes, etc. After four or five weeks, however, the aspect of the sore changes. Induration about its base sets in, and without losing its chancroidal character the sore takes on the aspect of a syphilitic lesion with its generalized symptoms following. Of course if the patient has already had syphilis, inoculation with this mixed virus will only give rise to chancroid. The interval between the development of the two kinds of virus de- pends on the dates of their respective reception. If an individual is in- fected with syphilis on the first day of the month and with chancroid in the same place on the last day of the same month, the two poisons will break out almost simultaneously. Mauriae1 gives numerous ex- amples of mixed infection at various dates. 1 Nouvelles Lemons sur les Maladies Veneriennes, p. 335. Paris, 1890