SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 586 from one animal to another with some degree of success. Whether this can ever be done from an animal to man, is doubtful, but further experi- ments in animals are desirable. Abscess of the Brain. Causes.—By far the most common cause of abscess of the brain is suppuration of the middle ear. This is the cause in perhaps 50 per cent, of intracranial abscesses, and will be considered in connection with other intracranial lesions of similar origin. Next to disease of the ear, traumatism is the most frequent occasion of brain abscesses. They arise sometimes even from simple contusions from which recovery may apparently have taken place for weeks or even months or years. Thus Mr. Darner Harrisson 1 has reported a case arising ten years after the injury. Souques2 also reports one arising eleven years after fracture. In a very remarkable case published by Macewen 3 a very large secondary cerebral abscess seemed to have had its origin in an old encysted abscess, the cause of which is not given. The acute abscess had destroyed practically the whole of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, and involved the third frontal and ascending convolu- tions. After several ounces of pus had been evacuated, the old en- cysted abscess was seen floating like a tennis-ball in the cavity of the secondary abscess. In addition to this, abscesses may arise from exposure to cold, and in at least three cases4 the origin of the trouble seems to have been an attack of influenza. In Clutton’s case there was also thrombosis of the lateral sinus and the internal jugular vein, as well as generalized pyaemia, yet the patient recovered. Schindler5 has also recorded a case following inflammation of the frontal sinus, probably a result of grippe. Treves6 has recorded a case following phosphorus necrosis of the upper jaw. Griffith 7 recites one caused by caries of the orbit. Walton8 reports a very remarkable case, and the first reported, of successful diagnosis and evacuation of a cerebral abscess following fetid pneumonia. Virchow demonstrated the occurrence of these abscesses after gangrene of the lung, and Nathe9 reports cases following pulmo- nary abscess, gangrene, infective pneumonia, pleurisy after wound of the lung, endocarditis, empyema, and bronchiectasis. Occasionally also .tubercular abscesses are found in the brain. Pathological Anatomy.—An intracranial abscess may exist be- tween the dura and the skull, extra-dural abscess, which almost always arises from caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (vide infra); or, secondly, between the dura and the brain, sub-clural abscess; or, thirdly, in the substance of the brain, cerebral or cerebellar abscess. 1 Brit. Med. Journal, Apr. 21, 1888. 2 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1888. 3 Brit. Med. Journal, 1888. 4 Zeller, Berl. klin. Wocliensclir., 1892, No. 34, S. 869; Clutton, Brit. Med. Journal, 1892, vol. i., p. 807; Williamson, Manchester Med. Chronicle, March, 1891. 5 Centralbl. fur Chirurgie, 1893, S. 24. 6 Lancet, 1892, vol. ii., p. 1349. 1 Manchester Med. Chron., May, 1889, p. 167. 8 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Nov. 17, 1892, p. 473 9 Deutsch. Arch, fur klin. Med., Bd. xxxiv., S. 161.