INFLAMMATION. 2 vascular paralysis and exudation; that it might be produced by a for- eign body, such as a splinter of wood, or that it might be due to a poi- son in the blood, and the activity of the bacteria in producing the con- dition was not only ignored, but was unknown. With the advance of our knowledge, has gradually come the belief that practically all forms of true inflammation are the result of the activity of bacteria, and this belief has gone so far as to permit Gerster 1 to make the assertion, which, however, is not quite correct, that bacteria are necessary for the production of all inflammations. His position is stated as follows:— “An injury of some kind has devitalized the tissues of a certain region, and these become a living pabulum for micrococci. The living tissues around still form a decided resistance to the invasion of the microbe. Bacteria cannot thrive on the products of decomposition. They need for their sustenance dead, but undecomposed, albuminoid substances. As soon as the supply of dead animal tissue is exhausted, the micro-organisms starve and perish, while the sjiores are left behind dormant. We will suppose the injury resulting in the inflammation to have been a wound. This has destroyed the vitality of those cells that lie in the direct path of the cutting implement. The blood and lymph exuded from the vessels have coagulated, and also the dead matter. If a number of micro- cocci are implanted in the bottom of the wound, they are at once multiplied, using the blood clot and its extensions into the blood-vessels, together with the adjacent dead or devitalized tissues, as welcome soil for their development. This fermentative decomposition produces, from the very beginning, certain poisonous alkaloids—-ptomaines—that are very diffusible. These have a toxic influence on the adjacent vaso-motor nerves, causing their paralytic dilatation, hence the active hypersemia, the rubor. The blood passing through the adja- cent arterioles and capillaries seems also to become altered, the red corpuscles become packed, and finally stagnate in the smaller vessels. The walls of these vessels, including the veins, lose their impermeability, and there is emigration of the leucocytes, and even of the red corpuscles, into the surrounding tissues, hence the swelling, turgor. Chiefly as a consequence of the increased blood supply, a marked increase of the local temperature is observed, color. Direct pressure, caused by the dense inflammation, and the actual destruction of the nerve tissue, perhaps also in some measure the immediate influeuce of the ptomaines on the sensory nerve filaments of the part, give rise to pain, the dolor. Stagnation and dense infiltration finally produce a very high degree of tension, leading to com- pression of large afferent vessels. The inflamed portions, devitalized by sup- pression of the animal circulation, readily succumb to the inroads of the millions of micro-organisms, and actual necrosis rapidly follows. The last stage of tex- tural destruction is the final liquefaction of the tissues and infiltrating leucocytes, aided by the exudation of large quantities of lymph serum from the adjacent unobstructed blood-vessels, and thus we have the formation of an abscess, or a cavity, filled with lymph serum, dead leucocytes (pus cells), and shreds of necrosed tissue. The veins also participate in the disturbance, and give actually of their contents; thrombosis takes place, and adds to the existing stagnation.” Here we have stated very briefly the usual processes seen in what is called inflammation, together with the old cardinal points that have always been considered as going to make up the clinical picture to which the name is given. A better statement even than this, and per- haps the best in any of the recent monographs upon the subject, is that which is to be found in “An American Text-Book of Surgery” (Philadelphia, 1892), in which it is stated that “inflammation is a dis- Aseptic and Antiseptic Surgery, 1888.