1058 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. are of brick, and the partitions are of terra-cotta blocks. The first- floor plan is shown in Fig. 1811. Connecting with the main hospital is a basement corridor, over which is a terrace approach to the first floor; the veranda to the entrance has movable sashes at the sides, and a glass roof, which covers the space between the wards and the annex containing the service-rooms. The terrace and veranda floors are of stone flagging, and the remaining floors are of mosaic tiling supported on iron beams and tiled arches. The walls have a marble wainscoting three feet high; above this there is painted adamant plastering, and all angles at floors, walls, and ceil- ings are rounded. There is a fireplace in each room, and steam heat- ing by indirect radiation, with mixing valves at the foot of each fresh- air inlet duct. Ventilating registers, near floor and ceiling, open into the vent-shaft in the central chimney of each group of rooms; this shaft is heated by steam-pipes to insure the outflow of foul air. A peculiarity of the arrangement of the rooms is that their several groups are separated by cross corridors with glazed doors at each end opening upon the verandas, or terraces; these corridors extend upward to the roof of the building, forming windowed gables, and afford abundance of light and ventilation, with the effect of isolating opposite rooms as if they opened to the outer air. The Boston City Hospital, under the management of Dr. Rowe, is showing, in a remarkable manner, the tendency of the times in these matters. With the rebuilding of its surgical operating-theatre, a large addition is being made of accessory rooms for special kinds of surgical work, sterilizing apparatus, etc., in the best modern modes of construction. An extensive pathological building and mortuary, with clinical laboratories, have been liberally planned under the advice of Dr. Councilman, and are just completed. An important group of buildings, constituting an elaborately perfected Hospital for Contagious Diseases, has recently been occupied. It is isolated from the main hos- pital, upon an adjoining city lot, and its principal parts are the admini- stration and domestic blocks, a house for 60 nurses, and two pavilions, each of two stories, accommodating a total of 136 patients in special wards for men, women, and children. A unique feature of the pavilions is, that because of the restricted area upon which they had to be placed, the three several sections of each building are separated by cross corri- dors opening to the outer air at each end; these are open from basement to roof, and have iron stairways. Here and elsewhere there are floors of marble mosaic or asphalt, v,Tallsof enamelled brick, and cement ceilings. Quite in contrast with the plan of employing a number of small de- tached pavilions, these carefully devised arrangements appear to be satisfactory for efficiently affording the isolation of the various groups of patients. The definite knowledge that has now been gained by the scientific tests of disinfection establishes a basis for its practical application. According to Parsons, Sternberg, Blyth, and others, heat is undoubtedly entitled to the first place among the agents available for the destruc- tion of infectious material external to the bodies of living animals. In nearly all the important infectious diseases of man and the lower ani- mals, it is safe to assume that the temperature which kills the tubercle bacilli (212° F.) will be sufficient to accomplish disinfection. Ample