ERYSIPELAS. 77 of latitude; many places in the infected region remained entirely free from the contagion. We must not forget, however, that a number of the highest author- ities do not believe in the erysipelatous character of the epidemic just mentioned. Men like Hirsch and von Volkmann have grave doubts whether a good many of these cases were not more of a diphtheritic nature than truly erysipelatous. We must bear in mind that those who observed this epidemic had to base their diagnosis entirely on the clinical symptoms, and did not have the absolute bacteriological proof of its nature, so easily accessible to any student of medicine now- adays. Therefore, with all respect to the high abilities of the above- mentioned authorities, we have to leave in doubt whether some other diseases, especially diphtheria and dysentery, were not confounded with it, though it is beyond question that, if this be true, a great many cases were complicated by erysipelas; and it is only fair to mention that Tillmanns, in his admirable treatise on Erysipelas,1 is all but convinced of the truly erysipelatous character of this most interesting epidemic, which is unparalleled in medical history. Etiology.—While in those times the clinical features and epidemic character of the disease excited the special interest of physicians, the question of the causative agent has come into prominence since the be- ginning of the bacteriological tendency in medicine. As has been the case with most of the infectious diseases, the bacteriological investiga- tion of erysipelas has also been crowned with success. Its bacteriological nature was made probable by the discovery of cocci, found in the skin, lymph, and blood of patients with this disease, by von Volkmann, Wilde, Orth, von Recklinghausen, Lukowsky, and Tillmanns. This was in the decade from 1870 to 1880, when our modern ideas about the etiology of diseases had gained ground, though an absolute result was unattainable with the methods of examination then possessed. The reason why we could not get beyond the probability that the microbes which we saw were really the specific agents of erysipelas, was that the direct proof was still wanting. The latter was not possible till Koch's great dis- covery of a solid, transparent, culture medium (Nahrbodem, and the modern development of bacteriological technique by his agency, which permitted the differentiating of various bacteria occurring at one and the same time, and their cultivation in pure cultures which could he used for experiments on animals. After this was established, it was Fehleisen who brought forth, in 1882 and 1883, his streptococcus ery- sipelatis as the specific cause of the disease in question. This was proved beyond any reasonable doubt, as he could fulfil the three princi- pal demands of Koch’s doctrine. For he found the microbe constantly in the lymphatic system of erysipelatous skin; secondly, he could culti- vate it in pure cultures outside of the human body; and lastly, he could generate erysipelas by inoculations with cultures not only in animals, but also, what is vastly more important, in man. The exposition of the etiology of erysipelas is very simple and short, if we admit the modern point of view, and accept what the whole sci- entific world has accepted. The definition can be condensed into one short sentence: erysipelas is a wound-complication of the skin and 1 Deutsche Chirurgie, Lieferung v., 1880.