LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS—ACUTE ARTHRITIS OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 497 a 10-per-cent. mixture of iodoform in glycerin should be thrown not only into the joint but into the thickened fungous capsule with an ordinary hypodermic syringe. The procedure should be repeated at intervals of a week, and each time at a new place in the joint contour. The ethereal solution should never he used, and the best method of using the iodoform is in the glycerin mixture. Senn says that from three fluidrachms to one fluid-ounce is the average dose. The strictest antiseptic precautions should be used, and the injections should be persisted in until the indications point to a cessation of tubercular inflammation, or until the result has shown the inefficacy of the treat- ment and the necessity of operative interference. However these injections are used they cannot be regarded as a substitute for mechani- cal measures, but should he employed in connection with the best ortho- paedic treatment obtainable. Loose Bodies in Joints. The only change that has occurred in the views held as to the forma- tion of these bodies, lies in the recognition of the tubercular character of many of them which were formerly supposed to be due to other causes. The larger loose bodies are generally of some other origin, either occur- ring in cases of rheumatoid arthritis or being traumatic,1 but the smaller loose bodies have of late been recognized as most often the product of tubercular inflammation. Although the bacilli of tuberculosis have not yet been found in them, they are capable of producing tuberculosis when inoculated.2 They were at first thought by Konig3 to consist purely of fibrin, the result of the tuberculous inflammation, but Schu- chardt4 and others6 advocate the view that they are rather the result of proliferation of the synovial membrane, by which papillomatous growths are pedunculated and cast loose into the joint. The modern treatment is removal by simple incision.6 Acute Arthritis of Young Children. This affection of the joints, originally brought to the attention of the medical public by Mr. T. Smith7 under the name of the acute arthritis of infants, is an acute osteomyelitis of the articular ends of the bones form- ing the joint. Researches of later years have merely served to show that the affection cannot be regarded as due to traumatism alone,8 but that it is a septic process resembling pyaemia in most instances. Culti- vations made from the cocci of acute osteomyelitis, when injected into ’Marsh, British Medical Journal, April 14, 1888. Shattock, Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xv., p. 206. Hueter, Cf. St. George’s Hosp. Reports, 1867. Vii'chow, Die krankhaften Geschwulste, Berlin, 1863. Klein, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xxix., S. 190. Kragelund, Cen- tralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1887, S. 412. 2 Wallich, La Semaine Medicale, 21 Nov., 1888. Senn, op. cit., p. 147. 3 Konig, Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, Bd. xiii., S. 25. 4 Schuchardt, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. cxiv., Heft 1, S. 186. 5 Tillmanns, Archiv f. mikr. Anatomie. 1874, Bd. x., S. 425. 6 Woodward, Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, April 25, 1889. ’ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1874. vol. x. 8 Rosenbach, Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1884, No. 5, 1877, S. 289. Krause, Fortschr. der Medicin, 1884, Nos. 7 und 8. VOL. VII.—32