97 SEPTICAEMIA. surface of the kidney we find disseminated under the capsule minute foci of a yellowish color, which are surrounded by a tolerably sharply circumscribed zone of hypersemia, and which represent the changes undergone by the glomeruli of the cortical substance. Manifold mi- croscopical examinations by Ebert, von Recklinghausen, and a great many others, have shown that the cause of these changes in septicaemia, as well as in diphtheria and erysipelas, must be sought in the presence of multitudes of colonies of micrococci in the capillaries of the glome- ruli, and in the vessels of the cortical substance. We must further note,, that pregnancies are ended by abortion during septicaemia with absolute regularity, and we find, therefore, corresponding changes in the genital apparatus. Symptomatology.—The clinical course and symptoms of septicaemia are characterized by a high, usually continuous fever, and a series of typical inflammatory processes. But it must be added that there are septicaemias where high temperatures do not occur, or at least are incon- stant, and give way to normal and sub-normal temperatures, while very high frequency of the pulse seems to be constant (see Fig. 1588). Fig. 1588. Pulse Daws 1 2 3 | 0 5 6 i 8 9 10 u 180 M E M E M E M E M E M E M E M E M E Me m E 170 JOV IfiO JOl> + 1.)0 1 OS 7? 140 10U lift ln.i / 1?0 1031. J A 7~l nil 101 f A A ioa 100 n ij \) rA V . A ao 99 1 A A V V A 80 9X 1 1 / V-1 \ ID 97 H + 1 2 No. 1.—Fever-curve of Septicaemia, with high fever, death at 106° with pulse 170, the third day after operation (laparotomy). No. 2—Fever-curve of Septicaemia with slight fever; death the fourth day after injury (gunshot wound) with subnormal, sinking temperature and rapid pulse. The wounds from which septicaemia starts are sometimes fresh ones, sometimes granulating. Formerly, the idea of Billroth was accepted, that healthy granulations were impermeable to putrid fluids, but this proved to be not true, as Maas and Hack have shown, and as coincides with clinical experience. The local symptoms are very variable, and there are cases, as already mentioned, where the general intoxication takes place with such rapidity that no important local symptoms can occur. These are, however, exceptional cases. Usually, the cases with distinct progressive inflammation starting from the infected spot show a decidedly less favorable prognosis than others. The usual course of those septicaemias which start from small lesions, as, for instance, of the finger, is as follows: from twelve to twenty-four hours after the injury, a chill sets in, with a temperature rising to 104° F., or more; the small wound is painful and inflamed; the glands of the elbow and axilla begin to swell; and the arm shows VOL. vii.—7