418 INJURIES OF BONES. continuously applied, and at the end of about three months the man was discharged, walking well, and with the limb apparently of normal length. Inan instance reported by Bull,1 a man aged 30 fell through a hatch- way, sustaining a compound fracture of the innominate bone, opening the liip-joint; he recovered with a useful limb. I have recently had at the Pennsylvania Hospital a case in which suppuration occurred about a fragment, comminuted fracture of the ilium having taken place ten years before; healing took place promptly after the splinter had been removed. Pollock2 gives a case in which a man aged 55, run over by an engine, had a fracture of the pelvis, and a spicula of bone wounded the left internal iliac artery, causing his death in seven hours; he had also two or three upper ribs broken. Sir Charles Bell3 mentions an Irish laborer who fell from a height, injuring his right hip; a swelling ensued, ex- tending from the lower ribs half-way down the thigh; on incision, blood only flowed, and after death it was found that there was a frac- ture into the sciatic notch, the gluteal artery being wounded, with for- mation of a false aneurism. A fracture of the sacrum is reported by Hirst.4 A woman, aged 32, with six children, the youngest being 3 years old, had fallen three stories, striking on the sacrum. When seen by Hirst, it was found that the bone had been broken transversely at the level of the posterior inferior spinous processes, and that the fragments had united at an angle 90 degrees salient forward; the outlet of the pelvis was reduced to 1^ inches in its antero-posterior diameter. Fractures of the Humerus. Pollosson 5 has reported a case in which a woman died after suffering severely with eclampsia, and the head of each humerus was found to present a deep indentation apparently made by the anterior edge of the glenoid cavity; the cancellous structure beneath was infiltrated with blood. A number of cases of separation of the upper epiphysis have been put upon record. Tubby, in the paper before referred to, cites an instance in a boy aged 14, under the care of Mr. Durham, and another in a girl aged 17, a patient of Mr. Davies-Colley; in both the cause was direct violence, and a good result was obtained. Rollet6 reports two cases of Poncet's. In one, that of a girl aged 15, the projecting edge of the lower or shaft fragment was resected on the thirty-ninth day; in the other, that of a boy aged 17, the operation was performed on the forty- first day; perfect union was obtained in both. Knox,7 in the case of a boy aged 16, where the end of the diaphysis protruded through the deltoid muscle, effected reduction, applied an antiseptic dressing, a felt shoulder-cap, and an inside angular splint; complete recovery ensued. Clark,8 in a similar case, was obliged to amputate, the limb becoming gangrenous from injury to the axillary artery. ■New York Med. Journal, Jan. 17, 1885. 2 British Med. Journal, March 14, 1885. 3Principles of Surgery (1826), vol. i., p. 383. 4 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Jan. 5, 1893. 5Revue de Chirurgie, Nov., 1888. Lyon Medical, 29 Mars, 1891. ■Medical News, Dec. 5, 1885. 8 Glasgow Medical Journal, Sept., 1886.