570 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Subdural Hemorrhage—It has been suggested that as the middle cerebral artery can be easily reached by prolonging upward and back- ward the anterior bone-opening just mentioned, by means of the rongeur, the dura might be opened, the clot removed, and the main trunk sought for and tied in the Sylvian fissure if found to be the source of hemorrhage; but as subdural bleeding usually comes from numerous small meningeal or cortical vessels beneath the point of frac- ture, it is rarely possible to find the bleeding points, though, of course, if a clot were found it might be turned out and drainage instituted.1 It must not be overlooked that hemorrhage by con tre-coup2 sometimes exists at a point opposite to the seat of external injury, and, if the symptoms indicate, must also be sought at that point.3 4 Diagnosis of Head Injuries from Alcoholic Coma and Apoplexy. Phelps' has insisted upon the fact that, after recovery from shock, “an early, continuous, and very constant symptom in all classes of head injury,” with encephalic lesions, is a rise of temperature; and that this “is a constant phenomenon, whatever the nature of the lesion or wherever situated,” being probably “due to an affection of the cortex as a whole.” In a very few exceptional cases the temperature may at first be depressed, but then it usually rises promptly to from 101° to even 109° F., usually not higher than 104.8°, notably in cases which are re- coverable. In alcoholic coma, as pointed out in my former article, the temperature is depressed, ranging from 96° to 98° F., with slow or nor- mal pulse, the depression of temperature being proportionate to the depth of the coma. In apoplexy, Phelps, in common with Bourneville, has found that at the outset the temperature is subnormal, and then nearly normal, remaining so if recovery ensues, but rising markedly if the case is to terminate fatally. Fungus Cerebri. Ten years’ further experience only more firmly convinces me that the comparatively low mortality I assigned to this condition, if properly treated, was warranted by facts. If a septic encephalitis be not the cause, or if the patient survive this disease, nature is fully competent to deal with the protrusion; absolutely nothing beyond aseptic, unirri- tating dressings, with support—not pressure—is requisite, the shrink- age of the enveloping layer of granulation-tissue effecting the reduc- tion of the fungus. 11 have done tlms once, evacuating fully six ounces of bloody fluid and old clots nearly three weeks after the primary injury. The source of the hemorrhage was not detectable ; bleeding recurred in moderate amount and death occurx-ed with elevated temperature a few days after the operation. 2 Brain laceration is nearly always thus caused. 3 See page 508 for methods of arresting hemorrhage from the vessels of the pia and brain substance. 4 Phelps, Clinico-Pathological Study of Injuries of the Head with Special Reference to Lesions of the Brain Substance, New York Med. Journal, Jan. 14, 21, and 28, 1893.