SURGICAL AFFECTION'S OF THE THYROID GLAND. 773 capsule of the gland, and those just within. They are elongated, assume a tortuous course, and very often present a corkscrew-like arrangement where they enter the parenchyma of the gland. In ex- treme cases the vascular condition resembles that of a cirsoid aneurism. It may be congenital (Haidenhain), or may form the important ele- ment of a goitre of adult life. The varicose goitre is more common than the variety just described. It affects the intra-capsular as well as the extra-capsular veins. In the soft nodular masses of the follicular goitre, irregular dilatations in the periphery of the nodules are far from common. As sources of hemor- rhage into, and consequent sudden enlargement of, the goitre, these dilated veins and the ampullar pouches connected with them are im- portant factors. It is, however, in the peripheral veins that the vari- cose condition is most marked. Here the vessels appear as sinuses, often as large as a pencil or the finger, winding in their course, and displaying numerous diverticula of varied form and size. Such vari- cosities are mostly observed in large goitres of long duration. (I) Colloid and Cystic Goitre.—This form of goitre follows a colloid degeneration of the epithelial cells of the follicles. It generally attains large dimensions. On section the gland presents one or more large cavities filled with a’thick, gummy, yellowish, jelly-like material, re- moved with difficulty, and rich in albumin and sodic and kalic chlor- ides. Before extensive colloid changes have ensued the primary glan- dular structure is retained, the lobules appearing larger and containing within their centres a gelatinous mass. Even in larger cavities ves- tiges of cylindrical cells are to be detected. Similar masses of unchanged cells are often found within the gelatinous material, by proliferation of solid cell masses from peripheral layers. In this way smaller cysts are often formed within the larger. Primarily as large as a lentil, the gelatinous masses increase in size with the degeneration of the new- formed cells. The inter-acinous stroma and its blood-vessels atrophy from pressure, and thus contiguous cysts are fused. Through repetition of this process the number of cysts in the goitre may be reduced until only one large cyst remains, which by the imperfect septa within dis- closes its origin from many. The metamorphosis of some of the epithelial cells results in choles- terin production. This is often extensive enough to give the cyst con- tents a sebaceous character. Through deposit of lime salts they are in rare cases converted into calculi. The contents of large cysts often present a grumous appearance, of chocolate or even darker color, from the admixture of blood. The hemorrhages may resnjt from the ero- sion by pressure of a varicose vein, from trauma, or as the result of a puncture. If the bleeding is abundant coagulation may follow, but otherwise the blood is diffused throughout the gelatinous material, causing it to resemble very closely the grumous contents of an ova- rian cyst. While from the foregoing account it is seen that colloid degeneration leads to cyst formation, a cystic goitre may develop in another way. Without the formation of colloid, an accumulation of an albuminous fluid occurs within the follicles, the cells undergoing usually a fatty degeneration. The single follicles increase in size, the connective tis- sue walls atrophy as above described, and many small cysts become