OPERATION'S PRACTISED UPON NERVES. 391 structed rongeur was used to connect the two openings, and the gan- glion was scraped out with a small sharp spoon. Professor Andrews has operated upon four cases; in two complete relief continued at the end of a year; one patient died from shock. Hartley, of New York, has performed intracranial neurectomy of the second and third divisions of the fifth nerve by the following method:— An omega or horseshoe-shaped incision was made with its base at the zygoma, beginning at the external angular process, carried up to the temporal ridge, and ending at about the position of the tragus; after resecting the skin and muscle, the pericranium was divided in the same line; the bone was severed with a grooved chisel, in the upper part the groove in the bone extending through both tables, in the lower part only to the inner table; then, using a periosteal elevator as a lever, the bone was broken on a line corresponding to the base of the incision, and the entire flap was turned downward; after ligation of the middle meningeal artery, the dura was raised with the brain from the middle fossa of the skull, using for this purpose broad, highly polished retractors, and the foramina of exit of the second and third divisions of the nerve were exposed; these nerves were then divided with a tenotome, and the portions between the respective foramina and the ganglion were excised; the cut ends were pushed through the openings so as to separate them as far as possible from the ganglion. The flap was then replaced and the pericranium and scalp sutured. The operation thus consists of an osteoplastic resection. If thought desirable, the ganglion may also be scooped out. Fedor Krause lias operated by a similar method, as have also Mc- Burney (2 cases) and Roberts. In Hartley’s case the pain had not re- turned after 18 months. In all the other cases there has been relief from pain, and, though of course they are too recent to speak definitely as to the value of the operation, there has been no fatal result. Krause in three cases also tore away the entire trifacial root with the Gasserian ganglion. Horsley says that complete removal of the Gasserian ganglion is impossible without tearing the wall of the cavernous sinus. He there- fore determined to divide the nerve behind the ganglion, and operated in the following manner:— A large flap was raised from the temporal region, the incision beginning at the an- terior end of the zygoma, following the temporal ridge, and ending at the junction of the temporal, parietal, and occipital bones; the flap was turned up, and, by trephining and chiselling, the squamous portion of the temporal bone was removed. The dura was then opened, exposing thus the temporo-sphenoidal lobe; the middle meningeal artery was ligated. By means of a broad retractor the brain was care- fully raised from the floor of the skull, and the cavity was illuminated by electric light. The dura mater over the nerve was slit open, a hook was inserted, and the nerve was torn away from the pons varolii. The patient thus operated upon, however, died of shock. The following cases of intracranial neurectomy have occurred in my own practice:— Case I.—Intracranial Neurectomy of the Superior Maxillary Nerve.—M. S., female, admitted to the German Hospital (private room) March 16, 1894, with the history of having suffered for a number of years from neuralgia of the supe- rior maxillary nerve. The parts supplied by the three terminal branches of this nerve were so sensitive that it required but a slight draft of air upon the surface to excite both pain and spasm. She had had two operations previously (Carno-