SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 330 the form of a rubber plaster, may be advantageously employed, or the following prescription may be used: Ijfc Acid, salicyl., 3ss; Ext. canna- bis ind.. gr. x; Collodii, f 3 i. M. This is to be applied for three or four days, and the wart is then to be scraped. The removal of the larger, vascular warts is best accomplished by the ligature, galvano-caustic wire, or ecraseur; to stop the bleeding which follows, percliloride or persulphate of iron, and pressure, will be sufficient. Liquor sodae clilor- inatae, diluted, may be employed in the treatment of venereal warts occurring about the labia, to be followed by the application of calomel in powder, resorcin, or burnt alum and savin, equal parts. Van Har- lingen recommends the following prescription for patches of warts: 1$ Pulv. acidi arsenios., gr. vi; Ung. hydrarg., Empl. hydrarg. aa q. s. ad 3ij- It is best to apply this salve on thin kid skin; it must not be used over too large an area at a time, as absorption may take place. Diseases of the Nails. Onychia Syphilitica.—During the secondary and tertiary stages of syphilis the disease frequently manifests itself by various lesions of the nails and their immediate surroundings, and these lesions may be mild or severe, and transient or permanent in their effects, according to the intensity of the localization of the specific virus in this portion of the body. At the best the affection is chronic, and the management of these cases may become exceedingly tedious and unsatisfactory. Etiology.—This form of onychia is due, as has been said, to inocula- tion of the specific virus of syphilis, and develops as one of the later manifestations of that systemic condition. Symptoms.—Clinically, the affection most commonly appears in the dry or friable form, called by the French onyxis craquelee, in which the implicated nail presents a lustreless and dry appearance, becomes yellowish-gray in color, exceedingly friable, and irregularly thickened, with furrows and ridges alternating upon its distorted surface. These depressions in the nail are due to a form of disintegration and dry rot- ting of the nail substance, and their formation is accompanied by a cor- responding rolling upward of the edges of the nail, the condition being just the reverse of that seen in onychauxis. It must be borne in mind, however, that the coexistence of onychia and onychauxis is frequently noted, and this distinction therefore cannot be regarded as of diagnostic importance. Very often the tissues surrounding the nail present a con- gested, purplish appearance, with some desquamation of the surface, and pressure made upon this purplish rim may cause a few drops of un- healthy-looking pus to exude. It is claimed by some syphilographers that this condition is most frequently encountered among women. At times, without any manifestations of inflammatory action in the sur- rounding parts, the nails may become loosened and may finally be shed, the whole process being unattended with subjective signs, as in the case of syphilitic alopecia. When onychauxis is associated with this condi- tion, the nail ma}7 assume a size three or four times that of the normal, and to this form has been given the name of hypertrophic onychia. As has been indicated above, syphilitic onychia is frequently associated with a form of paronychia or inflammatory disease of the tissues in