804 INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. attempts at intubation should be abandoned, and tracheotomy should be resorted to. It sometimes happens that the intubation-tube from which the thread has been removed is displaced from the larynx by coughing, and passes into the pharynx, and is swallowed. This seems like a serious accident, but I have never known of a fatal result to fol- low the occurrence, as the tube is usually passed through the alimen- tary canal without difficulty. Personally, I have never seen any serious accidents happen during the operation of intubation, or while the intubation-tube was in place, but I always bear in mind the possi- bility of such accidents occurring at the time of operation, and during the period the tube is worn, and always have at hand my tracheotomy case so that I may promptly open the trachea if necessary, and would advise all operators who make use of intubation to be similarly prepared. After-Treatment of Cases of Intubation.—A patient who has had an intubation-tube introduced should be under the care of a nurse, who should be instructed as to the management of any emer- gencies which may arise while it is in place. If dyspnoea suddenly develops from obstruction of the tube by a piece of loose membrane too large to pass through it, and the tube is not displaced by the violent expiratory efforts of the patient, the nurse should be instructed to attempt its removal by traction upon the thread, if this has been left in place, or if the thread has been withdrawn she should invert the child, when by striking over the posterior portion of the chest, or by pressure upon the larynx from below upward, she may be able to dislodge the tube. A case lias been reported recently in which a nurse saved the patient’s life by this manipulation. In the after-treatment of cases of intubation, I have the patient inhale a spray of Parker’s soda solution, applied by means of a hand or steam atomizer. The solution I refer to contains Sodii carbonatis 3 i.- 3 ij. Glycerin;® f § i. Aquae q. s. ad f § vi. I also often employ a spray of peroxide of hydrogen diluted one-half with water, both being efficient in dissolving membrane and liquefying secretions. I usually have the spray used every half-hour, or more frequently if there is little tendency to expectoration. The use of the soda spray is most important in what are commonly described as dry cases. Feeding of Patients after Intubation. —The feeding of the patient is the most difficult portion of the after-treatment of cases of intuba- tion. The act of deglutition is often seriously interfered with by the presence of the tube, as from the imperfect action of the epiglottis liquids are apt to pass into the larynx, causing choking and setting up coughing, which interferes with taking a sufficient quantity of nourish- ment; and this interference with the proper nourishment of the patient constitutes, in my mind, one of the most serious objections to the opera- tion of intubation. I find, as a rule, that patients wearing intubation- tubes have difficulty in swallowing liquids, but some are occasion- ally met with who swallow liquids without difficulty; therefore it is