865 INTESTINAL SUTURES AND ANASTOMOSIS. the ideal method, and for this the sutures devised by Lembert and Czerny will be found fully adequate. The condition of the patient being such as to warrant resection, the following precautions are to be observed: The point of section in the intestine must be selected where there can he no doubt of the vitality of the part. Having determined the length of bowel to be removed, it is cleared of intestinal contents by gentle pressure, and is held at each side by the fingers of a trust- worthy assistant. The intestine is divided in a slightly oblique man- ner, removing more at the periphery than at the mesenteric border, so that there may be no doubt as to the sufficiency of the blood supply. It is not desirable to remove a large Y-shaped portion of mesentery, but as little should be taken away as is compatible with avoiding acute flexion at the point of resection; the mesenteric vessels should be con- trolled by immediate ligation with fine catgut. Czerny sutures of fine silk are next to be placed at intervals of one- fourth of an inch, and tied within the intestine—the tying being delayed until all the sutures are in place. The portion of intestine between the folds of the mesentery requires the most careful attention, and one or two sutures must be placed at this point. When the first row of sutures are tied, all of the mucous membrane will be invagi- nated. The Lembert sutures should then begin at the mesentery, one or two being placed at the point at which the intestine is not covered by peritoneum, and should be continued, six to the inch, around the entire circumference of the bowel to the point of beginning. A resection undertaken under suitable conditions, and carried out in the manner described, offers every opportunity for a favorable result. Conditions sometimes arise when a resection is contra-indicated, either from the extent of intestine which would have to be removed, or from the situation of the parts involved, as in the operation of gastro-enter- ostomy. In such cases lateral anastomosis by Abbe’s method presents distinctive advantages. The method of Abbe is as follows: After resection of the intestine and closure of the divided ends by the Lem- bert suture, the parts to be joined are brought side to side, and two rows of Lembert sutures are applied, one-fourth of an inch apart, and an inch longer than the proposed incision. The material employed is fine silk, twenty-four inches long, and the needles are left threaded at the end of the row. An opening in the adjoining segments of intestine is now made, four inches long, by scissors. The incision is made one- fourth of an inch from the line of sutures, both rows being on the same side. Any bleeding vessels are caught by haemostatic forceps. The adjacent cut surfaces are now sutured by a tlirough-and-through, over- hand suture, the hemorrhage being controlled in this way. The two free borders are next sutured in a similar manner, after which the open- ings are approximated, and the first described rows of continuous Lembert sutures are continued around the opening to the point of beginning. From the description, this process would seem to require too much time. Practically, however, with a little experience, it may be very quickly accomplished. This method presents the advantage of giving a very free communication between the divided intestines, the lack of which is a serious objection to the use of plates and buttons. A great many ingenious methods have been devised to lessen the VOL. vii.—55