(117) POISONED WOUNDS. BY JOHN H. PACKARD, M.D., SURGEON TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL AND TO ST. JOSEPH’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Much of the material contained in my former article on this sub- ject 1 needs no modification. There have been, however, in this as in almost every other department of surgery, changes brought about by the adoption of the antiseptic system, as well as by further experience and observation. To set forth these changes, and to give an abstract of the published records of the profession, will be the object of this sup- plementary article. In order to avoid repetition, it may be said here that the essence of the antiseptic system is thorough and absolute cleanliness, and destruc- tion of septic material of every kind. For this purpose any wound is to be laid open, aud sterilized; and it will not be forgotten that in many poisoned wounds the septic element is strongly marked. Dissection- Wounds. Axford '2 mentions that in the Chicago pork-packing houses the work- men, and especially the “ shavers, ” are liable to suppurative cellulitis from wounds of the hands. In these cases the tendons are apt to slough and the bones to become necrosed. Antiseptic measures seem to have very little effect, and Axford suggests the early use of the actual cau- tery. A curious case is recorded 3 in which obstinate psoriasis seemed to result from a wound received during the dissection of a horse; the trouble was aggravated by a fresh infection a few years later, from the carcass of a tuberculous heifer. For the prevention of trouble from dissection-wounds, the local use of the tincture of iodine has been strongly recommended by Louge.4 Other Forms of Injury Allied to Dissection-Wounds.—Lawson5 reports a case in which very severe symptoms followed contact with a jelly-fish. Anthrax.—In March, 1891, a case of anthrax was brought to the Pennsylvania Hospital. The patient, a woman 50 years of age, had been employed picking wool at an uptown factory, and three days be- 1 See Vol. II., page 85. 2 Physician and Surgeon, Jan., 1884. 3 “ V. S., ” Lancet, Jan. 21, 1882. 4 Gaz. des Hopitaux, 13 Dec., 1887. 5 Glasgow Med. Journal, July, 1891.