684 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. Affections of the Iris and Ciliary Body. Iritis and Cyclitis.—Inflammation of the iris and ciliary body usually coexist, on account of their very intimate connection. Iritis begins with a hyperaemic condition of the iris which causes congestion of the blood-vessels and contraction of the pupil, the latter being aided by spasm of the sphincter from irritation. An exudation from the over-distended blood-vessels covers the surface of the iris, gives it a dull appearance, and changes its color. This exudation also produces a cloudiness of the aqueous humor, and when present in any quantity is precipitated in the anterior chamber, forming hypopyon. At times hemorrhages occur from the bursting of a vessel in the iris, the blood (hypohcema) occupying the anterior chamber. Exudation into the posterior chamber causes posterior synecliise. These are best seen by reflected light as small projections from the pupillary margin into the pupillary space. Atropine at once proves their existence by producing irregular dilatation, unless the entire margin is adherent, when no dila- tation occurs. The exudation may till the pupillary space and interfere seriously with vision, while the seclusion caused by total posterior synechia does not at first necessarily impair the sight, though it usually causes increase of tension which may eventually produce blindness. Cyclitis.—The exudation from the ciliary body covers that body itself, and passes into the posterior and anterior chambers and into the vitre- ous. In the anterior chamber it is seen as minute dots and specks cov- ering the membrane of Descemet, and the situation of these spots in the same plane distinguishes them from corneal disease with which they have no connection. The exudation into the posterior chamber pro- duces total posterior synechia, and exudation into the vitreous causes opacities which are readily seen with the ophthalmoscope. Tension is not increased in simple iritis, but may be so in the beginning of cyclitis, though in the end it is reduced. Pain, photophobia, ciliary injection, lachrymation and impaired vision are prominent symptoms of iridocyclitis. Duration.—Acute attacks, when properly treated, last from two to six weeks, and the eye remains sensitive for several months afterward. Iritis cannot be aborted; when taken in time it can be cured, but when not treated and allowed to become chronic it never tends to recovery. There is often a tendency to relapse, especially in chronic cases, which is probably due to a continuance of the cause. Usually but one eye is attacked, though both may be simultaneously affected, or one may be involved before the other by one or two weeks. When seen before synechiae have formed or have become firm, iritis may be cured, and vision will then be as good as before the attack, but when synechiae re- main vision will be impaired. Sequelae.—Atrophy of the iris rarely follows acute, but is common after chronic iritis. Posterior synechiae, when few and slight, do not interfere much with vision, but when there is seclusion of the pupil increased tension may follow, and sight fails as in glaucoma. Pupil- lary occlusion shuts off light and prevents vision, while exudation covering the ciliary body, filling the posterior chamber, and causing a general matting together of the iris, ciliary body, and lens, by organiz-