801 POSITION OF PATIENT—OPERATION. feet in length, and secure it with a knot. The tube should next he attached by means of the obturator to the introducer, and the operator should then see that it can be easily freed from the obturator by work- ing the trigger; this is very important, for if it does not work freely he may find that he cannot remove the obturator after the tube has been introduced into the larynx, and he may be compelled to remove the tube. The mouth-gag with the' tube and introducer should be placed in a basin of warm water. The surgeon should now protect the index finger which is to be passed into the mouth of the patient to guide the tube in place, by wrapping it for an inch or an inch and a'half behind the second joint with rubber or adhesive plaster, or by placing upon it a metal shield. This precaution is most important to prevent the finger being bitten in case the mouth-gag slips and allows the jaws to come together, for a bite from the teeth, which in diphtheritic cases are often very foul, might be followed by a disastrous result. Position of Patient for Intubation.—The child should be held erect upon the nurse’s lap, wrapped in a blanket which should cover it from the neck to the feet, and the nurse should secure the child’s elbows outside of the blanket and hold them firmly, but should not press them against the chest firmly enough to embarrass the respiratory move- ments. The legs of the patient at the same time should be secured by being held between the knees of the nurse. The patient's head should next be secured by being held between the open hands of an assistant, placed one on either side of the head and cheeks; the assistant may at the same time hold the mouth-gag after it has been introduced, with the left hand. The patient should be held as erect as possible, and the nurse should take care not to allow him to lean so far back that he gets out of the reach of the operator. The erect position is the best one in which to place the child for intubation, but it is also possible to intro- duce the intubation-tube while the patient is lying down. I have on several occasions introduced intubation-tubes while patients were in the recumbent posture, in cases in which I did not think it advisable, from the condition of the circulation, to place them in the erect position. Operation of Intubation.—When the child has been placed as above described, facing the surgeon, who sits within easy reach of the patient, the assistant fixes the head, and the surgeon opens the mouth and introduces the blades of the mouth-gag between the molar teeth of the left side; the mouth is next widely opened by compressing the han- dles of the gag, and the assistant holds the gag with the fingers of the left hand. As soon as the mouth has been widely opened, the surgeon passes the index finger of the left hand, protected by means of the plas- ter or with a metal shield, into the mouth, and carries it back to the pharynx and feels for the epiglottis; when this is recognized it is hooked forward with the finger; the intubation-tube attached to the introducer is next passed into the mouth and carried back to the pharynx, the operator observing that in its introduction it hugs the base of the tongue in the middle line, and that the handle of the instru- ment is depressed well upon the child's chest; he should also see that the silken thread attached to the tube is not entangled in the instru- ment. When the extremity of the intubation-tube comes in contact VOL. vii.—51