SPINAL CARIES. (365 5 Buck’s Reference Handbook of the Medical Sciences, vol. ix., p. 824, Fig. 591. dorsal vertebra, a “ trans-somatique” operation, with curetting and drainage, after resecting the head of the rib. Chipault has proposed to trephine or gnaw away the lamina, and then carry a drainage tube across the canal to the body of the bone. This procedure exposes the cord to danger from septic infection and is not justifiable. It is seldom possible to remove the diseased bone, and free drainage seems to be the only benefit to be derived from this operation. Schaeffer1 advises reaching the vertebral bodies behind the psoas muscle in the lumbar region, and in the dorsal region resects the transverse processes and heads of the ribs. The risk of infecting the pleural cavity with tubercular material is certainly a matter for grave consideration. Lamnectomy, formerly called Trephining of the Spine.—Re- moval of the laminse for the relief of pressure paraplegia has become an established operation in spinal caries since Macewen published his successful series of cases,2 although it is limited in its beneficial results. The majority of cases of paraplegia yield to long-continued extension, rest, and fixation of the spine, but when the carious process is limited to the posterior arches of the vertebrae the operation is undoubtedly indicated. In cases of exaggerated reflex, ankle clonus, etc., where paraplegia has persisted in spite of treatment, it is a procedure to be re- commended in a limited number of cases. Lane3 speaks most hopefully of the results; but in my experience1 it is an operation accompanied with great shock. An incision is made a little to one side of the spinous, processes. The arches are cleared from muscular tissue. During this stage of the opera- tion free venous hemorrhage may be expected, but it may usually be controlled by the use of hot water and packing. In the dorsal region the cord is comparatively accessible, but in the lumbar region, in mus- cular subjects, the operation is a tedious and difficult procedure. Abbe separates the muscles on one side only, and by cutting off the spinous processes at their bases permits them to slip over in a block. The ligamentum subflavum first appears in view, and may easily be mis- taken for the cord, but the error is soon corrected. Removal of the first lamina is the most troublesome part of the operation. It is best gnawed through with sharp rongeur forceps, or divided with a saw. After the removal of the first arch, the others may easily be taken away with rongeur forceps with flat lower blade. The base of the lower blade must be narrow so as not to become wedged. These forceps as modified by Hopkins and Keen are very serviceable.5 Frequently tuberculous deposits will be found pressing upon the cord, or there may be pus or other inflammatory deposit from pachy- meningitis, all of which should be removed as thoroughly as possible. 1 Trans. Illinois State Med. Soc., 1891. - Brit. Med. Journ., 1888, vol. ii., p. 1308; Glasgow Med. Jour., 1884, vol. xxii., p. 55; Ibid., 1885-86, vol. xxv., p. 210; Ibid., 1888, p. 11; Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 11, 1888; Lancet, July 14. 1888. 3 Brit. Med. Journ., 1891, vol. ii., p. 949; Ibid., 1892, vol. ii., p. 1495; Ibid., 1889, and June 6, 1892; Ibid., Oct. 31, 1892; Trans. Clinical Society, London, 1892, vol. xxv., p. 30; Archives of Paediatrics, March, 1893, p. 285. 4 Trans. College Physicians, Philadelphia, 1891; Mutter Lectures, 1893.