TORTICOLLIS. 557 caries is occasionally confusing at first examination, but is cleared up bv closely watching the symptoms. Hysterical contractions also are often perplexing. Torticollis from injury of the sterno-mastoid during birth is not uncommon,1 and hsematoma of the muscles should be closely watched for some time after birth. Treatment of Wry-Neck.—For the spasmodic variety, gelsemium carried to the point of constitutional poisoning has been lauded by Sinkler and others; deep injections of chloroform, strychnia, atropia, morphia, etc., have all been employed with varying degrees of benefit; electricity and massage have cured a few cases; arsenic and belladonna, and scores of other drugs, have met with temporary success. Myotomy of the sterno-mastoid is seldom sufficient in these spasmodic cases, even though performed by the complete open method, since the scaleni, tra- pezius, complexus, and even the splenius and rotators, may be involved. For the simple cases, the drugs and measures already enumerated, with manipulations and the use of apparatus, are sufficient to effect a cure, and the prognosis in a large proportion of acute cases is favorable. Cases of structural shortening will usually require myotomy, while those of the intermittent variety not infrequently resist medication, myotomy, neurotomy, neurectasy, and even neurectomy. Young, Lovett,2 and others have shown that there is sometimes a curious rela- tion between ocular defects and torticollis. Permanent contractions of the sterno-mastoid are remediable by my- otomy of the sternal or clavicular divisions, or both; and in severe cases by a similar section of the mastoid insertion. While open section under antiseptic precautions is the safer procedure, yet in females, in order to avoid a scar, the slight amount of risk involved by subcutaneous division is justifiable in mild cases. If a blunt-pointed tenotome is carefully carried close behind the rigid muscle, accident can scarcely occur. I have once only seen death occur, from septic pleurisy, when in the hands of a most dexterous operator an unusually high pleura was punctured. A very simple, but effective, dressing after myotomy consists of an axillary or thoracic belt, and a head bandage, the two connected by a rubber strap. Neurectomy.—The first excision of the spinal accessory nerve was per- formed in 1866 by Campbell de Morgan.3 He made his incision at the posterior border of the muscle, and having found the trapezia] branch traced it back until the main trunk was visible. Noble Smith 4 has collected much valuable material in regard to this operation, and Bowlbv 5 relates a number of cases; Smith employs an incision ante- rior to the sterno-mastoid, as it permits a more certain division of all the nerve filaments. Simple neurotomy is not advisable, since even the removal of a half-inch of nerve has been non-productive of relief. A certain amount of atrophy and paralysis must necessarily follow an ex- cision. The centre of either an anterior or a posterior incision should be about opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, or a little above the 1 Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1891, p. 30. 5 Ibid., vol. i., p. 46; vol. ii.. p. 230. 3 Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Review, vol. xxxviii., 1866. 4 Spasmodic Wry-neck, p. 55. London, 1891. 6 Injuries and Diseases of the Nerves. 1893.