112 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. generally in death, every effort is made to protect them against septic inflammation, and, as far as may be possible, to remove irritating for- eign bodies, and by drainage to lessen intracranial pressure. The high mortality rate of these lesions is due to shock, to hemor- rhage, and to suppurative inflammation of the brain and its meninges. Shock cannot but be great, since, in addition to the damage done in the direct track of the bullet, the physical conditions are those most favorable to the development of strong hydraulic pressure, to wit, an unyielding bony case containing a semi-fluid mass. At short range the cranial comminution may be very extensive, particularly in the tem- poral and frontal bones, and especially in the orbital plates of the lat- ter; and the destructive action of hydraulic pressure when the new bullet is employed has been experimentally demonstrated in wounds produced at a range of even from 600 to 800 yards. Blood extravasations and serous effusions do harm chiefly through the pressure they produce; and in proportion as a way of escape is provided the damage from these fluids is lessened. Infection of the damaged parts may readily occur through organisms introduced at the time of the injury, finding entrance at a later date along the shot track—or, in basal lesions, through the ear, the mouth or the nose—or carried in the blood-stream to develop in the clot, the effusion, or the exudate. The recent changes in treatment can have no effect in diminishing shock; but they can have and have had not a little in preventing or relieving pressure symptoms, and in keeping out pyogenic organisms or counteracting their influence. They render it possible also to re- move with safety most if not all of the l3one fragments along the track of the ball, and often the ball itself, and thus avoid not only the im- mediate effects of the pressure of foreign bodies, but also the later mental disturbances which have not seldom shown themselves in indi- viduals who have for months or even years been apparently well. Though recovery may and at times does take place when no active treatment has been instituted, surgeons are now generally in accord in believing that the entrance wound should be thoroughly exposed, the opening of the skull enlarged by the application of the trephine, the track explored—and for this purpose a long, light, bulbous-ended alumi- num probe is the best instrument—the ball, if reached, extracted, bone fragments removed, free drainage secured, and rigid antisepsis maintained. Devitalized tissue along the track of the wound may be scraped away, and if necessary a counter-opening with the trephine should be made. Though it is highly desirable that the bullet should be removed when it can be readily found and safely taken away, a counter-opening if necessary being made for the purpose, yet if the ball cannot be easily located—and often it will not when buried in the brain— extended search should not be made for it. Seldom will one be as fortunate as Flulirer was, in 1881, when after tracking the missile through two counter-openings he was able to extract it and have his patient recover. If at a later period suppurative inflammation shows itself, the adoption of antiseptic treatment as thorough as possible—irrigation ‘and drainage being its most essential parts—may relieve the condition, though the chances of saving life will not be great.