INFECTIOUS OSTEOMYELITIS. 455 of which osteoblasts are to be seen. Below the periosteum, new bone is deposited, and is characterized by having bone corpuscles larger than those of the old bone, and more irregularly arranged. While bone is being formed on one side, on the other, in consequence of in- flammation, lacunae are formed in the old bone, and it contains at cer- tain points, grooves and furrows—the so-called lacunae of Howship— which contain large giant cells with multiple corpuscles (osteoclasts). The investigations of Ullmann in regard to the changes in the medulla indicate that they are the same in every form of infectious osteomyelitis, no matter how it is occasioned. These changes consist in a remarkable multiplication of cells like the white blood corpuscles, and of white cells containing red globules, or pigment granules. With this, there is a diminution of the red cells, and a peculiar change in the giant cells, with an enlargement and multiplication of the connec- tive-tissue cells. The increase in white corpuscles is absolute, as well as relative. Ullmann found them in from four to six times the normal number, and Schede calls attention to the excess of leucocytes, which, in some cases, amounts to an absolute leucaemia. Symptoms of Acute Infectious Osteomyelitis.—The symptoms of an outbreak of acute infectious osteomyelitis are those which mark the outbreak of most infectious diseases. That is, there is a rise of temperature, with the signs of disordered circulation—consisting in this case of suffusion of the face with a rapid and small pulse—a coated tongue, digestive disturbances, and sometimes a foetid diarrhoea. The evidences of general systemic poisoning are seen in these symptoms, and, in more severe cases, in the occurrence of delirium, and even of coma and death. The local symptoms are those of a painful, inflamma- tory process. There is a deeply seated swelling, to be felt along the line of the bone, usually from the neighborhood of the epiphysis to the middle third. A little later, over this swelling, dull redness of the skin may be found, and possibly deeply seated fluctuation. When the joint is involved, the symptoms of pain, swelling, and elevation of temper- ature are often found here also. In some cases, the joint pains are so much more conspicuous than those of the diapliysis, that osteomyelitis has been mistaken for rheumatism. If the swelling caused by osteo- myelitis be incised, pus will be evacuated, characterized by the presence of large fat drops, derived from the medulla. A finger in- troduced detects the bone deprived of its periosteum, and sometimes a separation of the epiphysis from the diaphysis. In osteomyelitis, the infection may be transferred to other parts of the body, and especially to the lungs, at first by infarcts of fat coming from the disorganized bone, and afterward by septic products, causing metastatic abscesses. Such abscesses may occur in the lungs, the kid- neys, the pericardium, or the pleura. This is the history of a severe case of osteomyelitis. But the type may be milder, in varying degrees, until it appears comparatively light. Secondary outbreaks may occur in other bones than the one first af- fected, and, as we have seen before, even the same bone may give evi- dence of secondary infection at a distance from other points of mani- festly earlier infection. These different points of infection may not all