47 WOUND-TEE ATM ENT. although adopted by a few, has never found general favor. It is very efficient, but rather complicated. Others have recommended that the hands should he rubbed with gly- cerin or lanolin as • a preliminary measure to sterilization, in order to soften the epidermis and make disinfection more effective. It does not seem that this plan has much to commend it. Kelly has lately de- scribed a method of hand-disinfection, based upon experiments, for which he claims superiority over the methods of Kiimmel and of Fuer- bringer. It is the following: The hands are scrubbed, with especial at- tention to the nails, in water of 104° F., which is frequently changed. The}r are then immersed in a solution of permanganate of potassium, made by adding an excess of the salt to boiling distilled water, until they are mahogany or black in color, when they are thrust into a saturated solution of oxalic acid until completely decolorized. The oxalic acid is finally removed by washing in distilled water. This method has been improved upon by immersion of the finger-tips, after the oxalic acid treatment, in peroxide of hydrogen, followed by a bath of the whole hands for three minutes in a solution of corrosive sublimate, 1-1000. Mikulicz thinks a combination of antiseptics more powerful than one alone. After cleansing the nails carefully, he washes the hands for three minutes with soap and water; then for half a minute in a 3-100 solution of carbolic acid, and finally in a sublimate solution, 1-2000. For laparotomies the strength of the carbolic lotion is raised to 1-20. The skin about the nails, more especially the subungual spaces, are rubbed with 10-per-cent, iodoform gauze, which has been moistened in 5-per-cent, carbolic acid. From all this experimental work, it will be somewhat difficult to select the safest and, at the same time, most convenient method. Several points have, however, been made clear by these investigations. It is insufficient to simply wash our hands in soap and water, even if this be repeated several times, giving them a final ablution in sterilized water. On the other hand, thorough washing with soap and water is the most important phase of disinfection. Not all hands permit of thorough disinfection with the same ease or difficulty. After each •operation the surgeon should wash his hands with soap and water before again disinfecting them with an antiseptic, previous to further surgical manipulations. Infected hands are more difficult to sterilize than hands which have not been in contact with infectious material for some time. Of all the methods, Fuerbringer’s seems to give suffi- cient guarantee of complete disinfection and to be the most simple in its application. Other parts of the body are less difficult to sterilize, if we except the cavities of the mouth, nose, rectum, and vagina, which cannot be ren- dered aseptic. To prepare a patient for operation, a bath, or a prolonged washing of the seat of operation with soap and water, if the former is out of the question, ought to be given some hours before, and the part should be shaved, not with a view of removing only the hairs, but also the su- perficial layers of epidermis, which enclose myriads of germs of every description. To assist in removing gross impurities the skin may now be rubbed with ether or alcohol, preferably, in my opinion, with the former. Next they should be covered with a moist antiseptic dressing {bichloride, 1-1000) which is only to be removed on the operating table.