DESTRUCTION OF BACTERIA BY AMCEBOID CELLS IN INFLAMMATION. 27 leucocytes, containing an enormous number of the bacilli more or less degenerated, and it was curious to see the small polynuclear leucocytes assembled in enormous numbers just at the points where their presence was useful. Finally, near the external surface of the section not a sin- gle bacillus could any longer be found. It was exceedingly important to know whether the second vaccine was still more enfeebled under the influence of the living fluids of the rabbit, and the following experiments were undertaken for this pur- pose. Fifteen centigrammes of the second vaccine were divided into three equal parts, and five were inoculated into a rabbit. An abso- lutely typical tumor developed in this animal, which disappeared grad- ually, and the animal completely recovered. A second portion (five centigrammes) of the vaccine was enclosed in filter-paper and placed under the skin of another rabbit. Twenty-four hours after, the wound was opened, and the paper cut in a way to permit the contents to es- cape in the tissues; the animal died forty-eight hours afterward of a typical symptomatic anthrax. The third portion of five centigrammes was introduced under the skin of a third rabbit in the same way. Forty-four hours afterward the paper was broken by pressure outside of the skin, and this animal died in twenty-four hours of symptomatic anthrax. Other experiments were undertaken to show that this result was not due to the fact that the virus had been introduced into a region enfeebled by the presence of the filter-paper. As the result of all, it was shown that in guinea-pigs, as in rabbits, the bacilli of sympto- matic anthrax develop as soon as they are introduced into the organ- ism, and that the leucocytes collect in the region where the virus is found; that the leucocytes are attracted by the chemical poison secreted by these bacteria, and that, once emigrated, they actively at- tack the organisms, englobe, and destroy them. It is to be remarked that the cellular emigration to the point of in- oculation varies inversely with the quantity and the strength of the virus introduced, but is proportional to the duration and benignity of the disease. The emigration of the leucocytes is feeble or negative when a large quantity of extremely virulent bacilli are injected, but becomes more marked when the inoculated bacilli are less numerous, or when they have been previously attenuated; further, if the leuco- cytes are prevented by any cause, mechanical or chemical, from reach- ing the virus, the disease makes progress, and the animal succumbs. The living fluids of an animal naturally refractory, or of an animal whose immunity has been reinforced by an anterior inoculation, have no bactericidal action upon the virus of symptomatic anthrax, since this virus, bathed in its fluids, if taken out and again injected into a refractory animal, produces its death; finally, the fluids of a diseased animal appear to have no attenuating or bactericidal action upon the bacterium of the same disease. What has been said upon cellular emigration cannot in anjr way be applied to exudation, another phenomenon accompanying inflammation. The two processes appear to be almost in inverse relation, as can be seen by comparing, for example, the sanguineous exudation of a rabbit, dying in twelve hours after inoculation with the bacillus Chau- voei, and the thick, compact, almost solid substance that accumulates about the virus inoculated in a refractory animal. It appears to be