TUMORS. 232 These scattered cases show that there is a real danger in allowing benign tumors to grow without attention. They should be removed in patients whose health will enable them to bear an operation, and if they cause pain, or grow rapidly, or ulcerate, they should be treated like malignant growths. Certainly no one would now irritate warts or papillomata, or obstinate ulcers, by the slight caustic applications once so popular. Butlin’s advice to excise all chronic ulcers of the tongue is judicious, for when the wounds are closed by sutures they heal rapidly, and there can be no doubt that those ulcers form the starting-point for malignant disease. The advantage of operating upon benign tumors was strikingly shown in a case of my own:— A woman of 48 years, with a family history of several members being af- flicted with tumors of various kinds, had a small fatty growth on the back of the thigh, which had been there for nine years to her knowledge, and had never given her any trouble except some slight pain, apparently due to its pressure upon the sciatic nerve over the course of which it lay. I removed the tumor, which was partly subfascial, and sent it to the pathologist in the routine way, supposing it to be an ordinary lipoma; and was greatly surprised to receive from him the report that in its centre lay two lymph nodes the size of small peas, which had shown under the microscope typical carcinomatous changes. Unfor- tunately the patient was lost sight of when discharged, but a thorough general examination while in hospital gave no clue to any primary disease elsewhere, and she appeared to be in perfect health. Teratomata. (Dermoid Cysts. Branchiogenic Cysts. Odontomata.) Including under the head of teratomata all those tumors which are due to some perversion or error in foetal development, we must consider with teratoma in the limited sense those congenital cysts which arise from the branchiogenic clefts, from any of the foetal ducts, or from any remnants of foetal tissue, and the odontomata as well. Branchiogenic cysts arise from fragments of the epithelium covering the branchial arches, which should properly disappear with their coales- cence. If this coalescence is incomplete, there are left small cavities lined with epithelium, and from the continued growth and secretion of these cells they are distended so as sometimes todorm large cysts. Some- times this failure to unite occurs in such a way as to leave a complete passage through the soft parts from the skin to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, forming a congenital fistula. These fistube may be closed at one end, either the internal or the external. Sometimes when closed at one end by inflammation or operation, the deeper parts will form a cyst, which is then really branchiogenic although not congenital. Gussenbauer relates a case of this kind, in which the patient was ac- customed to keep open the cutaneous opening of a cervical fistula which was closed internally, by passing into it a small splinter of wood. This piece of wood became lost inside of the fistula one day without the pa- tient’s knowledge, and the external opening closed over it. Twenty-four years subsequently Gussenbauer operated for the cyst which had formed by the dilatation of this closed fistula, and found the piece of wood con-