OPHTHALMOSCOPIC DISEASES. G93 outlets of nutritive fluids are affected, but in the hemorrhagic form the retinal vessels. It is a general disease in which the eye participates; not a true glaucoma, but a local affection, the expression of a par- ticular general condition. Excavations of the nerve and narrowing of tne field on the nasal side are not common.' Treatment.—The only hope of successfully combating the disease is to treat it vigorously during the “hemorrhagic period,” and as Eisley says, “our care must first be devoted to the general condition of the patient, and second, ‘to remove the congestion of the eyeball.’” As the condition is that of general arterio-sclerosis, the patient must be carefully watched as to diet, occupation, and rest. Potassium iodide and bromide are frequently used, as are also iodide of iron and bichlo- ride of mercury. When there is albumin in the urine Eisley advises Basham's mixture with corrosive sublimate added, and avoids the iodine salts, and when there is turgidity of the choroidal circulation and head- ache he has employed ergot with good results. Malarial poisoning should be treated by quinine and arsenic.1 2 Weak solutions of eserine may be of use and plain smoked glasses give comfort. Stilling and de Schweinitz have recommended chloral for its action in reducing tension. When “the period of confirmed glaucoma” has set in, enucle- ation is the only known means of relief. Ophthalmoscopic Diseases. Affections of the Vitreous.—Intra-ocular diseases and distur- bances can only be diagnosed with certainty by aid of the ophthalmo- scope, and, passing the lens, the vitreous comes next for inspection. When clear and transparent, acute diseases of the choroid may gener- ally be excluded, and at times retinal diseases, but retinitis may exist without vitreous opacity. The vitreous is rarely primarily affected, but becomes so from lesions of the surrounding parts. Vitreous opacities are of various kinds. The large, irregularly shaped bodies that float about with the movements of the eye, or at times remain compara- tively quiet, are the results of retinal hemorrhage. The dust-like opacities seen when the eye is suddenly moved, indicate choroiditis (syphilitic), while general opacity with string-like bands indicates an inflammation that has involved the ciliary body, choroid, and retina. In cases of myopia of high grade, vitreous opacities from choroidal involvement are frequent. Bodies that project into the vitreous may be detached portions of the retina, tumors, or collections of pus. Foreign bodies may, at times be detected by the ophthalmoscope, but in old cases are usually encapsulated. Synchisis scintillans is a condi- tion of the vitreous in which it appears to be full of falling stars, and this is due to the presence of cholesterin crystals. • Treatment.—The blood from retinal hemorrhages usually disappears without any special treatment, though small doses of mercury will no doubt hasten the absorption. Opacities caused by syphilis are usually absorbed under the influence of mercury and iodide of potassium. 1 Valude and Dubief (translated by A. A. Hubbell for Ophthal. Record, from Annales d’Oculistique, Aout, 1892). 2 University Medical Magazine, November, 1893.