DISEASES OF BRA1X FROM SUPPURATIVE DISEASE OF MIDDLE EAR. 595 which the diagnosis was only made after death. He tabulates 10 other •cases in which the diagnosis was made during life, in which 8 patients recovered after operation. No comment upon such figures is necessary. (4) Cerebral Abscess.— Nine-tenths of all cerebral abscesses lie again in the “dangerous region.” They are more commonly encapsulated than diffused. In 100 cases reported by Koeruer,1 62 occurred in the cerebrum, 32 in the cerebellum, and 6 in both. Diagnosis.—The otitis which causes cerebral abscess is almost always chronic. In 57 cases reported by Pitt," only two had existed for less than a year. There is usually a sudden cessation of the dis- charge, with an initial rise of temperature, nausea and vomiting, and dull pain in the mastoid region, radiating to the temples and the neck. The pulse becomes rapid, the tongue coated, and very often there is diar- rhoea. All this points to an acute septic infection engrafted on a long existing saprogenic suppuration. The headache or tenderness is often general, or frontal, and not located at the site of the lesion. After the initial rise the temperature falls to the normal, or more commonly be- comes sub-normal. The pulse becomes very slow, often falling to 30 or 40. The intellect becomes dull and sluggish and the hebetude gradually deepens into coma. The bowels are apt to be constipated, the breath fetid, and the skin muddy, while rapid emaciation is a marked symptom. Optic neuritis is of value if present, but is often absent. The localizing symptoms, as shown either by localized convulsions, paresis or paralysis, aphasia, etc., if present, are of the greatest value. The state of the pupil is not commonly a reliable symptom. The contents of these abscesses vary much in character, being in some cases a thick, greenish, and exceedingly fetid pus, and in others a thin, pale, odorless fluid, which is scarcely purulent. Differential Diagnosis between Cerebral and Cerebellar Abscess. ■—The distinction between these is extremely difficult, but equally im- portant, if it can be made, since upon it depends whether we shall tre- phine and explore the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or the cerebellum. In case the diagnosis cannot be made with reasonable certainty it is always best to explore first the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and, if no abscess is found, then immediately to explore the cerebellum. Possibly tender- ness on percussion over the site of the abscess may guide us, although spontaneous pain is of very little worth. Vertigo is apt to be present in both conditions, but the want of co-ordination in cerebellar cases is rarely present, and from the mental hebetude and bedfast condition of the patient its presence often cannot be ascertained. Optic neuritis may be present in both forms. Disturbances of speech are of the greatest importance, since they point definitely to the third frontal con- volution, usually on the left side in right-handed persons. Similarly hemiplegia would point distinctly to the motor area of the cerebrum rather than to the cerebellum. Koerner mentions crossed facial paralysis as present in 2 out of 100 cases of cerebral abscess, but it was also present in one case of cerebellar abscess. Facial paralysis on the same side as the diseased ear is no indication of localizing value, since it is caused by a direct lesion of the seventh nerve as it passes through the aqueduct of Fallopius of the diseased ear itself, and has no relation to the cerebral or cerebellar abscess. 1 Arch, fur Ohrenheilkunde, Bd. xxix., S. 15. - Brit. Med. Jour., 1890, vol. i., p. 643.