INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 568 Intracranial Hemorrhage. Extra-Dural (Subcranial) Hemorrhage.—In addition to what I have urged in my previous article, I must again call attention to the fact that symptoms of pressure may be delayed for many days—even eleven—after the injury.1 This may he due to a renewed hemorrhage, or to the sudden yielding of brain function so often seen after long- persisting hemorrhagic or serous effusion, although no appreciable addition to the pressure occurs. The peculiarities of the hemiplegia met with in these cases are that at the onset it is partial, affecting per- haps only one centre, and that it progresses always by attacking adja- cent centres either above or below that primarily implicated. Thus the arm may be first involved, next the leg, and then, as the blood gravi- tates, the face may become affected, until finally, when the base is reached, the third nerve becomes first irritated and then paralyzed, pro- ducing the well-known pupillary symptoms. Moreover, when the patient is in a condition for it to be demonstrated, there is no sensory paralysis, this at once distinguishing the lesion from an apoplectic one, or from hemorrhage into the brain substance, the re- sult of laceration. Ferrier says that “ strictly cortical lesions of the mo- tor area do not cause amesthesia in any form, and it may be laid down as a rule, to which there are no exceptions, that if amesthesia is found along with the motor paralysis, the lesion is not limited to the motor zone, but implicates also, organically or functionally, the sensory tracts of the internal capsule or the centres to which they are distributed.” The practical bearing of the above sentences is admirably illustrated by a case of Mr. W. Thornley Stoker, from whose article I have transcribed the quotation.2 While the respiration is slow, stertorous, and, perhaps, very irregular, the pulse, although possibty slow at first, afterward becomes frequent, the result of indirect pressure producing paralysis of the vagus. The temperature is usually elevated, sometimes reaching 10-t° F., especially on the side opposite the clot. Treatment.—To emphasize what was urged in Vol. V., a mere pres- entation of the statistics of Weisemann is only requisite, these showing such vastly better results than I could demonstrate by my former statistics, that the position then taken is amply justified. Thus of 147 patients treated without operation, 131, that is, 89.1 per cent., died, while of 110 who were trephined, only 36, that is, 32.7 per cent., died, and in the fatal cases the autopsy demonstrated that if another opening had been made, the clot might have been reached and removed, and some probably would have recovered.3 These results have been obtained (1) by prompt operation, (2) by improved technique, and (3) by asepsis and drainage. Operation.—Although the clot is usually situated upon the side of injury, the trephine opening must not therefore necessarily be made there, unless the localizing symptoms warrant this site being selected; 1 Ransohoff reports a case where no symptoms appeared until the morning of the eighth day. Annals of Surgery, vol. xii., p. 116. 2 Annals of Surgery, vol. vii., p. 401. 3 Ueber die Indicationen zur Trepanation mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung, etc., Deutsche Zeitschrift f. Chirurg., Bd. xxi. undxxii., 1885.