INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. 784 by the bilateral swelling, and an almost complete closure of the glottis may occur. In infraglottic oedema the mucous membrane of the upper part of the trachea appears as two swollen tumors, largely blocking up the lumen of the trachea, and producing more or less dyspmcea, ac- cording to the amount of the tumefaction. In oedema of the epiglottis this part assumes a rounded, swollen appearance. The natural contours of the epiglottis are lost, and it appears as a grayish swollen tumor. When the oedema is excessive it may largely close the larynx, and if this occurs in conjunction with oedema of the ary-epiglottidean folds, respiration may be almost entirely prevented. Etiology.—Acute inflammatory oedema occurring in phlegmonous laryngitis must be considered in connection with the primary disease. Like other diseases of the air-tract the most frequent cause is exposure to humid cold and the vicissitudes of the weather. A weakened con- dition of the system is an undoubted factor in favoring the development of the disease. It occurs rarely as a primary condition of the larynx; more frequently it is consecutive to a phlegmonous inflammation of the pharynx. Occasionally it is seen as a secondary affection in a sub- acute inflammation of the larynx, due to tuberculosis, syphilis, or can- cer. but in these diseases the chronic form of the affection is more common. It has occurred as a complication in erysipelas, small-pox, and typhoid fever. Occasionally it results from traumatism, either by a foreign body or by some external penetrating wound. The swal- lowing of caustic fluids and the inhalation of irritating vapors have been known to produce it. Chronic Inflammatory (Edema.—Chronic inflammatory oedema is seen most frequently in connection with diseases of the larynx which have a constitutional origin. Laryngeal phthisis, tuberculosis, and syphilis are most frequently the causes, and it adds largel}' to the dis- tress and gravity of these affections. It also occurs in connection with diseases of the cartilaginous articulations, especially in the crico-arytenoid joint. Its extent rarely is as great as that of acute oedema, and is frequently limited to the tissues about the affected joint. It may arise as a primary condition, or may be connected with necrosis or caries of the cartilage. The oedema in these cases is caused by a sero-purulent infiltration of the tissue. Simple Serous (Edema.—A simple serous oedema, or oedema in which the mucous membrane and connective tissue are infiltrated with pure serum, is always secondary to conditions which interfere with the venous circulation. It is found in all those conditions in which dropsi- cal effusions occur in different parts of the body. It has been observed in acute and chronic Bright's disease, in heart disease as a result of weakened or dilated right ventricle, and also in cases in which pressure is exerted on the laryngeal, thyroid, or innominate veins, or on the de- scending cava. De Barv (Gottstein) notes a case of scarlet fever com- plicated with nephritis, and B. Frankel cites one in which laryngeal dropsy was the only evidence of effusion. McKenzie considers it very rare in Bright’s disease, as, after having examined two hundred cases, oedema of the larynx was not found in a single instance.