537 BONES OF THE LEG—ANKLE-JOINT. tion of complete excision of the patella is necessarily attended by con- siderable risk, and seems to me to have but a limited held of application. Bones of the Leg.—Beside the case referred to in Vol. III., page 561, of resection of the tibia and fibula for deformity, I have operated in two cases of anterior curvature from rachitis (cuneiform osteotomy) —in one of these cases three times—and twice for non-union following the same procedure. I have also successfully excised the entire shaft of the tibia in a case of acute necrosis, rapid reproduction of bone tak- ing place from the periosteal sheath, and the patient making an excel- lent recovery. In another case I removed about one-third of the shaft; also with good results. The operation for rachitic curvature I have found disappointing, for although union as a rule occurs without diffi- culty, and the leg appears straight and firm, the deformity is apt to recur (^on account of the morbid condition of the bones), and in a few years may be as marked as before the operation. To prevent this, if possible, the patient should be required to wear a firm artificial support long after consolidation appears to be complete, should take such reme- dies as cod-liver oil and phosphorus, and should be placed in such hy- gienic conditions as may assist in eradicating the disease. Ankle-Joint.—Excision of the ankle I have practised in 13 cases, as shown in the annexed table, two patients having died some months after the operation, two having submitted to subsequent am- putation (successful), and nine having recovered without further inter- ference, one of these, however, having a sinus still persisting when last Table of Thirteen Cases of Excision of the Ankle. No. Sex, age, aud date. Nature of affection for which operation was required. Result. Remarks. 1 Male, 3J, 1875 Caries of ankle-joint Died Death in 4 months from phthisis. Wound did well. Children’s Hos- pital. 2 Male, 20, 1880 Chronic arthritis do. Death in 9 months from phthisis. University Hospital. • Children’s Hospital. 3 Male, child, 1885 do. Recovered 4 Female, child, 1888 Caries; sinuses do. University Hospital. 5 Male, 10, 1888 Caries do. Pennsylvania Hospital. 6 Male, adult, 1888 Compound fracture and dis- location do. Useful limb. Pennsylva- nia Hospital. 7 Male, adult, 1888 Compound fracture and dis- location do. Useful limb. University Hospital. 8 Female, adult, 1889 Caries do. Disease recurred and leg amputated 16 months afterward. University Hospital. 9 Male, child, 1889 Necrosis do. University Hospital. 10 Male, adult, 1890 Caries do. Sinus persisted. Univer- sity Hospital. 11 Male, adult, 1890 do. do. Disease recurred and leg amputated 4 months af- terward. Pennsylvania Hospital. 12 Male, adult, 1890 Gelatinous arthritis do. Pennsylvania Hospital. 13 Male, 40, 1890 Compound fracture do. Useful limb. University Hospital