TUMORS. 242 others developed in the epigastrium and in the hypogastrium, and two other symmetrical pairs along the spine. Seven months subsequently, three symme- trical tumors were found in each clavicular and one in each scapular region, as well as a tumor over each deltoid, which, however, proved to be a true hyper- trophy of the muscle. The neuropathic symptoms persisted. French authors have reported of late years a number of cases of symmetrical lipomata developing in neuropathic individuals, frequently associated with a rheumatic diathesis (Mathieu): Potaiu reports an interesting case in an old man who already bore several symmetrical tumors, and in whom, after exposure to cold and dampness, a new one suddenly appeared in the upper part of the thigh with the symptoms of a chill and intense pain, swelling at once to the size of an orange, but afterwards subsiding to one-third of its original dimensions. A portion removed by a trocar in the acute stage showed a very cedematous fatty tissue, but autopsy a short time afterward proved all of the tumors to be ordinary lipomata. Potain assumes that the neoplasm began in a sudden localized oedema which afterwards became an organized lipoma, but distinguishes sharply between this form of tumor and the local organized oedema described by other authors, in which the fatty tissue is not so characteristic of lipoma. These symmetrical multiple tumors are frequently diffuse. We have already seen that trauma can produce a lipoma, whether from a single injury or by long pressure and friction, and this is held to be the reason why in the rather rare cases of lipoma of the hand it is almost always the right hand and the palmar region that are affected. Grosch in a careful study of a large number of cases (over 700) of solitary lipoma, partly from the Dorpat clinic and partly from recorded histories, found that the distribution of these growths corresponded with that of the subcutaneous fat (except that they were rare on the abdomen), and varied inversely with that of the sebaceous and other glands of the skin. In the palm, in spite of the absence of sebaceous glands, lipoma is rare, but the sweat glands present enable Grosch to maintain his rule. Stoll, in a study of one hundred and thirty-nine cases, confirms this statement almost absolutely. On this interesting fact Grosch bases the crude theory that because the fat in the blood cir- culating to the skin is not excreted by the glands, it accumulates in the shape of adipose tissue. But it appears to be far more suggestive to associate this distribution of lipoma with the symmetrical occurrence of lipoma in neurotic individuals, making both depend upon the inner- vation of these peculiar regions. One might also bring this observa- tion into connection with Colmheim’s theory, for if the development of cutaneous glands and that of lipomata follow the same distribution throughout the body, it would appear that both are under some com- mon law of development and therefore it might be asserted that the foetal remnants which go to form tumors of this sort are found to oc- cur in some less haphazard fashion than is now generally supposed. In other words, it is not surprising to find such undoubted foetal produc- tions as dermoid cysts occurring as they7 do in certain places where there is always some anatomical or mechanical reason to expect them, but it is more difficult to understand why foetal remnants should occur scat- tered all over the body without any systematic distribution, as according to Cohnheim’s theory must usually be imagined; and this correspond-