213 ETIOLOGY. embryonic period, scattered through all the layers, evidently survi- vals of that time of regeneration and unusually active reproduction. Struck with the resemblance between the occurrence of these isolated persistent early cells and what he fancied must be the condition hy- pothetically described by Cohnheim, he examined many specimens of normal frog-embryos, with the result of finding in one of them, in which the medullary canal had already closed, eight such persistent cells dis- tributed among the three foetal layers. But even if this theory is well grounded, it does not properly explain all the facts in regard to neo- plasms, especially the occurrence of many cases in which epithelial malignant growths have been observed to start directly from normal epithelium with no sign of misplaced tissue. The only other of the older theories which enter into competition with Cohnheim’s, are those of Klebs, and of Thiersch and Waldeyer, who attempted to account for epithelial and malignant growths. Vir- chow, at the time of publishing “Die krankhaften Geschwiilste,” had supposed that epithelial cells might develop from any indifferent cells, originating even in the connective-tissue structures, and ascribed the origin of carcinoma to these cells. Klebs admitted that the carcinoma must in the first place originate in the epithelium, but imagined that this abnormal growth was due to a union with the epithelium of wan- dering leucocytes which were taken up into, or impregnated, the epithe- lial cells, comparing the process to the fecundation of the ovum by the semen in ordinary generation. But before Klebs made this attempt to combine Virchow’s old theory with the new dictum of biology, that like begets like, and that epithelium cannot originate from connective-tissue cells, Thiersch and Waldeyer, entirely abandoning the old notions and accepting the newer ideas, had sought to explain the origin of epithelial growths by a loss of the physiological balance between the epithelial layers and their connective-tissue basement membrane. Thiersch had observed that, in the aged, the epithelial structures of the lip prepon- derated over the connective tissue, as compared with their proportions earlier in life, owing to an atrophy of the connective tissue. It is gen- erally admitted as a physiological fact that there is a sort of pressure exerted on the parts beneath by the epithelial layers of the body, and as long as this is evenly distributed and evenly met by the resistance of the basement connective tissue, a balance is preserved between the two, and they maintain their normal structure and relations. But if this balance should be disturbed, either by unusual activity of epithelial growth or by atrophy of the connective tissue, the epithelial cells would insinuate themselves into the interstices of the latter, and then grow in branching processes like widespreading roots. The unknown cause of all this abnormal activity is probably identical with the ultimate cause of malignant growths, which we are still seeking. We know that trau- matism, either momentary or in the shape of long-continued irritation, will sometimes cause this epithelial overgrowth, but in many cases traumatism and irritation are entirely absent, so that we are led to conclude that it can only be a predisposing rather than an efficient cause. Scliuchardt and Karg have recently dwelt upon the difficulty of ob- taining opportunities to study epithelial growths early enough in their development to ascertain the actual beginning of the process. Schu-