65 WOUND-TREATMENT. surfaces, and, if covered by a piece of protective silk, organizes in a few weeks, providing no infection has occurred. Scliede applied the principle herein involved to resections of all the joints with the excep- tion of the hip, but more especially to the treatment of bone cavities, the result of operations for necrosis or tuberculosis, and of compound fractures, where a loss of substance, has resulted from comminution. He also employed the method where large defects in the soft parts after extirpation of tumors and other operations did not permit an exact approximation of the wound-surfaces. To apply the method properly, the cavity in the bone or the soft parts should be rendered entirely aseptic. If the integuments can be brought together by sutures, shut- ting off the cavity, this is done, leaving for the discharge of super- fluous blood, generally at the uppermost part of the wound, one or two openings which are covered with bits of protective silk. If sutures have not been used, the opening to the cavity is also covered with protec- tive, overlapping the edges to prevent evaporation of the blood in the cavity, and also to guard against absorption of the blood by the aseptic dressing, which is next applied. It is important that there should be enough blood to fill the cavity, but this should not be under any ten- sion. If success attends this plan of treatment, the first dressing may remain for from two to six weeks, when on removal complete union will be found, or the clot will have been transformed into cicatricial tissue. Tbe method is not, however, always successful. In rare cases, even if no infection has occurred, the blood does not coagulate, and does not, therefore, fulfil its purpose. In operations for necrosis of bone, also, where thorough asepsis cannot always mark the course of the surgeon’s work, owing to the infiltration of the surrounding bone with micro- organisms, failures are frequent. Then disorganization follows, and the bone-cavity must eventually be treated according to the old plan of tamponing and healing by granulation, and no further harm will result. In the treatment of tubercular bone affections, on the other hand, great care should be taken to remove all diseased tissue before healing beneath the moist blood-clot is attempted. Otherwise primary union may be followed by a recurrence of the old trouble, and a break- ing-down of the already organized clot. It is an especially difficult task to remove with certainty all tubercular material from a diseased hip. and resections of this joint have, therefore, never been considered suitable cases for healing beneath the moist clot. In operations where tendons have been exposed, and perhaps deprived of their sheaths, as is frequently the case on the dorsum of the hand, the method an- swers an excellent purpose; but it must not be assumed that divided nerves and tendons will re-unite without suturing more readily by this than by any other method of wound-treatment. I have frequently alluded to that form of wound-treatment, which, like the method of healing beneath the moist clot, aims at a reduction in the number of dressings and at total abolition of drainage, of which Neuber has been the main exponent. The means employed to attain these ends are exactly the reverse of those used in the method of Schede, just described. All hemorrhage is carefully arrested, and the formation of cavities within the sutured wound is scrupulously avoided, in the belief that close coaptation of wound-surfaces is the best guar- antee for rapid and undisturbed healing. According to the location of VOL. vti.—5 *