INFLAMMATION. 30 surface of the needle track. On plates of one-per-cent, agar-agar and two-per-cent, gelatin, it develops as very small colonies in the interior of the mass, with larger ones upon the surface, of a grayish color. In the former, the small colonies under the microscope appear round or slightly irregular, finely granular, and of a yellowish-brown color. The superficial colonies have a yellowish-brown nucleus, surrounded by a more transparent zone. There is no growth upon potato, and a very slight colorless growth upon blood serum. There is no development at the room temperature; it only grows at the temperature of the body. It quickly loses its power of development in artificial cultures at the end of six days, and it is best to transfer it once in two days. It stains best with Loffier’s alkaline methylene-blue, but does not stain by Gram’s method; it is pathogenic for mice, guinea-pigs, rabbits, and dogs. (7) An organism, the power of which in the human tissues has not yet been definitely settled, but which is found in the human secre- tions, is the Micrococcus Tetragonus; it is commonly found in the lung cavities affected with pulmonary tuberculosis, and is reasonably sup- posed to produce the puriform discharge from such cavities. It occurs in pairs, or fours, and is lion-motile. On gelatin plates it grows as small white colonies, which under a low power appear finely granular, with a glossy look. In needle punctures, its development is not along the whole of the needle track, hut occurs in isolated colonies that are sharply defined, milky white, or yellowish in appearance. On agar- agar it grows in rounded separate white colonies; on potato, as a thick slimy layer, which can he lifted up in long shreds; and on blood serum as a white, moist, irregular layer. It grows best at room temperature, slowly, is not known to produce spores, is facultatively anaerobic, does not produce gas, and is non-liquefying. It may he stained by any of the usual aniline dyes, as well as by Gram's double stain. There are a large number of other bacteria which have been found in man, and which have been shown to possess pathogenic powers in the lower animals in the way of producing inflammatory changes and suppuration, but their number is so great that those spoken of must serve as examples,' and the reader is referred for a full list and descrip- tion to the Bakteriologische Diagnostik, of Eisenberg (1891), or to the Manual of Bacteriology, by Sternberg (1892). That the bacteria named are not all of those concerned in the pro- duction of inflammatory or suppurative changes, is well shown by the experiments of Condamin,1 in which he speaks of a case of multiple suppuration consecutive to a suppurative otitis, which presented char- acters different from those usually observed. The otitis developed sud- denly during the course of influenza, and rapidly culminated in perfo- ration of the tympanum, having been preceded by severe sore throat. Two days later the patient’s temperature was high, and he had several rigors. An abscess developed on the back of his right hand, which was opened two days afterward. From this time a series of abscesses occurred in different parts of the body, all subcutaneous and running a rapid course. From fifteen to eighteen of these, at least, were observed, and in each case cultivations from them developed FrdnkeVs Pneumobacillus in a state of purity. The common character of all 1 Lyon Medical, 7 Fev., 1892.