AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. 975 2. To prevent bleeding an elastic cord should be tightly applied around the root of the tumor before the removal of the bandage, and secured in position by tying with tapes to a waist belt. 3. Recurrence occurs if diseased tissue is left behind; therefore, even though the prepuce appear healthy, it should be removed close to the corona, and the V-shaped incision should be extended into the perineum to the verge of the anus. Transplanted skin should be taken from the abdomen or thighs, and not from the neck of the tumor; but a satisfac- tory result may in all cases be secured without flaps. 4. The first step consists in decorticating the penis. A director is introduced into the prepuce, which is slit up, and an incision is made from the root of the penis to this cut. The penis is then freed by the finger and knife up to the suspensory ligament, which must not be injured. A longitudinal incision is next made from the pubes to the fundus of the tumor, over one cord and testis. This is dissected out and confided to an assistant while the other is similarly dealt with. The three longitudinal incisions are now connected at their pubic ter- minations by two transverse cuts, which must be beyond the limits of the diseased tissue, and a circular incision is made around the rest of the neck of the tumor, when the mass is removed. The largest vessels will be found in the centre of the perineum and on each side of the pubes. The elastic cord should be gradually relaxed. Thirty to forty ligatures will be required. 5. The testes may be stitched together with catgut and fastened in depressions, or pockets, made by separating the deep layer of the super- ficial perineal fascia from the subjacent fat and areolar tissue. 6. To prevent suppuration, thorough irrigation with carbolic or sublimate lotion, and dusting with iodoform, should be employed. Excoriations should be covered with boric-acid ointment. Epithelioma of the Scrotum.—In Vol. VI. of this work Mr. Royes Bell stated, in reference to chimney-sweep’s cancer, that it was be- coming a curiosity in his country (England). Lately the subject has been again agitated by Mr. Butlin in a carefully prepared article in the British Medical Journal for 1892. After describing the different methods pursued by chimney-sweeps in various countries, and thereby showing that the disease is most frequent where the workers are the least cleanly, he expresses the opinion that it is not decreasing. Mr. Jacobson 1 on the contrary, from an examination of the records of Guy’s Hospital, holds that it is decreasing, and attributes this to the greater cleanliness of workers in soot. In America the disease is very rare. Professor Ashhurst had a case, however, which occurred in a worker in a gas-works. Amputation of the Penis. In consequence of the rapid progress which the belief in .the local origin of carcinomatous affections is making, there seems to be a ten- dency to the performance of more extensive operations in malignant disease than were formerly thought justifiable. Dr. Meyer2 holds that 1 Op. cit., p. 559. 2 Annals of Surgery, vol. xx., p. 179.