155 TREATMENT OF RACHITIS. and producing firmer bone. He says that under the influence of phosphorus the large marrow spaces diminish by the formation of true bone to the size of the Haversian canals in normal hone. According to Wegner, the administration for a lengthened period to the older fowls of finely divided, non-poisonous doses of phosphorus, produced, to a considerable extent, the conversion of cancellous into compact hone, having the normal chemical composition. Kassowitz lias recently promulgated his views at some length on the pathology and treatment of rachitis. He says 1 that lime salts are not needed, since the ordi- nary food contains sufficient lime, and that the farinaceous foods should not be restricted. He adds that phosphorus in small doses restricts the formation of vessels in the growing hones of small animals. Hence it is useful as a means of overcoming the hypersemia. Kassowitz ad- ministers about j-g-g- of a grain in a teaspoonful of cod-liver oil, the dose of course varying according to the age of the infant. The distin- guished paediatrist of Vienna, Dr. Widerhofer, says of this remedy that its employment impresses him with the belief that it is not with- out benefit in the second year of life and upward. He thinks that it may be useful in the hardening of long bones, but he has not been able to obtain good results in craniotabes." Starker gives an analysis of 23 rachitic cases treated by Professor Thomas, of Freiberg, in his Clinic. He used the following formula: Phosphorus, 1 centigramme (about Y grain); cod-liver oil, 100 grammes (about 3 fluidounces). A coffee- spoonful, probably about 1 fluidrachm, was administered twice daily, but variations in the dose according to the age are not mentioned in the report, the patients being between the ages of a few months and four years. Improvement occurred in the general condition in 18 cases, in the cranial development in 15 cases, in dentition in II cases, in the shapes of the epiphyses in 21 cases, and in locomotion in 17 cases; but strict attention was also bestowed upon the hygiene, and especially upon the diet. Soltmann says that good results occurred from the use of .phospho- rus in 70 cases, which he had under observation, and in no instance were unfavorable effects noticed. W. Meyer obtained similar results in 12 cases. He regards phosphorus as a specific for rachitis. When properly given, it always, he says, produces positive results. Peterson has treated 200 cases with phosphorus, and regards it as a specific. Sigel concludes from the observation of forty cases in private practice that constitutional treatment is of the greatest importance, but instead of tbe administration of iron, lime, etc., phosphorus should be pre- scribed. Unruh also made many observations in the treatment of rachitic cases by phosphorus in the Dresden Hospital in 1885 and 1886, and considers it more efficacious than other remedies. Toplitz, of Bres- lau, treated 518 cases with phosphorus combined with cod-liver oil. No ill effects were observed, and in all the cases improvement occurred in the general condition. Of 208 cases of craniotabes, 176 were cured in eight weeks. In 58 cases of laryngismus stridulus the attacks ceased in from eight to fourteen days, after having continued for months under other forms of treatment. Dentition was also promoted.3 In America, Wiener med. Wochen., Nov. 28, 1889. 2 Munch, med. Woch. 3 Dr. Vineberg, in New York Med. Jour., 1887.