747 AFFECTION'S OF THE JAWS. catarrh. As in these cases the submucous connective tissue gradually disappears, the disease has been designated atrophic pharyngitis. Internal administration as well as topical application of cubebs or of ammonium muriate may palliate the affection. In order to keep the mouth closed during sleep and thus prevent dryness of the fauces, it is advised to hold the jaws together at night with a bandage. Tumors of the Pharynx.—While tumors of the pharynx are rare in their occurrence, instances are recorded in which the various forms of lipoma, papilloma, fibroma, and chondroma have been observed. The most usual varieties are the adenoma, sarcoma, and carcinoma. Adenoma appears most frequently in the shape of vegetations covering the roof and sides of the pharynx, which give rise to constant hawking, and sometimes to difficulty of hearing and of articulation. Inspection of the pharynx will reveal the growths when they extend below the palatal arch, and by the aid of the pharyngeal mirror they may be seen when seated above this point. In mild cases they may be removed by the application of a dilute solution of nitrate of silver. When firm they may require the use of scissors, Volkmann’sspoon, or the galvanic cautery. Carcinoma of the pharynx is usually associated with disease of adjacent structures. When a large surface is involved but little can be accom- plished for relief by operative procedures. When the disease is limited to the lateral or posterior portion of the pharynx, sub-hyoidean pliaryn- gotomy may be successfully performed. In one case Billroth removed the pharynx, part of the oesophagus, and the entire larynx except the epiglottis, part of the trachea, and the thyroid gland. The patient died at the end of six weeks from the accidental passage of a sound into the mediastinum. Sarcoma of the round-celled variety invades the phar- ynx, and may be removed by operation through the mouth, or in graver cases by sub-hyoidean pharyngotomy. Retropharyngeal Tumors. —I have reported the successful removal of a sai’comatous tumor of the size of a lemon from the basilar portion of the occipital bone by the method of operation described by Cbeever, through the neck, with division of the lower jaw and incision of the pharynx; slight necrosis of the jaw followed. Affections of the Jaws. Alveolar abscess is defined to be an abscess at the apex of the root of a tooth, due to inflammation originating in the tissues of an exposed pulp and conveyed to the apex by continuity of structure. The tissues lining the walls of the alveolus and reflected on the root of the tooth, may become involved. The treatment in the early stage should be conducted by the dentist, and consists in the treatment of the diseased tooth by cleaning out the affected tissues of the pulp cavity and of the root canal, and by the use of antiseptic douches and packing with proper materials saturated with antiseptic agents. Treatment of this character often results in stopping the inflamma- tory action and saving the tooth, which, although dead, may be made useful by proper filling. When the tooth is very much diseased and its