DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 912 even in typical gonorrhoea, produced by inoculation with pure cultures, never exists independently of common pyogenic microbes. Upon this subject,1 Dr. G. Frank Lydston, of Chicago, says:— “ It is probable that in most of the joint, muscle, tendon, and other serious com- plications of gonorrhoea, other germs—or the products of other germs—than the gonococci, are responsible for the condition. The peri-urethral phlegmons and abscesses, the lymphangeitis, prostatic suppuration, acute cystitis, and acute in- flammation of the kidney, and in women the peritonitis which occurs in the course of gonorrhoea, are due, not to infection with the gonococcus per se, but to other germs or germ products which are associated with it. I do not know of a more typically mixed infection than gonorrhoea.” He further says: “Acute gonorrhoeal cystitis is much rarer than is usually supposed, for the reason that what passes for that disease is usually a posterior urethritis. This latter compli- cation of gouorrhcea mayor may not be due to the gonococcus per se. It is probable that the constant contact of the urine is a very important factor in pro- tecting the bladder from infection, as regards not only the gonococcus but the other pathogenic microbes which are associated with it. If the non-existence of a specific gonorrhoeal cystitis be established, it will certainly greatly modify the existing views regarding this much dreaded complication of gonorrhoea. Even prior to the discovery of the gonococcus it was supposed that the gonorrhoeal cystitis was due to specific infection—i.e., to the specific poison of the gonor- rhoeal process. Since the discovery of the gonococcus it has been supposed in some quarters that the gonococcus was an exciting cause of a complicating cystitis.” Du Mesnil2 denies that there is such a thing as specific gonorrhoeal cystitis. He claims that when gonococci are found in the urine they are accidental ingrafts upon the infectious process, having entered the bladder along with the purulent products of the urethral inflammation. They are not, according to him, new products developed from true specific inflammation of the vesical mucosa. It is conceivable that in women urethral or vaginal pus may get into the bladder in this manner, but, as a matter of fact, gonorrhoeal cystitis is relatively quite rare in women. Du Mesnil claims to have determined by recent researches that gon- ococci produce no alteration in the composition of urine, cystitis with ammoniacal urine never being produced by these germs. He claims, moreover, that the urine either renders the gonococci harmless or kills them completely. Recent researches with the cystoscope have been of some value in the study of the changes produced by acute inflammation. Finger, of Vienna, has made some very interesting cystoscopic studies of the pathological conditions of the bladder in so-called gonorrhoeal cystitis. According to this authority the mucous membrane is pathologically altered to a degree commensurate to the extent and intensity of the in- flammatory process. It is invariably most markedly altered toward the vesical neck. There is a distinct turgescence and reddening of the vesical mucosa, which is traversed by greatly dilated blood-vessels, and in very acute cases is dotted here and there with hemorrhagic areas in streaks or blotches. Sometimes the appearance is uniformly red. Lumpy collections of epithelium are to be seen here and there inter- 1 Transactions of the Southern Surgical and Gynaecological Association, 1892. 2 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 126, 1891.