(139) SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. BY F. FORCHHEIMER, M.D., PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY AND OF CLINICAL DISEASES OF CHILDREN IN THE MEDICAL COLLEGE OF OHIO, CINCINNATI, OHIO. Etiology and Pathology. With the discovery of the cause of tuberculosis by Koch, in 1882, the whole subject has assumed a different aspect. The acceptance of the bacillus tuberculosis as the primary cause of all tubercular processes, it matters not as to their nature or their locality, has given us an entity which makes superfluous most of the theorizing for which this broad subject has been noted. The work of Koch in this direction has been so broad, so fundamental, and so thorough, that it has not been found necessary to take away from it or add to it one iota, and subsequent observers have been able to verify fully all that he has done. As a result of the labors of Koch and his followers, it can be truly said that there exists neither animal nor plant whose characteristics or proper- ties are better understood by scientists than those of the bacillus tuber- culosis. While admitting this, gratefully and freely, it must be as freely admitted that the chapter on human tuberculosis has by no means been written to its end. It seems strange to look upon a dis- covery made but eleven years ago as in the light of remote history, but so much has been done since that time that such a view is warrantable. In the justifiable enthusiasm of that period so much was done with the bacillus, and so little regard paid to the human being, that many con- clusions were offered and accepted which, in the light of subsequent and cooler observation, had either to be amended or dropped; so that many over-cautious members of the profession were apt to look upon the whole subject of the bacillary origin of diseases with distrust. At the time of writing, however, the proofs originally required by Koch have been accepted as adequate, and the bacillus tuberculosis is univer- sally looked upon as the cause of the tubercular process. Sufficient time has elapsed to test these views in practice, which is, after all, the best testimony as to the value of any discovery, so that one of the greatest achievements of science, in any age, can be attributed to this century. The purely technical portion of the subject need not be discussed here; in these days it has become common property, and has been treated of in works especially devoted to bacteriology. The diagnostic value of the bacillus tuberculosis is established, and no practitioner considers his