456 DISEASES OF BONES. develop the same degree of severity. Ullmann cites a case of a child who, on one side, had a separation of the epiphysis of the humerus, and in the other only a thickening of the shaft of the corresponding bone. Roser reports a case of similar character. In such cases, there often remains an increase in the length of the bone which has not been affected to the point of suppuration. This increase is precisely that described by Ollier, dependent upon excitation of the physiological activity of the juxta-epiphyseal region. An interesting feature of osteomyelitis, from the clinical standpoint, is the occurrence. of recidives—later attacks—apparently due to the re- lease of some infectious material, until then locked up, or to the renewed activity of some such agent until then dormant. These attacks may, of course, be caused by new and unrecognized infections; but many authors hold to the idea of their dependence upon the first attack, rather than upon an obvious predisposition to osteomyelitis of the par- ticular patient. Diagnosis of Acute Infectious Osteomyelitis.—The diagnosis of osteomyelitis is founded upon the symptoms already described; but, as in other diseases, variations from the typical form may obscure a decision; and other diseases may more or less simulate this one. Among those most likely to be confounded with it, is inflammatory rheumatism of the joints. To this osteomyelitis sometimes bears a close resemblance; because the symptoms of joint disease or of inflam- mation at the joint-end of the bone are at times more pronounced than those of the disease in the shaft, and the latter may be inconspicuous while the former are very pronounced. It is important to remember this fact in cases of severe inflammatory conditions in or near a joint, es- pecially if there are marked signs of constitutional disturbance. The possibility of mistaking osteomyelitis for rheumatism is greater when— as sometimes happens—the disease is actually limited to the epiphysis. An error may be avoided if this possibility is borne in mind in every case, and if a careful and thorough examination of the bones is made. In a number of doubtful cases it will be found on examination that there is a spot in the epiphysis where there is localized pain on pressure, and where a skilful touch ma}^ discover a diminution of resistance, giving the impression almost of a defect in the bone. Osteomyelitis may be mistaken for typhoid fever; but hardly, if proper attention is given to the state of the bones. Still, it must be remembered that in former days it was proposed to call this disease “typhoid of the limbs.” In this connection it is well also to bear in mind the fact that osteomyelitis may be a complication or sequel of typhoid fever, and that the typhoid bacillus has been found in the pus of osteomyelitis. Osteomyelitis should not be mistaken for primary periostitis, because their courses are not alike, and the appearance of the skin is quite different. In periostitis, the skin is usually more actively hypersemic and reddened. In osteomyelitis, the color is more dull. Further, the change in the skin appears early in periostitis, and late in osteo- myelitis. Suppuration in periostitis is not common, and is a late symp- tom. In osteomyelitis, it almost invariably appears early in the prog- ress of the disease. The swelling in periostitis is more diffuse; in