914 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. urine, Rovsing's1 observations are very interesting. This author found in 29 cases of cystitis 12 species of microbes of various forms, some of which are quite familiar. He found, for example, the Bacillus tuber- culosis, Staphylococcus albus, citreus, and aureus, and several new varieties to which he applied the names Streptococcus urese pyogenes, Coccobacillus urese, Diplococcus urese pyogenes. Micrococcus urese pyo- genes flavus, and four other varieties which Halle claims to be only the four preceding varieties robbed of their properties of pathogenesis. A very interesting point with relation to the bacterial infection of the genito-urinary tract is the occurrence of descending infection of the kidney, ureter, and bladder. It has been demonstrated that germs may infect the glandular structure of the kidney, and that at a subse- quent period either these germs, or their toxines, may cause inflam mation of the pelvis of the kidney, and, descending, may infect the bladder—that is, a cystitis may result from a primary nephritis of sep- tic origin, the nephritis itself having been acquired b}7 infection through the general circulation. It has been shown that germ infec- tion has much to do with those interesting cases of fatal cystitis with gangrene of the vesical mucosa, which follow the sudden relief of prolonged retention of urine in cases of chronic vesical inflammation. The circulatory disturbance resulting from prolonged retention, followed by a sudden relief of pressure, has been experimentally shown to bear a very important relation to germ infection. Heubner produced tem- porary obstruction of the vesical arteries. The vessels were then released from compression, and it was found that a sudden influx of blood was followed by coagulation-necrosis and thickening of the bladder walls. The experimenter then injected pathogenic organisms into the blood simultaneously with the removal of the constriction of the circulation, and found that septic cystitis with gangrene of the vesical mucous membrane resulted. Guyon has found similar con- ditions to prevail by experiments upon the kidney. Use of the Cystoscope in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases of the Bladder. One of the most important developments in genito-urinary surgery in recent }mars is the ocular examination and exploration of the bladder by means of the electric cystoscope. Although this instrument was really invented as early as 1879, it has only been within the last few years that it has approached a degree of perfection consistent with its practical employment by the surgeon. The perfection of the cys- toscope has been due to the efforts of Dr. Max Nitze and Mr. Josef Leiter, and the perfected instrument of to-day presents a combina- tion of the results of the inventive genius of these two gentlemen. Cystoscopy is approaching a degree of perfection in Europe of which even its most enthusiastic advocates never dreamed. It has not come into general use in this country, but a great many of our more promi- nent surgeons have become adept in the necessary manipulations. Dr. Willy Meyer, of New York, has done more work upon this subject than, perhaps, any other American surgeon. The improved pattern of cysto- 1 Beilin, 1890.