INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 562 crude method of employing lint wet with a bichloride solution should be discarded for the more efficient methods now in vogue.1 Treatment of Phlegmonous Erysipelas of the Scalp. Under no circumstances should my former advice be taken, to apply poultices after opening pus collections, a moist antiseptic dressing, cov- ered with rubber tissue or some substance impermeable to moisture, being invariably to be employed, the incisions being made after the preliminary preparation of the parts just advocated. Trephining. Preparation for Trephining.—In addition to what has just been advised, when demanded by the nature of the case, the cerebral fis- sures should be marked on the scalp with an aniline pencil or nitrate of silver point, after the preliminary cleansing, when a moist antiseptic dressing covered with cotton wool and oiled silk should be secured in place, only to be removed after the patient is anaesthetized. When time permits all this should be done at least twenty-four hours before operation. When done for epilepsy, tumor, etc., that is, where no scalp wound exists, a soft-soap poultice may be kept on for a few hours after, or instead of, the alcohol and acetic acid wash. Slight elevation of the head, or the semi-recumbent position, is the best for operation, because lessening the hemorrhage. When this is specially to be avoided, as in children, the Esmarch tourniquet may be applied; if it does not succeed, as is frequently the case, the vessels should be secured by needles armed with catgut passed through the scalp beneath them, or by catch-forceps. The bone should be marked with a drill or the centre-pin of the tre- phine, removed for the purpose, at the upper and lower extremities of the Rolandic fissure, before the flap is cut. The flap, including the perios- teum, should be large, with a semilunar or horseshoe outline, its base so disposed as to contain the chief scalp-vessels. The hemorrhage beiug controlled, the bone is removed by trephine or chisel as seems best.2 Bleeding from the large diploic veins may be arrested by concen- trically crushing in the surrounding bone with some blunt instru- ment, or by plugging with a bone chip, or with antiseptic wax. I have recently resorted to temporary plugging with fragments of antiseptic gauze or with an aseptic match-stick. Special precautions must be observed when both walls of the frontal sinus are broken. Most thorough disinfection of the sinus should precede perforation of its posterior wall, and at the conclusion of the operation the cavity must be carefully tamponed with iodoform gauze, remembering that symptoms of secondary compression may result from swelling of the tampon, by imbibition of wound fluids. The orbital margin should be resected, if necessary, to remove infected bone or foreign bodies. Should the dura mater require incision, a point is raised about one- 1 While I usually employ bichloride of mercury, it is hardly requisite to say that any other efficient germicidal or germ-inhibiting substance may be used instead. 2 When the fragments are to be replaced, they must be kept in a warm antiseptie towel, or sponges, or solution, until needed.