G05 TUMORS OF THE BRAIN. The limit for such treatment Horsley fixes at six weeks. Starr, I think with more justice, would extend it to three months: and I would urge with Seguin that no antisyphilitic treatment can be regarded as efficient unless the dose of the iodides has been increased up to half an ounce a day, or earlier intolerance. The location of intracranial tumors is unfortunately such that as a rule they are not accessible to operation. Gowers has tabulated 637 such tumors as follows: Central hemispheres (including central ganglia) 297 Cerebellum 179 Pons 59 Central ganglia 48 Medulla 81 Corpora quadrigemina 13 Crura cerebri 10 637 In Starr's table (p. 603) it will be observed that in the cerebral axis there were in adults 105 tumors, in children SO, all of them being of course excluded from operation. In the cerebellum there were 96 tumors in 300 children, as against 45 in 300 adults, showing more than double the frecpiency of cerebellar tumors in children, and making about the same proportion as 179 cerebellar tumors out of 637 in Gow- ers’s table. The only tumors accessible to the surgeon, with the exception of a very few in the cerebellum, are those in the cortex and centrum ovale. Those in Starr's table number 234, of which 70 were inaccessible, and in the remaining 164 Starr estimates that there were 46 in which oper- ation was clearly indicated and 37 in which it would probably have been successful. This gives about 6 per cent. Hale White estimates that 10 per cent, of 100 tumors in the museum of Guy’s Hospital might have been successfully attacked. Knapp estimates that only 7 per cent, of 435 cases tabulated by Bernhardt could have been removed. Mills and Lloyd give 10 cases out of 100, and Dana 5 out of 29. Add- ing these together we have 1354 tumors, with only 98 that could prob- ably have been removed, a little over 7 per cent. One very important consideration in determining whether brain tumors can be removed or not is the character of the growth as to in- filtration. A tumor definitely limited by a distinct wall, as in a well- defined cyst, or in which the delimitation of the tumor is definite, as in a fibroma or osteoma, may be thoroughly and completely removed. But to some extent the tubercular, and still more the malignant, growths infiltrate the surrounding tissues without any well-defined margins. In these cases it is evident that a considerable portion of brain tissue beyond the apparent limits of the tumor must be removed if we hope for success; and unless this be done it is useless to touch them. The same rule which leads the surgeon, in a breast case, to remove all the tissues infiltrated by a carcinoma, and also the lymph-glands, should lead him also to the wide excision of a malignant growth within the brain. Unfortunately this may destroy or maim various cerebral centres, but it must be done or the operation is useless. Symptoms of Brain Tumors.—The symptoms of brain tumors are now comparatively well known, and it is not too much to expect that