SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OE HERNIA. 891 an operation must be determined by the circumstances of each case. On account of the great thickness of fat in some of these subjects, and the enormous size of the hernial mass, the operation for radical cure, when the hernia is not strangulated, becomes formidable, and when strangula- tion is present, is accompanied by more than ordinary danger. In oper- ating for radical cure the sac should be divided along the edges of the opening. The edges should be drawn up and pared with scissors, and the aperture should be closed by strong sutures of silk including skin, fascia, muscle, and the peritoneum of the abdominal wall, the needle piercing this last tissue about one-fourth of an inch from the pared edge. As the sutures are tightened, the opposing surfaces of the parie- tal peritoneum of the two edges will be united. With the first symptoms of strangulation the patient should be anaesthetized, and a careful effort at reduction made by the application of taxis. If this does not succeed, the operation should be performed at once. The incision for a small hernia should be longitudinal, with its centre corresponding to the neck of the sac. When the mass is large a double elliptical incision may be made, as there is a redundancy of skin and fat which may well be dispensed with. On account of the exceeding thinness of the integument at times over the hernia, great care should be exercised in cutting down upon the tumor. As soon as the sac is punctured a dull director is introduced, and the sac is divided sufficiently to allow the introduction of the finger, upon which the further division is effected. If the finger nail can now be insinuated between the neck of the hernia and the constricting ring, this should be done, holding the palmar aspect of the finger toward the pubes. A probe-pointed bistoury is introduced flatwise and guided along the finger, and the constriction is divided for not more than one-fourtli of an inch at first, the direction of the cut being in the median line and downward. Or, if more convenient to the operator, this incision of the neck of the sac may be made in the upper aspect in the median line. The management of the strangulated bowel or omentum should be the same as advised for inguinal hernia. I prefer to cut the sac away, as above advised, freshen the edges of the opening, and bring all the layers which compose the abdominal wall together with one set of sutures. Where large masses of changed omentum are found in these hernise, they should be tied with clean catgut ligatures in sections, not including more in the grasp of each ligature than would represent the ordinary little finger of the hand. It sometimes takes as many as six or eight sets of ligatures to completely remove the mass. The omen- tum should be divided about one-fourth of an inch external to the liga- ture, and when all is cut away the stump is dropped back into the abdominal cavity. It is my practice, as soon as reduction is effected and before the sac has been cut away around the margin of the ring, to introduce a pad of sterilized gauze (secured by a string so that it may be withdrawn), taken out of hot Thiersch solution or hot sterilized water, and laid over the intestines immediately beneath the opening. When the sutures have all been inserted, and are ready for tying, the pad should be withdrawn. Other Forms of Hernia.—-Ventral hernia is amenable to the same general treatment as hernia of the acquired umbilical form. In opera-