SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. 873 with the fingers, and the patient he directed to resume the upright posture, the varicocele, despite the pressure, will return, while the her- nia cannot descend. Coughing does not give an impulse to varicocele. The accumulation of fluid in hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is first noticed in the lowest portion of the scrotum ; the swelling is spherical at first, and becomes pyriform after the cord is involved. Hydrocele is translucent, and fluctuation may be detected. Hydrocele of the cord, near the external ring or within the inguinal canal, may make dif- ferentiation more difficult. The impulse from coughing is not marked in hydrocele of the cord, the sense of weakness is absent, and the cyst is small and usually remains so. If, after full consideration, doubt still exists, aseptic aspiration with the finest hypodermic needle will clear up the diagnosis without danger. Bubo.—In chronic adenitis the glandular character of the swelling may be made out distinctly. In acute adenitis, although the peri- lymphatic infiltration is so extensive that the glands cannot be recog- nized, the redness of the skin, the great tenderness on pressure, and the superficial character of the pain, with the coexistence of a urethritis or sore upon the penis or scrotum, will commonly serve to establish the character of the lesion. Incarcerated testicle may be suspected if there is absence of the organ on that side. If the testicle is not extensively atrophied, pres- sure will give the peculiar and characteristic sense of pain experienced in injuries of this organ. In neoplasms there is a history of progressive development entirely disassociated from that of hernia, as heretofore detailed. Incarceration, temporary or permanent, of an ovary in the canal of Nuck may be suspected when on coughing there is no marked impulse transmitted to the tumor, and when pain is increased at the menstrual period. Cysts of the canal of Nuck or of the inguinal canal are rare, but have been met with in a number of cases—four or five within my own experience. They differ from berniae in general since they are irre- ducible, and do not impart a well-marked impulse on coughing. Abscess, which not infrequently appears above Poupart’s ligament, is accompanied with inflammatory and septic symptoms which do not accompany hernia. Abscess in this region occurs with adenitis, as just stated, and with osteitis of the vertebrae or ilium. The recognition of either of these lesions will lead to the correct diagnosis. In the manipulation of a hernial tumor, the sensation imparted to the fingers will vary with the contents of the sac and with the condition of the mass, If it contain only omentum, it is doughy to the feel, and will yield dulness on percussion. If the mass is composed of intestine, it is elastic and more or less tympanitic on percussion. The “colicky” pain felt when the intestine is firmly compressed is of diagnostic value in determining the contents of a hernia. Whether a hernia is reduci- ble or not, there is always a perceptible impulse imparted to the tumor in coughing or sneezing. In strangulated hernia the diagnosis rests first upon the existence of a tumor, which is present in almost all cases, though in very excep- tional instances there is no protrusion noticeable. The next symptom is pain at the seat of the hernia. In character it is compared to that