554 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. Lateral Curvature of the Spine. The literature of the causation of lateral curvature would fill vol- umes, and yet the true solution of the problem has not been reached. The arguments and conclusions brought forward in Mr. Fisher’s article are still as forcible and convincing as they were when published, and no' more rational theory has been promulgated. It may still be said that while muscular debility, inequality in the length of the legs, inequality in the weight of the upper extremities, faulty positions of standing or sitting, neuroses, etc., are operative as causes, yet that many of these conditions exist in numerous instances without any deforming result. There must exist, therefore, in addition, a condition of ligaments, intervertebral discs, and bones—some de- ficiency of elasticity and flexibility—which, though undemonstrable by microscope or by chemistry, yet is certainly recognizable as a clinical fact.1 Future knowledge will doubtless solve the problem A discus- sion of these theories will be found in Young’s work.2 The theory of rotation as advanced by Mr. Fisher is still as rational as any that has been advocated, namely, that the posterior portions of the vertebrae, being firmly supported by numerous muscular and ligamentous at- tachments, are not easily influenced by the unequal forces brought to bear upon them, while the comparatively free anterior bodies of the vertebrae are easily swung from their position. Treatment of Lateral Curvature.—The treatment of lateral curvature may consist of (1) Gymnastics, including Swedish movements and massage; (2) Mechanical measures to prevent and diminish the deformity; and (3) Forcible attempts to remove the rotation. (1) Gymnastics, etc.—It is admitted by all orthopaedic surgeons that increase of muscular power is an essential element in the prevention and cure of this distortion; consequently, well-regulated gymnastic movements should be a part of the education of all growing boys and girls. By this means the number of cases of lateral curvature will be very largely diminished. As a means of cure, the systems of muscular movements employed are various. Each teacher of Swedish movements has individual, as well as general, views, and many of them are helpful. So with gym- nastics: no one class of exercises should be alone relied upon. In gen- eral terms it may be said that the truncal muscles, especially upon the side of the convexity of the longest curve, are those requiring the most development. The surgeon should, however, decide in each indi- vidual case as to the necessities. This can best be done by observing the effect of certain groups of movements as demonstrated upon the bared back of the patient. That position and muscular action can affect the distorted chest and the rotated vertebral bodies, will be very evident if the surgeon grasps the pelvis of the patient and directs her to strongly rotate the upper portion of the body to right or left. This action will be especially noticeable if one arm is elevated alongside the head while 1 Beeley, Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1891, p. 343. 2 Orthopedic Surgery, p. 180, Philadelphia, 1894. See also Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1890.