942 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Electric Endoscopy.—The first to apply electrical illumination to endoscopic investigation was Nitze, liis earliest efforts in this direction having resulted in the production of his cystoscope, and soon after- ward of his urethroscope. The latter instrument was employed clinically in 1877 by Oberlander, of Dresden, who has made some valuable contributions to the study and development of endoscopy. The adoption of electricity as the source of light was an important step, and a great improvement over illumination either by sunlight or arti- ficial light reflected from the head mirror. The name of Leiter, of Vienna, which has since figured so promi- nently in the improvement of endoscopic instruments, became associated with the subject in 1879, when Dr. Nitze took to him his cystoscope for the purpose of having some mechanical difficulties overcome. In the Nitze urethroscope, as well as the cystoscope, the illumination is Fig. 1752. e\ & F. Tilden Brown’s Solid Bivalve Urethral Speculum. obtained from a loop of platinum wire placed at the distal end of the tube. The heat given out by this is so great as to require the con- struction of the instruments in such a way as to permit the circulation in the tube of a constantly moving stream of cool water. This difficulty was relieved by the invention of Edison’s incandescent lamp, and its adaptation, in 1887, to the urethroscope by Leiter, who thus produced an instrument which has led to much study and investiga- tion of urethral disease. In Leiter’s instrument a “mignon” incandes- cent lamp, mounted upon the end of a hard-rubber handle, is placed in a gutter, or semi-cylinder, of metal. At one end of this latter is a small concave mirror, fixed at an angle, and so adjusted as to direct the rays of the light reflected from it into the urethral tube, which is adjus- table to a funnel-shaped collar at the opposite end. The wires from the battery are attached to binding posts at the lower end of the handle, and the current is under control of the observer through the agency of a key placed along the side of the handle. The eye of the observer looks from behind across the top of the mirror, through the funnel opposite to it, and down the tube. A lens, changeable to suit any