SARCOMA. 261 The proportion of cures, therefore, was not much over seven per cent. Sarcoma of the Bones. —Sarcoma of the bones is frequently called osteo-sarcoma, but this term should be dropped, because it signifies a tumor containing bony tissue, and this is not true of all sarcomata of the bones. In the study of these tumors it is important to distinguish be- tween those of central and those of periosteal or subperiosteal origin. The former are rather less malignant, probably because they are quite frequently of the giant-celled variety, which has a slow course and very little tendency to invade the surrounding parts or to cause metastatic tumors. But round-cell and spindle-cell tumors also occur centrally, and do not appear to be less malignant than the subperiosteal tumors. The giant-cell variety can often be dealt with by a purely local opera- Fig. 1598. Sarcoma of Tibia which had been Mistaken for Osteomyelitis and Treated by Curetting- Girl, aged twenty. Disarticulation at knee-joint, August, 1892. In perfect health, February, 1894. tion, and even if recurrence takes place, it is time enough then to treat the disease by amputation. Sarcoma of the bones is not infrequently multiple, as in the case reported by Coats, in which the sternum, ribs, humerus, femur, and nearly all the vertebrae were affected in the course of five years, or as in that of Nasse, who found tumors in the pelvic bones, ribs, vertebrae, tibia, and both femora, but could not decide which was the primary growth. While secondary deposits in the ribs are frequent, primary sarcoma is rare in these bones, and the cases re- ported by Brandi, Seydel, Humbert, Zarubin, and Mikulicz deserve no- tice. Brandi could find only five cases in surgical literature. In at least two cases the attempts at removal compelled the resection of por- tions of the diaphragm, but the patients recovered. Another rare sit- uation is the hyoid bone, in which position Korner has recorded a case operated upon by von Bergmann, which occurred in a girl of eighteen, and which secondarily involved the oesophagus. A doubtful case treated by operation has also been reported by Le Dentu in a woman seventy-one years old.