973 AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. Pruritus of the Genitals.-—Owing to a difference in nomenclature there is apt to be some misunderstanding concerning the two diseases, pruritus and prurigo. In Mr. H. Royes Bell’s article on Injuries and Diseases of the Male Genital Organs, in Vol. VI., this affection was described under the name prurigo. He followed the not uncommon custom of English and French dermatologists. In Germany and America, however, the term pruritus is used to ex- press the condition in which itching exists without definite causative lesions, and the name prurigo is restricted to the disease of Hebra, which is a chronic affection, beginning usually in early life, and char- acterized by the appearance of small papules, principally on the exten- sor surfaces and accompanied with intense itching. It is comparatively rare, and Hebra considered it incurable. In the treatment of pruritus, as we shall call it, any sources of local irritation, with which it is so often associated, should be searched for. Hemorrhoids, particularly, should be removed, and the bowels should be carefully regulated. Vaginal discharges, the state of the bladder, kidneys, urine, etc., should also be attended to. A method of using tar in this affection which I have found of the greatest service is to employ a mixture of one part of tar ointment to two or three parts of oxide-of-zinc ointment. Pure tar ointment is apt to be too irritating. Bronson 1 recommends the following: A drachm each of carbolic acid and liquor potassie to an ounce of linseed oil. The mixture is to be shaken before being applied. Baths will sometimes relieve the itching. After a bath the surface of the body should be dusted with powdered starch, or with camphor and oxide of zinc, or with a recent pharma- ceutical powder known as “compound stearate of zinc with menthol.” Menthol may also be used dissolved in oil. Cocaine is not of very much service unless excoriations are present. A saturated watery solution of boric acid may be recommended. In the pruritus of diabetics, Crocker advised painting the parts with nitrate of silver, ten grains to an ounce of the sweet spirit of nitre. Affections of the Scrotum. Contusions and Wounds.—As the result of contusions large effusions of blood may form, and may so distend the scrotum as to ren- der the diagnosis from hsematocele of the tunica vaginalis one of some difficulty. Such a case recently came under my notice. The character of the injury and the manner of its reception, the discolora- tion of the skin, frequently extending to the thighs and abdomen, the limitation of the swelling and the more or less superficial character of the fluctuation may aid the surgeon in deciding as to the location of the effusion. In cases of doubt an evaporating lotion will cause the subcutaneous effusion to disappear rapidly, whereas a hsematocele will be more apt to remain stationary. Wounds of the scrotum, the result of operative procedures, should always be made with full antiseptic precautions. There are few places of the body in which asepsis is so difficult to 1 Morrow’s System of Genito-Urinary Diseases, Syphilis, and Dermatology, vol. iii., p.