APPENDICITIS. 859 nausea, and with slight intestinal obstruction which generally yields to a mild laxative, the acute symptoms subsiding in one, two, or three days, and the patient returning to apparent health; but another attack, more or less severe, follows in a period varying from a month to six months, as the case may be, and the condition then becomes one of relapsing or recurring appendicitis. Catarrhal appendicitis may be more severe in some one of its attacks, perforation occurring, or the case going on to the development of an abscess which becomes extraperitoneal from Nature being able to shut off the abdominal cavity by adhesive peritonitis; a tumor then presents itself, suppuration takes place, and the condition becomes one of true suppurative appendicitis. These cases do well after operation if too great search is not made for the sloughing appendix, the abscess cavity being washed out and properly drained. But by far the most serious and fatal cases are those of f ulminating, acute, gangrenous, or perforating appendicitis. These are the cases in which the symptoms are very rapid in their development. The pain is localized, and generally in the right inguinal region, the point of great- est tenderness on pressure corresponding to what is known as McBur- ney’s point, about two inches from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, in a line from that process to the umbilicus. The location of the appendix is however variable, it being sometimes found under the caecum, sometimes with a long mesentery in the left inguinal region, sometimes above the umbilicus, reaching as far up as the under surface of the liver, or, when abnormally long, deep in the pelvis; and the point of greatest tenderness is wherever the appendix happens to be, but as its usual position is in the right inguinal region, the detec- tion of tenderness there is a sign of considerable value. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of appendicitis is certainly becoming bet- ter understood by the profession, yet errors are not infrequently made. It has been mistaken for renal, biliary, or intestinal colic, intestinal obstruction, salpingitis, psoas abscess, general or pelvic peritonitis, typhoid fever, impaction of faeces in the caecum, cancer, tuberculosis, and dilatation of the ureter. The study of appendicitis for the past ten years has had much to do with eliminating that very uncertain term ‘‘idiopathic, peritonitis,” and it has been well said that ninety per cent, of so-called cases of inflammation of the bowels can be traced directly to the appendix vermiformis. In the clinical study of this disease the pulse has been much neglected. It is not only its rate that is important, but its character; the fright- ened action of the heart apparently presents doubt and uncertainty in the condition of the pulse, a condition that tells that although the beat is but 90 now, in a few hours it will be 120 or more. A too brief ex- amination of the condition of the circulation will not always reveal its true state. Perforation of the appendix, however, is not always fol- lowed by an immediate increase in the pulse-rate, though this comes very soon. The temperature cannot be relied upon to any great extent in the classification of cases of appendicitis. A very dangerous perforation may be present, and yet the temperature may remain nearly normal for several hours.