TUMORS OF THE ORBIT.—STRABISMUS. 699 Later investigations (not yet published) by de Schweinitz prove that similar effects are produced by the other alkaloids of cinchona bark. Other cranial nerves are not injured. The treatment consists in discon- tinuing the drug, and in the exhibition of nitrite of amyl, strychnine, and digitalis. The other forms of amblyopia should be treated on gen- eral principles, it being of course first necessary to learn their cause. Tumors of the Optic Nerve are exceedingly rare, and are divided by Leber into the essential and the non-essential. The former spring from the nerve-tissue itself, the latter from the sheath, and involve the nerve by extension. The growth of the essential tumors is very slow, lasting at times for years, and generally causing blindness and perhaps proptosis. The growths are usually myxomata or fibromata, and a case of neu- roma has been reported. Operation has not as a rule been followed by good results. Tumors of the Orbit. These may be benign or malignant, and they may begin in the orbit or may extend from the neighboring cavities. Orbital tumors are rare, and especially those of the optic nerve. Usually orbital tumors do not spread to the eyeball, and therefore when both ball and orbit are in- volved, the former has generally been the starting-point. Upon the position of the tumor depends its effect upon the ball. Tumors occupy- ing the space between the orbital muscles do not at first interfere with the movements or position of the eye, but may finally cause outward displacement, while those in other parts of the cavity press the eye up- ward, downward, inward, or outward, according to their position. Orbital tumors are bony (exostoses), vascular, cystic, lymphadenom- atous, sarcomatous, and rarely carcinomatous. These tumors should always be removed as soon as discovered, when sometimes the eye may be saved, but usually vision is lost, and in cases of malignant growths death generally occurs. The entire orbital contents should be removed when the tumors are malignant, but when the surrounding cavities and bones of the face are invaded, the operation, while it may give temporarly relief, undoubtedly hastens the end. Strabismus. Division of the ocular muscles is not done with the freedom of former years, and tenotomy and advancement are now regarded by most ophthalmic surgeons as the last steps in conjunction with other methods for gaining binocular vision, or for bringing a deviating eye to its natural position. Every condition of a squinting eye, viz., its acuity of vision, refraction, strength of muscles, and amount of devia- tion, should be accurately measured and known before any operative procedure is considered. Most ophthalmologists require their patients to wear correcting glasses, and to exercise, if necessary, weak muscles by the aid of prisms and otherwise, before advising operative treat- ment. The management of squinting amblyopic eyes requires much care and good judgment, because there is no incentive for such eyes to