INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 380 Inflammatory Lesions of Nerves. Neuritis.—Occasionally there are observed thickenings of peri- pheral nerves of the paralyzed side in cases of cerebral hemorrhage; this condition has been called “neuritis hypertrophica,” and Charcot believes it to be due to trophic influences. In the neuritis of anaes- thetic leprosy, the bacillus leprae has been found in the connective tissue of the nerves. Mobius has described a form of neuritis occurring in the puerperal state, to which he has applied the name of “neuritis puerperalisthe disease affects particularly the nerves of the upper extremity. The cause is not known. Tubercular and syphilitic in- flammation are, according to Ziegler, most often seen in the cranial por- tions of the cranial nerves and in the roots of the spinal nerves. Multiple Neuritis.—It has been suggested that this disease, in which there is a parenchymatous inflammation of many of the periph- eral nerves, is of an infectious nature. It has been quite frequently seen in connection with pulmonary phthisis (Strumpell), and has been observed after influenza. The peculiar affection known as “beri-beri,” or “kak-ke,” which is met with in the East Indies, Islands of the South Pacific, etc., has been shown by Balz, Scheube, and others to be a form of multiple neuritis; it seems to be due to micro-organisms which exist as rods and as cocci, and are found in the air and soil, and in the blood of persons affected. The symptoms of beri-beri are those of neuritis, affecting particularly the nerves of the lower extremities, and the branches of the pneumogastric which are distributed to the heart. Disturbances of sensation and motion, paralysis and wasting of muscles, oedema, and cardiac murmurs are developed. The disease is usually chronic, and death, when it occurs, is most often due to cardiac failure. Treatment: Removal from the infected locality is, of course, the first requisite; an attempt at disinfecting the surroundings should be made; rest is very important, especially as the heart is affected; strychnine, quinine, and digitalis are appropriate remedies. Neuralgia in General. Neuralgia.—Dana 1 and Putnam’ state that in many cases of tri- facial neuralgia, obliterating endarteritis of the vessels supplying the affected nerve maybe found. Putnam, Horsley, Rose, and others have described sclerotic changes in the nerve fibres and in the Gasserian ganglion. Putnam also lays stress on the fact that the trifacial nerve has a very extensive, deep origin, and many connections with other nerves which render it particularly liable to disturbing influences; it has also been asserted that a neuritis may be caused b}^ repeated and severe “nerve storms” traversing the nerve track. The size of the foramen ovale has been investigated by Carless, who finds considerable variations in its diameter, and this may possibly be a causative factor 1 Journ. of Nerv. and Ment. Dis., No. 1, 1891. 2 Bost. Med. and Surg. Journ., Aug. 20, 1891.