989 ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. to be looked upon as, if left to itself, an ultimately fatal disorder. That it is so in a large number of cases is probably true, as the disease, though it may remain quiescent for months or even years, shows a marked tendency to reappear. This temporary subsidence is what has caused some of the milder cases of hernia testis to be regarded as benign. The disease extends from the epididymis to the testicle and vas deferens. Its involvement of the seminal vesicles has already been alluded to. The affection also invades the prostate, producing abscesses, and then attacks the bladder, ureters and kidneys, producing one of the most distressing affections known in surgery. Finally the lungs are attacked and the scene closes. Simmons1 found that in thirty-five autopsies in cases of genital tuberculosis, thirty-one patients had the lungs affected. Gaule2 found one case of kidney abscess and five of general miliary tuberculosis in eighteen autopsies for genital tuberculosis. Finkh 3 obtained the sub- sequent history of twenty-nine patients on whom castration had been performed. Of these, fourteen were still living and free from disease. Nine of the fourteen had had disease of one testicle only and the other five of both testicles. Of the nine in whom only one testicle had been diseased and removed, one was still well after an interval of twenty- nine years, one fifteen, one fourteen, one thirteen, one six, two over five years, one two years, and one one year after the operation. Of the patients from whom both testicles had been removed, one was well ten years afterward, one three years, two a half year, and one a quarter of a year. Eight patients had died in the interval of non-tuberculous diseases. In five of these only one testicle had been removed, and one had remained free twenty-two years, two three years, one three-fourths of a year, and another eleven years. In the three double cases, one patient had remained free for thirty years, one for five years, while the third had lived only twelve days. This last patient was sixty-three years of age, and died probabty of the operative procedure. In another case of double extirpation the patient lived twentj'-three years and died of some unknown disease. Six patients of the twenty-nine operated on died of tuberculosis: of these one died four years after the operation, of tuberculosis of the lung; one two years afterward, also of lung affection; one after two years of lung and kidney disease; one of lung disease a half-year after operation; one three months after, with caries of the spine and tuber- culosis of the liver; and one in three weeks with general miliary tuber- culosis. As to how far Mr. Jacobson is right in regarding tuberculous disease of the testis as an ultimately fatal disorder, is certainly an open ques- tion. To have only six out of twenty-nine patients die of a recurrence of the disease, is surely not a malignant history. The affection after castration pursues much the course of the localized tuberculoses in other parts of the body, and we know that they are not necessarily fatal, but that in fact large numbers of them end in recovery. It is only neces- sary to refer to cases of coxalgia, Pott’s disease of the spine, tubercular arthritis of the knee, and glandular affections. Recoveries from these, 1 Deutsche Zeitsclirift fur Chirurgie, Bd. xviii., S. 157. 2 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. lxix. 3 Bruns, Beitrage zur klinischen Chirurgie, 1886. Bd. xi., S. 407.