53 WOUND-TKEATMEXT. meable to moisture. It will, therefore, suffice to boil them before every operation during live or ten minutes in a 1-per-cent, soda solution, as has been recommended for the disinfection of instruments, and to pre- serve them, when once they are aseptic, in absolute alcohol until used. This will prevent them from becoming contaminated with germs that might resist the sterilizing effect of boiling when this has been limited to only five or ten minutes. The sterilization of catgut and silk is a much more difficult under- taking, more especially the preparation of aseptic catgut. Only a few years ago it seemed as if we should be compelled to entirely abandon the use of the latter, so utterly impossible was efficient sterilization by the then known methods believed to be. But we are now fortunately convinced of the contrary. It was undoubtedly an advance in the preparation of gut, when Kocher described his method with juniper oil, in which he placed the raw material for twenty-four hours before preserving it definitely in 95-per-cent, alcohol, and this mode of prepara- tion soon replaced those recommended by Lister for carbolized and chromicized catgut. The new gut was extensively used, until it was shown by scientific methods that the procedure by which it was pre- pared was quite incapable of producing an aseptic material. Catgut is absorbable, and for this reason it is almost indispensable in surgical practice. It is precisely this quality, however, which increases the diffi- culty of its sterilization. During the manufacture of the raw material from sheep’s gut, where no precautions whatever are taken, it is evi- dent that many impurities may find their way into the substance of the threads, if they are not already present in the substance of the gut from which the threads are twisted. It is not improbable that a case of anthrax infection from catgut, reported by Volkmann, was due to the presence of spores of anthrax within the substance of the thread. Other germs imbedded therein may also, as the catgut becomes ab- sorbed in the living tissues, be liberated, and, if still active, may de- velop, and cause all the symptoms of wound infection. It is custom- ary to grease catgut during its manufacture, to render it soft and less brittle. This answers an excellent purpose for the manufacture of musical strings, but it ought to be strictly avoided when making sur- gical catgut. This greasing has led to the necessity of placing the gut in ether before further subjecting it to disinfection by chemical aids. The fatty substances are thus extracted, which is important, as they form a very potent barrier to the penetration of watery solutions. When it was shown that juniper oil did not possess sufficient anti- septic power, the bichloride of mercury came into use some years ago, and it is still to-day acknowledged to be by far the best disinfectant for this purpose. Corrosive sublimate has been used in watery and alcoholic solutions for the preparation of catgut. Yon Bergmann uses alcoholic solutions at the Berlin Clinic. His method of preparation is the following: Surgical catgut is wound on glass reels or plates, and placed in ether for twenty-four hours, and then for at least forty-eight hours in a mixture of 10.0 parts of corrosive sublimate, 800.0 parts of alcohol, and 200.0 parts of distilled water, the same being changed every twenty-four hours until it no longer becomes turbid. Then sterilization is said to be complete, and the catgut may be indefinitely preserved in ordinary alcohol of 95 per cent. It is not quite certain