URINARY CALCULUS. 934 The two substances which seem to me to possess the greatest amount of value in this particular, are saliclyic acid and the nitrate of silver; the former substance has found a vigorous champion and active advo- cate in the person of Dr. Bryson, of St. Louis, who has demonstrated its claims in several written articles, and has especially promulgated his views upon its value in the preventive treatment of urethral fever, in an admirable contribution to the literature of that subject.1 This substance can be used perhaps most readily in the form of Thiersch’s solution, which may be made upon the spot, at a moment’s notice, by dissolving a powder composed of a drachm of salicylic acid and half an ounce of boric acid in a quart of hot water. With this the urethra and bladder may be frequently and thoroughly irrigated just before commencing a crushing operation, with a certainty that this remedy will dissolve out the mucus from hidden places, and wash away offensive glutinous material, perhaps more satisfactorily than any other. The bichloride of mercury, in solution of from 1-20,000 to 1-10,000, according to the presumptive sensitiveness of the patient, is a local wash upon which also I place considerable reliance; but where there is much viscid mucus, I prefer the salicylic acid-combination. The nitrate of silver finds its chief advocate in Professor Guyon, who maintains that its use in the deep urethra after any traumatic irrita- tion of that canal—causing such lesion, for instance, as that pro- duced by the use of sounds—will prevent urethral fever; and it is his habit, both before and after the conclusion of a crushing operation, to flush out the urethra and irrigate the bladder with a solution of the nitrate of silver, one grain to the ounce or thereabouts. I have used this substance in the way described with apparently most gratifying results, both in stone cases and in others requiring operative ma- noeuvres upon the urinary tract. The obvious objection to its use is the irritating effect which it leaves behind, causing certain sensitive patients to strain unnecessarily for several hours after an operation, unless prevented by the administration of an amount of anodyne which would not otherwise be called for. The question of sterilization of instruments and of the aseptic per- formance of operations involving the bladder, is one which often comes up for discussion, the intelligent questioner naturally asking why all this care should be taken to sterilize the secretions and keep a wound surgically pure, when the bladder is cut into either above the pubis or in the perineum, when it is quite obvious that by no possibility can the wound be kept surgically pure after the operation, bathed and kept con- stantly moistened as it must be, and perhaps the dressing as well, by a fluid so capable of rapid degeneration and so full of microbic life as decomposing urine. In answer to this it may he justly replied that the operator who cuts open the bladder one day may attack the kidney or some other organ the next day, and that we are all such creatures of habit that, unless we adopt an operative technique which we apply to all cases, we shall certainly neglect, sooner or later, some necessary precaution in a case where such neglect might be fatal. And even if the operator could afford himself the license of neglect in a case which in his judgment would justify ordinary carelessness, still he should allow no such license 1 Journal of Genito-Urinary and Cutaneous Diseases, Sept., 1892.