805 REMOVAL OF INTUBATION-TUBE. well to make a trial as to the feeding before special diet is ordered for any individual case. Some patients wearing intubation-tubes will learn to swallow with the tube in place; I have seen children who at first were unable to take liquid nourishment, in a few days change their manner of swallowing so that liquids could be taken without discom- fort. Where marked difficulty is experienced in swallowing liquids, I order a diet of semisolids, such as corn-starch, mush, milk-toast, curd, or soft-boiled eggs, and as patients soon experience thirst, I order pieces of ice to be swallowed, or give enemata of water, an ounce to an ounce and a half, to be repeated at intervals. In the case of infants, for whom a milk diet is essential, it will often be found that the child can swallow well if fed from a nursing-bottle or the breast, the head being dropped over the nurse’s lap so that it is lower than the body; this lat- ter expedient was suggested by Casselberry, of Chicago. In some cases where the above expedients fail as regards the feeding of patients, it will be found necessary to resort to the introduction of food by nutritious enemata or by means of a stomach-tube. Removal of Intubation-Tube.—The intubation-tube usually re- mains in place for four or five days, but it is often coughed out before this time as the swelling of the laryngeal tissues subsides, and if there be no dyspnoea it need not be replaced; the surgeon, however, should bear in mind that for a few days dyspnoea is liable to return, so that the reintroduction of the tube may be necessitated, and he should be within reach of the patient during this time; if, however, it has not been coughed out, and the child’s general condition is improving, the tem- perature having a tendency to reach the normal mark, the tube may be removed at the end of three or four days, and if there is no return of the dyspnoea it need not be reintroduced; but the case should be kept under careful observation, for the patient is not safe for several days more. If, on the other hand, dyspnoea is present after the withdrawal of the tube it should be promptly replaced, and no further attempt should be made to dispense with it for a period of two or three days. In from five to ten days the tube can ordinarily be definitively with- drawn, although I have had recently under my care a case in which it could not be permanently removed until the fifteenth day. After the removal or expulsion of the intubation-tube, if the breathing is carried on satisfactorily. I continue for two or three days the use of the soda spray, and have the patient carefully watched so that he is not exposed to cold. In all cases in which recovery has followed intubation of the larynx I have noticed that there has been a considerable amount of hoarseness of the voice, which, however, usually disappears in a few weeks. As the same intubation-tubes may be used in many different cases, it is most important that they should be thoroughly sterilized by boiling for a few minutes after their removal, and thoroughly cleaned and polished before being again employed. More difficulty is often experienced in removing an intubation-tube than in its original introduction. For removing the tube the patient should be placed in the same position as that already described. The mouth-gag should be used to separate the jaws; the index finger of the left hand should be protected, and should be passed into the mouth and