ADENOMA—CARCINOMA. 273 tions with sarcoma and carcinoma have been much disputed. If the later theories in development are accepted, which derive the endothe- lium from the epithelial layer of the ovum, the connection between sar- coma and carcinoma is very close, and these tumors will form a con- necting link between them morphologically as well as in histological appearances. Adenoma. This vaguely defined group of tumors stands between normal gland structures and the carcinomata. Some would include in this class all tumors with increase of the epithelial elements of any organ, whether there be production of other tissues or not, and whether the result be a solid tumor, or a cyst, or a number of cysts. The tumors seldom ex- actly reduplicate the gland from which they spring, although they imi- tate it nearly enough, as a rule, to enable one to identify the organ from which the neoplasm has come by the structure of the growth. In the stomach and intestine the adenomata bear a particularly close resemblance to the carcinomata, as they infiltrate the surrounding parts and cause metastases, and actual change of the tumor into carcinoma is very frequently seen. In the rectum the only means of distinguish- ing between the benign and malignant growths appears to be the fact that the former become polypoid, while the latter, although without a trace of carcinomatous structure, grow beneath the mucous membrane, infiltrate it in all directions, and return when removed. Certain adenomata of the thyroid gland appear to have the power of producing metastases also, as in the cases reported by Morris, Cohn- heim, Runge, and Coats. The secondary tumors occurred in the bones, especially those of the skull, and were observed to pulsate. In struc- ture they exactly reproduced the primary growths, but showed no ten- dency to invade the surrounding parts, and remained encapsulated. Carcinoma. In the study of carcinoma I shall follow the same plan as that adopted in the case of sarcoma, classifying the facts to be considered, and es- pecially the chances for radical cure, under the different parts affected, and shall conclude with some general remarks upon the treatment of the disease and its results. I shall begin with malignant disease of the skin, most frequently occurring in the form of flat-cell epithelioma. Epithelioma of the Skin.—A special study of the calcifying epitlie- liomata has been made by von Noorden. These tumors are enclosed in strong sacs, grow under the skin, nearly always on the head (fourteen cases on the head against three on the arm and two on the back), and run a very slow, benign course, resembling very closely that of seba- ceous cysts. In fact, it appears probable that they originate in the se- baceous glands as adenomata, subsequently developing into epithelio- mata. They have an alveolar structure, and the calcification, which is a degenerative change, takes place both in the epithelial cells, usu- ally at the centres of the alveoli, and in the connective tissue of the VOL. VII.—-18