(727 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. BY JOHN B. ROBERTS, A.M., M.D., PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE PHILADELPHIA POLYCLINIC AND IN THE WOMAN’S MEDICAL COLLEGE OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE METHODIST HOSPITAL OF PHILADELPHIA. In this article will he considered the injuries and surgical diseases of the soft parts of the face, excluding those of the nose, mouth, eyes, and ears, which are considered elsewhere. Anatomical and Surgical Peculiarities. The skin of the face is thin, very vascular and elastic, and closely adherent to the subcutaneous cellular tissue and muscles. The direct insertion of many of the facial muscles into the lower surface of the skin not only prevents the latter from slipping freely over the under- lying tissue, but gives to the face its lines or wrinkles of expression. Certain of these furrows, such as the naso-labial, are permanent even in repose; others are only made evident by ever-changing mental emo- tions. The muscular fibres are enveloped in deposits of adipose tissue, whose unusual absence in conditions of inanition gives the face under such circumstances a characteristic cadaveric appearance. The operat- ing surgeon should remember not to make his incisions across these facial furrows of forehead or cheek, but parallel to or even along the bottom of them. Thus will he make the least conspicuous scars. Whenever possible a scar should he placed in a region usually in shadow. Thus it is that wounds made under the brow or lower mar- gin of the jaw, and parallel to these bony edges, cause little deformity. Care should be taken that the hair of the eyebrow and beard should not be made to grow in an abnormal direction by unwisely placed incisions. It must be recollected that scars made in childhood increase in length as the patient grows; hence wounds made in badly chosen situations or directions may become undesirably conspicuous. An incision consist- ing of a series of long curves makes perhaps a less noticeable scar than a perfectly straight cut. The free bleeding which is apt to obscure the seat of operation soon ceases under pressure with sponges or haemostatic forceps, though tor- sion and an occasional catgut ligature may be demanded. Diminished