SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 616 Afterward, epilepsy supervened, and the paralysis of the left arm be- came complete left hemiplegia, involving the face, with headache, vom- iting, and entire loss of consciousness. She was in a comatose and apparently moribund condition. Her family finally consented to an operation. Two ounces of thin green pus, containing quantities of the fungus, were evacuated. By the next day she had regained her con- sciousness. In eight days the face had recovered and the leg had begun to recover, and she was able to walk in six weeks. There still re- mained, however, after some months, a weakness of the left arm and slight contraction of the fingers. Nearly a year afterward the paraly- sis began to increase again, the vomiting and convulsions returned. The old wound was reopened and a considerable quantity of pus re- moved, hut she died in a few days. Post-mortem inspection showed a hernia cerebri occupying the middle third of the right frontal and parietal convolutions, and underneath, an unopened, encapsulated ab- scess, the size of a nutmeg. Very clearly, the diagnosis can rarely be made, but the earlier that operative interference can he had the better. The cure of actinomycosis in cattle by the iodide of potassium has recently attracted attention. Dr. Salmon,1 of the United States Bureau of Animal Industry, has stated that 63 per cent, of cattle so treated have recovered. This has suggested its use in man. Buzzi and Galli- Valerio2 refer to a case reported by Van Iterson3 and record another of their own, in which, after failure of operation to cure, the adminis- tration of 30 grains of the iodide, daily, effected a complete cure in three months. The method should undoubtedly be tested in every suspected case before resorting to operation. The improvement seems to begin quickly and to progress rapidly. Surgical Treatment op Epilepsy. Four varieties of epilepsy should be distinguished from each other sur- gically. (1) The first, and by far the commonest form is the general or idiopathic epilepsy, in which the fit is apt to begin with a cry, and the convulsions are general from the start. The pathology of this form is as yet unknown. (2) A variety of this form of epilepsy is what is called focal epilepsy, in which the fit, instead of being general from the out- set, begins always or nearly always in one part, as, for instance, in the right leg or the right arm, and from that as a starting-point ex- tends over the entire body. Sometimes slight pathological degenerative changes have been observed, hut more frequently the brain appears en- tirely normal. (3) The third variety is Jacksonian epilepsy, named after its distinguished describer, Hughlings Jackson, of London. Nearly thirty years ago Dr. Jackson described this form of epilepsy, in which consciousness is not lost, and the attack, beginning in the face, will extend to the'arm and then to the leg, or from the leg will pass to the arm and then to the face; or, beginning in the arm, may extend to the leg or face. It will be observed that this “march of the fit,” as it has been called, corresponds with the topographical relation of the motor 1 Med. Record, Jan. 21, 1893, p. 84. 2 Brit. Med. Journal, Epitome, Aug. 5, 1893, p. 23. 3 La Semaine Medicale, 21 Dec., 1892.