922 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. aluminum plug (see Fig. 174-1). This is from two and a half to three and a half inches long, and is retained by straps around the hips. It is, of course, to he removed when the patient desires to pass water, and immediately after urination it is re- placed. It is impor- tant that this plug should not project farther into the bladder than just through the vesical wall. But suppose the case to be one of atony of the blad- der, and that it is impossible for the man to urinate in this manner—for prolonged retention, with overdistention, and repeated attacks of, or persistent, cystitis, will lead to degenerative change and to loss of muscular power more or less complete. When the loss is complete, power is rarely if ever regained. The continued use of the catheter does not in my experience lead to atony, as Sir Henry Thomp- son and others teach. I have seen the power of the bladder preserved after six years of catheter life. During the flow of urine through the catheter the bladder is not an idle, inactive bag. Even then voluntary and involuntary muscular contraction is going on, and muscular power is preserved unless some of the causes above mentioned intervene and destroy it. If there is vesical atony, however, none of the prostatecto- mies described will enable the patient to voluntarily empty his bladder. Complete enucleation of the prostate would not accomplish this. The only thing left now is drainage. This can be better performed by the suprapubic artificial urethra than by a perineal fistula. In the latter the patient is annoyed by constant leakage of urine. By the suprapti- bic track the catheter may be made to act as a siphon, and vesical irri- gation may be freely used. The man can take care of himself without the aid of an assistant. If no longer needed the suprapubic opening is more readily closed than one in the perineum. Through the suprapubic track I have carried a lithotrite, and have caught, crushed, and removed a stone which was lodged in a vesical pouch, and which could not have been reached through the natural urethra. If after the bladder is opened a pedunculated hypertrophy of the third lobe is found, or if fibrous masses of prostatic tissue project into the bladder, it is proper to attempt their removal if the condition of the patient will justify it. These masses lying in the bladder act as irritants, and are almost as injurious as stones or other foreign bodies. Professor Poncet, of Lyons, France, reports 35 cases of suprapubic cystotomy for the formation of an artificial urethra, with no deaths. I have operated on 39 cases with only two deaths, both from pre-exist- ing but undetected pyelo-nephritis. Fig. 1741. Obturator for Wse After Formation of Artificial Urethra.