1008 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. bladder is dissected from the cervix as low as the junction of cervix and vagina. The uterine vessels—the pulsations of which may usu- ally be felt—are then ligated. The ligature is passed either between the folds of the broad ligaments, or outside of them, according to their thickness and vascularity. The uterus may then be amputated at any point in the cervix, or may be removed at the utero-vaginal junction. The stump and the peritoneum may be closed with sutures. Drainage is not necessary. When the cervical canal is opened it may be ren- dered aseptic with the actual cautery, or with a 1-500 solution of bi- chloride of mercury. Cancer of the Uterus. Complete removal of the uterus is becoming more widely recognized as the best operation in cancer of the cervix or body of that organ. It is the operation which should always be advised in any case where the disease has not extended too far to admit of complete removal of all infiltrated tissue. The cancerous uterus has been removed by coeliotomy, by vaginal hysterectomy, and by the combined method. Goodell1 states that statistics warrant the assertion that the remote or permanent success of the operation of vaginal hysterectomy far exceeds that of all opera- tions undertaken for cancer in all other parts of the body. The remarkable statistics of the Dresden Clinic confirm this favora- ble view.2 Leisse presents a tabulated statement of the histories of all the patients as far as they could be obtained. Of 80 patients examined over two years after the operation, 45 or 56.2 per cent, were free from recurrence. Of 58 patients examined three years after the operation, 58.6 per cent, were free from recurrence. Of 42 patients examined after four years, 59.5 per cent were free from recurrence. Of 30 patients examined after five years, 60.per cent, were free from recur- rence. Leopold 3 states that of 76 of his patients remaining under observa- tion after recovery from the operation, 72 had no recurrence of the dis- ease from one to five and a half years subsequently. Early diagnosis in uterine cancer is essential for successful treat- ment. The first appreciable manifestation of the disease is irregular or unusual bleeding from the vagina. This bleeding may be very small in amount. It may appear as menorrhagia, as a slight show of blood between menstrual periods, or as a slight bleeding, often with more or less periodicity, occurring some months or years after the meno- pause. Such unusual bleeding in a woman over thirty-five years of age should always arouse suspicion. It demands an immediate careful vaginal examination, supplemented in case of any doubt by microscopic inspection of the cervical or other suspected tissue. Goodell’s papers on Vaginal Hysterectomy are valuable in this connection.4 1 Med. News, Dec. 10, 1892. 2 Archiv fur Gyn., Band xl., Heft 2, 1891. 3 Quoted by Goodell, Med. News, Dec. 5, 1891. 4 Med. News, Dec. 5, 1891, and Dec. 10, 1892.