CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. 1054 and strong, and the pipes and traps are exposed. The lavatories have tiled floors, and that of the operating-room is of asphalt. At the rear of the same lot it is intended to build hereafter a small contagious hos- pital. Taken altogether, here is a good example of what can be done for a moderate amount of money to meet the need of a town of 10,000 inhabitants, allowance being made for latitude and climate. Hospitals for Infectious Diseases. J'cfJc offccr The relations between hospitals and the public whom they serve are rapidly developing in recent years with the advancement in sanitary science. There has been greater progress in these matters in England than in America, in respect to the general establishment of sanitary control for the repression of infectious diseases. The admirable work of the Metropolitan Asylums Board in London stands as a model for the effective organization of hospitals and dis- infecting stations for the protection of the poor, and the whole com- munity alike, from the dangers of infectious and contagious disease. It has been demonstrated by experience that the value of a permanent isolation hospital is in its providing the means of isolating at once the earliest cases of dis- ’lg' * ease, and thus preventing the epidemic instead of leaving it to he battled with when it has got full sway. In Burdett’s work, the admirable chapters on this subject are most instructive. Valuable and precise in- formation as to the best methods may be found in that book, and in Dr. Thorne’s report On the Use and Influence of Hospitals for Infectious Diseases, which forms a part of the Tenth Annual Report of the Local Government Board for 1882. Among the plans given by Dr. Thorne is that of the Warrington Hospital. As a good type of such English hospitals, a plan of one of its small pavilions is shown in Fig. 1807. A common arrangement is to group together a number of such small pavilions, and to connect them by a covered way, open at the sides, with an administration block. The Warrington Hospital is of brick; its arrangement is shown in the block plan, Fig. 1808. There is a two-story administration block, a; two ordinary ward pavilions, w, w; a special detached pavilion with like interior arrangements, except that its wards are reduced to a capacity of one bed each, w; a lodge at the entrance, c; and two groups of out-buildings, b, cl. One of the latter contains a laundry, disinfect- ing chamber, ambulance shed, mortuary, and store for wood, coals, etc.; the other contains two hand-vans to be used in connection with the stove, and a store for garden tools, etc. These forms of pavilion are two of the four prescribed by the Local Government Board. TWELVE BED ■PAVILIO/1 Twelve Bed Pavilion, Warrington Hospital.