"WOUND -THE ATM ENT. G9 plete exposure of the wound under proper precautions. The dan- gers of infection and irritation by a renewal of the dressings have been much exaggerated. The inconvenience to the patient is almost of greater significance; and here there is another view to be taken of the matter. The patient will in all probability be more comfortable if the secretions are carried by drainage-tubes into the dressings, than if they remain shut up in the wound, even in an aseptic condition, awaiting absorption. From all that has been said, we conclude that a precise statement regarding the position of drainage in aseptic sur- gery is to-day impossible. It must remain with every surgeon to de- cide to what extent he can attain the ideal of no drainage and of healing under one dressing, with or without the moist blood-clot. His mastery of asepsis and the conditions under which he works will influ- ence him largely in his decision. There may exist, however, other indications for a change of dress- ings which are unequivocal. If the temperature of the patient, after the usual reaction of the first few days, when the thermome- ter is likely to register a few degrees above the normal, does not drop, and if his general con- dition indicates that absorption from the wound is going on, the dressings ought to be removed, and the necessary steps taken to insure free exit of the secretions, or of the blood clot, which the surgeon has not succeeded in keeping aseptic. It is a good plan, further, to apply in these cases a moist antiseptic dressing with Thiersch’s solution, or a solution of acetate of aluminum, as already described, whether the wound has been opened or not. In the latter event it may be possible to master the inflammatory symptoms without entirely sac- rificing primary union. It seems a better plan, in applying a moist dressing, to cover it with some impermeable material, such as rubber tissue or protective, than to rely on frequent irrigation for keeping it moist. If we are dealing with open wounds, a frequent change of dressings, once a day at least, is advisable, to guard against a too rapid development of micro-organisms, which shutting off the dressing with protective undoubtedly favors. It has been proposed to moisten only the deeper layers and to place over them a dry aseptic dressing. The full benefit of a warm and moist dressing is, however, better ob- tained in such cases by making it impermeable than otherwise. When the reaction has passed off, a dry dressing may be again employed. When soon after an operation a bloody or serous discharge appears on the external surface, it will suffice to protect the spot with a piece of sterilized or iodoform gauze, and to allow evaporation of the secretions to take place. If the discharge is more abundant, it will be proper to re- move the superficial layers, and to replace them by fresh pieces of gauze Fig. loTB