G32 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 3 Pittsburgh Med. Rev., Sept., 1894. 4 Brit. Med. Journ., 1892, vol. i., p. 503. more commonly it is the result of disease. In such cases Dennis has re- cently urged that an operation should be undertaken. Ceci was able, even two months after the accident—which had produced palsy, incon- tinence of urine, and coma—to evacuate a clot, and his patient recov- ered and regained all the motor functions except for slight paresis of the left hand. Stewart and Annandale 1 have reported a similar case, in which, however, the result was unfavorable, probably due to the de- lay before trephining. Tassi2 has reported a case which proved fatal on the seventh day from hemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery. Buchanan3 has reported a successful case operated on two months after the accident. Four ounces of bloody serum were evacuated from the opposite side to that of the injury. Harris4 also reports a suc- cessful traumatic case in which the symptoms were late in appearing. Certainly all would agree that the traumatic cases should be submitted to operation. Even the alcoholic cases of subdural hemorrhage would not be made worse by trephining, and the prospect of improvement would be very great. Usually the alcoholic cases are first seen by the physician, and the surgeon is not called until it is too late to do any operation. The symptoms in such cases, as Dennis has pointed out, are first an ill-defined, dull headache, most commonly in the vertex. As the clot accumulates paralysis will supervene. The position of the clot must be determined by the doctrines of cerebral localization. The pupils will be contracted and immobile, but will dilate as soon as the clot has increased to a sufficient size. This contraction of the pupil be- fore unconsciousness is of great diagnostic value. Optic neuritis will ordinarily supervene after a certain length of time. One of the most valuable symptoms is the final coma. The rapidity with which this sets in will depend upon the rapidity and extent of the hemorrhage. If then headache, drowsiness, paralysis, contracted and afterward dilated pupils, and optic neuritis are present, and the patient becomes comatose, with a previous history of alcoholism and without traumatism, the pre- sumption is very strongly in favor of pachymeningitis haemorrhagica, and as an operation could do no harm and might be followed by suc- cess, it would be proper to trephine or do an osteoplastic resection, followed by removal of the clot and probably by drainage. Operations for Meningocele, Encephalocele, and Hydrencephalo- cele. These three deformities of development are fortunately not very com- mon. The etymology of the names is equivalent to a statement of the malformations. Meningocele is a tumor caused by the protrusion of the membranes of the brain only, through an aperture in the bones of the skull, the sac being filled with cerebro-spinal fluid. Encephalocele is a tumor caused by the protrusion of a portion of the brain itself as well as of the membranes. The fluid in both these malformations is outside the brain substance. Hydrencephalocele is a tumor caused by protrusion, as in encephalocele, of a portion of the brain as well as of its membranes, but in this case the interior of the mass communicates directly with the 1 Brit. Med. Journal, 1887. vol. i., p. 877. 2 Centralbl. f. Chir., 1893, S. 675.