SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 590 ing is not suitable for drainage a second should be made, the drainage tube being passed through both openings. An ample dressing should then be applied. As occasion requires, the drainage-tube should gradu- ally be shortened until it can be removed. Sometimes there may be a re-accumulation of pus after apparent healing, when the wound must be reopened, the pus evacuated, and treatment instituted similar to that employed in the first instance. Occasionally such a re-accumulation will occur a long time after the primary abscess. If the diagnosis is well assured and no abscess is discovered by the first trephining, the abscess may possibly be at some other point, and a second and possibly a third trephine opening should be made, in order by no possibility to miss it. Intracranial abscess is necessarily a fatal disease, and nothing should stand in the way of its evacuation if it can possibly be reached. The technique of evacuation of pus in the tem- poro-splienoidal lobe and in the cerebellum, both frequent seats of ab- scess from ear disease, will be considered presently. Diseases of the Brain Arising from Suppurative Disease of the Middle Ear. Anatomy.—If we look into a skull, we will be struck with the fact that the petrous portion of the temporal bone forms a boundary between the middle and posterior fossae. Its upper edge, along which runs the superior petrosal sinus, forms the crest of a “watershed,'’ with a moderate declivity forward toward the middle fossa for the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, and a very sharp declivity backward into the posterior fossa for the cerebellum. Again, on the inside of the mastoid portion Fig. 1685. Fig. 1686. Mastoid Portion of Left Temporal Bone Laid Open and Viewed from Behind. A, mastoid cells extending from the mastoid process below, upward and inward over B, the lateral sinus; C, the zygoma. (Burnett.) Section of Mastoid Process Showing the Mas- toid Cells and their Communication with the Middle Ear.