INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 782 cal type of epithelial cell; secondary carcinoma presents the flat cell of oesophageal or laryngeal epithelioma. Of the sarcomata all varieties have been found in the thyroid. The chief clinical characteristics of malignant disease of the thyroid gland are rapidity of growth and extensiveness of adhesions, impediment to respiration and deglutition often out of proportion to the size of the tumor, early involvement of the lymphatic glands of the neck and mediastinum, and marked tendency toward metastatic dissemination. In very many cases of successful extirpation of malignant goitre, un- suspected deposits have been subsequently found in the lungs, liver, or spleen. The treatment of malignant goitre is most unsatisfactory. To relieve urgent dyspnoea it may be imperative to perform tracheo- tomy, an operation which under these circumstances is singularly fatal. Langenbeck reported seventeen cases without a recovery. In total ex- tirpation of the malignant growth lies the only hope of the patient. Exophthalmic Goitre.—In 1869 Eulenburg called attention to the development of the symptoms of Graves's disease as a consequence of goitrous growths. Tachycardia, huskiness of voice, and muscular tremor may be considered a result of mechanical irritation of the sym- pathetic and recurrent nerve filaments. Since Tillaux’s first extirpa- tion of the thyroid for Graves's disease in 1884, the term surgical Graves’s disease, as distinguished from the idiopathic form of exoph- thalmic goitre, has properly found acceptance. In all forms of Graves’s disease surgical treatment has been re- sorted to. Enucleation, partial extirpation, and resection have been practised in many cases without a death from the operation. Accord- ing to the recent tabulation of Freiberg,1 the symptoms were relieved by operative treatment of the surgical goitre in 9 out of 10 cases. Of 11 cases of true morbus Basedowii, 7 were reported cured by operation. In 9 of the cases, total or partial extirpation of the tumor was prac- tised. The fact that partial extirpation of the goitrous gland in true and surgical Graves’s disease is practically devoid of danger, has been established. Not so, however, the certain curability of the disease by operation. That many patients have been greatly improved cannot be questioned. In what proportion permanent and absolute relief has been given, cannot as yet be determined, since many cases have been reported within from only six weeks to six months of the operation. Only in a few cases, as in one of Riedel’s (three years), has sufficient time elapsed since the operation to allow the result obtained to be designated as perfect and permanent. 1 Medical News, 1893, p. 225.