362 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Yarix. In spite of the large number of new studies that are added each year to the extensive literature of varicose veins, our knowledge as to the morbid condition which is the primary cause of varix-formation ad- vances but slowly. The proliferation of tissue which causes the veins to become longer than is normal, and therefore to appear tortuous and serpentine, still remains an obscure factor in the pathology of the dis- order. Another factor, on the contrary, that of dilatation of the lumen and changes of thickness in the walls of the veins, has received consider- able elucidation by the work of Epstein, which has more recently been corroborated by Sack. It now appears that two conditions must be in force simultaneously in order that varices be formed; first, increased local blood-pressure and embarrassment of the return circulation, and, second, some spe- cific pathological condition as yet not satisfactorily defined. Von Lesser could not induce varicosities in animals by increasing the blood-pressure alone with the help of injections of plaster-of-Paris, and was therefore led to assume that the process active in the formation of varices was analogous to the growth of a tumor; and he believed this theory confirmed by the discovery, made by means of injections, that varicose veins were most generally situated superficially to the lym- phatics, and were therefore, in most cases, simply enlarged veins of the skin. Epstein made a special study of ectatic veins, and found that the cirsoid and varicose phlebectasise of the lower extremities showed ana- tomical changes in all the coats of the vessel-walls. The tunica media generally shows an eccentric hypertrophy, which in great degrees of dilatation becomes an eccentric atrophy of the muscularis; oftentimes, however, atrophy of the muscular coat may be observed with only moderate dilatation of the lumen of the vein. The media and adventitia present increased vascularization and a vary- ing infiltration with small round cells, while in the intima fibrous endo- phlebitis occurs, evidently compensatory in character, and analogous to plilebo-sclerosis. Epstein, therefore, believes that the primary cause of varix is the decreased resistance in the middle or muscular tunic, and considers the mechanical factors merely secondary in importance. In accordance with these views he sketches the course of the develop- ment of varicose veins as follows: (1) loss of resistance in the tunica media; (2) dilatation of the lumen; (3) compensatory endophlebitis; (I) eccentric hypertrophy; (5) (incases of greater dilatation) eccentric atrophy. The infiltration in the outer tunics is of the character of reparative inflammation. The predisposing causes of varix formation are general disorders of nutrition, and similar to those of phlebo-sclerosis (see page 0257). Ben- nett, wrho in addition to the element of pressure is fain to accept some factor at present unknown to us, ascribes the formation of varicosities in some cases to congenital defects in the venous apparatus, and even attributes these to hereditary influences. This element of heredity is brought forward by other writers as well (Fischer); and Soboroff has