1015 symphyseotomy; division of the symphysis pubis. fixed against the inferior margin of the articulation, while the assis- tant attends to the catheter as stated. The operator then introduces the symphyseotomy bistoury and hooks it around the articulation, cut- ting the interosseous ligaments and cartilage from within outward and from below upward. When the section has been completed it will be known by a creaking sensation and by a separation of the bones for from 1^ to 1^ inches. The wound is- now covered with gauze dipped in a bichloride solution of 1-1000, and the operator attends to the de- livery of the foetus, having at the same time the separation of the innominata antagonized by pressure with the hands of assistants. Dur- ing the passage of the head he ascertains the amount of pubic separa- tion, sprays the vagina, and, when the placenta is delivered, introduces six or more interrupted silk sutures into the edges of the wound ; then dresses it with sublimated cotton, 1-2000, and bandages the pelvis and lower extremities. It should be borne, in mind that there is no necessity for hurrying the foetus into the world, and that its delivery by the forceps may be accomplished safely, or with extensive lacerations of vagina and peri- neum, under a slow or rapid traction, respectively; and this caution is especially applicable to the cases of primiparse, who constitute a large proportion of the women to be operated upon, there having been 16 such out of 30 in the United States. The experience of American symphyseotomists, as well as those of Italy, has shown that there is no occasion to unite the pubic bones under any plan of restraint other than that afforded by external band- aging or by a pelvic corset. The German plan of wiring the bones to- gether keeps up the temperature of the patient, and the French method of passing stitches through the ligamentous tissues on either side of the symphysis, cannot be made use of where the direct incision of Sigault is not employed. Fixation of the pelvis by external support brings the pubic bones together, and the joint becomes firm, as a rule, in from two to four weeks. Spread of the Operation in 1892.—The fact that the Italians had saved 36 out of 38 women, and as many children, from January, 1886, to February, 1892, induced Professor Pinasd to make a trial of symphy- seotomy in Paris, and to advocate its general adoption as a substitute for craniotomy. It had only been performed once in France since 1833, but its reintroduction at once gave it an impetus that caused it to extend to ten other countries before the close of the year. There were 12 operations in Italy in 1891, and 85 in twelve countries in 1892, of which Italy had 11. Of the 74 cases not in Italy, France had 37 with 6 deaths; Germany 13, with 2 deaths; the United States 7, with no death; Russia 4, 1 lost; Austria 6, no death; Ireland 1, saved; Switz- erland 1, saved; Canada 1, saved; Brazil 2, saved; India 1, and Hol- land 1, lost. The maternal mortality for the year in Italy was 0, and elsewhere 13|- per cent.—not a very encouraging record for the rest of the world with its inexperience. The record of 1893 shows a remarkable increase in the number of operations in Europe and America, there having been more in the first six months than in the previous year. The death-rate of the women still remained high: 14 in 95, while that of the children was reduced to 12 in 95.