(1039) CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. BY EDWARD COWLES, M.D., SUPERINTENDENT OF THE McLEAN HOSPITAL, WAVERLEY, MASS. The remarkable advancement of scientific medicine during the last decade has been notably manifested in the special development of hos- pital construction. The admirable work on Hospital Construction and Management,” by Mouat and Snell, 1883, was superior to any before published on that subject. More recently, 1891, Burdett’s greater work on the Hospitals and Asylums of the World with its four large vol- umes and portfolio of plates, furnished not only a mine of information upon the construction, organization, and management of such institu- tions, but presented the results of exhaustive studies of their relations to the public. Still more recently a noteworthy volume has appeared on Hospitals, Dispensaries and Nursing, being the papers and dis- cussions in the International Congress of Charities, Correction and Philanthropy at the World’s Columbian Exposition at Chicago, edited by Drs. Billings and Hurd. The very facts of such a convention of in- terests that have hitherto seemed so scattered, and the bringing to- gether in one volume of a systematically ordered series of discussions of the many phases and details of hospital work and life, are eventful in the history of hospitals. That far-reaching and beneficent results are to follow from organization of these interests cannot be doubted. The principles established by the experiences of the civilized world in the care of the sick and wounded of the great wars in the third quarter of this century have been newly applied in the last ten years, in con- structive forms adapted to special purposes. These are to be seen in the devices called for by modern scientific surgery, in the rapidly spreading tendency to tbe building of small hospitals, even in towns and villages, and in the movement, well advanced in England but only fairly beginning in America, for the provision of hospitals for infectious diseases, which may lead to the creation of health stations for the pro- tection of every community by the prevention of disease. It is easy to trace’the activity in these three directions to a common cause—Ihe development of the new science of bacteriology. This science has shown the need of complexity of manipulation in aseptic surgery, which reduces the art to greater exactness that may be ac- quired by practice. Modern progress has tended to the development of