INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 710 ment of bone that will lodge there and materially delay the ultimate healing. On the other hand, the outside wound and the excavation in the mastoid hone should in every case receive the most thorough wash- ing with the bichloride solution. Opinions differ in regard to the question whether the outside wound should be left entirely open or be partly closed by sutures. Very few, I think, would venture to entertain the hope of securing primary union of the lips of the outside wound throughout its entire extent; but there are some who advocate the policy of keeping the parts in such a per- fectly aseptic condition that healing shall take place almost without the formation of pus. I am quite ready to admit that there are some cases in which this plan may perfectly well be adopted, but I think it will be found safer, in the long run, to permit a certain amount of pus-formation to accompany the granulating process. Have wre not facts in our possession, especially in the medical literature of former times, which justify us in believing that such a discharge, if kept within reasonable bounds, exerts a curative effect upon any deeper- seated inflammation that may still he smouldering in the vicinity? As regards the question wfliether the wound should be left entirely open or not, 1 do not believe that any fixed rule can be laid down. I almost always apply sutures to the upper horizontal portion of the wound, but in quite a number of instances the early occurrence of a chill, with a marked rise in temperature and perhaps a return of the pain, has compelled me to remove them and restore the worn® to its gaping con- dition. In all or nearly all of these instances the mastoid integuments, at the time of operation, have been a good deal congested and infiltrated. In this class of cases, therefore, I have at one time or another followed three different plans, and I cannot say which is most to be commended, as I have had reason at times to be dissatisfied with all of them. One method is to introduce one or two silver sutures in the horizontal por- tion of the wound and tie them very loosely, with the expectation of tightening them properly after the swelling and inflammation of the skin have subsided. In some cases this plan works satisfactorily, while in others the presence of the sutures seems to perpetuate the irritation and infiltration of the skin through which they pass. A second method is to leave the entire wound gaping until the skin has nearly returned to its natural condition, and then, after scraping away all intervening loose granulations, and washing the parts thoroughly with a fairly strong (1-2000 or 1-3000) bichloride solution, to bring the edges of the horizontal portion into accurate coaptation by means of the or- dinary silk sutures. There is only one objection to this plan; it in- volves the infliction of considerable pain, or the brief administration of an anaesthetic, both of which are unpleasant things for the patient. The third plan leaves out sutures altogether. The wound is allowed to heal by granulation, and the edges are coaxed together by the use of a pad applied against the auricle and kept pressing backward and upward by means of a bandage. The most serious objection to this method is this: a slight drooping of the auricle—recognizable, it is true, only when the patient’s face is closely scanned from in front—may be left as a permanent result. In patients of the male sex this slight lack of symmetry is a matter of no great importance, but in women it is scarcely permissible to leave any recognizable deformity of this nature.