319 TREATMENT OF THE CHANCROID. granular detritus, attended with a fetid odor and containing numer- ous bubbles of gas. While, undoubtedly, the action of hot water, applied in repeated baths, will often exercise a very happy effect in reducing inflam- mation and causing cicatrization of chancroids, this is not a method that commends itself either for the facility of its employment or for its speediness in curing, and Diday of Lyons, in the same journal, ridicules the deductions drawn by M. Aubert as to the action of heat in producing a cure and reducing the chances of inoculability of the chancroid. He does not deny its value as a therapeutic agent, but asks, if heat neutralizes the virulent properties of the chancroid while cold has the opposite effect, why it is that the face and head, which are parts of the body more exposed, and suffering probably from a lower temperafure, than the rest of the body, should be the places of all others where the chancroid is very seldom found, whereas, if Aubert’s theory were true, the cephalic chancroid ought to be of frequent occurrence; and why also is it that a chancroid seated upon the glans penis and covered over by a tight foreskin, where, as far as the question of heat is con- cerned the conditions would be most favorable for cure, is so liable to accident and to be attacked by acute and virulent inflammation? Cavazzani, in the Giornale Italiana clelle Malattie veneree della Pelle, etc., 1892, recommends an admixture of hydrate of chloral, 5 parts, camphor, 3 parts, and glycerin, 25 parts, as a dressing for the chan- croid, and declares that it produces a most happy result. He rec- ommends that the camphor and chloral shall be rubbed up together in a mortar, the glycerin then added, and the whole put over a sand- bath for a quarter of an hour. He claims excellent results from this remedy. For the treatment of buboes, Otis, in the Journal of Cutaneous and Genito- Urinary Diseases, 1893, recommends evacuation of the ab- scess by puncturing with a narrow bistoury, and the subsequent intro- duction, after irrigation of the cavity with a solution of mercuric chloride one part in 1000, of a warm iodoform ointment, ten per cent., the subsequent dressings to be wet in the bichloride solution; and he claims that of 16 patients thus treated 9 were reported cured in six days, 3 in twelve, 1 in fourteen, 1 in twenty-three, and 2 unknown. He claims for this procedure the following advantages:— 1. That it is simple and safe. 2. That in suitable cases, cure, as a rule, seems to be more rapid than by any other method. 3. That the patient is not prevented from going about during treat- ment. 4. That the first gland being rendered thoroughly aseptic, renders it less likely that the other glands in the chain shall become infected. 5. That it leaves no telltale scar. (In the present style of dress this point could really be of comparatively no importance.) 6. That it in no way interferes with any subsequent surgical proced- ure, should such be deemed advisable. In the Medical and Surgical Reports of the Boston City Hospital for 1894, Dr. Watson reports 22 cases of bubo treated by excision and the use of sutures, securing union of the wound by adhesion. He re- ports that in a little less than fifty per cent, perfect primary union was