78 DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. mucous membranes, caused by the inoculation of the only specific agent, the streptococcus erysipelatis (Figs. 1579, 1580, 1581), into a lesion of these parts. Of course, it may be said that it is easy enough to set up a definition, and then to declare only those cases to be really ery- sipelas which answer the postulate, and exclude all others. But this objection is weak enough, because, after all, we have to confine our- selves to one definition of the disease, or we shall never be able to make the diagnosis. It is self-evi- b Fig. 1579. Streptococcus erysipelatis, tococcus. 1580. dent that a great many ob- servers, otherwise perfectly reliable, deceived themselves and others by their reports, as long as they had to guess at the nature of the virus, and that they worked out hypotheses sometimes as in- genious as they were incor- rect. First of all, I must deny em- phatically that there is any- thing like spontaneous erysipelas. In most of those cases which were claimed to be such, it is not very difficult to trace the source of infection, and in others it might have been easy enough to do so, if attention had been called to the way of infection. The locality where most cases of the so-called spontaneous erysipelas occur, is the face, that is, a part of the body which is exposed, uncovered, to wind and weather, and to other mechanical and chemical influences of all kinds. If the face were examined daily with a magnifying-glass, there would always be found lesions of the skin big enough for the invasion of the poison. Besides, a great many cases of erysipelas of the face represent a continuation of an erysipelas existing in the mucous membranes of the cavities of the head, especially of the nose. This fact has not been taken into consideration enough by the advocates of the spontaneous genesis of erysipelas. That this erysipelas of the mucous membranes of the nose is not spontaneous either, is a matter of course, easy enough to understand if it be remembered how many persons have the habit of boring the fingers into the nose, which is the most frequent source of erysipelas of the face. Furthermore, it must be considered that ery- sipelas does not necessarily start and make its appearance at the point where the lesion of the integument takes place. It quite frequently shows itself at a certain dis- tance, the virus having wandered through the lymphatic ducts till it becomes established. How easily these first lesions, the place of entrance, may be overlooked, every- body knows who has the opportunity to observe other septic infections of a phlegmonous character. We see every day most severe phlegmons start from a little scratch, such, for instance, as butchers get from handling meat and bones. The cause of infection is clear enough here, though very often we are hardly able to find the Culture of strepto- coccus erysipelatis.