40 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. closed by the development of new tissues, and that larger defects are never entirely covered. The neuroglia is no doubt responsible for the regenerative activity displayed in brain substance, as the karyokinetic changes in the nuclei of its cellular elements show. Most observers, however, agree that karyokinetic figures are also seen in the nuclei of the ganglia cells. While it is held by some that such cells do not then further divide, it is asserted by others that the later stages of karyoki- nesis, resulting in complete final division, can be demonstrated in the embryo in the course of development, and in the adult after traumatism. The reparative processes after section of peripheral nerves have been most carefully investigated. After division of a nerve its distal part degenerates in all its ramifications, and is finally replaced b}^ new fibres grooving from the proximal portion into the degenerating distal end, or, at least, along the path marked out by it. This is the general mode of regeneration when the divided ends are separated from each other by some distance, however small. Primary union in peripheral nerves, if at all possible, is certainly of very rare occurrence in man, when we take primary union in the path- ological, not in the clinical sense, meaning by it an immediate union of the divided ends without degeneration. Experimental proof that the latter is not often met with is not wanting. When the sciatic nerve of the rabbit is divided only in its central portion, and the continuity of the entire nerve is, therefore, not disturbed, degeneration of the divided fibres on the distal side of the section nevertheless occurs, although it would appear that the conditions for primary union in this instance were the very best. Even clinical experience pointing to primary union of nerves must be accepted with some reserve. The return of sensibil- ity immediately, or very soon, after section of a nerve may take place through collateral nerve branches, and a really existing paralysis of small muscles, especially in the hand and arm, may be so disguised by the combined action of neighboring muscles, that a too hasty assumption of primary union may have been made in some of the cases reported. As regards the proximal end of the severed nerve, it is still an open question whether or not regeneration begins at the line of sectioii, or at a little distance, one or two centimetres, above it. Even in the first in- stance the extreme ends of the fibres degenerate as far as the first or sec- ond constriction in the sheath of the nerve. The first microscopical changes indicating regeneration are observed in the axis cylinders, which swell and separate into several branches at their ends. The latter lie within the nerve sheaths, which occasionally also contain remnants of the old fibre. As they grow in length they perforate the sheaths and spread out in the connective tissue or endoneurium surrounding the latter. Finally they also perforate the perineurium and epineurium. The proximal end of the divided nerve is thus converted into a mass of new nerve-fibres, evenly distributed throughout the connective tissue. During this stage the new axis cylinders have also received new sheaths, most probably derived from the nerve cells lying within the old sheaths, which have begun to multiply and show karyokinetic nuclear changes. It has been suggested by some that the new axis cylinders are them- selves developed from these proliferating cells. But it is more likely that the mode of regeneration from the original axis cylinder, above described, is the general one. Meanwhile the space between the ends