855 PERITONITIS. sized Keith's drainage tube should be passed into the pelvis, and this may be supplemented by strips of iodoform gauze leading from the ab- dominal wound into each flank. The wound should be only partly closed with silkworm-gut sutures, although others may be introduced, to be tied after the removal of the drainage. Where there is a paralytic condition of the intestinal walls due to hyperdistention, the question of enterotomy and evacuation through a large trocar, or of the establishment of a fcecal fistula, may arise. Where the general condition of the patient will admit of it, this pro- cedure will, in many cases, be of much assistance. No definite indica- tions can be laid down for the employment of either method. In gen- eral, they may be said to be most useful in cases where both cathartics by the mouth and enemata have failed to bring about movements of the bowels before operations have been undertaken. During operations for septic peritonitis every effort must be made to prevent shock. The patient should receive before the operation a stim- ulating enema of beef juice and whiskey, and should be warmly wrapped in flannels, with bot-water bottles so placed that the tempera- ture may be maintained. The operation must be completed with all the dispatch possible to good surgery. It is best to remove the patient to a hospital, whenever possible. The fatigue of removal in an ambu- lance is more than compensated by the advantage of trained assistants and conveniences for the operation. After-treatment of Septic Peritonitis.—Every effort must be made to establish reaction as soon as possible. External warmth and free stimu- lation are indicated. The hypodermic exhibition of morphine and atropine may be demanded, to relieve pain, but great caution is re- quired in their employment. If the reaction is satisfactory, the Leiter cold coil or ice bags may be applied to the abdomen over light, aseptic dressings. Vomiting, when persistent, is relieved by the discontinu- ance of all fluids by the mouth for a few hours. A very happy effect has been induced by the administration of the following:— Cocain. hydrochlorat gr. ij. Hydrarg. cblorid. mitis gr. ij. Cerii oxalat gr. xvi. M. Ft. chart, no. viii. Sig. A powder every hour or two. Occasionally champagne can be retained when the stomach rejects all else. If found agreeable it maybe given freely. Koumyss, Matzoon, or a reliable preparation of liquid peptonoids, may be given after twenty- four hours. When the powders above mentioned are not sufficient to produce a movement, stimulating enemata containing glycerin or tur- pentine should be given. It may be necessary to introduce the enema high in the colon by means of a long rectal tube, and a saturated solu- tion of Epsom salt may occasionally be used in this way with great advantage. The care of the drainage tube is of great importance; for the first twelve hours, the wick of iodoform gauze within the glass drainage tube need not be disturbed. Afterwards it should be changed at fre- quent intervals. The strips of gauze extending laterally into the flanks may be removed after two days, and the remaining sutures tied. The glass drainage tube will remain somewhat longer. It may be said that if the patient is in a favorable general condition,