HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. 919 removed varies in size from that of a “ bean” to that of a “cricket ball,” and in weight from a few grains to two or three ounces. Dr. Bellfield proposes that when the suprapubic operation fails to relieve the obstruction, and the urethral canal is not entirely patent, it should be supplemented by a median perineal urethrotomy. That is, he does a combined suprapubic and perineal operation. The mor- tality following the perineal operation is, according to Bellfield, nine per cent., and that of the suprapubic sixteen per cent. Moullin says of McGill's operations, that of the 94 cases of which he has been able to collect satisfactory notes, 19 have ended fatally, upward of twenty per cent. Fortunately two-thirds of all patients with prostatic enlargement go through life without requiring treatment. Many of them are uncon- scious of having hypertrophy; some of them suffer only from an increased frequency of passing water. Some of them require the occa- sional use of the catheter, and a large class habitually use this instru- ment to empty the bladder, and live for many years in this way in comfort. It is only when the overgrowth interferes with micturition, acting obstructively, that trouble begins. In a certain proportion of cases there comes a time when careful dieting, general hygiene, etc., with the constant use of the catheter, fail to give relief. The catheter is more and more difficult to introduce, and when withdrawn is followed by straining and tenesmus, and gives no relief to the sufferer. Cystitis comes on, the urine is ammoniacal, sleep is broken and disturbed, appe- tite fails, and breaking down of the general health soon follows. Medi- cine, general and local, fails to do any good, and it is by surgery alone that one can hope to prolong life. The electrical operations referred to, and the penile operations of Mercier and Gouley, need not be con- sidered—the results obtained from them may temporarily be satisfac- tory, but speedy relapse takes place. I do not believe that any surgeon who has tried both perineal and suprapubic prostatectomy will hesitate to select the latter operation in the future. The suprapubic opening gives more room for manipula- tion. The operation is very simple, the incision going through struc- tures where there is no blood-vessel or nerve large or important enough to have a name. The interior of the bladder is in view, and hemor- rhage from that organ is easily managed ; if hot water fails to control the bleeding, the bladder may be packed with iodoform gauze, as I have repeatedly done. In sixty-five suprapubic cystotomies for different purposes that I have performed, I have never seen the peritoneum, nor have had urinary infiltration. Drainage by this route is effected better than by the perineal opening. In the latter operation the posterior wall of the bladder is below the level of the wound, and some special arrangement of drainage-tubes, as proposed by Harrison and Watson, must be used to keep the bladder empty. The foregoing are the most important of the various methods sug- gested for the relief of symptoms attending- prostatic obstruction. If, however, the position taken by Mr. Harrison in regard to the etiology of prostatic overgrowth is correct, then all of these prostatectomies are illogical and valueless. Mr. Harrison says, and his observations are confirmed by others, that the first change is the sinking down of the posterior vesical wall, the presence of residual urine, the necessity for