55 WOUND-TREATMENT. more extracts the grease, which in the process of twisting has got into the interior of the strands. Fowler and Hodenpyl assert that boiling in 95-per-cent, alcohol will sterilize catgnt in one hour. Supported as this method is by experimental proof of its efficacy, it would certainly have been more rapidly accepted by the profession, were it not that the boiling of alcohol is attended by some risk and inconvenience. Fowler lately recommends boiling under pressure. His method is the fol- lowing :— The catgut is cut into lengths, folded, and placed, half a dozen strands or more, in an ordinary four-inch test-tube. This is filled with 95-per-cent, alcohol to within half an inch of the top, and a wad of cotton is jiushed into the mouth of the tube, and over this a cork is so placed as to be upon a level with the edge of the tube when its lower end rests against the cotton. Thus prepared, the tubes are placed inverted in a fruit-jar filled with alcohol of a percentage not lower than 95, and the jar is then hermetically sealed and placed in a water-bath. This is heated to slow boiling, and is kept at this point for one hour. The jar must be allowed to cool before being opened. Upon removing the tubes contain- ing the catgut, each one is carefully sealed over the cork by a layer of silicate of sodium. Fowler’s recommendation of boiling in alcohol has been tested in many New York hospitals and has given entire satisfaction. The dis- advantages of his method are evaporation of the alcohol, which is difficult to prevent, even in tight- ly closed vessels, and oc- casional exposure of the gut to a temperature of 90-95° C., which, if sus- tained for an hour, is lia- ble to injure the material. Dowd for this reason sug- gests the use of a con- denser of copper (Fig. 1562, a) in which lies a coil (b) wherein the va- pors of alcohol are con- densed, returning to the glass jar (c) which con- tains the boiling alcohol. This jar is suspended in a water-bath by means of the end of the coil, which is shaped into a hook (d). The water is heated to such a degree only as will insure boil- ing of the alcohol. The open end of the hook is plugged with cotton. Within the jar (c) are placed three small cylin- drical screw-topped jars (e), which in turn hold the catgut, wound on three reels. These smaller jars are also filled with alcohol, and their Fiar. 1562. Dowd’s Sterilizer.