136 HYDROPHOBIA. jumping up from the floor of the room in which he was kept under guard by his friends. When the symptoms in this case are taken in connection with the fact that the patient had been bitten by a cat which exhibited a pugnacious disposition, there is a strong presumption in favor of* the trouble having had its origin in the bite. The disorder developed in a month after the injury to the finger, and ran its course with paroxysms of nervous and muscular disturbance, terminating in death after four days of acute suffering. The spasm of the throat which prevented the swal- lowing of water or other fluids, the general excitement, the incessant movement of the limbs, increased by contact of currents of air with the body, and the frothing of the mouth in the later stages of his disturbance, render it clear that the patient labored under hydrophobia. It was evident that his mind was not deranged in a way to affect his appreciation of passing events, but he manifested a disposition to do many things of an extraordinary character, including an inclination to bite those who came in close proximity to him. There were on those days exacerbations of the spasmodic movements, and his neck and face were disfigured by considerable swelling. He seemed impressed with a conviction that death was near at hand, but did not give any intimation that he was aware of the nature of his disease. It may be stated that the cat was killed soon after biting this man, under the impression that it was suffering from rabies. There were a number of instances reported by the people in the neighborhood, in which dogs and cats had gone mad and had been killed. Some persons had been bitten by these animals, but no other case of hydrophobia had occurred. The “ mad-stone,” so called, had been used in some of those bitten, but in others no sort of treatment had been employed. There is found in the stomach of the deer a concretion of a porous nature, which has been applied to the wounds indicted by mad dogs, under the designation of “ mad-stone, ” and if it adheres to the part it is supposed that the poison is extracted. Any porous substance when moistened may, by capillary attraction, promote a discharge from a wounded surface to which it is applied, and it is claimed that the virus thus enters the interstices of the stone. In the cases now under consideration, a solid mass taken from a horse’s head, and hence inferred to be of an osseous nature, had been employed; hut in other instances, when nothing of the kind had been used, the per- sons bitten escaped in like manner, without any serious consequences. It seems that substances derived from various sources have received the designation of “mad-stone,” and among the common people have been accredited, but there is no proof of their efficacy. With the light before us in regard to the efficacy of intensive inoculations during the period of incubation of hydrophobia, in the re- duction of mortality to ^ of 1 per cent., those bitten by rabid animals should of course avail themselves of the Pasteur treatment. But there are many instances among those who are not informed of their danger until the onset of the disease, for whom antidotal measures might avail, if a true antidote should be discovered. Having observed the controlling influence of large doses of bromide of potassium and hydrate of chloral in the treatment of traumatic tetanus, I should be inclined to push this line of medication to the uttermost tolerance of the patient, should another case of hydrophobia come under my care. Let others deter- mine upon the course which seems most favorable for clinical experimen-