DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 508 t&DI D Fig. 1656. IJe=e4> Diagram of Cheap Gas-pipe Hip-Splint. Fig. 1655. and Up0n the care which it receives at the home of the wearer. It is not an apparatus which can be applied and left to the discretion of hospital patients. It must be seen to and adjusted constantly. It should be worn continuously, and the traction should be kept up by constantly winding the wind- lass as fast as it gets loose. (Fig. 1656.) The pa- tient will experience from this a sense of comfort not to be obtained in any other way, and will be the best judge of the amount of traction to be ex- erted. In general, however, as much traction as is bearable should be kept up. The splint does not furnish complete fixation, but is to a certain extent a fixation appliance, and pos- sesses the merit of exerting traction, which to the mind of most American orthopaedic surgeons is essential in certain stages of hip disease. The long splint cannot be so adjusted that a patient can walk upon it without modifying the traction at each step, thus producing a jar upon the sensitive joint; consequently it is advisable, if the best results are to be obtained, that the patient should be provided with a high sole upon the well foot, and should walk upon crutches so as to allow the diseased leg to swing, without having even the bottom of the splint touch the ground. It is also essential as a part of the treatment that the patient should during a part of the day be quiet, preferably upon his back. No diseased hip-joint can be so perfectly protected that the patient can go about with entire impunity, and it is desirable that he should be in bed certainly more than half the time. Modifications of this splint have been made which exert less traction, such as the perineal crutch of Dr. Judson, which aims at effecting only very slight trac- tion, if any, and is so balanced that the centre of grav- ity is higher than in the ordinary splint, and walking is easy. (Fig. 1657.) The splint in a modified form is manufactured very cheaply, and is spoken of as the New York Polyclinic splint. To my mind it is defi- cient, inasmuch as it exerts practically no traction, and should be regarded only as a protection splint. The splint of Dr. Phelps is perhaps one of the most important modifications of the long traction splint. (Figs. 1658, 1659.) This aims not only at securing bet- ter fixation than the common splint, by an arm encir- cling the thorax, but it also provides theoretically a cer- tain amount of lateral traction in addition to that 1657. Windlass and Exten- sion as used in Long Traction Splint. Judson’s Perineal Crutch.