1056 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. dens and pleasure grounds, at Belvidere. The Fever Hospital was begun in 1870, the first pavilion being of wood. In 1879 the erection of brick about £30,000. A remarkable reduction has been made in the death- rate of the city since the opening of this hospital, due to a variety of causes, not the least among them being the efficient labors of Dr. Eus- sell, the Officer of Health. This hospital affords a most striking dem- onstration of the profit of guarding the public health. The English have realized, more than any other nation, the impor- tance of isolation of infectious patients. In other European countries, like preventive measures against infectious diseases are enforced. There are established regulations for sanitary inspection and the organization of hospitals. Many forms of disinfecting apparatus have been in- vented; some of them are stoves employing dry heat, but steam is com- monly used to gain a high temperature, and for applying moist heat in the disinfecting chamber. Some of these disinfectors are portable, and, being comparatively inexpensive, can be supplied to the several districts of large cities, and to smaller towns. A number of illustrations of these are given in A Treatise on Public Health, by Palmherg and Newsholme. The work is largely a translation from the French, pub- lished by Macmillan & Co. in 1893. The great expense of steam disin- fectors delays their introduction into this country. There is an ap- paratus at moderate cost, now widely used in the smaller towns of Denmark, made by Eeck, of Copenhagen, and by the Blackman Ven- tilator Company in London. It is 3x3x7 feet, and costs about $350, including boiler and fittings. It works upon the principle of keeping the steam under a slight constant pressure in contact with the contents for thirty minutes. The wetting of the disinfected articles, by the con- densation of steam upon opening the chamber, is prevented by allowing a stream of cold water to flowr through the apparatus after the steam has been shut off. The Cambridge Hospital, in Massachusetts, has recently received an addition of a building for infectious and contagious diseases. It is on the grounds of the hospital, at an effective distance from it, and near the bank of the Charles Kiver. The material is brick, and the sym- metrical halves of the building are so arranged as to be entirely inde- pendent, and without means of communication except by going around the house, out of doors. It is of one story, except that a nurse’s room in the attic for each section is accessible by an outside stairway. The plan is shown in Fig. 1810. The construction is simple and sub- City of Glasgow Hospital. Fig. 1809. pavilions was begun, and now all are substantial structures of that mate- rial. Ample and excel- lent accommodations are furnished for physicians and nurses. The cost of the Fever Hospital was about £76,000. The Small-pox Hospital is completely isolated by a boundary wall. The whole cost of it was