559 CONGENITAL ABSENCE OR DEFICIENCY OF BONES. violence during delivery, in a foot presentation, is obtainable. Occa- sionally an anterior displacement is encountered. The plan of long-continued extension, as practised by Dr. Buck- minster Brown, consumes so much time and requires such absolute con- trol of the patient that it will seldom succeed. Prolonged extension, however, for six months or a year, is essential so as to bring the femoral head well into position before resorting to mechanical meas- ures. Bradford 1 has devised an apparatus which permits continuous extension both in the supine and in the sitting position. Mechanical Appliances.—A wide waist and pelvic band, made of leather and fitted accurately over a plaster cast of body and thighs, with locking and unlocking hip-joint, is useful.2 A long Taylor or other extension hip splint is, after extension in bed, most helpful, and subsequently a walking splint should be worn. Operative Measures.—The most favorable cases for operation are those in which the bone is freely movable. Hoffa's3 plan of procedure is to free the trochanter from all the retaining muscles, bring the head of the bone forcibly downward and forward into its normal site, and excavate the rudimentary acetabulum as deeply as the thickness of the ilium will permit. The saving of the head is an important element.4 In the discussion upon this subject before the German Surgical So- ciety, Hoffa said that the operation should be performed between the third and sixth years, as the head and neck of the femur afterward become altered, and it is then impossible to draw the head down to its normal site. When the deformity is double, the ligamentum teres is usually absent, causing a slip, or sound, on rotation, in which case an operation is unde- sirable. The consensus of opinion is not in favor of operative over me- chanical methods. Congenital Absence or Deficiency of Bones. The bones of the lower extremities are more commonly absent than are those of other portions of the body. The cause may be inferred to be the same influences of position, etc., that make club-foot much more frequent than club-hand. Occasionally all the extremi- ties are absent, the trunk alone being present. More frequently one extremity is absent, or so dwarfed, distorted, and misshapen that its components are barely recognizable. The head and neck of the femur may be distorted, or a large portion of the shaft may be missing, the thighs being much shortened; in one case under my care, the dis- tance from perineum to knee was less than an inch. Congenital crural asymmetry is not uncommon, the difference in length of the thighs sometimes amounting to an inch or more. Tilting of the pelvis is common in these cases, but lateral curvature only occasionally re- sults. 5 The fibula is occasionally absent, or it may be represented merely by a band of tissue. 1 Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1891, p. 308. 2 Phila. Med. Times, Nov., 1880. 3 Trans. Twenty-third Congress German Surgical Society, April 18, 1894; Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., July 21, 1894. 4 Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1891, vol. iv., p. 139. 5 Centralblatt fur Orthop. Chirurg., Juli. 1885; Trans. Amer. Orthop. Assoc., 1891, p. 15.