886 HERNIA. membrane and out through the peritoneum to the outside. It is then carried over the free (cut) edge of the bowel again to the inner side and through, and this in-and-over suture is continued (as shown in the drawing) until the bowel has been perfor- ated by the needle from the mucous mem- brane side out to the peritoneal surface, just at the beginning of the attachment of the mesentery to the intestine. The suture is then carried over the cut edge of the mesentery around and back through the mesentery at the same depth from the edge as with the intestine, then back again over the cut edge of the mesentery, and on in like manner for the opposite side of the gut to a point of emergence about one- eighth of an inch from the point where it entered. The two ends of the thread are now ready for the insertion of one segment of the button. This is grasped by the for- ceps and is carried into the end of the bowel, deeply enough to allow the gut to he snugly folded around the central shaft or stem, when the two ends of the thread are tied into a single knot and are drawn upon. Like the mouth of a reticule that is being closed, the wall of the intestine is folded and puckered until it fits tightly around the cen- tral shaft of the button, as shown in Fig. 1738, when the knot is com- pleted and the threads are closely cut off. Examining this end of the bowel, it is readily seen that when the op- posite half of the button has been in like manner applied, and has been pushed into this, there will be nothing but the peritoneal surfaces of the gut in contact. If the mucous membrane should become everted, or if the thread has not been so thrown over the mesentery as to invert this thoroughly, and bring the peritoneal surfaces in apposition, there will be failure of union, sloughing, and perforation at these points. The whole success of the operation rests upon the careful application of the but- ton. The other half is applied in the same manner as the first, and then the two are brought together with the smaller invaginated into the larger. By pressing them steadily together they close until the peritoneal surfaces are snugly in contact, and the operation is com- pleted. In this operation, as in end-to-end suture, the greatest care must be taken to prevent any foreign substance from entering the peritoneal cavity. It is well to add that while a fair degree of success has already attended the use of this apparatus, it is at this date still on trial, though it is to be hoped that it may prove so efficient that its employ- ment will become permanently established in the surgery of the intes- tinal tract. While almost any cool and careful surgeon can make an approximation by this apparatus, there are very few, comparatively, who have the experience or the skill necessary to do an end-to-end anastomosis by suture within a reasonable limit of time. It must not be forgotten, however, that a number of fatal cases have already Fia;. 1738. Bowel Puckered Around the Murphy Button.