707 TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTOID OPERATION. case of vessels situated in that part of the wound which is afterward to he closed by sutures. In the case of a weak person, or when the surgeon or a competent assistant cannot visit the patient within six or eight hours after the operation, the safer rule is to apply a ligature to the posterior auricular—the only artery that is large enough to fur- nish any considerable loss of blood. In a few cases the bleeding from the vessels in the substance of the mastoid bone, after the chiselling has laid bare the deeper cellular structure peculiar to this region, is quite copious. Hot water seems to exert very little influence upon this diffuse bleeding from vessels within the bone, and we may be forced to stuff the cavity with iodoform gauze and patiently wait for the bleed- ing to stop. Landmarks that May be Used in Searching for the Mastoid An- trum,.—When the bleeding from the soft parts covering the mastoid process has been stopped, the surgeon may proceed, without further delay, to cut away by the aid of chisels and Volkmann's spoons those portions of the bone which conceal from view the mastoid antrum. The exact location of this small cavity should be kept constantly before his mind’s eye as he removes, hit by bit, the intervening bone substance. Without artificial help of some kind, this is no easy task. The best natural landmark, the curving edge of the entrance to the external auditory canal, is not constantly in view, owing to the presence of blood in sufficient quantity to conceal it. Then, too, the very first steps of the chiselling may so alter the picture as to make the operator feel that he must again and again take note of his bearings before he can safely remove more bone substance. What is needed, therefore, is some artificial landmark which shall always lie visible to the operator, even when the average amount of bleeding is going on, which shall remain immovably fixed in the same position, and which shall not hamper the operator in any of his manipulations. The mastoid hook guide, pictured in Fig. 1701, answers these requirements in a fairly satisfactory degree. The retractor shown in Fig. 1702 is first applied to the soft parts constituting the anterior flap of the wound, and the whole is drawn well forward so as to bring the posterior and upper edge of the bony external auditory canal into view. Then the steel hook guide is to be hooked into the canal from above, between the soft parts and the bone, and the roughened tip of the hook is to be kept, by an assis- tant, pressed firmly against the upper wall of the canal. The round knob of steel on the convex side of the hook will then be found to stand up conspicuously in front of the area of bone surface which is to be removed by chiselling. The sides of the pit which the operator is about to make in the bone should converge toward a point seemingly situ- ated directly behind this knob of steel; or, to speak more correctly, toward a point in a transverse vertical plane which runs parallel to one passing through the steel knob, and which, at the same time, is only a short distance (from i to ^ inch) from it. The use of the word “be- hind” has reference, of course, to the relations which exist when the body is in the vertical position, and the assistant who holds the hook in position can facilitate the operator’s estimate of these relations by keep- ing it constantly in the line of the vertical axis of the patient’s body. The Proper Mode of Using the Chisels and the Volkmann Spoons.— Two or three simple rules will suffice to guide the beginner in his em-