INJURIES OF THE BACK. G52 rences. The symptoms of the chronic form (following Thorburn) may be: (1) psychical, including epileptiform attacks and hysterical insanity, (2) motor, including paralysis and contractures of the limbs, and spe- cial effects upon such organs as the larynx and the bladder; (3) sen- sory ansesthesia, hypersesthesia, and parsesthesia of the general or special sensory nerves; and (4) vasomotor, secretory, and trophic changes. In most cases there are al£o symptoms which are rather to be regarded as the effects of combined neurasthenia. With reference to the prognosis, Thorburn says that if there is no pecuniary complication, that is, if the patient has no claim for dam- ages because of the accident, and if proper treatment is promptly insti- tuted, complete recovery within a few weeks may be confidently expected; if, in the same absence of pecuniary complications, treatment has been delayed, recovery will require more time. If, on the other hand, the patient has a claim for compensation, the symptoms will be markedly aggravated and recovery will be delayed until after the set- tlement of the claim; everything, in such a case, tends to fix the idea and to rivet the suggestion on a mind weakened by the worry of legal proceedings, and by the fear of the popularly accepted fate of the vic- tim of “railway spine.” In the male the symptoms appear to be more fixed than in the female. A neurotic tendency, hereditary or acquired, and chronic alco- holism make the prognosis worse. Marked fluctuation in the symp- toms, in degree or place, is highly favorable. The indications for treatment are to improve the general condition and diminish the neurasthenic prostration, and as far as possible to avoid all that tends to fix the morbid ideas. Separation from friends and relatives is advisable, cold bathing, over-feeding, massage and faradism of the paralyzed parts. The bromides are to be avoided, be- cause of their tendency to increase the neurasthenia. It is said that good results have been obtained by hypnotism.