6 INFLAMMATION. citing cause), incised wounds, punctured wounds with rough instru- ments, the presence of foreign bodies in wounds, mechanical violence, contusion of living tissues, the presence of a clot of blood in a wound, slight persistent mechanical irritation, the effects of heat and certain minerals, the poisonous action of secretions of animals, and last, but most important, the action of bacteria or their products. It is one result of the later experimental science that there appears to be ground for the belief in the possibility that most of these exciting causes, cer- tainly as their results are seen in practice, are not true exciting causes at all, but must be placed among the predisposing causes; as, for example, ii such a case as is quoted by Yan Buren, as follows:1— “A gentleman of 28, in full health, stripped himself entirely on returning home from business on an exceptionally hot day, and threw himself on a lounge before an open window, to cool off before dressing for dinner. He fell asleep, heedless of a thunder-storm accompanied by a decided fall in the temperature, and awoke thoroughly chilled. On the same night he was seized with a rigor, which proved to be the initial symptom of an acute general peritonitis which terminated fatally within a week.” In such a case as this, it is hardly fair to ascribe the inflammation to the effect of cold, pure and simple, for if its etiology be the same as in all other cases of peritonitis that have been investigated by proper bac- teriological methods, the peritonitis was produced by the activity of a definite form of bacterium, and the chilling acted merely as a predis- posing cause, probably diminishing the cliemiotactic power of the cor- puscles of the body. The mass of evidence that has been collected of late years, favoring the belief that active forms of inflammation and suppuration are due to bacterial activity, hardly warrants the conclusion reached by Sternberg,2 that the inference that no pus formation can occur in the absence of micro-organisms of this class (those found in acute abscess) is a mistaken one, and that certain chemical substances introduced be- neath the skin give rise to pus formation quite independently of bac- teria. It is true that among the substances tested, which have given a positive result, are nitrate of silver, oil of turpentine, strong liquor ammonise, cadaverine, etc., and that the demonstration has always been made, apparently, that cultures of pus cocci when sterilized by heat still give rise to pus formation, when injected subcutaneously. In regard to this subject I must hold to the position expressed some years ago, when, in a discussion upon the conditions underly- ing the infection of wounds,3 1 made the following statements, first quoting the conclusions of an article read before the American Sur- gical Association several years before:— As far as the experiments go, they tend to show that no form of the suppu- rative process in man is unattended by the presence of bacteria. . . . This conclusion, that of the dependence of the suppurative process upon bacteria, is very strongly supported by the most recent evidence of the best-equipped workers in the field of bacteriological research. This assertion indeed does not need to be very considerably modified even now, although, in the face of such work as can be quoted, it cannot be said that actually no suppuration, or at 1 Yol. I., page 73. 2 Manual of Bacteriology, page 263. 3 Transactions of the Congress of American Physicians and Surgeons, vol. ii., page 71, 1891.