EXPLORATION OF THE URETHRA AND BLADDER. 949 save in cases in which the bladder is extremely irritable. Fenwick,1 whose experience with the cystoscope has been very great, gives the fol- lowing conditions under which he employs anaesthesia: “ (a) in females, for delicacy; (b) in tuberculosis, or similar cases where the prostatic urethra is extremely sensitive; (c) in order to make a leisurely prog- nosis of a discovered growth so as to determine the expediency of operat- ing.” Willy Meyer, of New York, in. his excellent article on Cystos- copy in Morrow's System of Genito-Urinary Diseases, Syphilology, and Dermatology, says about narcosis that “the cases are comparatively rare in which we have to resort to its help.” As to local anaesthesia, with cocaine, this bears the indorsement of Nitze and Fenwick. The latter '2 says that, when necessary, a drachm or more of a tweuty-per-cent solution of cocaine may be injected into the bladder. He has never met with any untoward experience with it, and says that he has “used injections of the drug continually in large out-patient practice, and has never seen any case presenting symptoms of so-called cocaine poisoning.” Meyer3 has not been so for- tunate, having had, after a large experience in the use of cocaine, a case in which the patient narrowly escaped death after the injection of 50 cubic centimetres of a two-per-cent, solution. He also quotes a fatal case of Albarran’s, in which the injection of two ounces of a one-per-cent, solution was followed, within a few minutes, by con- vulsions and death. In view of these experiences, the possible danger of cocaine should be borne in mind. While the question of anaesthesia must be settled by the circumstances of the individual case, the major- ity of examinations may be made without resorting to it. The instrument, having been introduced, should first be carefully moved so as to be sure that its beak is not in contact with the walls of the bladder. This being ascertained, the exploration of the organ may be begun. By first maintaining tbe beak of the instrument directed upward, then turning it to one side, and then to the other, all parts of the surface, except tbe trigone, will be brought successively into view. By now lowering the handle and reversing the position of the beak, the trigone, together with the orifices of the ureters, will be seen, and the inspection may thus be completed. The mucous membrane of the bladder in health is of a yellowish or reddish-yellow color. Small blood-vessels can be seen running through it in a tortuous manner, and bundles of muscle fibres (the detrusor muscle), in some parts presenting a trabecular arrangement, can be observed. The ureteral orifices are seen as prominent spots projecting at the posterior angles of the trigone, and by watching them, the urine can be seen to issue from them in a succession of fine streams or jets. Meyer4 has observed that this occurs at intervals of from thirty to sixty seconds. By practice with the cystoscope, any variation from the healthy appearance of the interior of the bladder can be detected. In skilled hands the instrument is a highly valuable means of diagnosis. By its aid may be discerned morbid states of the vesical wall—cystitis, chronic cystitis, hemorrhagic cystitis, tubercular disease of the mucous mem- 1 Epitome of Urinary Surgery, p. 122. Bristol, 1894. 2 Electric Illumination of tbe Bladder and Urethra, 2nd Edition, pp. 72-73. 3 Loc. cit., p. 457. 4 Loc. cit., p. 472.