127 HYDROPHOBIA. 5 p.m.—Collapse. Cessation of cries, and cyanosis. White, frothy saliva flowed from the mouth with each expiration. Subconjunctival ecchymosis. Cor- neal reflex almost absent. 0 p.m.—Eyes largely opened; pupils dilated; corneas dry. Profuse cold sweat. Respiration irregular. Tympanites. 7 P. M.—1Twenty-two respirations per minute, and very irregular. Pulse thready and tremulous, and could not be counted. Head burning; extremities cold. Pupils very large. One hour later, dead. M. Roux made inoculations with the spinal cord in rabbits, which died with the typical symptoms of rabies, thus con- firming the diagnosis from clinical observation. The prevailing opinion of the profession is that this disorder consists in disturbance of the spinal nervous system, without any material in- volvement of the brain or the intellectual faculties, and that it results from inoculation of the virus from rabid animals. Facts sustain the position that a toxic condition developed in dogs, cats, wolves, foxes, etc., is propagated by their bites to other animals, and to human beings. This is followed by a certain train of symptoms, accompanied by spasm of the muscles, of the throat, and inability to swallow fluids. This con- dition is followed by rapid exhaustion of the vital forces, which usually terminates fatally in from two to five days. The largest number of cases occur within thirty days from the in- fliction of a bite, but they may be delayed for one or two years, or even a longer period. The poison remains inactive until some adven- titious circumstance develops its effect. The original article upon this subject, in the first volume of this work, covers the ground occupied by the investigations up to that time. It will be supplemented by some data of a general nature, after which my personal experience with hydrophobia will be presented. The spinal cord of infected animals gives marked indication's of the poison, but the spinal fluid is not infectious, and no toxic property has been eliminated from any of the secretions or tissues of the body. While the saliva conveys the disease when introduced beneath the cuticle, no specific micro-organism has been detected in it or other fluids. It was observed by Holman that concentrated virus injected under the skin did not infect animals, and even gave immunity to some ex- tent in dogs, rabbits, and monkeys. The “ virus fixe” was used by Ferran by injection into the subcutaneous tissues of man in his treat- ment of hydrophobia; but such injections sometimes proved fatal to dogs in the series of cases subjected to the action of this virus by Pasteur. The great problem of the propagation of rabies from one dog to another by inoculation, has been satisfactorily solved by Pasteur’s experiments. He has also demonstrated the practicability of protect- ing dogs from the disease by repeated introduction of the attenuated virus; and no doubt if human beings would submit to repeated injec- tions as a prophylactic measure, they might in like manner secure im- munity. The effort to arrest the progress of rabies in the human sys- tem during the incubating stage, after the infliction of bites by rabid animals, has been crowned with a measure of success; but this result depends upon the antidotal effect of the attenuated virus upon a differ- ent basis from its prophylactic virtues. It is now held by some author- ities that an animal may be to such an extent under the influence of rabies, during incubation, as to propagate the disease; and if so, a