UTERINE FIBROIDS. 1007 tion. but it seems to be followed by less favorable results in the fibro- cystic and soft cedematous growths than in others. In any operation for the removal of the uterine appendages for the cure of uterine fibroid, the surgeon should be prepared to remove the whole tumor or even to do a supra-vaginal hysterectomy, since he may find that the lesser operation is impracticable. The operation of castration is not applicable to the following cases: in- traligamentous tumors which are producing urgent pressure symptoms; very large tumors; fibro-cystic tumors; and teleangeiectatic tumors. Complete removal of the uterus is, moreover, an operation now attended with such a small mortality that it is often preferred to castration, the beneficial results of which do not appear so promptly. Supra-Vaginal Hysterectomy.—The operation of supra-vaginal hysterectomy has passed through several stages in its evolution toward the state of surgical perfection which it has now attained. Discussion on this subject has been in regard to the treatment of the stump or pedicle: one school of surgeons urging the use of the clamp or noeud; and the other advocating the intraperitoneal treatment, or dropping the stump after haemostasis has been secured, and closure of the abdomen. The discussion is similar to that which took place in regard to the treatment of the pedicle in ovariotomy. The extraperitoneal treatment of the stump has had its day. From a surgical point of view it is far from ideal; and, as the statistics of the intraperitoneal method are now even better than those of the extraperitoneal, no valid argument can be brought forward for continuing the use of the latter. Bantock, an able advocate of the extraperitoneal method of treating the pedicle, has a mortality of a little under 15 per cent.1 Some statistics have been already given (Chrobak, Rosthorn, Baer) which show that the uterus can be removed and the abdomen closed with a mortality under 4 per cent. Martin's statistics2 are of interest in a comparison of the two methods. He reports 97 operations, in 43 of which the stump was treated extraperitoneally, with a mortality of 30.2 per cent., while in 54 where the intraperitonetal method of Chrobak was followed, the mortality was 9.5 per cent. In the method of operating, as developed by Chrobak and other sur- geons, no uterine tissue is included in the ligatures. The ovarian and the uterine arteries are ligated, and after all the blood supply has thus been cut off from the uterus, this organ is removed. There is no more danger of hemorrhage after doing this than there is when a vessel is ligated in any other surgical operation. The essential steps of this operation are as follows. Slight modifica- tions have been made according to the taste of individual operators. The ovarian artery is ligated on each side by a ligature passed through the infundibulo-pelvic ligament. A second ligature is placed nearer the uterus on each side to control bleeding from the uterine end of the ovarian vessels. The broad ligament is then divided imme- diately inside of the first ligatures. The peritoneum is incised around the cervix immediately above the reflection from the bladder. The 1 British Gyn. Journal, May, 1893, p. 83. 2 Centralblatt fur Gyn., No. 20, 1893.