VIRULENCE OF CHANCROIDAL BUBOES. 317 Mannino, in a communication made to the Royal Academy of Medical Sciences of Balano, in Italy, and reported in the Annates de Dermatolo- gie et Sypliiligraphie for 1885, boldly takes his stand with M. Straus in disbelieving in the spontaneous existence of the chancroidal bubo, and he gives as the result of his investigations the following points: In 2d patients who had an inguinal bubo and in whom the bubo showed all the characteristics of the chancroidal variety, as well as of the simple chancroid, inoculation was practised at the moment of open- ing the buboes, with the pus coming from both the superficial and deep parts of the ulceration. All antiseptic precautions were taken, both as regards the hands and the instruments used, and Mannino says that in all of these 2d cases he had not seen any ulcerations produced upon those portions of the body where he had inoculated the pus of the bubo. The results of his inoculations had always been negative. He then repeated the inoculation in all these 2d cases forty-eight hours or three days after the opening of the buboes, and only in two cases did he obtain a positive result. In the other 22 cases the results of these second inoculations were also negative. Mannino also examined the pus of the chancroids microscopically, as well as that coming from the buboes at the time of their opening, and he noticed in all 2d cases a large quantity of microbes in the pus cells as well as in the fluid surrounding them. These microbes he considered to be micrococci united in chains, some- times surrounding the cells themselves, and his conclusions in regard to this question are:— 1. That the pus of the bubo which accompanies the simple chancre is not inoculable at the time that the bubo is opened. 2. In certain cases this pus acquires virulent characteristics from forty-eight hours to three days after the opening of the bubo. 3. That in the pus of the chancroid bacilli are plentifully found in the shape of large numbers of micrococci united in chains, or sparsely scat- tered over the field. d. That the pus of the bubo immediately after its opening has never been found to contain bacilli, nor micrococci, nor diplococci. 5. That the pus of the chancroid, when this latter has become a sim- ple wound, no longer contains bacilli. 6. On examining the pus of the bubo, after it has become chancroi- dal, the bacillus of the chancroid has disappeared; and 7. That the poison of the chancroid loses its virulence when it has been submitted to the action of heat, more or less prolonged, at a tem- perature of 35 to d0° C. (95 to 10d° F.). Gemyin the Annales de Dermatologie et Sypliiligraphie, 1885, gives as a resume of 20 inoculations which he had made, d in which the re- sults were positive, 3 in which they were doubtful, and 13 in which they were absolutely negative, and his conclusions are as follows:— 1. The simple chancre (chancroid) in a certain number of cases has no complications, as far as the groins are concerned. 2. When it is accompanied by an adenitis, this is purely inflammatory in about three-fourths of the cases, and the pus which it contains is not virulent. In the other quarter of the cases the bubo is the product of the transportation of a micro-organism, the contagious agent, through the lymphatic vessels, this being retained in the first set of inguinal ganglia and there producing chancroidal bubo.