269 SARCOMA. were frequently multiple, and metastasis was common, the duration of the symptoms varying from two weeks to eighteen months before death. They were particularly noteworthy in that they did not cause constric- tion of the bowel like carcinomata, but rather a pouchlike dilatation, whence the absence of intestinal obstruction and of distinct tumor, which was characteristic of so many. In four cases operations wete performed, and two patients recovered, but no late reports exist as to the permanency of the cure. In the large intestine sarcoma appears to be even rarer than in the small. The spleen is sometimes attacked with sarcoma, usually of the lym- phoid type, and several such cases have been subjected to operation, successfully as far as immediate recovery is concerned; these were the cases of Flothmann, Asch, and Kocher. Sarcoma of the Kidney.—-The kidney is not infrequently attacked by sarcoma, especially in children, this being the most common form I of malignant tumor at an early age. Formerly a hopeless condition, it would appear that at last surgeons are beginning to make some advance in its treatment. In 100 cases of nephrectomy for malignant tumors of the kidney collected by Barth, although the mortality was very high, reaching 42 per cent., 7 patients remained well for two years, 1 for three years, and 2 for four years. Israel has recently given a sum- mary of his work in this direction, having had 2 deaths and 2 re- currences in 11 cases, the rest remaining well for less than one year in 4 cases, for over two in one, for four in one, and for five in one case, two cases of long duration having been examples of sarcoma. Abbe too has recently related two cases of nephrectomy for sarcoma in chil- dren respectively fourteen months and two years old, who remained well 1 year and 1£ years after the operation, both tumors having been very large. In one case a portion of the kidney was healthy, and was left, the tumor being separated from it. I have already commented upon the occurrence of striped muscle fibres in kidney tumors, and similar cells are found in the sarcomata of that organ. Bibbert has collected seven such cases from surgical lit- erature, and has added one of his own, in which the pelvis was dis- tended by multiple polypoid growths of the structure referred to, so that the case was remarkable for the gross as well as for the micro- scopic appearances of the specimen. Sarcoma of Serous and Synovial Membranes and Tendons.— Sarcoma of the serous membranes is unusual, but cases have been re- ported by Lane of a general fibro-sarcomatous change of the perito- neum, and by Hofmokl of sarcoma of the pleura (mistaken for pyo- hsemothorax), in a three-year-old boy. Garre and Weir report cases of sarcoma of the knee-joint capsule, and Markoe and Weir of the sheaths of the tendons. Garre’s case occurred in a tuberculous woman, and was mistaken for tuberculous arthritis, but was treated by amputation, in spite of which metastasis occurred and the woman died. It was thought that the tumor might have originated in the bone. In Weir’s three cases the tumors were localized ; in one the limb was amputated, and in two the growth excised, and in one of the latter the patient was known to be well several years afterward. In the tendon-sheaths the