701 TREATMENT OF EYE DISEASES BY SUBCONJUNCTIVAL INJECTIONS. Treatment of Eye Diseases by Subconjunctival Injections. This method and that of the intra-ocular injection of certain drugs in solution have received considerable attention in recent years from Darier, Abadie, and others. It seems that the subconjunctival injec- tion of drugs is to be preferred to the latter method, for it has been proved that the drug is as readily absorbed from below the conjunctiva as from Tenon's space, and that there is less liability of injury to the inner coats (choroid and retina) when these are not wounded by the needle. Darier says, in referring to the action of the bichloride or cyanide of mercury for wounds, “ it acts as an antiseptic. ... In gen- eral treatment it is often antisyphilitic; but it has also in many cases a bactericidal, microbicidal, antiseptic action which is of great impor- tance.” This mode of treatment is especially useful for syphilitic diseases of the eye, but has also been successfully tried in cases of iridocyclitis and sympathetic ophthalmia. Other drugs besides mercury have been employed for various diseases, but not with very favorable results, so that the method has finally narrowed itself down to using the soluble salts of mercury, of which the sublimate and the cyanide are the best. Darier rather favors the latter. He admits, however, that for bringing the patient quickly and thoroughly under the influence of the drug, no treatment can equal that by inunc- tion, and especially when the subconjunctival injections are also used. For infecting ulcer of the cornea, no treatment is followed by better results, and in retino-choroiditis the improved condition is readily seen by ophthalmoscopic examination as well as recognized by the increase of vision. In affections of the optic nerve, only recent cases have im- proved. No benefit has followed when there has been gray spinal atrophy, while in white atrophy following inflammatory action there has been slight improvement. Darier says that “subconjunctival in- jections are contra-indicated, momentarily at least, every time that a circulatory stasis renders the absorption of the medicine difficult or im- possible by the obstructed lymphatic passages.” For this reason, in acute inflammatory processes of the iris and ciliary body, it is contra- indicated, and general treatment is to be preferred. Darier injects every day, or as often as circumstances require, five cubic centimetres of a solution which contains 0.005 milligramme of cyanide of mercury, the same amount of cocaine, and 0.035 milligramme of chloride of sodium. The sublimate may be used in the strength of 1 to 1000, and two or three minims are injected at a time. The injections may cause considerable pain and swelling, but the former subsides after an hour or two. Darier uses a Pravaz syringe with a platinum-tipped needle which can readily be sterilized in a flame, but any form of hypodermic syringe will answer if it is perfectly clean. Note.—In the preceding pagesl have drawn frequently from standard works on Ophthal- mology, especially those of de Schweinitz, Fuchs, and Berry, and from journals both special and general. I have not always given credit for views and opinions expressed, but as the article is meant to supplement that written by Dr. Williams in Vol. IV.. and not to contain tlie opinions of any one author, it has not been considered necessary to mention every name. When subjects have been omitted it has been thought that the original article was sufficient.