VENEREAL DISEASES: GONORRHOEA. 308 cretions. Among these are iodoform, calomel, bismuth subnitrate,, oxide of zinc, and other insoluble powders. It must not be supposed that this list is intended to be even approx- imately complete. It might be increased literally a hundredfold, and nothing could better demonstrate the blind absurdity of empirical methods than the dozens of ridiculous formulae and the hundreds of useless drugs which have from time to time been recommended for use in the various forms of urethritis. So far, however, as they are antiseptics, they would be found in one or the other of the above classes. There are certain agents which I have purposely omitted from this classification, but which, as ordinarily employed, might have been in- cluded with considerable propriety. These are corrosive sublimate, the sulplio-carbolate of zinc, boric acid, peroxide of hydrogen, and the salicylate of bismuth—the five drugs which in various combinations are, in my opinion, of the most practical value in attempting by topi- cal treatment to secure asepsis in an inflamed urethra. Corrosive sub- limate was used in the last century and in the early part of this century by Musitanus, Malow, Gardave, Benjamin Bell, John Hunter, Gutauer, and Swediaur. It then fell into disuse, but was revived again in 1846 by Mueller von Berneck,' and was employed spasmodically and unsystem- atically by a few surgeons until Neisser’s discovery of the gonococcus gave the drug an extraordinary vogue. The records of its effects in different hands have thus far been most contradictory. While on the one side we have Leistkow, Lewin, Eichsbaum, Grandin, Chameron, Paul, Louissot, Keyser, and Macrae advocating its employment, on the other we have Diday, Wyeth, Dujardin-Beaumetz, Lewis, Finger, Auspitz, Bardezzi, Du Castel, Dreyfous, and Fournier, who either recognize no advantage from its use, or who record positively unfavorable experi- ences. Its employment by the method of irrigation in solutions vary- ing in strength from 1 in 60,000 to 1 in 10,000 has been popularized by the excellent work of Curtis, Halsted, Vanderpoel, and Brewer, and their published results seem to warrant its further trial, especially in hospital and dispensary practice. The method of deep irrigation or retrojection involving the use of a catheter has always been unsatisfactory in my hands in private prac- tice. It involves too much expenditure of time on the part of both patient and surgeon, and in a genuine acute inflammatory urethritis is certainly objectionable on account of the irritation produced by even the softest instrument. Keyes and others have met with cases of cys- titis, prostatic abscess, epididymitis, and other complications which seem to have been produced by this treatment used early in attacks of urethritis. Palmer has called attention to its inapplicability to pri- vate practice, and I can add my testimony to that of these writers, though I am aware that in forty-six cases treated by retro jection Dr. Brewer claims to have met with no difficulty. I find it much more satisfactory to order frequent injections from a large syringe employed with moderate force, using the strongest solu- tions that can be given without causing pain, and preventing the liquid from passing too deeply by instructing the patient to sit upon a folded towel during the injection, so as to occlude the membranous urethra. My results as to sublimate were, however, disappointing as long as I