CEREBRAL CYSTS. 613 moved, yet with great benefit to the patient. Sommer1 even recom- mends that this be done piecemeal so as to avoid the. danger of a sudden alteration of pressure. But we are not at the end of our resources when such a partial operation has been done. Second, and even third, opera- tions have been done at the request of patients, and additional relief from the symptoms and prolongation of life have been given to them. Thus Czerny has operated twice in one case, and at the last report was contemplating a third operation. Bramann2 has operated thrice, with improvement each time; and Reynier and others have done re- peated operations on the same patients. In one unpublished case of a large angeiolithic sarcoma I have operated twice, and the patient has been greatly benefited. It is right also to call attention again to the wisdom of not doing too much at once in such cases. Experience has taught me great caution in dealing with large cerebral tumors. . Hemorrhage is to be dealt with as has been described under the head of technique, to which the reader is referred for the other ordinary steps of the operation. Cerebral Cysts, Including Dermoids and Hydatids (Echinococci). Cerebral cysts are of several varieties. The most common perhaps are simple serous cysts, resulting from old blood-clots, or in some cases apparently of spontaneous origin. Not uncommonly gunshot wounds or other penetrations of the brain by foreign bodies, or by fragments of bone from fractures, are followed by the development of either blood-cysts, or, at a later period, serous cysts. Sometimes old blood-clots are only partially absorbed, and instead of becoming cystic remain practically as foreign bodies. McBurney has removed such a clot with success after four months. Next frequently perhaps will be found blood-cysts, and occasionally in tumors, especially the gliomata, there will be c}rstic development in the interior. The symptoms of all such cysts are practically the same as those of tumors, modified of course by their individual causes, and they demand similar treatment. Dermoid Cysts.—Turner,3 Paget,4 and Ogle5 have described der- moid cysts in connection with the dura mater and pia mater. These find a ready embryological explanation in the fact that in early foetal life the skin and the dura are in contact, the bone being a later inter- position. A portion of the skin becoming involuted under the bone will develop into such a cyst.6 Sometimes, however, such dermoids develop in the brain itself, probably from a deeper involution. Thus Kruse7 has reported a case in which a dermoid cyst the size of a walnut was found in the fourth ventricle of a man who died of tubercle. It was filled with hair and pasty material, but strange to say had produced no symptoms of its presence. He also cites two other cases in the cere- bellum" and in the right corpus striatum.9 In the latter there were 1 Lancet, 1893, vol. ii., p. 644. 2 Arch, fur klin. Chirurgie. Bd. xlv.. 1893, S. 365. 3 St. Barth. Hosp. Reports, vol. ii., p. 62. 4 Lectures on Surgical Pathology. 5 Brit, and Foreign Med. Chir. Rev., 1865. 6 Sutton, General Pathology, p. 169. 1 Deutsche med. Wochensclir., 1S91, S. 567. 6 Irvine, Trans. Path. Soc. London, vol. xxx., 1879, p. 195. 9 Bericht allgemein. Krankenh., Wien, 1867.