AMPUTATIONS. 208 Jordan's incision with the use of Trendelenburg’s clamp have been employed by Ogilvie Will (who attributes the first use of the skewer to Spence), by Professor Dandridge, and by other surgeons. The operation known as Dieffenbacli’s appears to have been first practised by Dr. Brashear, of Kentucky, in 1806. It consists in ampu- tating the thigh by the circular method, hemorrhage being controlled by an ordinary tourniquet, and then, after ligating the vessels, in enu- cleating the upper portion of the bone through an external longitudinal incision. It is manifest that neither this operation nor Jordan’s, while they would no doubt answer well in a traumatic case, or in one of necrosis or of hip-disease, would be applicable to a case of malignant tumor in the upper part of the femur, where it would be necessary to cut flaps from without inward, and to keep the knife well above the limits of the morbid growth; and it is in this respect that Professor Wyeth’s method seems to me superior to all others which have been suggested, in that it allows constriction of all the vessels at the level of the hip- joint itself, permits the surgeon to shape his flaps as he may prefer, and enables him to disarticulate before the constricting band is re- moved. As originally practised, Dr. W7yeth’s method was a modifica- tion of Brashear's and Dieffenbaclrs, substituting the skewers and elastic band for the ordinary tourniquet, and, like that, having the dis- advantages of an operation d deux temps; but this objection being elimi- nated, Wyeth’s “bloodless method” seems to me to merit all the en- comiums which have been bestowed upon it. Its use has certainly much reduced the mortality of hip-joint amputations, 42 cases in which it has been employed having given, according to its author’s figures, 33 recoveries and only 9 deaths, a mortality rate of only 21.4 per cent., which, even allowing a considerable discount for unsuccessful cases which may not have been reported, makes a much better showing for the operation than has been obtained in other ways. In my own hands it has been perfectly satisfactory, as it was also in a case at the Penn- sylvania Hospital in the hands of my friend and colleague, Dr. R. H. Harte.