ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. 18G Med. Monthly, 1892. antispasmoclic. Death from its use occurs by respiratory failure. It is administered in large doses (from 30 to 60 grains) well diluted, and it is necessary to repeat the dose at short intervals. Tkibromomethane—CHBr3—Bromoform.—This substance is analo- gous to choloroform and has similar anaesthetic properties. It boils at from 117° to 151° C. (296.6° to 308.8° F.) and is soluble in alcohol and ether. It is produced by the action of bromine upon equal parts of methylic alcohol and caustic potassa. It is a colorless, limpid liquid, with a sweet taste and an agreeable odor. When applied locally it is a potent antiseptic. It is an antispasmodic and analgesic. Its use as an anaesthetic has been limited. Giirlt reports 2151 administrations of bromoform with ethyl bromide, with one death. When given by the mouth it should lie diluted with alcohol, or suspended in syrup of acacia. Diethyl-Dimethylmethane—C,H1GS„04—Sulphonal.•—This is a col- orless, odorless substance, melting at 125° C. (257° to 259° F.). It is made synthetically by the interaction of anhydrous mercaptan and anhydrous acetone in the presence of hydrochloric acid gas. It is solu- ble in alcohol and ether, and sparingly so in cold (1 to 100) and hot water (1 to 20). Its chief property is that of an hypnotic, and as such it is administered in from fifteen-grain to thirty-grain doses. Its action is probably exerted upon the higher nerve centres.1 Local Anaesthetics. Cocaine.-—Cocaine is the alkaloid derived from the erythroxylon coca. WTlien administered in medicinal doses it is a respiratory, car- diac, and cerebral, as well as muscular stimulant. In poisonous doses it produces cerebral convulsions and cardiac failure. WThen applied locally it paralyzes the sensory nerves. The hydrochlorate of cocaine is principally used, in the strength of from a two-per-cent, to a ten-per-cent, solution, which if prepared with boric acid and distilled water remains unchanged for a long time. About the eye and the mucous membrane of the nasal and pharyngeal cavities, a two-per-cent, or four-per-cent, solutionis efficient, while in the vagina and rectum a ten-per-cent, solu- tion is necessary. It is especially useful in ophthalmic and nasal sur- gery, in amputations of fingers, and in other minor operations where the circulation can be controlled. It is not readily absorbed by the skin or by a bleeding surface, and must be used hypodermically when such parts are concerned. In operations about the fingers a constrictor should be placed about the part, so as to interrupt the circulation, either before or preferably just after the injection of a solution of from four to eight per cent. When the operation has been completed the ligature should be intermittently relaxed, so as to prevent the drug from entering the circulation suddenly; this may also be accomplished by encouraging slight bleeding from the wound. Cocaine has been successfully used in a number of major operations,2 such as amputation, lithotomy, 1 Hare, Practical Therapeutics. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, 1890; China Medical Missionary, 1890; New England