284 TUMORS. ser. Seventy-five per cent, of the cases develop in glands which are already goitrous. The tumors grow rapidly, frequently cause metas- tasis, and bring death as a rule within six months. Operations appear to be useless, for in 34 cases 22 patients died soon after from various causes, and the remaining 12 lived only from two to sixteen months, re- currence taking place almost invariably. Epithelioma is occasionally found in the thyroid gland, as in the case reported by Busachi, in a man only 18 years of age who died of a tumor the size of a man’s fist, broken down in the centre, with some spots of calcification in the stroma. No primary tumor elsewhere could be found, and Busachi thinks that the growth may have originated from some brancliiogenic re- mains. Billroth reports two cases of scirrhus of the thyroid, the struc- ture exactly resembling that of scirrhus of the breast; in one case the disease was very rapidly fatal. Carcinoma op the (Esophagus.—Primary disease of the oesophagus usually occurs in males, and in the lowest third of the canal. The sta- tistics of gastrostomy.for the obstruction caused by cancer of the gullet are much better than formerly, and yet, when patients are able to take care of themselves intelligently, it cannot be denied that treatment by permanent tubage will probably prolong life equally well. Carcinoma op the Stomach and Intestine.—There is not much new to chronicle in regard to carcinoma of the stomach and intestine. Hauser has shown by serial sections of these tumors (similar to those made by the embryologists in their work) that there are no closed al- veoli, all of these spaces being simply sections of convoluted and branch- ing tubes of epithelium, connected with the original glands of the mucous membranes. This observation gives further support to the doctrine of the exclusively epithelial origin of the neoplastic cells. There are many cases now on record of operation for the radical cure of carcinoma of the stomach and intestine, and most noteworthy are the series of Billroth, Czerny, and Kocher; but instances of long free- dom from return remain rarities, although the mortality of the opera- tion is steadily decreasing in practised hands. Kocher reports his nine last cases of resection of the pylorus with only two deaths. Czerny is inclined to be despondent as to the success of our efforts for radical cure, and says that such cases will probably always remain rare surgical feats, and that the best that the surgeon can do will be to overcome the obstruction which the tumor causes in the gastro-intestinal tract by some form of anastomosis of the canal above and below. Kocher is more hopeful, and quotes the cases of Wolfler, Billroth, and Rydygier, in which life was prolonged for two and for five years after resection of the pylorus, adding two cases of his own, in one of which the patient died in three years of a stenosis which proved to be simply cicatricial, while the other patient continued in perfectly good health five years after the operation. In the intestine, also, isolated instances of a cure as estimated by the three-year limit are known. The insuperable obstacle to successful treatment of these cases is the impossibility of recognizing the disease before its extent precludes all hope of cure. Yet if by chance such tumors should be discovered in the early stage, there is no reason why they should not be cured by