PHLEBITIS. 357 may undergo simple (red) softening, and be carried away as molecular detritus by the blood-stream. An entirely different process, however, from those above described, may be observed the moment pyogenic germs gain access to the vein- walls. If the invasion occurs from without (as in infected wounds), the first condition encountered is a purulent periphlebitis. This condi- tion may extend along the course of the vein and external to it, giving rise to the reddened and indurated cords clinically characteristic of this disorder. As soon, however, as the invasion of pyogenic micro-organ- isms extends through the vessel-walls to the intima, conditions of far greater severity are at once established: necrosis with suppurative in- flammation is produced, and thrombosis takes place in the lumen. But the thrombus thus formed does not undergo organization and absorp- tion as in the uninfected forms of thrombophlebitis: it likewise be- comes invaded by the pyogenic micro-organisms, and in due course of time becomes disintegrated by bacterial action. It melts to a yellow, puriform mass, and is subsequently swept away by the blood current, and bearing, as it does, numberless active and virulent germs among its particles, gives rise to numerous infectious emboli in the capillaries of remote organs and causes irreparable mischief. These inundations of the system by infectious material are clinically, characterized by severe rigors, and go to make up the clinical picture of pyaemia. During the progress of this disease such emboli may also, in their turn, be the exciting cause of thrombophlebitis. Finally, mention may here be made of a morbid condition of the veins, which may be properly classified under the heading phlebitis, although all writers do not consider it an inflammatory process. I refer to phlebosclerosis, a disease recently described more minutely by Sack, and bearing analogy to arteriosclerosis, but one which hardly ever attains the same development or the same importance as the arterial lesion. Phlebosclerosis consists in a fibrous thickening of the inner coat of the vein (endophlebitis). The thickening may be either diffuse or cir- cumscribed, and is accordingly designated as phlebosclerosis nodosa or diffusa. The newly formed tissue lies in the intima, and consists of con- nective tissue, which, however, soon undergoes degeneration, generally hyaline in character, and then may again become disintegrated into fatty and granular detritus, or may calcify (atheroma). The tunica media and tunica adventitia, however, are not unaffected in the later stages of phlebosclerosis, both foci of infiltration with small round cells and recent or cicatrized areas of connective tissue, in which degeneration, hyaline or fatty in character, has taken place, being observed here. The primary cause of these conditions is a weakening of the muscu- lar tone and contractile power of the media, by which secondary com- pensating changes, consisting in the proliferation of the tissues (chronic phlebitis), are induced at first in the intima. Of the varieties of phlebitis other than those described, some forms are ascribed to constitutional disturbances—gouty phlebitis, rheumatic phlebitis (Schmitt). But the greater part are recognized as due to specific infectious agents (tuberculosis, glanders, actinomycosis, and, probably, syphilis and acute articular rheumatism). Tubercular phlebitis, described by Weigert and Muegge, induces in- filtration of the vein-walls with round cells and proliferation of the tis-