WOUNDS OF THE FACE. 729 tween the ala of the nose and the angle of the mouth. At the anterior edge of the masseter, which can readily be felt, it takes a deeper course and, perforating the buccinator and mucous membrane obliquely, enters the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. If the nature of the operation requires division of this duct, it is good sur- gery to isolate the portion coming from the parotid gland, to make an opening through the buccal tissues into the mouth, and to carry the stump of the duct through this opening. Thus a new salivary ori- fice will be made in the mucous membrane and a cutaneous fistula will be avoided. The branches of the seventh nerve, which give motion to the mus- cles of expression and radiate from a point just below the auricle, must not be ruthlessly divided by a longitudinal incision in front of the ear. The motor paralysis so induced would cause indescribable deform- ity. Division of the sensory nerves coming out of the supra-orbital, infra-orbital, and mental foramina is less objectionable, since the numbness thereby caused makes no change in the facial wrinkles or expression. Skin grafting in its various forms, and plastic operations by all methods, have a most brilliant field in the prevention and correction of facial deformities. Occasionally it is well to allow a flap, raised for a reparative purpose, to thicken by inflammatory exudate before suturing it in place. Its tissue, drained of blood and with lowered temperature immediately after dissection, may gain additional vitality if not at once attached by stitches, and sloughing of its edges may thus be avoided. The insertion of a piece of aseptic oiled silk or rubber tissue under the flap will prevent its union to the underlying structures during the three or four days required for inflammatory plethora and thickening. Wounds of the Face. The face especially escapes injury by reason of the mobility of the cervical vertebrte, the warning afforded by vision, and the automatic protection given by the upper extremities, the obliquity of the lower end of the humerus causing flexion of the elbow to bring the protecting hand direct!}7 in front of the mouth and lower part of the face. The discoloration due to contusions is often a source of anxiety to the patient. Cold compresses with moderate pressure, continued for five or ten hours after the receipt of an injury, tend to lessen the subcu- taneous bleeding and are advantageous, but subsequently cold applica- tions should be omitted, as they probably delay the absorption upon which the removal of the discoloration depends. Multiple antiseptic punctures, followed by squeezing to extrude the extravasated blood, may be utilized in severe cases. Perfect asepsis must be maintained lest suppuration be induced. Chloride of ammonium, arnica, and other drugs applied locally, probably exert very little influence in hastening removal of the “ black and blue” discoloration except when accompanied by friction, which is probably the valuable part of the treatment by these various lotions or liniments. The use of flesh-colored paint will partially disguise the alteration in color due to bruises. Gunshot wounds of the face are best managed by applying at once