678 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. tense, and will often continue for an hour or longer, but gradually the parts become more tolerant and the pain less severe, and the applica- tions may then be made twice a day. The crystal of copper sulphate,, strong solutions of tannin and glycerin (gr. x.- xxx. to f § i. or stronger), and boroglyceride (fifty per cent) may all be used during this stage. The copper, though an effective and highly prized remedy, is severe, the pain from a single application not unusually lasting for several hours, and at times all day, and it should therefore only be used by Fig. 1699. skilful hands. The popular treatment for this stage is the surgical, which consists in expressing the contents of the follicles by means of the finger nails or specially devised forceps, or in incising the con- junctiva in lines parallel to the lid margin with a special instrument, and then, with a nail-brush or tootb-br-ush that has been dipped in a solution of bichloride of mercury (1 in 100, 200, or 300), brushing out their contents. This method is known as “grattage,” and has been recommended by Darier and other French surgeons. The forceps de- signed by Noyes and by Knapp (Figs. 1699, 1699 bis) are among the best for the treatment by expression. Patients are placed under the influence of an anaesthetic, or perhaps strong solutions (ten per cent.) of cocaine may answer. Noyes uses two pairs of forceps, and with one grasps and everts the lid, while with the other the folds of the con- junctiva are caught, and by pulling against the first pair the contents of the follicles are pressed out. Knapp’s is a roller-forceps, and by its use the conjunctiva is milked, as it were, both arms being at times Fig. 1699 bis. Knapp’s Roller-Forceps for Trachoma. within the cul-de-sac, though when the edges of the lid are reached one may he placed outside. Considerable reaction follows these operations; but beyond washing with a solution of boric acid, and applying iced cloths externally, no immediate treatment is necessary. Adhesions between the torn and mangled conjunctival folds may be prevented by breaking them up daily with a probe. As soon as the reactive symp- toms have subsided the treatment may be supplemented by the use of astringent washes, careful applications of the crystal of copper, boro- glyceride, and solutions of nitrate of silver. No exact rules can be laid down for this stage, but the case must be treated according to cir-