INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 758 disease in new chains of glands is attended by febrile exacerbations. Clinically, therefore, there is reason for the belief that the disease is of microbic origin, and that the infection of the glands proceeds through the blood-vessels. Glands far removed from each other are often simultaneously enlarged, while those belonging to a chain of which one is already infected may remain normal. Usually the enlargement at- tacks groups of glands in relation with the larger arterial trunks. The glandular tumor always presents a uniform surface. It may he soft, almost to the point of fluctuation, or firm and elastic, like cartilage. The attempt to divide malignant lympliadenoma into a firm and soft variety has been made, but without reason, since it is not unusual for both forms of tumor to be present in one chain of glands. Though a false fluctuation may be present, the tumor never disintegrates, nor does it through peri-adenitis form adhesions to the integument. Whether hard or soft it is always freely movable underneath its cov- erings, and it forms no attachment to glands in its vicinity. The glands can be moved on and about each other with perfect freedom. Attention to these characteristics marks this disease from tuberculosis, with which it most readily may be confounded. The course of this disease is toward a fatal issue in periods varying from one to five years. In the case of a young girl, recently observed, death resulted in a little less than eight months from the appearance of the first glandular swelling in the neck. According to Hutchinson and others, the disease may remain latent in one or two glands for a number of years, and then without any known cause become quickly generalized. When the diagnosis can be made early, extirpation may prevent extension of the disease. In advanced cases surgical interfer- ence can only be harmful, unless it be made to relieve urgent pressure- symptoms on the part of the trachea or oesophagus. Lympho-Sarcoma of the Neck. Distinct from the disease just considered is the sarcoma which de- velops and remains localized in one of the glands of the neck, usually a deep-seated one in connection with the surface or within the sheath of the large vessels. It presents the pathological changes and clinical tendencies of sarcomas elsewhere. Round or spindle-celled in charac- ter, the tumor is first distinctly encapsulated within the gland. In its growth it involves muscles, nerves, skin, and blood-vessels, and not infrequently perforates the larger veins. Early7 metastases are there- fore sometimes observed in lungs, liver, or spleen. As the tumor approaches the surface, the superficial veins are dilated. The skin assumes a bluish tint and glistening appearance. With the formation of adhesions its nutrition is impaired. It becomes thinner and thinner and finally ulcerates. With the repressing influ- ence of the skin lost, the tumor grows rapidly beyond the general level of the integument, and often assumes a cauliflower form. Whether protruding or not, the exposed surface yields a sanguinolent discharge, always offensive and often largely formed of blood. With or without traumatism, hemorrhages both profuse and recurrent greatly reduce the patient. Purulent infection often is added to the condition and aids not a little in expediting the fatal termination.