DISORDERS OF NUTRITION. 445 It has been quite completely discussed recently in a monograph by Comby,1 whose opportunities for studying it clinically have been very large. He inclines to the opinion that the disease is the same as osteo- malacia, differing from the latter only in consequence of its occurring at a different period of physiological activity. Notwithstanding this, it is well to bear in mind that a good practical definition makes rachitis to consist in a softening of bone due to deficient deposit of bone salts, while osteomalacia is a softening of the bones due to a removal of bone salts already deposited. Rickets belongs, therefore, to the period of active growth of the bones, while osteomalacia belongs to the period of maturity. Rickets is a disease of children; osteomalacia is a disease of adults or of adolescents. In fact, the latter occurs most frequently in women in connection with pregnancy or lactation. To this distinc- tion between rickets and osteomalacia I shall in this article adhere, more for convenience than because I fail to appreciate the arguments of those who hold that the two conditions are practically the same, and that their sole difference depends upon the periods of physiological activity at which they respectively occur. It is a disputed question whether or not rachitis is hereditary. Most authors think that it is not; and indeed it is probable that children who develop rachitis inherit nothing but a diathesis which makes them liable to this manifestation of their general weakness. Rickets has occurred before birth (intra-uterine). In such cases infants have come into the world with multiple fractures, as in a case recorded by Peter. In regard to heredity, it is a fact that many women of apparently vigor- ous development, with vigorous husbands, give birth to children that are rachitic; and, on the other hand, rachitic women have children whose bones are strong and well developed. At the same time there are some families in which rachitic members are found in several suc- cessive generations. The cause of rickets appears to be bad food and bad hygienic condi- tions, especially during the period of nursing and in the earliest years of life. Artificial feeding is held to be responsible for a large proportion of the cases of rachitis occurring in Europe. Guillot says that the nurs- ing bottle has killed more infants than gunpowder has killed adults. Experiments conducted upon animals have shown that deprivation of lime salts may result in softening and atrophy of the bones. Puppies fed on raw meat developed rachitis with digestive disturbances; while their brothers, who were allowed to suckle, developed naturally. The ingestion of an excess of lactic acid contributes to the development of rachitis. The great prevalence of rachitis in Europe and its comparative rari- ty in America are due to the fact that the way in which infants of the poor are sometimes brought up in Europe, differs from that in which the children of almost or quite equally poor persons in America are brought up. With us, the administration of alcohol in any form to little chil- dren is almost unknown, and—-contrary to theories of digestion believed and taught pretty generally even yet—the children in our alleys who are allowed to eat bread and butter, and potatoes, and even meat, when they are very young, in many cases grow up strong and healthy, and compare favorably in weight and appearance with the children of well- 1 Le Rachitisme. Paris, 1892.