718 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NOSE AND ACCESSORY SINUSES. to depend on nasal disease.1 Chronic larvngo-bronchitis, with its many complications, has a similar starting-point in most instances; and many ocular neuroses, as well as most diseases of the lachrymal duct, are now recognized as being directly dependent on chronic rhinitis of one or other of its many types. Treatment.—Eecognizing the high physiological importance of the nasal membrane, and its intimate association with various remote con- ditions, nasal therapeutics has become much more conservative than formerly. Destructive procedures are now seldom used for minor con- ditions, and are never employed in any condition where more moderate treatment will at all suffice. Simple chronic coryza is almost universally treated by sprays com- bined with proper hygienic management. In addition to the standard solutions mentioned in Dr. Lefferts’ article,2 resorcin (5 grains to the fluidounce), the distillate of hamamelis, and boric acid (10 grains to the fluidounce), are extensively used by rhinologists, either alone or in various combinations. Powders have been very generally abandoned, as causing far more irritation than benefit, and medicated bougies are rarely if ever em- ployed in this disease by American specialists. Depletion by plunging a small tenotomy knife into the congested turbinated tissue has been recommended by Daly,3 and lately by MacDonald of London, but has not been generally adopted. General measures directed to the vaso- motor system are of great value in many instances, and cases in which the disease depends on a gouty or other diathesis demand special treat- ment directed to the constitutional condition. Chronic hypertrophic rhinitis has been shown to be a disease of very various types, but generally divisible for therapeutic purposes into two stages, (a) vascular dilatation with hypertrophy; (b) complete hyper- trophy or sclerosis.4 The former type is treated as simple rhinitis, with the addition of various surgical measures to relieve stenosis. The measures fully described in Dr. Lefferts’ article are still universally em- ployed, but destructive agents are less used than formerly. The intro- duction of cocaine has made practicable many delicate procedures scarcely possible before it came into use, and its almost universal em- ployment may be regarded as one of the greatest modern advances in nasal surgery. In early and vascular hypertrophies great benefit frequently results from the use of Hubbard’s nasal-dilator bag. The instrument con- sists of a violin-shaped rubber bag, 2^ inches long and f inch wide at the extremities. The bag ends in a short rubber tube, through which a straight catheter is passed to the head of the dilator, and the end of the tube is tied firmly around it; the catheter is fitted to a half-ounce syringe in any convenient manner. To use the instrument, it is wet with Dobell’s solution and slipped, while in a collapsed state, into the nasal fossa; when over the point of distention, the syringe, filled with tepid, hot or cold water, as may best suit the indications, is fitted, and the bag is dilated with any desirable amount of pressure for from one to five minutes. The engorged sinuses are thus emptied without either 1 Swinbourne, Medical Record, August 6, 1892. 2 Vol. IV, supra. 3 Medical and Surgical Reporter, Nov. 17, 1886. A See paper by the author, Amer. Jour. Med. Sciences, February, 1889.