ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 548 Tenotomy of the tendo Achillis in addition to that of the peroneals is always beneficial in these cases, provided an apparatus is subsequently adjusted with an arched leather or steel insole, which not only supports the normal arch of the inner portion of the foot, hut is high enough to give support to the side of the scaphoid as well. The sole of the shoe should also be thicker along the entire inner side of the heel and ball of the foot, so that the tread will be upon the outer side. If steel uprights are necessary, a pad should be placed opposite the inner ankle, and an elastic strap attached opposite the ball of the great toe so as to raise the inner side of the foot. Flat Foot.—Gymnastics, massage, electricity, and improvement of general nutrition are essential elements in the treatment of fiat foot. The tibialis anticus muscle must receive especial development by exer- cises systematically carried out.1 Walking on tiptoe is often service- able, but weight and pulley movements are especially indicated. The best shoe to be worn is that already described for the treatment of valgus. The supporting arch beneath and upon the inner side of the scaphoid may be made first of sole leather, and afterward of spring steel, or of a combination of these materials. The operative treatment may consist in: (1) Tenotomy of peroneal tendons; (2) Tenotomy and forcible inversion with elevation of scaph- oid ; or, (3) Tarsectomy. In ordinary cases the best results are ob- tained by tenotomy of the peroneal tendons, followed by forcible inver- sion and elevation of the arch, with subsequent fixation by gypsum in the varus position for several weeks. The patient may then walk about upon the plaster cast, and afterward wear the shoe described above. In inveterate cases wedged-sbaped excisions of the tarsus, with or without fixation by pegs, followed by careful support, will assist in locomotion. Calcaneus.—In cases where the tendo Achillis has become perma- nently lengthened, it should, under the most thorough aseptic precau- tions, be divided in an oblique direction, or slit and shortened the requi- site amount to secure a normal position. The divided ends are then sutured with chromicized catgut or sterilized silk. The form of suture is of little importance, so that strangulation of tendon tissue is avoided. The wound is then closed and primary union secured. The foot should be dressed with plaster-of-Paris, so as fully to relax the calf muscles for three or four weeks. An apparatus with stop joint and elastic assistant should be subse- quently applied. Deformities of the Toes. Hammer Toe, or Talon Toe.—In Mr. Fisher's article it is said that certain authors who recommend division of the extensor tendon are mistaken. I have, however, on several occasions seen cases in which the deformity could not be relieved until the extensor as well as the flexor tendon had been divided, as the first phalanx would otherwise per- sist in assuming its former upright position. The best method of maintaining the toes in the straight position after 1 Rotli, Lateral Curvature of the Spine, p. 55. London, 1889.