INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. 800 pnoea is not extremely urgent, and when they would hesitate to employ tracheotomy; so that it is probable that the milder cases are treated by intubation, while tracheotomy is reserved for those which are more severe. Instruments Required for Intubation.—The instruments employed in the operation of intubation of the larynx are: Intubation-tubes of various sizes; an introducer; an extractor; a mouth-gag; a gauge; fine braided silk. The intubation-tubes are furnished for children and for adults; those for children are usually six in number, adapted to children from one to twelve years of age. The intubation-tube now generally employed con- sists of a metal tube which bulges near its centre, and is provided with a collar or head to rest upon the false vocal cords; it is irregularly quadrangular in shape, one angle resting upon the arytenoid cartilages, and its opposite angle bevelled to permit of the closure of the epiglottis over the aperture of the tube; the tubes are gold-plated, and each is provided with an obturator which has a blunt extremity. Just below the head, the tube is of small diameter, to avoid injurious pressure upon the vocal cords. The wall of the tube is increased to its greatest diameter about the middle, which serves to maintain it in position dur- ing coughing, and increases the weight so that it is expelled wfith more difficulty. A small perforation exists at the edge of the collar on each tube, through which a strand of fine braided silk is passed, which gives the operator control of the tube, permitting him to remove it promptly if in its introduction it should be accidentally passed into the pharynx or oesophagus, instead of the larynx, or if after its introduction its withdrawal should be indicated by sudden obstruction by membrane. The introducer consists of a handle and staff, which is curved to a right angle at its extremity; at the end of the staff there is a screw by which it is attached to the obturator, and to it is attached a sliding.- gear for detaching the obturator from the tube when it has been placed in the larynx. Mouth-gags of various kinds may be used; the one generally fur- nished with intubation sets is a self-retaining instrument. The extractor is also curved to a right angle, and has a small forceps with duck-bill blades at its extremity; these are made to separate and apply themselves to the inner surface of the intubation-tube with sufficient firmness to allow it to he withdrawn. A metal gauge also is provided, which is used to determine the size of the tubes to be employed for children of different ages. Preparations for Intubation.—The actual introduction of the in- tubation-tube should occupy as little time as possible, for as soon as it enters the larynx breathing is arrested until the obturator is removed; therefore all manipulations should he as rapid as may be consistent with accuracy. The time usually required for the introduction of the intubation-tube and withdrawal of the obturator is from five to ten seconds after the mouth-gag has been properly adjusted. The surgeon before undertaking the operation of intubation should select a tube of suitable size for the age of the patient, and should pass through the eyelet in the tube a strand of fine braided silk, about two