467 TUBEKCULOSIS OF THE BONES. An important question in regard to the treatment of bone tuberculo- sis is that of the time at which to begin operative interference. In re- gard to this, opinions differ. Collections of tuberculous material need not always be operated on as soon as found. If such collections are limited in area, and can be thoroughly removed, there is no reason to doubt the propriety of treating them actively and by operation; but in some cases too early interference converts a comparatively innocent lesion into one that is very inconvenient to manage. Probably in the great majority of cases which come to a surgeon’s notice, the disease is in such a stage that there can he no question about the desirability of treating it by operation. This operation may be puncture followed by injection, incision, scraping, tunnelling, resection, exsection, or ampu- tation. To describe the cases to which each of these methods is ap- plicable, would require more space than can here be spared, in view of the fact that these procedures are described in every work on sur- gery. In the neighborhood of joints, the treatment resolves itself frequently into a question of excision (arthrectomy) or resection, or in many cases amputation. The last is a method of last resort. The experience of the school at Lyons, of which Ollier is the great head, has relegated amputation to a very subordinate place in the treatment of tubercu- lous diseases of the extremities. Of the two former modes, resection of the bone is not only simpler, but on the whole more practical. In the case of children it is often desirable to save, if possible, the develop- mental cartilage. In the case of adults, the ease with which one can go beyond the area of infection, and the fact that the period for in- crease in length of the bones has passed, combine to make it more de- sirable to practise what are called typical resections, in contrast to atypical resections or arthrectomies. The question sometimes arises, what shall be done in the case of a person affected with tuberculosis of the lungs who presents serious symptoms of bone or joint tuberculosis, or of one with tuberculous bone disease with active febrile development? This question has to be de- cided separately for each case, weighing the advantages of operative treatment with the risks of an unfortunate result. The power of re- cuperation in tuberculous patients is sufficient to justify operation in some cases. A knee, for example, which keeps a man absolutely helpless may be wisely operated upon. In such cases, however, the simplest operation is always to be preferred; and the simplest is ampu- tation. In the treatment of tuberculous inflammation of the hip-joint, which by many orthopaedic surgeons is regarded as the only form of chronic hip-joint disease, and which is usually the result of tuberculous osteitis of the femur, rest and fixation sometimes accomplish a complete cure. Gibney says that they effect a cure in a large proportion of cases, if used early. If suppuration occurs, Gibney aspirates small abscesses, but does not inject them, from three to six aspirations being usually re- quired. If these fail, the abscesses may be opened, curetted, dried, packed with iodoform gauze, and covered with an antiseptic dressing. Such treatment often results in apparent cure; but this may be followed by relapses.