752 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. rapidity, adhesion to the overlying structures follows, and nature forms the path for the spontaneous or operative cure of the condition. While abscesses of the neck may be diffuse, there is a distinct ten- dency toward limitation by fascim and connective-tissue planes within certain well-defined spaces. This applies to purulent foci above and below the deep fasciae. The sub-maxillary gland, with intra-glandular and extra-glandular lymphatics, is contained in such a pocket, from which abscesses are not prone to extend. Indeed, its walls are so im- perforate that any marked infiltration of this region will make itself manifest through pressure effects on the tongue, pharynx, larynx, and vessels situated underneath it. General septic infiltration and slough- ing follow this enchained inflammation, which is fatal in over forty per cent, of the cases in which it occurs. Having been accurately de- scribed by Ludwig,1 this deep-seated phlegmon of the neck is known as '‘Angina Ludovici” by continental writers. As early as 1822 Gregory gave a graphic description of the disease.2 In England the subject has been ably treated by R. W. Parker3 and Morrant Baker.4 It is the termination in •sloughing with its attendant grave septic manifestations that distinguishes this “sub-maxillary phlegmon” or “deep phlegmon of the neck” from milder processes in the same region. Abscesses in this region are oftenest encountered in children, are rela- tively of slow development, and, owing to this and to the greater resist- ance of tissues generally in the young, are not often phlegmonous in character. The more acute the process the greater is the danger of sloughing. A second pocket within which purulent foci are found is underneath the layer of deep fascia which joins the proximal margins of the sternal muscles and lies in front of the trachea. Contained within it are the loosest connective tissue of the neck, ocasionally a median lymph-node, and the thyroid. The abscesses here encountered are ordinarily the result of wounds or operations on the air passages. Tracheotomy is sometimes followed by a peri-tracheal cellulitis which by extension to the mediastinum becomes fatal. Unopened abscesses in this area sometimes cause tracheal stenosis. Koenig 5 reports the case of a child on whom he was about to perform tracheotomy. In front of the trachea and extending into the mediastinum an abscess as large as a walnut was encountered. When this was evacuated, res- piration became so free that the opening of the trachea was not found necessary. A third space is that which corresponds to the superior carotid trian- gle. The large number of lymphatic glands which surround the vas- cular sheath and are beneath both borders of the sterno-mastoid mus- cle, makes this, next to the sub-maxillarv triangle, the favorite site of cervical abscesses. Often of slow growth when they follow suppurative, tubercular, or syphilitic adenitis, or when secondary to malignant dis- ease of the subjacent gullet, they are not infrequently mistaken for neoplasms, or for arterial lesions on account of the pulsation of the un- derlying carotid. When pointing occurs, it may be in front of or be- 1 Schmidt’s Jahrbiicher, 1837. Bd. xv., S. 25 2 London Med. and Phys. Journal, 1822. 3 Lancet, 1870, vol. ii. 4 St. Barth. Hosp. Reports, 1800. 6 Lehrbuch f. spec. Chirurgie, Bd. i.