310 VENEREAL DISEASES: GONORRHOEA. kava, eucalyptus, and the various terebinthinates, is chiefly due to their antiseptic powers, which not only deprive the altered and partially ster- ilized urine which contains them of many of its harmful properties, but cause it to exert a positively curative effect upon the suppurating mucous membrane. This statement is borne out by a number of microscopic observations upon specimens of urine before and after the administra- tion of these drugs, and by culture and inoculation experiments. I have been led by the publications of Dreyfous,1 Sahli,2 Bouchard,3 Lane,4 and Nencki (quoted by Bouchard) to add salol to the drugs em- ployed in the routine treatment of gonorrhoea. Dreyfous’s paper contained the results of his observations in seven cases in which salol had been administered in full doses both with and without admixture with cubebs and copaiba. Sahli had shown that the resultants of the intestinal decomposition of salol were salicylic and carbolic acids, which were eliminated by the kidneys. . He had exposed to the air for some weeks the urine of a patient under the influence of salol without the least decomposition occurring. Nencki had made the same observation. Bouchard called attention to the value of the simultaneous employment of several anti- septics by internal administration. Lane reported excellent results in fifty cases of gonorrhoea in which he had used salol in doses varying from 5 to 30 grains three times daily. I have not succeeded in getting quite such good effects from this drug as have been reported by others, but I am satisfied that its use has been of unmistakable benefit to my patients, diminishing the average duration of the cases, reducing the discomfort and suffering, and lessen- ing the frequency of complications. I have given it almost invariably in the form of a capsule in combina- tion with cubebs and copaiba: Salo> 5 to 10 grs. Oleoresin of cubebs 5 grs. Para balsam of copaiba 10 grs. Pepsin 1 gr. The conclusions at which I arrived after a preliminary trial of anti- septics, locally and internally,6 are justified by my later experiences and are as follows:— 1. The results of antiseptic treatment are not so uniformly suc- cessful as might be expected, on account of, a, the anatomical and physiological peculiarities of the male urethra; b, the difficulty of ap- plying sufficiently energetic local antisepsis; c, the necessarily inter- mittent character of such applications, and, d, the failure to combine with the topical treatment appropriate internal medication. 2. No one antiseptic agent can be depended upon, in the strength at which it can be borne by the inflamed urethral mucous membrane, completely to sterilize the discharges and the suppurating surfaces. A judicious combination of several antiseptics, if not essential to success, is at least of considerable value. 3. The internal administration of salol in conjunction with copaiba 1 Gaz. Hebd. de Med. et de Chir., 4 et 11 Janv., 1890. 2 La Semaine Medieale, 7 Avril, 1886. 3 Tlier. des Maladies Infectieuses, 1889 : Antisepsie, p. 247. 4 Lancet, March 22, 1890. 5 Medical News, June 14, 1890.