58 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. of antiseptic dressings, with the one exception of iodoform gauze, which is still very justly much esteemed. The sublimate dressings so largely employed but a few years ago have now been generally abandoned in favor of plain sterilized gauze, since it has been established that the small amount of the antiseptic in dry sublimate dressings quickly com- bines with the albuminous substances in wound discharges, forming compounds of very doubtful germicidal power. The value of the sub- limate in the gauze as an antiseptic is, therefore, very questionable, unless it is introduced in so large a quantity that it will also cause irrita- tion of the wound-surfaces and possibly intoxication by absorption. To obviate these disadvantages Lister has lately recommended an anti- septic gauze impregnated with the double cyanide of zinc and mercury. This salt is insoluble in wound-secretions, and is, therefore, not decom- posed by the latter. It is neither irritating nor poisonous, but its- preparation is unfortunately a very tedious process. We do not, how- ever, to-day look very much to the antiseptic properties of our dressings; we desire them in the first instance to be aseptic. This is not readily accomplished by impregnation with antiseptics. It has been shown that commercial antiseptic gauze frequently contains micro-organisms, even in the centre of the packages in which it appears in the market, and this is readily understood when we recall the various manipula- tions during impregnation, drying, and packing. The moist commer- cial article is, therefore, from this point of view preferable. The best manner of preparing sublimate gauze is the following: Boil the gauze in a solution of washing-soda, in order to remove fatty substances, then soak it in a watery solution of sublimate, 1-500 or 1-1000, to which two parts of chloride of sodium have been added for every part of the mercurial. Then dry and preserve in sterilized vessels. The simplest and at the same time the only certain way of obtaining absolutely sterile dressings, is through disinfection by heat. Dry heat is, we know, much inferior to boiling water or steam as a sterilizing agent, and, as boiling necessitates drying afterwards, steam sterilization has now been universally adopted. It is not much more than ten years since dry heat was exclusively used in the large sterilizing chambers of European hospitals for the disinfection of bedding, clothes, etc., but about that time the superiority of steam in this respect was made apparent by the researches of Koch, and it very soon supplanted dry heat. Bulky articles, exposed for hours to dry heat of more than 100° C., were not at all disinfected in their interior; in fact, it was amply proven by experiments that the temperature in the middle of such bundles of clothing or other articles never, during their long exposure, reached a point anywhere near that of the air in the apparatus. This is quite otherwise with steam, which when saturated penetrates very quickly. The application of dry heat has another serious drawback, the fact that the high temperature necessary for sterilization fre- quently damages the articles in the chamber. Steam has none of these disadvantages. A great deal of experimental work has been undertaken in late }7ears to determine the conditions under which the sterilizing power of steam is greatest. The following maybe taken as the conclusions arrived at: I. Simple, circulating steam at 100° C. possesses very great disin- fecting power. It kills the spores of anthrax in five minutes, whereas