( 541) ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. BY DE FOREST WILLARD, M.D., CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY IN THE HOSPITAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; SURGEON TO THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. The derivation of the word “orthopaedic” is variously given by authors; some regarding it as having been derived from opfto?, straight, and xaidsuu), to educate—an excellent combination of ideas — while others, more properly, claim that the term is derived from op$o$, straight, and -aidos, a child; from the straightening of children it has been enlarged to include the straightening of deformities oc- curring at all ages. The orthography of the word when e is used instead of ce leads many professional men, as well as others, to suppose that the latter portion of the word is derived from the root jjecZ, the foot; thus limiting and narrowing the application of the term. The retention of the diphthong is, therefore, especially useful and suggestive. Mr. Fisher, in the article on Orthopaedic Surgery in Vol. III., would limit the term to subcutaneous work; but this is certainly unjustifiable, as there are many orthopaedic operations which are not subcutaneous. Excisions, erasions, osteotomies, open tenotomies, etc., are certainly very essential procedures in the correction of deformities. Orthopaedic surgery is simply one of the divisions of general surgery. It deals with all classes of deformities and malformations. For its proper understanding the surgeon must acquire a thorough mastery of general surgery, and must add thereto an accurate knowledge of the various accessory mechanical means to be employed; in short, it in- cludes the prevention and the operative and mechanical treatment of all deformities, congenital or acquired, but especially of those affecting the osseous and muscular systems. The following pages are to be regarded as supplementary to Mr. Fisher’s article, already referred to, and follow the same order of ar- rangement, as far as practicable. Club-Foot. Subcutaneous Tenotomy of the Tendo Achillis.—Division of the tendo Achillis is best accomplished, and with least risk of accident, by making a puncture—not an incision—in the skin with an exceedingly sharp-pointed tenotome, and completing the section with a blunt-pointed instrument with a short cutting edge, thus preventing either punc-