316 VENEREAL DISEASES: SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. antiseptic precautions,” says M. Horteloup, “both as regards washing my hands in carbolated water and in sterilizing the skin covering the bubo with a carbolated solution of one part in fifty, I incised the bubo with a new bistoury which had previously been thoroughly washed in carbolated water. The bubo was immediately evacuated, the pus being sanious, tinged with red and of the color of chocolate. With the same bistoury I made an inoculation 3 cm. from the umbilicus, hav- ing first thoroughly sterilized the skin covering the abdomen. This point of inoculation was covered with a watch-glass. The inguinal wound was cleaned out with lint soaked in carbolated water, and a dressing was made with .prepared cotton taken from a new package and exposed to a carbolated spray for several minutes. The whole dressing was kept in place by a bandage soaked in carbolated water. The pa- tient was then put back in his bed and he was strictly forbidden in any way to touch the watch-glass which covered the inoculation. On the 1st of December the dressing was removed, and the auto-inoculation of the day before was without result. The suppuration of the bubo had not been very abundant. The walls of the cavity were irregular in shape, but the borders had become ulcerated. About 1 cm. from the first inoculation a second one was made with a new bistoury, taking care to allow the blood to flow well before putting the pus upon the wound which had been made. A watch-glass, kept in place by dia- chylon, and the prepared carbolated cotton as before covered the bubo, and all of these dressings were kept in place by a carbolated band- age. The same precautions were taken in regard to interference or meddling with the inoculation. On the 4th of December the dressings were removed, and it was found that the inoculation of December 1 had been successful, a purulent vesicle surrounded with an inflamma- tory areola being seen. The pus from this first inoculation was taken and inoculated at a fresh point 5 cm. from the original point of in- oculation, after all antiseptic precautions had been taken, and also pus from the bubo was taken and a fresh inoculation made in the ab- dominal wall to the left of the umbilicus. The borders of the inguinal incision had become scalloped and ulcerated, presenting the clinical aspects of a chancroidal bubo. On the 6th of December the chancroid which resulted from the inoculation made on the 1st had become very pronounced. Reinoculation of the matter of this chancroid had given rise to a whitish vesicle which was surrounded by an inflammator}T areola. The third inoculation from the pus of the bubo also gave posi- tive results. On the 8th of December, these various inoculations con- tinued to follow a regular course, and their clinical characteristics did not differ from those which are found in the simple chancroid.” M. Horteloup concluded that, while admitting that this complication of the chancroid was very much less frequent than certain statistics would lead one to suppose, it nevertheless unfortunately did exist, and in com- municating this observation he wished to accentuate the fact that vir- ulence of buboes is often too lightly thought about, and that conse- quently too favorable a prognosis is given in such cases, even after the open bubo has been dressed by absolute occlusion. Diday in the same journal also protests against the view of M. Straus, and considers that there are buboes by absorption independent of the question of auto-inoculation.