WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 52 heat will sterilize a sponge in a few hours, hut, if great care is not taken to have the sponge perfectly dry, it will shrink and become hard. The same objection can be urged against boiling them, which causes them to assume a dark-browm color, to shrink very much, and to lose most of their absorbing power, and when dry they will become per- fectly hard. Absolute sterilization is, therefore, owing to the structure of the sponge, impossible. But we can come very close to perfection by care- ful preparation. Sponges should be well beaten, to free them from sand and other gross impurities. They should then be placed and re- main for some time in cold wrater and be repeatedly manipulated, to free them from any further impurities. If it then seems desirable to bleach them, this is most readily accomplished by immersion for a few minutes, first in a solution of permanganate of potassium (one ounce to two quarts of water), and then in an oxalic-acid solution of the same strength. They are now washed in water and are ready for disinfec- tion. For this it is not sufficient to place them for a short time in either a 5-per-cent, carbolic or a 1-1000 sublimate solution. They should remain in one of these solutions, preferably the latter, for several days. Before being used they are put in sterilized water. Schimmelbusch recommends that before being thrown into the anti- septic solution, they should be immersed for half an hour in a 1-per- cent. soda solution, which has been raised to the boiling-point, but which has been removed from the fire before the sponges, wrapped in a cloth and wrung dry, are suspended in it. If sponges must be used a second time, they ought to be carefully cleaned, to free them from the fibrin which they have taken up, and which is only removed from the meshwork with much labor. It still seems that Lister’s plan of placing the sponges for some days in a tank containing wTater, thus allowing the fibrin to decompose, when it can be easily removed, is one of the best. Then they may again be sterilized as new sponges. In most operations, we can, however, discard sponges altogether, and the substitution for them of small pieces of gauze, or of several layers of gauze sewed together in the shape of a flat sponge, or of cotton sewed into a small sack of gauze, has of late become very popu- lar among surgeons. All these are sterilized by steam, as I shall hereafter describe in speaking of dressings. The small sacks contain- ing cotton are thrown away after being used, but the pieces of gauze can be readily cleaned and re-sterilized. They become rather softer after frequent use, and absorb more readily, and can very conveniently be folded together in any way to suit the occasion. They can be held by dressing forceps, and thus may be used to mop up deep cavities with as much ease as sponges. The most convenient size seems to me from experience to be about eight inches square. The only drawback to their employment is the rather large supply of them which a major operation necessitates. They ought to be used dry, and not moistened with antiseptics, and in consequence thereof they must be laid aside when once saturated with blood or other fluids. Aseptic Ligatures and Sutures.—The materials generally used for this purpose are catgut, silk, silver wire, and silkworm gut. Wire and silkworm gut are readily sterilized by boiling, as they are both imper-