147 TREATMENT. than had been employed in the beginning. For surgical tuberculosis, Konig and Bergmann said early that they had seen no cures; Virchow, that not a single case of any form of tuberculosis had been cured; Ewald was not sure but that the same good results would have followed any other form of treatment; Koehler declared that not a single case of lupus could be cured. The present state of opinion as to the tuberculin treatment can be best illustrated by a discussion in Berlin in connection with a paper read by Thorner.1 Leyden does not wish a new era of tuberculin treatment to be inaugurated; he has ceased using tuberculin, which is not a reli- able diagnostic remedy, even veterinary diagnoses being problematic, though these need not be as exact as in the human being, and therefore are not as important. He has had no therapeutic results; even in tuber- culosis of the larynx only one case has been cured, and this would prob- ably have recovered without the nse of tuberculin. “I consider it per- fectly correct that tuberculin should be dropped in the treatment of tuberculosis, and that its careful application should be permitted only now and then.” Ewald says that the end of the tuberculin period has been marked by the use of very small doses. Tuberculin has no specific effect upon tuberculosis, and therefore it has been given up by the great majority of German physicians. As it is in Germany, so it is everywhere; tuberculin has been tried and found wanting; its history has been described as occurring in Ber- lin ; as it was in Berlin so it was everywhere, as it is in Berlin so it is everywhere. There are still those who use tuberculin; they are in the small minority, but their number will not diminish until something new and more promising shall have been brought out. After Hunter’s work it is difficult to conceive how any one can still use the original fluid; but how some of his bodies (B and CB) may appeal to a physician can be readily understood, and an outcome from the tuberculin treat- ment may still be possible. If this should be the case it must surely come from the direction first followed by Hunter; the original fluid, the tuberculinum depur at urn, and tuberculocidin, are certainly things of the past, and mark an epoch in medical history as instructive as, up to the present day, it has been without practical value or compen- sation. Following close upon the use of tuberculin came Liebreich’s treatment by means of the cantharidates, good results being reported by various observers (Heyman, B. Frankel), and then Tranjen’s with thymolo- acetate of mercury—both, however, meeting with very little favor and, apparently, being soon dropped by the profession. More recently, in connection with the modern ideas of serum-therapy for the purpose of immunization, dog and kid serum have been injected into human beings, and again excellent results have been reported. It would seem, however, that, in this connection, little can be hoped for in the treatment of tuberculosis, since the human being does not become immune to the tubercle bacillus. Indeed, it seems that the greater the number of tubercles present in the human being, the more likelihood of an increase. But we are anx- iously awaiting clinical testimony on the subject of serum-therapy in other diseases, and it may become possible to render a human being 1 Deutsche med. Wochensclirift, 14 Sept., 1893.