INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1032 Vaginal Hysterectomy. Vaginal extirpation of the uterus is most frequently done for cancer,' whether of the neck or of the body, though in the former position, if the disease be limited to the vaginal cervix, excellent authorities prefer removal of the diseased tissue with the electric cautery (Byrne, of Brooklyn), or high amputation (Baker, of Boston). And indeed to ex- tirpation of the uterus on account of cancer, there is by no means unanimous assent, Tait, for example, and more recently Madden, doubt- ing its expediency. .Nevertheless the opponents to the operation form but a small minority. For some days preceding the operation an antiseptic vaginal injec- tion, followed by the introduction of antiseptic gauze, is used every twenty-four hours. If the vagina is narrow, preliminary dilatation is employed; for this purpose Doyen uses the balloon of Gariel for forty-eight hours. Strong forceps, with two, three, or four teeth, represented in the subjoined figure, will be needed to seize the cervix, and draw it ante- Fig. 1787. riorly, posteriorly, laterally, or downward as may he required in the different stages of the operation. (Fig. 1787.) Illustrations of different vaginal separators are presented in Figs. 1788, 1789, 1790, 1791; these instruments are those of Doyen, Pean, and Segond. In addition to ordinary scissors, there should he a pair of long scissors, curved on the flat, and also a scalpel. The question of haemostasis, whether by ligation or by clamping the broad liga- ments, w7ill determine as to having at hand material for ligatures, or clamp forceps. Most operators prefer ligatures to clamps, and the ma- terial commonly used is catgut, though I have seen Winckel use silk- worm gut satisfactorily. Clamp forceps, originally suggested by Sir Spencer Wells, were probably first actually employed by Richelot; various different forms have been invented, and until recently one forceps was used on each side; but now, according to the statement of 1 Id my former contribution to this work, I expressed doubt as to the truth of the state- ment made by several authorities in regard to the negress being relatively exempt from uterine cancer. Dr. Michel, of Charleston, S. C., in the Medical News, October, 1892, proves by his own statistics that the liability to the disease varies but little in the African and in the Caucasian