INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 386 attended to. Of drugs, chloral, morphia, and the bromides may be given. Berger has seen good results follow the use of curare admin- istered subcutaneously. Electricity is often of use. An ice-bag may be applied to the spine, and tepid baths may be made use of. Bibliography.—Von Eiselsberg, Ueber Tetanie im Anschluss an Kropf-Extir- pationen, Wien, 1890; Smith (J. L.), Tetany, Archives of Paediatrics, Phila- delphia, 1889, vol. iv., pp. 372, 468, 532; von Franckl-Hocliwart, Ueber Psychosen bei Tetanic, Jahresbericht fur Psychiatrie, 1889-90, Bd. ix.; von Jaksch, Zeitschrift f. klinische Medicin, 1890, Supplement-Heft, S. 144; Gang- hofner, Ueber Tetanie im Kindesalter, Zeitschrift f. Heilkunde, Bd. xii., S. 447; Schlesinger, Ueber eiuige Svmptome der Tetanie, Zeitschrift f. klinische Medi- cin, Bd. xix., Heft 5 u. 6; Park (Roswell), Tetany, Annals of Surgery, 1890, p. 125; von Jaksch, Ueber Tetanie, Internationale klinische Rundschau, 1889, Bd. iii., S. 2093. Operations which are Practised upon Nerves. Nerve Stretching.—-Bowlby has collected thirteen cases in which death occurred after nerve stretching, from injury to the spinal cord. Nerve Extraction (Thiersch, Witzel).—This operation consists in exposure of the affected nerve, seizing it with an appropriate pair of forceps, and twisting and tearing it away along with many of its periph- eral branches. Thiersch has reported twenty-four cases where the operation was done on branches of the trigeminus, with good and perma- nent results in all hut two. He states that there is not much danger of atrophy following the operation. Division of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves has been performed by Abbe, W. H. Bennett, and others in cases of severe neuralgia and of spasms accompanied by pain. The operation is done by7 removing the laminse of one or more vertebrae and dividing the posterior roots as they lie in the spinal canal. The value of this procedure has not yet been determined. Nerve Suture.—When the ends of a divided nerve are sutured im- mediately after the injury, the procedure is known as “ primary suture when it is done later, as “secondary suture.” Bowlby advises that the ends be sutured under all circumstances, whether they come into ap- position without it or not. He advises also to pass the thread through the entire nerve; but Kolliker 1 says that it is preferable to employ the paraneurotic suture unless there is great tension, or when the ends can- not readily be brought together, as the sutures offer more or less of a hindrance to union. Bowlby, Gluck, and others believe primary union to be possible, and numerous cases are reported where this is said to have occurred. Even after secondary suture apparent primary union has been obtained, in cases reported by Nicaise, Langenbeck, and others. Howell and Huber, Calm and others, however, draw the conclusion from experimental investigation that primary union does not occur. Eighty-one cases of primary nerve suture have been collected by Bowlby; of these 32 were completely successful, 22 were partial suc- cesses, in 12 the result was doubtful, 14 were failures, and in one the 'Die Verletzungen u. cliir. Erkrank. der periph. Nerven, Deutsche Chirurgie, Lief. 24, b.