INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 818 base of the lung, offer but little hope from surgical interference, and as a rule are much better let alone. Gangrenous cavities resulting from the entrance of a foreign body or a punctured wound, and the similar condition seen as the result of croup- ous pneumonia where there is no tuberculous element present, consti- tute decidedly the best class of cases for operative interference, especially if this be not too long delayed. Bronchiectasis.—-Another and totally different variety of pulmonary cavity, due to a dilatation of some part of the bronchial tree, is met with in two forms, the cylindrical and the sacculated. These dilatations may follow the entrance and lodgment of foreign bodies, such as pieces of wood, grass, etc., which find their way into the bronchi from above. Such foreign bodies usually select the right bronchus, which is almost a direct continuation of the main stem, the bifurcation taking place at a point a little below the fourth dorsal spine. The recognition of this fact may be of practical value in attempting to remove obstructions through an opening in the trachea. When foreign bodies have lodged, and it is impossible to remove them, they tend to produce dilatation of the bronchus. These dilatations, unfortunately, are usually multiple; when single (a rare occurrence) the}7 offer a much more favorable field for operative interference. On the other hand, if several adjoining tubes are dilated, but little hope of benefit can be entertained, and an operation should be avoided. To use the language of Mr. Godlee,1 the state of our knowledge as to operations upon lung cavities may be summed up in the following words:— 1. Gangrenous cavities should always be sought for, and if possible opened. The prognosis of the operation, if successful, is not bad. 2. The same may be said in regard to abscesses caused by rupture of purulent collections from other parts into the lungs, at least as regards the pulmonary complication. 3. Abscesses connected with foreign bodies must be opened; the body, if not found and if of any size, probably lies near the median line. If possible, these cases should be treated early by tracheotomy and incision. 4. Bronchiectasis, when single, may be cured by operation; when multiple, the results are unfavorable. 5. Tuberculous cavities should not be opened except in cases where the cough is harassing and the cavity single. The Operation.—The anaesthetic to be employed is preferably chloro- form, and it should be administered very slowly, so as to cause as little irritation as possible. The position of the cavity should be accurately determined, and its location verified by the introduction of an aspirat- ing needle, which may be left in situ as a subsequent guide. After a free incision, about two inches in length, has been made in as dependent a position as possible, the intercostal space is opened up. If sufficient room is not obtainable, a portion of a rib may be resected, giving better exposure of the lung. The next step of the operation is the opening of the cavity, which may be done by the introduction of a trocar and canula, and subse- quent dilatation with a sinus forceps, or by carrying the point of a Paquelin cautery slowly through the lung tissue, leaving a seared track 1 Lancet, vol. i., 1887.