(895) INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION BY JOHN ASHHURST, Jr., M.D., BARTON PROFESSOR OF SURGERY AND PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL, ETC. There is not a great deal to be added to the original article on “In- testinal Obstruction” in Vol. VI. Surgeons still are divided into two camps as to the treatment of this condition, some maintaining that it is right to operate in haste and make a diagnosis afterward at leisure, while others, and I should be glad to think an increasing number, be- lieve, as I certainly do, that the diagnosis should be made first, and that it is not justifiable to open the abdominal cavity without having at least some idea of what is likely to be found amiss, and some rea- sonable hope of being able to remedy what is wrong. Again, it is still almost impossible to persuade the public, and indeed many practition- ers, that there can be more than one cause for obstruction of the bow- els, to wit, impacted faeces, and hence we constantly find patients brought to the last stage of exhaustion by the injudicious administra- tion of purgatives before any suspicion is excited that a condition may be present for which purgatives can only do harm. Intussusception. The most interesting and important addition which has been made to our knowledge of intussusception is the strong plea which has lately been advanced by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson—a surgeon whose opin- ions are always to be listened to with the highest respect—in behalf of systematic kneading and manipulation, which he calls abdominal taxis, in the management of this affection. He records a number of cases in which this mode of treatment proved successful, and urges that taxis for intussusception should be regarded as presenting equal claims to those of the taxis for ordinary strangulated hernia. I have had one opportunity of putting Mr. Hutchinson’s recommendations in practice, and in that instance with most satisfactory results:— The patient was a man in the Pennsylvania Hospital, under the care of mv colleague, Dr. Morris J. Lewis. He had been ill for several days with great abdominal pain, tenesmus, and straining, with constipation, and a tumor in the left flank. The rectum was extremely tender, but there was no discharge of