806 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. time required in doing intestinal anastomosis, and at the same time to avoid many of the unfortunate results which follow simple suture. All of these have been employed successfully by different operators, and merit impartial investigation. Senn has been a pioneer in this field of surgery, and undoubtedly the decalcified bone plates invented by him are much more satisfactory than any of the similar devices employed. Plates made from vegeta- ble substances, such as potato and turnip, or from rawhide or catgut, are inferior when applied for the purposes for which they were designed. It may be urged, upon substantial evidence, that the communication established when any of these methods is used is insufficient, leading to either immediate or remote obstruction; and as an evidence of the general dissatisfaction felt by surgeons in employing any of these methods, it is only necessary to call attention to the fact that each has been abandoned as soon as a more recent plan has been suggested. Recently there has been presented a device for both intestinal resec- tion and anastomosis that for ingenious construction, simplicity, and rapidity of application, excels all others, namely, the Murphy button. Already a large number of cases in which this instrument has been successfully employed have been reported; but while I am not dis- posed to undervalue the service rendered to surgery by this invention, it can hardly be said that sufficient experience has as yet been accumu- lated to warrant its general employment. To those who have not done much experimental work in intestinal surgery, however, it presents a method full of promise. Many circumstances, such as the surroundings of the patient, the lack of skilled assistance, or the patient’s enfeebled condition, may make it advisable to use the Murphy button in prefer- ence to adopting any other method. Certainly no abdominal surgeon should fail to be prepared to use this valuable, time-saving, and often life-saving device.