BASAL FRACTURES. 567 of ptomaines, but certainly, in the case of the former organs, even germs themselves.1 When explaining “Teevan's law” in my former article, it was not also mentioned that splintering is in inverse ratio to momentum, and that much diminution of the fracturing force is effected by its trans- mission through the different layers of the skull, which are of varying density; this helps to explain the extensive shattering of the internal table. Basal Fractures. Prognosis.—-Where there are only non-fatal intracranial lesions complicating the fracture, provided septic meningitis and cerebritis can be prevented, a large percentage of recoveries takes place: thus Wagner reports that twenty-three consecutive cases, that is, all in which the patients survived their injuries more than forty-eight hours, terminated favorably.2 Treatment.—If the line of fracture traverse the petrous portion of the temporal bone,3 the external auditory meatus must be carefully cleansed, all cerumen, dust, or blood being removed, after which care- ful irrigation with warm mercuric-chloride solution (1-2000) should be employed, or hydrogen peroxide may be injected, or the use of the latter may precede that of the former; when thorough disinfection has been accomplished, an antiseptic gauze dressing must be secured over the ear. Where the vault of the pharynx or roof of the nasal cavities is implicated by the fracture, these cavities must be cleansed, first by a hot boric-acid solution, employing for this purpose the posterior nasal syringe, or the same thing may be effected by prolonged spraying of the nose and pharynx. Solutions of thymol, various proportions (1 to 2, 3, or 1) of listerine and water, or boro-salicylic solution, may be used at the onset instead of the boric-acid solution, and some one of them must be employed afterward as often as once every two or four hours. After cleansing, boric acid or safe amounts of sterilized iodoform may be insufflated into the naso-pharynx, while the nostrils must be lightly plugged with loose rolls of some variety of antiseptic gauze.4 In accessible portions of the base, as some portions of the occipital and temporal bones, and the orbital plate of the frontal bone, operative inter- ference may, in suitable cases, render valuable service by effecting drainage, and by affording a better opportunity for disinfection.5 The recent suggestion to immobilize the fragments by a plaster-of- Paris cap has not as yet been carried into practice, and would seem to be of too little practical value to warrant the annoyance and the inter- ference with other measures which it would entail. 1 This statement has been as positively denied as asserted. 2 W. Wagner (Konigshutte), op. cit. 3 J. C. Warren contends that a blow on the ear will fracture the base, the fissure passing along the upper wall of the auditory meatus, the petrous bone being weakened by its fora- men ; he has demonstrated this upon the cadaver. 4 Of course such attempts at asepsis are only approximately successful, but (Wagner, op. cit.) even partial asepsis has markedly lowered the mortality of these cases. 5 Punctured wounds of the orbit must be so treated, by enlarging the opening, disinfecting, and introducing a drainage tube. See also Allis, loc. cit. ; Warren, loc. cit.