854 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. is established, but at the bedside there arise many conditions of which the management is debatable. There is yet widely disseminated in the mind of the profession a confidence in the so-called opium treat- ment of peritonitis. This condition of affairs does not admit of expla- nation. After many years’ experience in both hospital and private practice I have yet to see the utility of the so-called opium treatment. I have seen it mask symptoms, and establish in the minds of the phy- sicians and of the patient’s friends a feeling of hopefulness, quickly dashed to the ground by the patient’s sudden death. It is very diffi- cult to define the proper position of opium or its alkaloids in the treat- ment of peritonitis. The indications for its exhibition, as they appear in the light of recent practice, will be given in detail at the proper place. The treatment by hydragogue cathartics, chiefly saline, is sub- ject to certain limitations. There can be no doubt, however, that this plan, so earnestly advocated by Mr. Lawson Tait, is preferable to the indiscriminate use of opium.1 The matter of the prophylactic treatment can only enter into the management of peritonitis following operations. Surgeons fully ap- preciate the importance of the condition of the intestinal canal in abdo- minal surgery. Where it is not imperative to operate immediately, the complete evacuation of the bowels forms a distinct indication for pre- liminary treatment. Tendencies to intestinal distention from indiges- tion should always be corrected, as far as possible, by suitable diet and medication. The broad subject of the aseptic technique in abdominal surgery cannot be entered upon in detail, but it can only be said that great experience and care are required in the organization of such opera- tions. However careful the surgeon may be, now and then, from defects or omissions in technique, from environment, or from serious inherent difficulties of the operation, peritonitis will follow. It should not occur often, it will occur occasionally. Post-operative peritonitis is, as a rule, septic and virulent, and its treatment must be active and immediate. Given a case of peritonitis, diffuse and septic in character, what shall be done? There is but one course that offers to the patient any hope of recovery, and that is abdominal section performed at once. Unless there are special indications, the median incision will serve the operator best. If due to perforation of the stomach, intestine, or ap- pendix, these conditions must first receive proper treatment by suture or excision. The abdomen should be flushed with sterile, normal salt solution, 6-1000, at a temperature of 105° to 110° F.2 The addition of two per cent, of alcohol to the irrigating fluid is advantageous in reliev- ing shock. Several gallons may often be used with advantage. The fluid should return clear before the flushing is discontinued. A full- 1 [The Editor feels compelled to express his dissent from this sweeping condemnation of the use of opium in peritoneal inflammation. For his own part he looks upon this drug as the most valuable single remedy for peritonitis, and is confident that by its systematic use, in connection with local depletion by leeches, he has saved the lives of many patients suffering from inflammation of the peritoneum who without it would have perished. By its syste- matic use is meant not the exhibition of an occasional dose as an anodyne, but continuous ad- ministration in the way recommended by the late Dr. Alonzo Clark—one grain of solid opium, or its equivalent, every hour, day and night, until the patient’s respirations are brought down to twelve in the minute. As for the “masking of symptoms, ” the only symptom thus af- fected is pain, and even if the absence of pain were an evil, which it is not, it would be more than compensated for by the increased facility given for physical examination by per- cussion and palpation.] 2 Thorough sponging with gauze will sometimes answer without flushing.