(327) SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. BY J. ABBOTT CANTRELL, M.D., PROFESSOR OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN IN THE POLYCLINIC HOSPITAL AND COLLEGE FOR GRADUATES IN MEDICINE; PHYSICIAN FOR SKIN DISEASES TO THE SOUTHERN DISPENSARY, PHILADELPHIA. The following pages are intended as a supplement to the valuable article of Dr. J. C. White in Vol. III. The section on molluscum con- tagiosum has been entirely rewritten; there has been added a new sec- tion devoted to the description of psorospermosis; numerous minor additions have been made; and favorite forms of treatment, which have stood the test of years, have been described. Affections of the Sebaceous Glands. Milium.—Treatment.—The removal of these structures can usually be accomplished by making a slight incision in their most prominent part, and then expressing their contents by pressure applied to either side by means of the finger-nail or the edge of a knife. The bleed- ing is easily checked by direct pressure on the part. The application of the green soap (Sapo viridis), of German manufacture, exerts a curative effect by removing the upper layer of the epidermis and allow- ing the contents to escape. Electrolysis, applied as in removing super- fluous hair from the face, is followed by a rapid disappearance of the morbid condition. Molluscum Contagiosum. Synonyms: Molluscum sebaceum; Epi- thelioma molluscum (Virchow); Acne varioliformis (Bazin); Condyloma subcutaneum.—The contagiousness of this affection, which was main- tained by Bateman after having witnessed it in three persons in whom he had traced the source of contagion to a fourth, has been the oc- casion of decided controversy for some years. Numerous inoculations, which are said to have been successful, have been recorded. The dis- ease is marked by small or large, from pin-head to large pea-sized, semiglobular, raised or somewhat flattened, so-called tumors of the skin, which as a rule are shiny and transparent, and of a pinkish or lilac color, but often have the appearance of a common warty growth. The lesions in most instances are sessile, but often pedunculated ; at