846 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. that there is some micro-parasite which is essential to the production of cancer. Furthermore, he considers cancer as allied to syphilis, tuber- culosis, glanders, leprosy, and actinomycosis. He believes that we may reasonably anticipate as effective a remedy for cancer as mercury and quinine have proved for syphilis and malaria. Injections of Methyl Violet in the Treatment of Cancer.—Prof, von Mosetig-Moorhof 1 uses solutions of methyl violet or pyoktanin (1-1000, 1-500, 1-3000) injected into the growth until the pathological tissue is thoroughly impregnated with the coloring fluid. The diseased tissue is alone affected. Enclosed tumors do not disintegrate, but undergo a retrograde metamorphosis and contract. Open tumors secrete profusely and diminish in size more rapidly. There have been no cures from this practice, but marked diminution in size has been observed. Idelson, of Berne, in a review of the literature on this subject2 says that the value or efficacy of pyoktanin in the cure of epithelioma is not yet established, and that the successes are outnumbered by the failures. The evidence is not conclusive that this method exerts a retarding influence upon the development of cellular growth. In one instance a case of very rapidly growing myxo-sarcoma was treated for a long time by daily injections of pyoktanin. The-solution permeated the structure in all directions. A microscopic examination of the scrapings after the use of the remedy was made by Dr. Whitney, who reported that the cells were distinctly invaded by the solution. Repeated ob- servations convinced me that this method had no effect whatever in re- tarding the development of the disease. Though having apparently so little effect upon the luxurious growths sometimes seen in sarcomata, there is considerable evidence that in the slower development seen in some phases of cancer this method is worth trying. In no event, how- ever, should dependence be placed upon injections unless free extirpa- tion is impracticable. Escharotics.—Of all escliarotics, cliloride-of-zinc solution is the most satisfactory. In the case just alluded to, in which pyoktanin failed, the daily application for a short time of a fifty-per-cent, solution of chloride of zinc was attended by very favorable results. In this case the tissues of the thorax had become exposed to a diameter of about eight inches. From the base of this expanse luxuriant masses of dis- ease sprang. A daily application, for a few moments, of gauze wrung out in a fifty-per-cent, solution of chloride of zinc was followed by a local destruction of the growth, though a permanent cure was not ac- complished in this manner. The use of escharotics, however, is very unsatisfactory and never should be resorted to except when excision is impracticable. Treatment by the Injection of the Streptococcus of Erysipelas or Its Products.—The germ theory of cancer has suggested the inoculation of micro-organisms, or their products, for the purpose of combating the original disease. It was observed many years ago that the frequent occurrence of erysipelas was followed by beneficial results in the con- valescence from cancer. Feilchenfeld 3 reports a case of inoculation with erysipelas, fatal in 1 Wien. med. Presse, 1891, No. 32, S. 6. 2 Annals of Surgery, 1892, vol. xvi., p. 88. 8 Arch. f. klin. Cliir., 1888, Bd. xxxviii., S. 834.