SURGICAL DISEASES. OF THE HEAD. 636 done one operation by this method successfully. The roots of the fifth nerve were not torn from the pons, but were cut by scissors. Hartley, of New York,‘has published still another extradural method, as follows. (Figs. 1694, 1695.) A large osteoplastic flap of scalp, muscle, and bone is made in the region of the temple. This flap should Fig. 1694. Hartley’s Operation for Removal of the Gasserian Ganglion; Separating the Flap. begin just in front of the auricle, a little above the zygoma, the base being about two inches antero-posteriorly, and the height of the flap three inches. It is best made with Hartley’s or Pyle’s chisels. By two or three elevators placed under the circumference of the bone the flap is raised and its base fractured; the flap is then turned down, ex- posing the dura. The middle meningeal artery may if necessary he ligated, either now or subsequently, just above the foramen spinosum. By the finger the dura is next stripped from the floor of the middle fossa. Care must be taken during this separation that the middle meningeal is not torn at the foramen spinosum. In one of my cases the artery was torn so close to the foramen that it could not be tied. The hemorrhage was gradually controlled, first by the finger and then by packing with iodoform gauze. The dura is separated until the second and third divisions of the nerve are seen. These are divided at their foramina, their distal ends pushed through the latter, and their proximal ends or stumps traced back to the ganglion. The nerves should be ex- sected together with the ganglion, or the ganglion itself may he destroyed as before. The ganglion in a very few cases has been removed as a rec- ognizable mass. In Stewart’s case (see Table) the first division was re- moved with the ganglion, and yet, strange to say, no trophic changes took place in the eye. Krause2 has described a precisely similar operation, 1 New York Med. Journal, March 19, 1892, and Annals of Surgery, May, 1896, p. 512. 2 Archiv f. kiln. Chir., 1892, Bd. xliv., S. 821.