85 ERYSIPELAS. mia, there is nothing left except the very interesting appearance of ulcers in the small intestine, and of transitory liyperaemia of the mu- cous membrane of the gut, with hemorrhagic diarrhoea. We have also to speak shortly of erysipelas of the mucous membranes, which doubtless occurs, and the course of which is very analogous to the course of erysipelas of the skin. ' The only difference is the great difficulty in the diagnosis of erysipelas of the mucous membranes, which really cannot be made with any certainty until the disease has passed over to the cutis, and there shown its typical symptoms. This difficulty makes it more than probable that a great many of these cases have really very little or nothing to do with erysipelas, which has been mixed up with diphtheria, pyaemia, and other acute infectious diseases. The favorite places of erysipelas of the mucous membranes are the cavity of the mouth, with its adnexa—nose, pharynx, larynx, etc.—the female genital tract, and the rectum. There are also cases reported where ulcers in the antrum of Highmore, and in the sphenoid and ethmoid cavities, gave rise to erysipelas, which was recognized as such when it made its appearance upon the skin. Of the first group, erysipelas of the pharynx with its complications, especially oedema of the glottis, is most dreaded. Cflottic oedema in erysipelas seems to be mostly fatal, in spite of intubation and tracheo- tomy. An explanation of this can only be found in the fact that the serous infiltration of the mucous and submucous cellular tissue in the region of the epiglottis, ary-epiglottic ligament, etc., is transformed into pus, leading to fatal septic and pysemic symptoms. Or fatal ca- chexia may be caused by extensive suppuration of the larynx itself. Be- sides this, the usual dangers, as in diphtheria, such as poisoning by carbonic acid, and its consequences, come into consideration. The second group occurs especially in the puerperium; I have men- tioned above the many lesions which delivery brings about, from any of which erysipelas may start. It is, of course, a contact-infection, like all the others, a fact which has led modern physicians to avoid internal manual examination, during delivery, as much as possible. All that has been said of erysipelas in other organs might be repeated here, with only slight modifications. The danger of mistaking other infections, especially pyaemia, for erysipelas, is very great. There is one point which is characteristic of erysipelas in the puerperium, which is the possibility of an infection by way of the milk from the mother to the child, streptococci having been found in the milk. Another fact to be mentioned is, that an erysipelatous infection, starting from the genital tract of the mother, during the last days of pregnancy or even in the beginning of delivery, may be transferred infra uterum from mother to foetus, by wav of the lymphatic ducts. The diagnosis of well-developed ordinary erysipelas of the cutis is, in typical cases, very easy and hardly to be mistaken. All the character- istic local symptoms mentioned above, especially the local reddening and swelling of the skin, with the acute rise of temperature, and the course of the disease, already described, are so well-marked that any one who has seen them once will not fail to recognize them again. The prognosis of erysipelas is generally not unfavorable, but, since we have no absolutely reliable means by which to stop its propagation, as will appear hereafter, we cannot guarantee a favorable result, even