INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 5G4 In operations for epilepsy, for insanity,1 or for fractures where no serious lesion of the dura exists, and asepsis has been secured, capillary drainage, preferably by catgut, may he employed. Where large bone fragments have been replaced, only capillary drainage is available. In compound fractures with lesions of the dura, where there is doubt as to the attainment of perfect asepsis, tube drainage had better be employed for forty-eight hours. Tube drainage is always indicated for abscess.2 Prompt union of the flap should be secured by accurate coaptation with medium-sized interrupted silk sutures, placed one-tliird of an inch apart, with intermediate stitches of fine silk or horsehair. If capillary drainage be used, the threads must be kept parallel, in close contact, and cut off square, and the protective must extend some distance beyond their ends. Tube drainage should not be kept up, except for pus, beyond twenty- four hours. With an experienced operator Horsley’s plan is probably safe, viz., accurate suturing of the whole line of incision except for about an inch at the most dependent point, “ where any tension of wound discharges can relieve itself by escape between the edges,” but capillary drainage is safe, effective, and should always be employed when in doubt. The primary voluminous antiseptic dressing must be carefully renewed so as to make gentle pressure over the centre of the flap at the end of twenty- four hours, if tube drainage has been employed, since this should then be dispensed with; otherwise the dressing need not be disturbed, unless the symptoms indicate retention of discharges, when they must be given vent by means of a sterilized probe gently introduced along the track of the drainage-tube, or between the stitches if no drainage has been used.3 After from five to seven days I have usually removed the stitches, supporting the flap with gauze strips and collodion, and applying a boric acid and cotton dressing instead of the antiseptic gauze. Temporary Resection of the Cranial Wall as a Substitute for Trephining.—The soft parts are incised down to the periosteum in the form of the Greek omega, and allowed to retract; the periosteum is divided close to the border of the flap, the bone is chiselled through along the line of the periosteal incision, and the bridge of bone at the base of the omega is divided subcutaneously with a narrow chisel; the osteo-cutaneous flap is then lifted up with elevators and replaced after completion of the operation. Specially constructed chisels have been recommended, but ordinary narrow bone-chisels will suffice in careful hands. Use of the Chisel instead of the Trephine.—This instrument is preferred by Mr. Chiene and by many German and American opera- tors. Unquestionably for the cutting out of cracks it is preferable to any other instrument, and doubtless in experienced hands is as safe, or safer, for perforating the cranium than a trephine; but for the average operator the trephine is, in my opinion, the better instrument. • 1 See Park, op. cit., for cases where drainage was dispensed with. - Iodoform gauze is employed for drainage by some operators. Unless hemorrhage is to he controlled by the pressure I can see no advantage in this, and some disadvantages. 3 See Horsley’s papers as to the advantages accruing from this liquid compression, which serves to repress the tendeney to hernia cerebri and prevents firm cicatricial adhesion between the flap and the membranes, or the brain.