DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. 80 disease, and can differentiate other coincident symptoms >vhich have noth- ing to do with the original malady, and can ascribe them to their proper causes. It cannot surprise us, to-day, that out of one hundred or one hundred and fifty patients with typhoid fever, some of whom will have bed-sores, one should develop the symptoms of erysipelas, starting, of course, from the ulcer; and we should never think of constructing a com- plicated explanation of this phenomenon. There is quite an extensive literature, with most exact statistics, about the concurrence of erysipe- las with typhus abdominalis and typhus recurrens, which is entirely without value for us. We cannot be surprised, either, to find reports of erysipelas starting from the point of administration of a hypodermic injection, which is really a true bacteriological experiment of inocula- tion on man. It is hardly necessary to go through the other diseases mentioned above, which may concur with erysipelas; but it seems to me that one point should not be omitted, and that is, the connection of erysipelas with puerperal fever. It is sufficient to mention the names of Ingleby, Hutchinson, Levergood, Clarke, Storrs, Simpson, Graves, Minor, Hincks Bird, Kneeland, Elkington, Hodge, Wilson, Silencer Wells, Squire, Tilbury Fox, Nunneley, Trousseau, Masson, Hadry, Vir- chow, Hirsch, Rust, and a great many others, to show what able authorities have directed their attention to this combination. It is somewhat remarkable that not before our century was the iden- tity of erysipelas with some forms of puerperal fever accepted, since it is eminently obvious that the puerperium is especially favorable to erysipelatous infection, if we only think of all the lesions, lacerations, and abrasions on the labia, in the vagina and cervix uteri, and specially of the large wound in the uterus itself at the insertion of the placenta. The close relations which are said to exist between erysipelas and puer- peral fever may he formulated thus: Wherever the conditions in hos- pitals, lying-in hospitals, etc., are such that we find epidemics of puerperal fever, there is just as much chance for erysipelas as for any other wound-complications, so-called puerperal fever, septicaemia, etc., as all these infections are brought about, not by any impalpable virus, as poisonous air, but by bodily inoculation with hands, instruments, cloths, bandage-material, etc. The practical result of our study of this question is indeed a very beneficial one; every midwife and phy- sician, who has a case of erysipelas in confinement, must know that she or he is alone responsible for it, if in charge of the case from the beginning. If nurses or physicians, who have treated cases of ery- sipelas, cannot avoid attending to confinements, they must be aware of the danger to their patients, and therefore disinfect their hands, clothes, etc., as rigidly as possible. All the reports about the occur- rence of epidemics in hospitals of erysipelas and puerperal fever, explain themselves very easily to us by contact-infection; and that we are right in this explanation, is shown by the fact that we know how to avoid such epidemics to-day. It can be of but little interest to us to follow studies about the oc- currence and distribution of erysipelas, the influence of climate, season, weather, etc. It is enough to say, that erysipelas can and does occur anywhere on the face of the earth, and at any time. Surely, of just as little importance is the question of race, sex, and constitution.