280 TUMORS. have been very unfavorable, not a single case of cure being on record; this is doubtless owing to the too limited scope of removal, in a region where, on account of its complicated form, free excision is especially needful. Kronacher reports a case of primary epithelioma of the hard palate, where the disease is a great rarity, originating in an alveolar abscess of long standing. Carcinoma of the soft palate is also not common, Bosworth finding 20 cases, all but one in males, and one occurring in a child only four and a half years old (Berg). Gross saw the disease follow a papilloma; Brissaud saw it preceded by leukoplakia. Busachi reports a case of adeno-carcinoma (a rare form here), the size of a child’s fist, which was removed successfully from the soft palate of a woman 49 years of age, and which he supposes to have originated from the palatal mucous glands. The disease seldom spreads to surrounding parts, although it is prone to return after removal, and the prognosis cannot be said to be very good. A better result might probably be obtained by very free removal of the neighboring tissues. The lymphat- ic glands are frequently affected. Carcinoma of the pharynx, according to Bosworth, seldom extends from the naso-pharynx downward, or vice versa, and is more common in the lower portion. It is very fatal, invading the glands early, often making a very large glandular tumor while the primary ulcer is so minute as to escape observation. Death occurs early, and this is prob- ably the reason why metastasis is not common. The disease usually attacks the lateral walls, but Laquer, and Edgren and Quenset, have lately reported cases where the posterior wall was attacked; in one case the disease had not recurred nine months after operation. Carcinoma of the tonsil is not so rare as is generally supposed, and of the regions we are considering, with the sole exception of the mouth, the tonsil is the most frequent seat of the disease. Carcinoma of the tonsil is even more common than sarcoma, a fact which Bosworth ex- plains by supposing it to be due to the usually late period of life at which tumors of the tonsil appear, a period when its lymphoid tissue has chiefly atrophied, leaving the epithelial element in the preponderance. Bryant, however, reports a case occurring at the age of 17 years. Glandular involvement is the rule, although metastasis is rare. As the disease progresses, pain is marked; ulceration takes place early, and may lead to fatal hemorrhage. Death follows rapidly, usually within a year after the discovery of the tumor. In 118 cases Bosworth could find only one of cure by operation, that of Mikulicz, in which the patient was alive and well two and a half years subsequently. ' The results of treatment in cancer of these regions are poor enough, and, owing to the concealed position of the growths, and the difficulty of properly attacking them without extensive preliminary operations, such as pharyngotomy, resection of the jaws, etc., surgeons and patients are too apt to be content with limited removals, which are only pallia- tive. The good results, however, recently obtained by Mikulicz, Iver- sen, Caselli, Kocher, and others, who have resected large portions of the pharynx while attacking carcinomata of the larynx, of the base of the tongue, etc., show that with equal boldness the operative results might be improved and cures obtained even here. The surgeon must bear in mind that it is not the size of the malignant growth, but its