144 SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. therein by ambitious medical individuals, and what with the govern- ment, Koch and his followers, the patients, the doctors, and the medical and lay press, there ensued a period such as has never been seen before in medical history, hut which resulted in a large number of experiments on human beings which must bring a certain amount of knowledge. During this period objections were raised to tuberculin by Leyden, Kaposi, Arloing, and Goldschmidt, as to its diagnostic value; Henoch and Litten warned against its use in tubercular meningitis; Ewald saw physical evidences of consolidation and even of cavities appear, and spoke of a death after injecting gm. 0.0002 in a case of lupus from disseminated catarrhal pneumonia in both lungs; Paul Guttmann stated that haemoptysis was a temporary contra-indication, but there were men of very good reputation who did not hesitate to speak of results after having used the remedy for three weeks. Thus did the printed matter increase, every country possessing its own Koch disciples and enthusiasts, until there seemed to be no end to tuberculin literature. It was left to the master-mind of Virchow to bring some order into this chaos, and, at the same time, to check the ever-increasing number of human experiments, by his authoritative statement from the post-mor- tem room. About three months after Koch’s first publication, Vir- chow made the following statements about tuberculin: It produced enormous hyperremia; hemorrhage (one case died of haemoptysis from an old cavity); positive inflammation, especially at the edges of ulcera- tions and in the lymphatic glands (leucocytosis); oedema of the glottis, and phlegmonous retropharyngitis. In the lungs it might be followed by caseous hepatization and phlegmonous catarrhal pneumonia, in all prob- ability by fresh sub-miliary tuberculosis, which was not affected by the remedy. Again, all tubercles were not affected; those that were might give up their bacilli, producing secondary infection. He warned against the use of tuberculin, especially in ulcerative processes. This state- ment marked, as it were, the end of the period of enthusiasm, only inter- rupted by the second communication of Koch. In this communication Koch reported cures and repeated the claims of his first article. He now gave some information regarding the nature of tuberculin; it was a glycerin extract of tubercle pure cultures; the active substance could be precipitated by alcohol, but was not a toxalbumin, as it withstood high temperatures and could be dialyzed; about one-fourth per cent, of this was contained in tuberculin. We now come to the discussion of the second period in the history of this remarkable remedy; one in which sober thought, careful investi- gation, and criticism, took the place of blind faith and thoughtless fol- lowing of a great leader. In this second period not a single claim which Koch made in his first paper remained unchallenged, so that the query arises why Koch should have published as he did, and then have followed up his first publication by a second one amplifying the first and maintaining its supposed truths. Rumors of various sorts have been spread explaining the prematurity of publication; much may be done to rehabilitate the confidence, now lost, in Koch, yet the fact re- mains that the medical profession of the world has been reduced from a condition of joy and happiness in the discovery of a remedy for tuber- culosis, to one of distrust and disappointment, much to the detriment of other discoveries that may be made. The effect upon the public has been