ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 556 Rigid forms of apparatus, made of steel and webbing, are numerous.1 They aim to make pressure upon the projecting ribs, while a crutch-head assists in elevating the depressed axilla. The effect that they produce is slight, but they are useful as reminders to the patient that the erect posture must be maintained. Shaffer’s instrument is light and conve- nient. When rapid increase of deformity is taking place, it is sometimes necessary to employ one of these means of support until gymnastics, etc., can restore sufficient muscular power to enable the body to maintain its equilibrium. The corsets of thick, heav}T webbing some- times used are very objectionable. Beeley2 has drawn attention to a most important point in the con- struction of spinal apparatus, by insisting upon the careful and accurate fitting of the pelvic band. (3) Forcible Restitution.—Many efforts have been made from early periods to replace the distorted portions of the trunk, and these methods have recently been resuscitated. Adjustable pads and levers, placed against the projecting ribs while the pelvis and shoulders were secured, have long been in use. Present plans include forcible bending of the body over a fulcrum, either a strap ora fixed body; forcible twisting by the appliances of Brackett,3 Weigel,4 Schede,5 Lorenz, Hoff a,6 and others, the patient being erect or suspended ; or heavy-weighting of the projecting parts while the patient is in a stooping position, as in Beeley’s apparatus. The weights upon the straps in the latter appli- ance may be fifty or sixty pounds, and should be continued as long as they can be tolerated by the patient. Many of the instruments above alluded to are regulated by adjustable screws and pads, and are trouble- some and expensive. To restore the rotated bodies of the vertebrae is still an uncertain procedure, although a certain amount of gain may be accomplished. Torticollis. Much of the difference of opinion between authors is explained by the fact that they have failed to distinguish spasmodic and intermittent wry- neck from structural shortening of the muscles. The latter is a con- dition which ordinarily ma’y be permanently relieved by myotomy with subsequent massage and gymnastics of the muscles; the former is a most troublesome and intractable disease which resists all forms of treatment, and which appears to depend upon a central nerve lesion. In the intermittent variety the distress is often excessive from the involuntary painful contraction interfering even with sleep. The seat of the disease lies in the cord, at the root of the spinal accessory or upper spinal nerves, or from some lesion along their course. The most common causes are local traumatism, sudden nervous shock, direct effect of cold, and some constitutional diseases, such as rheumatism. Ordinarily adults are affected. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of wry-neck from cases of cervical spinal 1 Bradford and Lovett, op. cit., 1890, p. 165. 2 Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1891. 3 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, May 11, 1893. 4 Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1893, vol. vi., p. 265. 5 Deutsche med. Woehensehrift, 1892, Bd. xviii., S. 249. 6 Zeitschrift fur otrtliop. Chirurg., 1891.