INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. 674 The Tear Passages.—It is now admitted that the most frequent cause of obstruction of the tear passages is swelling of the nasal mucous membrane, which closes the nasal end of the duct and causes a dam- ming of the tears in the sac, epiphora, dacryocystitis, or abscess. A case is reported by Malgat where a piece of lettuce which was forced into the duct during the act of sneezing caused an abscess. Syphilis is a frequent primary cause of obstruction of the tear passages, usually beginning in the nose. Lachrymal abscess sometimes occurs in women during the early months of pregnancy, and, according to Mr. Powers, is caused by the congestion of the nasal mucous membrane following vomiting. Sometimes epiphora is caused by papillomatous growths obstructing the canaliculi, but this is rare. Treatment.—When cases of epiphora are seen in the beginning it is generally easy to prevent serious consequences, but unfortunately, when the case is seen by the surgeon, the mischief often has already been done. For the slighter cases caused by catarrhal inflammation of the conjunctiva and adjoining mucous membranes it will be sufficient to wash out the sac with a weak solution of bichloride of mercury (1 in 10,000), boric acid and salt, or peroxide of hydrogen properly diluted with boiled water. At the same time the nasal mucous membrane should receive appropriate treatment by spraying, douching, insuffla- tion of powders, or stronger applications, according to the condition of the parts. It is difficult to abort an abscess after it has once begun to form, and it should therefore be poulticed and opened early by a longitudinal incision at the most prominent part. The sac and infil- trated tissues may now he carefully cleansed by injecting an aseptic solution through the opening. As soon as the inflammation has suffi- ciently subsided treatment of the sac should be commenced through the canaliculus, either being used. Ophthalmic surgeons are becoming more conservative in dealing with the tear passages, and though there are still a considerable number who slit up the canaliculi for prepara- tory treatment, many are coming to the conclusion that it is far better to treat these affections with as little mutilation of the parts as possible. Therefore they dilate the canaliculus until sufficiently large to admit the small nozzle of a syringe, and by this means the sac is cleansed, for if the liquid fails to pass through the duct it will escape by the other canaliculus. Generally it will be found that a variable quantity passes through into the nose, and that is reason enough for not cutting strictures by specially devised knives, or using large- sized probes that make gutters of capillary tubes. It must he ad- mitted that in cases of lachrymal abscess when the tissues of the face have become infiltrated, and the bones of the orbit and nose are in- volved, it may be necessary to slit a canaliculus in order that the parts may be more thoroughly cleansed. Dividing strictures only causes the formation of cicatricial tissue which will prove a future menace to the lumen of the duct. The employment of large probes seems unneces- sary, for in reality the probe should only be of sufficient size to give an outlet to the fluids, and should be used only as long as may be needed for the parts to recover their normal condition, which is now more readily accomplished than formerly, by strictly aseptic measures. When the duct becomes occluded by bone at the nasal end, the treat- ment advocated by Caldwell is probably the best. He uses an electri-