DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 664 although it is still a problem whether the entire process of separation of carious bone is hastened by this procedure, as the curette necessarily destroys a superficial layer of bone cells. Chipault1 gives the history of the attempts made by Treves, Lannelongue, Reclus, and others for the removal of carious bone, and concludes that it is possible to curette the body of a vertebra even in front of the cord.2 The incision should be outside the border of the erector spinse muscle, say two and one-half inches from the median line, until the transversalis fascia is reached, when this membrane should be followed to the transverse process. The attachments to the transverse process must be removed, and the quadratus separated from the psoas. The ab- dominal branches of the lumbar arteries may be followed. Removing the transverse process by rongeur forceps the front of the vertebral body can be reached, and the diseased area should then be thoroughly cu- retted. After this the diseased surface should be mopped with pure carbolic acid to prevent absorption of septic material, and the parts thoroughly drained. Unfortunately it is not possible to determine whether the entire extent of caries is reached; hence, while the process of suppuration may be shortened, it may not be entirely prevented. Shimwell3 advises an incision from the middle of Poupart’s ligament, curved upward nearly to the ribs, with the convexity outward. When the transverse fascia is reached its layers are separated until the pro- montory of the sacrum is exposed. Another incision is made on the outer side of the erector spime down to the posterior leaflet of the trans- versalis fascia, having passed through which it is easy to work back to the body of the vertebra. Through these openings the body may be readily examined, curetted, and drained. In the dorsal region the operation becomes more difficult, since the articulating processes and the heads and necks of the ribs must be re- moved in order to reach the anterior part of the vertebrae. Vincent4 reports that he has been able not only to remove the carious body of the vertebra after resection of the ribs, but also to carry a drainage tube in front of the cord. I have been able to accomplish this in one instance where the body had been largely eroded and its place occupied by a large caseous cavity, but in all other cases, and in some twenty-five experiments upon living dogs, I have not been able to reach the front of the vertebral body without opening the pleura, which lies in close proximity to the articular process. It is scarcely possible to avoid this accident unless the pleura has been pushed forward by the disease. The articular processes and the ribs are to be resected subperiosteally. The intercostal muscles are to be separated, the pleura detached, and the fungosity followed to the site of flexion of the spinal column, or within the premedullary triangle caused by the destruction of the vertebral bodies. An incision upon the opposite side and the use of a long probe will permit the passage of a drainage tube through the caseating or suppurating mass which occupies the original position of the body of the vertebra. By this method thorough drainage is secured, and iodoform or other local remedies may be introduced. Vincent also practises lateral trephining of the body of even a 1 Revue de Chirurgie, 7 Nov., 1891. 2 Chipault, Dublin Med. Journal, June 1, 1892. 3 Med. News, Oct. 21, 1893. 4 Revue de Cliirurgie, 1892-93, p. 273.