LINEAR CRANIOTOMY FOR MICROCEPHALUS. 625 may have one or more lateral branches. Where the faulty develop- ment is chiefly in the frontal region, it would be best, as in one of Park’s cases, to make a groove transversely and a little in front of the biauric- ular line. The dura at the superior longitudinal sinus can with care be loosened from the bone without rupturing the walls of the sinus. Soon after the publication of Lannelongue’s first case I reported the first operated on in America.1 Since then a large number of other cases have been recorded, by Wyeth,2 Broca." Park,1 Lannelongue,5 myself,6 and others. The results have been very various. The mortality is large, averaging, even with Lannelongue's favorable report, about 20 to 25 per cent. This would naturally be expected, inasmuch as these children are almost always feebly developed, and while the loss of blood is as a rule moderate, yet the shock of so extensive an operation must be very great. For this reason it is never advisable to operate on both sides at once. An interval of from two to four weeks should intervene be- tween the successive operations. Hence also the danger should be very fully explained to the parents, as otherwise they may justly blame the surgeon. The limits of age I should place at about 9 months for the mininum, as under that age the child would be too feeble, and about 8 or 9 years for the maximum; Park,7 however, has reported one of his best results in a boy 9 years of age, and older patients have been operated on. As to the effect on the mental development, the majority of the patients who recover from the operation show no improvement. Quite a number show a moderate degree of improvement, while in a few instances this has been very gratifying indeed. In one of my own cases, in which the mental state of the child has been comparatively little improved, the operation has been of the greatest value to the mother, inasmuch as before the operation the child demanded constant care, both day and night. Since the operation the mother is relieved very much during the day, and at night obtains a sound sleep in- stead of being wakened repeatedly at very short intervals. This to a working-woman with other children to care for is very important. As a general conclusion, therefore, my own judgment is that the opera- tion is at present justifiable, in cases of decided microcephalus. In cases of simple idiocy without microcephalus, I should unquestionably be unwilling to perform an operation. I have refused a large number of cases, in some few of which I have had reason to believe that the parents sought it with a view to being relieved of the care of the child by death. In one of my cases, in which, at the Infirmary for Nervous Diseases, a year previously, Dr. Weir Mitchell had made measurements of the head, and in which I had made independent measurements at the time of operation, these measurements were identical, thus showing not the slightest increase in the size of the child’s head during the year. One year after the operation the circumference of the head had increased 1.5 centimetres. This would lend probability to the view that, whatever may be our theory as to the cause of microcephalus, 1 Med. News, Nov. 29, 1890. 2 Medical Record, Feb. 21, 1891. 3 Rev. de Chir., 1891, p. 37. 4 Med. News, Dec. 3, 1892, p. 649. 5 Rev. de Cliir., Mai, 1891, p. 368. 6 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, June, 1891. ' Med. News, 1892, vol. lxi., p. 649. VOL. VII.—40