711 TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTOID OPERATION. The After-management of the Wound.—During the first twenty-four hours following the operation there is apt to be a somewhat active ooz- ing of bloody serum from the wound, and special provision should be made to catch this abundant escape of fluid. A pad composed of several thicknesses of iodoform gauze is first laid over the wound, and then over this is placed a large mass (a double handful) of absorbent cotton. A few turns of a gauze bandage, carried from the back of the neck over the forehead, will keep the whole firmly in position. It is not usually necessary to leave a drainage tube in the wound. The only thing that may render this desirable is the discovery, after the horizontal part of the wound has been sutured, that the anterior flap completely over- laps the posterior edge of the excavation in the bone, and so threatens to interfere with the free escape of discharge from the deeper parts of the ear. In anticipation of this difficulty, it has been my rule, in recent years, to cut out a shallow groove in the surface of the mastoid hone, from the posterior edge of the excavation backward to the posterior edge of the wound in the skin. This supplies all the mechanical requis- ites of a drainage tube, and greatly facilitates the introduction of a can- ula for irrigation purposes. When the skin surrounding the wound looks red and tense, wet applications will be found the most suitable. A soft linen pad, saturated in a wash composed of one part of alcohol to three parts of a 1-3000 or 1-1000 bichloride solution, will be found to answer well the desired purpose. The pad should receive a fresh wetting every half or three-quarters of an hour; and when bedtime comes, a dry dressing (a pad of iodoform gauze and some absorbent cotton outside of it, with a light head bandage to keep the whole in place) may be substituted for the night. In most cases, irrigation of the excavation in the bone may be entirely dispensed with after the third, fourth, or fifth day, and the wound may be then treated in all re- spects as if it were an ordinary wound on the surface of the body.