421 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. some surgeons that fractures of the humerus close to the elbow should be treated in the straight rather than in the flexed position. This idea has lately been advocated, especially in the case of children and young persons, by Berthomier,1 by Lauenstein,2 and by Nunn." Roberts, in a paper read at the meeting of the American Surgical Association in 1892,4 expressed himself in favor of the straight position, and found fifteen other surgeons who agreed with him by letter in answer to written queries; but sixty-five preferred flexion, and seven “used both.” There can be no question that the angle on which the “ carrying function” depends can be maintained more conveniently and with more certainty with the elbow in extension; but this is not the only object to be sought. When ankylosis does occur, a straight arm is absolutely useless for anything else; I had in December last to excise an elbow to remedy just such a result, in a boy about 14 years old, and Dr. Ashhurst in- forms me that he has twice had the same experience lately. Much de- pends upon the condition of the soft parts; if they are extensively torn, ankylosis in the flexed position, and with the forearm in semipronation, may offer the best, and indeed the only, chance for a useful limb. If on the other hand the muscles and ligamentous structures seem to be intact, or nearly so, and if there is no evidence of inflammatory action within the joint, threatening adhesions, there is no doubt that a good result may be obtained with the elbow either straight or at a very ob- tuse angle. My own experience has led me to trust in extreme care, early and cautious passive motion, and a very guarded prognosis. Fractures of the Elbow. Cheyne 6 has recorded an interesting case in which a boy, aged 13, fell a distance of about ten feet, striking on his elbow; the posterior part of the condyle was chipped off, and the coronoid process was broken into several pieces; these fragments were removed, and the olecranon, which was fractured, was wired, on the fourth day. Four months afterward the wires were removed, as they annoyed him; the movements of the joint were good, and steadily improving. Fractures of the Bones of the Forearm. Tubby, in the paper before referred to, cites two instances of separa- tion of the epiphysis of the olecranon; one in a child 2 years old, who was run over by a cart, and died of pysemia; the other in a boy of 14, from a fall on the elbow, suppurative arthritis ensuing and demanding excision. Very possibly a case reported by Eames,6 that of a child 4 years of age, may have been of the same nature. A case in which fracture of the olecranon was the result of slight muscular action, in a miner who “put out his hand to stop a coal-tub, and felt something give way,” has been recorded by Symes.7 Laver,8 in a case of two months’ standing, the fragments being two 1 Revue de Chirurgie, Avril, 1888. 2 Deutsche med. Zeitung, 19 Apr., 1888. 3 Trans, of the Clinical Society of London, vol. xxv., 1892. 4 Transactions, p. 15. 5 British Med. Journal, March 7, 1891. 6 Ibid., July 16, 1887. 11bid., April 28, 1888. 8 Lancet, Nov. 18, 1882.