290 TUMORS. Fig. 1605. patient continued in good health some years afterward, proving that the glands could not have been affected at the date of operation. He relates five other cases cured without attacking the axilla after the dis- ease had existed over one year, and two similar cases in which the dis- ease had existed for two and three years respectively before operation. Schmidt also relates four cases of one year's duration without glandular involvement, one case of two years’ duration, and two cases of three. From these facts we must conclude that there are many exceptions to the general rule of early infection. Both Gross and Schmidt agree in the statement that the situation of the tumor in the breast does not influence the infection of the glands. As to the frequency of glandular involvement, adding to Gross’s figures the cases of Schmidt, Fink, Dietrich, and Poulsen, we obtain a sum of 2304 cases, of which the glands were involved in sixty-nine per cent, at the time of operation. Retraction of the nipple is one of the most characteristic and reliable symptoms of the presence of malignant disease in the breast, for Gross found it present in fifty-two per cent, of his own 207 cases, whereas among benign mammary tumors he found it buried by the growth (not really retracted) in only five per cent. Metastasis is the rule in the later history of carcinoma of the breast, but it is absent in a large number of cases, death taking place in the latter from exhaustion, sepsis, or other effect of the local growth. Gross found that metastasis was present only in one-lialf of the cases which came to autopsy. Metastasis may occur as early as five months or as late as eight years in the history of the case, about one-quarter of the patients suffering from it within a year, one- quarter in the second year, one-quarter in the third, and the rest after the third year. Gross, in 423 autopsies, found recorded that the liver was involved in forty-nine per cent., the pleura in forty-two, the lung in forty-one (besides nine per cent, in which both lung and pleura were involved), the bones in twenty, the brain in nine, the other breast in eight, the dura mater in six, the kidney in six, and the uterus in five, while many other organs were less frequently affected. The duration of the disease varies of course with the form of growth; but of 117 cases in which no operation was done, the average dui’a- tion of life was 2S.6 months, according to Gross, although Williams, in 34 cases not operated upon, found the duration of life much greater. The same difference appears in the estimates formed by these authors of the duration of life after operation, Gross in 536 cases placing it at 38.5 months, while Williams in thirty cases found the average life to be 60.8 months. Fig. 1605 shows a case of carcinoma of the breast in a man, not operated upon, and of remark- ably slow growth according to the patient’s statement. In an article already referred to I have taken, from such original rec- Carcinoma of Mamma in a Man Sixty Years of Age. Duration of disease twenty years without operative treatment. being 44.8 months.