821 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF PLEURITIC EFFUSIONS. absorb a large amount of fluid which has rested for months within its cavity. Consequently, on the removal of the fluid contents, the long compressed lung is unable to recover its former position in relation to the chest-walls, leaving tissues previously accustomed to pressure now entirely free and in a partial vacuum. With this absence of pressure the conditions are more favorable for the escape of serum from the dis- eased pleura, and reaccumulation rapidly occurs. Many empyemas, too, result from protracted serous collections which have compressed the lung, and the evacuation of which leaves a large pleural cavity which soon becomes infected and purulent. Paracentesis Thoracis.—The operation of paracentesis may be per- formed in a variety of ways. To Bowditch, of Boston, is due the credit of the first evacuation of serous effusions by suction, a method now universally employed by means of the modern aspirator, in which the fluid is received into a previously prepared vacuum. In the absence of suitable apparatus siphonage may be employed, attaching several yards of rubber tubing to a hollow needle or canula. In default of all mechani- ical devices, and in extreme cases, the chest-wall may be opened with a bistoury while the patient lies on his side in a warm bath, the pleura being emptied of its serous contents, and the wound closed, while he is still in the submerged position, thus preventing the entrance of air. For the mere purpose of exploration a large hypodermic syringe may be employed. It must be thoroughly cleansed by boiling and soaking in a strong alkaline solution in order to remove all particles of oil, and the needle should be passed through an alcohol flame to insure the removal and destruction of any septic matters which may have collected within it. It is very easy, by means of repeated punctures, to convert a serous effusion into an empyema. The locality selected will usually depend upon the physical signs; the thinnest part of the chest-wall is preferable, and the seventh or eighth intercostal space, near the mid-axillary line, is the point usually selected. The skin should be thoroughly cleansed, and as carefully as for a cutting operation. A local anaesthetic such as the ether spray may be employed if the patient is very nervous, but is rarely necessary. At the place selected, the skin is drawn either up or down, and the point of the aspirating trocar is then carried close to the upper margin of the rib, leaving on its with- drawal a valvular opening through which there is little danger of air entering. The semi-recumbent is the most convenient posture. Syn- cope, due to the pressure of the effusion, sometimes follows if the pa- tient attempts to lie upon the sound side. A similar result may follow the too rapid withdrawal of the fluid, or the removal of too great a quantity, owing probably to the viscera being unable to accommodate themselves to the altered conditions. The operator should accurately locate the point of proposed puncture, so that the trocar, carefully guarded by the finger, may be carried through the tissues with a firm thrust, thus causing less pain and insuring its passage through the pleura without danger of its penetrating too far, since with a dull trocar, slowly inserted, the costal pleura might be separated from the chest-wall and carried in front of the instrument, which would then fail to reach the cavity. The quantity of fluid to be removed depends upon the conditions of the individual case. No attempt should be made