332 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. of steel. Other operators use a fine jeweller’s broach, selected with care, and No. 5 or No. 7 in size. The use of depilatories is not advis- able, as already mentioned. The following formula is recommended by Duhring: Ijfc Barii sulphidi, 3 ij; Pul\^. zinci oxidi, Pulv. amyli, aii 3iij. This is to be made into a thin paste with water, and applied to the hairy part; after ten or fifteen minutes or as soon as the skin com- mences to feel warm, the paste is washed off and a soothing ointment applied. Anderson uses the following: B Barii sulphatis, 3iss; Zinci oxidi, 3 vi; carmine, gr. i. Water is applied to some of this powder and made into a paste; after remaining in contact with the parts for three minutes it should be washed off. Elephantiasis Arabum. Acromegaly may be regarded as a rare form of elephantiasis; in this variety the bones of the hands, feet, and face become hypertrophied; some of the fibro-cartilages also, as those of the ear and larynx, and all the tissues undergo enlargement and thickening. Treatment of Elephantiasis.—The internal administration of quinine, particularly in marshy localities, should not be omitted. Cases in which the swelling is not extensive, or in which the solid deposits in the tissues have existed for only a short time, will be benefited by massage, which procedure tends to cause absorption. Potassium iodide also has its ad- vocates in the treatment of this affection. The administration, of calcium sulphide in from 3 to 6 grain doses daily, has been followed by good results in lymph scrotum. It is thought that this drug destroys the parasite (filaria) in the blood and lymph channels. Change from a hot to a moderate climate often has a bene- ficial effect in cases in which the hypertrophy lias not become very marked, and renders the prognosis more favorable. While in advanced cases of this disease the prospect is unfavorable as to perfect recovery, a fatal termination is decidedly rare, although in severe cases death may sometimes ensue. Acne Hypertrophica. As effective causes of this disorder may be mentioned dyspepsia, de- bility, nervous prostration, and compression of the vessels at the base of the neck by means of the clothing, tumors, etc., thus interfering with the circulation of the blood and giving rise to dilatation of the veins. Treatment.—The following is the formula for what is known as Kummerfeld’s lotion, which is of great benefit in the treatment of this affection: B Sulph. prsecip., 3 i; Pulv. campliorae, gr. v; Pulv. traga- canth, gr. x; Aq. calcis, Aq. rosarum, aaf^i. This mixture has de- cided astringent properties, and exercises a very beneficial action on the rosaceous condition. Keloid and Hypertrophy of Cicatrices. Electrolysis has been recommended by Hardaway. Multiple punc- tures are made with a needle into and some distance around the growth;