TUMORS. 276 or as multiple small tumors of the cutaneous covering of the chest, the true cancer en cuirasse, has been occasionally observed, and lately cases have been reported in this country by Duhn and Hyde. The former saw the disease in a man forty-nine years of age, the new growth hav- ing at the time lasted seven months without ulceration, beginning near the nipple, and forming a patch on the right side of the body measur- ing six by twelve inches. This peculiar disease must not be mistaken for the much more common diffuse lenticular infection of the skin seen in cases of carcinoma of the breast, in which the nodules may form a single patch by coalescence, or may be scattered over the skin in len- ticular tumors, and in which ulceration is usual. Czerny adds one more case to the rare instances of true epithelioma of the mamma, meaning thereby a deeper form of epithelioma than that known as Paget’s disease of the nipple. His case was in a woman fifty- three years old, who had an ulcer of the areola of ten months’ duration, the nipple being retracted. The breast was removed and found to be healthy, although the supraclavicular glands were involved. Poirier has collected four cases of epithelioma of the breast (or of the skin over it) in the male. One case was cystic, and one subsequently became carcinomatous. In all, the course was more benign than in ordinary carcinoma. Melanotic epithelioma is a rare form of disease, its very existence being denied by excellent authorities. It usually if not always begins in a congenital pigmented nsevus, or mole. These patches in the skin are characterized by the presence of pigment, which may exist in all the layers of the skin or may be confined to any one, either rete or corium remaining uncolored, but even more characteristic is the rich cellular stroma which renders them more liable to sarcomatous than to carcinomatous degeneration. Epithelioma is very unusual; but a few well authenticated cases of melanotic epithelioma are on record, the most recent being those of Bowlby and Solly,1 occurring on the great toe and on the vulva. The subject has also been discussed by Haeckel.2 The case illustrated by Fig. 1602 is, according to Dr. John S. Thacher and other well-known pathologists of New York, one of these rare melano- tic epitheliomata. The patient, 27 years of age, of Irish birth, had a small congenital mole on the skin of the breast, like many others scattered over the body. About three months before she was seen by me this mole began to increase, and attained the size shown in the photograph, for which 1 am indebted to Dr. Robert Abbe, in whose care the patient came subsequently, and by whom she was operated upon. The tumor was flat, consisting merely of the skin increased to three or four times its natural thickness, and was of a black color like graphite (exactly like that shown in the plate of carcinoma melanodes in Hebra’s “ Atlas der Hautkrankheiten”), with an uneven warty surface, not ulcerated, not adherent to the subcutaneous tissues, rather soft to the touch, and presenting a, few fine hairs. A few minute melanotic spots were disseminated in the skin just beyond the edge of the growth. The microscopic examination showed an epitheliomatous structure, with alveoli full of pigmented epithelial cells, which had evidently originated from the deep epithelial cells of the skin, although no cell-nests of flat epithelium were discovered. The results of treatment of carcinoma of the skin, which, as we have seen, is almost exclusively epithelioma, are very good in the face, and 1 Trans. Path. Soc., London, 1891, vol. xli., pp. 314, 315. 2 Archiv f. Gynakologie, Bd. xxxxii., Heft 3.