DISEASES OF BONES. 462 There are two forms of tuberculosis of the bones: one, in which the process is more or less circumscribed or limited by an area of compara- tively compact tissue—the wall of defense which in many cases nature throws up to prevent further invasion of an inimical force; the second, a diffuse form, characterized by irregularity of distribution, often by multiplicity of foci, and always by the absence of any distinct limiting wall. The analogies between tuberculosis of the lungs and tuberculosis of a tissue entirely shut off from the outer air are interesting and strik- ing. Even in bone, it is found that the first stage of tuberculosis is one of increasing density, due probably to irritation; softening almost in- variably occurs as a secondary manifestation, just as in the breaking down of lung tissue. In the stage of hardening there are sometimes found curious points in which the process has gone on to eburnation, Fig. 1620. Fig. 1621. Eburnated Sequestrum of the Condyles of the Femur. (Ollier.) Section of External Condyle of Preceding. (Ollier.) usually at the articular surfaces of bones. A curious illustration of this is seen in Figs. 1620 and 1621. In tuberculosis of the bones, as in that of the lungs, giant cells are found. In both cases the distribution of the affected parts is such as to suggest the formation of infarcts. Konig and Midler have asserted, and reasonably demonstrated, the occurrence of such infarcts; although their belief that tuberculous deposits are generally conical, with the base directed toward the articulating surface, has not been confirmed by other investigators: in fact, the very opposite condition has been found. In the bones, as in the lungs, deposits of tubercle may exist for a long time without giving rise to serious symptoms of disease; they may also become encapsulated, or may be carried away and ap- parently cured by natural processes. The large experience gained at the school of Lyons suggested to Gangolphe an investigation of the spontaneous cure of tuberculosis of the bones; but he was able to see only a few specimens in the dis- secting rooms which suggested this occurrence. In twelve years he saw only two cases in which it seemed probable. He quotes Mau- claire, who found only one example in 1600 cases in which he opened the epiphyses of bones in the subjects of dissection. The usual process in the formation of a focus of tuberculosis in bone,