102 DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. should, therefore, always be put immediately on a water-bed, if possible on one with a central opening, which allows of defecation without the patient being disturbed; the water-bed rests on a stretcher with a cor- responding opening, and the mattress under it is divided into three parts, so that the middle one may be removed for defecation (Volkmann’s Heberahmen). If such an apparatus is not available, we must substi- tute water-pads or rings, or other cushions. But we must always bear in mind that it is a grave mistake, committed very often, to pad the spot where we wish to avoid sloughing. The place where we most expect it must be left bare, and the surrounding parts well padded. Cotton is probably the worst padding material, as it crumples and forms hard lumps. The treatment of existing bed-sores is that usually adopted. If the patient is convalescent, a roborescent treatment, including the use of tonics, has its full value. A long sojourn in the mountains, or in a watering-place not near the sea, often proves beneficial. Pyemia. Pyaemia was, until very recently, supposed to be an intoxication by means of pus, caused, as its name implies, by intrusion of the compo- nents of pus into the blood (tzdov, “pus,” and «!//.«. “blood”). In the correct modern etiological definition of pyaemia, it hardly figures as a disease per se, since it is caused by the same micro-organisms as septi- caemia. The principal anatomical and clinical difference in pyaemia is the development of multiple suppurative foci (metastases) in the vari- ous organs, consequent upon the transportation of the pyaemic poison, and secondly, the intermittent character of the fever. But, as men- tioned in speaking of septicaemia, a strict discrimination between that condition and pyaemia is very often even clinically and anatomically impossible; and it is, therefore, easy to understand that many authors on the subject have totally given up all attempts at differentiation. The same micro-organisms cause both affections, and it is of little impor- tance if the infection leads to suppuration. It is really only a concession to custom, to describe septicaemia and pyaemia separately, instead of in- cluding both under the heading, pyo-septicaemia or septico-pyaemia. Etiology.—-Robert Koch has produced experimentally pyaemia in rabbits, in analogy to the septicaemia of mice mentioned on page 94. It is caused by a specific coccus, different from all others. Gussenbauer believed that he had found in the same way a specific micro-organism for pyaemia in man, but this has proved to be an error. Generally we find the same kinds of micro-organisms as in septicaemia (see p. 93), which proves that it is impossible, as mentioned above, to keep these two diseases etiologically apart. Pyaemia may be caused either by cocci or by bacilli, the former being specially the common cocci of suppuration. Any acute abscess can lead to pyaemia, and it is really hard to explain why only in some excep- tional cases pyaemia does actually result, if we do not assume that in most cases of acute abscess the system of the individual is protected from a generalization of the process by an inflammatory infiltration sur- rounding the focus. I do not believe, as a great many do, that the