DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 516 In practice one can generally dis- tinguish between the two forms, for in the one case a synovial distention passes slowly or rapidly into a fun- gous enlargement, whereas in the cases of bony origin enlargement of the bone, pain, and muscular spasm precede any synovial effusion. No- where can the traumatic origin of tubercular joint disease be more clearly demonstrated than in these cases of beginning tumor albus. Treatment.-—-The treatment of tu- mor albus originated by Thomas and advocated by Barwell, is the one in most common use in American or- thopaedic practice. Partial fixation can be obtained by means of plaster- of-Paris, leather, silicate, or dextrin bandages applied to the leg, and these are the Fig. 1667. Fig. 1668. Plaster-of-Paris Bandage Ap- plied to Knee. Thomas Knee-Splint. meth- ods in use in most general hospitals (Fig. 1667). But they are not suitable for continued use, as they loosen and become dirty, and they furnish in- complete fixation, no matter how care- fully they may be applied. Dr. Judson says with regard to them: It may be an exaggeration, but it conveys the idea, to say that a plaster-of-Paris or silicate splint, applied to the leg and thigh, con- tains a mass of jelly in which the femur is but little restrained from motion.” In addition to this, unless the patient has a high sole upon the other hoot and uses crutches for an indefinite period, the joint is not protected from weight-hear- ing in walking, and this is a matter of prime importance in tumor albus. So that if the stiff bandage is adopted it must be for an indefinitely long time, and the patient should not bear his weight upon the limb. The Thomas knee-splint (Fig. 1668) is a ring of iron fastened at an angle of 15 degrees to two uprights which project below the foot. This ring of iron is padded and fits closely the upper part of the thigh, so that in walking the patient receives perineal, support, practically sit- ting in this ring and bearing no weight