HEKNIA. 880 Before allowing the contents of the hernia to return to the perito- neal cavity, these should be carefully examined as to their condition. As soon as the strangulation is relieved, the wound and exposed intes- tine or omentum should be covered with towels dipped in hot boric-acid or Thiersch's solution, and should be left for from five to ten minutes in order to determine whether the circulation can be re-established or not. The color of strangulated intestine varies from a pinkish-gray to a black, motley color. The contents of a hernial sac should not be re- turned into the abdomen unless the color changes to a healthy red after the strangulation is freely relieved. If, after from five to twenty minutes, the circulation is established, reduction should be effected. In accomplishing this, posture is important, and the intestine should be carefully pushed in between the thumb and finger. Once returned, the inner opening should be stopped with the finger or a plug of steril- ized gauze fastened to a string or holder, so that blood, the contents of the sac, or the irrigating fluid may not run into the peritoneal cavity. Sublimate solution should be discontinued always after the hernia is re- duced, and the boric-acid solution or sterilized warm water used instead. If omentum is contained in the hernia, if it is small in surface, say one inch in breadth and about one inch long, and is unchanged materi- ally, it may be reduced with the intestine; but if the strangulation has existed for some time, or if the omental tissue is indurated and abnormal, and in any way suggests the possibility of infection, it should be withdrawn through the opening until healthy omentum is reached, and through this healthy portion catgut ligatures should be passed and tied, and the part beyond the ligature cut away. In large hernise, where a great deal of omentum has been imprisoned, it is usually the best practice to treat the protruding mass as just described. The stump of the omentum drops back into the peritoneal cavity. If the condition of the patient is such as to warrant a further operation at this time, the operation for radical cure should be immediately performed. In case the intestinal wall is broken down, or is so nearly necrotic that its return into the cavity of the abdomen is attended with danger of rup- ture of the gut and escape of its contents, two alternatives present themselves: to leave the intestine protruding and establish an artifi- cial anus, or to exsect the dead portion and sew the ends together. If the patient is in good condition, and especially if in the prime of life and usefulness, exsection should be done. If, on the other hand, col- lapse is imminent, or if there is anything in the condition of the patient to coiitra-indicate a prolonged operation, a fsecal fistula should be es- tablished, and restoration of the alimentary canal should be postponed for a few days or even weeks. In making a temporary fsecal fistula in a case of strangulated hernia, it is safest to stitch the bowel to the ring before relieving the strangula- tion. If, however, the intestine is very necrotic, the constriction should be relieved and the gut drawn out until healthy tissue is reached, and it should then be sutured. In determining when it is best to perform resection, it should be remembered that the longer the operation is postponed, the more contracted from disuse becomes the end of intestine nearest the anus. Immediate resection of the bowel is performed as follows: Having released the strangulation as above described, both ends of the loop are