272 TUMORS. tumor. We should, therefore, consider these portions, no matter how distinct the alveoli may be, as endotheliomatous rather than adenoma- tous. Besides these various homologous tissues are others which are frankly sarcomatous, either of the round-cell or spindle-cell varieties. These curious tumors have recently been carefully studied by Nasse, and I must refer to his paper for details. While they are chiefly found in the parotid, they occur in the other salivary glands, and also in the tissues of the cheek, lip, tongue, and soft palate, and in the mucous membrane of the mouth. Zahn has recorded a chondro-rhabdomyosar- coma of the thyroid in a foetus. The tumors are noted for their occur- rence in early life—they are probably always of congenital origin al- though commonly first noticed about puberty—and also for their very slow growth in many instances. But sometimes they are distinctly sarcomatous, clinically as well as histologically, and after a period of quiescence will assume a rapid growth and invade the surrounding parts. Usually they are well encapsulated, and cause no symptoms until they attain a large size, which they seldom reach even if left un- touched for a life-time. Endothelioma. There are three sources from which endotheliomata may spring: from the lining of blood-vessels or lymph-vessels (such tumors being often known as angeio-sarcomata), from the lining of lymph spaces in the cellular tissue, and from free serous surfaces in cavities. The last- mentioned form is most common in the pleura, and next in connection with the serous surfaces about the brain. The tumors which form in the skin are, according to Braun, of two forms: mushroom-like in shape, with a smooth surface; or flat and prone to ulceration. In either case they spring from the vessels. The first form is not difficult to recognize by its peculiar shape and firm consistency, while the latter closely resembles rodent ulcer in its appearance and clinical history. But it does not occur so frequently at muco-cutaneous junctions as does epithelioma, it grows very slowly and with less tendency to infiltrate the neighboring tissue than that affection, and it probably never infects the lymphatic glands. Microscopically, it is common to see the endo- thelial cells of the tumor lying close to the epithelial cells of the skin, without any tendency to invade them or alter them in any way. Hya- line degeneration is frequent, and then the tumor has often been known as cylindroma. Snamenski describes two peculiar tumors of the par- otid occurring in women 40 and 76 years of age, of two and eight years’ growth respectively, which were removed and showed a structure of alveoli filled with flat cells resembling epithelium, but probably of en- dothelial origin, as there was a blood-vessel without proper walls in the centre of eacli alveolus, and in many comparatively healthy blood-ves- sels in the neighborhood the endothelium was thickened. These tumors would be called by some angeio-sarcomata. Metastasis appears to be common in endothelioma of the pleura. Endotheliomata have been observed most frequently in the testicle, in the ovary, and in the form of psammoma met with in the optic nerve. I have already described their peculiarities in the mamma. Their rela-