CLUB-FOOT. 547 Tarsectomy, while frequently justifiable, is mutilatory. It does not give as good motion at the ankle joint as can be secured when the astrag- alus remains in place, and when the deformity can be so treated that the foot can be Hexed to a point beyond a right angle with the leg. Many an astragalus which seems hopelessly distorted, and so enlarged that it cannot be brought between the malleoli of the tibia and fibula, yet, with properly applied but strong force may be placed in situ, when in time the walking efforts of the individual will adapt it to proper rela- tions. After all operations the atrophied and weakened muscles must be strengthened by persistent massage, to maintain the foot in the cor- rected position. The incision for a tarsectomy should commence in front of, and below, the external malleolus, extending sufficiently forward to give a good exposure, and avoiding, if possible, the peroneal and extensor tendons. Disarticulation of the astragalus, the preferable operation, is not an easy matter, and the posterior tibial artery is in danger when the oppo- site ligaments are reached. A curved, blunt knife is serviceable. The removal of the astragalus, when insufficient to permit complete rectification, may be followed by excision of the cuboid, or an irregular wedge-shaped excision, as advocated by Davy, may be performed. When a wedge is to be removed, a chisel is preferable to a saw when the articulations are not followed. Both rubber and gauze drainage are advisable until the first dress- ing. The foot should be firmly fixed with gypsum, or other rigid dress- ing, until healing is nearly completed, when gentle passive movements should be instituted to restore the function of the part, and afterward the patient should walk about upon the cast until a proper apparatus is adjusted. Wedge-shaped excisions with either chisel or saw are sometimes necessary in adult cases when the cuboid is especially distorted. In some cases the lines of the articulations are followed, but more com- monly the wedge section is made irrespective of these lines. Such an operation shortens the foot more than an excision of the astragalus, and more than an open incision on the inner side of the arch. (7) Amputation may occasionally be justifiable in cases of extreme deformity occurring in adults. Extension in the Treatment of Club-Foot.—The structural shortening of a foot may often be greatly benefited by the frequent and forcible application of an extension shoe, like that of Adams, described in Mr. Fisher's article,1 or by the use of Shaffer’s apparatus.2 Valgus.—The deformity which is most likely to be overlooked by a careless surgeon is the variety of valgus in which the flexion (or rather hyper-extension) is apparently beyond the right angle. Close observa- tion, however, will show that this is only apparent; that the appear- ance is caused by the undue amount of mobility at the transverse tarsal joint, while the relation of the calcaneum to the tibia and fibula is still faulty. The tendo Achillis is really too short, and each step only tends to bend the foot more and more at the calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo- scaphoid articulations, thus increasing the deformity. 1 Vol. III., p. 686, supra. - Bradford and Lovett, Orthopaedic Surgery, I860, p. 471.