141 ETIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY. common, certain tissues, as bone and glands, being most remarkable in this respect. In some human beings tuberculosis may remain localized for a life-time, and yet, as has been shown in the treatment of lupus by tuberculin, a general predisposition may be created which may cause the patient to lose his life by the invasion of vital organs. Attempts are being made in civilized countries to prevent the spread of tuberculosis; this has been done as the result both of private and of state initiative. While it is, as yet, too early to speak of results, the next ten years must certainly show whether or not we are on the right track. From a purely theoretical standpoint, prophylaxis may be obtained in two distinct ways—first, by preventing the contact of the bacillus with human beings; secondly, by making its contact harmless. As yet we are engaged with the solution of the first method. It has been the object to prevent contact by hunting up the source whence bacilli come, and then removing this source. It is needless to say that much has been insisted upon, in this di- rection, that will be deemed unnecessary in the future. Many sug- gestions have been made that, while perfectly just, are nevertheless absolutely impracticable: to change the breed of cows, to give up drink- ing milk or eating butter, etc., etc. As we know the sources whence tubercle bacilli come, all that seems necessary would be a careful con- trol of these sources; unfortunately, this is an undertaking of enormous magnitude, involving many questions, and not likely to be completed in the present condition of civilization. It involves competent inspection of food, scientific observation of cows supplying milk, and, lastly, the treatment of individuals affected with tuberculosis, as a source of infec- tion. It is unnecessary to dwell upon the latter feature; it wall cer- tainly require much dissemination of knowledge before this can be ac- complished, and when it has been accomplished, let us hope that it will have been done in a manner less cruel and inhuman than seems necessary according to the directions insisted upon by extreme enthusiasts. The sober discussion by learned societies of the question, “Should phthisical patients be allowed to marry?” although not new, shows the trend of modern opinion. At the same time it shows the Utopian plans of these purely theoretical people. When the time comes in which the proper authority can determine the breeding of human beings, the days of physical perfection will be at hand. The other method, that of ren- dering the tubercle bacillus innocuous, would seem more feasible in all directions. The tubercle bacillus is not ubiquitous, but comes from sources rather well known; for the present it seems more practicable to diffuse knowledge in this direction, and to do so is evidently the duty of every practitioner, however humble his station. For scrofula, matters are very much more unsettled than for tuber- culosis. The statement can be made without fear of contradiction that most cases of scrofula are really cases of tuberculosis; this has been proven by investigation both clinical and otherwise, and by the appli- cation of this view to therapy; indeed, many processes in glands and bones, formerly called scrofulous, are now unhesitatingly pronounced tuberculous, and can be proven such by careful examination. But there are a good many patients in regard to whom it would cer- tainly be wrong to speak of tuberculosis; the utmost that would be warrantable would be to say that these have a tendency to tuberculo-