243 LIPOMA. ence between the cutaneous glands and the lipomata would indicate that some sort of law controlled even such erratic growths as these. Sutton has studied the etiology of lipoma from an altogether differ- ent standpoint, coming to the conclusion that any of the soft tissues of the body, normal or pathological, may degenerate into fat, and that this retrograded tissue does in some instances assume an autonomy and grow into a fatty tumor. The subcuta- neous lipomata he places at once out of consideration, by classing them as local hypertrophies, limit- ing himself to what he calls true fatty tu- mors. In support of his theory he advances the following argu- ments: 1. In a case of parosteal lipoma of the clavicle, a large tumor closely attached to the bone, he found between the bone and the growth a thin lay- er of striped muscular tissue, and hence as- sumed that he had to deal with an abnormal muscle which had started to develop from the clavicle, but had atrophied and had become converted into a lipoma. 2. Lipoma, or rather a local accumulation of fat, often forms in the scrotum of castrated animals. 3. Fibrous inflammatory masses may become lipomata, as has been noted in the case of the ureter and Steno’s duct, in both instances calculi having been the cause of the inflammation; and also in growths around the rectum, in cases of syphilitic stricture or uterine disease. 4. Extruded omen- tum in a hernial sac often largely increases in size. 5. In one case a foetus born at the eighth month, with an injury to the back severing the spinal cord and probably dating from the fifth month, when a severe blow bad been received upon the abdomen of the mother, had arrested development of all the parts below the seat of fracture, and a complete fatty metamorphosis of the soft parts, so that there was noth- ing left except skin, bone, and masses of fat. 6. In certain amphibia (frogs and toads), the anterior part of the genital ridge, from which the testicle and ovary are developed, regularly becomes a mass of fat, a true lipoma, bearing no relation in size to the amount of fat elsewhere rig. 1590. Lipoma of Back.