DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 492 found the bacillus of tubercle in about 75 per cent. Experiments have, however, repeatedly shown that pus in which no bacilli can be detected is capable, when inoculated, of producing tuberculosis, so that in the 25 per cent, of cases in which the bacilli could not be identified they were undoubtedly present, as indeed Schlegtendal admits. Inoculation Experiments.—Another and most important link in the chain of evidence that strumous joint disease is really tuberculous, lies in the fact that inoculation with the diseased joint tissue produces general tuberculosis in animals. Tavel, for instance, has used this as a means of diagnosis. On inoculating material from so-called strumous joints he found that in Guinea pigs it invariably produced diffuse tuber- culosis and death in from five to six weeks.1 The experiments of Schuel- ler have become classical. After rendering the animals tuberculous by the injection into their lungs of tubercular tissue, the knee-joints on the right side were damaged and were found afterward to develop a form of fungous joint-disease similar to “ tumor albus.” Mr. Barwell was the chief objector to these experiments, which he did not consider conclusive; but in the light of further experimentation it must be ad- mitted that they established at least as much as Schueller claimed.2 Another most conclusive point is the fact that injection of pure cul- tures of tubercle bacillus into the joints causes a fungous joint-disease of the type known formerly as strumous or scrofulous. Pawlowsky3 found that an intra-articular injection of a pure culture of tubercle bacilli produced a tuberculous synovitis in animals in four days. At the end of three weeks the process had advanced to the stage of gran- ulation tissue and suppuration, and microscopical examination showed the tissues thoroughly infected with the bacilli. The injection of in- organic material into the joints does not cause tuberculosis. The most convincing experiments of all were those of Miiller,4 who produced a typical tuberculosis of bone by the injection of tubercular material into the artery supplying, the tibia. The experiments were made chiefly upon young goats, and the resulting bone lesions were identical with tubercular bone lesions as found in man. In one case where the animal was killed thirteen months after the injection, a typical fungous disease of the knee-joint was found, and bacilli were constantly found in the diseased structures. Cheyne 3 produced a typi- cal synovial tuberculosis which afterward went on to arthritis, in a rabbit, by the injection of tuberculous sputum diluted with distilled water; and tubercular pus put into the femoral artery of a rabbit pro- duced a cheesy mass in the upper part of the tibia, near the epiphysis. The injection of an emulsion of a pure culture of tubercle bacilli into the knee-joints of several rabbits produced in every instance a typical tuberculosis of the joints. Krause in the same way produced tubercu- losis of joints in rabbits by the injection of pure cultures of tubercle bacilli. These experiments show plainly enough that tubercle bacilli are capable of causing typical joint disease of the type that we recognize as tuberculous. 1 Senn, Tuberculosis of Bones and Joints, 1892, p. 13. 2 Hueter, D., Archiv f. Cliirurgie, 1879, Bd. xi., S. 317. 3 Annals of Surgery, vol. x., p. 225. 4 Centralblatt f. Cliirurgie, 1886, S. 233. 6 British Medical Journal, April 11, 1891.