LYMPHOID HYPERTROPHY OF THE VAULT OF THE PHARYNX. 791 aided by some form of local irritation which has been the inciting cause. This local irritation will be found in many of the diseases of childhood and infancy, notably in the exanthemata, and especially measles. It will also be found in certain conditions of the nasal mucous membrane, in which respiration is imperfectly performed through the nose, and in which a subacute catarrhal inflammation of the poste- rior naso-pharynx has resulted. It maybe due likewise to such atmos- pheric conditions as would produce a naso-pharyngeal catarrh in the adult. Sympfipms.—The symptoms of lymphoid hypertrophy of the vault of the pharynx will depend upon the situation of the growth and its toler- ation by the individual; that is, upon whether it has or has not set up a series of secondary phenomena which produced certain symptoms. These may be described as nasal, post-nasal, or aural, and as disturb- ances of the respiratory act. To these must be added the secondary symptoms resulting from a long continuance of the hypertrophy, which produces impairment of the bodily vigor, growth, and nutri- tion. Keflex disturbances of the nervous system, especially those relat- ing to the larynx, must in some cases be considered secondary symptoms of this lymphoid hypertrophy. The predominating nasal symptom is obstruction of the nares. The obstruction may be partial or complete, depending upon the extent of the growth in blocking up the posterior extremity of the nasal canal, and upon the amount of tumefaction of the nasal mucous membrane which may be the result of this obstruc- tion. The imperfect ventilation of the nares in such cases tends to produce a hyperaemia of the whole length of the nasal canal, with an ultimate hyperplasia of the structures known as hypertrophies. The pos- terior obstruction may also produce a further obstruction in the anterior portion of the canal by the contraction or drawing in of the walls of the nose with each attempted inspiration. This, however, is not peculiar to hypertrophied growths, as it may be present in any case of partial occlusion of the posterior end of the nasal canal. A purulent discharge from the nostrils is frequently seen. This originates in the posterior nares and occurs either through the nose or into the naso-pharynx. The patients are usually of a strumous constitution and the discharge re- sults from an acute inflammatory condition. Slight hemorrhages may occur. This is frequently seen at night, when the pillow may be found stained with blood spots. A special deformity of the nose arises in cases of long-continued obstruction. The sides of the nose become flat- tened and pinched. This, with a constantly open mouth and curvature of the upper lip, presents a picture of facial deformity which is pathog- nomonic of the disease. Mouth breathing is always the sequence of long-continued obstruction of the nasal passages. In cases where the amount of obstruction is small, this takes place mostly during sleep, the self-control of the child being sufficient to keep the mouth closed during the day, although the obstruction of the nasal passage is insufficient for respiration. In cases of great obstruction the mouth remains open and the respiration is performed entirely through it. The jiost-nasal symptoms are chiefly the constant discharge of a muco-purulent secretion. Sometimes this exists in great quantities and and it is occasionally found mixed with blood. In older individuals complaint is sometimes made of a feeling of fulness in the upper part of