509 DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. made in the length of the limb. It is doubt- ful, however, if the splint really exerts much lateral traction, and it probably owes its chief efficiency to the fact that it pro- vides better fixation than the simple Davis- Taylor splint. The question of the value of lateral traction is one which is still un- settled. Dr. Phelps attaches very much importance to it, and uses it as a routine mode of treatment. It has not as yet been largely adopted, and it remains for the fu- ture to decide whether it shall form part of Fig. 1660. A Lovett’s Long Splint. Fig. 1658. Fig. 1659. Phelps’s Hip Splint. Fig. 1658 represents the perineal crutch with the abduction bar (1) adjustable by means of the key (6), for the pur- pose of making lateral extension. The steel bar (2)’is adjusted to the steel ring (3), which makes a firm crutch, the pressure coming on the tuberosity of the ischium. Adhesive straps extending to near the body from the ankle furnish means of extension by tightly buckling them to the straps (7, 7), the ring (3) furnishing counter-extension. The rod (5) ending in the upper ring prevents flexion and extension of the legs. The whole splint is intended to prevent every motion at the hip- joint, and at the same time apply extension in a line with the neck of the bone. Fig. 1659 shows the crutch and splint adjusted, the patient using crutches, and standing on a high shoe upon the well leg. the habitual treatment of hip disease or not. The chief point at stake seems to be the em- ployment of strong and persistent traction to separate the joint-surfaces. Another modification of the long traction splint, with the purpose of furnishing better fixation, is that shown in Fig. 1660, in which I have made an attempt to combine the Thomas and the Taylor splint, and which has as its ob- ject to furnish better fixation to the diseased joint while still exerting traction. It is suit- able for use chiefly in hospital practice, in the case of unruly children who cannot be controlled by their parents. Certain more elaborate modi- fications of the long traction splint have been made, but have not secured general acceptance.