34 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. Karyokinesis or Indirect Cell-Division. — When new tissues are formed in the hody, this is always accomplished by a division and mul- tiplication of cells, such division being ushered in by well-defined changes in the nucleus and protoplasm of the cell, mainly in the former. In the quiescent state the nucleus is composed of a fine network of threads, which readily stains and has therefore been called chromatine, and an intermediary substance, which does not stain, called achroma- tine. When karyokinesis, karyomitosis, or indirect cell-division, is about to begin, the nuclear threads and the nucleoli which are distrib- uted in this network become more distinct and increase in size (Fig. 1538). In some of the nuclei the chromatine assumes a more granular appearance (Fig. 1539), and in others again it arranges itself in con- torted filaments (Fig. 1540). In the further course of karyokinesis the threads and filaments become more and more distinct, the nucleolus dis- appears (Fig. 1542), as does also the contour of the nucleus (Figs. 1542, 1543, 1544). The chromatine has now become converted into separate loops, which lie in the equatorial zone of the cell with their angles con- verging toward the centre (Fig. 1545, 1546, 1547). Division in each loop now takes place in such a manner that a pair of similar loops results. About this time delicate threads, arranged in the shape of a spindle, have become visible in the nucleus. The ends of this spindle are called the poles, and the chromatine loops are now lying in the equator of this spindle as just stated (Figs. 1548, 1549; also Figs. 1553, 1554). The loops now begin to separate, moving toward each pole, at the same time individually changing their position, so that their angles are now directed toward the poles and not toward the centre of the cell. The result of this separation is the formation of two sets of loops, containing each about the same number of individual members as the original equatorial zone (Figs. 1549 and 1555). These gradu- ally move toward the poles, assuming more and more the appearance of the original chromatine network, and becoming enveloped by a new nuclear membrane. And thus after its division the network of the nucleus again returns to the quiescent state. During this last stage of karyokinesis a division of the cell-protoplasm commences as a constriction at the equator, and, becoming in time more pronounced, it finally ends in complete separation into two indi- vidual cells. It is very probable that the nucleus is the active agent in indirect seg- mentation, that the properties of the cell are transmitted by it to the new cells, and that the protoplasm is responsible only for the nutrition of the latter and assists in the development of new tissues. But this cannot be asserted otherwise than hypothetically, as our knowledge of the minute changes in the protoplasm itself during karyokinesis is very imperfect. We assume that as the result of a certain activity in the pro- toplasm the formation of a lucid area about the nucleus occurs (Figs. 1543 et seq.), and also that the radiation into the protoplasm itself at the poles is due to a like cause (Figs. 1549, 1553, 1554, 1555). But the explanation of these phenomena is not yet forthcoming. For and against the vital power in protoplasm it has been asserted that frag- ments of infusoria, containing no part of the nucleus, are not capable of reproductive action; and also that such fragments can develop into new individuals, possessed of all the attributes of a living infusorium.