GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE SPINE. 649 en bloc toward the other side, so as thoroughly to expose the whole of the posterior arch, when the laminae are cut away piecemeal with the rongeur. If the presence of blood or pus respectively within the dura is indi- cated by a dark purplish or yellowish color, it will be proper to open into the subdural space, which is best done by picking up the dura in the median line with fine forceps and cutting through it with scissors. This incision may be closed with fine sutures. Gunshot Wounds of the Spine. Further experience has shown that the prognosis under antiseptic treatment is rather better than it was thought to be ten years ago, and even that operative interference is not to be quite so absolutely re- jected. Vincent1 has collected thirty-three cases, many of them of re- cent date, and has carefully reviewed the subject. Bacteriological ex- amination of the bullets of fixed ammunition has shown that they are remarkably free from infective microbes, and the natural inference that the wound inflicted by them would be likely to heal kindly if pro- tected from subsequent infection, has been confirmed by experience. It is no longer deemed essential that a bullet should be removed from a wound in order to avoid suppuration; the necessity for its removal arises from other conditions, such as its mechanical interference with the integrity or the function of important structures. This principle, which has been amply demonstrated in respect of other tissues and organs, has also been proved for bullet-wounds of the vertebral column, and even when the bullet has penetrated to the spinal canal. In a case under my care at the Chambers Street Hospital in ISffO, the patient sur- vived the injury a week, and died apparently of causes not connected with the wound ; the autopsy showed the bullet lodged within the spinal canal at the twelfth dorsal vertebra, but without perforation of the dura, and its track showed only the evidence of advancing repair. The first impact of the bullet had caused a temporary paraplegia, which had disappeared by the second day. In respect to the propriety of operative interference, the statement of Dr. Lidell that “ the operation of resection or trephining the vertebrae is unjustifiable, because it does not offer a reasonable prospect of im- proving the patient's condition in any case, while, on the other hand, there is always reason to fear that it may increase the chances of a fatal termination,” is certainly too sweeping; not only have several patients recovered after such interference, under circumstances which indicated that the operation had favorably influenced the course of the case, but the experience of the last few years in the operative surgery of the spine has shown that the removal of considerable portions of a vertebra, and even of several adjoining vertebrae, may be effected with safety if proper precautions are taken to secure and maintain surgical cleanliness of the wound. The plan of treatment that now seems best for these rare injuries is simple disinfection of the wound by irrigation, in recent cases without important nerve-symptoms, and the use of a protective dressing in the 1 Revue de Cbirurgie, Fevrier, 1892.