TUMORS. 800. a disease which he considers incurable, or at least to slight the exam- ination and diagnosis of the cases in which he suspects its existence. That this state of affairs is improving has also been shown by Win- ter, who says that, whereas in 1883 only 19 per cent, of the cases of uter- ine cancer seen by him were considered to have enough chance of cure to make an operation worth while, in 1891 37 per cent, of the cases were operated upon, and solely because the patients came at an earlier period of the disease. But it requires much further improvement be- fore the results can be made much better. The delay on the part of the physician occurs most often in waiting to have his diagnosis made certain—waiting for evidence of growth in a tumor, or for glands to en- large—before he has the courage to suggest an operation. As a matter of fact, his attitude should be the reverse, and whenever he is not ab- solutely certain that a tumor is innocent, he should recommend opera- tion, or should at least seek the advice of those experienced in such cases. Now that we are able so easily to remove small portions of a growth and have an authoritative opinion upon its structure, a positive diagnosis can usually be made comparatively early, and the physician should remember that the very symptoms for which he waits in order to make a diagnosis are usually such as indicate that the case has already passed the favorable time for treatment; involved glands do not indeed contra-indicate operation, but they show that the disease has probably gone so far that the chances of cure are greatly dimin- ished. The ignorance and timidity of the public will of course always limit our efforts to obtain more favorable conditions for really curative oper- ations, but improvement in this respect is also largely in the hands of the profession, whose power and duty it is to educate their patients, and to show them the importance of having competent advice and prompt treatment for all swellings, tumors, warts, ulcers, and slow-liealing wounds, no matter how painless or trifling they may appear. BIBLIOGRAPHY.1 Abbe, Annals of Surgery, Jan., 1894, p. 58; Ahlfeld, Archiv fur Gynakologie, 1880, Bd. xvi. S. 135; Albarran, Tumeurs de la Vessie, Paris, 1891; Alsberg, Deutsche medicinische Wochenschrift, 1887, No. 46; Arnozan, Dictionnaire encyelopedique des Sciences medicales, “Pancreas;” Ascii, Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, 1889, No. 16. Babes, Ziemssen’s Handbuch der speciellen Pathologie und Therapie (1884), Bd. xiv. ; Baker, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1866, vol. ii. ; Barker, Transactions Pathological Society, London, vol. xxxvii., p. 478 (traumatic cyst of hand) ; Id., Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, London, 1883, vol. lxvi., p. 229; Id., Transactions Clinical Society, London, vol. xxiv., p. 68 (dermoid) ; Bartels, Deutsche Zeitsclirift ftir Chirurgie, 1884, Bd. xx., Heft 1 ; Barth, Deutsche medicinische Wochenschrift. 1892, Bd. xviii., S. 531 ; Baumgarten, Archiv f. pathologische Anatomic, Bd. evii., S. 515; Bayer, Deutsche medicinische Woch- enschrift, 1887, No. 9, Bd. xiii., S. 174; Bazy, Progres medical, Paris, 1886, No. 30; Berg, Archiv f. klinische Chirurgie, Bd. v., S. 190; Berger, Bulletin de la Societe chirurgicale, Paris, t. xi., p. 293; v. Bergmann, Berliner klinische Wochenschrift, 1887, No. 47; Berliner, Dissert., Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1890, S. 309; Bessel Hagen, Archiv f. pathologische Anatomie, Bd. xeix. (sarcoma of jejunum) ; Id., Archiv f. klinische Chirurgie, Bd. xli., S. 444 (multiple osteoma) ; Bidder, Archiv f. pathologische Anatomie, 1890, Bd. cxx., S. 194; Bierfreund, Archiv f. klinische Chirurgie, 1891, Bd. xli., S. 1; Billroth, Wiener klinische Wochenschrift, 1890, No. 48 (transplantation of carcinoma) ; Id., Wiener medicinische 1 The names of some authors referred to in the text have been omitted from this Bibliog- raphy, because the references to their works can easily be found in the papers of more recent writers on the same subjects who are mentioned in the same paragraph.