SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. 877 two sutures, near the pubis, should include a portion of the outer border of the rectus muscle. As the sutures are applied from below upward, care must be taken that the last stitch does not too tightly squeeze the cord. The stitches should take a good bite through all the structures on the inner side of the canal to be closed, but should not go more than a quarter of an inch from the shelving edge of Poupart’s ligament. In Fig. 1729 this part of the operation is illus- trated, with all of the sutures inserted at this stage of the operation excepting one or two at the lower edge. It is seen that the cord makes its exit through the abdominal wall at the upper end of the inguinal canal instead of at the lower end, as formerly. The reflected flaps of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle are still seen. The next step in the operation is to permit the cord to drop into the wound, resting upon the first row of sutures, while the final row of sutures closes the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle over its line as shown in Fig. 1730. An outside row of catgut sutures closes the wound in the skin, and the operation is completed. Under aseptic conditions, it is not advisable to use any drainage. It has been ray practice to close the wound in the skin with a contin- uous suture, hermetically sealing it with sterilized iodoform collodion and putting the ordinary iodoformized and sterilized gauze dressing over all. It is a matter of great importance, for the first four or five days after the operation, to prevent the infiltration of urine into the dressing, or any exposure of the wounded surfaces to infection. The patient should be kept in bed, preferably for six weeks when this is possible, and should not be allowed to turn over from the recumbent posture for from six to ten days. The operation which I now practise, and which gives the greatest pro- portion of cures, is to carry out the procedure of Bassini in regard to the abdominal wound, but to treat the sac after Macewen’s method. The sac should be thoroughly dissected loose from the cord and structures of the canal well beyond the inner surface of the internal ring, freeing with it a small circle of peritoneum from the internal surface of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis muscles (transversalis fascia). Opening the sac and reducing the contents, a large catgut suture in a half- curved Hagedorn needle is carried through the sac at its fundus and tied. This suture is then carried through both walls of the sac a half- inch lower down, and the process is repeated until it passes through the neck of the sac on a level with the inner surface of the abdominal wall, the needle pointing toward the nipple of .that side. The needle is now carried on the index finger as a guide, upward between the parietal peritoneum and the abdominal muscles, and is made to come out through the muscles and skin about one inch above the upper margin of the in- ternal ring. Having again made sure that the contents of the sac have been reduced, traction on this suture throws the sac into a series of folds, and gradually pulls the wrinkled mass beyond the internal ring, where it is secured by warping the free end over a roll of iodoform- ized gauze where it emerges from the skin. Pressure with the finger may be necessary to completely invaginate the folded sac. As before stated, the wound is closed as advised in Bassini’s operation. Treatment op Strangulated Inguinal Hernia.—With the first symptom of strangulation the patient should be placed in the dorsal decubitus, with the foot of the bed elevated at least twelve inches, the pelvis raised upon a pillow, the legs flexed on the thighs and the thighs