RESULTS OF TREATMENT IN CARCINOMA. 297 tively after removal of the first. But true late recurrences are not un- common. Plicque has collected thirteen cases of relapse after an in- terval of three years. Schmidt reports three cases of cancer of the breast relapsing in the fourth year after operation, one in the sixth, and one in the seventh. Fink reports three cases, Hildebrand two, Diet- rich three, and Poulsen eight cases relapsing in three or more years. Partsch reports two cases of cancer of the lip recurring eight and ten years after operation. Fraenkel reported recently a case of a compara- tively young woman, thirty-seven years of age, who had been under con- stant observation for eight years after a high amputation of the cervix uteri for epithelioma, and who finally developed a recurrence in the body of the organ. Then there is the well-known case of laryngectomy done by Hahn, in which the patient remained well for eight years, and then developed another cancer in the scar. In the rectum late recurrence appears to be especially common, cases having been reported by Volk- mann, Konig, Kelsey, Bockel, Arnd, and Lovinsohn, of recurrence at intervals varying from three to eleven years. Cancer of the tongue also appears to offer a bad prognosis in this respect, recurrences after an interval of more than three years being reported from Billroth’s and Yolkmann’s clinics, while Ivocher had the misfortune to see a return in two of his cases ten and twelve years after operation. The same sur- geon saw return of the disease in the scar, after laryngectomy, three years after the operation in four cases, and Billroth and Fischer had a similar experience in one case each. Metastasis has usually been supposed to show itself very soon after the primary operation, but there are some cases on record which go to prove that it also may fail to declare itself for some years. In one of Poulsen’s cases of mammary cancer the patient died of cancer of the stomach over five years after the operation on the breast, and three other patients died with signs of some internal recurrence in from three to six years. Schmidt reports a case of death by cancer of the lungs and liver seven years after removal of the breast, and Dietrich one of cancer of the uterus four years after a similar operation; in neither case was there any local return. Lovinsohn reports a case of cancer of the rectum in which the disease did not return in loco, but in which the patient died four years afterward of metastasis in the liver. The last case is perhaps not so very remarkable, for the liver infection might itself have been secondary to disease in the lymphatic glands, and thus might not have been very much longer in developing than usual. ' Some of the other cases can be explained as the growth of entirely indepen- dent tumors, and I should certainly so interpret the cases of late appear- ance of the disease in the other breast and in the pylorus. But there still remain some cases of recurrence in the lungs and liver which ap- pear to be true late developments of secondary tumors. It is therefore self-evident that the limit of two years set by the ear- lier writers is altogether too short to assure a cure, and it may be questioned whether even the limit of three years can be allowed to stand. It is true that the total number of cases recurring three years and more after the operation is very small, compared with the total number of operations for malignant disease; but it should be remem- bered that the proper basis of comparison is not the number of opera- tions, but the number of patients who have been operated upon and