889 SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. perative in the variety under consideration. Taxis should not be at- tempted until the patient is fully anaesthetized. The preparations for operation are identical with those for inguinal hernia. The most thorough shaving of all the integument near the operative field is essential. When narcosis is complete, the patient should be lifted by the legs in such a way that the thighs wrill be flexed upon the abdomen and the pelvis raised considerably higher than the thorax. While in this position taxis, in a direction at first slightly backward and then upward, should be practised. If reduction is not effected in from five to ten minutes it should be discontinued. The incision should be longitudinal in direction, along the middle of the tumor, with its centre over the femoral ring. The length will vary Fig. 1739. Femoral Hernia. 1, femoral opening; 2, normal position of obturator artery; 3, epigastric artery; 4, abnor- mal and dangerous position of obturator artery arising from the epigastric. with the size of the protrusion, but three or four inches will usually suffice. It should be made by cutting directly down upon the sac, and when this is reached the dissection should be continued between two dissecting forceps. As the sac is punctured a few drops of fluid will escape, and a grooved director may then be inserted, the opening care- fully enlarged until the index finger can be introduced, and this carried upward until the edge of the falciform process is felt and the nail is under the sharp constricting edge of Gimbernat's ligament. At this stage of the operation the hernial sac should be carefully irrigated with a 1— 5000 bichloride solution or with a hot boric-acid solution. The hernia must now be kept between the finger and the femoral vein, with the edge of the nail against Gimbernat’s ligament, iust at its insertion into the os pubis. I have frequently been able, by scratching with the nail and firm pressure with the end of the index finger, to tear or