584 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. dogs, recommended its use in man. Hinterstoisser1 inserted such a plate on the fourth day after the operation, stitching the periosteum over it, and obtained primary union, with disappearance of the brain symptoms. In discussing this case, Fillenbaum referred to two other successful cases, and von Eiselsberg2 has also reported two cases. One of them was entirely successful after 8 months. In the second case, on the fourth day a clot was discovered under the plate; the latter was removed, and after two weeks was reinserted, with a favorable result two months subsequently. Seydl3 filled a gap of 5 by 4 centi- metres by inserting six or eight pieces of bone and periosteum from the patient's tibia. The scalp, or the osteoplastic flap of bone and scalp, separated by Koenig’s method, having been replaced and secured by ordinary inter- rupted sutures, best of silkworm gut, an ample sublimate or sterilized dressing should be applied, as there is apt to be considerable oozing after the operation. The dressing is covered with rubber dam and re- tained in place by a wet gauze bandage, then by an ordinary muslin bandage, and, in the case of children, by a night-cap. As soon as the dressing is moistened to its margin by serous or bloody discharge, the wound should be redressed, and attention should be given to the evacu- ation of any retained fluids. If a drainage-tube has been used it should be removed at the end of 24 or 48 hours, except in cases of abscess or allied conditions, when it must remain for some days. Usually by the fifth or sixth day half the stitches may be removed, and the remainder by the seventh or eighth day. Absolute quietude both of body and mind should be insisted on, especially for the first week. No letters, visitors, or other causes of excitement should be allowed for some time. Al- though less severe restrictions may sometimes be required, yet as a rule this regimen should be enforced for at least two weeks, and occasionally to some extent for months, after such an operation. Secondary Operations.—In these, which are not uncommonly re- quired, the brain, its membranes, and the bone will all be adherent, and must be dissected apart with great care. Some of the brain tissue will of course be torn away, and occasionally more or less decided paresis of the corresponding centres may be produced. After primary removal of a motor centre there is of course entire paralysis of the part supplied by it, and the pressure caused by the blood-clot which accumu- lates after an operation, and by the later cell proliferation, is apt to cause widespread paralysis, sometimes amounting even to hemiplegia. As a rule, after some weeks this disappears to a greater or less extent, leaving the affected muscles, however, somewhat paretic. The same effect may follow a secondary operation, but the paresis or paralysis is apt, I think, to be less pronounced, unless the cerebral traumatism has been extensive. If at either a primary or secondary operation any of the dura has been removed, and especially if there has been also removal of any brain substance, there will be a very marked tendency to proliferation of the cerebral tissue, with risk of the formation of a fungus cerebri. Some years ago4 I suggested that this might be prevented, and the loss 1 Wien. med. Presse, Bd. xxxi., 1890, S. 1670. 2 Central!)], f. Chir., 1891, S. 926. 3 Ibid., 1889, No. 12. 4 Amer. Jour, of the Medical Sciences, Sept., 1891, p. 227.