( 347 ) INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS AND ANEURISM. BY LOUIS McLANE TIFFANY, M.D., PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND, BALTIMORE, MD. Injuries of Blood-Vessels. In the ten years that have elapsed since the article on “Injuries of Blood-Vessels”1 was written, little has been recognized which can in any wise improve upon or modify the masterly exposition of the sub- ject presented by Dr. Lid.ell. His philosophic reasoning and discus- sion remain now, as formerly, in the first rank of surgical writing. In the matter of treatment, however, a revolution has taken place, which has been brought about through the agency of those principles first enunciated by Lister, and now recognized and practised throughout the civilized world. What I shall say, therefore, refers to the effect which the presence or absence of suppuration has to do with wounded vessels. The occurrence of secondary hemorrhage, the methods for its arrest, the methods of arresting primary hemorrhage, in order that such ar- rest shall be definitive, is really nothing more or less than a considera- tion of whether the operator is able to close the wounded vessel in an aseptic way, whence there is to he expected recovery without com- plication. On the other hand, torsion, acupressure, the use of ligatures of one kind or another—metal, animal, or vegetable—constriction by crushing, aerteriversion, cauterization, and the employment of chemi- cal haemostatics, are simply gropings after a method for the arrest of hemorrhage without having suppuration as a necessary sequence—a method which we now are very largely able to understand and prac- tise. The application of an aseptic ligature in an aseptic wound secures defi- nitive closure of the vessel and recovery without complication. The lig- ature to be used for the closure of a vessel is subject somewhat to the fancy of the surgeon, silk and catgut being the preference of most operators. Perhaps as time goes on, silk is more often the choice than catgut; and, if clean, it gives no trouble. It can always be obtained pure, and is not absorbed before the ligated vessel is definitively closed. The same will be said of catgut by those who prefer it. The method, however, of obtaining clean silk is so simple as to be at the disposition of every one. Heat, that absolute destroyer of all life, will render silk sterile, and at the same time not materially impair its strength, so that 1 See vol. II., page 495.