12G HYDROPHOBIA. grounds for a difference of opinion. Yet this designation, being so generally understood in its application to a special form of disease, has been thought by all writers on the subject best suited to convey an adequate idea of it, and hence this nomenclature should be continued. Without a proper understanding of the usual course of hydrophobia, the reader is not prepared to enter upon a consideration of the various phenomena which are developed in the progress of this disorder. It seems therefore proper, in the outset, to present the main features of a typical case reported by M. J. Girode, in the Archives de Physiologie for February 15, 1887. Henry B., an Italian, 28 years old, was received for treatment April 10, 1886. He had been bitten by a small slnt dog two months previously, and the wounded finger had been compressed so as to favor the discharge of blood at the time. The dog died in the course of three days, without taking either food or drink. The patient kept well until the 9th of April, when he awoke with a severe headache. He went to work, and though he took little food at dinner, he continued in ser- vice. He began to feel badly about two o’clock, and when offered a drink of water the glass was pushed away, which act was followed by temporary collapse and impaired consciousness. About three o’clock of the same day he returned to his house, and remained there until four o’clock in the afternoon of the 10th of April, when there were presented headache, sleeplessness with restlessness, delir- ium, some flow of saliva, inability to swallow either liquids or solids, constric- tion of the throat, and marked irritability; he refused to see his friends, who endeavored to control him. Upon his arrival at the hospital, the face was pale, the features animated, the eyes bright and moist, the eyelids widely opened at times, giving an appearance which was terrifying. The patient had entire control of his movements, and his mind was clear, while there was great loquacity; yet in the middle of a sentence he would suddenly stop from spasm of the pharynx. This condition ceased after a few minutes, with expectoration of white, frothy mucus. The pharyngeal spasms returned in from five to ten min- utes, and were more frequent when the patient talked. He was constantly asking for drink, but on attempting to bring the glass to his lips, his head was at once turned away. If the effort was made to force him to drink, he was immediately seized with a violent spasm. The repulsion for solids was equally marked. There was no evidence of pain, when the puncture was made in administering a hypodermic injection of morphine. The patient had no hallucinations, and exhibited no tendency to violence either toward himself or others. The skin was moist; temperature 38.2° C. (100.7° F. ); pulse 116, soft and fluttering. Urine was passed naturally, and contained neither albumin nor sugar. The patient was extremely restless during the night of April 10-11, his rest- lessness not being controlled by morphine and chloral. On the following morn- ing, the sight of persons about him began to terrify him. The skin was still moist; pulse 120; temperature 38.4° C. (101.1° F.). At times he was suffocat- ing from the severity of the pharyngeal spasm, sprang from the bed, and rushed to the window for air. The dysphagia was persistent and complete. The at- tempt was made to introduce fluids through a tube. As soon as a few drops had passed into the month the whole was suddenly expelled by a spasm of extreme violence. No urine had been passed since early morning; stool absent. 3 p.m.—The spasm had become more violent, Avith hallucinations of terror, but no tendency to bite. Temperature 39.6° C. (103.3° F.). Pupils pnnctiform. The administration of chloral and injections of morphine noAV produced no re- lief; but on the contrary the delirium became rapidly more and more marked, so as to require the camisole. 4 p.m.—The agitation Avas noAV terrific, Avith rigidity of the neck and limbs. Had passed no urine since morning. Pulse bounding, 160 beats to the minute.