161 ABSCESSES. Treatment of Chronic Abscess.—Aspiration.—In dealing with large cold abscesses connected with disease of bone, it is often found satisfactory to employ aspiration, as by this means the contents may be removed, the vitality of the skin surrounding the collection be pre- served, and the shock which accompanies the use of an anaesthetic, or the method by free incision, be avoided. As the procedure is one prac- tically unaccompanied by pain, anaesthesia is not required, and the as- piration may be repeated as often as the fluid re-accumulates. The skin surrounding the point at which the aspirating trocar and canula are to be introduced should be washed with soap and water, and with a 1-2000 bichloride of mercury solution, the instruments being placed for a short time before being used in a 1-30.carbolic solution, or in boil- ing water. If the contents of the abscess have been evacuated by means of suction, the canula should be removed and the small puncture closed with a little sterilized cotton fastened to the skin with a scab of iodoform collodion. Incision.—Chronic abscesses may also be treated by free incision, and when this procedure is employed it is most important that every precaution should be taken to render the skin surrounding the abscess cavity aseptic, and after the discharge has escaped the parts should be kept aseptic by the application of suitable dressings. The skin around the abscess having been thoroughly washed with soap and water and a 1-2000 bichloride solution, a free incision is made over the most de- pendent portion, and gradually deepened until the cavity of the abscess is freely exposed. The contents should then be washed out by irrigat- ing the cavity with a 1-2000 warm bichloride or a 1-60 carbolic solu- tion, or, before the use of these solutions, the cavity may be irrigated with peroxide of hydrogen, and the irrigation with carbolic or bichloride solution may subsequently follow. After all discharge has been thor- oughly washed out, one or more sterilized rubber drainage-tubes may be introduced and brought out at different points of the line of incision, being secured by means of safety-pins, or a few strips of iodoform gauze may be introduced to secure drainage in place of the rubber tubes. A piece of protective which has been sterilized by dipping in a 1-2000 bi- chloride solution should next be placed over the wound, and a large bichloride or iodoform gauze dressing, consisting of a number of layers, with several layers of bichloride cotton, should be placed over this, the whole being retained by a gauze bandage. If the dressings become soaked with discharge from the abscess cavity within a few hours, they should be removed and fresh dressings applied in the same man- ner; if the flow is not excessive, the dressings need not be disturbed for several days, and, when they are removed, if the discharge is slight and the cavity of the abscess seems to be aseptic, the drainage tubes mav be withdrawn, an antiseptic dressing being again applied. Free Incision, with Curetting of the Walls of the Abscess-Cavity. —Another method of treating chronic abscess consists, after having rendered the skin covering the abscess perfectly aseptic, in making a free incision in the usual way and allowing the contents to escape, then irrigating the cavity to remove any discharge, and finally curetting its walls thoroughly and again irrigating it with a 1-2000 bichloride solution, or with warm wmter which has been sterilized by- boiling. As this curetting is apt to be followed by quite free hemor- VOL. VII.—11