SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 775 13,090 cases of which 8481 were in women. In Billroth’s clinic only twenty-six per cent, of the cases occurred in males. In women the goitre develops usually about the period of puberty, or during preg- nancy. It may be congenital and develop rapidly at these periods of sexual activity. In the endemic goitre of mountainous regions, affecting animals as well as human beings, the bad quality- of the drinking-water seems to play an important part. Quite recently Lustig1 has proclaimed goitre an infective disease produced by a specific germ found in the water, and claims to have isolated the germ and to have produced goitre in animals by giving them the infected water of the Aosta valley. Symptoms.—'Except for the physical deformity entailed, goitres often produce no marked symptoms. These depend largely upon the struc- ture and situation of the tumor. Small fibrous goitres which closely surround the trachea, extend between the trachea and the oesophagus, or grow beneath the sternum and press upon the vascular and nervous trunks, give rise to more serious phenomena than very large and de- forming goitres which hang as pendulous masses from the neck and cover the chest. Pressure upon the trachea, if unrelieved, may pro- duce death from long continuance of dyspnoea, or from sudden collapse of the windpipe. Sudden deaths have overcome goitrous subjects, particularly often during sleep. According to Rose,2 fatty metamor- phosis and absorption of the cartilaginous rings make a compressible membranous tube of the trachea, which then easily collapses; but, ac- cording to most authorities on goitre, this danger is rare. Dysphagia is not a common symptom. When present, in ordinary-cases, it indi- cates the existence of a retro-tracheal or retro-pharyngeal growth. In malignant goitre, on the other hand, oesophageal stenosis is very often produced. The large vascular and nervous trunks of the neck ordinarily escape compression by lateral displacement. Nevertheless the return of blood through the jugular is at times interfered with, and marked evidences of cerebral congestion are occasionally seen. Compression and irritation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve often in- duce paralysis of the vocal cord with aphonia, violent seizures of cough- ing, and at times very serious asthmatic attacks. The sudden death of goitrous subjects has been charged to the sudden bilateral paralysis of the vocal muscular apparatus. A very interesting complication of goitre is the tachycardia due to irritation of the sympathetic fila- ments contained within the goitre itself. Since in true Basedow’s dis- ease exophthalmos is often absent, the distinction between the surgical Basedow’s3 disease and the former maybe difficult. In 1869 Eulen- berg sought to differentiate the two conditions. As a result of uni- lateral goitre he observed exophthalmos, mydriasis, and elevation of the temperature on the side of the goitre. Stenocardial attacks, psychic phenomena, tremors, insomnia, and epileptic seizures belong to true and not to secondary Graves's disease. The diagnosis of goitre ordinarily presents no difficulty. The posi- tion of the tumor, its lateral mobility imparted to the trachea, and its ascent during deglutition, are sufficiently characteristic. In excep- tional cases, however, the goitre develops in abnormal places from ac- 1 A. Lustig and A. Cade. (Quoted in Giorn. di R. Acad, di Torino, Agosto, 1890, p. 689.) 2 Arch. f. klin. Chir., 1878, Bd. xxii. und xxiii. 3 Gauttier, Lyon Med., 1888, No. 22.