SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 614 no symptoms. In Irvine’s case the girl, aged seven, after a fall on the- back two years before, bad a gradually increasing paresis of the legs with impaired sensation, the cause of which was thought to be spinal. Double internal strabismus and convulsions followed, and she died con- scious two months subsequently. Post-mortem inspection disclosed an abscess containing caseous material and hair, involving both lobes of the cerebellum and extending into flie medulla. The ventricles were distended. Hydatid Cysts.—These are much commoner, especially in regions such as Australia and Germany, in which these parasites are not unfre- quently seen. Thus Escher, of Trieste,1 records the case of a child of eleven who suffered from epilepsy and other symptoms of tumor. By a syringe he established the diagnosis of hydatids, and removed a large cyst, occupying the greater part of the right frontal and parietal regions; but the patient died in a few hours. Yereo2 reports a case in a boy of eleven, with all the symptoms of tumor and a diagnosis of echinococcus. At the operation an enormous cyst was opened and drained. Death followed from meningitis. Castro3 reports a case in which two cysts were found. The patient died from meningitis. Chisholm,1 by means of an aspirating needle and then a Southey’s tube, evacuated about three ounces of the contents of a hydatid, drop by drop. Then by a small incision through a layer of brain susbtance only one-twelfth of an inch thick, a fine rubber tube was introduced, and he, evacuated in half an hour nineteen and a half ounces of the contents in all. The cyst walls were so adherent that they could not be removed. The temperature rose to 106.2° F., and the patient died in twenty-three- hours. Llobet0 records the case of another child, aged thirteen, who suffered from hemiplegia and Jacksonian epilepsy, but whose general good condition led him to expect a hydatid cyst. He removed the cyst, which contained 26 grammes of fluid, without difficulty. Six months afterward, the headache, epileps}7, and hemiplegia had entirely dis- appeared, and, except for faulty memory and imperfect vision, the child was well. Another case of complete recovery is reported by Graham and Clubbe.6 The cyst contained 19 ounces of fluid; the boy’s sight, however, never returned. Davies Thomas 7 refers to 97 cases of cerebral hydatid out of 2000 cases in various parts of the body. Of these 97 cases, two8 and possibly a third ended favorably. In America, Osier3 has collected 61 cases, of which only two were in the brain. The most important recent contribution to the surgery of echinococ- cus of the brain has been published by Mudd, of St. Louis.10 The case was very naturally, from the symptoms detailed, supposed to be one of tumor, probably a sarcoma. The patient was operated on March 20, 1891. The collapsed cyst was removed, with many others of varying sizes. The lateral ventricle also was opened and drained, having been mistaken for an additional cyst. The escape of the ventricular fluid con- tinued for seventeen days, without doing any harm. The excavation. 1 Lancet, June 27, 1891, p. 1444. 2 Centralbl. f. Cbir., 1890, S. 888. 3 Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., Bd. xx.. Heft 1. 4 Brit. Med. Journal, 1892, vol. ii., p. 1296. 5 Rev. deChir., Nov., 1892, p. 970. 6 Australasian Med. Gazette, July, 1890, p. 243. ’ Trans. Intercolonial Med. Congress, First Series. 8 Davain, 1836, and Odile, 1884. 9 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, Oct., 1892. 10 Ibid., April, 1892, p. 412.