SURGICAL TREATMENT OF PLEURITIC EFFUSIONS. 819 behind. The cavity should be thoroughly opened, and, if possible, ex- plored with the finger, and all necrotic tissue should be removed. A long, good-sized drainage tube should be introduced and firmly secured. In the great majority of cases the lung will be found adherent to the chest-wall, thus obliterating the pleura at the point at which the tube is to be inserted. Should no such adhesion exist, Mr. Godlee advises the preliminary introduction of stitches and the fixation of the lung to the external wound. This procedure is not a very easy one, owing to the constant motion of the lung caused by the act of respiration. After the introduction of stitches no attempt should be made to open the cavity for at least a week, and then the manipulation should be gentle, lest the rather delicate adhesions should be torn asunder. If the pleura should become infected from the escape of purulent matter, it should be treated on the same lines as empyema. As a rule, the bleeding is not troublesome, but if severe hemorrhage should occur, the wound should be packed with gauze. After-Treatment.—The cavity should be regularly washed out with a mild antiseptic solution, such as carbolized water or Thiersch’s fluid, and the tube should be retained until all discharge and expectoration have ceased, as serious relapses have followed its too early withdrawal. Rest, liberal diet, and fresh air will all be factors in insuring an early convalescence. Hydatid cysts of the lung, though rare in this country, occasionally demand surgical interference. They usually contain daughter-cysts and often attain considerable size, sometimes reaching the proportions of a child’s head. They are attended with considerable pain, increased by lying upon the affected side, and are accompanied also with dyspnoea. Unless they suppurate, their course is feverless. Careful observation will reveal undue prominence of the chest-wall and widening of the intercostal spaces, and if not too deeply seated, fluctuation may be detected. Hydatids which primarily have begun in the liver may rupture into the pleura and perforate the diaphragm. The diagnosis should be verified by aspiration, but the withdrawal of the cyst con- tents will afford but temporary relief. Injections of iodine may in some cases effect a cure, but the most satisfactory results will be ob- tained by free incision. The steps of the operation are the same as those for the evacuation of abscesses in the lung substance. When the cyst-cavity is reached, Gardner advises the attachment of the cyst- wall to the external wound by means of sutures. Then, with a wound of sufficient size to allow the introduction of one or two fingers by the side of strong catch forceps, the surgeon is able, with a little manipu- lation, to deliver the mother-cyst entire. During this process many of the daughter-cysts may escape and may be washed out afterward. A large drainage-tube should be introduced, and the wound should be treated in the way already described. Surgical Treatment of Pleuritic Effusions. Collections of fluid in the pleural sac are frequently met with as complications of chest injuries, and also as either primary or secondary