URINARY CALCULUS. 926 it a second time. That the sensation given to the searcher by contact with the fibrous walls of the bladder, the brim of the pelvis, a hard ridge on the surface of the bladder, or anything else, should be mistaken for stone, is hardly to be considered possible now when the cystoscope and the washing-bottle and tube give us the means of verifying or dis- proving a doubtful diagnosis. I may mention here for novelty a personal case, namely, that of a young gentleman with encysted prostatic stone, who, after being searched in vain at other hands, had his diagnosis perfected by me with the deep urethral syringe, the point of which, being inserted into the prostatic sinus, was brought into contact with the encysted stone through the instrumentality of pressure upon the prostate through the rectum. Encysted stone within the bladder may of course escape detection by any means excepting the cystoscope and surgical exploration through a cutting operation. Preventive Treatment. Efforts in the direction of discovering a reliable preventive treatment of stone have done little more than accentuate the value of roads already travelled in this direction. The new substance, piperazin, has in my hands proved devoid of value in correcting the uric acid diathesis, and it is doubtful whether we possess any better means of breaking up a stone-forming habit than by correcting digestive errors and improv- ing by exercise and oxygen the performance of the various vital func- tions. The free use of alkaline diluents is not always wise, but the constant simple free dilution of the fluids of the body by such waters as the Bethesda, Poland, Wildungen, and the like, holds as high a place as ever in the preventive treatment of stone. Even less advance, if possible, has been made in the solvent ti’eatment of stone. As far as I know, positively no new claims in this direction have been put forward. Selection of a Mode of Cure. Formerly the conclusion reached by most reputable authorities was, that children should be cut laterally and that adults should be treated by litholapaxy, unless the urethra was strictured or other complications made cutting necessary, and that old men should be submitted to litho- lapaxy if it were in any wray possible mechanically to accomplish the operation. In any of these instances, if the stone were very large, if there were vesical tumor, encysted stone, or certain foreign bodies, or if the stone were too hard to be broken by the lithotrite, suprapubic lithotomy was considered the proper method of treatment. This last conclusion has not been shaken by time, and still holds for all ages, and the same may be said of the second conclusion, that referring to adults. But in the minds of many the first and third conclusions have undergone serious modification, in this, that at the present day the child, even the baby, formerly considered the most appropriate for the knife, now turns out to be the best adapted for the crushing operation, yielding statistics to the lithotrite which are not surpassed or equalled