619 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF EPILEPSY. healthy brain, such momentary faradization produces only a single movement of the part supplied by that portion of the cortex. I have suggested that the production of such a typical fit by momentary faradization might be of value in determining whether a cortical centre which was apparently healthy was really diseased; but I do not know of any observations which bear upon this suggestion. In an asserted Jacksonian epilepsy, the same precautions to ascertain the truth or falsity of the statement must be insisted on as in focal epi- lepsy. Fortunately, in cases of Jacksonian epilepsy, the patient him- self, if he is a careful observer, can aid us very much, since conscious- ness is not lost. In both this form of epilepsy and in focal epilepsy, also, the dynamometer may be of use to us. As soon after the attack as the patient can use the instrument, the grasp of the epileptic hand and of the opposite healthy hand should be compared; the severe spasms exhaust the muscular power of the part involved in the fit; and the re- gistration of the dynamometer should be less on the affected than on the healthy side. Charcot1 and Tourette3 have pointed out also a means of distin- guishing between the effect of partial epilepsy of the genuine type and a hystero-epilepsy, in examination of the urine. The latter author states that, in true epilepsy, there is a decided augmentation, at the moment of the fit, of the fixed residues, specially of the urea and the phosphates; and in hystero-epilepsy a sensible diminution of these. Charcot states that normally the proportion of alkaline phosphates to earthy phosphates is about three to one, and that this proportion is little altered after a fit of genuine epilepsy; although the total amount of urine, of urea, and of both phosphates increases. After an attack of hystero-epilepsy, the earthy phosphates increase to two-thirds of the alkaline phosphates, or even to an equal amount, with a decrease, how- ever, of the total amount of both urea and the phosphates. The surgical treatment of well-marked Jacksonian epilepsy is the same as for focal epilepsy, viz., the early excision of the cerebral centre involved, before the epileptic habit has been formed. The prospects of benefit or of cure are better than in focal epilepsy, especially if the Jack- sonian epilepsy has followed an injury. Though not a few cases, especially those in which the operation was done long after the epilepsy began, have not been benefited, yet so large a number have been bene- fited or cured as to make a resort to operation justifiable. The possi- bility of failure, however, should always be explained to the family and patient. The after-treatment by drugs should also be invariably pur- sued. IV. Traumatic Epilepsy.—AVhile in a few cases the epileptic at- tacks begin within a few weeks of the reception of the injury, as a rule their appearance is delayed for some months or even years. At first the attacks are apt to be infrequent, and are often attended by only a momentary loss of consciousness (petit mal); but afterward become typi- cal epileptic attacks (grand mal). Even slight accidents, in some cases, are followed by epilepsy, probably by reason of a cicatrix in the dura or in the brain. Compound and especially depressed fractures in very many cases irritate the underlying cortex and are followed by epilepsy. 1 Progrfes Med., 15 Novembre, 1890, p. 393. 2 Rev. de Cliirurgie, 1892, p. 413.