621 TREPHINING for headache. fracture or irregularity of the bone, the skull should be opened and the dura also incised, further procedures being regulated by what is found. Any dural scar, brain scar, or diseased brain tissue or cyst should he treated by excision. If adhesions have formed, the proposition of Beach 1 to insert a piece of aseptic gold-foil between the brain and the dura may be adopted, as has been successfully done by Park. If there has been a prior trephining, at the time of the injury, removal of the thickened edges of the opening and of scar tissue, and possibly the in- sertion of gold-foil, will often be followed by great improvement, and in some cases will even effect a cure. Any such operation to be effective, however, must be thorough. The degeneration of the ganglion cells and the hyperplasia of the connective tissue have been shown by Van Gieson to be slow processes; and Sachs has especially insisted on the wide secondary sclerosis in the brain and the epileptic habit following it. Both of these observations render early rather than late operations imperative, if we would really cure our patients. Conclusions.—Perhaps the most difficult of all the diseases with which modern cerebral surgery has interfered, in which to give a fair and reasonable judgment, is epilepsy. The following, however, after con- siderable experience, seem to me to be just conclusions:— By far the vast majority of cases of epilepsy are wholly unsuited for operation, including in this class all those of general epilepsy and a very large number of other cases. In Jacksonian and in focal epilepsy, especially in the former, a considerable number of cases will probably be cured, a not inconsiderable number will be much benefited, and the remainder will be made neither better nor worse. In traumatic epilepsy a larger number will be cured, a larger number benefited than in the last two classes, leaving of course a smaller number unaffected by the operation. In all classes, it can be said that the danger is moderate, provided that the operation be absolutely aseptic in its technique. If simple trephining is done, the risk is very slight. If the brain he involved in the operation, then the danger will be increased in proportion to the de- gi’ee of interference; but the mortality will rarely exceed ten per cent, even then, and will usually be less. Trephining for Headache. Occasionally, headache is of itself a serious ailment. When persist- ent, severe, and unconquerable, it may disable a man entirely from work, and be so serious an impediment to earning a living as to warrant interference. Horsley has advocated trephining for the relief of this condition, and has reported cases in which he has done the operation with excellent results. Warren2 has reported an excellent case in point. Weir has trephined in one traumatic case, in which the head- ache was the only symptom. Relapse followed temporary relief. I 1 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, April 3, 1890. 2 Annals of Surgery, Sept., 1893. p. 259.