PARASITIC DISEASES. 337 in length, and from one-fourth to three-fourths of an inch in diameter. After the hair has been clipped quite short, the stick is heated and ap- plied to the scalp, and after remaining in contact with the scalp until quite cold, it is removed with a rotary motion. Numerous hair-stumps and adhering fungous growth will he found clinging to the stick. Onychomycosis—Favus of the nail {Tinea favosa unguium) is a de- cidedly rare affection; in almost every case the fungus is introduced under the nails by scratching the scalp affected with favus. The treat- ment is tedious. The nail should be rendered quite thin by filing, and a parasiticide should then be used. Removal of the nail and applica- tion of a parasiticide to the affected area is the quickest method of effecting a cure, although this process is decidedly heroic. Tinea Tonsurans.—A good method of treating this affection, based on the fact of the fungus being aerobic, consists in combining a suita- ble parasiticide with collodion. This excludes the air and does not allow the fungus to develop. Thus corrosive sublimate, in the strength of from 4- grain to -1 grains to the ounce of collodion, or salicylic acid ten grains to the ounce, should be applied daily with a camel's-hair brush to and around the patches. At the expiration of one week the crust formed by the collodion should be removed with forceps, when large numbers of hair-stumps will be found adhering to it. This pro- cess is repeated in the same manner at the end of a week. In cases of short duration, occurring among older children, Coster’s paste may be used with advantage. The formula is as follows: R Iodi, 3 ij; Olei picis, 3i (the ingredients should be slowly and carefully mixed). This solution is applied to the patches with a brush. It is advisable to re- move the crusts which form with forceps, as more fungi and diseased hairs stick to the crust when pulled off in this manner than when allowed to drop off themselves. The parts are then rubbed well with sapo viridis and flannel, and the remedy is reapplied. Dr. James Foulis recommends the following treatment: A towel is tied around the child’s head so as to protect the eyes; the hair is cut quite short in the vicin- ity of the lesions, or when a number of lesions exist the entire hair should be clipped. Oil of turpentine is then freely applied to the affected area and rubbed in well with the finger. This removes the scales and dirt, and after a few minutes penetrates quite deeply. The head is then thoroughly washed with 10 per cent, carbolic acid soap and warm water, which relieves the smarting caused by the turpentine. After drying the head well with a towel, several applications of tincture of iodine are made to the affected areas, and after the parts have become dry, the entire scalp is rubbed with carbolized oil (1 to 20), which de- stroys any spores that may exist. Foulis states that this treatment, used every morning, or morning and night in obstinate cases, is fol- lowed by cure in a week. Tinea Versicolor.—Synonyms: Chromophytosis ; Dermatomycosts furfuracea; Mycosis microsporina. German, Kleienflechte. —In Biart’s case1 patches of the disease were found on the left cheek; the forehead was also affected and the scalp slightly; a spot was also dis- 1 Amer. Jour. Cutan, and Yener. Diseases, vol. iii., 1885, p. 43. VOL, VII.—22