INJURIES OF THE BACK. G48 Probably the recognition of a condition of the cord that may be benefited by operation will not often be possible, and the operation, if undertaken, will almost always begin as an exploration, so that in most cases the question that the surgeon has to ask himself is, whether or not an exploration is likely to furnish information the importance of which will outweigh the dangers of the exploration itself. In certain groups of cases this question, according to our present knowledge, must be answered in the negative. In recent cases of fracture by forcible flexion (indirect violence) of the cervical or upper dorsal spine, in which there is paraplegia but little or no displacement, operation seems unjustifiable because of the probability that the cord has. been completely divided or pulpified; and the same argument and conclusion will apply in fractures at any point, effected by great violence and accompanied by marked displacement. In recent cases of fracture by direct violence, cases in which depres- sion of a portion of a posterior arch can be made out or reasonably sus- pected, operation is justifiable, especially if the injury is in the lower dorsal or lumbar region. Other cases in which operation is deemed justifiable are those in which degenerative changes appear promptly and rapidly increase, those in which the cauda equina alone is compressed, those in which it is believed that the cord is compressed between the posterior arch of one vertebra and the body of the adjoining one, and those cases in which after the lapse df eight or ten weeks improvement in function has re- mained wholly absent or lias ceased, bed-sores have formed, and there is incontinence of urine or faeces. In short, in the present state of our knowledge, the immediate risks connected with an exploratory incision into the spinal canal are so small that such an exploration may properly be undertaken when- ever there is a reasonable expectation that it will disclose a condition of the cord that can be relieved. The details of the operation, as described by White, are in the main as follows: The patient lies face downward. An incision, from four to six inches long, is made in the median line along the spinous processes, its centre opposite the seat of the fracture; the muscles on each side are separated from the spines and laminae, and the periosteum is stripped from the latter. Hemorrhage must then be completely stopped by ligatures, clamps, and sponge-pressure. The muscles on each side are drawn aside with sharp retractors, and one or two spinous processes cut away close to their bases with strong forceps. This greatly facili- tates approach to the laminae. The laminae are next cut through as close as possible to the transverse processes with bone forceps, rongeur, saw, chisel, or small trephine, and after removal of the central portion the opening may be enlarged laterally by cutting away the stump with the rongeur. Some surgeons, such as Dr. Abbe, have sought to expedite the opera- tion, and to diminish the amount of bleeding and interference with the solidity of the spine, by making the incision close beside the spinous processes and stripping the muscles away on one side only; then three or four spinous processes are isolated by cutting through the inter- spinous ligaments above and below them, and they are next cut away from the laminae with forceps or rongeur; they can then be retracted