TUMORS. 234 dermoid in origin, compelling the supposition that the fluid came from the sweat glands; Giraldes reports such a cyst situated over the anterior fontanelle. Occasionally other tissues are found in the sac walls, just without the layer of skin, and nearly every tissue of the body has been found represented here, except striped muscle. Bone and cartilage are common, and even ganglionic nerve tissue as well as peripheral nerves have been found. Still rarer are portions represent- ing the glandular structure of the various mucous glands. When these masses of tissue begin to assume the shape of normal organs or ex- tremities, some authors would call the cysts true teratomata, or mon- sters by inclusion, but the transition is a very gradual one, and often the resemblance to normal organs is more fancied than real. The most commonly found organ in these tumors is the mammary gland, and this is readily understood, for morphologically the breast is only a modified sebaceous gland. Baumgarten in one very complicated ovarian cyst found a small cavity with a pigmented lining resembling the choroid, which he interpreted as being an eye, but without the retina, although there was abundant central nerve matter near by. The same cyst had parts representing the mucous membrane and glands of the stomach and intestine, and many other tissues. The ovarian dermoids are the most complicated in structure, the “sequestration” cysts usually representing only the normal skin of the part from which they are de- rived ; Sutton says that he knows of no case in which teeth have oc- curred in cysts of this variety, of course not including among them the odontomata. Lannelongue, however, has reported a dermoid cyst of the cheek which contained teeth. It should be noted that cysts which contain hair among their contents may have none growing upon their walls, just as the scalp may become bald with advancing years. The theory of Remak that dermoids were invariably due to infold- ings of the ectoderm during foetal development, has been successfully applied to an extent of which its author probably never dreamed, and even in the case of dermoids occurring in such organs as the brain, it has proved capable of application. I shall follow Sutton in his classifi- cation of dermoids into sequestration dermoids, tubular dermoids, and ovarian dermoids, although I do not think it expedient to consider to- gether, as he does, the dermoids and the solid teratomata. Sequestration dermoids are those which originate in portions of sur- face epithelium, cut off and persisting in some of the many foldings-in of the ectoderm which take place during the early stages of foetal de- velopment. They may be expected at any place where coalescence of two arches or folds has occurred, as we have seen already in the bran- chial clefts, or in the median line where these arches meet, or where the plates which form the walls of the trunk, the sides of the scrotum, or the cerebro-spinal canal, join in the median line. As a matter of fact, however, dermoids of the trunk are very rare in front, and almost unknown on the back. In front they have been most frequently seen over the sternum, and in spite of the observations of Bramann and others, who found in some cases a fibrous cord running up towards the neck, indicating that they had migrated thence, it is probable that these cysts usually originate in the line of junction between the thoracic plates; in fact, it is from this source that we must derive those der- moids which occur in the anterior mediastinum. Among recorded