282 TUMORS. ultimate results of operations for cancer of the tongue, which have been published during the last few years, covering 473 cases, with a mortality of 54 or 11.4 per cent. From those ^reports which are so particularized as to give the exact kind of operation performed, it is found that the entire tongue was removed in 139 cases with a mortality of 15.8 per cent., and that removal of one-half or less of the tongue was accom- plished in 81 cases without a single death. The removal of the tongue through the mouth, with no preliminary operation except ligature of the linguals, was performed 163 times with a mortality of 12.8 per cent.; and 77 times the organ was extirpated by Kocher’s method, or after resection or division of the lower jaw, with a mortality of 14.1 per cent. This slight difference in mortality should be noted, for it is con- trary to the generally accepted opinion that the so-called simpler method of excision with scissors is much less dangerous than other methods. A fair estimate of the comparative risks of these operations may be formed from Kocher’s cases recently published. From 1872 to 1882 this surgeon operated 29 times with five deaths, and from 1883 to 1888 29 times with only one death, showing what practice will do in improving technique, and very likely also what ex- perience can effect by selecting cases. He removed the tongue through the mouth, without preliminary operation except ligature of the lin- guals, in 18 cases without a death; but when Kocher selects this method of operating, it is because the case is unusually favorable. He oper- ated by his own method in 12 cases with one death (8.3 per cent.), and by division of the jaw, or, in cases requiring it, by partial resection of the jaw, in 22 cases with four deaths (18.1 per cent.). The cases of the last group were very severe, for Kocher seldom operates by division of the jaw unless the disease is so extensive as to require partial removal of the bone, and such cases are obviously very unfavorable. These fig- ures give, it seems to me, a true view of the choice of methods and of the results to be expected from each. Now as to final results, which are known in 186 cases, recurrence took place in 111. Of those without recurrence, 51 were observed for less than three years, 8 for three years, and 16 for four years or more. Adding to these 186 cases the 54 deaths, we have a total of 240 cases with 24 cures at the three-year limit, or 10 per cent., and at the four- year limit 16 cases, or 6.6 per cent. If we deduct from the total the fatal cases, these figures become 13 and 8.6 per cent, respectively. There were two recurrences among Kocher’s cases, at 10 and 12 years after the first operation. Among his operations are included many very severe ones, and Sachs, in studying the effect of this point upon the final result, finds that in 18 cases living one year after the operation it had been severe in 7, of 13 cases living two years it had been severe in 5, in 8 living four years it had been severe in 4, and in 5 living seven years it had been severe in 3. Wolfler had claimed that recurrence took place more tardily in those cases in which the operation had been extensive, but Kocher’s statistics show that in eight such cases recur- rence took place in 5.1 months, while in 14 cases of excision limited to the tongue itself recurrence followed in 8.3 months, which seems more probable, for extensive operations imply extensive disease difficult to eradicate completely. Yet from the figures just given, Kocher ap- pears to have been so successful that more than one-half of his long-