786 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. Fournier relates four cases in which the dyspnoea became so great that the patients were only saved by a prompt performance of tracheotomy, and two others in which death occurred owing to delay in resorting to the operation. Groenow 1 relates two cases in which oedema of the larynx was caused by the same drug. In one case, after a succession of trials, tolerance was established, but in the other even minute doses continued to produce the oedema. I have seen a case of acute angeio- neurotic oedema arising from the use of quinine:— Mrs. J. T., a lady from Texas, was given, for general debility, teaspoonful doses of an elixir of iron, quinine, and strychnine. One-half hour after tak- ing it she experienced a feeling of swelling in the throat, accompanied by a sense of suffocation, with stridulous breathing, which was most distressing. When I saw her, two hours subsequently, she was partially relieved, the stridor had disappeared, and only a sense of fulness remained. On inspection, the pillars of the left side of the palate presented the appearance of an elongated bag of water, swollen, and seeming almost translucent. The right side of the pharynx was normal. The epiglottis was oedematous, as well as the posterior part of the larynx, but in a less degree. The swelling had evidently largely subsided, and in three hours had entirely disappeared. She said that in the preceding year her physician in Texas had given her a dose of quinine for malarial fever, and that she had then had a similar attack. The following is a case illustrative of the chronic form of oedema:— Miss S. has for five years been troubled with a recurrent swelling of the upper lip, which caused a most uncomfortable sensation and interfered with speech. I saw her first in 1894, when she complained of difficulty in breathing. The upper lip was at this time greatly swollen, the tumefaction involving the skin and a limited portion of the mucous membrane. The palate was rigid and infiltrated. The epiglottis was swollen, especially on its under surface, and it largely ob- structed the laryngeal orifice. Two distinct swellings of a pyriform shape were seen over the arytenoid cartilages, closely resembling the pyriform swellings of laryngeal phthisis. The oedema subsided, but recurred several times after expo- sure and fatigue. Solid or Septic CEdema of the Larynx; Influenza (Edema.— This condition was first described by myself in notes read before the Medico-Chirurgical Society of St. Louis in 1886, and was fully described in a paper read before the American Laryngological Society at its eleventh annual congress, in 1889 (Septic CEdema of the Air-Passages). My observations were confirmed in a paper read by Dr. J. Solis Cohen at the succeeding congress in 1891 (The Symptoms and the Patholog- ical Changes in the Upper Air-Passages in Influenza), and the condi- tion has also been observed by Carl Seiler, De Lostalat, and Bavacki. Septic or solid oedema is closely connected with the epidemic of in- fluenza or grippe which has been prevailing during the past years. The cases seen from the year 1886 to the year 1890 may strictly be re- garded as sporadic cases, and may be considered as illustrating one of the protean forms of this disease. Septic oedema, or lymphoid oedema as it has been called by J. Solis Cohen, is the result of an infiltration of the mucous membrane and connective tissue of the air-tract by a cellular material, with a stasis of the venous and lymphatic systems. The local condition of the upper air-passages is secondary to and char- 1 The Practitioner, .June, 1890.