INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 776 cessory portions of the gland, or by its weight is drawn away from its original position, and retro-pharyngeal and retro-tracheal goitres are often difficult of diagnosis. Movable goitres, described by Wolffler, may sink or by aspiration be drawn into the mediastinum, behind the sternum or clavicle. Retro-sternal goitres may exist with or indepen- dently of a tumor of the normal gland. An accessory goitre may be « mistaken for an enlargement of a cervical lymphatic gland, for a san- guineous cyst, or if situated in the median line for a ganglion. Owing to its inherent vascularity, or to its relation to the large blood-vessels, a thyroid tumor must sometimes be differentiated from an aneurism. A study of its relations, the mobility of the tumor, and the character of the pulsation, will exclude the possibility of error. Treatment.—The internal therapy of goitre is restricted to the use of the preparations of iodine and of ergot. In very vascular tumors the internal use or interstitial injection of ergot has a beneficial influence in restricting the development and reducing the size of the growth. In parenchymatous goitres uniformly affecting the gland, of rapid growth and of recent date, iodine internally administered often pro- duces rapid diminution of the tumor, and even in recent cases may cause its total dissipation. The external application of iodine and of ice-poultices, when long continued, appears to hasten the absorption of recent hypertrophic goitres. In the colloid and cystic goitres of older date, internal medication and embrocations are altogether useless. In the nodular form of goitre parenchymatous injections of iodine, iodo- form, or alcohol, are frequently followed by induration and rapid di- minution in size. Not more than from five to ten drops of alcohol or tincture of iodine are to be used for each injection. Of a solution of iodoform in ether and olive oil (1-7-7), Mosetig Moorhof injects from 15 minims to 1 drachm. Intra-thyroid injections necessitate certain precautions. The syringe should be sterilized and the needle strong. The patient being in the recumbent position, the tumor is seized and well fixed with the left hand, while, carefully avoiding superficial veins, the needle is driven to its hilt into the growth. The injection must be slowly made, to avoid the asphyxia or syncope which would certainly follow the injection of the entire dose should a vein perchance have been punctured. To avoid this possibility very careful operators first puncture the tumor with the needle of an empty syringe and aspirate the growth, the filling of the syringe with blood showing that a vessel has been entered, and necessitating a change in the position of the needle. If no blood enters, the barrel of the syringe is charged and the injection is completed. Injections into the thyroid are not gener- ally painful, though momentary pains in the jaw, or under the ear, and a metallic taste are often experienced. The injections produce tempo- rary increase in the size of the gland, but this reactionary swelling is rapidly followed by induration and diminution. The injections are to be repeated at intervals of from twro to five daj's. That parenchymatous injections are not devoid of danger has often been shown. The methods of aseptic surgery and haemostasis having removed the chief danger from capital operations, intra-glandular injections are not now so much resorted to as even a decade ago. More radical operative procedures have supplanted them. Neverthe- less, the mere existence of a goitrous tumor does not justify an opera-