598 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. lobe, which is, as I have shown,1 downward, forward, and inward, in- the direction of the opposite wing of the nose. If this puncture is futile several other punctures may be made in suitable directions, as multiple punctures do but little damage, and, compared with that caused by an abscess, none whatever. When the abscess is found, the cavity should be treated as already described. It is always well in these cases to explore the opening for the mastoid vein (Fig. 1689, i), which lies about an inch back of the mastoid process. If pus is found oozing from this opening, as the vein empties into the lateral sinus, it is certain that there is pus in the groove for the lateral sinus, and the latter should then be well exposed by the rongeur, gouge, and chisel. The treatment of the sinus is described below. (5) Cerebellar Abscess.-—-The differential diagnosis of cerebellar abscess has already been given. The general diagnosis is very much the same as that for cerebral abscess, saving that choked disc is very rarely present and that the temperature is apt to be high from compli- cations. If present, the abscess is apt to be situated in the anterior part of the lateral lobes, where they are in contact with the petrous bone and the groove for the lateral sinus. Treatment.—The cerebellum may be reached at a point midway be- tween the mastoid and the inion, and sufficiently far below the line from the meatus to the inion, which corresponds to the lateral sinus, to avoid wounding the sinus. (Fig. 1689, o and x.) A semilunar in- cision should be made with convexity upward, the occipital bone exposed at the selected point, and then either trephined or opened by means of the chisel, which is preferable both from the irregularity as well as from the lessened thickness of the bone. In children a simple gouge will penetrate the skull very readily and the rongeur will enlarge the opening at will. If the cerebellum bulges and pulsation is wanting, it is almost certain that an abscess is present. Not only the lobe of the same side on which the opening is made can be reached by the grooved director, but the opposite lobe can be explored by an oblique puncture. Care should be taken not to injure the superior vermiform process. (6) Thrombosis of the Lateral Sinus.—One of the most brilliant chapters relating to the cerebral complications of ear disease is the modern treatment of thrombosis of the lateral sinus. It is only since 1884 that this condition has been diagnosticated during life and treated with success. The frequency and the danger of the disorder can be appreciated from the statement that Mr. Ballance estimates that in London alone there is from this cause one death a week, and that Pitt2 says that in 20 years at Guy’s Hospital, in of autopsies of those dying from ear disease, 22 showed thrombosis of the lateral sinus, in more than half it was sup- purating, and in 11 cases the thrombus extended into the jugular vein. In all of these pulmonary infection existed. In 4 cases the thrombus extended into the longitudinal, and in 3 into the opposite lateral, sinus. The proximity of the lateral sinus to the mastoid and the thin layer of bone separating it from the mastoid cells and antrum have already been, alluded to. (Figs. 1685, 1686, p. 590.) Symptoms and Diagnosis.—As in other complications of aural dis- 1 Buck’s Reference Handbook Med. Sciences, vol. viii., p. 216. 5 Brit. Med. Journal, 1890, vol. i., p. 643.