DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. 76 description of erysipelatous affections originating from slight lesions, and destroying the skin in a great measure by gangrene. Diodorus and Thucydides, who was himself attacked by the disease, described excel- lently the “Attic plague,” 430-425 b.c. Galen related the plague of Antoninus, 165-180 a.d., which raged from Persia to the Rhine, a great deal of which surely was malignant erysipelas. Afterward, in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, it seems that the definition and the limits of the disease were not as clearly understood, and it is well-nigh impossible to distinguish erysipelas from the many other diseases with which it was confounded. The prominent leeches of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries believed with Galen and his pupils, that the gene- sis of erysipelas was accomplished through the agency of the bile (bilious erysipelas). Choleric and full-blooded individuals were specially susceptible; some physicians differentiated two forms of the disease, one in connection with the bile, “biliary blood,” which offered a better prognosis than the other, which was observed at times “ when an en- venomed air prevailed.” This “mixtum compositum” grew worse and worse till the beginning of the present century, when the reports of epidemic erysipelas were of more value. Those outbreaks which occurred in all forms, from the mildest to the most malignant types, from 1830 to 1860, at different places in Europe—Scotland, Denmark, Germany—and in North Amer- ica,1 are specially interesting. European, and especially German, litera- ture, which treats of other epidemics very fully, seems to have taken very little notice of those in the United States. Among the reports of American physicians, those of Drake, Peebles, Shipman, G. Sutton, Charles Hall, G. Dexter, and others, deserve our special attention. We find the first traces of this pandemic, especially of the so-called typhoid erysipelas, in Canada, in 1841, whence the affection spread over the whole territory of the United States, especially toward the southwest. The intensity and extent of this so-called typhoid erysipelas varied very much. Sometimes the disease occurred more or less generally at a place, while at other times the cases were only sporadic, or were restricted to hospitals. Drake, in his excellent treatise,2 describes the course of the epidemic thus: After having started in the winter of 1826 in Burlington, Vt., in 1832 in Ogdensburg, N. Y., in the spring of 1833 and winter of 1836 in St. Clairsville, the general outbreak of the great scourge occurred in 1841, when the affection first manifested itself in Canada. Thence it came in the following year to New York and Vermont, and at the same time to Indiana. The winter of 1842-1843 brought it to Missouri and Ohio, and in the winter of 1843-1844 the epidemic reached its height and largest distribution in Canada, Wis- consin, New York, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Missis- sippi, while the following spring showed only Missouri, Alabama, Tennes- see, and New York infected. In the latter states the epidemic slowly died out until 1849, so that in the winter of 1849-50 we find reports only from Vicksburg, New Orleans, and a few other places. The spread of the disease was from northeast to southwest, through fifteen degrees 1 It may be said here that the first epidemic of erysipelas in the United States did not oc- cur in 1843, as is generally believed, but that the epidemic of smallpox of 1699 was accom- panied by erysipelas, as Haser, in his history of epidemic diseases, abundantly proves. 2 Principal Diseases of the Interior Valley of North America.