3G6 INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. Traumatic Lymph Fistulje.—These occur chiefly in the neighbor- hood of joints, as at the fold of the elbow, on the inner side of the thigh, near the ankle in front of the malleoli, and in the neck. Wounds are more apt to be followed by fistulie when pre-existing lymphatic dila- tation is present. S. Georgjovic, analyzing 28 cases of wounds of lym- phatic trunks, found that 5 involved the thoracic duct, G followed bleeding, 2 resulted from opening buboes, 9 followed incisions or punctures, while the remaining 6 were caused by the opening of ab- scesses or the removal of tumors. Treatment.—Antiseptic tamponnade, or digital pressure, suffices for recent cases. Leudesdorf obtained a success by maintaining digital compression for eight hours. When failure follows compression applied chiefly below the fistula—as is commonly recommended—direct pressure over the fistulous opening should be tried, remembering, however, that in some cases this method produces retention of lymph, oedema, and repeated abscesses. In old cases the use of iodine, caustics, or the hot iron, to destroy the indurated margins of the fistula, may have to pre- cede and supplement pressure. Rupture of the Thoracic Duct.—Divesting the report of all de- tails not pertinent to our present purposes, the following is a typical case of the fatal result which too often follows from this accident, while it proves the correctness of Mr. Bellamy’s statement that death is often postponed for a long time:— A man, aged 28, had his thorax violently compressed. On the seventeenth day a fluctuating swelling was detected in the inguinal region, which gave vent, upon incision, to offensive gas and a faecal-like fluid; but in a few days all odor ceased, and the discharge became milky in appearance. Such rapid emaciation ensued (four pounds daily), that twenty-two days subsequently—that is, on the 38th day from the accident—the man died of inanition. After death it was found [the point of interest for my present purposes] that a cavity, formed by dissecting up the right pleura posteriorly, extended from the apex of the thorax to the dia- phragm, and contained a similar milky fluid to that which had escaped from the fistula during life; an opening was detected in the thoracic duct where it passed through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, thus explaining the two routes pursued by the chylous extravasation.1 Of the seventeen cases in Kirchner’s list, the cause of injury was twice contusion of the chest; once each, puncture, incision, and shot- wound ; thrice ulceration following supjiuration, while in the remaining nine the cause was not made clear. Chylotliorax resulted in nine cases, chylous ascites in six, one was a doubtful instance of mediastinal extra- vasation, and the remaining one was due to an operation wound inflicted near the terminal portion of the duct. Symptoms.—These depend upon the location and extent of the extra- vasation ; thus a patient of Krabbel's died on the 5tli day from compres- sion of the lung by an extensive chylotliorax; one of Kirchner’s patients developed an increasing dyspnoea from a pleural effusion, which upon aspiration proved to be chyle, improvement, followed by recovery, taking place. Rapid emaciation and death from inanition must sooner or later supervene unless the opening becomes occluded, or unless a double duct, or a variation in the method of formation of the duct, admits of a 1 Alvin Eyer, Med. Record, Aug. 1, 1891.