823 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF PLEURITIC EFFUSIONS. side with the hips well elevated and the head low—a continuous stream of pus flowed from the mouth for almost a minute. Death in empyema may also result from septic absorption or from amyloid degeneration. Sometimes, in children, where the lung has been long compressed, the rather yielding chest-walls will fall in after evacuation of the fluid, encroaching upon the lung and occluding the pleural space, causing a lateral spinal curvature on the affected side with compensating curves above and below. It occasionally happens that the cavity will be occluded by the adhesion of the two pleural sur- faces. The unyielding upper chest-walls, however, often fail entirely to contract, leaving a sinus which keeps on discharging a small amount of pus, with little or no inconvenience to the patient, though the pro- longed drain in time may tell upon the general health and lead to amy- loid degeneration. Preparatory to the operation for draining an empyema the patient should be in the recumbent position, and as nearly as possible flat on the back. It is more convenient for the surgeon if the patient be rolled over on the sound side, but such a position is apt to embarrass the breathing, especially when the patient is under the influence of an anaesthetic. Chloroform is preferable to ether for these cases, as it induces much less bronchial secretion. The site of incision must be in- fluenced by the physical signs afforded by the collection of matter within the pleural sac. If pus is actually pointing, or if an old sinus exists, that spot should be selected, and, if necessary, a secondary opening may be made elsewhere to insure complete drainage. The usual site, how- ever, is the seventh or eighth interspace in the mid-axillary line in front of the latissimus dorsi muscle. If for any reason a more anterior open- ing should be decided upon, the fifth or sixth interspace posterior to the costal cartilage may be selected, the chest-walls being thinner here than elsewhere. It is well to raise the arm up to a right angle, as its movement displaces the skin, and the incision should then be made so far above the spot selected that when the arm is brought to the side a direct opening into the thorax will be made, and not a valvular one, the skin wound and the deeper wound corresponding. An incision from one and one-half to three inches in length should be made trans- versely over the upper margin of the rib, down to the intercostal mus- cles ; then with a firm steel director an opening is made into the cavity beyond. This opening may then be enlarged with the finger or with a pair of sinus forceps. In ordinary cases a drainage-tube as large as the space will admit should be inserted. If for any cause it is found that a second opening is advisable, a steel vesical sound may be introduced through the opening, and its beak made to project at the desired inter- space, where it is easily cut down upon with a knife. If two openings are made, the tube (which should be flexible and not too rigid) may be attached to a curved probe, carried through one opening and out of the other, and retained with two safety pins. In this way there is little risk of the tube slipping into the chest or being removed with the dress- ing, which should be of some absorbing material, such as cotton or oakum, in large loose folds, covered with rubber tissue or wax paper, and retained by the turns of a broad bandage. The dressing should be changed frequently. If from any cause the intercostal artery should be wounded, it should be completely severed and allowed to retract into