TUMORS. 230 A recent paper by Dowd collects many cases of such changes, espe- cially those in fibrous tumors of the breast, following a paper by Hall which reported many instances in which tumors of malignant structure had been in existence for a long time. One of Hall’s cases I knew of personally:— A young woman of 21 had had a tumor of the neck, with all the char- acteristics of an ordinary hypertrophied lymphatic gland, for five or six years. This was removed in 1884 because a brother of the patient had recently died of a malignant tumor of the pharynx, and she felt nervous about it. Hall considered the growth to be a myxo-sarcoma. The patient to my knowledge is still alive, without recurrence, ten years after that operation. Hall had another case of this sort, and Dowd also reports one under the care of Hartley. Five years ago I removed a breast from a woman 39 years of age, who had first noticed a mass the size of a bean four months before, with pain in the breast and arm. The breast was found to contain several sensitive, movable nodules, not adherent to the skin, and with no retraction of the nipple; the most prominent of the nodules was about half an inch in diameter, lying directly under the skin, and feeling like a very tense cyst. Exploratory incision revealed a very dense tissue, almost as hard asscirrhus, surrounding a small cyst, with enlarged glands in the axilla which could not be felt through the skin; besides removing the entire breast, the axilla was cleared. Microscopic examination by Freeborn showed chronic mastitis with simple hypertrophy of the lymphatic glands, but in the vicinity of the cyst described above there was a distinct nucleus of com- mencing carcinoma. This patient has remained well. Yemenil reports two cases of mammary neoplasm which were either instances of carcinoma running a chronic course, or of a change from a benign to a malig- nant growth. In one, a tumor of long duration, supposed to be benign, proved to be carcinomatous when examined. The other was a case of multiple tumors supposed to be cysts; a similar tumor which had been removed three years before had been proven by examination to be an adenoma, but these tumors turned out to be scirrhous. Reverdin relates a case of tumor of the breast of five years’ duration and slow growth, in which ulceration and fungus developed, and examination on removal showed the growth to be a sarcoma. Labbe and Coyne relate the histories of four cases similar to this. Billroth relates the case of a woman, 40 years old, from whose breast he ex- tirpated a cysto-adeno-sarcoma after three years’ growth. A small nodule near the tumor showed beginning carcinoma, and there was an early recurrence of pure carcinoma. Pilliet has reported two cases in which cystic disease of the breast (Reclus) was followed by carcinoma. Pompiniel relates the history of a woman 50 years of age, who had'had a small hard tumor in the breast for twenty-one years. ‘ An ovarian epithelioma was removed, and three months afterwards the mammary tumor began to grow and to give pain; when it was removed a year subsequently, it was found to be an epithelioma, and it recurred twice within two years. Epitheliomata from ulcerating and suppurating sebaceous cysts are not uncommon. I have seen one during the last year, and Dowd reports a case. Franke reports one in the ball of the thumb, and Shattuck and Hutchinson have each seen one. Poulsen records a case in which a mammary carcinoma developed from a nsevus in a man. I have already mentioned the instances in which epithelioma has de-