TUMORS OF THE CHEST. 815 interferes with respiration, the air may be permitted to escape by a number of small punctures in the skin. All penetrating wounds of the chest are liable to be followed by pleurisy, and if the lung be implicated, by pneumonia. These trau- matic inflammations are also common after fractures of the ribs and severe contusions, but. as a rule, are self-limited and tend to sponta- neous cure. If foreign matter finds access to the lung, as in gunshot or other large wounds, decomposition may be excited, causing intense inflammation and abscess, which may open into the bronchi, or into the external wound. The physical signs, when they are not masked by pleuritic effusion or thickening, are similar to those of ordinary croupous pneumonia, and the prognosis depends largely upon the amount of lung involved and the general condition of the patient. In fractures of the ribs and severe contusions, blood and serum are often poured into the pleural sac, causing licemothorax or hydrothorax, and subsequently, by the entrance of air or other foreign substance, the effused material may become purulent, causing pyothorax or empy- ema. When this occurs, the suppuration may be ushered in by a violent chill and high fever, or may come on slowly, the effusion gradually increasing and becoming more and more purulent, as when empyema succeeds a serous pleurisy. When an intrathoracic effusion becomes purulent, the first thing to be done is to insure perfect drainage, so that the pus may not be pent up and become decomposed. The serous effu- sion which accompanies simple fracture, when not absorbed, may readily be removed by aspiration. If from the presence of blood-clots or other causes the contents of the pleural sac cannot be evacuated by the aspi- rator, the cavity must be drained. If this be done before the pleura has had time to thicken and contract, the lung will expand and become adherent to the chest-walls. Tumors of the Chest. Parietal Tumors.—Tumors unconnected with the circulatory sys- tem are occasionally met with involving some portion of the thoracic wall. Of these the most common are exostoses or enchondromata, springing from the ribs or costal cartilages. They may be pedunculated in shape and may attain considerable size. Mediastinal Tumors.—Malignant growths in the thorax are, as a rule, found involving the mediastinal spaces, usually assuming the character of a carcinoma or of a sarcoma. From a large number of cases collected and carefully analyzed by Hare, carcinoma appears to be the growth most frequently met with. Malignant growths in this region have certain peculiarities in their development, viz. : not select- ing any one or two tissues, but invading whatever comes in their path, following the course of least resistance, and invading the heart, peri- cardium, and great vessels; nerve filaments become affected, as mani- fested by various functional derangements which soon end in death, es- pecially when the pneumogastric nerve becomes involved. The oesoph- agus and trachea are frequently perforated by pressure or become involved in the disease. The diaphragm may be pressed down, caus-