971 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. tract. Slitting up the prepuce is according to Dr. Palmer, of Louis- ville, often preferable in children to circumcision. The unsightly flaps formed on either side, which are so objectionable in the adult, speedily disappear in the child. In circumcising a child, it is an extremely bad plan to fix the forceps at the level of the corona and then slide it forward and cut off the projecting skin; it removes too much of the skin covering, and on removal of the forceps almost the whole organ will at times he found to be flayed. The following method is advised: If forceps are used, let them be placed near the anterior extremity of the head of the penis, and certainly not farther back than midway to the corona glan- dis. This much having been cut away, the mucous membrane beneath is to be loosened from the glans and slit up nearly but not quite to the corona, in a line parallel to which it is then to be removed on either side with scissors, and at a sufficient distance to allow just enough space for the proper insertion of the sutures. On nearing the frsenum the incisions should slope forward, and the mucous membrane at this point should not be cut transversely from one side directly to the other, lest there should be difficulty in properly uniting the raw edges. A continuous suture of catgut is then inserted, beginning at the fraenum on one side and being carried all around. Any bleeding points are to be controlled by being included in the suture. A little cotton and col- lodion constitutes the dressing, or some boric-acid ointment may be smeared on, or iodoform applied, and a pad of cotton laid over it and retained by the diaper. In adults the procedure is much the same. Simple slitting up is not desirable, but should be completed by carefully rounding off the pro- jecting flaps of tissue. The cases in which I have used the continuous catgut stuture have proven so much more satisfactory than those in which the interrupted suture has been used, that I prefer it in most instances. Care should be taken to avoid a bare spot at the neighbor- hood of the frsenum in adults as well as in children. Mr. Davies-Colley 1 advises that when forceps are used they should be removed when half of the skin is divided, and that the remainder of the section should be completed with scissors, sloping the cut forward so as to leave the skin longer on the under side. The use of Ricord’s phimosis forceps is only of slight service, and that principally in adults. The operation may be done under cocaine by injecting a small amount of a one-per-cent, solution in the region of the incision. If any venereal disease of the parts is suspected they should be thor- oughly cleansed, and any abrasions on the fingers of the surgeon should be protected by collodion. Jacobson2 has seen two cases of syphilis contracted by physicians in the reduction of paraphimosis. Horny Growths of the Penis.—The penis in the neighborhood of the glans is not only affected with ordinary vegetations and warts, but also in rare cases with true horny growths. Dr. J. H. Brinton 3 gives the details of such a case. The horn occurred in a man aged sixty-two, and grew from a wart. It was one and seven-eighth inches in length and was attached to both glans and prepuce. Fifteen cases including 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1892, p. 163. 2 Op. cit., p. 643. 8 Medical News, 1887, vol. li., p. 141.