878 HERNIA. on the abdomen, so that the intestines and omentum will gravitate to- ward the diaphragm; or the knee-shoulder position may he assumed. Towels dipped in hot water and partially squeezed out should be laid upon the tumor. The question of administering morphine should be determined in good part by the character of the patient. It should be borne in mind that unless posture and careful taxis cause a re- duction of the hernia, operation is imperative, and if the patient is re- lieved from pain by morphine he may be lulled into a false sense of se- curity, and may decline an operation the importance of which he is un- able to appreciate. In the manipulation {taxis), the neck of the tumor should he grasped and steadied between the thumb and fingers of one hand, while the contents are pushed gently in the direction of the canal with the other. Taxis should not be continued longer than five or ten minutes at any one effort. It may be repeated at intervals of ten minutes, or from ten minutes to half an hour, for the first three or four hours of the history of strangulation. The dangers of delay are so great, however, and the safety of operation so assured, that operation should not be postponed longer than three or four hours. The manipulation of a hernial tumor after six hours of strangula- tion is of doubtful propriety, and after twelve hours should not be attempted at all after the anaesthetic is administered. It is not only to be condemned for the injury one may inflict upon the parts involved, but on account of the procrastination in operative interfer- ence which it invites. It is true that occasionally reduction is ef- ected after symptoms of strangulation lasting for a longer period than this; but these cases are so extremely rare, and the danger of a fatal termination so much increased by the delay, that it will be wiser to proceed at once to the operation. In justification of early operation, it may be said that the large majority of cases which end fatally are those in which strangulation has existed for from twelve to twenty-four hours and upward before surgical interference; and that abdominal section in a patient not exhausted by suffering or dis- ease is almost free from danger. The high rate of mortality after kelotomy will only be materially reduced when it is performed not later than twelve hours, and better still, within the first six hours of strangu- lation. Operation.— The pubes, scrotum, and integument near the tumor, should be shaved, scrubbed with a clean, stiff brush, with green soap and warm water, washed with ether in order to dissolve the fat and clear out the sebaceous follicles, and finally bathed with a 1-1000 sublimate solution. The patient, fully anaesthetized, should be placed upon a table nearest the edge most convenient to the operator, with the pelvis slightly elevated. Before proceeding wdtli the operation, a final effort at reduction may be made. An assistant is directed to place the legs of the patient over his shoulders, and to lift him until nothing but the patient’s shoulders and occiput rest upon the table. While in this posi- tion careful taxis should be made. If after five minutes reduction is not effected, the attempt should be abandoned. The parts about the field of operation should be covered with warm sublimate towels (1-3000), leaving a space about six by eight inches uncovered. In males the prepuce should be sealed over with rubber protective melted on with chloroform.