(751) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. BY JOSEPH RANSOHOFF, M.D., F.R.C.S. Eng., PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE MEDICAL COLLEGE OF OHIO, SUR- GEON TO THE CINCINNATI HOSPITAL AND TO THE GOOD SAMARITAN HOSPITAL, CINCINNATI. Abscess op the Neck. - The loose connective-tissue planes of the neck and the lymphatic glands embedded within them are often the seat of purulent infection. This may develop primarily in the neck as a consequence of penetrating wounds, from without or from within, as from the pharynx or oesoph- agus, or may result from direct extension of a like affection from the floor of the mouth, tonsils, jaw, parotid gland, or vertebral column. In the great majority of instances, however, a cervical abscess begins as an adenitis, the result of septic inoculation of a lymphatic gland from a primary lesion situated somewhere in the vast territory drained by the cervical lymph-nodes and plexuses. Although they most often follow infectious lesions of the naso-pliarynx and its appendages, abscesses may ensue from apparently trivial lesions of the face, the nasal pas- sages, the external ear, or the scalp. The source of the infection may not be easy to determine, the primary lesion, often slight, having dis- appeared before manifestations of glandular infiltration are discover- able. Among the gravest abscesses of the neck are those which follow in the wake of typhoid fever, small-pox, diphtheria, and particularly scar- latina. To account for these is not difficult when we consider the fre- quency with which Assuring about the tongue, and erosions and ulcera- tions of the pharynx, occur in these diseases. Therefore in addition to the usual pyogenic organisms, the pus from cervical abscesses has been found to contain the bacillus of typhoid, the diplococcus of pneumonia, the ordinary spirillum, and the micrococcus tetrogenes.1 Abscess of the neck for the most part begins as an adenitis of one or a number of glands of a group nearest the point of primary infection. The inflammatory process may, as in glands elsewhere, stop short of suppurative softening, for it is quite certain that besides its function as a filter for septogenic organisms the lymphatic gland can through its wealth of cells render many of them inert. When overwhelmed, pus is produced. From within the glandular capsule, converted into a pus- sac, the peri-glandular connective tissue is invaded with greater or less 1 Roswell Park, Med. News, Oct. 16, 1888.