221 ETIOLOGY. scattered seeds growing on a hillside, originating from a plant at the top. Perhaps we should class here, too, those curious cases in which carcinoma develops in a laparotomy scar after the removal of an ap- parently benign ovarian cyst, just as ovarian cysts sometimes recur as malignant affections in the stump or adjacent organs, although at first innocent as far as our means of diagnosis enable us to determine. Although all these cases indicate a certain contagious element in can- cer, they do not imply anything more than the continuance of cell life as illustrated in any graft of normal tissues; for even if the cancer cells should adhere and grow, and invade healthy tissue in a new locality, it is after all just what they are doing at their original seat of growth, and there is no proof that they influence the tissues in the one place more than in the other. In other words, it is no proof of infection by germs of any sort, by chemical products, or even by the exceedingly vague and hazy “spermatic” influence so much talked of at one time. Yet the facts are worth collating, for not only do they contain the possibility of assisting in the final discovery of the etiology of these mysterious pathological processes, but they also have some very practi- cal bearings, in emphasizing the necessity of avoiding all chances of fresh inoculation of the wounds made during operations for the removal of malignant growths. Connection with Syphilis.—Von Esmarch has advanced a theory which is as impossible of contradiction as it is of proof, that the sar- comata are late developments of syphilis, appearing in the second or third generation after the syphilitic infection has apparently died out. He founds this hypothesis on the frequency of syphilis, its long con- tinued influence in a family, and the close anatomical resemblance be- tween gumma and sarcoma. One strong argument however, against it is the frequent occurrence of sarcoma in persons whose family history is perfectly free from any syphilitic taint, as shown by persistent good health. If the disease does not show its ordinary symptoms in the an- cestors, it is not easy to understand how it could retain enough strength to develop an affection so markedly malignant as sarcoma, in a later generation. Latent and tardy syphilis is common enough, but the occurrence of such irregularities as these is extremely improbable. Traumatism.—In considering the effect of traumatism in the causa- tion of tumors, we must distinguish three different kinds of action. (1.) The purely mechanical dislocation of a portion of tissue which may grow independently in a new situation, and there form a tumor. This has been pretty clearly demonstrated in the case of those epithelial tumors of the fingers and hands, usually cystic and resembling dermoid or sebaceous cysts, but occurring in regions where sebaceous glands do not exist and where dermoid cysts are rare. From dermoids they are also distinguishable by a lack of the papillary layer of the cutaneous lining (although this is not invariably present in dermoids), and espe- i cially by the fact that they do not usually occur in the interdigital folds, where, from the infolding of the epidermis during development, the formation of a dermoid cyst might be expected. Many cases are now on record (Poland, Barker, Reverdin), in which the history of trauma- i tism is clear and convincing. Christiani has reported the occurrence of