29 BACTERIA CAUSING INFLAMMATION. In needle cultures it grows as a granular grayish line, which after about three days turns yellowish, afterward of an orange color, liquefies the gelatin, and sinks to the bottom of the liquefied portion. On agar- agar, after twenty-four hours, there is a dark opaque colony, which subse- quently turns from yellow to orange. On potato, it grows as a thin whit- ish layer, which afterward becomes slimy and orange-yellow, producing a strong putrefying odor. On blood serum, it grows as on agar-agar. It develops best at from 30° to 37° C., somewhat more slowly at sum- mer temperature. It develops rapidly; spores have not been observed, but it shows a marked resistance to destructive agencies of various kinds, is facultatively aerobic, liquefies gelatin, stains well after Gram’s method, and has pathogenic effects upon various lower animals. (2) Another very common organism of the same class is the Staphy- lococcus Pyogenes At bus, which develops precisely as does the preceding, excepting that it produces no pigment in its colonies. (3) A third is the Streptococcus Pyogenes, found in progressive ery- sipelatous processes, and occurring as small cocci arranged in chains often made up of as. many as thirty elements. On gelatin plate cul- tures, it grows as fine round granular points. In streak culture, it is thickest in the middle, its color a dark brown, the contour growing thicker, swelling, and terrace-shaped. In needle culture in gelatin, the colony grows along the course of the needle track as a finely gran- ular line. On agar-agar, in a needle culture at from 35° to 37° C., it grows as a band-like grayish-white line with points. There is no sur- face growth, and only a very slight growth upon potato, the cocci changing so that under the microscope they appear of different sizes. On blood serum it develops as a thin band-like layer. Its best devel- opment is at 35° to 37° C., summer temperature being less favorable. Its growth is slow, it is facultatively anaerobic, non-liquefying, stains by Gram’s method, and produces a slow erysipelatous suppuration in the lower animals. (4) Very similar is the Streptococcus Erysipelatis, the only marked difference between the two being the greater apparent activit}7 of the latter in the living animal tissues. (5) The Gonococcus occurs in secretions from mucous membranes affected with gonorrhoea, as kidney-shaped diplococci with the concav ities facing each other. It seems to have a rotary and oscillating move- ment, but no true motility. There is no growth on gelatin, agar-agar, or potato, but it develops well on acid gelatin. On human blood serum, it develops as a very thin, almost transparent layer, which by reflected light appears grayish-yellow, with a moist glistening surface, whose edges appear diffused in the surrounding medium. The best temperature for its development is from 33° to 37° C. Its growth is very slow. It stains best with fuchsin or methyl violet, but does not stain by Gram’s method. Successful inoculations have been obtained by Bumm. (6) The Diplococcus Intracellular is Meningitidis has been obtained in six cases in the fresh exudation of cerebro-spinal meningitis, occur- ring as micrococci, usually in pairs or in small masses, and in the in- terior of the pus cells in the exudation. There is no growth upon gela- tin, but upon agar-agar there is a free viscid growth, gray by reflected light, grayish-white by transmitted, the growth occurring only near the