DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 660 Lovett1 has pointed out that it is an early symptom of spinal caries, largely due to muscular irritation, and advises that it should be looked upon as a diagnostic symptom. It differs widely from ordinary lateral curvature of the spine, from the fact that it is an abrupt tilting to one side, not a long rounded curve with rotation, as commonly seen in the latter condition; moreover, the symptoms of the diseases are usually entirely different. Disturbance of the Motor Nervous System in Spinal Caries.— Paraplegia is most common when the caries is situated in the dorsal region, since the cord at this point nearly fills the canal. Paralysis is usually produced, not by direct bone pressure from angulation, but by pachymeningitis with tuberculous or inflammatory deposit en- croaching upon the cord. Cases of even right-angled deformity may escape, while those of slight deformity may be of severe grade, espe- cially when the deposit is pressing upon the anterior column of the cord. This was well illustrated in one of my recent laminectomies, when there was found a tuberculous nodule upon the antero-lateral column, while in front of the cord was a large mass of tubercular tissue. Paraplegia had existed for more than a year. Lloyd2 describes a section of cord from a case of paraplegia in which the patient died from septic infec- tion due to bed-sores over the sacrum, the seventh dorsal vertebra having been previously diseased. He agrees, in common with Sinkler3 and others,4 that the deposit is nearly always the result of pachy- meningitis or lepto-meningitis, and that if transverse myelitis results it is a later condition. Schwenkel gives the result of 52 post-mortem examinations, in 32 of which compression existed, and Karskel5 gives 70 cases in which inflammatory or caseous products were present. Diagnosis of Spinal Caries.—Lateral deviation in spinal caries is usually abrupt, and is widely different from the long arch of lateral cur- vature. An occasional error may be made at the first examination of a resisting, crying child, when apparent rigidity of the spine may be found, and yet the complaint may be really a lateral curvature. In young children with torticollis, several examinations are sometimes necessary to exclude the non-existence of caries of the spine, if there is no deformity and if the rigidity is slight. Rigidity is the most reliable sign of caries; but even rigidity requires to be differentiated from vol- untary muscular resistance. Suppurative spinal caries is not infrequently confused with hip dis- ease. Open sinuses in the groin below Poupart’s ligament, or behind the great trochanter, or at some other point in the thigh or in the but- tock, frequently exist, together with marked rigidity at the hip. Flex- ion may also be present to the extent of 30 or 10 degrees, with resistance to motion in any direction at the hip, on account of pain, and from con- traction of the irritated psoas muscle. Especially when no history is attainable, and without careful examination, or when the back is with- out deformity, the true condition may be overlooked, and the error may not be corrected until kyphosis subsequently appears. Very frequently 1 Trans. Am. Orthopaedic Assoc., vol. iii., p. 186. 2 Univ. Med. Mag., Dec., 1893, p. 143. 3 Med. News, Nov. 18, 1893. 4 Elliot, New York Med. Journal, June 2, 1888. 6 Schmidt’s Jahrbiiclier, Leipzig, Apr., 1892.