588 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. When present, it may exist on either one or both sides. It is apt to be most marked on the same side as the abscess, but this condition may he reversed. The pupil on the same side as the lesion is commonly dilated, and more or less immobile, but the rule is not absolute. Marked fluc- tuations in the general condition of the patient often occur. 3. Focal or Localizing Symptoms.—If the abscess exist in the left temporo-splienoidal lobe, it may compress Broca’s convolution and produce motor aphasia. Paralysis of the levator palpehrse (ptosis), or of the other muscles supplied by the third nerve or the sixth, may be pres- ent. In the Rolandic region abscess may produce paralysis of the op- posite side of the face, or of the opposite arm or leg, according to its situation. Sometimes, if the pus begins low down and creeps upward, the centres will be involved in the order named. If the sixth nerve is involved there will be distinct squint. If the abscess arises in the frontal lobe, from injury or from nasal disease, localizing symptoms are not apt to occur; and the same is true of abscess in the occipital lobe, unless the disease involves the cuneus, when blindness of the same half of each retina will occur (homonymous hemianopsia). If the angular or supra-marginal gyrus be affected, there may be monocular Argyll-Robertson pupil, as has been pointed out by Oliver.1 It is doubtful whether the local temperature of the two sides of the head is a reliable guide. Sufficient observations have not been made to determine this point. The left side of the head, it must he remembered, is normally of a somewhat higher tempera- ture than the right. Pressure and percussion may he of value to localize the abscess, but too much reliance must not be placed upon them. According to Ferrier, pain which is not spontaneously com- plained of, but which is elicited by percussion, is of greater value than tenderness on pressure. Differential Diagnosis.—(1) Meningitis.—The diagnosis between abscess and meningitis is often very difficult. Meningitis following traumatism, however, is apt to develop within the first few days, but abscess does not commonly occur before the end of the first week. In meningitis also there is apt to be very early mental dulness, deepening into coma, or oftener, especially at the beginning, actual delirium, with photophobia, contraction of the pupils, high general temperature, and marked stiffness of the muscles at the back of the neck. The or- dinary causes of cerebral abscess also are usually absent. (2) Mastoicl disease following suppurative disease of the middle ear will sometimes cause very serious cerebral disorder without producing an abscess. Trephining the mastoid, which should always be done at an early period, will eliminate this factor from the problem. Ordinarily also the symptoms of mastoid disease—oedema, swelling, pain tender- ness, otorrhoea, particularly an otorrlioea of long standing—will be present. It must be remembered, however, that cerebral abscess is not uncommonly a sequence of mastoid disease. (3) Tumor is ordinarily very slow in its development, and, at least in 1 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, Oct., 1888, pp. 349, 355. By the term “Argyll-Robertson pupil” is meant a pupil which is more or less contracted, but in which the iris, although it will vary with accommodation and convergence, will not contract in response to the stimulus of light thrown on the retina.