SMALL HOSPITALS. 1049 dividuals; the hospital on completion was free from debt. The en- dowment fund for free beds reached the amount of $33,600 in the second year. The support of the hospital is aided by the city, by re- ceipts from private patients, and by collection from various sources. A “Hospital Aid Association” also makes valuable contributions from its membership of seven hundred, at an annual fee of one dollar each, besides rendering aid in other ways. The hospital has a capacity of twenty-five beds; it was opened in June, 1890, and admitted one hundred and two patients the first year, and one hundred and forty-six the second year. The building is of wood, and occupies a fine elevated site with a southerly aspect. The plan, Fig. 1803, shows two one-story pavilions, one of which is not yet built. The pavilion contains fourteen beds; there are six rooms for private patients and a small ward in the second floor of the administra- tion house. The heating Fig. 1803. is by steam, by indirect radiation; there are ven- tilating openings under the beds leading to a vent shaft two feet square, and others in the ceilings are connected with ven- tilators in the roof; there are also fireplaces in the wards and rooms. All rooms have rounded cor- ners in the plastering; the hard pine floors and white-wood finish also have all angles rounded. The plumbing is modern, with all pipes, etc., ex- posed, and the drainage is good. The hospital is under the charge of a matron, who is required to be “an educated and skilful nurse.” There is a regularly organized train- ing-school, and some income is derived from the employment of pupil nurses outside of the hospital. A corporation of over three hundred members elects twelve trustees, who control the management of the hos- pital through an executive committee. There is a medical board that nominates the members of the medical and surgical staff, which includes physicians of both regular and homoeopathic schools. The details of organization and management here given afford a good example of the method adopted in many of the small hospitals. The Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital, completed in 1893, at Han- over, N. H., in the neighborhood of Dartmouth College, is an excellent example of the double pavilion plan of construction. It is the generous gift of Mr. Hiram Hitchcock, of New York, by whom its benefits are bestowed upon the college, medical school, and the town and country