TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. 739 fissure between the pterygoid process and the upper jawbone is thus uncovered, and the spheno-palatine ganglion of Meckel is made acces- sible. To remove the infra-or- bital nerve as well as the gan- glion, an additional operation under the orbital margin is re- quired. Rose considers this method a good one, if it is de- cided not to attempt extirpation of the Gasserian ganglion itself. (Fig. 1709.) The lingual and inferior den- tal nerves are the sensory branches of the third division which usually demand surgical treatment for neuralgia. The latter is the only one claiming attention in an article on the surgery of the face, as the lin- gual nerve comes within the limits of the surgery of the oral cavity. The inferior dental nerve may be excised at the mental foramen by an incision made through the mucous mem- brane within the mouth, or through the skin. In the cuta- neous method the incision should be made under the lower border of the jaw, the skin being then drawn upward. It is better, however, to reach the nerve within the canal by cutting away the anterior layer of the jaw with trephine or chisel, near the junction of the body and the ascending ramus. Several inches of the nerve can be re- moved by subsequently chisel- ling out the roof of the canal as far forward as the mental foramen. It can be satisfac- torily excised also just above its entrance into the inferior dental canal, by trephining the jaw below the sigmoid notch and deepening that notch by cutting away the bridge over the opening thus made. (Fig. 1710.) This is a good method of reaching the lingual nerve as well as the inferior dental, and is practically the same opera- tion as that used by Rose to reach and divide the "third division just under the oval foramen. A large horseshoe incision is made around Fig. 1710. Fig. 1709. / / Diagram Showing Dissection Necessary to Expose Sec- ond Division of Fifth Nerve, According to Braun-Lossen Method, a, Zygomatic arcli divided and turned down; 6, temporal tendon arising from coronoid process and held back by retractor; c, superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion; d, infra-orbital nerve at emergence from canal. (Rose.)