INTRACRANIAL HEMORRHAGE. 569' moreover, both middle meningeal arteries have been found ruptured in one reported case, and under such circumstances the skull would of course require to be opened on both sides. As it cannot be ascertained before opening the skull whether the trunk, or the anterior or posterior branch, of the artery has been rup- tured, a sufficiently large semilunar flap should be raised to give access to the whole middle meningeal distribution. The crown of a large tre- phine, one and one-quarter inches (3-4 centimetres) in diameter, is ap- plied behind the exter- nal angular process of Fi§- 16 ,s- the frontal bone, on a line parallel to Reid's base line, and on a level with the upper- most portion of the orbital margin. (Fig. 1673, A.) If the clot is found here it must be gently removed by the finger or a Volk- mann’s spoon, aided by a stream of warm sterilized water.1 If bleeding continues, the vessel can usually be secured by one of the methods suggested in my former article, en- larging the bone opening if necessary for this purpose by the rongeur; I have myself, however, been compelled to tie the external carotid artery to arrest otherwise uncontrollable hemorrhage, coming, as the post- mortem examination showed, from a wound of the main meningeal trunk as it passed through the foramen spinosum.2 Should the anterior trephine opening show no clot, a second must be made in the same line just below the parietal boss (Fig. 1673, B), this showing that the bleed- ing vessel is often the posterior branch of the artery.3 The anterior opening may now be closed with its own button, only the posterior being utilized for drainage (which should be by tube or iodoform gauze); or through drainage may be instituted. If only one bone opening has been requisite to remove the clot and secure the vessel, and if in the recumbent posture good drainage cannot be insured, the opening must be enlarged, or a second, more favorably located perforation must be made. Where a general excessive oozing persists from the small ves- sels, antiseptic tainponnade may be requisite, as in one case in my own practice and in more than one reported by other surgeons. A, Anterior point for application of trephine for middle meningeal hemorrhage. B, Posterior point for same. C, Point of perforation for cerebral abscess secondary to ear disease. D, Foramen for mas- toid vein. E. Point of perforation for cerebellar abscess. P, Parietal eminence. 1 Weak bichloride solution may be employed if preferred. 2 Stroke (Berliner klin. Woclienschrift, 1892, No. 34, S. 860) reports his inability to secure this vessel by a ligature; he was compelled to leave a pair of htemostatic forceps applied for two days, when they were removed without further bleeding taking place. See also Symonds, Trans. Clin. Soc., London, 1886, vol. xix., pp. 12-26 and 159-163. 3 Although other rules have been given, I have found this reliable upon both the cadaver and the living subject.