DISEASES OF THE ACCESSORY SINUSES OF THE NOSE. 723 curved syringe passed with great gentleness into the middle meatus. The introduction of a fine probe into the sinus, as recommended by Juratz, is feasible in a small proportion of cases only, and is of very doubt fulutility. Applications of pyoktanin are advocated by Cholewa, of Berlin, and have been largely used in Philadelphia. I regard it as one of the feeblest and most unpleasant of antiseptics, and much prefer solutions of carbolic acid, and oily solutions of the antiseptic volatile oils, camphor, menthol, etc. Diseases of the Ethmoidal Sinus. — These have been recently classified by Bosworth 1 as follows: (1> extra-cellular myxomatous de- generation, with or without purulent discharge; (2) purulent ethmoi- ditis with nasal polypi; (3) intra-cellular myxomatous degeneration, with or without pus. The treatment advised by this author consists in uncovering the eth- moid cells by removing the convex cap of the middle turbinated body by means of the snare, and subsequently breaking up and destroying, as far as posssible, the trabeculae by means of the electric burr or the curette. I should myself prefer to confine such radical, and not alto- gether safe, measures, to very severe and otherwise incurable cases. Most earty cases will yield to the thorough use of antiseptic sprays, and of similar solutions thrown around the turbinated body by means of a delicate nasal syringe, with applications of iodine or europhen, and with general treatment of the naso-pharyngeal tract. Polypi and masses of granulation tissue must of course be removed by the snare or forceps to make room for future procedures, and the conservative use of a deli- cate curette is of value in a few cases. The region involved is par- ticularly vulnerable, great subsequent irritation resulting from ap- parently mild procedures; and energetic treatment not infrequently originates the condition it is designed to cure. Purulent etlimoiditis consists pathologically of an osteitis granulosa or a caries suppurativa,2 and is essentially a deep-seated bone lesion. The ordinary symptoms are pain referred to the bridge of the nose or brow, interference with olfaction, and the usual symptoms of an aggra- vated chronic rhinitis. On inspection the middle meatus is found to be encroached upon by the enlarged middle turbinated body. The mucous membrane may be dry and rugose, or may be studded with polypi and oozing muco-pus. Probing is often better omitted; by its use the mass is usually found soft and yielding, and one or more areas of dead bone may be found; frequently, however, the areas are bared by the manipulation. The treatment of all forms of chronic etlimoiditis consists in follow- ing generally accepted surgical principles: employing free drainage and antiseptic treatment, with stimulants to promote a more healthy action in the part. The various methods used by rhinologists to se- cure these results have been already indicated. Their special applica- tion depends on the conditions present in any given case. Purulent and Myxomatous Disease of the Sphenoidal Sinus.— This affection has had a number of cases added to its literature during 1 New York Med. Journal, No, 675, 1891. 2 MacDonald, Diseases of the Nose, 2d ed., p. 86.