143 TREATMENT. the question without the aid of pathological anatomy, a neglect of which is already beginning to show itself among the tendencies of the ardent followers of bacteria and immunities. Treatment. Next to the discovery of the bacillus, the treatment of tuberculosis has enjoyed the attention of the whole medical world more than any other division of the subject. The fundamental work of Koch had been so thoroughly done and so thoroughly accepted that when, at the tenth meeting of the International Congress at Berlin (1890), he intimated that he had found a remedy for tuberculosis, every physician consid- ered the whole matter more than half solved. This attitude was, however, quickly changed to expectancy by Koch’s first publication, which took place simultaneously in England, Germany, and the United States—so eager was every one to obtain details of the good news. The claims that Koch made for his remedy, afterward called tubercu- lin, were (1) That it made animals immune to tuberculosis and cured animals ill with tuberculosis; (2) That it was a diagnostic remedy ab- solutely essential; (3) That it was curative. Koch does not describe the method of obtaining the remedy, a procedure in which he is unfor- tunately upheld by some of the best German authorities, and one which cannot be too strongly condemned; but he tells where the remedy can be obtained, and advises the use of a new hypodermic syringe which is as cumbersome as it is unnecessary. Tuberculin, he claims, causes a specific effect upon tubercular processes; the diseased tissue is killed and is detached as a dead mass, or is fluidified; the bacilli are not killed, but the tissue surrounding them is affected. The diagnostic effect is observed in the form of a reaction, consisting essentially in a decided rise in temperature, accompanied by malaise, cough, vomiting, diffi- culty in breathing, preceded by a chill—one or more of these symptoms— but always the rise in temperature. For lupus, and for tuberculosis of glands, bones, and joints, he promises “rapid cure in fresh and mild cases, slowly progressive improvement in severe cases. ” In phthisis there is to be, first, increase in cough and expectoration, then diminution and disappearance of these symptoms as well as of the bacilli. “Incipient phthisis can he cured with certainty by means of the remedy;” relapses are unimportant, as they also can be cured. Only where there are large cavities can little be expected. With all this promised by a man of Koch’s scientific reputation and trustworthiness, it is not to be wondered at that Berlin was looked upon as a Mecca, that both physicians and pa- tients flocked there from all parts of the world, that scientific societies were dragged into enthusiastic utterances,1 and that even German-hat- ing Frenchmen like Pasteur were converted (it y a, it n’y a pas d dis- cuter). In this period of enthusiasm every one, with few exceptions, was for the remedy; the subject was taken up by the German government, the Reichstag was interpellated (Dr. Graf): “ What will the government do to get the remedy and make it of service to Germany, if necessary to the whole world?” At the same time the lay press was doing its best to obtain every sensational element out of the situation, being assisted 1 Freie Vereinigung der Chirurgen Berlin’s, 16 Nov., 1890.