SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 578 brain the reader is referred to the edition of Gray’s Anatomy, edited by myself.1 The day before the operation the head should be shaved anew, if necessary, scrubbed with soap and water, then with ether, then with a sublimate solution 1-2000 only, as stronger solutions are apt to vesicate. A sublimate dressing, the three or four inner layers which are wet with the solution, should then be applied and left in place until the operation, when the disinfection should be repeated. Of course all the ordinary precautions as to. thorough cleansing of the finger-nails, hands, and arms of the operator and his assistants, and of the instru- ments and dressings, should be scrupulously carried out. The best position for the patient is the semi-recumbent, in order to diminish hemorrhage. Three points should be marked on the bone: viz., the two ends of the fissure of Rolando and the point at which the centre-pin is to be placed, if the trephine is to be used, the reason for this being that, once that the scalp is raised, the position of the fissure of Rolando and the exact point for trephining are not easily re-deter- mined. The marking of the bone may be done with a small gouge, or with the centre-pin of another trephine, the rongeur forceps or other in- strument serving as a hammer. Luer’s Double Rongeur Forceps. Access to the Brain.—In very many cases the ordinary operation of trephining will suffice to give access to the brain. As the first step in linear craniotomy, tapping Fig. 1680. the lateral ventricles, elevat- ing fragments, and numerous other operations on the brain, this will be always the most feasible and favorite method of operating. Where we de- sire simply to get under the bone, as in linear craniotomy and in most cases of fracture, at least the recent ones, a small trephine (half an inch or an inch) will answer the purpose. When, however, access to any considerable portion of the brain is desired, either an inch-and-a-half trephine should be used, or multiple adjacent openings should be made by an inch trephine, the Fig. 1681. intervening bridges of bone being chiselled or sawn away, or bitten away by the rongeur forceps. If the opening is too small it can readily be enlarged in any direc- tion by the same forceps, of which two forms are here shown. (Figs. 1680, 1681.) Another method, however, has recently obtained great favor, and very justly, from the much larger area of the cerebral surface which it ex- poses, both for determining the fissures and convolutions and for opera- tive attack, and also from the better reestablishment of the integrity of the skull. As long ago as 1863, Wolff2 proposed and performed on animals a temporary or osteoplastic resection of the bone. He first ex- 1 Op. cit., p. 681, Philadelphia, 1887. 2 Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. iv. Hopkins’ Rongeur Forceps Modified by Weir.