324 VENEREAL DISEASES: SYPHILIS. Syphilis of the Blood-Vessels.—The question whether syphilis may occasion aortic aneurism has been much discussed, but it is now generally conceded that this is possible. Jaccoud 1 says that though the ultimate prognosis of syphilitic arteritis is unfavorable, long remis- sions may be procured by appropriate treatment.2 Hutchinson3 describes a case of coldness and lividity of the fingers of one hand, closely resembling Raynaud's disease and occurring in a syphilitic patient, which was cured by specific treatment. In the earlier stages of syphilitic arterial disease prompt and vigor- ous treatment may cure the lesion by resolution. After a certain length of time the new growth breaks down and ulcerates, or more frequently becomes transformed into cicatricial tissue. All hope of cure is then at an end. Angina pectoris of syphilitic origin has been observed, sometimes complicated with other troubles of innervation involving the vasomotor system.4 I have noticed this symptom in a single case. Treatment of Syphilis. Of late years the hypodermic method has been extensively employed in the treatment of syphilis, almost every possible salt of mercury hav- ing been essayed. When first experimented with, mercurial hypodermic injections were often followed by untoward results: pain, inflammatory reaction, ab- scesses, phlegmon, gangrene, etc. More recently, however, such acci- dents have become rare and may in most cases be avoided. Fournier3 gives the following suggestions to this effect:— 1. Caustic and extremely irritant compounds of mercury are to be avoided. 2. All solutions should be perfectly, chemically pure, filtered, steril- ized, and aseptic. Many accidents may be referred to the introduction of septic germs in the process of hypodermic medication. 3. The instruments employed must he very carefully purified. The syringe to be used should be so constructed that it may readily be ster- ilized. The needle should be somewhat more than an inch in length, so that it can be inserted deeply into the tissues, and should be made of some not readily oxidizable metal. The point should be kept perfectly smooth and sharp. 4. In performing the injection the strictest antiseptic precautions are to he employed as regards the instruments, the operator’s hands, and the surface of the skin. 5. The injection should be deeply made, superficial being much more likely to result in pain and inflammation than deep injections. Intra- muscular injections are best. 6. Certain localities are more tolerant of mercurial injection than others. The posterior surface of the trunk is the least sensitive, and 1 Lemons de Clinique Med., Gaz. des Hop., Fev. et Mai, 1886, Juin, 1887; and Aortite et anSvrysme de l’aorte d’origine syphilitique, La Semaine Med., 1887. - See also Knight, Syphilis and Aneurism, Archives of Medicine, New York, 1888. 3 Load. Med. Times, March 15, 1884. 4 Hallopeau, Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligraphie, Dec., 1887. 6 Traitement de la Syphilis. Paris, 1894.