825 SURGICAL TREATMENT OP PLEURITIC EFFUSIONS. dition is nearly always due to neglect, so that a spontaneous perforation has occurred leaving a thoracic fistula, which discharges at times hut a small amount of pus, and at others a much larger amount, and which if uncured, is sure sooner or later to lead to amyloid disease. Even if the cavity is widely opened by the ordinary method, it is impossible for it to heal, since the lung cannot expand from within nor the chest-wall collapse from without. The ribs, acting like parallel hoops, preserve a cavity which every effort on the part of nature fails to close. It is in these cases that the operation of Estlander, or thoracoplasty, has ren- dered such signal service. It is based on the theory that the unyielding outer walls of the chest-cavity must be made to collapse and meet the lung, and consists in the resection of the ribs which overlie the cavity, the results depending largely upon the completeness with which the two surfaces are brought in apposition and the cavity obliterated. It is almost needless to say that this operation should never be performed except when obliteration of the chest-cavity cannot he obtained in any other way. The state of the heart, of the other lung, and of the kid- neys, must also be taken into careful consideration. Phthisis and ad- vanced amyloid degeneration, if distinctl}7 present, are insurmountable objections to operative interference. The preparation of the patient is the same as for ordinary resection of the ribs. Chloroform is probably the best anaesthetic. The cavity to be treated must be thoroughly explored, if possible with the finger or vesical sound, and its margins accurately mapped out upon the chest with an aniline pencil. It will as a rule he found that the cavity is in the upper and central part of the pleural sac, rather than in its lower portion. No definite rule can he laid down for all cases, as it is impossible to determine beforehand how many or how much of "-he ribs will have to be resected. The success of the operation depends here, as it does in operations on other bone cavities, on the removal of the anterior por- tion of the bony wall, thus permitting the soft tissues to fall in and occlude the exposed space. The ribs usually removed are from the second to the seventh inclusive. The amount removed may vary from one inch to nearly the entire length of the rib. Various plans and incisions are proposed for exposing the costal walls. Estlander makes an incision along the costal space, and through this wound resects the two adjoining ribs. If six ribs are to he resected, three incisions will be called for. Jacobson advises two or three inci- sions, two being usually sufficient, and raises several flaps comparatively small in size. Mr. Godlee, one of the highest of English authorities, in his Brompton Lectures, advises a large V-shaped or U-shaped flap com- posed of all the soft parts. This makes the operation one of considerable severity, as it involves a large wound and possibly much hemorrhage. Gould recommends a longitudinal incision over the central part of the cavity, each rib being exposed in turn and stripped of its periosteum. If a considerable length of rib has to be removed, it is better to cut it away piecemeal. If the cavity extend far hack toward the spine, it will be found convenient, after removing the anterior portion of the rib, to remove the posterior part from the inside, peeling the thickened pleura from the bone and applying angulated cutting bone forceps from within the chest, thus simplifying the operation and disturbing