WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 68 his method of wound-treatment, closes all aseptic wounds hermetically. To facilitate this a piece of sterilized gauze is packed into the wound at the end of the operation and allowed to protrude from the lower angle (Fig. 1576). The wound is then sutured, with the exception of that part from which the gauze escapes, and here a few untied sutures are placed (Fig. 1577). Firm compression is now exerted upon the line of suture, and continued until all the blood and secretions have been expelled from the wound by way of the tampon. The latter is then ex- tracted, the last sutures are tied, and the wound is entirely closed (Fig. 1578), compression being all the time exerted to prevent the entrance of air into the wound. An aseptic dressing is finally applied. Most surgeons to-day, we venture to assume, combine the methods of Neuber and Scliede in the treatment of aseptic cases. They still believe in removing all blood-clots from wound-surfaces where coaptation is possible, but they allow such spaces as cannot be obliterated by suture or compression to fill with blood, and trust to organization. When dealing with wounds of any depth, even though perfectly aseptic, many surgeons still employ drainage-tubes, believing that the inconveniences which their use entails are fully offset by the assur- ance that no retention can occur, and that the risks of infection are in consequence minimal. When drainage-tubes are used, they should he entirely removed at the end of about a week, if everything has gone on satis- factorily. They should not be shortened, or removed and re- introduced. Their purpose has been to supply a safety-valve during the first days of reaction and secretion, and they can now be dispensed with, having ful- filled their object, since they fur- ther act only as foreign bodies in the wound. Their track will then close rapidly. To avoid a complete removal of the dressings, it has been suggested to so arrange the tubes at the outset that they can be removed without un- covering the wound. This plan is somewhat cumbersome, and has never met with general favor. It possesses no advantage over com- Fig. 1577. Fie:. 1576.