LYMPHANGEIOMA. 259 anaemia brought on by a succession of bleedings due to some small ulcers in the affected region. Sutton reports another rare case—an angeioma in the mamma of a lad seventeen years old—which began as a naevus just below the nipple, when he was a child, and grew slowly until it measured three and one- half inches in diameter and had invaded the breast, when it nearly cost the boy his life through hemorrhage caused by an accidental in- jury. With this must be placed Sendler’s curious case in which an angeioma the size of a two-thaler piece hung from the nipple of an un- married woman, forty-five years of age, by a pedicle as thick as a raven’s quill and one centimetre long. It was of congenital origin, and of steady, slow growth, and was covered with normal skin. The patient said that it swelled up and discharged a brownish fluid through the nip- ple during menstruation. A very unusual combination-form of angeioma is that reported by Liicke, namely, an ossifying angeioma. This tumor, composed of an- geiomatous and osseous tissues, both in a state of progressive growth, the ossification apparently following the extension of the angeioma, oc- curred in the antrum of Highmore of a woman twenty-six years of age, who had noticed pain and swelling of the jaw for one year previously. The growth was removed, and examined by Recklinghausen. Djako- now had previously recorded a case of similar tumor, except that this also contained myxomatous tissue, which developed in the course of two years, after a severe blow, from the orbital ridge of the frontal bone in a young woman twenty-one years old. This tumor had also been successfully removed. As was to have been expected, the hemorrhage was terrific in both operations. Lymph angeioma. The tumors formed of lymphatic vessels differ from those of the blood-vessels by their tendency to form cysts. They may be classified under three forms, simple or varicose, cavernous, and cystic. The “tuberous” form observed in the skin by Kaposi differs from the sim- ple only in the thickening of the walls of the vessels, giving the tumors a firm, incompressible character. Their etiology is uncertain, but these growths are probably dependent upon some congenital vice of forma- tion, or tendency to increase of the lymphatic vessels, just as in the I case of the haematic angeiomata. Bessel-Hagen would include in the lymphangeiomata only those lymphatic swellings in which there is no obstruction to the circulation, naming all others lymphangiectases. A practical difficulty arises in distinguishing these two classes, but Nasse judiciously suggests that we should admit among the lymphangeiomata every tumor in which the obstruction cannot be demonstrated. Histologically these tumors consist of lymphatic vessels of all sizes, lined with endothelium. There are often round cells just outside of the growths, sometimes in large numbers, but not infiltrating the in- tervening connective tissue, and apparently not leucocytes. These cells are supposed to be angeioblasts, and their discovery appears to render it certain that we have in these tumors a new formation of vessels, not a mere distention of preformed channels. In fact, in the skin, lymph spaces appear in the papillae where normally there are none.