LACERATED CERVIX AND AMPUTATION OF THE UTERINE LIPS. 1031 tion, to retain a finger in the rectum during this process, as a guard, and finally, when the scissors are used, to turn their points toward the vagina. (Fig. 1786.) Willems adds to the application of this operation for extirpation of the uterus, its use in some cases of pelvic suppuration, pelvic hema- tocele, and tumor. Zuckerkandl, in regard to its employment in extirpation of the ute- rus, claims that it offers all the advantages of the operation of Kraske; the space is quite as great; as in sacral resection, the uterus and its appendages can be examined, the broad ligaments can be divided while seen, the uterine artery tied, and wounding the ureters avoided. Among the accidents that have followed the so-called Kraske’s opera- tion, the following are mentioned1 by Bonnet and Petit: Hemorrhages from the pre-sacral and uterine arteries, tearing, perforation of the rectum, of the small intestine, of the bladder, or of the ureter, urinary or faecal fistulae, and sacral necrosis. Sanger’s Substitute for Emmet’s Operation for Lacerated Cer- vix, and Amputation of the Uterine Lips. Sanger in place of, in the usual manner, paring and stitching the surfaces of a torn cervix together, performs the following operation in some cases of bilateral laceration: An incision is made in the sound tissues above the apex, and extended on each side of the tear until near the lower portion of the lips—here the tissue is kept intact. Next the flap thus formed is drawn down so that the freshened surfaces behind it can be brought into immediate contact; these surfaces are then stitched together, the flap being thus pushed down to the external os, and indeed in part projecting beyond the surrounding surface. The objections made to this operation are that diseased tissue may be, and often is, thus retained; and that the projection formed by the flap thus thrust down by no means restores the parts to a natural condi- tion. In some cases of bilateral laceration, instead of performing trache- loplasty, experience has taught me that it is very much better, as Martin does, to amputate a portion of each lip. Given considerable enlargement of the womb, the so-called subinvolution of the uterus— often really the consequence and the condition of inflammation—an obstinate uterine catarrh, possibly menorrhagia, possibly, too, a history of repeated miscarriages, it is, I believe, better to remove a portion of each lip, stitching the surfaces of each thus left raw, by catgut; this amputation is preceded by curetting the uterus, and by the injection of Churchill’s tincture of iodine. It should be remembered that in this, as well as in other of Dr. Mar- tin’s operations upon the sexual organs, previously described, the most careful disinfection is carried out before and during the operation, the latter by constant irrigation with a three-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid. This scrupulous care, he believes, explains the almost invariable exemption of his patients from septic infection. 1 Op. cit.