REMOVAL OF THE GASSERIAN GANGLION FOR TIC DOULOUREUX. 637 independently of Hartley, by whom, however, he was anticipated both in its performance on the living subject and in publication of the method. In Krause’s case, to check hemorrhage the space between the dura and the bone was packed with iodoform gauze, and under anaesthesia on the fifth day the nerves were divided. I have found this method of performing the operation in two stages very useful, and have adopted it in two out of the three cases I have operated on. In one of them I packed the cavity with a piece of gauze thirty-seven inches long and six inches wide, to arrest the hemorrhage, and left it in the cavity of the skull for three days. No mischief resulted from it. In removing the ganglion care must be exercised not to injure the carotid artery, which can, however, easily be felt- and identified by the finger. But more especially must the surgeon be careful of the cavernous sinus, as it cannot be recognized with any certainty, its walls being tense and there being no pulsation. It is an encouragement to know that in Stewart’s case, though the cavernous sinus was opened, yet packing with sponges wrung out of hot water arrested the bleeding, and the operation was successfully terminated, the patient recovering. Fig. 1695. Hartley's Operation for Removal of the Gasserian Ganglion; the Flap Turned Down. In the following table I have collected all the cases which I have found thus far reported. They include cases operated on by every method, and of the 62 cases only 12 have ended fatally, 19.3 per cent., a small mortality, considering the character and newness of the operation. Thus far there has been a moderate recurrence of the neuralgia in one case of Rose’s and in one of my own. It must be remembered, however, that the operations have been reported after a comparatively brief period. It is therefore too early to give a definitive opinion as to the permanency of the cure. It is thus far, however, apparently both a very successful operation and a not very dangerous one. Should a longer experience prove it to be efficacious, it may possibly become the operation of first