INFLAMMATION. 24 the pus with half its bulk, or less, of a saturated solution of ammonium sulphate, then adding crystals of the same salt to saturation, and fil- tering. If a drop of copper sulphate solution is then added to the clear filtrate, no precipitation is produced, for the ammonium has precipi- tated all the proteids except peptone, and on adding an excess of solution of caustic potassa, a dense white precipitate of potassium sulphate is thrown down. On this subsiding, the pink coloration of the clear supernatant fluid can he seen. Shattock has been able, by dialyzing pus, to show the same with the biuret reaction. For the separation of the albumoses, Dr. Sidney Martin’s method was necessary. The pres- ence of albumose and peptone in pus is not peculiar to the action of pyogenic bacteria. Dr. Martin had shown both in the alkaline albumin in which he had grown the bacillus of anthrax. The peptone in all the specimens tried was very small, being indeed a mere trace, and the amount of albumose was much larger. The summary of this work of Shattock’s leads naturally to a men- tion of other experiments of the same nature (upon soluble products of bacteria), but of a very different and more important class. Action of Soluble Bacterial Products upon Inflammation. Charran and Gamaleia1 thus summarize the results of their investiga- tions upon the action of soluble bacterial products upon inflammation:— Buchner and Bouchard have established that the intensity of a local bacterial lesion is most often proportionate to the resistance of the inoc- ulated animal. It has also been demonstrated that this local lesion is always rich in leucocytes, except in cases of absolute vaccination, a direct result of this resistance of the animal. In order to explain the presence or absence of these leucocytes according to the condition of immunity, or of receptivity, certain authors have considered that in the first case the white corpuscles are attracted by the bacterial secretions, or at least become accustomed to their action, which in the second case produces an effect of repulsion, or of paralysis. Bouchard has placed beyond doubt, by his experiments, the property possessed by the soluble products of preventing the appearance of the leucocytes. He has, in fact, shown that the diapedesis can be arrested if certain sterilized cultures be injected, and the authors quoted above bring forward new facts to support this observation. If one rubs croton oil, according to Samuel’s method, upon the ears of r-abbits, there appear at the end of four hours redness and swelling, and in about eight hours an exudation which is very abundant, and which is sometimes accompanied by the formation of blisters; but if after having subjected an animal to the same treatment with croton oil, there are injected into the veins (four or six times every two hours) 5 to 8 cubic centimetres per kilogram of the sterilized culture of the bacillus pyo- cyaneus, none of the foregoing phenomena occur. The alterations only appear on the following day, if through fear of poisoning the injections are stopped. As a result, therefore, it appears that the secretions of certain pathogenic agents can act upon inflammation as a whole, pre- venting congestion and transudation of plasma, as well as diapedesis. 1 Comptes Rendus, t. 110, p. 1154.