CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OP HOSPITALS. 1046 upon plans by the architect, Addison Hutton, in connection with the writer. These buildings are shown in elevation, fronting on Spruce Street, in Fig. 1800; beyond them, in the picture, appears the roof of the old hospital, which fronts on Pine Street. The limitations as to the area and form of the lot led to a variation from the generally adopted plan of construction in the pavilions, in order to utilize best the whole space for these and future structures, and preserve the pavilion principle. The buildings are of brick and harmonize with the colonial style of the old hospital; they are so placed that their head-houses face in the opposite direction and toward the northern boundary of the lot, at a distance from it of twenty-five feet. The grade becomes lower here, permitting, for the central building, a carriage approach and an entresol entrance in the basement story, Fig. 1800. ; : - = SS —' P « “il Memorial Pavilions, Pennsylvania Hospital. which is ten feet high. A large bay is formed upon this end of the building and affords a fine oval room on the first floor, which with this mode of entrance is so treated as to give a special memorial character to this part of the structure. Beyond this the basements are mainly used for purposes of ventilation and warming. The first-floor plan of the three buildings is given in Fig. 1801. They are connected by a basement corridor which extends to the central part of the old hospital; the corridor forms a covered way with open sides between the new pavilions on the first floor, and a terrace on the second floor. The distance between the’buildings is 45 feet at the nar- rowest, and 50 feet where the large wards are. The sides of the build- ings are free from projections. The central pavilion is of three stories; the rear half of the corridor on the first floor being a passage to the other wards, the adjoining rooms are arranged for special uses, and are not commonly occupied by patients. The memorial rooms and four special wards occupy the front end of the building. The east and west