1045 HOSPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO PROMOTE ASEPTIC SURGERY. The floor is of marble mosaic, and its immediate surroundings are finished in marble and iron. The steps leading to the seats of the amphitheatre are of slate. Under the seats the sloping surface is of asphalt over thin concrete on wire lath. At the top of the entrance stairway are two rooms, one for surgical records and the other for the house staff. A covered corridor leads from the' Hospital to the building, on the level of its floor, all of which is laid in marble mosaic with angles rounded to meet a marble wainscot 5 feet high. Several of the more important rooms, where it is desirable to promote aseptic conditions, are fitted with doors of pure white Italian marble, l-§- inches thick, hung on massive metal hinges, a single slab in each case forming a door. The special operating-rooms for septic and other cases are fitted with all conveniences, the interior and equipment being chiefly of marble, glass, and metal. The front part of the building rises to two stories, and the central and rear portion to three stories above a basement. On the ground floor the outer rooms, east and west, are only one story high and admit light by skylights as well as by large windows in the outer wall, which, from their situation, have to be fitted with semi-opaque glass. The rooms are carefully and ingeniously fitted for the uses indicated in the plan; the instrument-rooms, for example, have cases of metal frames with glass doors, sides, and shelves, which were imported especially for their purpose; and there are many devices for promoting asepsis. An inclined plane has been provided, in place of an elevator, by which patients may be wheeled to the recovery-rooms, four in number, on the second floor. The sterilizing apparatus occupies a room by itself, and is one of the most efficient of the agencies employed to promote asepsis. The lighting of the amphitheatre and of every other part of the struc- ture is by the use of both gas and electricity. The warming is by steam ; the air, taken at an elevation of 22 feet 8 inches from the ground, passes over steam pipes in great inlet ducts in the basement, and is forced by fans throughout the building; it is driven by one fan to the amphi- theatre alone, and by a second fan to all other parts of the building. Fresh air, either hot or cold, as may he desired, is supplied to the amphitheatre through one hundred four-inch cast-iron inlets, com- mercially described as goose-necks, penetrating the inclined plane under the seats and directing the air, as it is received from the chamber underneath, upon the surface of the inclined plane. Ventilation is by aspiration through a large register near the ceiling, into a heated chamber which thence discharges its contents at the highest point of the structure, to the outer air. In all other rooms of the building separate vent-ducts rise directly upward to their exit openings, like chimney-flues—a system which entails the risk of down draughts of cold air in some of them if a careful balance of the forcing and extracting power is not always maintained. The Pennsylvania Hospital, built in 1750, has pre-eminent claims to be called a historic institution, being the first general hospital in the country. It has been adapting itself to modern needs by some new construction in the last three years, and has now an excellent new home for nurses, and an out-patient department. Another important addition, recently completed, consists of three separate pavilions built