INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, ETC. 1 Transactions, vol. x., 1892. 741 Suturing tba tongue to the floor of the mouth was suggested by the late Professor S. D. Gross as a means of relief, although doubtful as to its efficacy. Papula.—In addition to the methods of treatment usually practised, 1 have found incision of the cyst-wall, evacuation of the contents, and packing with iodoform gauze successful. Cysts.—Later investigations into the character of sublingual cysts show that they are usually dermoid and may contain hair, teeth, and hone, as well as the usual cheesy matter found in dermoid cysts. They are formed by involution of the epiblast during development, and are situated between the muscles connected with the tongue and the floor of the mouth. This fact makes their removal through the mouth some- times difficult, especially if they have attained any considerable size. Carcinoma of the Tongue.—Carcinomatous affections of the tongue and their treatment by surgical procedures have been so thoroughly discussed by Mr. Heath in the fourth volume of this work that but little can be added. In a paper read before the American Surgical Associa- tion, Dr. N. P. Dandridge1 concludes that the removal of the tongue in carcinomatous affections is justifiable, prolongs life, adds com- fort to the patient, and affords a reasonable hope of permanent cure. All operations should be preceded by an effort to secure thorough disinfection of the mouth and teeth. When the disease is confined to the tongue, Whitehead’s method, removal by the scissors, is preferred. Preliminary ligature of the lingual artery is not considered necessary. Unilateral extirpation is advocated when disease is limited to one-half of the organ, and Baker’s method of tearing through the raphe should always be employed. When the disease has extended to and involved the floor of the mouth, submaxillary gland and cervical glands, Koch- er’s operation is advised. By this operation the cavity of the mouth is opened through the digastric triangle, and the tongue, being drawn through the wound, is removed by the scissors or galvano-cautery. Preliminary tracheotomy is performed with subsequent tamponade of the fauces. The glands involved can be removed by the incisions made to enter the mouth. Preliminary tracheotomy is thought to add an unnecessary element of danger to removal of the tongue, in ordinary cases. Volkmann has achieved remarkable successes in cases of exten- sive disease by opening the mouth by lateral division of the lower jaw at the position of the canine or first molar tooth. It is desirable in all cases to get the patient out of bed at the earliest possible moment after the operation, and to feed him generously. Allusion has been made by by Mr. Heath to ligation of the lingual artery for the purpose of checking hemorrhage and arresting the growth of cancerous disease of the tongue. In the case of a man aged sixty-five years who suffered from carcinoma involving the left side of the tongue, palate, floor of the mouth, and inner surface of the cheek, I tied the left common carotid artery, with the result of securing cicatrization of the ulcerated surfaces; right hemiplegia, however, followed the operation, and within a year the patient died from exhaustion.