956 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. exposure of the urethra and division of the stricture with a fine, sharp knife, so as not to push the fibrous tissues ahead of it, a large gum catheter is inserted into the bladder, and a series of fine catgut sutures are inserted through the margins of the cut urethra, and then carefully tied. The soft parts covering the urethra, except the posterior one- third of the wound, which is left open for drainage, are united by deep wire sutures. The catheter is left in the bladder for one week, and then taken out, cleansed, and reinserted, being worn for about a month. The bladder is washed out daily with warm boric-acid solu- tion. The perineal sutures are removed at the end of two weeks. Shield reports three cases, in all of which healing was prompt and complete, and Gould four cases which also did well. In view of these successes, as well as of those obtained in suture of ruptured urethra, it may be said that this method may be adopted with a prospect of rapid healing of the urethra in cases in which fibrous thickening about the point of stricture is not marked, or where the stricture is of limited extent. Suprapubic Cystotomy and Retrograde Catheterization.—This operation, briefly mentioned by Duplay, has in recent years occasionally been resorted to with success in cases of impermeable stricture, in which it has proved impossible to find the urethra by the external perineal operation. Cases in which it has been successfully performed have been recorded by Howse,1 2 Dixon,3 Troisfoulaiiies,3 and Vigo.4 5 The operation is legitimate in any case of stricture in which, as the result of traumatism, or of inflammatory deposits about the canal, the anatomy of the parts is so altered as to render it impossible to trace or to recognize the urethra; or in cases of rupture of the urethra in which careful search fails to discover the proximal end of the canal. In- stances will, however, he rare in which either by the operation of Wheel- house or by that of Cock, the attempt to establish the continuity of the urethra will fail. Combined Internal and External Urethrotomy.—This opera- tion, which has for its object drainage of the bladder through the peri- neum, in order to prevent contact of the urine with strictures divided by the internal incision, has, under certain circumstances, much to commend it. Mr. Reginald Harrison/to whom the profession is in- debted for bringing it into notice, points out, as the advantages to he gained by it, that it not only tends to improve the condition of the di- vided stricture by relieving it from the irritating effect of urine flowing over it, and from the consequent inordinate exudation of plastic lymph thrown out at the seat of incision, but that it prevents the occurrence of urinary fever resulting from urine becoming pent up in the wounded tissues. The irritating effect upon a wounded surface of the passage of urine without free drainage, and the excessive inflammatory deposit resulting 1 Trans. Clin. Soc., London, 1878, vol. xii., p. 9. 2 Amer. Pract. and News, Louisville, 1887, N. S. vol. iii., p. 392. 3 Ann. de la Soc. Med.-Chir. de Liege, Mars, 1888. 4 Ann. d. Mai. d. Org. Genito-Urin., Juin, 1888, p. 436. 5 British Med. Journ., July 18, 1885. Lectures on the Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs. Fourth ed London, 1893.