CLUB-FOOT. 543 Morton says that the astragalus is sometimes so misshapen as to be unrecognizable, and partially displaced forward so that it even does not articulate with the tibia and fibula. In old cases the distortion is ex- ceedingly great, the neck especially becoming misshapen and rotated. The os calcis, from pressure, is often twisted, and forms laterally an oblique angle to the line of the leg, which is very difficult to overcome even after operation. The other bones of the foot, particularly the cuboid and scaphoid, from continuous pressure become wedge-shaped, and their replacement in adult life is almost impossible. In addition to this, all the ligaments, fasciae and connective tissue upon the inner side of the arch become shortened, while the tissues and ligaments upon the outer side are greatly elongated. Treatment of Congenital Varus.—Infantile talipes cases are fre- quently neglected by physicians for many months, during which time the exceedingly rapid growth of the bones during the first three months of life, together with the pressure of the clothing, tends to greatly in- crease the bony distortion and render subsequent rectification difficult. The proper time to commence the treatment is immediately after birth. The most common methods of correcting varus may be classified under the following heads: (1) Manipulation; (2) Mechanical devices for straightening; (3) Multiple tenotomies with forcible immediate rectification followed by fixation in the corrected position; (4) Open incision; (5) Tarsotomy; (6) Tarsectomy; (7) Amputation. (1) Manipulation.—Hand stretching of all the contracted tissues with massage of the disabled peroneals is by far the most effective means of rectification of an equino-varus. If thoroughly performed, it will nearly always avoid the necessity for operation, and even when par- tially employed it is a great service in securing pliable feet. Rectifica- tion can be employed many times during the day to the point of im- parting only slight pain to the infant. The amount of improvement is usually in exact proportion to the amount of intelligent manipulation which is received. (2) Mechanical Appliances.—Any simple splint will answer for keep- ing the foot in position. The exceedingly small size of the heel makes retention difficult without adhesive plaster, but with care excoriations can be prevented. A piece of sole leather, or felt, or tin, or aluminium, cut and fitted in the shape of a half boot and applied along the inner side of the leg and foot, will keep it in place. As the foot grows, gyp- sum bandages frequently applied in advancing stages of rectification are useful when parents have not time to practise manipulation. These plaster boots, if slit open and the foot straightened frequently, are very useful, especially in dispensary work. Wolf's plan is to cut out from time to time a section of the cast upon the convexity of the arch, to forcibly straighten the foot, and to fix it in the corrected position by a few turns of plaster bandage. As soon as the position is sufficiently improved to admit of the reten- tion of an apparatus, an appliance that will admit of manipulation with- out removal of the brace is the best for cases occurring among the poor, or with those who cannot give time to the treatment. Such forms of 1 Trans. Amer. Surg. Assoc., vol. viii., 1890, p. 71.