FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 435 me that unsatisfactory results, if as common as they are now claimed to be, would be matters of constant observation. In conclusion, I think that in ordinary simple fractures of the patella the treatment pursued should he non-operative, but that an attempt should be made to control the quadriceps muscle, and to bring the frag- ments as close together as possible. - The circumpatellar subcutaneous suture may be used, with the strictest asepsis, if special reasons exist for seeking a speedy union. Malgaigne’s hooks, properly applied, I believe to be safe and efficient, but not time-saving. In compound fractures, where the fragments are from the outset widely separated, and espe- cially if there is reason to suspect great laceration of the lateral fibrous tissues; when the joint is persistently swollen from effusion of blood within it; at a later period, if the prospect of usefulness of the limb is doubtful; or when in old cases the limb is actually useless, I think the opening of the joint by a suitable incision, and the suturing of the fragments and fibrous tissues, with the most careful asepsis, fully warranted by experience. Fractures of the Bones of the Leg. A somewhat curious case is reported by Thomson.1 A heavy man fell from a height, alighting on his feet; at his death a week afterward it was found that the tibia had given way at two points, and that the sharp upper end of the middle fragment had acted as a wedge, splitting the upper into two principal portions; the head of the bone was broken up into five fragments, apparently by the impact of the condyles of the femur. Additional cases of tearing off of the tubercle of the tibia have been recorded by Will,2 by Muller,3 and by Landsberg.4 Besides his own, which was noted in Bruns’s clinic, Muller cites six other instances, ob- served by Lauenstein, von Pitha, Vogt, Sistach, Weinlechner, and Sta- bell. In seven of the total of nine, the accident occurred to young men from 16 to 18 years of age, in the act of vaulting. In two, Will’s and Landsberg’s, the fragment was reduced and secured in place by a metal pin; both made good and rapid recoveries. In the other seven, the treat- ment seems to have consisted simply in the use of retentive apparatus, and was very successful in five; the remaining two were old cases when seen by von Pitha and Sistach. Hodges5 has recorded a case of compound green-stick fracture of the tibia, in a boy aged 6 years, from the passage of a wheel over the limb; there were a transverse and two vertical fissures. A good re- covery ensued by the thirtieth day. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the tibia, in a boy aged 8, whose case is reported by Heuston,6 was followed by acute synovitis of the knee-joint, and seven months afterward by suppuration, which was successfully treated by erasion and by drainage through the popliteal space. Compound disjunctions of the lower epiphysis have been re- 1 London Med. Recorder, July 15, 1885. 2 British Med. Journal, Jan. 22, 1887. 3 Beitrage zur klin. Chirurgie, 1888, Bd. iii. 4 Centralbl. fur Chirurgie, 28 Sept., 1889. 6 New York Med. Journal, Oct. 10, 1891. 6 Lancet, June 29, 1889.