278 TUMORS. Carcinoma of the Lips.—Williams found that of 352 neoplasms of the lip only 12 affected the upper, and of 332 epitheliomata only 3 were so situated. Of 33 cases from the Middlesex Hospital only 2 were in the upper lip, and both of these occurred in women. The lips are much more frequently the seat of cancer in the male than in the female, Wil- liams finding, in his 329 cases in the lower lip, only 3 in women. The proportion, however, appears to be somewhat different on the Continent, for Worner and Rapok, collecting respectively 866 and 919 cases from various German authorities, found that over nine per cent, occurred in women. While cancer in the lower lip is so much rarer in woman than in man, that of the upper is proportionately much more common, Esch- weiler finding that, in sixty-one cases of epithelioma of the upper lip, twenty-four, or about two-fifths, were in the female sex. He estimates that in men there is one case in the upper lip to twenty-four in the lower, while in women there is one in the upper to every three in the lower. But it appears to me that Worner’s statistics, which make the proportions in men one on the upper lip to forty-five on the lower, and in women one to seven, are nearer the truth. Cancer of the upper lip appears to be more frequent in Germany than in England, for against Williams’s 3 cases in 332, we must set Rapok’s collection of 43 in 769, or in England less than one per cent., against five and one-half per cent, in Germany. The frequency of malignant disease in the lips, taken together, is, however, nearly alike in the two countries, for Williams makes cancer of the lip 4.5 per cent, of all cancers, while Virchow places it at 4.9 per cent. Eschweiler says that the disease is less rapid in the upper than in the lower lip, often resembling the more superficial forms of epithelioma, and that recurrence is less apt to take place after operation. We must distin- guish between "epithelioma of the skin developing on the lip, and epithelioma involving the vermilion border or mu- cous membrane. Fig. 1603 represents an example of the former condition, which has a much less malignant course than the other, growing slowly and being less apt to recur after removal. WTilliams gives an interesting comparison between seven cases in which the disease in the lower lip ran its course without opera- tion, the patients dying in an average of sixteen months from its beginning, and twelve cases operated upon and the disease recurring (including one in which the operation was fatal), the average survival being fifty months. As we shall see, the results of radical operations are even better than these figures. As to the exact situation of the disease in the lower lip, adding to 285 cases of Worner the 59 cases of Williams, we find that of 344 cases it was on the right half of the lip in 89, on the left half in 80, in the middle in 85, and at the angle of the mouth in 24, while it in- volved the entire lip in 66; moreover, of fifty cases in which that point Fig. 1603. Epithelioma of Skin of Lower Lip, Ver- milion Border Remaining Intact. Patient, thirty-six years of age; tumor of two and a half years’ duration.