329 INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN—HYPERTROPHIES. scissors or the knife. When very numerous and closely packed together, the use of the German or of the domestic soft soap may, by causing exfoliation of the epidermis and discharge of the contents, result in a rapid cure. The application of caustic potassa or silver nitrate to the interior of the cyst, after squeezing out its contents, is at times ad- missible. The use of electricity, by .means of the galvanic current applied as in the operation for removal of superfluous hair, may be tried in all cases with advantage. Inflammations of the Skin. Dermatitis Venenata.—The action of chlorine, used in the form of the solution of chlorinated soda (Labarraque’s solution), will commonly effect a cure in four or five days. It may be applied in full strength, except in a decidedly acute case, when a weaker solution will be pref- erable. Hypertrophies. Callosities.—Tyloma may be congenital. Five cases of this form of disease have been described by Unna under the name of keratoma palmare et plantare liereditarium. Crocker 1 has also recorded similar cases to which he has given the name of ichthyosis palmaris et plan- taris. The internal use of arsenic, when long continued, may give rise to this affection, and it may likewise probably be caused by liy- peridrosis. Treatment.—After soaking the feet in warm water and paring down the callosity with a knife, a plaster of salicylic acid, twenty per cent., or salicylic acid dissolved in collodion or ether, will cause maceration of the hardened tissue which can then readily be removed. Clavus.—Treatment.—Should the patient object to the pain of cut- ting, salicylic acid plaster may be applied until the thickened layer becomes softened and can be removed. The following is a favorite remedy much in vogue: 1$ Acidi salicylici, 3iss;Extr. cannabis ind., gr. x; Collodii, q. s. ad f ^ i. This should be painted on with a brush, three times daily, for one week; the feet should then be soaked in hot water, when the corn can be picked out. Warts.—Although not absolutely proven, it would appear probable that warts were contagious. A very striking example of contagion occurred in Payne’s case; after having removed a wart with his nail, he noticed that subsequently one developed under the nail, and some on the dorsal surface of the thumb. Treatment.—Among other remedies may be mentioned the internal use of Fowler’s solution of arsenic, in the dose of Tfij t. d. for adults and nii for children. Recently sulphate of magnesium has been given, 2 or 3 grains for children, and 3 ss for adults. Crocker thinks that nitromuriatic acid in full doses acts well at times. Condylomata of larger size may be removed with Paquelin’s cautery. Salicylic acid in 1 British Journal of Dermatology, vol. iii., 1891, p. 169.