(829) DISEASES OF THE BREAST. BY MAURICE H. RICHARDSON, M.D., VISITING SURGEON TO THE MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL; ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY, HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL. Our knowledge of diseases of the mammary gland has been extended chiefly in the line of malignant growths, especially carcinomata. The following article is devoted largely, therefore, to the principal advances made in this direction. A few observations of minor importance have been included upon other topics considered in detail by Professor Ann- andale in Vol. V. Where neither additions nor corrections have been made, it will he understood that the authorities of to-day differ in no material respect from those whose views were expressed so ably by the author of the article of 1884. Anatomy of the Breast. ' The boundaries of the breast exceed even the limits previously de- scribed by surgeons and anatomists. The importance of an accurate knowledge of the peripheral extension of the glandular tissue is very great, inasmuch as the modern operation for carcinoma requires the re- moval of the entire gland. For purposes of description, the breast is divided by S. W. Gross ' into quadrants by two lines passing through the nipple, one vertical and one horizontal, intersecting each other at right angles. Stiles2 adds two oblique lines, reaching the circumference of the breast midway be- tween the vertical and horizontal ones. By ascertaining exactly the extremities of these lines, and connecting them, the true boundaries of the breast can be accurately determined. By this method Stiles describes the limits of the breast as follows:— “ The vertical diameter extends from the lower border of the second rib to the sixth costal cartilage at the angle where it begins to sweep upward to the ster- num; the horizontal, from a little within the edge of the sternum opposite the fourth rib or interspace to the fifth rib or interspace opposite the mid-axillary line. The one oblique diameter extends from the upper border of the third cos- tal cartilage a little without the sternum downward and outward to the seventh rib a little in front of the mid-axillary line; the other oblique diameter passes 1 Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, March, 1888. 2 Edinburgh Med. Journal, June and July, 1892.