INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. 682 Hazy cornete are often much benefited by massage with the oint- ment of the yellow oxide of mercury (gr. ss.-i. to 3i. vaseline).1 The rubbing should be systematically performed in every direction with the lid and finger. The improvement is very gradual. Electrolysis has been employed by Alleman and others for leucoma, and they claim with gratifying results. While the cornea is still irritable atropine should be continued, and in not a few cases it will aid greatly in clearing away slight nebulae. For the dense central leucomata, iridectomy when practicable will of course be necessary. The sequelae of ulcerated cornea are hazy spots (nebula and leucoma), synechiae, staphyloma, cataract, panophthalmitis, and destruction of the globe. Small staphylomata are sometimes reduced by bandaging and supporting the weakened parts until they have thoroughly healed. Again the performance of iridectomy will at times cause a subsidence of the swelling. Large staphylomata may be treated by posterior sclerotomy, as advocated by de Wecker. This is performed by drawing the eye downward and inward with the fixation forceps, and with a Graefe knife making an incision through the conjunctiva and sclera, hack of the ciliary body, and between the superior and external recti muscles. The opening may he a little greater than the breadth of the knife, care being taken not to make the incision in the sclera directly under that in the conjunctiva. Immediate improvement must not be expected, as a year or more may elapse before the good effects are seen, and in some cases the operation is of no benefit. Other operators ex- cise the staphyloma in various ways and draw the edges of the wound together with a continuous or interrupted suture. Enucleation is necessary when the protrusion is very great, or evisceration may be preferred. This operation can be done with the e}Te under the influ- ence of cocaine. For its performance a speculum, fixation forceps, scissors, knife, and scoop are necessary. The conjunctiva is loosened about the cornea and with the knife an incision is made through the sclera. The cornea is excised by the scissors or knife, the contents of the globe evacuated, and the inner surface of the sclera is scraped in order that the choroid may be entirely removed. The cavity is cleansed with any antiseptic solution, or, as Prince has suggested, may be wiped out with a solution of carbolic acid to prevent the pain which is usually severe. The edges of the conjunctiva are drawn to- gether by the continuous suture. Considerable reaction follows the operation, and healing is slow. It is claimed that a better stump for an artificial eye is gained in this way, and that hence the operation is preferable to enucleation. Mules has introduced a glass ball into the scleral cavity and closes the sclera over it. This makes a good resting place for the artificial eye, and Mules, with others, speaks highly of the results. Conical Cornea.—This change in shape is due to a thinning at the centre of the cornea, the pathology of which is not understood. It occurs in both eyes, in males and females, at times affects several members of the same family, and in some instances has seemed to be hereditary. The process is slow and can rarely be controlled. Several 1 This ointment is less irritating when the mercury is first rubbed up with a few drops of olive oil, and the ointment then made with vaseline or albolene.