63 WOUND-TREATMENT. If we can bring wound-surfaces into close approximation, if there has been no undue irritation of the same, and if no infection has occurred during the operation, the chances are that the amount of discharge will be very moderate, if any, and that primary union will follow without drainage. Are we able to guarantee this result, with the modern aseptic treatment of wounds, with such certainty, and are the risks we incur in closing all aseptic wounds so slight, that even careful dress- ing some days after operation, to remove drainage-tubes, must be considered a decided disadvantage? .We have seen by what precautions in the preparation for an aseptic operation we may almost to a degree of absolute certainty avoid infec- tion. On the other hand, we know how difficult it is to secure thor- ough disinfection by any other means than by heat, and how true this is, especially of the hands and nails of the operator. Even the most painstaking surgeon will occasionally fall short of ideal asepsis in this regard, and, if infection does not always follow such failure, we must attribute this to the vitality of the body-cells and to other mechanical conditions in wounds, which make them an unfit medium for the development of the germs that have been introduced in small numbers. Still, we believe that even those who have most carefully carried out the treatment without drainage, have occasionally observed wound- infection in a distinct manner. Such accidents may be most surely prevented by thorough asepsis in the first place; in the second place, by avoiding irritation of the wound-surfaces. This is accomplished by clean surgical work, and by abstaining from irrigation with antiseptic fluids. The latter is entirely unnecessary when asepsis has been efficiently carried out during an operation, and it is safe to say that the surgeon who achieves better results by the use of antiseptic irrigation than w ithout the latter, is not a master in this form of wound-treatment. When irrigation of aseptic wounds becomes necessary to wash out blood-clots or bone chips, for example, this is best done with a physiological salt solution (7-1000), which ought to be boiled before use. It is more for their irri- tating than their poisonous qualities that antiseptics are unsuitable for irrigating purposes. Whenever strong carbolic or sublimate solutions are brought in contact with wound-surfaces, necrosis of the superficial cell-layers follows, and, although this may not become immediately apparent, it cannot but interfere with primary union. The dangers of intoxication with carbolic acid and corrosive sublimate are not as great as they have been said to be by some writers. It is astonishing, at least, that, if real, they should never have been observed by many who in former years used these antiseptics extensively for irrigating purposes. Some surgeons prefer not to irrigate at all, and their results are as good, apparently, as those obtained by others. When once properly disinfected, not a drop of fluid is brought in contact with the field of operation after the first incision has been made. While the surgeon is engaged at one part of the wound, the remainder is covered with gauze, and thus hemorrhage is controlled without ligatures at the time, but eventually, before suturing, the larger vessels are tied. The wound- cavity is then once more firmly packed with gauze for several moments. When this is finally removed the wound will be perfectly dry, and very large surfaces can then be united, using if necessary buried sutures,