469 SYPHILIS OF THE BONES. syphilis, and so infrequently in other disorders of the hones, that their presence leads properly to the suspicion that syphilis is present. True syphilis of the bones, with distinct lesions, is, as stated above, a manifestation of the later stages of the disease. The lesion character- istic of this form of osteitis is the gumma. Such a lesion, forming under the periosteum, its most common seat, gives rise to an inflam- mation in which the neighboring tissue is involved. There is usually a viscid, serous effusion between the hone and the periosteum, which elevates the latter in a half-fusiform swelling, highest at or near the Fig. 1625. Gummatous (Syphilitic) Osteomyelitis of Tibia. Partial ossification of medulla; rarefaction of new bone tissue. (Gangolphe.) middle, and gradually subsiding toward the ends. This is firmly at- tached to the bone, of course, while over it the skin is at first movable. It is usually tense, but sometimes yields to pressure. This is what is called a node. Such a node may be absorbed and disappear, under ap- propriate treatment, or it may break down and ulcerate, giving rise to a syphilitic ulcer. In the substance of the bone, gummata give rise to an irritation in which a large part of the bone or the whole bone may be affected, to- gether with the surrounding tissues. The characteristic of syphilitic os- teitis is that the medullary cavity is often enlarged, and the surrounding bone eburnated or porous, with a total absence of true suppuration or necrosis; a sequestrum may be said almost never to be formed. On sec- tion, a bone showing the characteristic lesions of syphilis presents an eburnated cortical layer, a rarefied or excavated medullary region, with erosions of the walls due to caries—molecular disintegration. (See Fig. Fig. 1626. Gummatous (Syphilitic) Osteomyelitis of Tibia. Extensive erosion of compact layer. 1625 and Fig. 1626.) This is the process usually found in the long bones. In flat hones perforations occur, surrounded often by eburnation, due to condensing osteitis. In the skull, these perforations occur most fre- quently in the frontal bone; and it is a curious fact that the vitreous table resists for a long time the tendency to perforation. Similar per- forations take place in the scapula. In the fingers a form of inflammation occurs which produces a swell- ing like that of tuberculosis, called spina ventosa.