264 TUMORS. of the ducts of the gland, and may occur in any histological variety of growth; hut it is important to distinguish between the cystic and solid tumors on account of certain clinical differences between them. Sarcoma of the breast is a decidedly malignant form of tumor, al- though less rapid in its course, and less apt to attack the surrounding parts, than carcinoma. Of Poulsen’s 33 cases, 4 had a duration before operation of one month, 15 from one to twelve months, 2 each for two and three years, 4 from five to eight years, 3 of ten years, 1 of seven- teen years, and 2 actually of forty years. In cases with this very long history it is usual to find that the tumor has existed as a small, indo- lent, quiescent, or slowly increasing growth, for a long time, and that it has suddenly become more threatening, assuming a totally differ- ent character. In these cases, too, the tumors are generally found to be cystic, and the size is suddenly increased by rapid effusion, or by growth of solid contents; or the tumor may be found to be telangeiec- tatic, and perhaps the seat of hemorrhages. Gross approves the opin- ion advanced by some that in such cases the tumor has been origi- nally a fibroma, the occurrence of sarcomatous change explaining the sudden increase in growth. In rapidly growing tumors he has noted an increased, local temperature, as shown by the surface thermometer. The evidences of local infection are much less marked than in carci- noma. The nipple is seldom retracted—in only 2 of Poulsen’s cases, and in only 5 of Gross’s—and the latter adds the statement that all of these were of the cystic variety. Adhesion to the surrounding parts is also comparatively rare, deep adhesions being found in only 7 cases of Gross’s collection, and cutaneous adhesions in only 15. Poulsen, how- ever, found adhesion to the skin in over one-third of his cases. Ulcer- ation of the skin occurs seldom, and usually from pressure of large tumors causing local necrosis; Gross says that it occurs in about one- fifth of the cases. The axillary glands are sometimes enlarged, but seldom diseased. Poulsen, however, found them involved in 15 per cent, of his cases, decidedly more frequently than has generally been acknowledged. Pain was present in more than one-third of the cases, but in less than three per cent, was felt before the tumor was noticed. A discharge of blood or serum took place from the nipple in about one-tenth of the cystic cases. Gross declares emphatically that age has no effect upon the malignity of the tumors, which are not more rapid in their course in the young than in the old. The prognosis, however, is influenced by the rate at which the tumors have grown before the operation. He finds that cystic tumors grow more rapidly, and are more likely to re- turn and to have metastases, but Poulsen takes quite the opposite side of this question. Poulsen found that in 14 cases of the cystic form, operated upon, 75 per cent, of the patients remained well for five years or longer, including 2 who had a second operation for recurrence, and 1 from whom infected glands had been removed when the breast was excised. In 18 cases of operation for solid sarcomata, Poulsen found seven recurrences, and only 58 per cent, of the patients remained well for four years or more, including four on whom two operations were performed. This difference is explicable only on the supposition that the pathological views of the two authors differ. Gross found that in 91 cases operated on, the histories of which were subsequently traced,