696 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. retinitis, besides hemorrhages and the changes in the blood-vessels, there are often loss of transparency, changes in the papilla, atrophy, in- creased or diminished vision, change of field, pain, and photophobia. The prognosis is generally unfavorable on account of the connection with grave constitutional disease, and in most instances both eyes are affected. Embolism of the Central Retinal Artery.—This occurs in elderly persons who have heart disease and atheromatous vessels. The onset is sudden, painless, and frequently occurs at night, or while making some exertion, such as stooping. Vision is quickly lost, and only in rare cases is regained by the plug being carried further on into one of the arterial branches. The ophthalmoscope shows the retinal vessels empty, or nearly so, with frequently interrupted or beaded currents. A foggy halo surrounds the disk and macular region, while in the centre of the latter is seen the characteristic “ cherry red spot” due to the choroid showing through the layer of rods and cones. Massage and para- centesis of the anterior chamber may be tried with the hope of moving the plug, but treatment is of little use and atrophy soon follows. Detachment of the Retina.—This is a serious and tolerably fre- quent occurrence in affections of the eye. It is usually situated in the lower portion of the fundus, is more common in men than women, and is seen oftenest in myopic eyes. The separation takes place between the nerve and pigment layers, the latter adhering to the choroid, and between them is a yellow serous fluid. The researches of Leber and Nordensen have pretty well proved that when not traumatic it is caused by a fibrillar shrinking of the anterior portion of the vitreous, causing first a rent in the retina, through which fluid enters and pro- duces detachment. The edges of the rent are always turned toward the vitreous, and can at times be seen by aid of the ophthalmoscope. The subjective symptoms are impairment or entire loss of vision, meta- morphopsia, and night-blindness; and these may be preceded by rays, flashes, and muscse volitantes. The field of vision is also imperfect. The objective symptoms are at times difficult to make out, on account of the hazy vitreous, but are altered color and depth of the fundus, this being gray or bluish, and the vessels which cross over it being darker than normal. It is not focussed by the same glass as the other portions of the fundus, and the parallactic movements of the vessels over the fundus prove a difference in depth. The detached por- tion is at times pushed so far forward that it can be seen through the pupil without a glass. Treatment is unsatisfactory. Probably as much benefit has been de- rived from placing the patient flat upon his back in bed and injecting pilocarpine hypodermically, as from any other method. Iodide of potas- sium may also be employed. Schoeler’s method of injecting tincture of iodine (3 drops) near the point of rupture, thereby producing irrita- tion that might cause re-adhesion, has not been satisfactory. Diseases of the Optic Nerve.—The normal optic papilla is nearly round or oval in form, with distinct edges, showing at times the white and glistening border of the sclera, and usually some choroidal pig-