650 INJURIES OF THE BACK. hope of obtaining primary union. That failing, or in cases in which there is reason to think that the bullet or fragments of the vertebrae have lodged in the spinal canal and are pressing upon the cord, the wound should be freely enlarged to give ready access to the bone and permit the removal of such fragments or of the bullet if present. Such treatment may not lead to the repair of a divided or crushed cord, but it may save one that has only been compressed from permanent degenera- tion, and it will diminish the risks incident to the period of repair. Concussion op the Spine, and Remote Effects of Spinal Injuries —“Railway Spine.” As was stated in the note added by the editor to Dr. Lidell’s article in Vol. IV., that article was written before the publication of Mr. Page’s important book upon the same subjects, and consequently be- fore the marked change in current professional opinion concerning them which followed that publication. The reaction from Mr. Ericli- sen's extreme views, which wTas anticipated from the beginning by many who appreciated the speculative character of the basis upon which they rested, has gone on to an almost total overthrow, and has practically removed the subject from the domain of the surgeon to that of the neurologist. Among the earliest of those who suggested the hysterical or neurasthenic character of the symptoms attributed to structural injuries of the cord, may be mentioned Drs. Putnam and Walton, who published papers in the Boston Medical and Surgical Jour- nal and in the Archives of Medicine, in 1883. Of the work done by surgeons, by far the most important is to be found in Page’s book already mentioned; and in Thorburn's “ Contribution to the Surgery of the Spinal Cord,” published in 1889. Of late many neurologists have studied the subject, with more or less detail and with more or less dif- ference of opinion—Charcot, Oppenheim, Thomsen, Klein, Brissaud, and Grasset. Those who are interested in the subject will find a full bibliography up to date in Thorburn’s book, and some later references in the writings of Charcot1 and Brissaud.2 The belief in the alleged nosological entity termed “concussion of the spinal cord” appears to have little or no other support than an argu- ment by analogy from “concussion of the brain,” and on examination it is evident that the analogy is not close. It is now very generally held that in concussion of the brain there are recognizable structural lesions which may properly be regarded as slight forms of contusion, lesions consisting mainly in rupture of small vessels, with consequent extravasation of blood, and apparently produced sudden movement of the cerebro-spinal liquid occasioned by abrupt temporary change in the shape of the skull, or by shifting of the cerebral mass within it. The physical conditions which favor the production of such lesions in such a manner within the skull, are not found in the spine. The cord is much more perfectly protected than the brain against movements within its bony case, and the waves of the liquid within the skull have no counterpart within the spine. In cases of extreme violence to the skull and brain, the wave has sometimes been traced down the central 1 (Euvres, tome iii., 1890 2 Gaz. des Hopitaux, 23 Nov., 1889.