STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 955 The operation of dilating internal urethrotomy is one requiring nicety and precision of work. It should he limited to strictures occurring not deeper than the fore part of the bulb of the urethra. The patient should receive both general and local preparation for the operation, and antiseptic precautions should be followed out, as will be detailed in the section on Urinary Fever. The procedure is usually not so painful as to require general anaesthesia, this being necessary only when several dense, unyielding strictures are to be cut, or in cases of extremely nervous individuals. Ordinarily cocaine anaesthesia will suffice. A small amount of a four-per-cent, or five-per-cent, solution may be in- jected into the urethra as far as the seat of stricture, or may be con- veniently applied by means of an applicator through a urethral tube introduced down to the same point. The stricture being cut, and its thorough division assured by the easy passage and withdrawal of the expanded uretlirometer, or of a bulbous explorer of the ascertained normal calibre of the urethra, a full-sized sound should be passed, and afterward the urethra should be irrigated with boric-acid solution, a soft-rubber catheter should be inserted, and the bladder should be evacuated and then washed out with the same solution. The catheter may be left in the bladder for twenty-four hours subsequently. A practical hint of some value is not to expand the urethrotome to the full capacity of the urethra before division of the stricture. If this be done, the incision may extend into the peri-urethral tissues, and give rise to troublesome hemorrhage. The incision should be made, as a rule, in the roof of the canal, and with the instrument expanded to a size 2 or 3 mm. less than the normal calibre of the urethra. An an- noying sequel of the operation occasionally, though fortunately rarely, met with—viz., incurvation of the penis—may also be avoided by observ- ing this suggestion. All that is intended by the operation is to com- pletely divide the tissues of the stricture itself, and the cut should be no deeper than necessary to accomplish this. The patient should be confined to his bed or his room for a few days, after which he may with care resume his daily avocations. At the same time, the passage of the full-sized sound should be begun, and repeated every third or fourth day, and afterward at longer intervals, until its use can be finally abandoned. Performed with the precautions above indicated, and limiting the operation to strictures occurring in the first five or five and a half inches of the urethra, the amount of risk attending it, in a healthy individual, is very slight, in fact almost insignificant. Otis says1 “I am able to state with confidence that complete division of all strictures anterior to the bulbous urethra (i.e., from five to six inches), by dilating internal urethrotomy properly performed, is one of the simplest and safest of all surgical operations.” Suture of the Urethra after External Urethrotomy.—This proceeding has been employed with success in several cases reported by A. Marmaduke Shield 3 and A. P. Gould.3 The steps of the operation as described by Shield are: After careful 1 Loc. cit., p. 278. 2 Lancet, 1888, vol. ii., p. 760. 3 Med. Press and Circ., London, 1894, p. 633.