WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 813 packing it firmly with sterilized ganze. If closed by sutures, concealed hemorrhage into the chest is liable to continue. The great vessels of the thorax may be injured in cases of penetrat- ing wound, and as a rule accidents of this kind are often more rapidly fatal than lesions of the heart itself. The thoracic duct may be injured as the result of deep penetrating wounds. A case has recently come' to my notice in which the duct was wounded in the removal of some deep cervical glands. If the wound is within the chest, large quantities of a milk-like fluid will be poured into the pleural cavity during the process of digestion, until the sac becomes quite distended with chyle. The prognosis in these cases is most unfavorable, as starvation is inevitable. In the case above referred to rapid emaciation ensued. The diaphragm may be injured in a variety of ways; thus it may be ruptured by extreme compression, punctured by stabs or gunshot wounds, or torn by fragments of ribs after fracture. Frequently some of the neighboring viscera may be injured, or some of the abdominal contents may he squeezed up through the opening into the thorax, causing great pain and dyspnoea and giving rise to a diaphragmatic hernia; if the rent be small, immediate strangulation may result. Treatment of Penetrating Wounds of the Chest. — This depends upon their character and extent. In grave cases, as of wounds of the large vessels, which are nearly always rapidly fatal, surgery has but little to offer. Where the danger is not so immediate, the surgeon is warranted by the persistence of hemorrhage in seeking for the bleeding point, enlarging the wound, and if needful even resecting several ribs. When the bleeding is from the interned mammary artery, a strong silken liga- ture should be carried around the vessel with a curved needle, and all the tissues, including the artery, should he flrmly grasped within its loop. The intercostal vessels are seldom the seat of much hemorrhage, provided that they are cut across and can retract into their sheaths. If partially severed or punctured, the opening in the vessel will remain patulous and troublesome bleeding may result, requiring a ligature which if necessary may he carried around the adjoining rib. External hemor- rhage is much better controlled by plugging with gauze than by closing the wound with sutures, which might be followed by concealed bleeding. It is important to remember that needless exploration with the probe, especially in gunshot wounds, should be avoided, as little can be thus learned which could not otherwise be ascertained, while by probing blood-clots are broken up and septic material may he introduced. The control of hemorrhage, the thorough cleansing and disinfection of the wound, and immobilizing the chest-walls, must be carefully attended to. The judicious administration of opium and diffusible stimulants is commonly indicated, and the wound must be carefully dressed with antiseptic precautions. The amount of destruction which may follow what appear to be simple wounds will be illustrated by the following case: T. S. was admitted to the Pennsylvania Hospital with a pistol-shot wound, 32 calibre, of the lower chest, the ball entering between the eighth and ninth ribs in the anterior axillary line. The patient suffered from shock, but lived twenty hours. Post-mortem examination revealed the track of the ball as follows: En- tering at the left interspace between the eighth and ninth ribs, it had pierced