217 ETIOLOGY. sion to refer hereafter to certain cases which have been considered by some to be instances of direct contagion, but, as we shall see, they are all explicable as examples of the grafting of cells and tissues, and are therefore of no value in deciding the present question. It must be remembered, too, that the coccidia, like many other animal parasites, have a stage in which they exist outside of their host, and therefore the first victim does not communicate the disease directly to the next. It may indeed be necessary for the parasite to pass through an inter- mediate host like many other organisms of this kind. Such objections as these, therefore, do not settle the question of the parasitic origin of cancer adversely. It is to be hoped, however, that in the future some inoculation experiments may succeed, for without them there could scarcely be any absolute proof that the newly discovered body, or any ofher body proven to be a parasite, which was demonstrated in malig- nant tumors, was really the cause of their growth, for it might be only an accidental accompaniment of the neoplasms. But there are other more serious objections. In the first place it must be remembered that the complicated modern methods of histo- logical study which have brought to our knowledge these new objects, have not yet been sufficiently employed in the examination of normal epithelium, and before deciding upon the nature of these recently dis- covered bodies in the abnormal cells of neoplasms, we should ascertain all the peculiarities of the normal cell when examined in the same thorough manner. A very strong objection to the attempt to construct a parallel be- tween carcinoma and coccidiosis, as it appears in the lower animals, is the fact that the latter disease lacks completely the peculiar mode of general infection by secondary deposits by way of the lymphatics and blood-vessels, which is so invariable and characteristic a feature of malignant tumors. The suggestion of some that this could be explained by the supposition that carcinoma was produced by a different variety of coccidium, is, to say the least, an unsatisfactory answer. When we reflect that the secondary tumors of malignant growths, no matter where situated—whether in lymphatics, in glands of totally different structure, or in the bones themselves—preserve the histologi- cal arrangement of the gland in which the primary tumor appeared, it is still more difficult to comprehend how any parasite could exert such a complicated and far-reaching influence. To accomplish this result we must assume that the parasite has the power of causing a vigorous growth of epithelial cells, not only making them multiply in their orig- inal situation, but causing them to grow in any new locality whither they may be transported by lymphatic or blood-currents, and that it also has the power of making this growth in both situations reproduce the normal structure of the gland from which the cells originated. One might grant that a parasite, being carried with the cell to its new habitat, could cause the cell to increase and multiply there, and one might assume that a cell from the mucous membrane of the stomach, finding itself in the liver, would still multiply in such a way as to rep- resent the epithelial parts of the gland from which it came; but what influence causes the growth of connective tissue around the new epi- thelial cells, so as to reproduce the stroma and connective-tissue enve- lopes just as they existed in the stomach glands? .