INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. JOHN B. DEAVER, M.D., ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF APPLIED ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; SURGEON TO THE PHILADELPHIA HOSPITAL, TO THE GERMAN HOSPITAL, TO ST. AGNES’S HOSPITAL, ETC., PHILADELPHIA. Traumatic Lesions of Nerves. Dislocation of Nerves.—This is a form of injury that is occasionally encountered. The ulnar nerve has been found displaced from its nor- mal position at the elbow after certain violent movements, as in fenc- ing ; loose connections of the nerve, small size of the internal condyle of the humerus, and marked prominence of the internal lateral liga- ment predispose to the occurrence of this accident, according to Zuck- erkandl. It may also follow fractures of the internal condyle. Dislo- cation of the peroneal nerve in fractures of the head of the fibula has been seen. The subjective symptoms consist in pain, and motor and sensory disturbances. The treatment would be to replace the nerve, place the limb at rest in the proper position, and, if need be, apply anodynes. For habitual luxation of the ulnar nerve, Kolliker advises deepening of the groove wherein it lies, and suturing the parts; cicatri- cial contraction would tend to retain the nerve in its place. Phenomena Consecutive to Injuries of Nerves. Regeneration of Nerves.—Benecke, Gluck, Backowetzki, and others believe that the nuclei of the primitive sheath of the nerve forms the new axis cylinder, basing their views upon experiments on lower animals. Bowlby 1 coincides with this view, and has observed this mode of reproduction of the axis-cylinders in pieces taken from the peripheral portions of divided human nerves; he also says that “the peripheral end may become regenerated without forming any union with the proximal extremity, but that it again tends to degen- erate if union fails.” Tli. Kolliker2 absolutely denies that any other elements besides the axis-cylinder itself (that is, its proximal portion) have anything to do with the regeneration of this tissue, which is an outgrowth from the epiblastic ganglion cells. 1 Injuries and Diseases of Nerves. 2 Die Verletzungen u. Erkrank. der peripli. Nerven.