790 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. especially disturbance of the respiration, have been ascribed to its presence. According to Luschka, adenoid tissue is always present in the vault of the pharynx. It is apparent at the earliest age, and lias been said to be congenital. During childhood it has a tendency to hyperplasia and growth, so that at times it becomes a pathological tissue. Luschka describes it as extending across the vault of the pharynx, between the fossae of Rosenmuller. The hypertrophied mass is found most fre- quently in the back and upper part of the vault. It may consist of simply a fringe-like mass projecting downward, located at the top of the vault of the pharynx, or it may fill the greater part with a hard, solid growth. Most commonly this mass is composed almost entirely of lymphoid tissue, with a minimum amount of connective tissue. In some cases, however, the connective tissue is more developed, and we find the mass presenting the dense, hard appearance of fibrous tissue. As a rule, however, the tumor is soft and friable, especially in young children. In adults I have seen a hard, smooth mass occupying the upper part of the vault which seemed to be formed of well-developed fibrous tissue. The growth of lymphoid tissue assumes its greatest proportions dur- ing the years of childhood, and there is a notable tendency to retrogres- sion or disappearance after the tenth year, and between the fifteenth and twentieth years. At least it is not found as a lymphoid growth, and in some cases, where the development of fibrous tissue is excessive, we find a disappearance of the lymphoid tissue, but the fibrous growth remains, and this may continue indefinitely. In growths, however, in which the connective tissue is imperfectly developed, the whole mass may disappear between the tenth and the fifteenth year. The lymphoid growth in this respect repeats the his- tory which we so often see in the faucial tonsil. In some individuals the disappearance of the adenoid tissue takes place sooner than in others. This subsidence of lymphoid hypertrophy has been called an atrophy, but I should rather consider it an absorption or retrogression. Many causes have been assigned by writers for the development of this lymphoid hypertrophy. Some have claimed that it is due to improper sanitary surroundings, while others attribute it to malnutrition and imperfect assimilation. I cannot agree with either of these propo- sitions. Most of the cases which have come under my observation have been in children whose surroundings from a hygienic point of view have been good, and whose general physique has been that of good health, save as it may have been modified by the mechanical obstruc- tion of the growth itself. I would rather ascribe its occurrence simply to the tendency which is generally acknowledged to be present in child- hood to growth and hyperplasia of lymphoid tissue. Usually this hy- pertrophy is not confined to the vault alone, but may in some cases be found involving the faucial tonsil to a greater or less degree. Al- though the constitutional condition known as struma develops a special tendency to hypertrophy of the lymphoid structures, still in the major- ity of these cases we fail to find the other and varied manifestations of this condition, and hence I cannot strictly connect the lymphoid hy- pertrophy with the strumous diathesis, but would rather ascribe it to the special tendency in the years of childhood to lymphoid hyperplasia,