INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 996 cient clinical or pathological peculiarities to justify them occupying separate classes. The remaining sarcomata, including what have usually been termed carcinomata, are noted for one great peculiarity, and that is their heterogeneousness of structure. This has been re- sponsible for the many names which have been suggested for them. They are subject to changes and degenerations. Thus myxomatous changes affect the fibrous structures, sometimes to so great an extent as to cause these growths to be designated as myxomatous tumors when in reality they are sarcomatous. Cartilaginous changes occur, and they have then been termed chondromas. Mr. Sutton states that one- half of the sarcomas have cartilage developed in them. Mr. Eve found it in eleven out of sixteen cases of cystic sarcoma, and Mr. Butlin in eight out of thirteen cases of spindle-celled sarcoma and in one out of six of the mixed sarcomata. For the sake of convenience, three kinds may be recognized: they are the round-celled, the spindle-celled, and the mixed varieties. When the round-celled growth predominates it is termed a round- celled sarcoma. When the spindle-celled growth is most plentiful the tumor is designated accordingly. The mixed forms are made up most largely of those tumors in which the form of the cell is not distinct enough to entitle it to separate classification, or in which from the alveolar arrangement of the matrix a certain resemblance to carcinoma is present. The general clinical characters of these tumors have already been sufficiently described by Mr. Bell under the heading of carcinoma and sarcoma, but a few peculiarities may be here noted. In their manifesta- tions they are often widely different, some being hard and others soft, some rapid in growth and others slower, some large and others small. The same relation of size and malignancy obtains here as exists else- where between the round-celled and spindle-celled varieties. The for- mer are the more malignant and rapid in growth, and are more liable to cause metastatic deposits and to affect both testes, either simulta- neously or at intervals. The spindle-celled variety is apt to be smaller, harder, and slower in growth, and is less likely to give rise to metas- tasis or to recur after removal. It usually attacks only a single testi- cle, and is very liable, as already mentioned, to be the subject of carti- laginous as well as of cystic, and sometimes of myxomatous changes. The mixed variety embraces those cases in which the round-celled and spindle-celled elements are both prominent, and particularly those in which the more or less heterogeneous cells are included to a great ex- tent in alveoli of more or less fully developed or embryonic fibroid tissue. It is this appearance and formation which has caused them to be called sarcoma alveolare and sarcoma carcinomatosum. The cells contained in the alveoli are not the typical epithelial cells of true carcinoma, but resemble more the lymphoid cells of a connective-tissue type, from which fact Dr. Formad 1 was induced to regard them as endothelial in origin and therefore sarcomatous in nature. He expressly stated his disbelief in the existence of a true carcinoma of the testicle, as well as of the ovary and kidney. All these varieties of sarcoma are at times cystic. The cysts found in those that are undoubtedly malignant are lined with epithelium 1 Trans. Path. Society of Philada., 1886, p. 223.