673 THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. Transplantation of the conjunctiva of the rabbit has been successfully accomplished in several cases when extensive adhesions have existed. The flap should be larger than the denuded surface and free from subcu- taneous tissue, and the sutures should be inserted before its removal from the rabbit. It should be kept warm and moist. Flaps of mucous membrane may also be taken from the lip of the patient. All bleeding must be stopped before the flaps are applied. Blepharitis.—This disease is at times very obstinate, and the remedies commonly used may fail to produce any change for the better. It is well to remember that the cause may be constitutional, and other than scrofulous, and therefore it is necessary to study closely the general condition of the patient. Syphilis is not an infrequent cause of the inflammation, and especially in this form are the roots of the ciliae diseased. The diseased cilise are readily recognized by their bulbs being black instead of white, which is due to the diseased condition of the lid margin. The inflammation at times causes swelling of the entire lid, and may extend to the ocular conjunctiva. The inflammation in some cases partakes of the nature of eczema or other skin disease, and is then very difficult to manage. The general treatment of blepharitis is thoroughly outlined in the article of Dr. Williams. In obstinate cases we should always suspect syphilis, and they may be treated accordingly with mercury and iodide of potassium. It may be necessary to give the latter in large and in- creasing doses, especially when the condition has lasted a long time and the lids are very much thickened by infiltration. In those cases that partake of the nature of skin disease the internal use of arsenic may be followed by good results, and much benefit may be derived from the use of an ointment of aristol (gr. xv. to vaseline gr. lxxviii.). This should be applied to the margins of the lids, once or twice a day, after the usual cleansing of the parts. Some cases of blepharitis are due to refractive errors and are cured by the use of proper glasses. The Lachrymal Apparatus. Inflammation of the Lachrymal Gland.—This is rather rare, but occurs in both an acute and a chronic form. The acute is more fre- quent among children and is generally caused by trauma. The chronic form is at times bilateral and then is usually of syphilitic origin. The symptoms of inflammation of the lachrymal gland are swelling of the lid, partial ptosis, displacement of the ball downward and inward, and pain. Sometimes an abscess forms and breaks through the lid, leav- ing a fistula that is difficult to close. This condition may be con- genital. The gland in some cases is simply hypertrophied. Abscesses are of course treated according to general principles. Malignant Tumors of the Lachrymal Gland.—These are sar- comata and carcinomata, and they cannot always be distinguished in the beginning from simple hypertrophy. _ The treatment for malignant growths is early and thorough excision, care being taken not to cut the levator palpebrae muscle. vol. vii.—43