38 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. from an excavation beginning at its base, into which the blood, circulat- ing in the original vessel, immediately penetrates, assisting by its pres- sure in the canalization of the entire arch. The greater part of granulation tissue is finally transformed into con- nective tissue, known as cicatricial tissue, but when embryonic cells enter into the formation of granula- tions which are derived from other tissues than connective tissue, they wrill produce tissues similar to those of which they are the offspring. Thus osteoblasts will produce bone, myoblasts muscle fibres. The leuco- cytes in granulating surfaces are either discharged as pus, or disappear after having been absorbed by other cells in active proliferation. From all appearances this process of ab- sorption of one cell by another (phagocytosis) must be viewed in the light of an act of nutrition, as whole leucocytes as well as fragments of their nuclei and protoplasm are found in the embryonic cells before and after cell-division has taken place. (Fig. 1558.) When after karyokinetic division of the nucleus the protoplasm of the cell does not divide, giant-cell formation is the result. The giant cells are found in small numbers in healthy, more frequently in tuber- cular and syphilitic granulations. Healing of Wounds in Special Tissues.—Epithelium.—In granu- lating surfaces that have reached the level of the surrounding external tissues, the regeneration of the epithelial covering starts in from the border of the wound, or from isolated patches of epithelium lying on the granulating surfaces. All the karyokinetic changes previously described are observed in the cells undergoing division at the border line between epithelium and granulations, and a film of new epithelial cells finally spreads over the entire wound-surface. Not only surface epithe- lia, but also the epithelial covering of the intestinal tract and other glandular epithelia show7 a marked tendency to regenerate under favor- able conditions. It has been demonstrated experimentally that defects in the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines will heal very quickly, and will finally receive a new epithelial layer in which even the secreting glands have been reproduced to a greater or less extent. In this case, when healing has been rapid, it may be impossible to dis- tinguish the site of a previous ulcer; but where wound-surfaces in the intestinal tract have been granulating for some time, and more connec- tive tissue has in consequence been produced, the cicatrix may readily be recognized and may have led to serious functional disturbance dur- ing life. In the kidneys and liver, the glandular epithelium when lost is rapidly reproduced, provided the lesion has affected the epithelium only. On the other hand, a large loss of substance in these organs is repaired by the development of cicatricial tissue, into which a more or less perfect budding of new glands may take place from the intact glandular epithelium of the neighborhood. Muscles.—The power of reproduction in striped and unstriped mus- Fig. 1558. Phagocytosis. Embryonic cells containing ■ leucocytes, etc.