254 TUMORS. the ulna is more commonly affected than the radius, and the fibula than the tibia. The tumors are more common on the left than on the right side of the body. To Volkmann must be given the credit of having first noticed the association of multiple exostoses with lack of growth of the bones. Reulos reports a family with a remarkable history of these growths, already referred to in discussing the question of hered- ity, and Seidel, Bonde, and Rubinstein report similar cases. Rubinstein denies the truth of the law announced by Bessel-Hagen, that the de- fective growth is proportionate to the number and size of the tumors, and also notes that in his case one of the original neoplasms still remained at the epiphyseal line, instead of being carried farther up the shaft in the lapse of time. In Seidel’s case, from Volkmann's clinic, a large osteoma had fused together the radius and ulna near the wrist, and, owing to the defective growth of the ulna, the radius had outgrown it to such an extent that at both ends it projected beyond its companion, the head of the radius being actually dislocated upon the humerus. Bonde recommends operation in these cases by local extirpation of the growths, claiming that if the base is thoroughly gouged out the tumors will not return, and that amputation can thus be avoided. Among the rarities of bony tumors, Trelat reports two cases of sub- periosteal osteoma of the lower jaw, one in a boy eight years of age, the other in a man. The tumors were strictly limited, of healthy cancel- lous new bone, and growing slowly without any signs of inflammation, although one was painful. Weinlechner reports an osteoma the size of a chestnut which grew from the outer surface of the mastoid process in a woman. A very great rarity is the case of osteo-chondroma of the mamma reported by Lesser. It had a typical spongy bone structure, with trabeculae, and some cartilaginous but no other tissue, and occurred in the breast of a woman sixty-seven years of age, where it had been growing for sixteen years and had attained the size of a man’s fist. Although cartilaginous and even bony spots are not uncommon in tumors of the breast, especially in the sarcomata, and although chon- droma of the mamma is a common tumor in the female dog. Cooper’s case of chondroma of the breast in a woman is the only instance of a tumor at all parallel to this. Numerous cases of osteoma of the various nasal and frontal cavities have been added of late to those already reported, and Fenger adds one to the list of cases in which such a tumor had become necrotic. The prognosis of operations undertaken for the removal of these formidable tumors is constantly improving, all the recently recorded cases having ended in recovery. Myxoma. If we except the ordinary nasal and aural polypi, true myxoma ap- pears to be one of the rarest of tumors, Gurlt finding only four cases in his collection of nearly seventeen thousand. Williams appears to have been more successful, giving a list of twenty-nine, of which eight oc- curred in the thigh and groin, and four each in the mamma and paro- tid, the rest being perinephric, or occurring in the testicle, palate, naso- pharynx, neck, finger, nose, arm, etc. Perhaps the English are not