444 DISEASES OF BONES. tractions, and comparatively little wasting of the limb. An interesting example of the appearance of a child who has suffered with infantile paralysis is seen in the accompanying illustration, taken from a paper read by Dr. De Forest Willard before the American Orthopaedic Asso- ciation in 1891. (Fig. 1613.) Another is furnished by the same author, showing general distortion, including curvature of the spine—lordosis. The patient, a hoy, could not rise, but was compelled to lie on the floor or bed, and had extreme flexion of the thighs and knees, with talipes of both feet. (Fig. 1614.) II. Osteitis in Locomotor Ataxia.—In locomotor ataxia, spontane- ous fractures of bones often occur. These are dependent upon a form of osteoporosis, which results from the nervous disorder present, and of which the bone disease is usually regarded as simply a manifestation. The bones in such cases are spongy and friable, as seen in a case de- scribed by Ricliet, in which a man broke his femur while pulling off his boots. Voisin speaks of a man who in four months broke, without appreciable cause, his clavicle, and both bones of the leg at the upper third. Hagen recorded in 1876 an observation of three successive frac- tures of the same bone. Blanchard found in bones of this sort the lesions of rarefying osteitis. According to Charcot, this form of bone disease is dependent upon disease of the medulla spinalis, and especially of the anterior horns, in both infantile paralysis and progressive muscular atrophy, and in the osteo-arthropathies of the tabetic. He thinks also that the spinal ganglia may be affected in such cases. Westphal and Seeligniiiller attribute only a moderate importance to disease of the medulla, but think that the nerve lesion is situated rather in the part close to the origin of the pneumogastric nerves. It has been noted that osteo-arthropathies sometimes follow lesions of peripheral nerves, and lesions which injure a nerve rather than those which completely divide it. Injury to a nerve-centre or to a nerve re- sults in an interference with the normal progress of nutrition in the bones, and in a deposit of fat in place of healthy osteoblasts—a process analogous to the fatty degeneration which takes place in muscular fibres. In brief, the change is one of osteoporosis, which is fully de- scribed in the articles of Ollier, Vincent, and Poncet, in Vol. III. Attempts to produce by means of experiment such results as are seen in ataxia have failed, although simple atrophy has been brought about; and this corresponds to clinical experience, there being very rarely any change in the bones observed after an accidental division of a nerve. III. Acromegaly has recently received considerable study, without much increase of knowledge in regard to its nature, although new cases are nowadays frequently recorded. It was first described by Marie, although its occurrence seems to have been noted by Saucerotte in the last century. In this disorder, which is probably to be classed with nervous disorders, there are many manifestations of disturbance of a psychical or nervous sort, accompanying enlargement of the bones and the overlying tissues, especially of the hands, feet, and face. IV. Rachitis.—The subject of rachitis has been so thoroughly treated elsewhere in the Encyclopaedia that not much remains to be said about it.