566 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Attention to the bowels, and the use of the cold-water coil or ice-bag for headache, high temperature, or incipient encephalitis, may also be requisite. While I have never seen anything but good done by low diet and local bleeding with the internal use of calomel, and while I believe that thereby in many cases incipient stasis in the cerebral vessels of the inflamed area is obviated, thus preventing the accu- mulation of germs which overcome the resistance of the tissues, yet the injudicious use of such means may be prejudicial to the pa- tient. Knowing as we do that diffused (septic) meningitis with open wounds results from infection through the wound, or by germs in the circulation—harmless while few in number, yet capable of fatal mis- chief if allowed to accumulate at any point—I cannot but think that, in injuries where no external invasion atrium exists, the mechanism of in- tracranial suppuration is that which I have given, and that the therapeu- sis suggested is the proper one. If this be true, suppuration cannot be induced by the lowered resistance of the tissues induced by a few days’ diminution of nutriment, while this may, and often does, in conjunc- tion with the use of the drugs mentioned,1 prevent such a slowing or stasis of the cerebral circulation as might admit of the accumulation of germs in dangerous numbers at the injured point. It is quite probable also that intestinal sepsis is obviated by such a germicidal substance as calomel, and while unproved, it is possible that the prolonged em- ployment of mercury may inhibit the development of germs in the circulating fluid, thus explaining the clinical fact that this drug exercises a beneficial influence in various inflammations. Treatment of Contusions of Bone. I must still most emphatically recommend operation when the local symptoms indicate the presence of osteomyelitis, not primarily for the evacuation of subcranial pus, but in order to freely remove the infected bone; this, when promptly done, is the only effectual means at our dis- posal for preventing osteophlebitis, subcranial suppuration, or pyaemia. This measure has been successfully employed where bone trouble, initi- ated by old ear disease, has caused septic thrombosis of the lateral sinus,2 this channel having been cleaned out and disinfected after complete removal of all infected bone and ligation of the internal jug- ular vein.3 I would therefore add to the words in my former article,4 “What if no pus between the dura mater and bone be found?” “Pro- ceed at once to remove all infected bone well into healthy tissue, thor- oughly disinfect, and drain. ” The same remarks apply to the statement6 that “nothing more can be done surgically than to evacuate pus wherever accessible, etc.,” for possibly removal of affected bone and ligation of the jugular vein may save lives in the future as it has done in the past. Too much attention cannot be paid to the condition of the kidneys and intestines, which eliminate not only large amounts 1 See Vol. Y. 2 Med. Press and Circular, p. 495, 1886. Other cases have since been reported. 3 Macerven, Diseases of Brain and Spinal Cord. 4 Vol. Y., page 11. 6 Ibid., page 18.