214 TUMORS. chardt figures a section through a very small epithelioma of the lip, which shows that in one respect our previous ideas have been incorrect; for the most marked characteristic of the specimen is an increase of the thickness of all the layers of the skin—squamous cells, rete Malpighi, and corium—with hypertrophy of the papillae. Not only is there a very marked increase in the thickness of the cornified epithelial layer, but there are areas of cornified epithelium scattered through the layers of softer cells near the papillae. The latter fact is in line with the recorded observations of Scliuchardt and others, in which the eleidin (Ranviews cornifying substance) increased in the epithelia of the skin under irrita- tion, an increase which appeared to be a constant accompaniment of epitheliomatous change as well as of various slight changes such as psoriasis and leucoplakia, both of which have been shown to lead to epithelioma. Karg gives us an observation, founded on a case of Paget’s disease of the nipple, in which he found, in portions of the new growth where the tissues were otherwise healthy, and where the epithelium as yet showed no tendency to invade the connective tissue, many isolated epithelial cells which were greatly enlarged, and the protoplasm of which was clearer and more transparent than normal, the enlarged nuclei at the same time being darker. These altered cells he thinks were the bodies which Wickham and Darier took for psorosperms, and he considers this the beginning of the carcinomatous change, the starting-point therefore being in the individual epithelial cells. These somewhat contradictory observations illustrate again how little we really know of the ordinary microscopic appearances of malignant tumors. Parasitic Origin of Malignant Growths.—The feeling that malignant tumors are due to some parasitic growth is apparently gain- ing ground. From their origin in one place (primary malignant growths being so rarely multiple), their systematic spread to the surrounding tissues and along the lymphatic vessels, their metastasis to distant or- gans, their tendency to break down, and their appearance in otherwise healthy individuals, the theory of their origin in a parasitic infection has become very enticing. The resemblance between them and tuber- culosis and syphilis in particular is very close. But careful and con- tinual search after the usual vegetable parasites, such as bacteria, has resulted in nothing, Hall, Scheuerlen, and many others proving false prophets. As has been justly pointed out, if there be a parasitic cause in the malignant growth, its action must be totally different from that with which we are familiar in the case of bacteria, for the latter only cause “ inflammation” and the production of granulation tissue, whereas the parasite which is to cause a neoplasm must have the power of mak- ing both connective-tissue cells and epithelial cells increase and mul- tiply, and also give them the power of lymphatic infection. The facts so far proven appear to be these: First, certain animal parasites, the coccidia, inhabit the epithelial cells and have the power of affecting their growth in certain of the lower animals; secondly, there have been ob- served in the epithelial cells of carcinoma certain “ bodies” or “inclu- sions” which somewhat resemble the coccidia, occurring in a certain parasitic disease of the lower animals. The rabbit and the sheep appear