573 DETERMINATION OF THE FISSURES OF ROLANDO AND SYLVIUS. Fissure of Rolando. —This starts half an inch behind the mid-point between the glabella and inion, usually running downward and for- ward at an angle of 67° for about 3f inches, the lower third of the fis- sure pursuing a more vertical course; but all skulls are not formed alike, so that the “cranial index” must be found, which is ascertained by dividing the transverse diameter of the head by the antero-pos- terior diameter; thus, if the “cranial index” be 75 the angle of the fissure will be 69°, while the angle will increase one degree for every two degrees of increase in the cranial index, and vice versa.' In chil- dren the fissure is situated more anteriorly, owing to the relatively smaller size of the anterior cerebral lobes, and in those under nine years the angle may be even as low as 52°. A simple instrument constructed of two strips of parchment paper readily enables the surgeon to mark out this fissure. One strip—from II to 16 inches long—should be graduated in inches and fractions thereof, from the mid-point in both directions; to this is secured—one-half inch behind the middle point—the second strip at an angle of 67°; having as- certained the middle of the biaural line on the shaven scalp, the sur- geon places the long strip in the median line thus ascertained, from the nasion to the inion, moving it until both scales read alike; for in- stance, the graduation should mark at the inion six and one-half inches, and the same at the nasion; the oblique strip is now 55.7 of the whole Fig. 1674. A F B distance between these points behind the nasion, and only requires to have its anterior margin marked on the scalp for 3f inches to indicate the fissure. More elaborate cyrtometers may of course be employed, but this suffices. Mr. John Cliiene has recommended something even simpler; thus, ascertaining with a piece of string the midpoint between the inion and nasion, folding a piece of note-paper diagonally as indi- cated in the diagram, bringing the point A to D; now folding back A so that the line A F corresponds to G F and removing the triangle G G" F; unfolding the paper, the line F G’ will make with the line F D an 1 For all ordinary purposes 67° may be considered correct.