DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. 511 Fig. 1004. Fig. 1005. Convalescent Splint. the wire cuirass to which the addition of traction has been made. It provides complete fixation for the patient, who can be carried about, as on a frame, without any jar to the hip; and it is easy to see that the apparatus in spite of its clumsiness may serve a very useful purpose in many cases. (Figs. 1661-1663.) Where traction treatment is to be adopted, it should in most cases be con- tinued over a period of some years. Traction and rest to the joint should be secured until a time has been reached when muscular spasm and articular pain have been absent for many weeks or months, and then the joint should be further protected for at least two years in ordinary cases. The danger of a re- lapse is an important one, and is always to be guarded against. The splint spoken of in American text- books as the Dowse splint, is the long traction splint merely fastened to the shoe instead of projecting below the foot. It is of such a length that it acts as a perineal crutch, and lifts the heel out of the boot, prevent- ing thereby the impact of the foot in walking. The theory of the splint has been very carefully worked out by Dr. Brackett,1 who has demonstrated that the foot, and conse- quently the hip, are protected by it from pressure except at the last part of the step, when the foot is in the act of leaving the ground, and when the least pressure is required. This splint serves to receive the weight of the body in walking, serving as perineal crutch. In a this way the jar does not come upon the convalescing joint, but upon the splint. (Figs. 1664-1666.) The frequency and danger of relapse make it advisable that the use of this splint should form a regular part of the traction treatment of hip disease, and that the dis- eased joint should be thus protected for at least one or two years after the cessation of active symptoms. Abscesses in Hip Disease.—In spite of much discussion and a certain amount of dissension on the part of men whose opinion carries much weight, such as Shaffer and Judson, it is generally accepted that the proper treatment for the abscesses of hip disease consists in early incision and evacu- ation of the contents. It is permissible to 1 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Oct. 6, 1887. Convalescent Splint Applied. Fig. 1666.