INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 816 ing distortion of the sternum and ribs, or these may become perfo- rated, allowing the disease to manifest itself externally. Little or no light has been thrown upon the etiology of these growths, which ap- pear to occur more frequently in the male than in the female. The symptomatology of mediastinal growths is by no means clear, as they may be simulated by other conditions, some writers going so far as to state that a diagnosis cannot be made during life; nevertheless, by exclusion, a fairly accurate diagnosis may be arrived at, provided that the presence of the growth is not entirely masked by the occur- rence of more prominent symptoms in other parts of the body. In a certain number of cases, pressure on important nerve trunks may bring on a long train of obscure and dangerous symptoms as regards respira- tion, circulation, deglutition, digestion, and speech. Growths in the mediastinum are liable to be confounded with aneu- risms, abscesses, pleuritic and pericardial effusions, and chronic pneu- monia, and can only be differentiated after most thorough and sometimes repeated examination. In pleurisy with effusion, and in pneumonia, there will be dulness on percussion, while in mediastinal carcinoma this sign does not appear unless the growth has encroached upon the chest-wall; even then considerable force must be exercised before any change in the percussion note will be observed. Cachexia rarely appears in mediastinal cancer unless the growth be secondary, so that no dependence should be placed on the absence of this sign. In many instances patients remain fat and well-nourished to the end. Rare cases will be found where sudden and great emaciation may take place by a growth involving the post-mediastinal tissues, and pressing upon and occluding the thoracic duct, thereby preventing the escape of chyle into the circulation. Other rare growths, such as lymphoma and lymphadenoma, may be found in the mediastinum, but their true char- acter can only be revealed by post-mortem examination. Treatment of Thoracic Groivths.—When the tumors involve the tho- racic parietes, and are in a position to be easily attacked, their removal is to be advised, even if the section of several ribs should be found necessary for the purpose. Growths involving the thoracic contents for the most part lie outside of the domain of operative surgery. Never- theless, dermoid or hydatid cysts may occasionally be removed when found lying immediately below the sternum. Mediastinal Abscess. Abscesses affecting the mediastinal spaces are fairly common, and have long been recognized. About twenty-five per cent, of persons suffering from diseases in this region will be found to present lesions of an inflammatory or suppurative character, which appear to be more frequent in the male than in the female, and usually occur in those of a strumous diathesis. Cold, contusions or other injuries in this region of the body, and recent attack of measles or typhoid fever, appear to be predisposing causes. The abscess may be of either the acute or the cold variety. The pain is deep-seated, and pressure-symptoms may simulate those of tumors in this region. In the acute variety all the