732 INJURIES AND DISEASEE OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. than treating it after occurrence by osteotomy of the lower jaw so as to make a false joint. Another method of reconstructing the cheek is to dissect a flail from the neck, make a button-hole incision under the lower jaw into the mouth, carry the flap through this opening, and suture it in the gap left by the excised tumor, with the skin surface toward the oral cavity. If the surgeon prefer, the flap may have Thiersch skin shavings applied to its raw surface, either before or after its utilization to close the opening. Sometimes a mucous surface can be given to the region where scar contraction will he most marked, by dissecting a large flap of mucous membrane from each of the lips in front of the excised area, displacing these flaps backward over the gap, and suturing together their upper and lower edges respectively. Plastic operations on the face by V-shaped incision, by sliding, twist- ing, or overturning of flaps, by osteoplastic methods, or by grafting hone, muscle, or skin, are conducted on the general principles of plastic surgery. The pedicles of such flaps as those used in the method of meloplasty just described, are divided after their circulation has been secured from the new region. The surfaces left hare by the dissection of the flaps should he immediately covered with a pavement of skin shavings. When very large portions of the face have been lost by injury, operation, or disease, prosthetic appliances of celluloid, wax, and other materials may be successfully constructed to imitate the missing struc- tures. The artistic success of these attempts is sometimes unexpectedly good. The keloid growth that occurs in old scars not unfrequently returns after excision. It is said that in negroes, in whom keloid disease is common, the excrescence softens and even disappears as the patient ad- vances in adult life.1 Fistula upon the Surface of the Face. •Fistulous openings upon the face occur in connection with injuries and diseases of the salivary and lachrymal apparatus, the frontal and maxillary sinuses, and the mouth. Sloughing of the tissues of the cheeks, from excessive ptyalism or from gangrene as a sequel of one of the fevers of low type, may readily cause a communication between the surface of the cheek and the cavity of the mouth. These same pathological changes, or wounds of the cheek, may cause a salivary fistula, whereby the secretion of the parotid gland is emptied upon the cutaneous surface because of an abnormal opening into the parotid duct. Similar lesions may result in salivary fistulse of the ducts of the sublingual and submaxillary glands, the location of the abnor- mal orifice varying with the anatomical situation of the primary lesion. Abscesses or gangrene may give rise to a communication between a lobule of one of the salivary glands and the surface, thus causing a fistula in which the duct of the gland is not involved. The saliva escaping from the abnormal orifices in such glandular fistulsewill prob- ably be less in amount than from openings of the same size connecting 1 See Dr. J. Collins Warren’s paper, and subsequent discussion, on Cicatrices, etc., in Transactions of the American Surgical Association, vol. xi., 1893.