359 ARTERITIS. Now, generally speaking, deligation of an artery is practised in such a manner that the inner coat of the artery is injured or ruptured; and in these cases we have the formation of a (red) thrombus and definite occlusion of the vessel by substitution of this thrombus by newly formed tissue. But it is possible to tie the ligature about an artery in such a man- ner that no laceration of the inner coat is produced; and it is now sufficiently well established experimentally, that aseptically conducted deligation of arteries does not necessarily cause the death of the endo- thelium (Weigert). In such cases we have occlusion of the vessel by proliferating endarteritis alone, as well as by the immigration of leuco- cytes from the nearest vasa vasorum, without the formation of a clot (Landerer). We may, therefore, sum up our present knowledge in the proposition, that clotting takes place only when damage to the endothelium is asso- ciated with a too rapid current, and that, generally speaking, the size of the blood-clot is in inverse proportion to the asepticity of the proce- dure. It must not be imagined, however, that unanimity in these questions has been arrived at by all experimenters. Many results differing from the above have been recorded in the literature of this subject (Ballance and Edmunds, Delepine and Dent, Arnaud, etc.), which for the present must be ascribed to variations of technique. The effects of atrophic changes in the endothelia due to ligature-pressure, upon the formation of a clot, likewise require more elucidation. Repair or definitive occlusion after an injury to an artery, without the formation of a clot, then, begins by the proliferation of the single layer of cells of the endothelium, which embryologically belongs to the con- nective-tissue group (His), with karyokinesis. This occurred, in the cases observed by Pick, on the fifth day. In this manner buds and spurs were formed projecting into the lumen of the artery (eighth day); flat and spindle cells appeared in great numbers, all showing mitoses, which now occurred also in the media and in the adventitia as well. Infiltration with round cells, however, was mostly limited to the outer coat. By the eighth day the blood, hitherto unchanged in the lumen of the vessel, began to undergo granular disintegration. Karyokinesis continued with unabated vigor till after the twentieth day, when the lumen was almost entirely filled with proliferated elements of the intima. In those cases, on the other hand, in which a clot is formed after liga- tion of an artery, from the causes mentioned above, the definitive obliteration of the vessel progresses simultaneously with the substitution of the clot by newly formed tissue. On this point all writers are agreed. But until recently there has been much discussion on the more minute histological processes involved in this transformation. While one school of pathologists believed that the leucocytes enclosed in the thrombus led to its organization (Virchow, Weber), others at- tributed the tissue-change to the white blood-corpuscles emigrated from the vasa vasorum (Cohnlieim, Ziegler), and still others held that the tissue substituting the thrombus originated by proliferation from the cells of the intima (Waldeyer, Thiersch).