928 URINARY CALCULUS. what similar to that formerly proposed by Dolbeau. For these large stones he claims seventy-six operations with two deaths. For very hard stones he uses a chisel and hammer through the perineal opening; in this way he removed successfully from one patient seventeen ounces of debris, and thus he justifies his opposition to the removal of any un- broken calculus from the bladder. Selection of a Method of Radical Treatment. Perhaps under this head more may be said than under any other to show the drift of professional opinion since the original article was written to which this is a supplement. Practically all the crushing work upon young children has been recorded since then. A larger part of this has been done in India, and to P. Freyer, whose records have been given to the profession through the British Medical .Journal,1 the profession is greatly indebted, as it is to D. F. Keegan, of Indore, whose cases appeared in the Indian Medical Gazette,2 and subsequently in the Lancet.3 Freyer, in his second communication, gives a record of a hundred con- secutive successful cases, and Keegan, who it appears received the idea from T. Beaumont, of Indore, tabulates 111 litholapaxies in young boys by himself and Caldecott, and by an Indian surgeon, with only 4 deaths, some of the children being very young and small, and several of the stones exceedingly large. Keegan’s last report, up to 1890, includes 125 cases with 4 deaths, all from extensive pre-existing kidney disease; the children ranging from one and three-fourths to fourteen years, and the stones from two up to six hundred and six grains. As early as 1887 and 1888, crushing operations upon children had been performed in England by Walsham, Willett, Uthol, Cadge, and Morgan. In this country the first successful cases of the crushing operation upon children are the four reported by D. P. Allen,4 the only serious criticism upon them being that the children should rather have been classed as young men, being, respectively, thirteen, thirteen and a half, fifteen, and nineteen years old. J. Wm. White, of Philadelpia, has also recorded a case for this country, and E. Hurry Fenwick in Eng- land gathered together, in 1888,5 106 cases from all sources, of children operated upon by litbolapaxy between the ages of two and fifteen years, with a mortality of t9q of one per cent. Surely no better statistical showing than this could be demanded for any operation, and the future of litholapaxy for young male children seems assured. Personally I have not operated upon any young male child by this method, having seen no case of stone in a male child for many years. In female children I have applied it successfully. Comparing the results claimed to have been attained by different methods up to recent date, no better exponents of German and English surgery need to be cited than Dittel, of Vienna, and Sir Henry Thomp- son, of London. The question now considered, of course, is the com- 1 December 24, 1888, and October 12, 1889. 2 October, 1888. 3 October 4, 1890. 4 Medical News, September, 1887. 5 Provincial Medical Journal, Feb. 1, 1888.