219 ETIOLOGY. we need still further study of the subject before it can be accepted as settled in either way. Contagion.—The French writers (see Guelliot) have considered this subject more from the point of view of contagion than from that of climate, and the facts observed allow of explanation in either way. Thus, while in Paris the number of deaths from cancer is only lOT per 100,000 inhabitants, five times less than the number of deaths from tuberculosis-—and the same holds true of other cities, the number in Lyons, the worst, being 163—in many French villages this proportion is much increased. Arnaudet, Lucas-Championniere, Desplous, and Manichon report from four villages a proportion of deaths from cancer equal to 315, 200, 266, and even 1100 per 100,000 inhabitants. The common climatic bond between these liot-beds of the disease is marshy ground, as I have already noted. Arnaudet, however, thinks that the cause must lie in the drinking-water, especially that used to make cider, the favorite beverage of the region, but he also lays stress upon the fact that the disease seems to cling to certain dwellings, appearing in successive occupants often not connected by blood relationship. Thus, in the course of thirty years, thirty-one cases of cancer oc- curred in one group of seventeen houses out of fifty-four. As lie justly remarks, such causes of malignant tumors as infection of the water supply, or of dwellings, could easily be overlooked, as they might be concealed under the appearance of heredity. In addition to these cases, Wheeler reports from Castine, a town in Maine (U. S.), that fourteen cases occurred within a radius of two or three blocks. In many instances mentioned by the authors just quoted, successive occupants of one house, or individuals not connected by any blood- relationship, have been attacked by the disease, so that the conclusion is almost irresistible that some strong contagious factor is present, whether this contagion be due to the drinking-water, as Arnaudet sug- gests, or whether it be transmitted directly or indirectly from one indi- vidual to another. Many cases of supposed direct personal contagion of cancer are to be found in surgical literature,1 but there are few instances which have been scientifically observed, with microscopic examination of the tumors, and the majority are mere coincidences. Among these instances of contagion or coincidence we may note that quoted by Clement Lucas, of a man with rodent ulcer of the eyelid and forehead, whose wife was seized with scirrhus of the breast, and whose partner, who lived in the same house with them, was finally afflicted with epi- thelioma of the tongue. Whitehead gives the instance of a middle- aged man who died of epithelioma of the lip which he attributed to drinking from the same vessel as his father, who had died of the same malady a year before his own disease showed itself. Guelliot saw a man, his wife, his servant, and his father-in-law, all die of cancer (of the rectum in the men, of the breast in the women), all of them lead- ing very confined lives in one apartment, and all of the deaths occur- ring within five years. Arnaudet saw two bitches occupying in suc- cession the same kennel, affected within two years with cancer of the vulva. Isolated cases of epithelioma of the penis in the husband have been observed to follow uterine epithelioma in the wife, but those re- 1 Williams, Lancet, 1891, vol. ii., p. 607.