TERATOMATA. 233 tained in a cavity which had all the anatomical appearances of a con- genital cyst. These branchiogenic cysts may be found anywhere in the lines of union of the branchial arches, and are either multilocular or, more commonly, unilocular. If formed from the epithelium near the cuta- neous surface of the arches, they are lined with flat epithelium, con- taining sebaceous or fatty debris like' dermoid cysts, and this is the most common form. If formed from the deeper portions of the cleft they have a cylindrical epithelial lining, which may be ciliated, and their contents are more mucous. The walls both of the cysts and of the fistulse are remarkable for containing large quantities of lymphoid tis- sue, the lymphoid cells being scattered without regularity throughout the stroma, or gathered in masses forming follicles. Gussenbauer has even found small lymph glands in their walls, and claims to have re- peatedly observed in operations for their extirpation that the lymphatic glands along the great vessels were absent. On this lie bases a sug- gestion that the cysts may originate in the foetal structures for produc- ing these glands, claiming that he has demonstrated the development of the epithelial cells which line them directly from the lymphoid tissue, and adducing Lucke’s case as evidence. Liicke described many years ago a cyst lined with epithelium, which he claimed had developed from a cervical lymph gland, but this observation, which has caused so much argument among pathologists, was probably a misinterpretation of a very thick-walled branchiogenic cyst, that form of tumor being then un- known, and, as we have seen, its walls containing lymphatic gland tissue in con- siderable amount. Branchiogenic fistuke and cysts also contain small fragments of reticular carriage in their walls, and occasionally these fragments grow and form chondromata, which are puzzling to account for if this possi- ble source is not borne in mind. Samter has published a very curious case in which a multilocular cyst in the neck of a man was found to consist of a combination of three separate kinds of cyst, the dermoid, mucous, and lymphatic. The last-named variety was due to lymplian- geiomatous change in the walls of the original cysts. This growth recurred, and soon after a second operation the patient died, and was found to have extensive metastatic tumors in the lungs and pleura, and behind the peritoneum. The secondary tumors resembled the first, except that there was more of the lymphangeiomatous element, and fewer dermoid cavities. I have considered elsewhere the epitheliomata and carcinomata which may originate in these branchiogenic remains. Dermoid Cysts.—Dermoid cysts consist of sacs, the inner layers of which are similar to those of normal skin, and in which all the appen- dages of normal skin are found, including sweat and sebaceous glands, papillae, hair, teeth, and, in birds, feathers. The cavity of the cyst is filled with fluid or cheesy matter, which represents the secretions and waste productions of the cutaneous surface. Sometimes, however, the skin is reduced to a thin layer of flat epithelium, and no papillae are to be found. Sometimes the contents of the sac will be a thin transparent oil, and such cysts are usually translucent. In a few cases a clear serum has been found in cysts which contained hair, and were evidently