TECHNIQUE OF CEREBRAL OPERATIONS. 585 of substance in the dura made good, by taking a portion of the peri- cranium from the under surface of the flap in the scalp, turning its osteogenetic surface upward, and sewing it to the dura by interrupted sutures. I have had to do this in two cases, which were perfectly successful. Sometimes when the bone is not replaced there will be great bulging of the flap, due it may be, in some instances, to what might be called a subcutaneous fungus cerebri, together with accu- mulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Fig. 1684, taken from one of my patients, shows this to a very marked degree. In a later, similar case, a secondary operation for the removal of a piece of necrosed bone gave me an opportunity to see under the scalp, and thus to verify the fact that the major part of the protru- sion was due to such a fun- gus cerebri, the remaining swelling being due to cerebro- BulgiDg of Scalp After Kse££al of Dura and Brain Sub' spinal fluid. This emphasizes the need for immediate and entire closure of the scalp wound in cases in which the brain substance has been lacerated either by the original injury or during an operation, in order to prevent an open fungus cere- bri with all its dangers. The limits of our operative procedures are constantly being widened. As has already been mentioned, by the dural separator, the probe, and the finger, a large part of the inner surface of the skull may be explored. The brain may be depressed by the finger, or by a knife-handle or spoon- handle, used with gentleness, and the surgeon can easily see an inch or more beyond the opening. Toward the base of the skull the brain may be lifted, with or without the dura, and the floor of the skull be ex- plored almost to its centre, so that from the front we can discover the anterior clinoid process, laterally the entire anterior and posterior sur-, face of the petrous bone, and posteriorly the bone under the cerebellum, while from the exterior also both the finger and the eye can reach the foramen magnum. In several instances I have separated the dura from the skull over the sinuses, so that they could be explored and their condition ascertained. The brain may be punctured almost with im- punity with a blunt instrument, such as a grooved director, so as not to wound the large vessels; and the lateral ventricles may be tapped from almost any direction. Transplantation op Cerebral Tissue.—Salviati,1 Prus,2 and Thompson 3 have experimented on the transplantation of cerebral tissue 1 Wien. med. Presse, 1889, S. 838. 2 Annals of Surgery, vol. ix., 1889, p. 225. ? New York Medical Journal. Jan. 28, 1890.