i:g ANAESTHETICS AND AN.ESTHESIA. 1 Laucet, 1893. 8 Therapeutic Gazette, Oct. 16, 1893. The absorption of the residual chloroform in the lungs causes the fall to con- tinue after inhalation has been stopped. Struggling increases inhalation and, therefore, produces more rapid fall, and if associated with gasping may lead to dangerous depression. Slowing or temporary stoppage of the heart is not dangerous (providing respira- tion is undisturbed). The temporary exhaustion of the vagi following stimulation produces danger. Operations cannot produce syncope. Chloroform tends to prevent danger of shock. Chloroform always arrests respiration before the heart’s action. Chloroform, in itself, does not endanger life in cases of fatty heart, but slight exertion may cause death in patients so affected. Hemorrhage has no effect upon the narcosis. Ether cannot cause anaesthesia unless air is excluded.1 The third series of experiments, made by Drs. Hare and Thornton, confirms in the main the foregoing.2 These writers hold, however, that depression of the circulation occurs with the inhalation of an excessive dose, which effect is chiefly due to centric vasomotor depres- sion and final depression of the heart muscle. They believe that death practically always results from respiratory failure, provided the heart is healthy. In discussing the second Hyderabad Commission’s report, Alexander Wilson, anaesthetist to the Manchester Royal Infirmary,3 holds that the respiration indicates the amount of chloroform inhaled, while the pulse indicates the way in which it is being utilized by the circulation—a slow pulse allowing free administration of concentrated chloroform vapor, while with a full-bounding pulse even dilute vapor may be dangerous. He says that the results of the Commission’s experiments justify watching the pulse as well as the respiration. Buxton 4 presents the results of his extensive clinical experience with anaesthetics on man —and such must be admitted to be of more practical value than the conclusions formed from experiments upon animals—and believes, as McWilliams seems to have demonstrated,6 that inhalation of chloro- form is attended with cardiac dilatation from the first, and that this is from the direct effect of the substance upon the heart muscle. Unger0 and others conclude from their investigations that the prolonged inhala- tion of chloroform produces fatty degeneration of the heart muscle. The extensive cross-circulation experiments of Gaskell and Shore7 are very ingenious, and, could they be taken without reserve, would indicate direct action of chloroform upon the heart substances. But the oppor- tunities for error, and the highly artificial conditions produced, render the results thus obtained almost useless to the practising physician. Hare and Thornton,8 in their conclusions, practically admit that both cardiac and respiratory death can take place, but that respiratory failure occurs first where the heart is healthy. If the heart is diseased and the depression of chloroform is added, sudden arrest may occur without any premonitory disturbance of either respiration or pulse. It is evident that all the phenomena attending the inhalation of chloroform have not been definitely settled, and until the results of ex- 1 Lancet, 1890; Therapeutic Gazette, 1893; Annual of Universal Med. Sciences, 1891. 2 Therapeutic Gazette, Oct. 16, 1893. 3 Manchester Medical Chronicle, 1890. 4 British Medical Journal, 1892. 5 Ibid , 1890. 6 Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, 1887.