TUBERCULOSIS OF BOXES AXI) JOIXTS. 493 Generalization of Tuberculosis.—Another evidence of the tuber- cular character of these joint lesions lies in the fact that so many of the patients ultimately die of generalized tuberculosis. Cheyne states that of 386 patients who had bone or joint tuberculosis, 10 per cent, died of phthisis, or some other form of tuberculous disease, within a period of three years after the end of treatment. Of 2106 cases of tubercular dis- ease of the bones and joints, Billroth and Menzel found that more than half were complicated with tuberculosis of the internal organs. Koenig believed that in only about 20 per cent, of cases of joint tuberculosis was the disease confined to the joint affected. Neumeister collected 438 cases of tubercular joint disease, and found that 10 per cent, of the patients had died of generalized tuberculosis. Presence of Tubercle Structures.—In addition to this, there is the evidence afforded by the microscope of the existence of tubercle in the diseased tissues. This evidence is, of course, less convincing to the general mind than the direct production of this form of joint disease by experiment, but it nevertheless points in the same direction. These experiments and investigations would seem to show that the type of chronic joint disease known by the various names of strumous, scrofulous, and fungous, is in reality a local form of tuberculosis, and that this statement rests upon the soundest pathological and scientific basis. The matter has been entered upon at length because the posi- tion here taken is the outgrowth of the work of the last ten years, and must needs be recognized by all who have to deal with the treat- ment of chronic joint disease. Local Treatment of Tuberculous Joint Disease by Tubercu- lin.—It was hoped that with the introduction of Koch’s method for the treatment of tuberculosis a new era had begun in the treatment of tuberculous disease of the joints. The history and the failure of the tuberculin treatment are matters of medical history, and the reader will have no difficulty in finding exact directions for the use of the remedy as it was advocated by the originator. The idea of Koch was that the remedy did not kill the bacilli, but attacked the tubercular tissue and not the healthy structures, which gave clearly a limit to the inflammation that attended its use; and the action of the remedy cer- tainly was an increase of irritation in cases of surgical tuberculosis. When the fluid was injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the back, tubercular joints became swollen, red, and irritated. It was hoped that not only would tuberculin serve as a remedy in surgical tubercu- losis, but that it might be utilized as a diagnostic sign in cases of tuber- cular disease. Neither of these anticipations has been realized. Its first use in affections of the joints was made by Bergmann, and from the 16 cases analyzed by him he was led to anticipate that in cer- tain cases its employment would be attended by brilliant results. Llalin 1 reported 59 cases of surgical tuberculosis treated by Koch’s method, and reported that 16 were considerably and 12 noticeably benefited. In tubercular joint disease the results were better when sinuses existed 1 Deutsche med. Wochensehrift, 1 Jan., 1891.