410 INJURIES OF BONES. Similar views have been expressed by Franks.1 I do not think that they have met with any favor in this country, except in the later stages of treatment; yet I think that with certain limitations they might well be accorded some weight. My own belief in the value of early passive motion has been more and more confirmed by experience, and along with this it is very easy to combine kneading of the muscles, and such gentle friction of the skin as may render the circulation more active. To very many patients such manipulations are produc- tive of much comfort. Especially in fractures near joints, I believe that rigid confinement is a frequent source of long-continued if not permanent lameness and stiffening. Local anaesthesia by means of hypodermic injections of cocaine is recommended by Conway2 as an aid in the examination of fractures and luxations. Divided doses up to 10 or 15 minims of the usual four- per-cent. solution are used, the circulation being checked b}r an elastic band around the limb above the seat of injury. The treatment of compound fractures has, as a matter of course, been greatly modified by the modern method of dealing with all open wounds. The thorough cleansing and sterilization—rendering aseptic —of every portion of the exposed tissues, and the application of aseptic protective dressings, are the essential features of the system. Complete discussion of the details of such procedures, and of the results obtained, may be found in articles by Dennis,3 Davies-Colley,4 and Burrell and Dwight.5 Senn has proposed 11 to fix the fragments together by the use either of an aseptic perforated bone tube, inserted into the medullary canal, or of a ferrule or ring of the same material surrounding them. He cites three instances in which he tried the latter plan, but not with very good results; and there are certain difficulties in its application, which it would seem must limit its employment to exceptional cases. Non-Union and False Joint. For the mechanical restraint of the exposed ends of the fragments in ununited fractures, Estes7 recommends a device somewhat similar to one long in use, and generally credited to Langenbeck. He employs a steel plate three-eighths of an inch wide, one-sixteentli of an inch thick, and two and one-half inches long, and with several holes drilled through it on either side of the mid-point. This is applied directly to the fractured bone, so that it may be secured to the fragments by driving ivory pegs through the holes into corresponding holes bored into the bone. The ends of the pegs are left long, so that they project through the linear wound, and can be withdrawn after about three weeks, when the plate is removed also. According to Estes, this plan has answered very well 1 Dublin Journal of Med. Science, Nov. 2, 1891. Other articles on this subject have been published by Rosenblith, in the Journal de Medecine de Paris, for March 21, 1891; by Lan- derer, in the Centralbl. fur die gesammtliche Therapie, for June, 1891; and by Iluyberechts, in La Presse Med. Beige, for Nov. 16, 1891. 5 New York Med. Journal, Dec. 5, 1885. 3 Journal of the Am. Med. Association, June 21, 1884. 4 Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. xxix., i887. 5 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Sept. 8, 1892. 6 Trans. Am. Surgical Association, vol. xi., 1893. 7 Trans. Med. Soc. of Pa., 1892.