INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 372 Tubercular Lymphangeitis.—That this disease primarily attacks the lymphatics of the limbs has only comparatively recently been dem- onstrated, it having been confounded with chronic lympliangeitis. In the reported cases, inoculation-tuberculosis of the skin has nearly always given rise to tubercular lympliangeitis. Thus, it has followed a case of anatomical tubercle; a tuberculous verrucous patch on the dorsum of the hand; nodules on the digits, etc.; but occasionally a more deeply seated focus has given rise to it, as in the forearm, from fungous synovitis of the carpal sheaths. Pathological Anatomy.—Thickened, nodular, of a yellowTish-white, the vessels form small knotted cords, the nodules subsequently caseating and forming tubercular abscesses. The walls are at first infiltrated with embryonal cells, and the vessel is surrounded with a wide zone of similar elements; afterward, when the nodules are completely formed, although chiefly due to the perilymphatic exudate, they project into and narrow the lumen, causing stagnation of the lymph which partially coagulates, is yellow, and of a caseous appearance. Microscopically, a caseated centre surrounded by giant-cells and bacilli is always found.1 Symptoms.—These are slow and progressive in their development. There may be violaceous red streaks extending in the course of the lymphatics from the original lesion to a varying distance up the limb, but as a rule the skin is not reddened, only an elongated, indu- rated cord being sensible to the touch, although sometimes also visible to the eye, with nodular masses located at different points. The nod- ules, at first small, are clearly subcutaneous, rounded, firm and sharply defined, but as they enlarge the skin becomes adherent, they stand out in relief, becoming even as large as an egg or small orange, and soon soften. Connecting these are the hardened, cord-like lymph-ves- sels which at a later period may present fluctuating points. The knotted cords may extend the whole length of the limb, but often, as in the hand, the disease ceases at the wrist. The glands are attacked, but rarely become much enlarged, nor do they usually soften. The skin over the softened lymphatic nodules thins, finally yielding to give vent to agru- mous pus, leaving irregular, crater-like ulcers, with violaceous, thinned, undermined edges. If not cured by treatment, involvement of the glands will follow, and, finally, a generalized tuberculosis. Diagnosis.—In its typical form this can hardly be confounded with anything but syphilitic gummatous lympliangeitis, but the location and the coexistence of other syphilitic lesions, the more diffused and flattened form of the nodules, and the response to treatment, should re- solve all doubt. Treatment.—Prompt, early, thorough removal, by the knife and cu- 1 Duplay et Reclus, op. cit., p. 275 et seq. The following may be consulted :— Lannelongue, Societe de Chirurgie, Fev., 1880; Weigert, Die Verbi'eitung des Tuberkel- giftes nach dem Eintritt in den Organismus, Jabrbuch f. Kinderheilkunde, 1886, Bd. xxi.j Weichselbaum, Wiener medicinischc Wochensclirift, 1884, Nos. 12 und 13; Merklen, Societe medicale des hopitaux, 12 juin, 1885, and Annales de Dermatologie, 1888; Martin du Magny, These de doct., Lyon, 1887 ; Birch-Hirschfeld, Die Geschwtllste der Lymphgefilsse, Lehrbuch der pathologiscben Anatomie, 1887 ; Hanot, art. Phtliisie, Dictionnaire de medecine et dc chi- rurgie pratique ; Sanchez,/These de doct., Toledo, 1887; Tuffier, Un fait d’inoculation tu- berc-uleuse chez l’homme, Etudes experimentales et chirurgicales sur la tuberculose (Yerneuil), 1888; Morel-Lavallee, Scrofulo-tuberculose de la peau, Ibid. ; Lefevre, Sur la tuberculose par inoculation cutanee chez Thomme, These de doct., 1888. I must express my indebtedness to the work of Mm. Duplay et Reclus for all that is given in this section.