689 CATARACT. this condition of maturity not arrive, wherefore artificial ripening is practised by not a few operators. This is done by stroking the lens with any smooth instrument of proper size, either through the cornea, or directly from the anterior chamber after paracentesis has been per- formed, care being taken not to injure the iris. Others introduce the point of a needle just within the capsule and by this means hasten opacification. Again there are those who perform a preliminary iridec- tomy in addition to massage of the lens. The amount of vision in the other eye should have some influence in determining the time for ex- traction. When vision is still sufficient for the performance of the patient’s ordinary duties, there is nothing to be gained by removing the cataract from the worse eye, but as soon as the second eye fails to such an extent that duties are interfered with, or there is difficulty in going about, the first lens should be removed if the eye is “operable.” The general condition of the patient requires attention, and, before operating, the heart, blood-vessels, liver, and kidneys should be examined. Some operators prefer to keep the patient, if away from home, under observa- tion for several days, and always administer a purgative or laxative a day or two before operating; while others prefer to operate at once, and unless there is constipation do not consider preliminary treatment necessary. Strict antiseptic precautions must be followed in preparing the instruments. When possible the patient should take a bath and put on clean clothes; the face must be thoroughly cleansed with a solution of bichloride of mercury (1 in 3000), the eyelids being carefully washed with soap and water. The eye is thoroughly bathed with the solution of salt and boric acid. Particular attention should be paid to the eyebrows and cilise, and to the beards of men. A clean towel should be folded around the head so that the hair may be entirely covered. The operator and assistant should carefully cleanse their hands, first with soap and water and then in a strong solution of bichloride of mercury or other an- tiseptic. Two or three drops of a four-per-cent, solution of cocaine are instilled at about fifteen, ten, and five minutes before commencing the operation. Some operators prefer to have the patient in a reclining chair, while others use an operating table, and many the bed upon which the patient is to lie afterward. It would seem safer to use the bed when possible, though some surgeons do not hesitate to operate even in their offices, and to send the patient home afterward by con- veyance, or on foot if the distance is short. The speculum is used by most surgeons for separating the lids, but a few employ the elevator, and a lesser number hold the lids with the fingers. The incision is made wholly within the cornea, the puncture and counter-puncture being in the corneo-scleral junction. The incision is usually upward, but a few make it downward. The surgeon must exercise his judg- ment about the size of the incision, which should be governed by the probable size of the lens; this should have an easy exit, thereby pre- venting the retention of cortical matter. The quicker the incision is made the cleaner will be the edges of the wound, and the less liability will there be of the iris falling upon the edge of the knife. The capsule is lacerated by some operators as the knife passes through the chamber. Probably the majority of surgeons now dispense with an iridectomy, and the advantages to be gained are, (1) saving of time, (2) less muti- lation and less exposure to inflammation of cut surfaces, (3) mainte- VOL. VII.—44