( 743 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE PENNSYLVANIA COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY, GYNAECOLOGIST TO THE JEFFERSON MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, SURGEON TO ST. AGNES’S HOSPITAL, EX-PRESIDENT OF THE AMERICAN SURGICAL ASSOCIATION, ETC. Wounds of the Tongue.—In operations for the relief of wounds of the tongue, it is desirable that the surgeon should have the organ under complete control. This is best accomplished by passing a strong aseptic silk ligature through its apex and tying it in a loop. Anaes- thesia should be induced in all cases of a serious nature, especially in children. Hemorrhage from wounds of the tongue is sometimes very difficult to control, and in patients who are the subjects of haemo- philia death may follow from slight wounds, as by biting the tongue. In cases of severe hemorrhage, or when the ranine artery is wounded, it may be necessary to apply a ligature to the lingual artery as it passes forward above the border of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. Owing to the moisture of the tongue and its constant movement, sutures when applied should be very carefully tied. In gunshot wounds of the tongue the ball may lodge in its substance, and instances are recorded in which a bullet, passing through the jaw, has driven a tooth into the tongue, the tooth becoming embedded and producing severe inflammation. The foreign body may be detected by passing a probe along the track of the wound, and when its position is ascertained it should be excised. Conditions Affecting the Fraenum.—The fraenum of the tongue may be so short as to interfere with the proper movements in suction on the part of the child. The test as to the absence of this condition is the ability of the child to project the tip sufficiently forward to touch the red border of the lower lip. Very severe hemorrhage has occurred from division of the fraenum owing to wounding of the ranine artery. Absence of the fraenum has been noted in a number of instances. In these cases, the tongue falls back into the fauces and presents the appearance of a tumor. Danger from suffocation is constantly present, and one case is reported in which death occurred from this cause. FAUCES, PALATE, BY Affections of the Tongue.