VOL. VII —14 (209) TUMORS. BY B. FARQUHAR CURTIS, M.D. PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE.NEW YORK POST-GRADUATE SCHOOL, SURGEON TO ST. LUKE’S HOSPITAL AND TO THE NEW YORK HOSPITAL. This article is intended to be supplementary to that of Mr. Butlin, in Vol. I., bringing down to date the subjects with which he has dealt, giving an account of those topics which have been introduced or made the subject of more special study since that time, and particularly placing in the reader’s hands a clue for further personal investigation in all directions, by references to more recent monographs. The order of arrangement, however, will be different from that adopted by Mr. Butlin, in that after dealing with the etiology and other general subjects, the teratomata will be first considered, in- cluding with them the branchiogenic cysts, dermoids, and odontomata; secondly, the neoplasms of the connective-tissue group will be studied ; and, using the endotheliomata as a transition form, I shall pass, thirdly, to the epithelial tumors. Classification. An elaborate differentiation and classification of the varieties of car- cinoma and other tumors may appear like an unnecessary refinement, but a study of the variations in the clinical history of growths com- monly classified together, variations which I shall have to dwell upon hereafter, shows the necessity for seeking more delicate histological distinctions between these tumors than are usually made. Without this more exact differentiation, microscopic study of the structure of neoplasms will not prove as useful clinically as it should be. It is well then to bear in mind the wise words used by Virchow in defend- ing the histological basis of our knowledge of tumors, of which a trans- lation would read as follows:— “ The diagnosis depends upon the knowledge of the histological character of the growth, and not so much upon the identification of the genus as upon the precise verification of the species. Pathological tumors in this respect resemble plants. It is not enough to ascertain that a plant belongs to the family of So- lanaceae, nor even that it is of the genus Solanum; its poisonous nature can only be determined when we have discovered which species of Solanum is before us. It is exactly the same with the carcinomata and sarcomata.”