INTERNAL REMEDIES. 309 used this drug alone. In a certain proportion of cases, by no means a small one, any solution, however weak, seemed to irritate, giving rise not so much to pain at the time of injection as to subsequent increased ardor urinse. In others the treatment was well borne but had no in- fluence upon the discharge; in others it aggravated this; and those in which it caused very decided improvement were in the small minority. Rigid dietetic and hygienic directions were always given at the same time, and were, as a rule, fairly well followed, as most of the patients were of good social position. Boric acid, recommended long ago by Hyndman, of Cincinnati, and tried by Chameron, Du Castel, and others with unfavorable results, was used by me in a considerable number of cases six or eight years ago, and and was dropped on account of the general negative character of its eD fects. It has been shown to have little effect on the gonococcus, but it is quite unirritating, and can be used in sufficiently strong solution to de- stroy many of the weaker forms of vegetable life. Its germicidal action is slow but continuous. I shall allude hereafter to its internal employ- ment. I certainly improved my results when I added it to the bichloride injection in the proportion of about fifteen grains to the ounce. I felt, however, the additional need of an astringent, and for a long time employed the sulphate of zinc, for which I afterward substituted the sulpho-carbolate (from two to ten grains to the ounce of the mixture). By adding a ten or fifteen per cent, solution of peroxide of hydrogen in varying strengths, I then found that I had a formula which, both clini- cally and experimentally, showed excellent antiseptic qualities. In ex- ceptional cases of profuse catarrhal secretion the addition of bismuth salicylate was also of advantage. The formula which I now employ is as follows: 3 Hydrarg. bicliloridi gr. A- Acid, boric 3 i. — 3 iss. Zinci sulpho-carbolat gr.xviij.- 3 ss. Liq. hydrogen, peroxid f§i.-f|iij. Aquae ros q. s. ad f 3 vi. The rigid application of the antiseptic principle by means of these drugs, used in this way, has undoubtedly brought about a distinct gain in my results; complications are fewer, and the time required for cure is shorter, than when I was content with employing sedatives and astrin- gents and with endeavoring to meet symptomatic indications, but there is still much to be desired. Internal Antisepsis.—In quite a large proportion of cases it is not possible to use this injection, or any modification of it, for some days after the disease has reached its height. Under these circumstances, boric acid combined with potassium bromide and belladonna in a solu- tion of potassium citrate, while it never has any very marked effect upon the amount of discharge, usually moderates the ardor urinse, chor- dee, and vesical tenesmus of the inflamatory stage. Internal Remedies. There can be little doubt that the beneficial action of cubebs, copaiba, and oil of sandalwood, as well as that of their congeners, gurjun, kava