291 CARCINOMA. ords and case reports as were accessible to me, almost entirely from German sources, the totals of all cases of cancer of the breast in which operations had been performed more than three years before the date of the report; in other words, all those cases in which the patients had had a chance to remain free from recurrence for that time. The sum of these totals is 826 cases, in which 59 patients died from the operation and 767 recovered. Of the latter, 154 remained well, 529 had local recurrence or metastatic growths, and 82 were lost sight of or died of other causes in less than three years. Deducting the last set of 82 cases, we have a percentage of cures of 22.5 on the basis of the re- covered cases only, or, including the deaths, a percentage of 20.7 on the total number of cases. In either case the result is better than one patient in five cured. We may compare with these results the work of some of our own surgeons, although as full details have not been published I have been unable to include them in my tables. Dennis reports the results of 33 cases of amputation of the breast for carcinoma, with no deaths and 25 per cent, of cures; while Weir, in a series of 125 cases, also with no deaths, says that 20 per cent, of the 60 patients whose condition he was able to observe for three years had no recurrence. Bull1 reports 108 cases with 4 deaths. In 7 5 cases the patients were operated upon three years or more before the date of the report, and of these 3 died from the operation, while 52 suffered from recurrence, and the remaining 20 continued healthy, giving 26.6 per cent, of cures—the best results on record. Angerer in 40 cases had a mortality of zero, and Poulsen gives the Copenhagen mortality as only 5 in 280 cases, or less than 2 per cent.; these are the lowest reported death-rates of foreign operators. It would seem to be unnecessary at this late date to dwell upon the necessity for clearing out the axilla in every case of amputation of the breast for carcinoma, whether glands can be felt there or not, but since such authorities as Butlin and Treves still defend the old plan of leav- ing the axilla untouched unless enlarged glands can be felt, I must emphasize again the teaching of Volkmann, Gross, and Banks. Gross found that in 96 cases in which the patients were operated upon with- out touching the glands, and in which recurrence followed and its sit- uation was noted, it took place in the cicatrix and vicinity only in 48 percent., in the glands alone in 20 per cent., and in both in 32 per cent. In 313 cases, on the other hand, in which the axilla was cleared, the recurrence was local only in 75 per cent., in the glands alone in 12 per cent., and in both in 13 per cent. This shows a reduction of glan- dular recurrence from 52 to 25 per cent, by the clearing of the axilla, and is the best possible evidence of the usefulness of the practice. Gross maintains, in common with nearly all other recent writers, that enlargement of the glands exists even when they cannot be felt, and such was the case 14 out of 16 times in his own experience. Carcinoma of the Uterus.—The results of treatment of carcinoma of the uterus have very greatly improved of late years, and I have ob- tained sufficient material to make at least a preliminary statement of these results. From the clinics of Schauta, Landau. Gusserow, Olshaus- en, Martin, Leopold, Hofmeier, Boldt, F. Krug, Fritsch, Kaltenbach, 1 Medical Record, August 25, 1894.