607 TUMORS OF THE BRAIX. ascertained with some accuracy. But there are other symptoms which enable us to locate such tumors with much additional precision. Thus there are other eye symptoms besides choked disc which help us. Paresis, paralysis, or spasm of any single muscle or group of mus- cles of the eyeball generally indicates either pressure from a coarse lesion in that portion on the cortex supplying the muscle, or infiltration of pathogenic material into the nerves'themselves. Spasm is of more localizing value than either paresis or paralysis. Hemianopsia is of very great value, since it indicates a lesion of the cuneus on the same side. Thus if the right cuneus is involved, the right half of each retina will be blind, that is, the left half of each visual field will not be seen. The pupil also is apt to be dilated on the side of the tumor, but this is of no value in distinguishing between tumor and any other intracranial disease. Motor aphasia indicates that the tumor is located in the third frontal convolution, on the left side in a right-handed person and on the right side in a left-handed person. (See also Agraphia, below.) Paresis or Paralysis.—If the tumor is so located that it produces pressure on the centre for the face, arm, or leg, there may be paresis or paralysis of the face, arm, or leg of the opposite side; and if the tumor be large, a partial or complete hemiplegia may exist. The value of the late appearance of such local paralysis or paresis is again men- tioned in regard to tumors of the frontal region. Anaesthesia is rare, excepting when the internal capsule is involved, and may even then be absent. If the tumor presses upon the olfactory or any other nerve, or involves the nucleus of any nerve, it will first pro- duce irritation, and afterward destruction of the function of such nerve. Mental Symptoms.—As the tumor increases in size, stupor, deepening into coma, precedes death. At an earlier period in the disease, however, there are apt to be such mental disturbances as hallucinations and de- lusions, sometimes amounting even to delusional insanity; and there are especially apt to be a general loss of mental acuteness and of memory, and more or less childishness. The surgeon must, however, be on his guard as to the possible difficulty of distinguishing between hysteria I and the symptoms of tumor. Word-deafness, sensory or amnesic aphasia, is the loss of memory of the sound of a word. A spoken word conveys no meaning to the patient, though he may be able to recognize it when written. This symptom indicates a lesion in the posterior half of the first temporal convolution on the left side. Word-blindness, or alexia, is the loss of memory of the appearance of a written or printed word. For instance, a word which would be understood when spoken is wholly unintelligible in writing or in print. This symptom is usually indicative of disease of the lower posterior portion of the parietal lobe on the left side, especially about the angular or supra-marginal gyri. Agraphia is the loss of memory of the muscular movements neces- sary for writing; so that the patient, though able to move his arm perfectly well, will have lost the faculty of writing. It is apt to be associated with motor aphasia, and usually indicates a lesion beneath the motor speech centre or Broca’s convolution, or possibly one of the posterior part of the second frontal convolution.