794 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. pharyngo-nasal space has found it a disagreeable and painful proce- dure. With larger children it may readily be done, but with younger children it should be avoided if possible. The terror and intense ner- vous disturbance of the child thus produced render the employment of further remedial measures most unsatisfactory. I believe that we have a measure which will largely replace the use of the finger in small children, and which will give almost as satisfactory results. In young children the hypertrophied tissue is almost always of soft consistence, and through their fulness the blood-vessels bleed readily when touched, while bleeding from the normal membrane will be the exception. A light probe wrapped with cotton can easily be introduced into the naso- pharynx of the child, and the different parts of the vault can he lightly rubbed. If the soft growths are present the cotton will be found stained with blood, and this, in m3' opinion, will justify the diagnosis. This may be an unpleasant procedure, but it does not produce the in- tense nervous shock which follows the introduction of the finger. In some cases the probe may be passed through the nostril into the naso- pharynx. The use of the spray or the douche through the nostril often fails to establish the diagnosis. It is stated that if the naso-pliarynx is blocked the spray or fluid will fail to return through the opposite nostril, as it would in health. This is true; but the same result will be obtained in cases of posterior hypertrophies, although naso-pharyn- geal hypertrophy may be absent. Treatment.—In the treatment of lymphoid hypertrophy a certain difference of opinion will be found to exist, even among those who have had large experience. Some assert that whenever the presence of the hypertrophy can be verified it should be totally eradicated. Others, believing that the presence of the lymphoid tissue in the naso-pliarynx is physiological, and that it is designed for some purpose, although its purpose has not so far been satisfactorily explained, contend that even if hypertrophied it should not be interfered with, but should be left to the absorption which Nature will accomplish in time, unless, through its size, it produces symptoms and disturbances which may be injurious to other organs, or may impair the growth and development of the body. Under the latter circumstances the hypertrophy must be reduced or removed by surgical measures. The simplest operation is to tear the growth with the finger-nail, a plan which is only applicable to soft growths. I do not believe that the whole mass need be re- moved. I have found that when a soft growth has been well rubbed with the finger-nail, the crushing and the resulting hemorrhage bring about a process of absorption which removes the obstruction. Instead of the finger I have used a stiff probe, to which a piece of sponge or pledget of cotton has been firmly attached. With this the naso-pliarynx can be well rubbed and the growth broken down. It is much more agreeable than the finger, and equally effective. In some cases the probe may be introduced through the nostril, but in the ma- jority it must be passed through the mouth. When the growth is firm and dense it must be removed by the post-nasal forceps, the post- nasal curette, or the ivire snare. The forceps must be so shaped that it may be used in the naso-pliarymx without injuring the posterior surface of the palate. The forceps of Juratz has given the best results