263 SARCOMA. tic; but they are also found growing from minute nerve-fibres in the skin, although it is difficult in such cases to prove their connection with the nerve. He finds them present equally in both sexes, and at all ages from five to fifty years, although most frequent between twenty and thirty years. In many cases there 'is a family history of nerve-tumors, al- though not so often as in the multiple fibromata. The single tumors are either soft or hard, the softer forms being usually, though not invaria- bly, the more malignant. Sometimes a tumor which has run a very slow course will begin to grow rapidly. The neoplasms are at first usually well encapsulated by the sheath of the nerve, and consequently are generally smooth on the surface, although they may be bossellated. They are hard or elastic to the touch. Subsequently they penetrate the capsule, invade the surrounding tissues, and may ulcerate. The lymph- glands, however, remain free, and metastasis is unusual. The first symptoms may be pain and loss of power, and tenderness in the course of the affected nerve. In extirpating these tumors it will usually be necessary to resect the entire portion of nerve involved, or to amputate, more restricted operations resulting in an early return. But McBur- ney has recorded a case occurring in the median nerve, in which he preserved some fibres, and in which the patient remained free from re- currence for at least two years. As to ultimate results there are not many reports. Hume has recorded three cases, in one of which the growth recurred, while in the other two the patients were well nine months and four years afterward. The form of tumor which develops upon a multiple fibroma, or ele- phantiasis of the nerve, is remarkable in the complete series of inter- mediate forms which exist between the fibroma and sarcoma. Garre considers traumatism to be an undoubted factor in promoting the change. It is remarkable that at least one-eighth of all cases of multi- ple fibroma end in sarcomatous development. The sarcoma is usually of the spindle-cell variety. Clinically these cases present the com- bined picture of multiple fibroma of the nerves with a single malignant growth. Sarcoma of the Breast.—One of the organs more commonly affected with sarcoma is the mammary gland. Gross has collected and analyzed 156 cases, partly from his own experience, and Poulsen has studied 33 cases from the Copenhagen clinic. Schmidt moreover has made a spe- cial study of the so-called angeio-sarcomata or endothelial growths, occurring in this organ, based on 11 cases. Sarcoma is most common in the breast between forty and fifty years of age (one-third of the I cases), and nearly as common in the preceding decade. It has been ob- served as early as nine, and as late as seventy-five years. About one- half of the cases are cystic growths, besides some which show cystic de- generation. The chief histological varieties are the spindle-cell, in 68 per cent, of the cases; the round-cell (including the rare endothelial tumors) in 27 per cent.; and the giant-cell in only 5 per cent. The spindle-cell tumors appear at an earlier period of life than the others, the difference averaging nearly twelve years—thirty-six as compared with forty-eight years of age. The cystic forms also appear earlier than the solid, being found at thirty-eight years of age as compared with forty-three. The cystic form is due to retention from closure