CORYZA OR RHINITIS. 719 irritation or reaction ensuing, and the results are most satisfactory in many instances. The treatment may be repeated several times a week, or even daily in some cases. Among the newer agents for the reduction of hypertrophies which will not yield to milder measures, trichloracetic acid has been very highly lauded.1 The eschar produced by its application is particularly dry and clean, and the resulting irritation is less than with almost any O Fig. 1706. Wright's Nasal Snare. other agent. In the second stage of hypertrophic rhinitis, stimulating and altera- tive sprays and pigments are still of much value, and should always be given a fair trial; the hyperplastic tissue, how- ever, often fails to yield to any mea- sures other than surgical. The galvano-cautery is as popular as it was ten years ago, but is used with much more caution, quite a number of cases of fatal cerebral disease from its use on the middle turbinated body having been reported.2 The older form of Jarvis’s snare has been replaced by that of Wright (Fig. 1706), or by some similar form requiring but one hand for its man- ipulation. The number of new forceps, septum knives, etc., is legion, and various forms of electric drill are much used for the removal of bony or cartilaginous masses. Regarding the necessity of operation upon posterior hypertrophies, Harrison Allen3 has shown it to be rarely called for, and regards it as a good rule to suspend operative treatment until all other morbid conditions have been carefully corrected. Hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsil has received a large share of the attention of rhinologists during the last few years. By some the condition is regarded as a most formidable malady, responsible for very many of the diseased states of childhood and adolescence. Others, among them myself, believe the enlargements to be a serious men- ace only when of large size, and when associated with widespread in- flammation of the upper air-passages. The greatest danger of post- nasal adenoids is to the organs of hearing, many cases of catarrhal deafness being dependent on the pressure upon and obstruction of the Eustachian tubes caused by the growths. The lungs, throat, and gen- eral development also suffer in many instances, and the characteristic stupid face and nasal deformity are soon established. As to treatment, many believe, as I do, that early cases can often be satisfactorily cured by post-nasal applications of glycerite of iodine, combined with thorough and well-chosen treatment of the whole naso- pharyngeal tract. More advanced stages of hypertrophy, obstructing respiration, call for partial or complete removal, either by the methods already suggested or by the use of Gottstein’s curette, which is now the favorite instrument for the purpose. Operative measures may be 1 Killian, Ml'inehener med. Woch., No. 39, 1891. s Munch, med. Woch., No. 51. 3 University Med. Magazine, August, 1890.