331 DISEASES OF THE HAIR. which the nail is embedded, and to this associated condition may be due most of the symptoms complained of by the patient. The inflam- mation in these softer tissues may go on to superficial ulceration, with purulent or sanguinolent discharge and crust formation, and slight burrowing of the secretion under the nail. Owing to the involvement of the matrix the nail shows evidence of impaired nutrition. The fin- ger in such a condition presents a characteristic appearance due to the swollen and bulb-like form of the distal phalanx. Frequently in this form of syphilitic onychia the nail may become dislocated or entirely separated from its attachments. Diagnosis.—The syphilitic history of the case will generally simplify the diagnosis of this condition. In the bulbous form, with associated paronychia, the disease must not be confounded with digital chancre, the nail in the latter affection not being the seat of the main trouble, nor with parasitic disease due to the presence of the trichophyton fun- gus (trichophytosis unguium). The prognosis depends upon the early administration of the proper treatment. The disease may be arrested if promptly recognized and vigorously combated. Treatment.—The treatment should be mainly internal, supplemented with antisyphilitic applications. The iodides and mercurials should be pressed to the utmost limit. Locally, Hyde recommends the white pre- cipitate salve (one scruple to the ounce) applied on linen cloths. Appli- cations of silver nitrate will have a beneficial effect upon the indolent ulcer, and these should be followed by iodoform, iodol, or- europhen in powdered form. The local applications should be persisted in as long as there is any sign of inflammatory action, and even after this has disappeared internal medication must be urged. Treatment of Ingrowing Nail.—The surface, after the nail has been removed, may be dressed with iodoform, iodol, or a mercurial, such as the ung. hydrarg. oxid. rubr., and moist boric lint should then be ap- plied and covered with oiled silk. Internally, quinine in full doses and a nourishing diet are indicated. Diseases of the Hair. Hirsuties. Synonyms: Hypertrichiasis; Polytrichia; Trichauxis ; Hypertrophy of the hair. In the condition known as trichiasis, which may be either congeni- tal or acquired, the eyelashes grow in a backward direction and are a source of great irritation to the eyeball. Treatment of Hirsuties. — When galvanism is employed the positive pole should never be used, as permanent scars would follow. When the parts are very sensitive, cocaine liydrochlorate (20 per cent.) and lanolin, in ointment form, may be rubbed in before operating, or cocaine may be used hypodermically, though its employment sometimes gives rise to alarming symptoms. Generally speaking, the coarser hairs only should be operated on; the lanugo hairs should not be touched. Hardaway employs a needle made of iridium and platinum; he says that it is easier to find the papilla with this needle than with one made