90 DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. It is easy to understand why this most remarkable relation between erysipelas and malignant tumors, against which only too often even the most heroic operations are of no avail, has not led to the systematic treatment of these tumors with erysipelas; because until recently we had to produce genuine erysipelas, which was entirely beyond our con- trol as soon as it made its appearance, and which sometimes killed the patient instead of curing him. Lately, however, C. H. H. Spronck (Utrecht) has published in the Annales de l’Institut Pasteur, for October, 1892, a series of 26 cases of malignant tumor, which he and his co-operators have treated with a preparation of the toxic products of erysipelas, obtained in the same way as that by which Koch prepared his tuberculin. Before this, Rogers published in the Revue de Medecine, for December, 1891, his experiments on animals with heated or filtered cultures. William B. Coley (New York) has also made experiments with filtered toxines (ob- tained in the usual way through clay filters by suction), and has pub- lished his results in papers in the American Journal of the Medical Sci- ences, for May. 1893, and the Post-Graduate (New York) for August of the same year. His latest report of 35 cases of malignant, inoperable tumors treated with the toxic products of erysipelas and the bacillus prodigiosus, are to be found in the Transactions of the American Surgical Association for 1894. While the author seemed to be very enthusiastic about his results, W. W. Keen, Roswell Park, and others, in discussing the paper, said that in the cases in which they had made injections with the extract furnished by Dr. Coley himself, they had been unable to obtain any cures. This has also been my own experience, in the few cases which I have had occasion to observe. Nevertheless, these in- vestigations are of the greatest importance, and invite further research, as they show at least the possibility of curing even the most malignant tumors. II. Septicaemia and Pyaemia. There is such confusion in the nomenclature of these affections, and so much discussion about the etymological correctness of the different ex- pressions used for the same disease, that I cannot do more than men- tion all the different names, and leave it to the reader to select that which he likes best, or to which he is most accustomed. Piorry first used the expression septico-emie, from which all other writers, especially German authors, have derived the following differ- ent expressions: Septicaemie, septichasmie, and septikaemie. The roots of all these words are a word used by Athenaeus and by Aris- totle, and signifying “rotten,” and oha, “blood.” Virchow changed septicaemie into septhaemie, and subsequently into sephthaemie. Each of these names has been adopted by some of the authors on the subject, most employing the term septicaemia, but a great many surgeons prefer the simple, if not correct, expression sepsis to cover the whole subject. There is less difference of opinion about the word pyaemia, which, perhaps more correctly, might be changed into pyohaemia. At the present day, when more stress is laid upon the etiology of diseases than upon their clinical symptoms, we have given up trying'