283 CARCINOMA. lived cases had been subjected to severe operations. Of all the cases which remained free for one year or more, ten in number, there were severe bone operations in three, glands were removed in five, and in only seven was the tongue removed through the mouth. By way of comparison I quote Whitehead's statistics, which are also excellent in their way. He reports 17 patients surviving less than 3 years, 2 for 3 years, 5 from 4 to 10, and one over 10 years—25 out of a total of 129, the majority of the rest having been lost sight of. Carcinoma op the Larynx.—In the treatment of cancer of the larynx, we have one of the battle-grounds between the specialist and the general surgeon. The statistics so far are rather against the latter, but they really prove little except that cases are subjected to radical operation too late, and, as in the case of the uterus, early diagnosis and prompt operation are quite likely to alter the figures at any time. I have collected 73 cases with 22 deaths, almost exactly 30 per cent. In 27 total laryngectomies the mortality, was 40.7 per cent., and in 37 partial laryngectomies the mortality was 21.6 per cent. But we must not jump at once to the conclusion that this is a true picture of the relative dangers of the two procedures, for it is to be remembered that the complete operations embrace most of the older ones, while the partial operations belong to more recent times and benefit by an improved technique. Strangely enough, in Kocher’s ten cases he lost only one of six total extirpations, and two of four partial ones. In any case the mortality is something tremendous, but it is one which can certainly be reduced, as is shown by Kocher’s good results, which are especially encouraging in view of the extensive character of his operations. The subsequent history of 22 cases of total extirpation has been noted, the disease recurring in 8 during the first year, in 4 during the second, in 1 during the third, and in 1 (Hahn’s famous case) after nine years of health; in the remainder, the patients were free from recurrence— 5 for a few months, 2 for two years, and 1 for more than four years. Of the cases of partial laryngectomy 29 were observed subsequently; in 13 there was recurrence in the first year, in 5 in the second, and in 1 after three years; while in those free from recurrence it was known that 6 patients were healthy for a few months, 1 for one year, 2 for two years, and 1 for three years. In each set 3 patients remained well over two years. Of the subjects of the complete operations, excluding Hahn’s case, we have 13.6 per cent, remaining well over two years, and in the subjects of the partial operations 10.3 per cent. Both sets of figures combined give 11.7 per cent. But if we apply the usual three-year limit, we find only three patients cured, even including Hahn’s, or 5.8 per cent., the worst result of all operations for cancer except in the inter- nal organs. But then the operation has not yet had fair treatment, and this is evident from the fact that recurrence is so frequent, although it is well known that the glands ai’e very late in becoming involved in this form of cancer. I believe that the ultimate results here should certainly equal those obtained in excision of the tongue, and that the mortality ought not to be much higher. Carcinoma of the Thyroid Gland.—This most hopeless form of carcinoma has recently been studied by Braun, Orcel, and Hinterstois-