422 INJURIES OF BONES. fingers' breadths apart, scraped, drilled, and wired them together; the patient was discharged after four months, “with perfect union and full power.” An instance is reported by Wright1 in which a boy of 17 had a frac- ture of the olecranon, and suffered from atrophy, loss of power, and neuralgia in the muscles and region supplied by the ulnar nerve. A splinter was found detached and pressing on the nerve; it was re- moved, the fragments were freshened and wired together, with a good result. Excision of the elbow-joint was performed by Lloyd 2 in a man aged 27, who had a fracture of the ulna from the upper end of the olecranon downward and forward to the middle of the sigmoid notch, the frag- ment being driven forward so as to narrow the cavity and prevent the reduction of the humerus into it. The result is not stated. Fractures of the coronoid process led to excision of the joint in a case recorded by Lediard,3 and in three by Annandale.4 In all these the elbow was luxated backward. Holmes, discussing Lediard's case, said that there was in the museum of St. George’s Hospital a specimen of fracture of both the coronoid processes in the same subject. In two of Annandale’s cases the detached portion was found adhering to “the posterior aspect of the inner condyle” (epitrochlea?). Two cases are mentioned by Tubby in which there was separation of the upper epiphysis of the radius. Several cases of fracture of the head or neck of the radius have been put upon record. Annandale5 has reported three. In one, a man aged 48 struck his wrist against his knee; three months later, his elbow being disabled, an incision was made, and the loose fragment was removed. In another, a young woman fell and struck her elbow; nine months afterward, the joint being firmly fixed in the straight position, the head of the radius, broken off and split into two pieces, was excised, with a good result. The third case was similar to the last, the specimen only being mentioned. Stimson6 gives the case of a man in whom this injury was compli- cated with a fracture of the coronoid process; in the third week arthrot- omy was performed, and the head and neck of the radius were re- moved ; a good recovery ensued, with flexion to 45°, pronation complete, but supination limited. Another like case, in a lady aged 26, is re- corded by Clieyne.7 Delorme 6 saw a case diagnosed as “partial longi- tudinal fracture of the head of the radius,” in which perfect recovery ensued. In a case reported by Felkin 9 the patient, a woman aged 21, fell with her whole weight on her elbow, and sustained a fracture of the radius an inch below its head; the ulnar nerve was also dislocated for- ward, and had to be replaced by operation. Stimson 10 mentions a curious case in which a boy of 13 had the outer half of the head of the radius detached by a blow from the runner of a sled. The diagnosis was verified upon the excision of the joint, made necessary by suppurative arthritis. Another instance, in which the 1 New York Med. Journal, May 7, 1887. 3 Lancet, May 3, 1884. 6 Ibid. 7 British Med. Journal, March 7, 1891. 9 Edinburgh Med. Journal, July, 1887. 5 British Med. Journal, March 17, 1888. 4 Edinburgh Med. Journal, Feb., 1885. 6 New York Med. Journal, Nov. 24, 1888. 8 Gaz. des Hopitaux, 17 Mars, 1891. 10 Treatise on Fractures, p. 433.