INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 976 partial amputations of the penis should be abandoned. There are three things that it is desirable to hear in mind in amputating the penis for malignant disease. First, to remove the growth in such a manner as to render the patient least liable to a recurrence. Second, to so operate as to prevent after-trouble from the contraction of the new meatus. Third, to so place the new meatus as to enable the patient to pass his urine with the least amount of discomfort. Amputations of the penis are composed of two classes: in one, the dis- ease being near the extremity of the organ, the amputation is done in front of the pubes; in the other, the incision is carried farther back, involving the scrotum and perineum. The use of the ecraseur, whether that of Chassaignac or the galvanic instrument, has been practically abandoned, as has also the method of Sir William Fergusson of severing the penis with a single sweep of the knife. Smyly 1 first advised uniting the mucous membrane of the cut urethra to the skin; Erichsen followed his example, as did Demarquay and others. Demarquay made lateral flaps and left the urethra longer than the cavernous bodies, splitting it above and below, and sewing the mucous membrane to the skin. This is essentially the operation as it is done to- day. Some modify the procedure by making a single flap. The credit of this is given by Mr. Jacobson to Professor Miller, of Edinburgh, who made a long flap from the under surface of the penis. Mr. Jacobson himself prefers to make a long dorsal flap. The urethra, which is left a half or three-quarters of an inch longer than the cavernous bodies, is brought through a hole pierced in the flap, and the mucous membrane is stitched to the skin. Dr. Ashhurst attributes this piercing of the flap to Professor Watson, of Edinburgh. Another modification is that of Dr. Keller,2 of St. Louis. He makes side flaps, unites the cut cor- pora cavernosa in front by deep transverse catgut sutures, and then adds a second vertical row of stitches through the skin. Sir William Mac- Cormac3 has shown that carcinomatous infiltration is more marked and progresses farther in the corpora cavernosa than in the spongy portion; so that the danger of recurrence is not made as much greater by the increased length of the urethra as might be expected. He found this condition to be present in all five of his cases. Thiersch in 1865,4 with the ideaof making urination more convenient, advised isolating the urethra and fastening it into the lower part of the wound. Curtis6 went a step further and made an incision on the an- terior surface of the scrotum, into which he laid the long stump of the urethra, this being slit up to make a large meatus. The patient was thus enabled to throw a stream about two feet away from his feet, and there was no excoriation from dribbling, as occurs when the urethra is high up. When simple amputation through the continuity of the penis is not advisable and it is necessary to go farther, then a much more extensive operation is required. The names of several surgeons have of recent years been associated with these operations, but this is hardly doing justice to their predecessors. Wedemeyer6 gives the history of some of these earlier procedures. He states that Delpech, in 1832, brought 1 Dublin Medical Press, 1839. - Brun’s Beitriige zur klin. Chirg., 1889, Bd. iv., Heft 2. 3 British Medical Journal, 1886, vol. i., p. 343. 4 Der Epithelialkrebs, S. 288. 5 Annals of Surgery, 1894, p. 178. 6 Archiv der Heilkunde, 1877, S. 563.