ERYSIPELAS. 83 with phlegmons and gangrene. It is the more difficult, as we have no means by which to discriminate distinctly between Fehleisen’s coccus of erysipelas and the usual streptococcus pyogenes, a differentiation which has been given up entirely by most bacteriologists. Therefore, phlegmonous and gangrenous erysipe- las very often has nothing at all to do with erysipelas proper, hut comes un- der the head of septicaemia and pyse- mia. If we read the histories of the cases reported byvonPitha, which are generally declared to give most exact and definite descriptions of this form of erysipelas, we cannot be in doubt that we should class all these cases nowadays as examples of septicaemia. Nevertheless, there are a number of cases which must be classed, not as instances of mixed infection, but as cases of true, genuine erysipelas. The explanation of the formation of abscesses has to be given in the fol- lowing manner: the usual way for propagation of erysipelas being by the lymphatic ducts, we usually see erysipelas spread on the surface, but if the cocci get into the blood, as it has been proven that they do in some cases, the formation of abscesses in the tissues surrounding the primary spot of infection, or even at more or less remote places, cannot be surprising. We must, however, always bear in mind that this is not the usual course, but an exception to the rule. The rapidity with which erysipelatous inflammation spreads is very variable; sometimes it moves within twenty-four hours from half an inch to an inch, sometimes as much as ten inches. In typical, uncom- plicated cases, which are by far the most frequent, inflammatory red- Fig. 1582. a & 5° V" HOOr Chains of Cocci, a, Cocci of erysipelas: 6, cocci of phlegmonous inflammation. (After Rosenbach.) x 963. No. 1.—Fever-curve of erysipelas of two days’ duration, with typical quick defervescence. No. 2.—Fever- curve of erysipelas with recurrence after transient defervescence. Cure. dening and swelling pass into a complete restitutio ad integrum, with- out leaving any trace whatsoever of the process which has taken place. Sometimes, however, abscesses are formed even in the deeper layers of tissue, but only in cases of mixed infection by streptococci and other bacteria.