DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 836 Carcinoma of the Breast. Most of the published work upon mammary tumors has been done in connection with breast cancer, its etiology and operative treatment. In methods of operating the practice of ten years ago has been extremely modified, especially with regard to the extent and completeness of the procedure. A further improvement, common to all operations, has been in the thoroughness of aseptic details—as contrasted with an- tiseptic—with a marked diminution in the immediate mortality of the operation. The number of permanent cures has increased in an en- couraging ratio. Not that the results of the most thorough modern operation afford a large percentage of permanent cures, yet the re- mark of S. D. Gross, made thirty years ago, is no longer true,—that is, that nothing is more unpromising than surgical interference in cases of breast cancer, though life may be prolonged from six to eighteen months. Not only is life prolonged in recurring cases, but the per- centage of permanent cures is very much increased by the complete- ness of the operations now recommended. Diagnosis of Mammary Carcinoma.—Unless we follow the rule to operate in all doubtful tumors, it is very desirable to demonstrate by •incision the exact nature of the growth. For purposes of exploration, Mixter, of Boston, has devised a small hollow punch, with a circular cutting edge, by means of which a small section of the whole thickness of a tumor may be withdrawn for microscopic examination. Yet the objection common to all simple explorations applies to this method—• the probability of overlooking a focus of malignancy in an otherwise benign growth. Tumors of doubtful nature, therefore, especially in women after the age of forty, should be investigated more thoroughly than can be done by a small incision or by an exploratory punch. The importance of “skin dimpling” in carcinoma of the breast is urged by Tiffany.1 This symptom may occur when the original focus of disease is so small that attention has not been drawn to it. It is almost pathognomonic of cancer, and is rarely multiple. The dimple is most commonly seen in fibrous carcinoma, and is due to shortening of the connective-tissue processes. This symptom, even with no other signs, justifies immediate operation. Enlarged glands in the axilla are usually regarded as demonstrating the malignancy of breast tumors, but Warren2 calls attention to the occasional tumors of the sweat glands which may simulate enlarged lymph glands. Stiles3 speaks of fatty involuted lymph glands, imperceptible through the skin, which, when the axilla has been opened, resemble malignant glands. In stout women these glands resemble fat lobules, and may be overlooked. Prognosis of Mammary Carcinoma.—The immediate mortality from the modern operation has much diminished in the last decade. The objections formerly raised against extensive dissections no longer rest upon a large death-rate. The mortality as reported from different sources in the past ten years is shown in the following table:— 1 Maryland Med. Jour., vol. xxvi., p. 309. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., July 5, 1894. 3 Loc. cit., p. 33.