EXTIRPATION OE THE UTERUS. 1037 1 Willems, op. cit. others, Bardenhauer and Roux, of Lausanne, removed the coccyx and all of the sacrum below the third sacral foramina. Hegar modified the operation by including the bony tissues, which others removed, in a flap, which was pushed to one side until the uterus had been extirpated, and was then restored to its proper place. The usual method, after temporary or final resection of the coccyx and the inferior extremity of the sacrum,'1 is to pass along the side of the rectum until the recto-vaginal cul-de-sac is reached, to open it, and then to draw the uterus posteriorly, dividing the broad ligaments from above, and applying ligatures; the uterus is then retroverted so as to come into the sacral wound, and finally the cervix is forced anteriorly by cutting from above downward in the vesico-uterine space. Willems states that the great advantage of this operation is the ex- tent of the operatory field furnished—in the cadaver, the uterus being of normal volume, all the internal genital organs are plainly disclosed; the fundus and the posterior face of the uterus, the broad ligaments, the tubes and the ovaries, are visible in all their details, and even the anterior wall of the abdomen above the bladder. It should be remembered that this is a much more grave operation than vaginal hysterectomy, for it is long, Czerny stating that upon the average it lasts two hours, and is attended with considerable bleeding. Pozzi thus speaks of the method: It affords “a valuable resource for cases in which the uterus is too large, or the vagina too narrow to al- low access by the natural passage. But this newly-devised method of facilitating an operation will not alter the limits which I have laid down as those within which one must keep in performing hysterectomy. Whenever the cancer has spread beyond the limits of the uterus, one should refrain from attempting total extirpation.” Martin, in the recently issued last edition of his work upon diseases of women, briefly refers to this method, but adds that he has never em- ployed it.