8 INFLAMMATION. position. The studies of chemiotaxis have shed much light upon the mode of action of these substances. The tissues of the wound should be handled so as to interfere as little as possible with their vital capacity to overcome bacteria.” In the preceding passages and quotations, I have endeavored to state as clearly as possible such modifications of and additions to the views in regard to inflammation taken in the articles by Strieker and Van Buren, as*'seemed to he necessary in the light of the newer re- searches upon the subject. Immunity and Phagocytosis. Closely allied is the doctrine of immunity and phagocytosis, as fur- nishing a possible explanation of many of the phenomena seen in the processes under discussion, and without a somewhat full explanation of the present position of pathology in regard to these, it will not be possible to understand their full significance. I am convinced that the doctrine of phagocytosis and the work of Metchnikoff in connection with it, have not received the recognition that they really deserve, and even if the doctrine be not so wide-sweeping in its applicability as this author feels, nevertheless its value is very great. William Hunter,1 speaking of phagocytosis and immunity, comes to the following conclusions as expressing the chief grounds upon which he considers that the doctrine claims a greater credence than has been given to it by the school which has Klein at its head:— He is disposed to claim for it, that in revealing the power possessed by the cells of themselves opposing the attacks of virulent bacteria, it has not only added much that is new, but is also valuable and important as explaining the means by Avhich infectious disease is combated; and that our knowledge of the bactericidal properties of blood serum, to which so much importance is attached by the opponents of the phagocytic theory, is itself the direct outcome of the atten- tion drawn by Metchnikoff to the action of cells. So far from being antago- nistic, the two doctrines, the phagocytic and the Immoral, mutually supplement and support each other. Both theories recognize the existence of antitoxic and antibiotic substances in blood serum and blood plasma, but it is, in Hunter’s opinion, the peculiar merit of the phagocytic as opposed to the humoral doc- trine, that it subordinates their interest and importance to the action of the cells from which they admittedly derive their origin. He is disposed to claim for the phagocytic theory, that, while it does not profess, as its opponents assert, to be in any way a complete or satisfactory explanation of the phenomena of im- munity, yet as a working hypothesis, and it is that which we must first look for, it is in all respects more logical, more tenable, more in consonance with the teachings of cellular pathology, and almost more biological, than that which ascribes to the fluids of the body the first role in protecting it against infectious disease. Considered apart from the teachings of phagocytosis, the humoral doctrine has as its chief characteristic, in Hunter’s opinion, a self-satisfying sufficiency, for which there is no real basis. It appears to explain, without explaining. It speaks much of antibiotic and antitoxic substances in the fluids of the body, and is apparently content to rest there. It does not ignore their origin from cells, indeed cannot possibly do so, but, unlike the doctrine of phagocytosis, it does not encourage further inquiry into the nature of the changes of cells 1 British Medical Journal. 1892.