DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 518 Fig. 1671. hesions have been broken up as much as possible with the hands, the apparatus is applied with the leg flexed. The posterior band (d) is then screwed forward, and the leg straightened intermittently, by the use of the long lever. A dressing of plaster-of-Paris is afterward applied. This apparatus not only straightens the leg, but tends to correct the subluxation of the tibia as well. (4) An apparatus known as the Billroth splint is used at the Hospital for the Ruptured and Crippled, in New York, to straighten these limbs by gradual and gentle force, without the use of ether. A plaster bandage is applied to the limb, and in this bandage are incorporated two hinges attached to broad curved iron plates. These hinges are placed over the lateral aspects of the joint, allowing anterior-posterior motion. The bandage is allowed to harden, and then a circular division of the Billroth's Knee-spimt. piasfcer js mac]e at the level of the knee, and the front of the bandage over the knee is cut away. Into the transverse slit at the back of the knee are inserted wedges of increasing size, until the limb is straight. The splint exercises considerable pressure. (Fig. 1671.) The Thomas knee-splint has been advocated as a means of straightening the knee by fixing the thigh and pulling the leg forward by bandages passing behind the calf. In my own hands it has proved more often a source of irritation to the knee than a means of cure. (5) Correction of flexion during the acute stage by traction made in the line of deformity is by far the most satisfactory method, as well as the safest; and the splint which is used for this purpose is, to my mind, by far the best apparatus for routine employ- ment in tumor albus. It provides three things—protection from weight- bearing, fixation of the diseased joint, and traction in any desired line. In principle it is practically like the long traction splint jointed at the knee. From Fig. 1672 it can be seen to consist of a pelvic band, an outside upright jointed at the knee, and a traction foot-piece; an inside upright reaches from the foot- piece nearly to the adductor tendons, but is not es- sential, and is used merely to steady and strengthen the apparatus. The disc at the knee-joint in the outer upright is perforated with screw-holes, so that the splint may form any desired fixed angle at the knee. Leather lacings fix the thigh and calf of the leg. Sticking- plaster extension bands, attached below the knee, pull downward by winding the windlass, while plas- Tease‘of thSePKnee-joiut.s"