PYLORECTOMY AND GASTRO-ENTEROSTOMY. 861 moval has resulted in a fair percentage of recoveries, when the patients would certainly have died had only medical treatment been contin- ued. As to the mode of removing the appendix, there is perhaps no better method than that of placing a temporary ligature around it near its attachment to the caecum, after having tied off its mesentery and thus controlled the vessels; then making a flap of the peritoneal coat, in- vaginating it with three or four fine sutures, loosening the temporary ligature, and inserting the stump within the caecum, the peritoneal surfaces of which are finally themselves brought together. In this manner the peritoneum, if slightly roughened, very quickly takes on adhesive inflammation, and the entire appendix is obliterated. Cholecystotomy. In relation to this subject much has been added during the past ten years. Surgeons have been able to reach the bile ducts and gall blad- der with a greater degree of freedom than heretofore, owing to the little danger of peritonitis when the operation is thoroughly aseptic; the results, however, in reference to biliary fistula, have not been alto- gether satisfactory. In some cases the discharge has been a great annoyance to the patient, and has continued, notwithstanding ef- forts made toward its closure, or to relieve stenosis of the common duct. Attempts have been made by various surgeons to establish a direct communication between the common duct or gall bladder and the small intestine, and cholecyst enter ostomy is apparently becoming an established operation in suitable cases. The reports made thus far of the use of the Murphy button in these cases have certainly been very encouraging, and it is an appliance which should be employed under certain restrictions. When the gall bladder is distended, there is very little difficulty in making an anastomosis between it and either the large or the small intestine, and when there is a moderate dilatation of the cystic duct this may be used satisfactorily for the same purpose. This method should certainly be adopted when there is complete stenosis of the common duct. Incision of the gall bladder or ducts, with removal of the obstruction and immediate closure, is now again receiving much successful attention. Pylorectomy and Gastro-Enterostomy. Regarding the operations of pylorectomy and gastro-enterostomy, there can be no doubt that the former has made little permanent impres- sion upon the practical surgeon. There are a certain number of cases— not many—in which the operation can be done successfully, and prob- ably the use of the Murphy button would be of benefit in them. In cases where the tumor or other pathological condition can be removed, requiring extensive section of the stomach, it is best to close the open- ing in this viscus and establish a direct anastomosis independently between some other portion of the organ and the upper end of the duodenum.