HYDROPHOBIA. 133 very state during the interval which separates the time of biting from that of invasion. There has appeared upon the scene another claimant, not only as a prophylactic but as a curative process, in the action of gastric juice upon the cords of infected rabbits, as proposed originally by Eusebio Yalli, and since adopted by Centanni. The emulsion, thus prepared, is said to arrest the progress of rabies in rabbits which have been under its influence for six days, while animals subjected to the opera- tion of the same virus without its antidotal effect die within seventeen to.eighteen days. Tizzoni and Centanni concluded from their experi- ments that the disease already developed in rabbits was cured by inoc- ulation with this matter; and the inference drawn from these results encourages a resort to this injection in human beings who have been bitten by mad dogs or other rabid animals, and who have already the premonitory symptoms of hydrophobia. It is held to be not simply protective, but to be curative in its action. My personal observation extends to three cases of hydrophobia treated in Brazil, during my residence in that country, and I am able to add to these the report made of a case in this country, since return- ing, which I was called upon to investigate by Mr. Henry W. Grady for the Atlanta Constitution. The first case occurred in the person of a white boy, eight years old, at the City of Campinas, in the province of San Paulo, Brazil. He was bitten by a dog, which presented all the characteristics of rabies, on the 28th of June, 1882, and was brought to my office shortly afterward, with the blood still oozing from the tooth-wounds upon his leg. After washing thoroughly the parts, I gave directions to have each of the openings and the abrasions of the skin well cau- terized with strong nitric acid. The father of the boy was then instructed to await developments, and in the event of further trouble to let me know promptly of any disturbances. On the last day of August, sixty-four days after the bite was inflicted, I was called at 4 a.m., with the statement that the boy had been nauseated, with retching, on the previous day, but had been unable to bring up anything. My son, Dr. T. D. Gaston, was dispatched at once to see the patient, and finding him in a state of great agitation and restlessness, he administered by inhalation, at short intervals, four ounces of chloroform, before any material relief was afforded. I saw him with my son at 10 a.m., and found the boy writhing with spasmodic contractions of almost every muscle of his body, and constant convulsive movements of the arms and legs, with hideous contortions of his face. He would cry out as if in great pain, when the spasm was intensified, and spring up in the bed, spitting from the mouth foam mixed with blood. While his mental faculties were greatly excited, he was not delirious, but seemed conscious of passing events, and answered questions understanding^ as to his sensations. Upon giving him a cup with water, there was an aggravation of the convulsive movements, and yet he attempted to drink without the ability to swallow. The cup, being seized with his hands, was turned up, so as to spill out the water from his lips; and yet none of it went down his throat. Morphine having been given without effect, the use of garlic was resorted to in- ternally and externally, as I had read an account of a man with hydrophobia having been shut up in a room where, suspended on the walls, was a quantity of garlic, which was ravenously eaten with salutary result. This boy ate the garlic freely, and even asked for more when the first portion was consumed. It was beaten up also and applied over his chest and bowels in the form of poultices, while a decoction of the garlic was used as an enema.