475 ACTINOMYCOSIS OF THE BONES. Fig. 1636 Actinomyces—Unstained. ■m (von Jaksch. j while, with the knowledge of these, Langenbeck concluded that a case which he had observed thirty years before at Kiel was of the same character. In recent years numerous publications on the subject have appeared, and the disease is now fairly well understood. It is a curious fact that actinomycosis in man does not present manifestations like those seen in neat cat- tle. In oxen, the disease is known as “lumpy-jaw,” because it is marked by swelling of the lower jaw- bone. In man, no enlarge- ment of the hones occurs in actinomycosis, which has been observed in the jaw- bone, the vertebrae, the ribs, the clavicle, and the pelvis. The parasite is a peculiar fungus, consisting of a sort of stalk, with club-shaped, radiating buds. Its general appearance is seen in Fig. 1636. The progress of the disease is always from the soft parts to the bones. In the former there is a sort of abscess cavity, in appearance not unlike the ordinary ossifluent abscess, which on reaching the periosteum de- stroys this, and proceeds to attack the bone, which it invades by a process of erosion and caries. An illustration of the action of ac- tinomycosis upon the bodies of the vertebrae is seen in Fig. 1637. In the case here illus- trated, the bones were saturated with pus, so that it could be squeezed out of them as if from a sponge. Actinomycosis may suc- cessively invade one part after another of a bone, and pass from one bone to another through a joint. It is a characteristic of this disorder that its progress does not ex- cite the reaction of irritation. Nowhere does the bone oppose its progress by the formation of a wall of inflammatory new tissue; on the contrary, the bone shows progressive rare- faction and caries, but never sclerosis or the formation of osteophytes. The lesion of actinomycosis is a species of abscess or cyst, containing usually a sero- purulent fluid, and bearing upon its wall, or containing in its cavity, certain granules of a yellowish color looking something like mustard seeds. These consist of an aggre- gation of small spherical masses, made up of pear-shaped agglomera- tions arranged radially about a centre. The general appearance of Fig. 1637. Actinomycosis of Vertebrae, golphe.) (Gan-