DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. G75 cal trephine on the turbinated bone until the duct is reached, and then cuts out the sides of the duct until the probe, which has been entered from above, is exposed. This gives a free outlet for the fluids and the case is then easily treated. However, the progress of cases of lach- rymal obstruction is frequently unsatisfactory, partly because they are not seen by the surgeon until considerable mischief has been done, and again because the treatment is necessarily protracted and many patients become discouraged. Therefore, when the patient lives at a distance, of is unable to continue treatment, or when for any other cause this can- not be followed systematically, it is better to slit the lower canaliculus and teach him to use a probe on himself. In such cases a No. 3 Bow- man probe should be selected. When the conservative plan of treat- ment is adopted, the canaliculus should first be cocainized, and a small silver probe should then be introduced into the sac and followed by the small nozzle of a syringe through which cocaine may be injected into the sac and duct. It will generally be found that the probe now passes ■easily into the nose. The waste ways being open, the cleansing fluid (solutions of bichloride of mercury 1 in 8000 or 1 in 10,000, boric acid and salt, peroxide of hydrogen, or simple salt) may be syringed through. The peroxide of hydrogen has the advantage of hunting out all the pus, and especially when infiltration has occurred. These cleansings should be continued daily until all discharge ceases. At the same time the patient may supplement the treatment by using at home any of the above-named solutions in the cul-de-sac, or mildly astringent washes, among which may be mentioned alum in the distilled infusion of witch-hazel. Pyoktanin (1-1000) has been advised, but it is only in chronic cases that any good can be expected from its use, and even then it is uncertain. In cases where no benefit results from treatment, the sac may be excised or destroyed by the actual cautery. For excision a cut should be made directly down upon the sac, which is then seized by forceps and dissected out. Syphilitic cases are treated by mercury and iodide of potassium, and usually respond promptly. Diseases of the Conjunctiva. Conjunctivitis.—For the milder forms of conjunctivitis which are caused by the irritating influences of cold, dust, or light, non-irritating washes are by far the most useful, and are followed by the best results. Bathing the conjunctiva with boiled water, or spraying and douching with the same, either cold or warm according to circumstances, will often afford much relief and be all the treatment that is necessary. For catarrhal inflammation and blepharitis, thorough cleansing with boiled water and castile soap several times a day, with the alternate use of the boric acid and salt solution, usually quells the inflammation. The stronger astringent solutions of nitrate of silver, zinc, alum, copper, and tannin are apt to increase the irritation in acute cases and are therefore contra-indicated, but for chronic cases they are very useful. The solutions of nitrate of silver are still the most highly prized, and are used in varying strengths, gr. |~gr. x. to f 3 i. Only in the very severe cases will the stronger solutions be necessary. At times acute