TREPHINING FOR CONGENITAL CEREBRAL PALSIES. 623 and less severe. In a case under my own care, in which the athetosis is limited to the left arm, and in which the cause has probably been a small hemorrhage into the internal capsule, catching the fibres from the corpora quadrigemina and producing an irregular hemianopsia, I have not thus far thought it right to operate on the brain. The patient is an adult and still finds the arm somewhat useful. I stretched the brachial plexus above the clavicle, but the operation was not followed by any improvement. When the disease arises in childhood, especially in connection with the cerebral palsies of children, I should certainly advise against operation, with our present knowledge. It is, however, but just to say that our experience is as yet too limited for us to be dogmatic. Trephining for Arrested Development. Sometimes a case of arrested development is distinctly traumatic in origin. For these cases there is some hope of relief, but where the con- dition arises as a congenital defect it is very doubtful whether operation should be attempted. Dr. Felkin and Mr. Hare1 report the case of a girl of IT who had had her skull fractured at the age of 10 months, fol- lowed by paralysis and imperfect development of the right arm and leg. At the operation a cyst was found, two inches in depth, with an osteo- phyte half an inch long. The lesion being extra-dural, the membrane was not opened. Marked improvement followed the operation. I have operated, much against my will, in a case of arrested development2 in which I found great atrophy of the central portion of the left hemi- sphere. The patient died immediately after the operation. I had at first refused to interfere, but afterward unwisely yielded to the importu- nities of the parents. Certainly no operation whatever could have done this child, or any other similarly affected, any good. The cause of the atrophy was a thrombus, or possibly an embolus, in the middle cerebral artery, and all the area supplied by this artery was wasted. Trephining for Congenital Cerebral Palsies. Two of the best recent non-surgical papers on the cerebral palsies of childhood are by Osier3 and by M. Allen Starr.4 The conclusions reached by both these authors are on the whole against operation, al- though Osier records a case operated on by Morton in which some im- provement followed, and Starr gives a qualified approval to occasional interference. In a few cases, especially those in which hemorrhage is the cause, an immediate operation might be of value; but in 313 cases Starr has only reported 18 of this character. The great majority, 239 cases, were due to porencephalus and sclerotic atrophy, in not a few of a very extensive character. The difficulties surrounding diagnosis are such that it is almost impossible in any given case to say just what the condition is. But as such chronic cases are incurable by medi- cine; as it is impossible without an exploratory operation to deter- 1 Manchester Med. Chron., Oct., 1891, p. 17. 2 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, Sept., 1891, p. 235. 3 Med. News, 1888, vol. xxxiii., p. 29 etseg. 4 Med. Record, Jan. 23, 1892, p. 85.