647 DISLOCATIONS, FRACTURES, AND FRACTURE-DISLOCATIONS. mined, but a review of the histories indicates that asepsis is as potent to prevent inflammation of the cord and its membranes, as well as sup- puration of the wound, as it is to prevent similar complications of wounds of other regions; that serious hemorrhage is not to be feared, although one of the deaths appears to have been caused by it; and that the loss of cerebro-spinal liquid is without important consequences. Moreover, the removal of the spinous processes and laminae of even sev- eral adjoining vertebrae does not appear seriously to weaken the spinal column. This seems satisfactorily to remove the objection against in- terference based upon the theory that in itself it seriously endangers the patient’s life, and relieves its advocates from the necessity of show- ing great gains to compensate for great risks. Even small gains may be a sufficient justification. The indications for operation are to relieve pressure upon the cord by fragments, by the displaced vertebrae, or by extravasated blood, and, if necessary and practicable, to correct deformity. The relief of pressure upon the cord in order to favor the re-establishment of function and oppose secondary ascending degeneration, is the chief, and practically the only, indication. The question before us, then, is: to what extent are we justified in believing that this indication can be met by opera- tion? Until within a few years it was very generally believed that, in almost all cases of fracture, the pressure was made upon the front of the cord by the upper edge of the body of the vertebra across which it was stretched by the bodily displacement forward of the'next upper ver- tebra, and the inaccessibility of this projecting edge was one of the reasons urged against operation. Later investigations have shown that the proportion of cases in which the fracture is limited to the laminae, and in which the pressure is made by a depressed portion of the posterior arch, is very much larger than was supposed, and several operations have shown that even in the other and commoner form the resection of the posterior arch of the upper vertebra, the one that has been displaced forward, will sometimes relieve the pressure upon the cord, which is pinched between this arch and the underlying verte- bral body rather than stretched across the latter. In such cases the operation is fully competent to relieve. When the pressure is made by blood extravasated within the canal, or within the dura, the operation is also competent to relieve, but it is powerless against hemorrhage into the central canal or into the substance of the cord. In respect of the degenerative changes in the cord set up by the traumatism, it can only be said that in some cases they begin promptly, advance rapidly, and do not disappear on the removal of pressure, while in others marked improvement has set in after the lapse of many weeks. Possibly in the first group the original injury has been a crush or laceration of the cord, not simply its compression. Examination of the results according to the region involved shows that the proportion of successes is very much greater in injuries of the lumbar and lower dorsal vertebme than in those at higher points. In- juries of the cauda equina resemble those of peripheral nerves rather than those of the cord, and the hope of restoration of function after the relief of pressure is much greater. So, too, in injuries of the lower por- tion of the cord, while the cord itself may be permanently disabled, the enveloping nerves originating at higher points may regain their function.