DISEASES OF BONES. 476 such a granule under a low power of the microscope is seen in Fig 1638. To examine such a granule, it is sometimes necessary only to press it out under a cover-glass, while at times the surrounding viscid fluid must be dissolved with a little liquor potassse. The contents of the actinomycosis cyst or cavity are sometimes viscid and serous, sometimes sero - purulent, and sometimes exclusively purulent. In the latter case it has been found that the detritus shows evidence of mixed infection, and the presence of staphylococci and streptococci of different varieties. The usual mode of entrance of actinomycosis is by way of an in- jury within the mouth, caused sometimes by rough teeth, or, in cattle, by the lacerations produced by hard and sharp-edged food. It is stated that actinomycosis has been communicated from an ani- mal to man, as reported by Hart- mann and by one or two other observers cited by Gangolphe. Gangolphe failed in attempts to inoculate animals with actinomycosis, using the products of the lesions for the inoculation. Diagnosis.—The abscesses connected with actinomycosis resemble in many respects those of tuberculosis, being of an indolent character, of slow development, and unmarked by signs of constitutional reaction. In this respect they are not unlike the forms of hydatid of the bones in which the soft parts are invaded. The diagnosis is likely to rest upon the history of the case and the presence of some injury connected with the mouth, together with the appearances found in the sac when this comes to be opened. Prognosis.-—The prognosis of actinomycosis varies according to the situation of the lesions. The tendency of the disease to progress is decided, hut this tendency can be overcome by means of radical operations. Treatment.—The treatment of actinomycosis is very much the same as that of hydatids, namely, free removal of all the diseased tissue. This must be followed up in all its anfractuosities, and the eradication practised must be of the most thorough sort. This may require the re- moval of a considerable portion of the soft tissues or of the bone, and should he followed up, in many cases, by an application of caustic liquids, such as a solution of chloride of zinc, or even by the application of the hot iron. The latter, besides being a most potent disinfectant, serves also to excite an irritation of the surrounding bone, which may cause the formation of an inflammatory barrier of new tissue against Fig. 1638. Actinomycosis Granule, (von Jakscli.)