WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 46 and they also showed how difficult a task it was to dislodge the latter by mechanical means. It was a notable fact, which Kiimmel first observed, that the same method of cleansing and sterilizing his hands would not in one instance interfere with primary union of wounds, but would invariably in another lead to the development of at least a few germs in the culture-media. We may very correctly conclude from this that not all the germs upon our hands are pathogenic, and also that the living tissues under normal conditions can pre- vent their further development. The question, whether or not sterilization of the hands soon after their contamination with septic material is possible, is one of grave importance to the surgeon and obstetrician. Kiimmel came to the conclusion that under ordinary cir- cumstances a thorough cleansing with soap and wrater, followed by im- mersion and rubbing in a 6-1000 solution of thymol, a 1-1000 solu- tion of the bichloride, or a 3-100 solution of carbolic acid, was a sufficient guarantee for all practical purposes. In order to prevent with absolute certainty any development in culture-media, however, it was found nec- essary to use a 5-100 solution of carbolic acid, or a mixture of equal parts of chlorine water and water. But, when the hands had been infected at the post mortem table, or by a septic wound, then the above method was not sufficient to accomplish complete sterilization, and this was only attained after wTashing the hands for five minutes with soap and water, and then for two minutes in the clilorine-water solution. To Fuerbringer undoubtedly belongs the credit of having first called the attention of surgeons to the necessity and the difficulty of thorough disinfection of the fingers in the vicinity of the nails. Even after most careful application of the then known methods of disinfection, Fuer- bringer was always able to obtain cultures from scrapings taken from beneath the nails. The result of his researches was that much more effective sterilization was possible, when the hands after cleansing with soap and water were immersed in alcohol, before an antiseptic was ap- plied to them. He gives the following as the best mode of disinfection: After thorough mechanical cleaning of the nails, which ought always to he cut very short, the hands should be washed for one minute with soap and water; then for one minute more in alcohol (not less than 80 per cent.); then the alcohol is allowed to evaporate and the hands are im- mersed in the antiseptics (3-100 carbolic acid or 2-1000 corrosive-subli- mate solution) and washed well for another minute, using sterilized nail- brushes for all these manipulations. Some doubt has been expressed as to the efficiency of alcohol, and it has been asserted that it makes the skin brittle and deadens sensation. These exceptions do not, however, appear to be well taken, and it must be regarded as an idiosyncrasy if alcohol so unfavorably affects some hands, something that is true of other disinfectants to a much greater extent. The different effect of carbolic acid and of sublimate on the skin of different individuals is too well known to need repetition. Geppert has shown that chlorine is one of the most powerful germicides, and consequently recommends it for the disinfection of hands. A paste containing chlorinated lime is rubbed into the hands, and these are then placed in a 2-per-cent, solu- tion of hydrochloric acid, where they remain for two minutes, until the separation of chlorine ceases. They are then wTashed in a solution of hyposulphite of sodium, and finally in sterilized water. This method,