TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BONES. 463 is for some irritant, presumably tubercle bacilli, to provoke an excessive activity of the physiological processes, with the result of the formation, on the one hand, of imperfectly developed tissue, and, on the other hand, of hardening in the surrounding region. This is followed by solu- tion, not only of the first-formed tissue, but also of that which surrounds it. In certain cases the limiting wall soon proves sufficient to restrict the process; in other cases this wall succumbs to tlie irritation of the disease, and another one is formed beyond it, which in turn gives way to still another. In such cases the originally affected tissue may re- main as a small sequestrum in a comparatively large cavity. There is no good reason for believing that sequestra shut up and bathed in pus are ever dissolved thereby. A section through a typical tuberculous focus includes an outer zone, a middle zone, and a central area. In the first are found engorgement of blood-vessels, proliferation of the cellular elements of the tissue, and some tuberculous follicles. The general color of this zone is red. The middle zone is that in which the tuberculous deposits are most numer- ous. This area is semi-transparent, and but slightly red in color. The interspaces of the tissue are occupied by a gelatinous mass, compared to frog-spawn. In the central zone there is an ulcerated condition, with breaking down of the trabeculae, and often with the presence of small detached pieces of bone—sequestra. With these general statements it may be worth while to repeat that, in diseases of bone, the general characteristics are dependent upon the specific character of the malady; the histological changes which take place are those common to certain well-understood processes. Thus in tuberculous osteitis, there is, first, hyperaemia; then the formation of granulation tissue, with condensation on the one hand, or solution and re-infection on the other. The seat of greatest activity is in the middle area, between that re- cently attacked and that which has already borne the onset. In this process the anatomical elements of the bone act in accordance with their physiological properties: osteoblasts contributing to the produc- tion of resistant tissue, and osteoclasts advancing the process of solu- tion. The early death of any considerable portion of the bony tissue leaves this like a foreign body in the centre of a cavity, which fits it closely or loosely according to circumstances, and which in either case makes what Frank1 has picturesquely called a “coffin for the se- questrum.” The processes of tuberculosis include caries as well as necrosis, and the cavities in the bone may contain a fine sandy material consisting of very small portions of dead bone-tissue, or nothing but a gelati- nous or puriform fluid. As in all forms of osteitis, tuberculous osteitis may be strictly localized, or it may be scattered over a considerable space. It may be primary, or it may give rise to secondary metastatic infection of the bone, or even of remote organs. The results of tuberculous os- teitis may be destruction of considerable portions of bone, spontaneous fractures due to weakening of the bones, collapse of their articular ends, infection of the joints, or burrowing of pus and the formation of abscess-cavities in the soft parts, as is seen in cases of psoas abscess caused by caries of the vertebrte. Tuberculous osteitis resembles 1 Grundriss der Chirurgie. Stuttgart, 1893.