INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1024 tinuous catgut suture, uniting in successive stages the tissues, Etagen- naht, is used to first lessen the freshened surface and then finally to close the perineum. The annexed figures show the catgut suturing. The after-treatment is, according to Martin, chiefly expectant. The patient’s limbs are tied together, and she remains on her back for 17 or 19 days. A low bed-pan is used, if needed; retention of urine requires the catheter, carefully employed by a skilful hand; from the fourth day evacuation of the bowels is effected by castor oil, infusion of senna, or neutral salt. The vagina is not irrigated at all, but the vulva is washed after each urination. The patient may be at perfect liberty of move- ment at the end of two months, but sexual intercourse and hard labor ought to be avoided for two or three months after this. Sanger’s Method of Flap-Splitting Perineorrhaphy. This plan is indicated for simple perineal laceration, in any degree, when uncomplicated by prolapsus or other deformity. The patient having been prepared for operation, anaesthetized, and placed in the extreme lithotomy Fig. 1774. CM position, a well-anointed cotton tampon, with cord attached, is passed into the rectum; this pro- trudes the posterior vaginal wall and protects the field of operation from faecal masses. The index and middle fingers of the left hand, placed within the bowel, now stretch the site to be re- paired, while an assistant holds apart the labia majora. The recto-vaginal septum is divided transversely (Fig. 1774), the sharp points of the angular scissors (held horizontally) en- tering the median line at a point exactly between the posterior margin of the vagina and the anterior margin of the anal ori- fice. The blades, inserted to a depth of three-fifths of an inch, cut four-fifths of an inch to the right and similarly to the left (together one and a half inches), to a vertical line drawn on each side from the point of juncture of the labium majus and labium minus (“ Labionymphal Grenze”). The vertical line on each side is then completed by further similar incisions of from one to one and a fifth inches in length, thus making the entire wound resemble a U, which may be modified by cicatrices or other local conditions into a V Sanger’s Perineorrhaphy; mode of making incisions.