471 HYDATID DISEASE OF THE BONES. Human Echinococci. (Payne.) A, Group of echinococci adher- ing to germinal membrane by their pedicles (X 40); B, echinococ- cus with head invaginated (X 307); C, same compressed, showing suckers and hooklets; D, echinococcus with head protruded; E, crown of hooks—two circles (x 350). ces, with various substances in solution or suspension. The inner layer of the cyst produces, by a process of budding, the scolices or echino- coccus-heads. These may be developed to an enormous number, or they may be comparatively few. (See Fig. 1628.) The scolices are from one- sixtieth to one hundredth of an inch in length, and are armed with a row of hooks, the shape of which is absolutely characteris- tic. The head of the sco- lex is usually seen in- vaginated within the body, so that the hook- lets look like internal organs. In some cases the mother-cyst contains a number of so-called daughter-cysts; in other cases the mother - cyst produces on its exterior daughter - cysts, which invade the tissues outside of the original cyst. The more a hydatid tends to be multiple, the less is it likely to produce scolices, and the more likely is it to grow as a collection of barren cysts and vesicles. The tendency of hydatid cysts is always to increase, although slowly, and to produce damage chiefly by their mechanical influence. The most common seat of hydatids is the liver, but any other organ or tissue of the body may be invaded. When hydatids occupy the bones, they are usuall}' unsuspected and undiscovered until they have lasted a long time; because they are of slow development, do not produce deformity, and do not give rise to pain. Their discovery is frequently the result of an accident, such as a so-called spontaneous fracture; after which the diagnosis may be made or not according as the observer is acute and well informed. The location of hydatids of the bones is always in their interior, in the spongy tissue, and usually at the end of the diaphysis, in the juxta- epiphyseal region of the long bones. The bones most usually affected are the tibia, near its head; the femur, near its head; the ilium and the vertebrm. A bone containing hydatids usually presents no sign ex- ternally until its walls have been so thinned by the growth of the para- site that they give way at some point through which tlfe cyst protrudes or bursts, or at which the bone breaks. Inside the bone, the spongy tissue is destroyed in two ways: first, by mechanical pressure, causing resorption; second, by necrosis, caused by ischaemia produced by pres- sure of the cyst upon the blood-vessels. In the first case the cavity in the bone is occupied wholly by hydatid cysts; in the second case there is also a collection of puriform fluid and of small, or even large, se- questra. The puriform fluid is sometimes of a character aptly com- pared to pea-soup. The cavity in a bone caused by hydatids is usu- ally sacculated, or with anfractuosities. The progress of hydatids in a