627 TREPHINING POR PSYCHOSES. 6 of cure, 1 of transient improvement, and 2 of death. He himself re- cords 8 cases, with 3 of cure, 4 of improvement, and 1 with no good result. In another article1 he reports an additional case of melan- cholia with visual and auditory hallucinations, completely cured by operation. Often the mere elevation of depressed bone, or the loosen- ing of adhesions, will afford relief. Wade2 reports the case of a man who was operated on three times, each one of the three operations being followed by decided improve- ment, and the last by cure, lasting up to the time of the report, which was, however, very recent. Frank and Church 3 report a case of pre- sumed traumatic dementia, with personal uncleanliness. No deformity of the skull was observed, and the operation revealed no fracture. The membranes were in a state of jelly-like oedema, and four ounces of cere- bro-spinal fluid escaped in a gush. Great primary improvement was followed by a relapse. A year later a second operation was done, fol- lowed by a second improvement. The ultimate result has not yet been reported. Czerny 4 records a very interesting case of hallucination of persecution, presumably brought about by an injury, as he refers to a scar. The only localizing symptoms of any value were slight paresis and hypersesthesia of the right brachial plexus. Under the scar, in- creased sub-arachnoid fluid and possibly some atrophy of the convolu- tions were found. The dura was sunken in and the bone was thickened. The operation was followed by great improvement, but a relapse oc- curred two months subsequently, after coitus, and was attended by spastic paralysis. The former flap was again reflected, and improve- ment was noted at the time of report, which, however, was too early to warrant the presumption that it would be permanent. Czerny sug- gests that the improvement caused may be due to the change in intra- cranial pressure, similar to that in intra-ocular pressure, the diminu- tion of which results in a cure in glaucoma. Park 6 has reported some excellent recoveries following trephining for traumatic epilepsy and in- sanity. In these cases of traumatic insanity, at a longer or shorter period after the injury to the head, not uncommonly after several years, there is usually maniacal excitement, followed by chronic irritability, sus- piciousness, and then homicidal impulses, with a marked tendency to dementia. The headache is often severe, and sometimes has induced the morphia habit. Generally there will have been unconsciousness after the injury, and very commonly a depressed area of bone will be found. The operation consists simply in elevating or removing the depressed bone and loosening adhesions. The prospect for cure in such cases is very fair; and where there is an obvious or even probable relation between the insan- ity and the injury, it would be eminently proper, in view of the present safety of trephining, to operate. The insanity cannot be made worse, and surely in the very few cases in which death would follow it would be an immense boon. 1 Journal of Nerv. and Mental Disease, May, 1892. 2 Ninety-fifth Annual Report, Maryland Hosp. for the Insane. 3 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, July, 1890, p. 1. 4Verhand. Deutsch. Gesellscli. f. Chir., 1892. 5 Med. News, 1892, vol. lxi., p. 648.