356 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. blood-plates (Aschoff), which appears as an irregular network in any- given section of a clot, and is the cause of its “streaked” appearance. In the interstices fibrin threads are seen radiating from the framework, and, in addition, red and white blood-corpuscles (Weigertl, the latter of which probably to some extent actively penetrate into the thrombus after its formation (Welch). The further fate of such a thrombus, provided that it remains in situ, and is not invaded by pyogenic micro-organisms, is this: it con- tracts, and finally undergoes the same changes as do the vessel-walls; by which, on the one hand, so-called organization of the clot (by which is meant substitution by connective tissue) takes place, and on the other hand phlebitis is established. This latter consists in the infiltration of all the layers of the vessel- wall with leucocytes and so-called fibroblasts (spindle-shaped, often ramified, nucleated cells, somewhat larger than the leucocytes), derived, most probably, from the endothelia and the external coats. At the same time new vessels are formed, which advance toward the throm- bus itself, originating from the small vasa vasorum supplying the ves- sel-walls. The establishment of this form of phlebitis, through the medium of lesions to the endothelium combined with a diminished rapidity of the blood-current, with thrombus formation, may be traced to any of the following primary causes: irregularities of the inner surface of the vein, such as contractures or unevennesses due to localized dilatations, causing eddies and irregularities in the blood-current; local lesions of Fig. 1610. Blood-Plate Thrombus. (Eberth and Schimmelbusch.) the vessel-walls, chemical, mechanical, or thermal; intoxications by chemical agents; and, lastly, general impairment of health (Aschoff). Very similar to the infiltration and hyperplasia of the vein-walls as- sociated with thrombosis, is that form of inflammation of the veins con- sequent upon periphlebitis, with only this difference, that in the latter case the thickening of the adventitia is more marked, at least in the earlier stages of the process (Ebeling). The final result of all these simpler forms of phlebitis, in extreme cases, is the substitution of cicatricial tissue for the entire venous tunics (the same fate that befalls the blood clot), so that in those cases where the process is entirely completed nothing remains after the lapse of several months but a fibrous cord. In case the thrombus becomes partly detached and deprived of its nutrition to a great extent, it is apt to undergo calcareous degeneration and petrify, and in this manner the so-called vein-stones or phleboliths are formed. In case organization of the thrombus does not take place, the clot