FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. 41? Fractures of the Pelvis.1 A case of separation of the right anterior superior spine of the ilium by muscular action has been recorded by Brown;2 the patient, a boy aged IT, recovered completely in eight weeks. In another instance, reported by Nickerson,3 the boy walked without crutches in three weeks. In Joy's case,4 a good recovery ensued in two weeks. In two other cases, reported by Hyde 5 and by Sealy,6 the injury was in the nature of a sprain-fracture, the anterior inferior spine being torn off by the pull of the head of the rectus muscle attached to it. A case of fracture of the pelvis on either side of the symphysis pubis, with rupture of the urethra and extravasation of urine, followed by repeated attacks of retention, and by the formation of perineal fistulas, but ending in recovery, has been recorded by Dunn.7 In another in- stance, reported by J. B. Deaver,8 a fracture at one side of the pubic arch, in a boy 3 years old, gave rise to a urethro-rectal fistula which persisted twenty-one years, and was then closed by a plastic operation. Battle,9 in the case of a girl aged two and a half years, with compound fracture of the left side of the pelvis through the transverse and as- cending rami of the os pubis, close to the symphysis, and with separa- tion of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, made an incision in the groin, and wired together the fragments, which were separated one and a half inches. Perfect recovery ensued. In a case reported by Browne 10 the epigastric artery, and in one by Mason 11 the obturator artery, was torn across; in both the bladder and urethra were ruptured; death took place in the former in four hours, in the latter not until the seventeenth day. Allis 12 argues that in considering the injuries of the pelvis, it should be regarded as a bony ring, and not as composed of its several parts. He thinks that when the anterior portion suffers, the urethra is torn across, not cut by fragments; and that the vessels are similarly dragged upon when there is expansion of the posterior part of the ring by vio- lence from without. Holmes 13 met with a case in which a man fell fifteen feet, striking on the greater trochanter, and died in a few hours; the head of the femur was found to have been driven through the fractured acetabulum into the pelvis. I have myself recently had in the Pennsylvania Hospital a man aged 54, who fell a considerable distance, and fractured the lip of the acetabulum, allowing the head of the femur to slip up upon the dorsum ilii. After reduction shortening was noticed, easily overcome, with crepitus, and as easily recurring; extension was carefully and 1 The reader is referred to an interesting article by Kloos, “Zur Casuistik der Beckenfrac- turen” (in Beitrage zur klinisclien Chirnrgie, 1888, Band iii., Heft 3). The author gives 4 cases, 3 fatal, the autopsies showing injuries either of the bladder or of the urethra. 2 British Med. Journal, Aug. 16, 1884. 3 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, March 6, 1890. 4 Canada Med. Journal, Aug., 1870. 5 British Med. Journal, Nov. 2, 1872. 6 Ibid., Nov. 16, 1872. 1 Guy’s Hosp. Reports, vol. xxix., 1887. 8 Trans, of Am. Surgical Association, vol. x., 1892. 9 Trans, of the Clinical Society of London, vol. xxvii., 1894. 10 Lancet, May 15, 1886. 11 Ibid., Jan. 22, 1887. 12 Trans, of Am. Surg. Association, vol. viii., 1890. 13 British Med. Journal, Dec. 24, 1887. VOL. VII.—27