(479) INJURIES OF JOINTS. BY EDMUND ANDREWS, M.D., LL.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE CHICAGO MEDICAL COLLEGE; SURGEON-IN-CHIEF OF MERCY HOSPITAL, CHICAGO. Dislocations. The treatment of dislocations has in recent years been modified by the introduction of bolder operative measures. The weight of author- ity now is on the side of arthrotomy, or free section of the soft tissues, in all cases where from any cause the reduction cannot otherwise be ac- complished. Under antiseptic management the knee and other large joint cavities are now cut down upon, subperiosteal detachment of mus- cles and ligaments effected, and various plastic and reparative operations done without fear of injury to joint function. Arthrotomy, as a con- servative substitute for excision in old dislocations, is rapidly gaining ground. In the case of congenital dislocations of the hip the special operations of Lorenz and Hoffa seem destined to supplant all other forms of treatment, effecting, as the}" do, nearly complete cure. It is only within half a decade that much attention has been directed to the subject of arthrotomy, although theoretically the possibility of curing old dislocations by such means has been recognized since the ad- vent of antiseptic surgery. The chief credit for the perfection of arthrot- omy as opposed to arthrectomy must be given to the German surgeons, whose work has been the basis of the modern practice of English and American operators. Special Dislocations. Vertebrje.—Luxation of the cervical vertebrae can undoubtedly occur without fracture. In the dorsal and lumbar spine this is proba- bly impossible. Walton reports five cases with only one death, and one followed by permanent paralysis. In the remainder there was slight loss of power of rotation. A case is reported by Feranchomme in which the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae were displaced laterally, and the atlas forward, with paraplegia. Autopsy showed also hemorrhage in the spinal canal. La Place, in an old dislocation of the fourth cervical vertebra, recently performed a successful arthrotomy, cutting the soft parts down to the laminae and forcing the displaced bone into position. This, the first case of its kind, was followed by recovery. No disability remained after three months.