617 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF EPILEPSY. centres in the brain, the face centre lying at the lowest part, the arm centre above that, and the leg centre above that. If the fit begins in the face centre, it is apt also to involve the speech centre just in front of it, and so produce aphasia. (4) Another form, which may be dis- tinguished surgically, but may cover any one of the three forms already described, is the so-called traumatic epilepsy in which the disease seems to be the direct result of an injury. I. General or Idiopathic Epilepsy.—Since it has become popu- larly known that surgery can do something for epilepsy, an immense number of patients suffering from this form of the disease have applied for relief. But fortunately the good sense of the vast majority of sur- geons has been proof against the importunities of these patients, and few operations have been done in such cases. No possible benefit can be expected in this form of the disease. There is no guide as to where the surgeon should trephine, or what he should do, should he go so far as to open the skull. Unfortunately this class of patients form the vast majority of all epileptics, and they are at present beyond surgical aid. II. Focal Epilepsy.—In these cases the first thing necessary for the surgeon is to make sure of the statements of either the patient, or more often of his friends, that the epilepsy is really of this type. It has occurred to me in many cases to have a history of an apparently distinct focal epilepsy given; but when I have placed the patient in hospital under the observation of a trained nurse, whose only business was to watch the patient, observe, and immediately write down a descrip- tion of the fit, I have found that the statements were entirely erroneous. Hence I regard it as a matter of imperative duty that no history, how- ever apparently exact and consistent, should be accepted without such observation. And this observation should be not only of one or two attacks, but of a sufficient number, say half a dozen or more, to verify or disprove their asserted local and uniform beginning. Moreover, as Putnam has pointed out, the value of spasm starting in highly special- ized parts, such as the fingers, whose equilibrium is easily disturbed, is much less than that of spasm starting in the coarser, better balanced muscles of larger joints, such as the shoulder. The operative treatment of focal epilepsy has been the exposure of the centre in which the fit begins, its recognition by means of the faradic battery, and its excision. It must be confessed that the results from published cases have not been such as to give very great encouragement to continuance of this mode of practice; but, on the other hand, sufficient time has not yet elapsed to enable us to speak with certitude on the subject. Any opera- tion—an amputation, or the excision of a tumor—will often arrest epi- lepsy, focal or otherwise, for a considerable time; and we must remem- ber, therefore, that the occasional improvement sometimes induced may be the general result of the operation, and not of excision of the brain centre. Moreover, it has been argued, with some show of reason, that the excision of such a centre must necessarily be repaired by means of a scar; and it has been amply proved in many cases of traumatic epilepsy that such a scar may itself be apparently the source of irrita- tion which brings on epilepsy.