INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 826 the soft parts less than by any other plan. The hemorrhage attending the operation is considerable, but is easily controlled. It has been advised, in dealing with large cavities, to attack the ribs from two points: in the uspal position, and posteriorly at the inner border of the scapula; thus three or four ribs may be divided in front, and from three to seven behind. The operation is severe in itself, and leaves the patient with an opening through the chest. My own preference, if the cavity is not too extensive, is for the longitudinal incision of Gould, which under ordinary circumstances gives a very perfect exposure. If, on the other hand, the cavity is found to extend over a large space laterally, the exposure made by the incisions of Estlander over the in- tercostal spaces will prove most satisfactory. Having removed a suf- ficient length of a sufficient number of ribs, if necessary up to the first —which is never touched on account of its close proximity to the sub- clavian vessels—as much of the thickened pleura and periosteum is cut away with scissors as will leave a soft, pliant covering to fall in and rest upon the visceral pleura, thus obliterating the cavity. To accom- plish this, the cut ends of the ribs must correspond as nearly as possible with the anterior and posterior margins of the space which it is intended to close. It is important to remove enough periosteum, since the great rapidity with which bone is reproduced, if its ensheathing membrane is left, soon puts a stop to the process of contraction, and in some cases a mass of callus has been developed, forming a hard wall as incapable of yielding as the imbricated ribs which it has replaced. The operator has now an opportunity to thoroughly explore the cavity, and it may seem expedient to curette its inner surface with a Volkmann’s spoon, to remove septic debris; this, however, really does but little good, and often does harm, as the sharp spoon may scrape over the surface of the pericardium, or in close proximity to branches of the pneumo- gastric or sympathetic nerves. If the cavity should be very large, it may be carefully mopped out with some antiseptic, or a mild antiseptic fluid may be injected with care, this often greatly adding to the com- fort of the patient. In my own experience I have never had an un- pleasant result from washing out an old empyema; but it must be re- membered that a considerable number of cases are on record in which an injection, which may have been frequently repeated without serious consequences, has led to sudden death or to the most alarming symp- toms, probably from the sudden increase of pressure within the cavity, caused by a partial closing of the outlet or by the use of too large a tube. The nature of the fluid employed can have had nothing what- ever to do with these results, as equally bad results have followed the use of pure water. A large drainage-tube is to be placed in the most dependent portion of the incision, and if necessary a special opening may be made for the tube, when the wound may be closed with sutures. Every provision should be made to insure reaction, as the operation is often accompanied by much shock. The dressing of gauze and cotton is to be retained by a broad bandage carried around the chest. Paracentesis Pericardii. Paracentesis pericardii is essentially a modern operation, although it was advocated nearly 180 years ago by Senac. The precision and ac-