424 INJURIES OF BONES. Of fracture near the lower end of the radius, a number of cases have been reported.1 In one, seen by Hinshelwood,2 both wrists were broken by a fall down-stairs; in the right there was the ordinary deformity, hut in the left it was reversed, a hollow existing on the dorsum, and a corresponding prominence in front. A point which seems to have hitherto been unnoticed is the effect of obliquity of the line of fracture upon the deformity. This I have sev- eral times seen; an illustration of it has been given by Lockwood.3 Curtis4 has reported the case of a man aged 41, who sustained a Colies’s fracture, which did well, and he returned to work; two days afterward he made a sudden grasp with the injured hand, and the bone gave way again, apparently in exactly the former line. A fatal case of tetanus after an injury of this kind, in a hoy aged 15, has been recorded by Waitz;5 also another case, in which the symp- toms subsided upon resection of the bulky callus, and freeing of the radial nerve, in a hoy of the same age, by Brunner.6 These fractures are generally said to he infrequent in early life; but it has occurred to me to have at the Pennsylvania Hospital, within a period of forty-eight hours, four cases in patients between 5 and 12 years of age. All these were from simple ordinary falls on the hand; there was no ice on the ground, nor any other circumstance to account for the coincidence. 1 lately had a very striking instance of separation of the lower epi- physis of the radius, in a boy 10 years old, who had fallen on the ground; under ether the fragment went into place with a click plainlj* heard by the bystanders. In a case recorded by Wickes,7 a boy 12 years old fell a distance of twenty-five feet, and had a compound separation of the lower epiphysis of the radius, the shaft protruding; the ulna was broken about li inches higher up. On the third day gangrene ensued, necessitating amputation above the elbow ; the hoy recovered. Here, as elsewhere, failure in the growth of the bone has sometimes been observed as the result of these epiphyseal disjunctions. The sub- ject has been recently discussed by Stehr,8 with records of three new cases, and reference to those previously reported by Hutchinson, Goy- rand, Poncet, and others. As to the treatment of fractures of the lower end of the radius, there has been nothing wholly new proposed. I have myself found entire satisfaction in the use of a small splint carefully fitted so as to fill up the normal hollow of the anterior or palmar aspect of the ra- dius, in order to maintain reduction after this has once been thoroughly effected, this splint being kept in exact place by a broad hand of rub- ber plaster firmly applied. 'St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1887; Trans, of Pathological Society of London, vol. xxxviii. 2 British Med. Journal, Nov. 3, 1888. 3 Trans, of Pathological Society of London, 1884. 4 New York Medical Journal, Feb. 21, 1891. 5 Report of Esmarch’s Clinic, Archiv fur klin. Chirurgie, 1877. 6 London Medical Recorder, July 15, 1886. 1 Med. Times and Gazette, Dec. 22, 1883. sBeitrage zur klin. Chirurgie, v., 1889.