G76 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. attacks of catarrhal conjunctivitis with profuse muco-purulent dis- charge may he cut short by the thorough application of nitrate of silver, gr. iv.-x. to f 3 i., hut the cases for such treatment should always he carefully chosen. Solutions of bichloride of mercury do not seem to be indicated in the treatment of acute conjunctivitis, as a solution of only 1 in 5000 has caused serious irritation in these cases. Ophthalmia Neonatorum.—This is probably caused oftener by the gonococcus than by any other germ, but there are undoubted cases in which its presence cannot be demonstrated. Crede's method of instil- ling one or two drops of a two-per-cent, solution of nitrate of silver into the eyes of infants immediately after birth, is still the recognized preventive treatment, and this precaution has caused a vast reduction in the number and severity of cases. Certain states have adopted laws requiring all midwives to report to a physician every case of eye in- flammation occurring in new-born children under their care, and the penalty for failing to make such report is fine, or imprisonment, or both. Laws of this kind, if properly enforced, would go far toward stamping out the greatest cause of blindness, and should be uni- versally adopted. Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia.—This inflammation is caused by the gonococcus getting into the conjunctiva, and its presence may always be proved by the microscope even when the source of infection is un- known. The symptoms are too well known to be repeated here, and the diagnosis is easy. If seen in the first stage, when the entire con- junctival area is reddened and the eye is weeping, the attack may be aborted, or the severity lessened, by prompt and energetic treatment. This consists in perfect cleanliness and the use of nitrate of silver, which is the most important remedy for this disease. Usualty it is not necessary to use solutions stronger than two per cent., but when the discharge is very profuse and the cornea is threatened, the strength may be increased to twenty or thirty grains to the ounce, or even more. Unless accustomed to treating these cases it will be more prudent to employ the weaker solutions. The strictest attention must be paid to the cornea, and a critical examination should be made several times a day when possible. Softening, which is indicated by haziness, shows that the microbe has made its way through the epithelium. Atropine to allay the irritation is at once -indicated, and the efforts to secure cleanliness must be redoubled. It has been advised (Hinde) to apply strong solutions (1 in 500) of bichloride of mercury to the infected spot, but the use of this remedy requires caution. French surgeons have advocated the use of the actual cautery, and report cases as saved by this treatment. Ice-cold cloths should be applied continuously to the lids until all active symptoms have subsided, for by the use of cold multiplication of the gonococci is restricted. The sound eye must always be sealed and every care taken to prevent it from becoming in- fected. Bandages and dressings to the inflamed eye are unnecessary unless perforation of the cornea is threatened, or has occurred. Finally, when possible, a nurse should be in constant attendance upon these cases, and too much care cannot be exercised by the surgeon and attendants that they themselves do not become infected. The pus will