(901) DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. BY CHARLES B. KELSEY, A.M., M.D., PROFESSOR OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM IN THE NEW YORK POST-GRADUATE MEDICAL SCHOOL AND HOSPITAL, LATE PROFESSOR OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM IN THE UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT, ETC. The advances in our knowledge and the changes in our treatment of diseases of the rectum in the last decade have been most marked in the graver affections and the surgical operations for their relief. New methods in the treatment of the more common diseases such as hemor- rhoids and fistula are brought to notice from time to time, and make for themselves a permanent place in practice, or are forgotten, accord- ing to their merits. Such it is not our object to consider. COLOTOMY. Perhaps the most radical step forward in the surgery of the rectum since the earlier volumes of this work appeared, has been the acceptance by most of the profession of the teachings of Mr. Bryant regarding colot- omy in bad cases of non-malignant ulceration, stricture, and extensive destruction of the parts by fistulse. He was the first, I think, to appre- ciate the limits of the ordinarily employed methods of treatment in these grave cases, and to boldly advocate and still more boldly practise this operation, after the failure of dilatation, incision, and all the other time- honored and inefficient means usually resorted to. He was also the first to appreciate that a patient was much more comfortable and much better off with a well-formed anus in the loin, through which he might have one painless evacuation daily, than with a hopelessly diseased anus in the perineum which was a constant source of suffering and which could not be cured. Well do I remember, after weeks of treatment and two useless operations for old fistulm and simple ulcer- ation in an important patient, when I had made up my own mind that nothing but colotomy could do him any good and that without colot- omy he would die, the comfort with which I read again Bryant’s orig- inal teachings on this point. They seemed very bold to me then, but I have adopted the treatment recommended many times since with the happiest results. The truth is that one must know from experience how very comfort- able a patient with an artificial anus may be, before he can justly ap-