TETANUS. 383 the number of bacilli which have entered, the location of the point of infection, the histological characteristics of the surrounding tissues, the degree of virulence of the micro-organisms, and the susceptibility of the tissues to the action of the ptomaines (Seim). According to Kitasato, to whom we owe so much of our knowledge of this bacillus, infection in man usually occurs by spores which are in- troduced on some foreign body. The reason that wounds of the ex- tremities are comparatively often followed by tetanus, is to be sought in the fact that the agents producing these injuries have upon them the spores from contact with the soil, and that the parts themselves are often begrimed with dirt. Wounds of considerable extent are not so often followed by the disease, because, as has been suggested, they are more apt to be efficiently cleansed and dressed than are small wounds. In punctured wounds, the conditions for the growth of the bacilli are more favorable owing to the exclusion of air and light. There has not been found much to add to the result of former inves- tigations as to the morbid anatomy of tetanus. Obliteration of the central canal of the spinal cord, and disintegrative changes in the pos- terior horns, have been found by Tyson. Monastyrski has found semi- lunar extravasations of blood in the interstitial connective tissue of the cord and peripheral nerves, and granular infiltration of the nerve cells. The bacilli, or rather their poisonous products, probably produce changes in the nervous matters, the exact nature of which future investigations must determine. Recently, tetanus toxine has been found in the kid- neys and urine of human beings and of animals suffering from tetanus, showing that nature makes an effort to eliminate the poison by the kidneys. Prophylaxis and Treatment.—Of course strict antiseptic and aseptic procedures are necessary for the prevention and cure of tetanus. All wounds, even the most insignificant, are to be thoroughly disinfected and kept so, especially if, from the nature of the injury and circum stances surrounding it, infection with the germ seems probable. Tiz zoni and Cattani, basing their advice upon experiments on lower ani mals, advise the disinfection of a suspicious wound with a ^ to 1 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver, and for the further treatment of the case, if tetanus develop, a mixture of 1-1000 solution of bichloride of mercury, 5-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid and ^-per-cent, solution of hydrochloric acid. Punctured wounds are to be enlarged so that the germicides may be brought into contact with the deeper tissues. Pack- ing the wound with iodoform has been advised by Sormanni. The usual antispasmodics, etc., are to be given to lessen the intensity of the convulsions, and a supporting treatment is to be adopted. Ampu- tation for already existing tetanus is to be regarded as an irrational procedure. Baccelli and others have reported cures by the injection of solutions of carbolic acid. Baccelli used 0.01 gramme every hour. De Renzi has cured three out of four cases by absolute rest; the patient is placed in a dark, quiet room, cotton is put into the external auditory meatus, liquid food is poured directly into the mouth of the patient, and ergot and belladonna are administered. By the injection of small amounts of blood serum derived from ani- mals affected with tetanus, Behring and Kitasato have produced im- munity to the disease in animals; they have also cured animals by the