851 PERITONITIS. of the same culture introduced at the same point, under identical con- ditions, produce a localized plastic peritonitis followed by recovery. Ten minims introduced into the abdomen of another rabbit, under proper control, are followed by death in thirty hours from septic peri- tonitis. Again, different varieties of bacteria exhibit widely varying degrees of virulence. The organisms found in ordinary suppurative processes are by far less virulent than the Diplococcus pneumoniae or the Bacillus communis coli. Pathology of Peritonitis.—The conditions exhibit decided differ- ences in each variety. If an examination be made within a few hours from the onset of a septic peritonitis, the division of the parietal peri- toneum will be followed by an outpouring of the exudation. A careful examination of this fluid, usually brownish, opaque, and foul-smell- ing, will demonstrate the presence of both red and white blood-corpus- cles, granular detritus, flocculent lymph, and innumerable bacteria. No matting together by plastic lymph of adjacent peritoneal surfaces will be found. The peritoneum, both parietal and visceral, in every portion of the abdominal cavity, is deeply injected, and may show numerous points where hemorrhages have occurred between the serous membrane and underlying tissues. The peritoneum soon loses its glistening appearance. The vessels (lymphatics) of the mesentery are engorged. Following very closely, the lymphatic glands are swollen, the liver, spleen, and kidneys are seriously congested. If the patient can withstand the continued auto-administration of ptomaines for a few hours longer, there may appear in the spleen or liver patches of necrosis. In the last stages the exudation may be more nearly purulent. The plastic variety of peritonitis is always a localized condition, at least in the beginning. The exudate is fibrinous or fibro-plastic, never serous. The best examples of plastic peritonitis are found associated with gonorrhoeal infection of the uterine appendages, or in a portion of the cases of appendicitis. The process of matting of adjacent struc- tures may remain circumscribed or spread by continuity. In cases of chronic peritonitis, it may be impossible to isolate a single organ with- out greatly endangering the integrity of adjacent structures. Bands oc- cluding the intestines may occur, and may induce intestinal obstruction. Pure suppurative peritonitis as a primary condition does not occur. It is always secondary to either one or the other variety, usually the plastic. When in the course of a plastic peritonitis the intensity of the inflammation is such that the exudate becomes necrotic, abscesses de- velop about these centres of necrosis, and increase in size from an exten- sion of the primary process. Abscess may develop, on the other hand, from perforations in viscera—the intestine, appendix, gall-bladder, or Fallopian tube. Suppurative peritonitis is consequently found as a sequence of inflammatory changes in the uterine appendages, vermi- form appendix, or gall bladder, and in peritonitis following delivery. That the exudation associated with a purely septic peritonitis is ever distinctly purulent, in the common acceptance of that term, is open to very grave doubt. If a fluid, which may be properly termed pus, is ever found in septic peritonitis, it is only at a very late stage of the disease. The two conditions, plastic and septic peritonitis, occur to- gether under certain conditions. A localized plastic peritonitis has as-