3 CHANGES IN THE BLOOD-VESSELS. turbance of the mechanism of nutrition, and affects the structures con- cerned in this function.” From the point of view of this article, as will be seen, this is not quite the idea that it is desired to convey, and instead of saying that inflammation is “the response of living tissue to injury,” we are in- clined to say that it is the response of living tissue to irritation, as a result of the disturbances occurring in connection with this irritation, of whatever kind it may be. Various changes give rise to the five cardinal symptoms of inflammation, pain, heat, redness, swelling, and impaired function (dolor, color, rubor, tumor, functio Icesa). Changes in the Blood-Vessels. The changes to be seen in the blood-vessels are the first that attract attention, and our knowledge of these changes is very largely due to the work of Cohnheim in 1867. Recklinghausen was the first to show that many connective-tissue cells possess a power of motion and mi- grate into the inflamed part, forming a portion of the great number of cells found there, and Cohnheim identified the cells of inflamed tissue with the white blood corpuscles or leucocytes. The beginning of an inflammatory process is marked by a greatly increased rapidity of the flow of blood in the part, producing hypercemia, and this is followed by a slowing of the current. A great accumulation of white corpuscles takes place on the interior of the vessel wall, and this is followed by an emigration of these leucocytes from the interior of the veins, pro- ducing diapedesis.1 The leucocytes escape through the walls by send- ing out little prolongations (pseuclopodia) that extend through the wall of the vessel, and the remainder of the corpuscle follows, but the question of the existence of actual spaces, or holes, in the wall of the vessel, through which the cells may pass, is as yet a disputed one. No such process of migration has been seen occurring through the walls of arteries, nor, excepting to a limited extent, through the walls of the capillaries. The changes thus seen in the circulation in inflammation explain two of the main symptoms, the lieat and the redness. The swelling is to be accounted for by the alteration of the tissues of the part, which are found distended with an abundant exudation, escaping through the walls of the dilated blood-vessels, consisting not only of leucocytes, but also of a certain amount of fluid closely resembling the liquor sanguinis. It was at first supposed by Cohnheim that all the cells found in the part came from the white blood corpuscles, but later investigations have shown that the fixed connective-tissue corpuscles and other cells in the tissues of the body are capable of division, and by the latest views the multinuclear leucocytes appear to be taken up and destroyed by the proliferating connective-tissue cells, the leucocytes ap- parently serving simply as nutrition for these. The function of leuco- cytes has been widely argued. Cohnheim considered them to be active agents during repair, and Metchnikoff has advanced the important theory of phagocytosis, to which much space is given in this article. The pain felt in inflammation is due to pressure or tension produced by the swelling upon the terminal branches of the nerves, and it may also 1 See Strieker's article on Inflammation, in Vol. I