SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 336 writers who have had occasion to observe the disease in India. Very often we are completely at a loss to account for the origin of the affec- tion. Two observers, Carter and Crookshank, have arrived at the conclusion that the clinical as well as pathological conditions existing in mycetoma are- analogous to those observed in actinomycosis, and are of the opinion that the disease should be considered as actinomy- cosis occurring in the human race. Two varieties of the disease have been observed, known respectively as the pale or yellow, and the black; the latter variety occurs most frequently. Treatment.—When the disease is still confined to the superficial lay- ers, and has not been of long duration, the affected area should be thoroughly curetted and an appropriate dressing applied. Parasitic Diseases. Favits. — Synonyms: Honeycomb Ringworm; Porrigo lupinosa; Porrigo favosa ; Tinea lupinosa; Crusted Ringworm. German, Erb- grind. French, Teigne faveuse.—This disease is due to the presence of a fungus known as the achorion Schoenleinii. Remak, in 1836, first called attention to the fungoid character of the crusts; three years later Sclioenlein established their fungoid nature beyond a doubt. In Eng- land the disease is decidedly rare, but it is often met with in Scotland; it is of frequent occurrence in France, and is very common in Poland and Italy. In the United States favus is rare, but is not infrequently seen among the lower classes of recently arrived immigrants, and a case occurring in the head of a child eight years of age, of American par- ents, and supposed to have been contracted in a barber-sliop, has re- cently come under my notice. Although usually located on the scalp, favus may attack any part of the surface, and even the mucous mem- branes. Epidermic favus is regarded as rare, although quite exten- sive cases of that character have been recorded by Kaposi, Roddick, E. J. Stout, myself, and others.1 Authors have described several varieties of favus fungus. Three forms have been spoken of by Unna, to which he has given the name of favus griseus, favus sulphureus tardus, and favus sulphureus celerior. Quincke has also differentiated three varieties of the fungus, which he has named respectively «, /?, and y fungus. The majority of authors, however, are of the opinion that there exists but one achorion fungus. It appears that favus, in common with other vegetable parasitic affec- tions, shows a disposition to attack certain individuals in preference to others; thus it would seem that certain soils are peculiarly favorable to its propagation. Treatment.—The employment of poultices or hot applications is to be deprecated in the treatment of this affection, as it is a well-known fact that moist heat is favorable to the growth of the fungus. The treatment formerly in vogue, known as the “calotte,” or pitch cap, has been abandoned, being very severe and even dangerous to life. Bulkley advocates the use of epilating sticks, which consist of: R Cerse flavse, 3 iij; Laccse in tabulis, 3 iv; Resime, 3 vi; Picis burgundicse, 3 xi; Gummi dammar, § iss. These sticks are from two to three inches 'Journal of Cutaneous and Genito-Urinary Diseases, September, 1894.