INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. 671 and then withdrawn by forceps. Bodies that have lodged in the iris are very difficult to remove without excising a portion of that membrane. When bleeding follows the iridectomy, removal may be complicated by the introduction of the magnet, which at times coagulates the blood. Foreign bodies that have penetrated the lens are very difficult to handle. When they have but partially penetrated, and project also into the anterior chamber, no effort should be spared for their removal, and the greatest care should be exercised in order that the lens should be disturbed as little as possible, for though these injuries are generally followed by the formation of cataract, still, in a small number of re- corded cases, the resulting opacities have either cleared or have not increased. Bodies that have passed -wholly into the lens substance usu- ally cause rapid loss of vision, but in rare instances have remained in the lens for a considerable time without producing general opacity. It is at times difficult to decide how such cases shall be treated. The removal of a traumatic cataract, when vision in the other eye is good, has little to recommend it beyond the cosmetic effect. Usually foreign bodies are found at the bottom of the capsule (unless recently intro- duced), and move with every motion of the eye. Evacuation of the lens-substance does not insure removal of the foreign body, and should i.t by any accident escape into the vitreous, the condition would be far worse than before. Therefore, unless it is solidly imbedded in the lens substance and can be extracted with it, or can be taken out in the capsule, it is far better to allow it to remain undisturbed. Foreign Bodies in the Vitreous.—The electro-magnet has worked wonders among these cases, and many eyes are now saved for good and useful vision that were formerly either removed at once or left only to become blind. When possible, the foreign body should be located by the aid of the ophthalmoscope, but when this is impossible then the general direction of its course, its probable size, and its velocity must be taken into consideration. When the case is seen soon after the ac- cident, the point of the magnet may be introduced through the opening made by the foreign body; but if important tissues are likely to be injured by this proceeding, another opening may be made close to its position as well as this can be determined, and where there is least like- lihood of doing permanent injury. When the exact position of the foreign body is unknown, the opening may be made through the con- junctiva and sclera, about the equator, and near the lower edge of the external rectus muscle. For this purpose a Graefe knife may be used, and care must be taken that the opening in the conjunctiva is not di- rectly over that in the sclera. The opening should be large enough for the easy withdrawal of the foreign body when its size can be approxi- mately determined. The point of the magnet is gently introduced and held for a short time just within the globe, so that if the foreign body is near it may be attracted without further disturbance of the vitreous; but should this fail, the point is carefully moved in different directions until the foreign body is found, or until it is demonstrated that the magnet is useless. The failure to remove these bodies with the magnet is generally caused by their having become encapsulated, or by their having