OB INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. lishment of a free channel through the bone down to the antrum. But if there is the least doubt about the extent of operative interference that may he required, it is better to shave off the hair from the imme- diate neighborhood of the mastoid process and subject the skin surface thus exposed to a thorough scrubbing and disinfection. In the case of women with long hair it is not an easy matter to protect the latter from the blood and other materials that escape from the wound or from the ear. An elastic rubber cap, such as is worn by women bathers at the seaside resorts in France, furnishes the desired protection, but I have thus far failed to find these or similar caps at any of the rubber shops in this city. A folded towel, wrung out of a 1-2000 bichloride solution and wrapped firmly round the patient’s head, makes a fairly good substitute. The rigid antiseptic precautions which are considered so very necessary in some other operations, are of less value in this. In nine cases out of ten we are engaged in the work of establishing a new and larger channel for the drainage of a focus of disease which is presumably sufficiently septic to undo all the beneficial effects of any attempt that we may make to render instruments, hands, cloths, etc., really aseptic. What is of much greater importance is to ter- minate the operation by the most careful efforts to cleanse and render aseptic not only the centre of the disease in the mastoid antrum or neighborhood, but also all the cut surfaces and adjacent skin. The External Incision.— This should be made in a curving direc- tion, very nearly parallel with the line of attachment of the auricle. It should begin at a point above and a little in front of the orifice of the external auditory canal, and it should end at the tip of the mastoid process. A margin of skin, at least half an inch in breadth, should everywhere intervene between the edge of this cut and the line of attachment of the auricle. The effort should be made, in this first in- cision, to carry the point of the knife through the periosteum, as well as through the skin, throughout the entire length of the cut. Control of the Bleeding.—Pressure with the finger of an assistant, in the immediate vicinity of the wound, will usually control the bleed- ing sufficiently to enable the operator to proceed with the second step of the operation, viz., the separation of the periosteum from the under- lying bone, over the outer and anterior surface of the mastoid, and just above the orifice of the osseous external auditory canal. After this has been accomplished, his first care should be to control, in some more permanent fashion, the bleeding—not so much on account of the possi- ble weakening effects of the loss of blood, but particularly because he will require, from this point onward, as clear a view as he can obtain of the field of operation. If there are any spurting vessels, their mouths should be closed by means of artery forceps; and if troublesome oozing of blood still continues after the forceps have been applied, small hot sponges, squeezed as dry as possible after being removed from the hot sublimate solution (1-2000 or 1-3000), may be crowded into the wound and left there for three or four minutes. Still another effective method of controlling this general oozing of blood from numer- ous small vessels is to allow very hot water—as hot as the hand can bear for a few instants—to trickle from a sponge into the open wound, or to be injected into it by a suitable syringe. Ligation of the bleed- ing vessels is generally not necessary, and should be avoided in the