( 395 ) DISEASES AND INJURIES OF RURS.E. BY CHARLES B. NANCREDE, A.M., M.D., PROFESSOR OF SURGERY AND OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; PRO- FESSOR EMERITUS OF GENERAL AND ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY IN THE PHILADELPHIA POLYCLINIC AND SCHOOL FOR GRADUATES IN MEDICINE. General Remarks on the Treatment of Bursitis. While those points will be specifically mentioned in regard to which experience, resulting from the advance in scientific wound treatment, has modified the advice given ten years ago, a few general statements, more or less applicable to all cases, must necessarily preface further remarks. The bursae being, as previously mentioned,1 merely en- larged spaces of the connective tissue which is condensed to form their walls, when these sacs become inflamed the process is very prone to extend to the adjacent connective tissue, and thence to all the cellular planes of the part. Even in youth many bursae open into contiguous joints, while as age advances those which at first did not communicate with an articulation often do so. Before the full confidence which we now feel in aseptic methods was warranted, the following advice, under the heading “Acute Bursitis of the Prepatellar Bursa”2 was emi- nently proper: “I would caution against the use of the knife, unless pus is certainly present, as death has thus more than once resulted.” Again, the statement that nothing beyond aspiration or subcutaneous discission should be employed in the treatment of deep-seated bursse, with the absolute prohibition of any cutting operation for the relief of synovial herniae, requires modification to the effect that these restric- tions are now only binding if the strictest asepsis cannot be attained, but that, this being secured, incision and drainage, or complete or partial extirpation, are justifiable. Treatment of Acute Bursitis.—With the advance in aseptic and antiseptic methods, many of the recommendations formerly given under this caption require additions or modifications. Thus, after the appli- cation of leeches, a light antiseptic dressing should be applied to the bites before either dry cold is employed,3 or evaporating lotions are resorted to, while the latter applications should contain some un- irritating but efficient germicide, or germ-inhibitor. Poultices are 1 See Vol. III., page 135. 2 Ibid., page 161. 3 Ibid., page 138.