(439) DISEASES OF THE BOM BY CHARLES W. DULLES, M.D. LECTURER ON THE HISTORY OF MEDICINE IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE RUSH HOSPITAL, SURGEON FOR OUT-PATIENTS TO THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Preliminary Remarks. A comprehensive study of the surgery of the skeleton would include a consideration of all the deviations from the normal state to which its various parts are liable, including (A) deformities, by defect, by excess, or by distortion (congenital, or acquired as the result of disease, ac- cident, or surgical procedure); (B) defects of nutrition and develop- ment; (C) strains; (D) contusions; (E) wounds and fractures; and (F) the different diseases which may affect any part of a complete bone—the periosteum, the solid or cancellated tissue, or the medulla. Certain of these are treated of in other articles of this volume, and I shall, therefore, limit the present study to a consideration of what may be considered specifically as diseases of the bones. Before taking up the study of these divisions of the subject systemat- ically, it may not be amiss to rehearse briefly a few facts in regard to the structure and function of the bones. The formation of bone in vertebrates begins at a very early stage in embryonic life, among the earliest recognizable structures being the rudiments of the vertebrae and the base of the skull, which are distin- guishable only by their situation and shape from the other structures to be formed out of the mesoblastic layer. They soon acquire a cer- tain degree of hardness and a cartilaginous character, afterward under- going ossification by the deposit of various salts, and the transforma- tion of their cartilage-cells into bone-cells. Some of the flat bones are often cited as exceptions to the rule of development from cartilage, and are called (quoad hoc) intramembranous, as contrasted with intracarti- laginous bones. But this is a question of terms; for all bones are de- veloped from the same layer of the germinal vesicle, and they may, by nature or by disease, demonstrate their similarity of capabilities with other structures formed from the same layer, as is seen in the familiar instance of the bony structure of the tendons of fowls, and in the de- velopment of osteophytes. The base of the skull is, like most of the bones, developed from cartilage; the sides and roof are mostly devel- oped within a membrane. In both varieties, the formation of com-