579 TECHNIQUE OF CEREBRAL OPERATIONS. posed the bone covered by the periosteum. Three sides of bone were then chiselled through, the periosteum being divided. The fourth side was chiselled carefully under the periosteum, and the bone was then turned back on the latter as a hinge. To Wagner, however,1 is due the credit of a greatly improved method of temporary osteoplastic resection suggested by Wolff's experiments. .At the desired point an omega- shaped (fl) incision is made through the soft parts, directly down to the bone, to which the scalp is carefully left attached. The external table of the skull is then chiselled through, either by ordinary chisels, or, better, by the chisels employed by wood or ivory carvers, which can be had at any good hardware store, or by the special chisels devised by Hartley or Pyle. These, however, I find too long. They should not be over five and a half inches in length, which makes them much more manageable. The diploe having been reached, care should be exercised, in going through the vitreous table, not to wound the dura mater. To this end an osteotome and not a chisel should be used to cut through the inner table. The blows of the mallet, as has been said by Mr. Chiene, should not be rude, forcible blows like those of a carpenter, but rather like those of the sculptor. One or more elevators then being inserted under the edges of the bony flap, the portion of the bone be- tween the two ends of the omega is fractured, and the united flap of bone and scalp is turned downward, the scalp serving as a hinge. Macewen drills or saws the bone along the line of fracture, under the soft parts. This method of operation, however, will be difficult of execution in case the skull is very thick. Fowler's case2 showed this to be a serious difficulty. Hence I would advise, in all adults, that first of all a small trephine-button (say half an inch) should be re- moved at the summit of the incision, in order to determine what the thickness of the skull is, and whether an osteoplastic resection is feasible. If the skull is over a quarter of an inch thick I would much prefer multiple adjacent trephine-openings, with removal of the inter- vening bony tissue. Otherwise the Wagner-Wolff method is undoubt- edly by far the best method of opening the skull. A bony flap as large as 11 by 9 centimetres has been made by Wagner. When the operation is completed, the bone is simply turned back on its hinge, a bit of it is gnawed away by the rongeur forceps if drainage is to be employed, and the bone is held in place by the ordinary sutures through the scalp alone. Care should be taken not to cut away the margins of the vitreous table, which will project from the under surface of the mar- gins of the opening in the skull, in order that when the flap of bone is replaced it may lie upon them as supports, and not press upon the brain. Before turning the flap back into position the edges of the fractured portion should be freed from any splinters. Dr. Griffin, of Lincoln, Nebraska, has thus avoided serious disaster from the penetration of the dura by such a splinter. When the cranial cavity is opened, the dura may be separated from the bone by Horsley’s dural separator (Fig. 1682). This will en- able the surgeon to examine the inner surface of the skull and to detect irregularities. With care, the little finger may readily be inserted be- tween the dura and the bone—and afterward if need be, between the dura and the brain—and the bone and brain may be examined over a 1 Centralbl. f. Cliir., 1889, No. 47. 2 Med. Record, June 16, 1894.