( 305 ) VOL. VII.—20 VENEREAL DISEASES: GONORRHCEA. BY J. WILLIAM WHITE, M.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE UNIVERSITY, PHILADELPHIA AND GERMAN HOSPITALS, PHILADELPHIA. Nature of Gonorrhcea. The pathological and experimental arguments in favor of the speci- ficity of gonorrhoea now far outweigh the clinical evidence heretofore adduced. While they fall short of actual demonstration of the invaria- ble association of a definite micro-organism—the gonococcus of Neisser —and the symptoms of the disease, and while, further, the same micrococci, or others indistinguishable from them, have been found in various normal secretions, yet the almost constant presence, in acute urethritis of high grade, of large numbers of gonococci, and the fact that Bumm, Anfuso, Wertheim, and Gebhard have produced the disease by inoculation of pure cultures, would seem to show a definite relation. The medico-legal value of this relation is, however, impaired by the fact that Lustgarten, Mannaberg, Legrain, Poney, and others have shown that the normal urethra may contain diplococci identical in all respects with Neisser’s gonococci, found like them in epithelial and lymphoid cells, and having the same peculiarities as to staining, etc. Pathology of Gonorrhcea. Brewer 1 describes as follows the pathological processes in an ordinary case of gonorrhoea: A small amount of purulent material containing gon- ococci is deposited during the sexual act upon the mucous membrane of the fossa navicularis. These living organisms penetrate the epithelial covering of the mucous membrane, and, finding their way through and between the superficial cells, eventually reach the upper stratum of the subepithelial connective tissue. The irritation caused by this microbian invasion results in an acute hypersemia of the part, with dilatation of the capillary vessels and exudation of serum. There is also an in- creased glandular secretion with epithelial exfoliation. Subsequently, an abundant transudation of leucocytes takes place from the dilated capillary vessels. These, during their outward passage through the epithelial layer, absorb and carry with them large numbers of gonococci. If the urethra is examined at this time, the mucous membrane will be 1 Morrow's Cyclopedia of Genito-Urinary Diseases, p. 151.