43 WOUND-TREATMENT. “ aseptic method” of Lister stood forth in bold relief against all these others, and it cannot be too frequently insisted upon that it was the first based in all its particulars upon the germ theory of infection, and con- sequently the only method which, in a systematic way, sought to pre- vent the entrance of micro-organisms into wounds. In the course of its further development it has come to pass that the words “antiseptic” and “aseptic” are used in a somewhat different sense from that which they at first imparted. Other methods than those based on the anti- septic principle are now no longer recognized. There are two ways of rationally applying this principle in wound-treatment. Following the one, we attempt to destroy all living germs deposited on instruments, upon the hands of the surgeon, the dressings, and other articles that are brought in contact with wounds, by subjecting them to sterilization by heat or chemical agents. When this has once been thoroughly accom- plished, the further use of antiseptics is discontinued, and care is espe- cially taken that these are not brought in contact with the wound itself. Such methods are termed aseptic. When, however, we con- tinue the use of chemical germicides during operations by irrigating the wound surfaces with antiseptic solutions and by immersing our hands in the latter, when we employ dressings impregnated with them, and when during the further treatment we take similar precautions, we are employing “antiseptic” methods. The first is certainly the ideal form of wound-treatment. If we can accomplish the same by both, that method which does away with the irritating effects of strong antiseptics upon wound surfaces deserves preference. It follows from what has been said that we would to-day include Lis- ter's original aseptic method among our modern antiseptic methods. It will be of interest in this connection to follow the changes which have taken place in the latter until the systems in use to-day have been de- veloped. Not many years after Lister’s publications, attention was called to the great inconvenience of the spray during operations and the application of dressings. So great had been the improvement in the results of wound-treatment since the Listerian method had been adopted, and so firm had the belief in all its details become, that it seemed a hazardous proceeding to discard one of the latter, deemed by its in- ventor of the greatest importance. Lister’s method was based on the assumption that infectious germs were everywhere suspended in the air, and that it was necessary, in order to render them harmless, to destroy them by some antiseptic in the shape of spray, before they should fall upon wound surfaces. When the great drawbacks of the spray, the drenching of both patient and surgeon, the interference with close ob- servation on the part of the latter, and particularly the cooling off of the patient during certain critical operations, became apparent, the question of its real worth was more critically approached, and experi- ments were made to test the efficacy of the spray in preventing the en- trance of active germs suspended in the air into sterilized culture tubes. While these demonstrated that some influence was undoubtedly exerted upon the growth of germs which had passed through a cloud of spray, they also showed that the vitality of these germs was not entirely destroyed. About at the same time Trendelenburg, and also Bruns, had found that the results of antiseptic treatment were equally good, whether the spray was used or not. Now it is a well-established fact