1043 HOSPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO PROMOTE ASEPTIC SURGERY. looking north, and a large skylight. The windows and skylight are of obscured glass, so that the light which enters is thoroughly diffused, and strong and annoying cross-lights are prevented. The lighting is by both gas and electricity. The structure is of brick, with a slate roof, and corresponds in general appearance with the other buildings upon the grounds. The only departure from the method of heating adopted in the remainder of the buildings is in the location of the heat- ing flues at a height of six feet from the floor, it having been found by experience that this arrangement prevents annoying draughts of air upon the patients. The new operating-pavilion of the Presbyterian Hospital in New York was completed in 1892. The seating capacity of the main amphi- theatre is one hundred per- sons; it is in the upper story of the two in the building, and is shown in Pig. 1798. It is finely lighted by large skylights and three great sidelights on the north, south, and east. The wainscoting and floor are of marble, and the doors are heavy slabs of the same material. In the basement story, which is on a level with the corri- dor communicating with other parts of the hospital, there are two other operat- ing-rooms to be used when seclusion is desirable; there are also a recovery-room and an etlierizing-room, and those for instruments, etc. This building is a remarkable example of the adap- tation of stone and iron to special devices of construction, excluding the use of wood almost entirely. The Eoosevelt Hospital, in New York City, presents the most re- markable structure of this kind that is now in existence. It is the William J. Syms operating theatre, a memorial building, for which the bequest was $350,000. It was completed in 1892, and was equipped at a cost of about two hundred thousand dollars; and the residue provides a fund for its maintenance. It is two stories high in front and three stories in the rear. The amphitheatre occupies the centre of the build- ing, and is lighted by a glass dome with a northern exposure, admitting the rays of light above and behind the audience; as far as possible the light that illuminates the operating-table is made to enter the room from behind the observer, and nearly parallel with his line of vision, with the exclusion of all cross-rays. The plan of the first floor may be seen in Fig. 1799. Dr. Charles McBurney, Attending Surgeon to the Hospital, was made responsible, in the will of the donor, for the construction and equip- ment of the building. The main entrance on Fifty-ninth Street is in- tended for the students of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, the Fig. 1798. Operating Pavilion, Presbyterian Hospital, New York.