17 CHEMIOTAXIS OF LEUCOCYTES AND BACTERIAL INFECTION. Bouchard’s1 results, as well as those of Massart and Bordet, show dis- tinctly that in animals in which the immunity has been enfeebled by one of the predisposing causes, the leucocytes lose the faculty of collect- ing in front of the bacteria. In regard to what produces this loss of chemiotactic power in the leucocytes, Bouchard concludes that the bac- terial products exercise a stupefying action upon them. When a steri- lized culture of bacteria is introduced into the circulation, the white globules appear paralyzed and no longer collect in the neighborhood of the virulent bacteria; but the observations of Massart and Bordet, and of Metclinikoff,2 show that this loss of power does not result from paralysis of the leucocytes, because they move in their ordinary way, and also englobe small foreign bodies as well as bacteria other than the in- vading ones; and Bouchard, in his later essay upon the Theory of In- fection, insists upon a second hypothesis, maintaining that pathogenic bacteria, or at least those he has worked upon, secrete a substance that paralyzes the vaso-dilator centre, and that the vaso-dilator paralysis thus produced prevents the inflammatory phenomena, especially vas- cular dilatation, exudation, and diapedesis, from occurring in the in- jured part. In this way the bacteria are relieved of one of the destroy- ing causes, phagocytosis, and can develop, flourish, and produce their secretions in perfect freedom; but Massart and Bordet object to the methods employed to prove this, that it has not been demonstrated that the desiccation of the nerve, or its having undergone several times and at intervals the action of induced currents, does not play a principal part in the results mentioned by Charran and Gamaleia,3 and by Char- ran and Agley.4 To accept the conclusions of these authors, it must be admitted that successive and supposed identical irritations have given reflexes of depression equal among themselves, which is a point not yet determined. The method adopted by Massart and Bordet was employed upon white rabbits and guinea-pigs. They inoculated into the animals, subcuta- neously, a very small quantity of the bacilli of blue pus, and at the same time made an intra-peritoneal or subcutaneous injection of a ster- ilized culture of the same bacillus, or of the bacillus prodigiosus. Im- mediately after this operation, the middle of one of the ears was very lightly cauterized, and it was easy to determine whether this procedure produced vascular dilatation, which their experiments showed that it did. Even if the doses were made so large as to produce death by direct toxic effect, they were not capable of interfering with vascular dilatation. These observers have attempted to discover for themselves what are the predisposing causes of infection, studying the method of action of four—the injection of bacterial products, varnishing, anaesthe- sia, and the presence of lactic acid—and have reached the conclusion that the increase of receptivity is dependent upon various causes, of which the following are some: First, the leucocytes float in fluids charged with products secreted either by bacteria or by altered cells. 'Action of Products Secreted by the Pathogenic Bacteria, Paris, 1889; and also, Upon a Theory of Infection. Proceedings of the 10th International Medical Congress, Berlin, 1890. 2 On the Struggle of the Cells of the Organism against the Invasion of Bacteria. Annales de 1’Institut Pasteur, 25 Juillet, 1887. 8 On Inflammation. Comptes Rendus de la Societe de Biologie, 5 Juillet, 1890. 4 Experimental Research upon an Action of Products secreted by the Bacillus Pyoeyaneus on the Yaso-motor Nerve System. Arch, de Physiol. Norm, et Pathol., Octohre, 1890. VOL. VII.—2