54 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. that this procedure is a guarantee of absolute sterilization. Experi- ments by Braatz have shown that spores of anthrax, adhering to the ex- ternal surface of catgut, can remain in this alcoholic sublimate solution for four days and not lose their vitality, hut that cultures can no longer be obtained when such threads have been suspended in a watery solu- tion of sublimate, 1-1000, for only twenty minutes. There is, there- fore, no reason for the preparation of catgut in alcoholic solutions, if there are no other disadvantages attaching to the use of watery solu- tions. It is true, the textile strength of the gut is considerably affected by aqueous solutions of sublimate, much more certainly than by strong solutions of sublimate in alcohol. This is, however, of minor impor- tance when compared with the question of thorough disinfection. Even if, by the method to be presently described, wTe produce catgut that occasionally tears, the additional labor during an operation on this account is hardly worth considering. On the other hand, when freshly prepared catgut has lost some of its strength, we may rely on its having been pretty effectively sterilized. The surest mode of chem- ical sterilization, therefore, is the immersion of the gut, after it is taken from the ether, in a 1-1000 aqueous solution of sublimate. It is important that the antiseptic should have uniform access to every part of the gut. If the coils of the latter are tied together with threads, these ought to be very loose, or otherwise the gut, swelling as it im- bibes the sublimate solution, will be constricted at these points and not properly disinfected there. The gut remains in the solution for twelve hours, the fluid being renewed once or twice during this time. Kiim- mel believes that six hours for the finer, and twelve hours for the coarser qualities, will effect certain sterilization. If the gut is not wound on reels, which is a better plan, it will curl in the sublimate and will finally form a much-entangled mass of threads, from which, how- ever, the individual threads may be drawn without much difficulty, and may then be wound on sterilized glass reels or plates. Then the gut is placed in absolute alcohol. Sterilization by heat, as everywhere else in the aseptic system, has also been applied to catgut, but in this instance with only moderately satisfactory result. Boiling water and steam in a few minutes convert gut into a shapeless, glutinous mass. After boiling in oil or gly- cerin the gut becomes very brittle, and too much of its strength is sacrificed. Xylol, the boiling point of which is 130-140° C., is recom- mended by Brunner, who states that catgut may remain in it, when heated to 100° C., for many hours without losing any of its essential qualities, and that this is more or less the case when the temperature is raised to the boiling point of xylol. This method would answer well if we could assume that the gut was sterilized by this procedure, hut such does not seem to be the case. It is a well-known fact, which ap- plies also to xylol, that oily antiseptic mixtures possess little disinfect- ing power when compared to watery solutions, because they cannot penetrate as well. Another fluid has, however, been employed lately, and, as it appears, very successfully, for boiling catgut, namely alcohol. Boiling alcohol possesses very marked germicidal power. It will more readily destroy the most virulent germs without injuring the quality of the gut than any other antiseptic solution. It rather increases the textile strength of the gut, and it makes it less slippery. It further-