INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 964 different forms of the affection may be explained on the same grounds. It may be objected to the theory of septic infection that urinary fever may he met with in cases in which no wound or injury has been in- flicted upon the urethra—as, for example, in instances of simple cathe- terization. Such occurrences are sometimes put down as being of nervous origin—shock. Before, however, attributing them to that uncertain source, it must be definitely shown that the conditions for septic infection positively do not exist. In such a case, is it known absolutely that the urethra was not wounded or abraded in some part by the passage of the instrument? Was the catheter itself sterile? and, thirdly, was the urine of the patient free from pathogenic organ- isms? As to the first question, it will often be found upon endoscopic examination of the urethra, after even the gentlest passage of a sound or catheter, that a small rent or abrasion of the mucous membrane has been made, when there is no external evidence to prove it, and when the patient’s own sensations also fail to disclose it. Here, then, we see, unsuspected, a point for infection to take place. Doubtless most of the cases of urinary fever of so-called nervous origin will, then, find their true explanation as being due to septic infection. It may be that the several different types of urinary fever cannot be explained on the same grounds, but it seems reasonable, in the light of our present knowledge of bacteriology, to attribute the variation in type to differences in degree of septic infection. Doubtless, further developments in the study of bacteriological chemist^ will shed light upon these as well as upon many other pathological problems. Treatment of Urinary Fever.—The demonstration of the septic nature of urinary fever has led to the employment of antiseptic meas- ures in its treatment, especially in the direction of prevention. These preventive measures include the local and general preparation of the patient, as well as the careful sterilization of all instruments used in an operation on the genito-urinary tract, however trifling it may be. First, as to the general preparation of the patient. Whenever it is possible, that is, when the time can be afforded, he should, before being submitted to any operation, especially in cases of prolonged vesi- cal or urethral disease, be compelled to rest in bed for two or three days previously. The condition of the alimentary tract should be carefully regulated by the administration of a purge, preferably a mercurial followed by a saline. After this he should be placed upon treat- ment with a drug capable of exercising an antiseptic effect upon the urine. For this purpose boric acid, first suggested by Dr. E. R. Palmer,1 has given very satisfactory results. It should be given in powder or capsule, in ten-grain doses every three or four hours for a day or two preceding the proposed operation, and should he continued for some days afterward. This remedy may be administered without appre- hension of its causing any irritating effects. My own experience with it, and I have used it in numerous cases, has been singularly favorable. It seldom happens that unpleasant symptoms are caused by it, but occasion- ally a patient may be met with upon whom it appears to exercise a de- pressing influence, and causes a headache of such severity as to demand the discontinunce of the drug. Another internal antiseptic which has 1 Journ. Cutan. and Genito-Urin. Dis., 1887, vol. v., p. 404.