968 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. On presenting himself for treatment some time after the accident, the integuments of the penis were hanging down on the anterior sur- face of the scrotum in the shape of a flabby and shortened cutaneous tube. The opening was contracted and would not admit a little finger. A cicatricial opening existed at the scroto-penile fold through which the urine was passed. On erection the penis remained entirely within the scrotum. An attempt was made to replace the penis in its cutaneous tube by (a) a crucial enlargement of the preputial orifice; (b) dilatation of the tube cavity by big-sized drainage-tubes and tupelo tents; (c) division of a cicatricial partition which existed one and a half inches back; (d) dilatation of the incision; (e) breaking down the adhesions between the glans and the scrotum, and (/) attempts at dragging out the glans from its scrotal cavity into the now prepared cutaneous tube. All these, however, utterly failed, the main obstacle being formed by a dense cicatricial constriction in the upper portion of the restored canal. A plastic operation was then resorted to. Having split up the integu- mental tube from the preputial opening to the superior one, as well as the scrotum, the author sewed (a) the free preputial edge with the remnants of the foreskin on the glans, (b) the edges of the penile in- tegumental incision with the scrotal flaps, and (c) the latter anteriorly and interiorly with the remnants of the inner layer of the foreskin on the glans. The silk sutures used were removed on the sixth and eighth days, and the wounds healed by first intention. The member then measured two inches from the glans to the pubes, and to the patient’s delight proved effective for all his purposes. The penis increased markedly in length. The author only found accounts of four other cases in the literature of the last forty years; they were those of Nela- ton, Bonnain, Hej^enberg, and Moldenhauser. The first two were scrotal luxations, the third was successfully reduced on the tenth day, and the last was a hypogastric luxation in a man aged fifty-seven years. [The editor saw at the Pennsylvania Hospital, about two years ago, a remarkable case in which by traumatism the urethra had been torn across in the scrotal region, and was completely invaginated through the meatus, protruding from the end of the glans penis as a flexible tube, about the thickness of a lead-pencil and covered by mucous mem- brane. As reduction could not be effected, the invaginated urethra was excised, and an opening was made in the perineum to allow of urination. The patient made a good recovery.] Fracture of the Penis.—A case of fracture of the penis came under the care of Krog,1 in which a man supposed to be suffering from cbordee had allowed a window to fall on the distorted organ. Eight days after the injury the penis was swollen to six or eight times its normal size, and of a purplish color. There was no pain, and the urine was passed with no great trouble, though slowly. Preputial Calculi.—These not only arise from small fragments passed from the bladder and retained by a contracted preputial orifice, but they originate also in situ, either from retained and decomposing urine in a dilated foreskin, or from an infiltration of retained smegma by lime salts deposited from the urine. Jenkins2 gives the case of a 1 Medical Record, vol. xli., 1892, p. 397. 2 Annals of Surgery, 1887, vol. v., p. 211,