INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. 796 mucous membrane. During the late epidemic of influenza an unusual number of pharyngeal abscesses have been observed. Symptoms.—The symptoms of pharyngeal abscess vary according to the portion of the pharynx affected. When seated in the upper or middle pharynx, dysphagia is often the sole symptom. This often exists to such an extent as to preclude the taking of solid food. When situ- ated in the lower pharynx there is often an interference with respira- tion, and we find dyspnoea added to the dysphagia. In a case seen by myself, in which the abscess occurred low down in the pharynx and involved the epiglottic folds, the dyspnoea was accompanied by great stridor. The constitutional symptoms vary greatly in individual cases, and depend largely upon the cause of the suppuration. In some they are entirely absent. In others they resemble the ordinary symptoms accompanying a suppurative inflammation. In children, according to Bokai, convulsions frequently accompany the disease. In acute in- flammatory cases pain may be the predominating symptom, and it may be so intense as to prohibit the taking of food. In the subacute or chronic abscess pain may be entirely absent, and the sole symptom may be the dysphagia or dyspnoea. When the pus burrows in the lines of connective tissue, the symptoms will depend upon the point invaded and the subsequent glandular inflammation involved in the process. When the vertebrae are in a condition of caries, there is a tendency on the part of the patient to keep the head in a fixed position, inclining backward. When the abscess is laterally situated, the head is inclined to the sound side. A characteristic act of swallowing is seen when the subacute or chronic abscess is laterally situated. As the food or liquid is projected below the palate, through a movement of the tongue, with a sideway upward jerk of the head, the patient seeks to bring it to the free side. Retropharyngeal abscess may occur at any age, but is seen most frequently in children. Bokai, in the Children’s Hospital at Pesth, who has studied the disease through a period of twenty-six years, reports the occurrence of 204 cases. This is the largest number reported by a single individual, as very few writers have seen more than from four to ten cases. Diagnosis.—-Simple inspection of the pharynx, with the tongue well depressed, will reveal the condition when the abscess is situated in the upper part of the pharynx. Illumination with the laryngeal reflector will render it more evident. When the abscess lies in the pharyngo-larynx the laryngeal mirror will bring it into view. In the greater number of cases palpation with the finger will detect the rounded fluctuating swelling. A gummatous tumor in a state of degeneration, or a growth of the posterior pharynx, might possibly mislead the care- less observer. A gumma, however, never gives the peculiar fluctuat- ing feel of an abscess, and the hardness of the malignant growth is a marked differential point. A lymphoma or lympho-sarcoma will also be characterized by slowness of growth. In one of my cases an os- teo-sarcoma of the pharynx produced the same difficulty of swallowing that is seen in retropharyngeal abscess, but a hard solid tumor could be felt low down, a little above the larynx. In this case the marked constitutional condition, with the hardness of the tumor, rendered the diagnosis certain.