587 ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. Excepting extra-dural abscess, we have as yet no means of accurately distinguishing these forms during life. If the abscess has arisen from traumatism, it will generally lie under the site of the injury, in which case a scar will commonly be a guide to its location. It may, however, exist on the opposite side of the head, caused by laceration of the brain from contre-coup. Its position should be determined much more by the localizing cerebral symptoms than by the history, or by the scar, which may be at a distance, as for instance in Macewen’s case,1 in which though the cicatrix was on the forehead the abscess existed in Broca's lobe, and as in Harrisson’s case already alluded to. The differential diagnosis between abscesses in the cerebrum’ and in the cerebellum will be considered under Abscess from Ear Disease. The abscess may contain only a drachm or two of pus, or on the other hand may involve the greater portion of one hemisphere. Intracranial abscesses are commonly single, but in cases of pysemic or tubercular origin they are more apt to be multiple. If of large size they frequently burst into the lateral ventricles. Thus Koerner2 records that there were 10 instances of rupture into a lateral ventricle in 100 cases of abscess, and in one, rupture into the fourth ventricle. These ruptures are invariably fatal. Symptoms.—The symptoms of intracranial abscess are threefold: 1, Those due to the suppurative process; 2, those due to pressure; and 3, the focal or localizing symptoms. 1. Symptoms due to the Suppurative Process.—The general rule that suppuration is attended with a rise of temperature has its most important exception, as shown by Hulke in 1886, in intracranial abscess, in which, unless the abscess be extra-dural, the temperature is commonly and often constantly either normal or subnormal, even when the patient is desperately ill. Sometimes there is a slight rise at the be- ginning, and again toward the end of the disease there may be a second rise, often accompanied by delirium, only to be followed by another fall and a still later rise if life is sufficiently prolonged ; but if the patient is in grave peril, with the ordinary symptoms of intracranial lesion and with a subnormal temperature, abscess should be the first thought in the surgeon’s mind. A chill not uncommonly occurs, but may be absent. The ordinary phenomena of illness, that is, anorexia, vomiting, general malaise, are present. According to Somerville, when there is pus in the brain the urinary chlorides will be below normal in quantity, and the phosphates above. If the abscess is large, possibly peptonuria may exist. 2. Symptoms due to Pressure.—Headache is usually exceedingly severe, so that the patient is constantly moaning. It may be lo- cated over the lesion, but is often either general, or misleading in its position. The pulse, as pointed out by Hulke, is always slow, and may fall even to 30 or 10. The respiration may be Cheyne-Stokes in char- acter. The mind becomes dull, and the apathy may gradually deepen into coma, the bowels and bladder being then evacuated involuntarily. Convulsions of the epileptiform type sometimes occur, but not uncom- monly are absent. Sensation is not generally impaired. Optic neur- itis is not a reliable symptom, excepting perhaps in extra-dural abscess. 1 Loc. cit., p. 303, case i. 2 Arch. f. Ohrenheilk., Bd. xxix., 1889, S. 15.