SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 612 are situated the most important and vital centres. Even, however, if not removable, great comfort can be given to the patient, as already stated, by the removal of the bone. The remote prognosis is a very different matter. If the tumor be malignant, it will return as a rule in the brain, as elsewhere. If it he tubercular or syphilitic, the probabilities of a permanent cure are good; and if it be benign, recurrence is of course not probable. It must be remembered that during the growth of the tumor, how- ever, certain changes have been produced by it, just as a bullet in its pathway to its resting-place has inflicted a certain amount of permanent injury; and the removal of either bullet or tumor will not remedy the damage already done. Hence, if optic neuritis has continued long enough to he followed by atrophy of the optic nerve, it is hopeless to expect that the blindness can be remedied; though I have seen it often improved, even after many years’ duration of a tumor. So, too, the paralysis of an arm or leg is apt to lessen to some extent, but we must not expect it entirely to disappear. If the epileptic habit has been formed, the removal of the tumor will probably modify, and sometimes may even stop, the attacks. Treatment of Brain Tumors.—The operative procedure in connec- tion with the removal of brain tumors may be very briefly described, since the chief points have been alluded to in connection with the section on technique. The median line and the fissure of Rolando are first to be located, and the upper and lower ends of the latter should be marked by punc- turing the bone with a gimlet or small gouge. The centre of the pre- sumed location of the tumor should be similarly marked. A large semilunar or horseshoe flap should then be made, with the position of the tumor as its centre. A large opening should then be effected in the skull, from one and a half to three inches in diameter, either by the trephine or the chisel. The dura should be opened, either to a large ex- tent, if the pressure is not too great, or first to a small extent, to admit of exploration, and the opening enlarged later if deemed necessary (see caution on p. 611), The tumor, having been found, may occasionally be enucleated by the finger; hut if not, the knife, the scissors, the sharp spoon, or the handle of an ordinary teaspoon may be used to remove it, either in its entirety or piecemeal. If it be an infiltrating tumor, and therefore probably malignant, it is of the utmost importance that a considerable amount of apparently healthy brain tissue should be removed beyond its margins, so as to be certain that all the diseased tissue has been taken away. This may involve important cerebral centres; hut a tumor is no respecter of persons or centres, and the surgeon must be ruthlessly thorough if he remove it at all. If the tumor be subcortical, an incision should be made in the brain, and the tumor be sought for by the little finger, inserted with great gentleness, and also by the probe or grooved director, in order to recog- nize its size, depth, character, etc. If it be so large that it is not wise to attempt its removal, the operation should be immediately terminated, the dura sutured and the flap replaced, the hone not being restored. In some cases of large tumor only a portion of the tumor has been re-