• ■ ' (125) HYDROPHOBIA. BY J. MCFADI)EN GASTON, M.D., PROFESSOR OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY IN THE SOUTHERN MEDICAL COL- LEGE, ATLANTA, GA. ; PRESIDENT OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF MEDICINE; EX-PRESI- DENT OF THE SOUTHERN SURGICAL AND GYNAECOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION, AND OF THE SECTION OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY IN THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION. A most remarkable incredulity in regard to the existence of the affection known by the designation of rabies, in animals, and by that of hydrophobia in the human race, has been manifested by certain mem- bers of the medical profession. No deduction from facts avails any- thing to convince these gentlemen of the reality of the phenomena, which constitute a group of symptoms, attributed to inoculation, by bites or other means, of the virus from animals affected with a peculiar form of disease involving the secreting and nerve centres. It is gen- erally recognized that there is no remedy available for the cure of hydrophobia when once developed in the human being; and the isolated cases which are supposed to have been cured by various agencies are set aside by well-founded doubts as to the diagnosis. This question of simulated symptoms does not enter into our consideration of genuine cases; and it is passing strange that intelligent members of the medical profession should be misled by such cases into a denial of the facts brought out by the history of this disease in animals and in mankind. The great variety of developments presented in different subjects has no doubt much to do in awakening the incredulity of those who have read the reports of cases of hydrophobia without seeing a patient under its dreadful spell. In this instance, emphatically, “seeing is believ- ing.” No argument will be required to convince any observer of the reality of the disease when brought in contact witli a subject under its influence, and he will then become impressed with his utter im- potency in affording relief. This disorder presents a great variety of modifications in different subjects, and yet there are certain features which are uniformly ob- served as characteristics of these cases, and which progress with such intensity as to terminate fatally in most instances. Active means of treatment applied early and vigorously have availed little toward avert- ing death, and by whatever name this disease may be recognized, the reality of it cannot be doubted by any one who has ever met with it and had occasion to treat it. As to the propriety of characterizing this train of neurotic troubles by the term hydrophobia, which indicates only one of the symptoms, not invariably present, there may be