954 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. of steel shafts connected together, as explained by Otis 1 in his descrip- tion of it, “by short pivotal bars on the plan of the ordinary parallel ruler.” A screw upon the handle opens or closes these, and at the same time operates an indicator telling the degree of separation of the bars in the French scale. The small knife of the instrument, which is but 2 mm. in width, is mounted upon the end of a slender steel shaft, which traverses a groove in the upper bar. When home, the little Fig. 1758. blade is concealed in a depression at the end of the groove. On one side of the upper bar is a scale upon which can be read the distance from the meatus at which the incision, on projecting the knife, will be made. The stricture is cut from behind forward, traction upon the handle drawing the blade from the deepened end of the groove a little distance forward, when it is made to project by an elevation in the floor of the groove. Division of the stricture having been accomplished, the knife is again pushed home, and the blades are separated to the necessary extent. If the stricture offers no resistance to this, the instrument is withdrawn from the urethra. The calibre of the Otis urethrotome when closed is 15 F., and it can be expanded to No. 45. Another modern urethrotome deserving of notice is that of Gerster.1 It is called by its inventor a “self-registering aseptic dilating ure- Fig. 1759. Gerster’s Dilating Urethrotome. throtome.” The instrument is made of five parts, which can be easily detached—three steel rods (one of which carries the knife) and two screws, a thumb-screw, serving to separate the dilating rods, and a check screw securing the correct adjustment of the thumb-screw’, and representing the proximal end of the urethrotome. The instrument is, when closed, of the same calibre (15 F.) as the better known one of Otis, and like it can be expanded to calibre 45. The main advantage in favor of Gerster’s instrument is that it can be taken apart without difficulty and cleansed with certainty. (Fig. 1759.) 1 Op. cit. 2 New York Med. Journ., 1889, vol. xlix., p. 688.