INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 984 10 Central'olatt fur Chirurgie, No. 13, 1894. 11 Annals of Surgery, vol. xvii., p. 448. been quite extensively practised. When the testicle could be forced out of the inguinal canal, Mr. Wood recommended the application of a truss to prevent its return. Tuffier 1 recommends repeated traction as favoring the descent of the testicle. He does not advise operation until after the age of fifteen.2 One of the difficulties in the way of operative success has been the tendency of the testicle to re-ascend. Wood and Annandale, to prevent this, stitched the testicle to the bottom of the scrotum. Watson Cheyne3 passed a thread through the structures of the cord and attached it to a wire cage. Bidwell4 operated on three cases as follows: He made an incision as for the radical cure of hernia, but did not cut the scrotum. The cord was then loosened, and the testicle inverted and placed in the scrotum, a thread being passed through its lower part and fastened by means of an elastic tube to the wire cage of Cheyne. The elastic traction dragged the testicle down into the scrotum by the third day. The tunica vaginalis was opened and divided just above the testicle, the abdominal end being closed by a ligature. Lucas Championniere6 lays stress on dividing all adhesions, then preventing the receding of the testicle by thoroughly closing the upper part of the scrotum and external ring. Keetly,6 after suturing the divided tunica vaginalis over the testicle, carried a piece through a puncture in the scrotum and sutured it to the deep fascia of the thigh. Broca7 regards unfavorably the attempts to prevent upward recession of the organ by means of a cord or thread running from it to some fixed point below. This object is rather to be accomplished by means of a firm closure of the canal from above downward. Terrillon8 operated on six cases in children from nine to fifteen years of age. In three the testicle remained down, and became enlarged; in one it became enlarged, but was drawn up again in spite of a truss; while in the other two it was drawn up again and did not enlarge, though two and two and a half years respectively had elapsed. When the testicle is retained it is covered by peritoneum and bound down by tough fibrous adhesions. It is atrophied, and its removal is advised. Mr. Jacobson J prefers operating between the ages of eight and ten, before sexual changes set in, as misplaced testes tend to degenerate, while if replaced they growr and develop better. In children of the poor, where time is an object, he considers it justifiable to operate earlier, especially if a troublesome hernia coexists, or if there have been attacks of pain. Before the age of two or three years operation is inadmissible. Besanzon 10 advises operation when other means of treatment have failed and the testicle is movable. The best time he claims to be be- tween the ages of eleven and thirteen years. The radical operation for hernia should be done at the same time. In some cases the testicle de- scends spontaneously. McBurney 11 records a case of sarcoma occurring in the undescended testicle of a young man. Two rare cases of strangulated hernia associated with misplaced testi- 1 La Semaine Medicale, 1889, p. 125. 2 Gazette des Hopitaux, 28 Mars, 1890. 3 British Medical Journal, vol. i., 1890, p. 351. 4 Lancet, June 17, 1893, vol. i., p. 1439. 5 Bulletin de la Societe de Cbirurgie, 1887, p. 658. 6 British Medical Journal, 1894, vol. i., p. 860. 1 Gazette Hebdomadaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie, 15 Oct., 1892. 8 La Semaine Medicale, 13 Janv., 1893. 9 Op. cit., p. 485.