SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 140 diagnosis of a tuberculous process complete without a demonstration of the bacillus, which he can make for himself by methods well known and easily executed. The two etiological factors of the production of tuber- culosis in the human being are the bacillus and predisposition. The bacillus is a parasitic plant, rarely saprophytic, and the human being, the ruminants, with rabbits, guinea-pigs, and other animals, are its hosts, and from these, by means of infection, the process is transmitted to others. This is done in one of a great many different ways, but the tubercle bacillus, or its spore, is always introduced into the healthy animal. The fact that the spores of the bacillus elude detec- tion except by culture, gives rise to the possibility of deductions that may have to be revised in the future. Infection of the human being takes place either by way of a mucous membrane, from a lesion of the skin, or during intrauterine life, from either the male or the female. The hereditary form of tuberculosis has been a subject fruitful of dis- cussion. In the early days of the discovery of the bacillus, heredity as a factor in the production of tuberculosis was almost swept away. Not- withstanding the accumulated evidence of ages, the adherents of the bacillary nature of the disease felt themselves constrained to deny the existence of hereditary tuberculosis; the fact that the bacillus could be transmitted from parent to offspring did not enter into their calcula- tions as an additional evidence of the important role which it played. At the present day, Galtier has proven the existence of congeni- tal tuberculosis experimentally, and observations by Lucas, Schmorl and Birch-Hirschfeld, Baumgarten, Landouzy, McFadyean and others, make it imperative to accept this form of tuberculosis. In these cases the bacilli or their spores pass through the membranes of the placenta, and infection of the fruit takes place. The mucous membrane may become infected either by inhalation of the tubercle bacillus (respiratory tract), by the swallowing of infected food (gastro-intestinal tract), or by direct contact with the bacillus in other ways. The mode of infection seems to vary with age; in chil- dren we find the intestinal tract with its adnexa most commonly affected, in adults it is the respiratory tract. Milk is the most common carrier of infection for children; for adults it is the breathing in of dried tuber- cle bacilli. The fact that not all who breathe or swallow tubercle bacilli, proba- bly not the majority, become tubercular, and certain other facts, have led to the reacceptance of the idea of predisposition. When an enthusiast (Cornet) says that the human being is just as much predisposed to be- coming infected by the tubercle bacillus as a soldier in battle is predis- posed to being struck by a bullet, it marks a period in bacillary litera- ture characterized by acceptance of laboratory facts, regardless of clinical experience and medical tradition. As there are animals im- mune to the tubercle bacillus, so there are doubtless human beings in whom it would be impossible to cause the tubercle bacillus to grow. Predisposition is of two kinds: permanent and temporary. The first inherited, congenital, or dependent upon some peculiarity of structural or metabolic function not definable at the present time; the second usually produced by some disease, whooping cough, measles, syphilis, or, locally, by some inflammatory lesion. Again, there may be a local or a general predisposition; the local predisposition is probably most