177 ADMINISTRATION OF ANAESTHETICS. periments upon animals have been practically verified upon man, they should be accepted with some reservation. From all the facts and ob- servations now before us, we may draw the following practical conclu- sions :— 1. The inhalation of any anaesthetic substance is not entirely free from danger. 2. Chloroform is a safe anaesthetic when skilfully administered. 3. Death is usually from respiratory failure, providing that the heart is physically and functionally healthy (a condition which is not unfrequently indeterminable). 4. Death from circulatory depression—vasomotor or cardiac, or both—may occur, but is usually preceded by disturbance of respiration. 5. Both the respiration and circulation should be watched, but of the two the former is probably the better criterion. 0. Prolonged, profound, or oft-repeated anaesthesia may produce seri- ous changes in the nervous system and also in the myocardium, which may be manifested, either definitely or indefinitely, for days or even weeks after anaesthesia is recovered from. Administration of Anaesthetics. Preparation of Patient.—From a medico-legal standpoint it is best to inform the patient or his friends, in the presence of a third party, that the inhalation of any anaesthetic is attended with some danger. A careful examination of the heart, lungs, and urine should be made before the anaesthetic is selected. The patient should not take any food, excepting beef-tea or clear bouillon, for at least six hours before an anaesthetic is given. Feeble and nervous patients, as well as drunkards, should be given some stimulant, or morphine with atropine hypodermi- cally, within one-lialf hour before inhalation is begun. The patient’s clothes should be loose, and so arranged as to admit of ready exposure of chest and abdomen. The patient should be told what sensations to expect. The eyes should be covered with a damp cloth to prevent irri- tation of fluid or vapor. If chloroform is to be used, the face may be protected by simple cerate or vaseline. Fear should at all times be al- layed by kindly reassurances, and by the avoidance of all reference to the operation until complete anaesthesia is obtained. Anaesthetist.—-Whatever the agent, the anaesthetist should be, if possible, one skilled in its use, and he should give liis whole attention to its administration. Ether should be preferred to chloroform unless the anaesthetist is skilled in the use of the latter. In addition to having a pure anaesthetic, he should have, at least, a pair of forceps, a hypoder- mic syringe, solutions of strychnine and atropine, tincture of digitalis, or digitalin, aromatic spirits of ammonia, and whiskey. It is well also to have an additional anaesthetic substance at hand. Ether.—It is necessary to exclude all air to produce complete anaes- thesia with ether, and hence a cone with impervious walls should be used. Glover’s, Allis's, Ormsby’s, and other inhalers are excellent in construction, but are, as a rule, cumbersome and often not at hand. VOL. VII.—12