724 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NOSE AND ACCESSORY SINUSES. the last few years. In a few cases only has the disease been recognized during life, and in still fewer has it been treated and cured. Ruault1 has reported a case in which the sinus was trephined, drained, and cured, the procedures being carried out through the nasal passage. The great anatomical variability of this sinus, and the obscurity of the symptoms caused by its diseased conditions, render its therapeutics at present most uncertain. Two cases of myxomatous polypus in the sphenoidal sinus have been reported, one by Zuckerkandl and the other by J. J. Clark;2 in both the growths were found by post-mortem examination. Purulent Inflammation of the Maxillary Sinus.—The diagnosis of antral disease has been greatly simplified by the introduction of the electric lamp into rhinological work. Trans-illumination is secured by introducing a five-volt lamp into the mouth and directing the patient to close the lips upon the handle; the room being darkened, the current is thrown on, and immediately a rosy-red light suffuses the face and gradually fades out as the eye is approached. If there be pus or a solid tumor in the antrum, that side of the face, especially opposite the molar prominence, is less bright than the opposite side. Cystic disease on the contrary gives more brilliant illumination of the affected side.3 If from any cause the walls of the sinus are thickened, the illumination may be defective, and the diagnosis is therefore not positive but only confirmatory. Purulent catarrh of the maxillary sinus, occurring as a sequel of acute or chronic rhinitis, very rarely calls for the radical measures lately in vogue. Many cases will get well without special treatment, if the nasal lesions can be cured, and even severe examples frequently recover without operative interference. All swellings which interfere with drainage from the antrum through its natural opening must first be removed—temporarily by cocaine, or permanently by applications of the galvano-cautery. The patient being instructed to lean the head toward the shoulder corresponding to the affected side, an atomizer throwing a strong coarse spray, or a nasal syringe, is introduced through the nasal speculum and pointed as nearly as ma}r be at the opening of the sinus into the middle meatus. The spray or jet is then thrown in- to the nasal chamber with some force, and this is repeated one or more times at each sitting. Several weeks of daily or tri-weekly treatment may be required, but convalescence is usually less prolonged than after operative interference, and the patient is saved much pain and annoy- ance. Any non-irritating antiseptic solution may be used for the pur- pose, but peroxide of hydrogen has been less reliable in my hands than solutions of boric and carbolic acids, borate of sodium, and the volatile oils. Intractable cases are only curable by drainage and irrigation, and the operation now almost universally favored is that of Mikulicz,'1 con- sisting in opening the sinus through the inferior meatus of the nose, either with a special knife or by means of a trocar. Dundas Grant advocates the use of a straight trocar and canula, three inches long by 1 Arch, de Lar., de Rliin., etc., Juin, 1890. 5 Journal of Laryngology and Rhinology, London, No. 2, 1892. 3 Heryng, Berlin, klin. Woch., Nos. 35 und 36, 1889. 4 Areliiv f. klin. Cliir., 1887.