SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 618 This, however, is to be said in extenuation of the operation, that an aseptic excision, followed by immediate primary union, leaves a scar much less likely to cause irritation than the coarse, irregular, branch- ing cicatrix which follows an infected trauma. Moreover, in not a few cases, the excision of a traumatic scar, and the substitution for it of the simple scar of an aseptic operation, has been followed by amelio- ration and, in some cases, by cure. The whole question, as yet, is under consideration, with a tendency, upon the part of surgeons, I think, to- ward less interference rather than more. The percentage of deaths is not large, perhaps from five to seven per cent., in these cases; and therefore it is reasonable to take the risk of an operation in so dreadful a disease. There is no probability that the pa- tient will be made worse. It is of great importance, in these cases, to make a large opening in the skull, best by the Wagner-Wolff method (see Technique), which allows of a much larger opening than the use of the trephine. This will enable us to recognize the convolutions, and by the battery to ascertain the exact location and limits of the desired cere- bral centre. It is possible that one of the reasons for the failure in many cases of operation for both this and the other forms of epilepsy which are suitable for interference, has been timidity as to removal of considerable portions of brain tissue. On the one hand, it is true that a wide re- moval will result in extensive paralysis of the parts supplied. But I have never yet seen this paralysis permanent. Either the opposite side takes up the work after a time, just as we learn to write with the left hand when we lose the right; or, as seems more probable, the area of brain cortex which supplies an extremity, or a part of it, as, for instance, the hand, the shoulder, or the face, overlaps and extends into neighboring brain centres, and the less used peripheral portion of the centre awakes to activity when the central portion is removed. It is to be remembered, especially, that removal of cerebral centres can be much more safely done in the antero-posterior direction than in the vertical; because if we go above or below the immediate centre in- volved, we are certain to remove parts of other and adjacent centres, and hence to produce a more widespread paralysis. In removing any portion of the cortex, one of the chief dangers is hemorrhage. The large veins in our way should therefore either be first tied, or, not uncommonly, the pia and its vessels can be stripped off from the underlying convolutions, and thus the vessels he avoided. The centre to be removed should be outline by the knife held vertically to the surface, and all of the gray matter should be removed down to the white substance. The after-treatment of these cases is that which is described in the section on technique. In all cases, however, the medicinal and dietetic after-treatment, especially by the bromides, should also he carefully and persistently carried out if we wish to obtain the best results. III. Jacksonian Epilepsy.—While more commonly non-traumatic, yet this sometimes follows injury. A few cases are reported in which momentary faradization of the cortical centres which are evidently diseased has produced a fit en- tirely analogous to those from which the patient has suffered. In a