661 SPINAL CARIES. also, both hip disease and spinal caries may be present from multiple tubercular foci. Deep palpation in the iliac fossae will often reveal a deposit of pus even when there is but slight deformity of the spine. Treatment of Spinal Caries.—Treatment by prolonged recumbency yields such superior results that it is largely adopted by those who have tested its merits. It inflicts no pain upon the patient, it lessens deformity, and its irksomeness is largely mitigated by the use of a suit- able bed frame, or tray, or stretcher, which permits the patient to live in the open air. This frame may be made of wood, or gas-pipe, flat iron, brass rods, or other metal. Canvas, linen, or other material is stretched across the frame. Defecation in young children can be readily managed. If the canvas is smooth and in one piece the child need not be removed from it, since the frame can be placed in any bed. The child, carried easily upon the tray, may be placed on supports in the open air, in a long baby coach, or upon a set of wheels, and may thus live out-of-doors nearly all the time. An awning may be erected over the carriage, and toj^s may be suspended at convenient places for the amusement even of an infant. A two-inch mattress placed upon such a stretcher in winter will protect the child from cold. When head or foot extension is desirable, the pulleys may be attached directly to the frame and extension maintained either by weight or by elastic bands. Counter-extension may be made by elevating one end of the stretcher. Cervical and upper dorsal cases necessarity require a long period of recumbency. Three months after the acute stage has passed the child maybe fitted with an apparatus and permitted to move about. Extension and Suspension.— Extension either in the horizontal or in the erect position has a most beneficial effect not only on the bones themselves but on the nutrition of the cord. Its employment in bed has already been described. In the sitting position it is best employed by fitting a strong, curved davit-arm to a chair,1 from the projection of which above the head of the patient a pulley may be rigged to attach to a well-fitting head-piece.2 The amount and the time of the extension must be regulated by the feelings of the patient. Additional extension from the armpits and thorax may be secured by shoulder-straps incor- porated in a plaster jacket. Mitchell says that a patient will bear a pull of from twenty to seventy pounds for five or six hours a day. Mechanical Appliances.—The immense variety of apparatus em- ployed shows that the inherent difficulties are many. One class of appliances, represented by plaster, felt, leather, wood, aluminium and other metal jackets, attempts to secure fixation or limitation of motion in the vertebrte. This is accomplished much in the same manner as in the treatment of fractures by the application of an encircling splint. The support given to the ribs b}r the outside casing is also a factor in se- curing fixation. In young children with small pelves this method is very helpful, since a steel appliance readily slips down on the hips. In the application of a plaster jacket in painful cases it should not be forgotten that the most comfortable position for the patient is lying upon the abdomen in a narrow, plain muslin hammock, the muslin itself to be included in the turns of the plaster bandage as it is applied. 1 Bradford and Lovett, Orthopaedic Surgery, 1890, p. 70. 2 Mitchell, Trans. Phila. College of Physicians, 1889, vol. xii., p. 82.