ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 543 ture of the skin upon the opposite side or enlargement of the external wound. In old contractions, and in secondary operations, a second section may he demanded, the latter being made at the insertion of the tendon into the calcaneum. If the foot is fixed firmly in a gypsum dressing after the operation, and the proper position of the joint is maintained, there will be no risk of a deficiency of tissue or of a superabundance. In some cases, three inches may safely be inserted in this tendon without risk. The amount of material which nature will pour out for the re- pair depends upon the primary position of the ends of the tendon. If the foot is dressed in the original position, and the two ends are but slightly separated, say one-quarter of an inch, the amount of material poured out will be equal only to the amount needed for repair of this interval; should the foot be subsequently extended so that the gap is increased to one inch, this exudate will be elongated to four times its capacity, and the result will be a weak tendon with only one-fourth its necessary structure. After tenotomy, therefore, the foot should always be nlaced in the fully corrected position, fixed with plaster-of- Paris or other splint, and kept at absolute rest for two weeks, after which the patient can walk about on the cast for one or two weeks more. Proper apparatus should then be applied. The tendon is sometimes divided by open incision, the exact amount of lengthening being secured by longitudinal splitting and flaps cut from opposite sides, the flaps being then sutured with catgut. This procedure gives no greater accuracy than does the subcutaneous method when a fixed position is maintained, and even with asepsis is not as free from danger. The statement of Mr. Fisher, that section of the tendo Achillis is always to be avoided in spasmodic equinus, does not at all agree with American practice, since it has been found that great benefit has been obtained from the improved mechanical position of the foot after tenot- omy. Moreover, the greatly increased powers of locomotion secured by the operation add markedly to the functional activity of all the muscles, and secondarily to the mental gain of the individual. Even when recontractions occur in severe spastic cases, a second section will usually result in permanent benefit. The slight degree of equinus in which the foot can only be brought to a right angle, especially when there is an associated condition of cavus, is often accompanied by much inconvenience and pain. Tender callosities make locomotion an act of great discomfort, and the gait is laborious. Section of the tendo Achillis gives great relief. In the so-called “non-deforming club-foot” a very considerable amount of deformity really exists, and tenotomy is often serviceable. Anatomical Changes in Congenital Varus.—The astragalus is the bone most distorted by muscular action, by pressure, or by weight- bearing. The tarsus is not only misshapen at birth, but even the slight pressure of clothing upon the infant foot during the first few months of life may cause such further malformation that difficulty will be experienced in any attempt to replace the foot in its normal position. As soon as the patient begins to walk the deformity will rapidly increase.