INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, ETC. 1 Transactions, vol. iii. '48 body to a great extent destroyed, it may become necessary to remove it and treat the inflammatory condition in the alveolus by antiseptic methods. In some cases, when the condition of the roots permits, an artificial tooth may be attached by pins and hands. Necrosis of the Jaws.—Of the various forms of necrosis of the jaws, that produced b}r the specific effect of phosphorus is of special interest. The disease exists to a great degree among the operatives in match factories in certain portions of the United States, notwithstand- ing the successful results achieved abroad in its prevention. In a paper read before the American Surgical Association in 1885 1 I announced as my belief, founded on observations made in a number of cases under my care, that the necrotic action was not caused, as had been stated, by the fumes of phosphorus attacking the periosteum through diseased teeth, or through the cavities after extraction of teeth, but that the periosteum of those who had long been exposed to the fumes of the poison was so altered as to make it very susceptible to irritation, and that the irritation accompanying a diseased tooth, or that asso- ciated with the efforts at extraction of diseased teeth, was the factor in the production of inflammation in the already diseased membrane. Closure of the Jaws.—Permanent closure of the jaws may be due to unilateral or bilateral cicatricial formations in the buccal spaces, or to anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary articulation on one or both sides. For the former condition, I have devised a method of operation which in a number of cases of bilateral involvement has afforded com- plete relief, and has permitted permanent opening of the mouth to the extent of an inch and three-quarters between the teeth. Having failed by the methods in use, I was led to adopt one which consists in the passage of a double aseptic silk ligature, by means of a handled, slightly curved needle, between the integument of the cheek and the surface of the cicatricial mass, entering the point of the needle at the corner of the mouth and bringing it out at a point opposite the last molar tooth. The ligature being deposited, is loosely tied and allowed to remain in situ from two to three weeks, or until the surgeon is satis- fied that a mucous lining membrane has formed in the canal in which it lies. In order to form this canal the ligature should be drawn back- ward and forward in its track from time to time. When the lin- ing membrane is formed the cicatricial mass may be divided with the knife, or may be gradually cut through by the ligature, which should then be tied firmly. Subsequent to the division of the mass, the mouth is opened to its fullest extent daily by the use of a mouth gag. In a few weeks this may be dispensed with, and the unaided efforts of the patient in opening the mouth may be depended upon to secure perma- nent relief. It is very desirable in passing the needle that it should be carried closely in contact with the inner surface of the skin, so as not to pass through any portion of the cicatricial mass. In the case of a patient who had suffered from closure of the jaws for a period of twenty-seven years, and who had been the subject of an unsuccessful operation by other methods, I succeeded in affording complete relief by this plan, the mouth being opened to the extent of one and a half