839 CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST. being removed entire, and the axillary and supra-clavicular glands being extirpated. This series of cases is of distinct value as showing the possibility of thoroughly removing cancer as a local disease. In 62 cases (1877-87) at the Massachusetts General Hospital, the average period before recurrence was 14.2 months. Paget's practice (Barker’s statistics) shows 14 months for scirrhous and 7 for medul- lary cancer. Sibley (Middlesex Hospital statistics) gives 53 months when the growth is removed, 32 when left to itself. Barker—scirrhus let alone, 43 months; operated upon once, 55 months. Medullary cancer —let alone, 20 months; operated upon, 44 months. Stiles has shown that in most of the specimens examined by him the surgeon’s knife had not removed the entire organ:— “Recurrence of the disease after operation is due to the non-removal of small and often microscopic foci of cancer, more or less remote form the main tumor and depending for their origin upon the arrest and growth of cancerous emboli disseminating more or less directly from the primary tumor along the lymphatics. The importance of removing all the retro-mammary tissue, pectoral and axillary fascia, axillary fat and glands, along with the breast in all cases of carcinoma, cannot be too strongly insisted upon or too often repeated. The anastomosis and intersection of the lymphatics are so free that it is impossible to say toward which set of glands the lymph from any given point in the breast will be con- veyed. I have seen cancerous lymphatic emboli at the axillary border of the mamma when the tumor was situated in the inner hemisphere, and vice versa. There no is doubt also that the lymphatics of the two breasts communicate to a certain extent through a median anastomosis of both the superficial and retro- mammary lymphatics. “In carcinomatous breasts the lymphatics may frequently be seen injected, as it were, with cancer cells, so that by a careful study-—-more especially of the spread of the cancer in the different tissues in and around the breast-—-one can gain a more satisfactory idea of their structure and arrangement than is to be afforded by chance and unsatisfactory artificial puncture injections. “The cancer cells invade first the lymph-spaces of the tissue, and, since they probably possess no independent or amoeboid movement, their entrance into the lymphatic vessels is more or less accidental. I have repeatedly seen lymphatic vessels containing cancer cells in all the situations in which Langhans has artificially injected them. “ The lymphatics when caucerous are generally filled and distended with cancer cells, which may or may not have invaded their walls and involved the surround- ing tissue. Occasionally one may observe a lymphatic of large calibre which is patent, containing only a few cancer cells which appear to have been floating along with the lymph stream. In such a condition the endothelial lining of the lymphatic is very distinct and quite normal. I have never seen any appearances which indicate that the endothelium of cancerous lymphatics in any way partici- pates in the cancerous process. “ The examination of a large number of carcinomatous breasts has afforded a demonstration of lymphatics containing cancerous emboli in one or more of the following situations, viz., in the connective-tissue processes radiating from the tumor into the surrounding breast tissue or circum-mammary fat; in the breast tissue, remote from as well as close to the tumor; in the connective-tissue septa, separating the lobules of the circum-mammary fat; in the so-called ‘ligaments of Cooper,’ where they often lead to small disseminated cancerous nodules in the corium ; in the retro-mammary tissue and pectoral fascia. In the last-named situation they are large, and generally accompany the blood-vessels which pass to and from the deep surface of the mamma.”