ABSCESSES AND ULCERS. 166 of a fibro-cellular character, while others show by their structure that they are true epitheliomata. They are often associated' with a carious condition of the bone in their immediate vicinity. I have seen a num- ber of cases which occurred in partially cicatrized gunshot wounds, often of many years’ standing, and in one case at least twenty years had elapsed before the patient came under my observation. The ulcer is usually covered by granulations having a papillary appearance, like condylomata, which often protrude above the surface of the surround- ing tissues. A typical case of warty ulcer, resulting from a gunshot wound received in the late war, is shown in Fig. 1593. This form of ulcer may cause little discomfort for a long time, but it gradually increases in size, the granulations becoming more exuberant and the patient ultimately experiencing intense pain at the seat of disease. The discharge from the ulcer is sometimes profuse and very offensive. Treatment.—The treatment of this form of ulcer consists in free ex- cision of the diseased structure, if this can be accomplished, with the removal of any carious bone that is associated with it; but in many cases, when situated upon the limbs, it is necessary to resort to ampu tation in order to completely remove the disease. There seems to be little tendency to recurrence if the morbid structures are freely removed by excision or amputation. I have in mind one patient, whose limb was amputated for this variety of ulcer, following an old gunshot wound, who ten years after the amputation of the limb had no evi- dence of any return of the disease. Indolent or Callous Ulcers.—These ulcers are generally situated upon the lower part of the leg, and are apt to affect persons who have passed the middle period of life. The surface, of the ulcer is concave, and its edges are raised and indurated, the granulations being of a dull red color and covered by small grayish sloughs, while the secretion from them is thin and offensive. Treatment.—If it is possible, the patient should be confined to bed, as repair is much more rapid when the part upon which the ulcer is situated is at absolute rest; but as this form of ulcer is generally met with in persons of the laboring class, the patients have to go about at- tending to their ordinary vocations, and under these conditions, though the time of healing is longer, the final result is no less satisfactory. The skin surrounding the ulcer should be washed with soap and water, and hairs, if present, should be removed by shaving. The sur- face of the ulcer should next be irrigated or sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen, and. when effervescence has ceased, with a 1-2000 bichloride solution. A pad composed of several layers of lint wet in 1-60 carbolic- acid lotion should next be laid over the surface and covered by a slitet of rubber tissue, and over this should be placed a pad of absorbent cotton and the turns of a roller bandage. This dressing should be changed every day for two or three days, and the surface of the ulcer on each occasion should be sprayed with the peroxide of hydrogen and irrigated with the 1-2000 bichloride solution. At the end of this time it will usually be found that the edges of the ulcer are much less in- durated, and that the granulations present a much more healthy ap- pearance. The dressing now employed should consist in strips of pro- tective, which have been dipped in a 1-2000 bichloride solution, slightly