978 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Some surgeons, like Dr. Wyeth,1 instead of splitting the scrotum in order to bring the urethra down and out at the perineum, have perforated it and brought the urethra out through the hole thus formed. Diseases of the Testicle and Tunica Vaginalis. Hydrocele.—Sometimes instead of there being only a single cavity filled with fluid there may be several, constituting what might be called a multilocular hydrocele. Kraske2 gives two such cases. One occurred in a man aged twenty-four years. There were two distinct sacs sepa- rated by a septum, which was excised, and the hydrocele thus cured. The other case occurred in a man aged fifty-nine years. There were a large number of cysts, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a hen’s egg. They contained fluid such as is usually found in hydroceles. There was also fluid in the tunica vaginalis. The same condition existed on the opposite side, but the cysts were smaller. After their removal, the testicle and cord were found to be so isolated as to threaten gan- grene of the organ, so that this was excised. Treatment.—It being recognized that some of the bad effects occur- ring after tapping a hydrocele have been due to the introduction of septic matter, far greater attention is now paid than formerly to guard against such an occurrence. The scrotum is to be shaved at the site of puncture and carefully cleansed. The trocar and canula should be sterilized by boiling, and after the completion of the operation the puncture should be closed with iodoform or benzoated collodion (equal parts of fluid extract of benzoin and collodion). Mishaps in tap- ping usually arise and are favored by employing a badly fitting trocar and canula, by operating before the sac is properly distended, or by failure to previously determine the location of the testicle. The canula should fit the trocar closely, and no attempt should be made to tap with a defective instrument. The increased pain so caused should alone forbid it. A dry tap is usually caused by the trocar and canula both penetrating the skin, but only the former entering the tunica vagi- nalis, the canula pushing the tunic in front of it so that when the trocar is withdrawn the canula remains simply in the cellular tissue and no fluid comes away. This accident is to be provided against not only by using a close-fitting instrument, but also by keeping the sac tense with one hand while the trocar is given a sharp, quick thrust with the other. By operating before the sac is distended it may be im- possible to render it sufficiently tense to make a proper puncture, and the testicle is then liable to be wounded. If it does happen to get injured, the patient should be cautioned to remain quiet in bed, with the organ suspended until the outcome is evident. Mr. Teevan was accustomed to use quite short trocars of small diameter. These by a quick stab were driven in their full length. This plan of procedure is usually less pain- ful than the operation with a longer trocar, but on account of its being slightly less certain in its results has not been generally adopted. The position of the testicle is usually at the lower, inner, and back part of the swelling, and, on careful palpation, the increased resistance and the sensations of the patient will usually enable the surgeon to deter- 1 Annals of Surgery, vol. xx., p. 179. 5 Centralblatt fur Chirurg., 1881, No. 47, S. 737.