481 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. old dislocations of the shoulder. Rupture of the axillary artery is a danger not to be overlooked in efforts at reduction by manipulation. Forty-four cases of this accident, with a large percentage of fatal end- ings, had been reported up to 1SS5.1 In the treatment of this accident ligature of the subclavian has given the best result:— In 7 cases with double axillary ligature..'. all died. “ 14 “ “ subclavian “ 9 “ “ 19 “ without operation 13 “ “ 4 “ with amputation at shoulder 3 “ Kdrte, of Berlin, claims that in many cases the rupture of the artery occurred at the time of dislocation, the bleeding being prevented by pressure of the head of the bone until relieved by reduction, but this view does not seem to be supported by the history of most of the cases. The application of pressure should always be tried, and will cure a small portion of these cases. If it fail and the resulting traumatic aneurism be large, either ligature of the subclavian or amputation will give bet- ter results than cutting down and placing a double ligature on the axillary. Arthrotomy is preferable to excision as giving a more useful limb and being an operation of less severity. Sir Joseph Lister makes an incision from the coracoid process a little outward and downward. All the muscles are detached from the tuberosity of the humerus by a chisel or periosteotome, and reduction is then usually easy. If not, then the head of the humerus is turned out of the wound and the rotators de- tached, which allows the bone to go into place. Four cases treated by this method were all successful. Robson, McLaren, Stimson, and Mor- ton report numerous successful cases of arthrotomy of the shoulder to assist reduction. The last writer makes an incision through the deltoid instead of that employed by Lister. Elbow.—After dislocations of the elbow extensive deposits of bone sometimes occur behind the external condyle, causing limitation of mo- tion, as in fracture. Several cases have recently been reported of this result without fracture having been present. The pathology of the ob- scure injury known as subluxation of the head of the radius has been cleared up by a careful analysis of 100 cases made by Van Arsdale. In many of these cases there is really a fracture of the neck of the bone. The only case on record of inward dislocation of the ulna at its upper end is reported by Loison. The bone remained luxated, and there was some limitation of motion. Arthrotomy for old dislocation is to be recommended in this as in other joints. Ssokolow reports four successful cases and advises against excision. Ollier reports a case of successful arthrotomy after 54 days. He declares that “ the section of all structures holding the joint in ab- normal relation is preferable to excision.” The incision should be in the posterior line. The chisel may be used to separate the attachment of the triceps. After the “toilet” of the joint this may be replaced by nailing or wiring. In some cases a tem- porary suture of the joint has been used to prevent reluxation. Maydl has reported six cases, and Nicoladoni nine cases of this operation, all successful. 1 Annals of Surgery, November, 1885. VOL. VII.—31