INFLAMMATION. 12 luscs). Inflammatory reaction may be induced, and abundant leucocyte accumulation accompanied by giant-cell formation take place, without any question of diapedesis, for the simple reason that the vascular system is not completely closed, and is in communication with the body cavity. There are recorded a number of observations of inflammatory infec- tions in some of the lowest vertebrates and their embryos, and it is shown that it is possible for these to be excited without the interference of the vascular system. Metchnikoff recapitulates the whole series of phe- nomena observed, and their details, in the first seven lectures, pointing out that in the vegetable kingdom, although there may be lesions such as primary necrosis and regeneration, yet there is no inflammation. This process appears only in the animal kingdom, commencing in those organisms that are endowed with a mesoderm. There is given a de- tailed description of the different varieties of leucocytes, of which there are four principal kinds: first, the small lymphatic corpuscles (lympho- cytes) formed by the lymphatic glands, containing one nucleus sur- rounded by a thin layer of protoplasm; second, mononuclear leucocytes, having a single oval or rounded nucleus, and bearing a slight re- semblance to certain fixed elements of the connective tissue; third, Ehrlich’s eosinophilic corpuscles, which contain often lobulated and variously shaped nuclei, and which stain best with acid aniline colors; and fourth, multinucleated corpuscles, which, in reality possessing only a single nucleus, often have the appearance of a clover leaf or a daisy, the different lobes being united by thin filaments. The first two varie- ties of leucocyte merge the one into the other, and the fourth variety is often denominated a “leucocyte neutrophils,” because it is only possible to stain both the nucleus and the protoplasm by a mixture of acid and basic aniline colors. These corpuscles develop in the lymphatic glands, the spleen, the bone marrow, and the blood, the last named being the part in which the ordinary polynuclear corpuscles chiefly originate. All the varieties are amoeboid, but the lymphocytes and the eosinophilic bodies have no power of phagocytosis, a property that especially charac- terizes the mononuclear and polynuclear or neutrophilic bodies. Certain organisms, such as the streptococcus of erysipelas and the gonococcus, are never taken up by mononuclear corpuscles, while they are easily absorbed by the polynuclear. On the other hand, the bacillus of leprosy is never absorbed by the polynuclear corpuscles, while it is readily taken up by the mononuclear, and this difference in the reaction of the two classes of leucocytes is ascribed to “ chemiotaxis. ” There are next brought forward a large number of observations illus- trating the chemiotactic and digestive properties of leucocytes, and it is admitted that, while it is a fact that leucocytes can digest bacteria, the agent by which this is accomplished, whether a digestive diastase or something else, is not yet known, and it is also affirmed that because in the higher animals the peptic and tryptic ferments do not destroy bacteria, there is no reason for affirming that there are not in them other ferments possessed of a bactericidal action. As regards the mul- tiplication of leucocytes, Metchnikoff shows that while polynuclear corpuscles most often divide directly, they are also capable of reproduc- tion by nuclear division (karyokinesis), a fact that has been shown by Flemming in the leucocytes of the salamander, and by Spronck in the leucocytes of the blood of the rabbit.