VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. 407 the broken bones were united at right angles, new bone being in each case deposited in the angle. Hofmokl,1 apropos of a case of united intra-uterine fracture of the thigh observed by him, says that among 117,918 births recorded in fourteen years at the Maternity and Found- ling Hospital in Vienna there was not one positively established case of such injury. Sophus Meyer2 gives two instances: in one the left femur had been broken about the middle, and the right one was bent, probably from a united fracture; in the other both femora were broken, the right at about the line of the lower epiphysis, the left somewhat higher up; union took place well. In the former case there was suspicion of rachi- tis, and the mother three weeks before her confinement had struck her abdomen against the corner of a table. Jones3 reports a case of intra-uterine fracture of the femur, seen by him when the child was three weeks old; the mother had fallen down- stairs when six months pregnant. The left thigh measured inches in length, the right 4 inches; there was also % inch shortening below the knee. He says that he has seen two other instances, one occurring in the clavicle, the other in the humerus; in neither of these was there any history of injury from without. An interesting case of multiple intra-uterine fractures has been re- corded by Linck,4 and references are given to eleven other instances. Of fractures produced during birth, Meyer found in the records of twenty years at the Copenhagen Maternity 13 cases, 5 of the clavicle and 8 of the humerus. He thinks this a small proportion of the actual number, since fractures are apt to be overlooked in dead-born children, and only 2 of these 13 were born dead. In 4 instances (3 of the clavicle and 1 of the humerus) the labors were natural; in the other 9 version was performed. Meyer quotes with disapproval Wehn's suggestion that the bones give way under strong uterine contractions. He says that union is usually perfect in three weeks; callus forms in excess in a few days, but is absorbed, and disappears entirely in a period of some months. Farnsworth 5 reports a case of fracture of both thighs in delivery of a female child; union was firm on the seventh day, but with lateral curvature requiring correction by splints. Five months afterward there was no trace of the injury. In a case reported by Wyeth6 a fracture of the femur at the tro- chanter, produced by two fingers of the accoucheur in delivering the child, was treated in flexion, with a plaster-of-Paris bandage, and was perfectly united in three weeks, without deformity. Varieties of Fracture. According to Ivroell,7 a good many so-called oblique fractures are in reality spiral; and he thinks that these, which have been generally de- 1 Archiv fur Kinderheilkunde, Bd. iii. 2 Schmidt’s Jahrb., 1884, No. 1, from IIosp. Tidende, 1883. 3 Liverpool Med.-Chirurgical Journal, July, 1892. 4 Archiv fur Gvnakologie, Berlin, 1887. 5 Med. and Surg. Reporter, Sept. 26, 1891. 6 New York Med. Journal, July 4. 1891. ’ Deutsche Zeitschrift fi'ir Chirurgie, 24 Mai, 1888.