460 DISEASES OF BONES. of a small quantity of pus upon gelatine gave no results. When larger quantities, however, were used, colonies of staphylococci were developed. Garre also describes a chronic sclerosing form of osteomyelitis in which the acute symptoms are typical, and in which the disease pro- ceeds to the stage of swelling, pain, and enlargement of the bones, even with plain infiltration of the soft parts; but in which, instead of the appearance of the expected abscess, the conditions ameliorate, and the patient proceeds to recovery, or at least, to very great improvement. Garre describes three cases of late recurrence (recidive) of osteomyelitis. Tuberculosis of the Bones. The history of tuberculosis of the bones is an exceedingly interesting one, for unmistakable allusions to what is now known by this name are to be found in the writings of those shrewd observers, the most ancient medical writers. For a summary of this history, reference may be made to the classical work of Arloing;1 but no writer of the present time can well avoid mention of the important contributions to our knowledge of tuberculosis of the bones made by Charles Nelaton, Yillemin, Chauveau, Ollier, Konig, Schuller, Krause, Koch, Arloing, and Gangolphe. Various theories in regard to the cause of tuberculosis of the bones, indicated by a variety of names applied to its manifesta- tions, are to be found scattered through the literature of the subject, but the latest conception of the disease dates from the year 1882, when Koch published his investigations in regard to the bacillus tuberculosis, which is now regarded by almost all pathologists as the cause of tuber- culosis wherever it is found. Nevertheless, using the same method of reasoning employed to identify the bacillus of Koch, there can be no doubt that other micro-organisms may give rise to a process having all the clinical features of tuberculosis, and absolutely indistinguishable from it in any other way than by the process of isolating the micro-organism present in the lesions. This is not the place to discuss this matter, which is fully and ably treated of in the admira- ble work of Arloing, who describes four varieties of tuberculosis produced by dif- ferent micro-organisms. The first vari- ety is that which is recognized as due to the bacillus of Koch. The second is what he calls tuberculose zoogloeique, or bacillaire, or strepto-bacillaire. The third is the tuberculose bacillaire of Courmont. The fourth is the tubercu- lose bacillaire of Preisz and Guinard. The evidence upon which Arloing bases his opinions in regard to this subject is given by him in full, and need only be referred to as like that upon which the belief in other forms of parasitic disease rests. A represen- 1 Let^ons sur la tuberculose. Paris, 1892. Pig. 1617. Culture of Streptobacillus tuberculosis of Dor. (Arloing.)