(867) HERNIA. BY JOHN A. WYETH, M.D., OF NEW YORK. A hernia, literally defined, is a tumor formed by the escape of the whole or a portion of any viscus from its normal cavity. By common consent, the term is now almost wholly restricted to protrusions of in- testine or omentum (or both), from the cavity of the abdomen or pel- vis, and these protrusions may occur through an opening which is con- genital or acquired. Complete inguinal hernia following the descent of a testicle, or ventral hernia due to failure of perfect union in the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, are instances of the former; while a protrusion of the intestine after a wound of the abdominal wall is an example of hernia through an acquired opening. The hernia may take place into an adjoining cavity, as the thorax (dia- phragmatic), or may protrude beneath the skin (femoral, umbilical, ventral, etc.). Classification of Hernle. Herniae are classified according to their place of escape: inguinal, femoral, umbilical, diaphragmatic, gluteal, obturator, lumbar, vagi- nal, pudendal, and perineal. The term ventral is applied to all lierniae occurring at points on the abdominal wall other than those indi- cated in the classification just given. Of hernise in general, the in- guinal variety forms about 80 per cent, of all cases; femoral, 10; um- bilical, 5; the remaining varieties, 5. Of every five patients affected with hernia four are males. Inguinal hernia in males occurs more often in the first ten years of life than in any subsequent decade, the period from the twentieth to the fortieth year being next in order of frequency. According to Kingdon, femoral hernia in males of all ages is met with in four of every hundred cases; in the first decade in one of every three hundred; in the second two per cent. ; in the third and fourth together, four and a half per cent.; in the fifth and sixth, six per cent.; and after this, eight per cent. In females inguinal and femoral herniae are met with in about equal proportions. The latter variety is rarely met with before puberty, but occurs chiefly during the child-bearing period (Thomas Bryant).