721 TUMORS OF THE NOSE. duced into one nasal chamber. The “massage” consists of a quick, uniform, rubbing motion, the cotton cylinder being pressed somewhat firmly against the mucous membrane, and the entire surface subjected in turn to the friction. The sittings may occupy from two to six min- utes, the patient being given brief intervals of rest between; great care is requisite, and the occurrence of hemorrhage is a very unfortunate ac- cident, the dense clots greatly aggravating the nasal crusting. Fara- dism is of much value in all cases of rhinitis cirrhotica. The positive pole is applied directly to the membrane by means of the long nasal electrode, and the negative is placed over the antrum or is held in the hand of the patient. A moderate current should be employed, and the sittings should occupy from six to ten minutes, two or three times a week. Tumors of the Nose. This subject has been lately largely cleared of the haze of unscien- tific uncertainty which for years has clouded it. I have adopted the following classification after somewhat extensive microscopical study of the subject.1 Leaving aside the true malignant growths, and cer- tain mixed tumors, both of which occur in the nose as in other mucous membranes, four types of local new growth are found in the nasal chambers: (1) Angeiomata (telangiectatic degeneration). (2) Adeno- mata (glandular hyperplasia). (3) Myxomata (mucous degeneration). (4) Papillomata (dendritic epithelial tumors). Adenomas and myxo- mas, the latter being often but a degenerative stage of the former, are the ordinary “mucous” or “gelatinoid polypi” so common in the nasal cavities. The minute structure of nasal pseudo-adenomata resembles in all details that of the true neoplasm, viz., a fibrous-tissue matrix con- taining numerous tubular glands lined by epithelium. The connective tissue is exceedingly vascular, and extensive inflammatory small-cell infiltration is always present. Myxomata contain very little connec- tive tissue, being composed of a few stellate cells holding in their meshes structureless mucoid tissue. Papillomata of small size are very common in the posterior nasal region, resulting, like this form of neoplasm generally, from prolonged irritation of the epithelial layer.2 Vascular degeneration of turbinated tissue—pseudo-angeioma—is occasionally found; the boggy, very vas- cular masses are usually situated at the anterior end of the middle and lower turbinated bodies. In the surgical removal of these growths, comparatively little has been added to our previous knowledge. Electrolysis is frequently used, and is said to be effective even in the case of cartilaginous outgrowths;3 the bipolar method has been advocated by the latest investigators. The perfection of the galvano-cauterv has made the radical treatment of nasal polpyi much more certain. The point of attachment should be thoroughly seared in most cases; polypi which come from beneath the middle turbinated body are followed up to the hiatus semilunaris by Casselberry, b}7 insinuating a fine electrode slightly curved on the flat;4 1 University Med. Magazine, Jan., 1892. 2 Amer. Jour. Med. Sciences, Feb., 1889. 3 Bergoine et Moure, Arcli. de Cliirurgie de Bordeaux, Nos. 3 et 4, 1892. 4 New York Med. Jour., No. 20, 1891. VOL. VII.—46