1029 PERINEOTOMY. nal flap is closed by the usual external stitches of silk, and the perineum hy silver wire, with, possibly, silk for any gaping points. This plan answers when the fistula is small and deeply placed, as, also, in such fistulse as have an orifice at the vaginal introitus, provided there ex- ists a strong perineum with an intact sphincter. On the other hand, the fistula may be large and more deeply situ- ated, with a thin perineal bridge and a relaxed gaping anus, the sphinc- ter of jwlnch has lost its function. It is here that simple division of the remaining bridge of perineal tissue will change the deformity into that of complete perineal laceration with involvement of the bowel. Then the typical operation is followed: The recto-vaginal septum is trans- versely divided and the two anterior lateral extensions of the incision made to form the vaginal flap, this being at once closed by sutures of silk. Then, if the rectal laceration is not too extensive, it will be simply necessary to unite the perineum by deeply placed silver-wire sutures, with, perhaps, a few external rectal stitches of silk. When the rectum is more deeply torn, then, before twisting the peri- neal wire sutures, it will be necessary to unite the freshened crura of the rectal wound, just as in the operation for complete laceration, bv buried Lauenstein sutures of silk. The further treatment differs in no wise from that of the latter procedure. Perineotomy. A partial perineotomy is done in Tait’s and in several other operations for restoration of the perineum, but a complete perineotomy is splitting the entire recto-vaginal wall so that Douglas’s cul-de-sac is opened. This operation was first proposed by Dr. Otto Zuckerkandl, of Vienna, in 1889, and has been used in a few cases of extir- pation of the uterus. His method was this:1 The perineum was incised in the form of a trape- zium, the base turned toward the sacrum; the transverse branch was seven centimetres in length, and three centimetres in front of the anus, while the oblique branches extended to the ischial tuberosities; then the rectal was dis- sected from the vaginal flap until the peritoneal cavity was reached and opened. The accompanying illustration shows the perineal incis- ions. (Fig. 178-1.) Sanger in 1890 employed lateral perineotomy for the removal of a dermoid cyst of the pelvic connective tissue. He made an incision which began at the posterior third of the labium majus, extended to two centimetres behind the anus, and in the middle of the space be- tween this opening and the ischial tuberosity. By a typographical error this method, attributed to Hegar and San- ger, is called vertical perineotomy by Bonnet and Petit.2 (Fig. 1785.) Willems, whose monograph may well be consulted by any one who wishes not only the history of the operation, but the method of perform- 1 See monograph, “De la Perineotomie et de ses Applications, ” by Dr. Ch. Williams, as- sistant at the University of Gaud, 1892. 2 Pratique de Gynecologie. Paris, 1894. Fig. 1784. Diagram of Zuckerkandl’s Op- eration of Perineotomy.