883 SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. are threaded. Begin as follows: Insert one Czerny suture just at the mesenteric or attached border of the intestine and tie this, the knot of course coming within the lumen of the gut. The needle should pass from within through the mucous layer at a distance of about one- eighth of an inch from the free border (Fig. 1733), out at the junction of the mucous and muscular layers, and, being carried across to the opposite end it should be made to enter between the muscular and mucous layers and to emerge through the mucous layer one-eighth of an inch from its cut edge. A Lembert suture should be next inserted just at the edge of the mesenteric attachment as follows: The needle is made to enter the peritoneal coat one-eightli of an inch from the edge, and passing between the serous and mucous coats is again brought through the peritoneal layer about one-twenty-fifth of an inch from the edge (Fig. 1733). At a point exactly opposite, the same stitch is passed through the peritoneal layer of that side, the same distance and in the same way, and this thread is tied. In knotting all of these sutures it is a wise precaution to use the double or friction knot for the first tying, for by so doing there is no danger of the suture slipping and the parts separating as the second loop is being made. A second Lem- bert suture should now be inserted on the other side of the mesenteric attachment, and care must be taken to see that the ends of the cylin- der at the mesenteric attachment are in perfect coaptation. It is my practice to insert one or two additional silk sutures into the mesentery on the outer and inner side surfaces, in order to be sure that perfect co- aptation is secured. The sutures are now inserted for the remainder of the opposing sur- faces. The mucous or Czerny sutures should be from one-fourtli to three-eighths of an inch apart; the Lembert sutures about one-sixteenth of an inch apart. The relative positions of these sutures are shown in Fig. 1735. It is evident that while the Czerny suture is tied leaving the knot within the cavity of the intestine for the first part of the operation, the last few threads must be tied leaving the knot embedded between the mucous and muscular layers of the wall. In applying the sutures, the plan is, first a Czerny, then a Lembert nearly over this, then two or three other Lembert sutures, and then a mucous or Czerny suture, and so on. It is necessary to in- sert the Czerny suture before the superficial sutures, should be cut off close to the knot. Properly applied, there can be no leakage in this coaptation of the bowel, and after a thorough cleansing and drying with sterilized gauze or sterilized iodoformized tufts, the loop of intestine may be dropped back into the bowel after the con- stricting tapes are removed. Closure of the wound in the abdomen should he effected as advised after the operation for the radical cure of hernia. In certain cases of intestinal resection, even after the sutures are all applied, it may not always be a safe procedure to drop the loop of intes- tine back into the peritoneal cavity and close the abdominal wound at once. In one case upon which I operated for the closure of a fsecal fistula in the ileum, in which about two inches of the intestine had to Fig. 1735. All of the threads