484 INJURIES OF JOINTS. to spread out in the form of a cone, and to act as if the bone had act- ually exploded. The bullet and the fragments rush out of the limb in a cluster, tearing the tissues wide open, as in Fig. 1642, making fright- ful wounds, with everted edges. The fragments of bone and bits of flesh are often driven 20 or 30 yards beyond the patient. This pseudo-explosive action, however, is not peculiar to the new rifle, as some writers seem to suppose. It was often seen in the War of the Rebellion, when the old Minie bullets struck the shaft of the femur or of the tibia. The tearing, semi-ex- plosive action caused great surgical shock, which was frequently fatal. When the new bullets strike joints at a medium distance from the gun, they often make clean perforations, which admit of being searched and disinfected, and they will allow of saving in many cases a useful articulation, when the old bullets would have shattered the joint, permitting nothing short of am- putation or excision. At long distances the new projectiles produce wounds much like those of the old kind when moving at corresponding velocities. Another difference between the new wounds and the old is due to the struc- ture of the bullet. The simple bullets of soft lead, whether round or conical, used to spread out, on striking the bone, into very singular forms, and in multi- tudes of cases were cut to pieces by the bony edges, producing fragments the smaller of which lodged in the injured parts, while the larger often flew on as separate projectiles. The remarkable tendency of soft lead bullets to be torn to pieces on striking a bone developed a singular theory as to its cause. It was seriously argued by some authors that on striking a hone the sudden arrest of velocity in the bullet caused its motion to be converted into heat, suddenly melt- ing the lead, and causing it to be dashed about in the tissues as a spray of liquid metal. To one intimately acquainted with the phenomena in question this theory is absurd. After carefully studying a great number of these fragments of lead, I assert without fear of contradiction that they are always chips and raspings, showing clearly the striae where the rough bone has scratched the surfaces. Neither in battle nor in my numerous cadaver experiments have I ever found a single piece of lead, large or small, showing any of the forms peculiar to the molten condition; nor any cauterized surfaces of tissue such as molten lead would produce. Mr. Victor Wiodett, a distinguished engineer, has shown by careful cal- Fig. 1642. Laceration of Soft Parts in Gun-shot Fracture , by Modern Bullet.