SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 781 the superior thyroid arteries and compression (with forceps) of the inferior; he then makes a bloodless evidement. Wolff, on the other hand, adopts no preliminary ligation whatever, relying upon “methodi- cal compression” for control of the hemorrhage. The indications for the different procedures will be briefly mentioned. Generally speaking, it may be said that, where it is possible, en ucleation is the best operation, as best avoiding injury to important organs of the neck and to whatever of sound thyroid tissue there may remain. Partied extirpation is indicated when there is diffuse hypertrophy of the gland, especially if there he left some sound tissue; also when there exist a very large number of small nodes. Enucleation is the operation to be chosen when the goitre is cystic, and in the case of large nodes in simple goitres. Evidement may he used for any nodular goitre when dispatch is of importance; also in “struma nodosa” when the nodes are soft and yielding. Resection may be employed when it is impossible to do one of the previous operations as planned, when the nature of the tumor is un- certain, or when in a case of diffuse hypertrophy there is no sound tissue to be left, and especially when it is desired to operate upon both sides without making the extirpation total. Ligation of the arteries is an operation which by itself is seldom called for. The principal indication for it would be the presence of a “struma vasculosa.” Since the introduction of more rapid and safer methods, large cystic goitres are now rarely treated by the older procedures of tapping, injection of medicinal fluids, the seton, incision, or drainage. For these goitres enucleation may be said to be the only proper operation. Ordinarily the cyst is surrounded by a very dense capsule, which de- prives its enucleation of technical difficulties. The hemorrhage, which is usually slight, comes from the divided overlying normal gland tissue. As in the removal of cysts from other parts, every effort should be made for its enucleation as an unbroken mass. When before the opera- tion injections of iodine, oft repeated, have caused adhesions to form about the sac, this may be impossible. Should rupture occur under these circumstances, the sac must be split in its length and carefully dissected away. Goitres once removed do not ordinarily recur. Nevertheless, after operations short of total extirpation, recurrence has been noticed in somewhat less than ten per cent, of cases, ejther on the side operated upon or in the opposite lobe. It is interesting to know, too, that operations on one lobe of a diseased thyroid have often been followed by diminution in size of the remaining half of the gland. Simple divi- sion of the isthmus, in two cases reported by Sydney Jones,1 were fol- lowed by atrophy and permanent cure. Mcdignant Goitre.—Carcinoma and sarcoma occasionally develop in the thyroid gland. As a rule, malignant disease is grafted in an already existing goitre, or invades the gland from sonie neighboring organ—the oesophagus or larynx. Primary carcinomata of the gland are very rare, occur chiefly late in life, and considerably oftener in men than in women. Primary carcinoma usually presents the cylindri- 1 Lancet, 1884, vol. ii., p. 367.