GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. BY E. M. MOORE, M.D., EMERITUS PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO, ETC. Gangrene. . The constitutional disturbance in gangrene is due to the absorption of toxines, which are the result of chemical changes produced by the action of microbes upon the tissues and fluids. When these are absent the dead tissue produces little or no effect upon the blood. It may be separated, or gradually absorbed and discharged through the emunc- tories, with no perceptible constitutional symptoms. The chemical construction of these toxines or ptomaines has thus far received slight elucidation, but something has been gained, and at this moment the field of inquiry is perhaps the most important in the range of chemical investigation. The surgeon recognizes the fact that life is often lost when only a small portion of tissue is invaded, and often saved when a whole limb as far as the knee is lost by gangrene. Indeed, it is now well under- stood that to no single microbe can the putrefactive changes be as- cribed. But the greater or less virulence of some well-known forms can' be distinctly asserted. Thus we find that the staphylococcus and strep- tococcus pyogenes are sufficient to produce gangrene, as shown by their exclusive presence in the early stages of furuncle and carbuncle. But the virulence of the toxines resulting from the action of the bacillus of Rosenbach is vastly greater, although the extent of destruction of tis- sues may be the same in both cases. The ptomaines extruded into the tissues beyond the microbic colonies are capable of absorption. Varieties of Gangrene.—The two broad varieties of gangrene, moist and dry, have an important clinical and bacteriological signifi- cance. The tissues in the dry variety are not invaded by microbes, and therefore become mummified, producing very slight if any consti- tutional disturbance; but in the moist form the tissues become the nidus for various microbes, such as those producing pus, as well as the bacillus of putrefaction of Rosenbach. The difference of prognosis in the two varieties has always been recognized by surgeons. Treatment of Gangrene.—But little can be added to what is already known. The discovery of the destructive microbes has added (HI)