SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. 875 the gluteal region to the same point below the left superior spinous process. Press the malleable lead closely to the integument in order to get an exact outline of the surface to which the truss is to be applied, and trace this directly upon a sheet of paper. The instrument- maker by using this tracing can model the spring to fit more comfort- ably, and afterwards can temper the metal to make the required pres- sure. When there exists a bilateral hernia a double truss should be worn. A fair temporary truss maybe made as follows: A piece of cloth, or a tuft of wool, cotton, or oakum, is rolled into a compress about half the size of the fist, is then covered with adhesive plaster (the adhesive surface being external), and is laid immediately over the in- guinal canal after the hernia has been reduced; while the patient is in the recumbent posture, a spica bandage is carried around the pelvis and thigh so that the compress is held firmly in position. The adhesive plaster which surrounds the compress adheres to the skin and to the spica bandage. When an inguinal hernia cannot he retained by a truss, operative interference is indicated. In cases where the hernia can be retained, and yet interferes with the comfort or usefulness of the individual, operation for radical cure is also advisable. In irreducible hernia which interferes with comfort or usefulness, or which is increasing in volume, or which exists in persons going beyond the reach of proper surgical aid, operation for radical cure should be undertaken. In aged persons, operation should be avoided unless strangulation occurs. By reason of the great advances due to careful asepsis and improved operative technique, together with the increased safety of anaesthesia as practised at this time, even conservative surgeons are leaning to the side of operative interference. That death is exceedingly rare after this operation when done in properly selected cases and by experienced operators, will be seen from a study of the statistics of Prof. Eduard Bassini, of Padua, who had one death in 251 cases, this being from pneumonia after the wound had healed without suppuration. Svenn- sen and Erdman record 200 operations with no death; Lucas-Cham- pionniere 266 cases with one death; Kocher 119 operations with one death (due to pulmonary embolism on the fifteenth day after operation, the wound being completely healed); Macewen 98 cases with one death, from scarlet fever; and Roswell Park 85 cases with no deaths (Daw- barn). In my own experience no death has resulted. Of the procedures for the radical cure of inguinal hernifi I would at this date (August, 1895) advise that of Bassini, with an occasional modification in the management of the sac. The operation is performed as follows:— Make an incision through the skin and fat down to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, from the spine of the pubis upward and outward about two inches internal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Upon a grooved director inserted beneath the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, through the external abdominal ring, and superficial to the hernial sac and structures of the cord, divide this aponeurosis about one inch beyond the internal ring. The upper flap of this aponeurosis is dissected toward the median line (preferably with the scissors) until the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles is brought well into view. The lower flap is then dissected from its underlying fascia until the shelving edge of Poupart’s ligament is exposed.