679 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. cumstances. Pannus is still treated by performing peritomy, but in those cases where there are thick pannus and rough, tough excres- cences on the conjunctiva, no remedy can accomplish more than jequirity. This may be employed in a three-per-cent, infusion, or as a powder sprinkled upon the pannus and lids. Two or three applications of the infusion are sufficient to produce the desired inflammation, which begins usually within twelve hours, and at the end of twenty-four is well under way. When the pannus is old. tough, and thick, the inflamma- tion should continue two or three days, and then be gradually checked by frequent cleansing with boric-acid solution. It is better to accomplish too little than to run the risk of destroying the cornea, for the process may be repeated as often as is necessary. The pannus has been seen to slough away in large pieces. Jequirity is contra-indicated in cases of ulcerated cornea, wflien there is much discharge, and in all acute cases. Phlyctenular Ophthalmia.—This form of inflammation of the conjunctiva and cornea, on account of the intimate connection between the parts, will be considered under the above heading. The appearance and symptoms are well known and need not be dwelt upon here. The phlyctenula is a collection of round cells situated beneath the epithelium in the conjunctiva, and between the epithelium and Bowman’s mem- brane in the cornea. When the cells pass through this membrane and penetrate the cornea a hazy spot is always left. The primary cause of phlyctenular inflammation is undoubtedly constitutional, but some writers contend that nasal complications are always present and that treatment of the nose cures the eye. The nasal affections are hyper- trophy of the turbinated bones, and polypi and other growths that are found upon the mucous membrane of the nose and naso-pliarynx. The nasal hypertrophies frequently cause obstruction of the duct, and it is quite likely that poisonous germs from the sac find their way along the canaliculi and finally infect the conjunctiva and cornea. The predis- posing constitutional diseases are syphilis and scrofula, and at times it may occur when the system is run down, as while teething, and con- junctival phlyctenulae are at times seen even in apparently healthy children, though doubtless due to some latent but slight disorder of nutrition. Refractive errors, and astigmatism especially, are said to be causes. Undoubtedly constitutional weakness and dyscrasim have much to do with the disease, and it is not unlikely that the same cause produces that of both eye and nose, and that the treatment of one organ is incomplete without that of the other, both being improved by constitutional remedies. Therefore it must be concluded that phlyc- tenular ophthalmia occurs most frequently in strumous and syphilitic children, in whom all mucous membranes are prone to inflammation and hypertrophy; that malarial, unsanitary, and bad hygienic sur- roundings are usually the direct causes of attacks; and that not only the membranes of the eye and nose are involved, but frequently that of the alimentary tract also. Treatment.—The patient’s surroundings when bad should be im- proved, change of climate is beneficial, good and nourishing food is essential, and out-of-door life is not to be restricted. The condition of the general health should receive careful investigation, and indigestion