490 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. already present. These cases are so common as to be every-day matters in large orthopaedic clinics. Again, simple acute synovitis in children often passes directly into a chronic tuberculous synovitis. This is to be particularly noted in the knee, when the progress of the affection can he watched. These cases begin in the common way, and show no signs by which they may be recognized in advance. Hence it seems merely a precaution of common wisdom to urge that all cases of acute synovitis in children should be regarded as suspicious until permanent recovery has taken place. Simple acute synovitis is not a common affection in young children, while joint tuberculosis is. Treatment.—The treatment of simple acute synovitis is for the most part unchanged. The use of cold, heat, and pressure, in connection with rest, is still the treatment of the best authorities. Rest is the es- sential, and such experiments as those of Phelps1 show how little is the danger of anchylosis from joint fixation. It has been shown plainly enough that fixation perse does not produce anchylosis in healthy joints. A question in the "treatment of simple synovitis which has assumed a semi-scientific aspect, is the immediate application of passive move- ment and massage. Such books as those of Mansell-Moullin2 bring the matter before the profession and entitle the treatment to consideration from a critical standpoint. A quotation will show the tendency of the book: uAs a rule, passive movement may he commenced from the second day with the certainty of preventing adhesions and without the least fear. . . . Supposing the case of a sprained ankle of moderate severity in a healthy person a few hours after the accident; the liga- ments are strained, perhaps even slightly torn; the synovial cavity is distended with fluid, etc. ...” In this case Moullin recommends massage. This will serve to show the extent to which the advocates of this theory would push it. They recognize no limitations as a rule, and an article may be found recommending even the immediate treatment of intra-articular fractures by massage and manipulation, and quoting successful cases3 treated in this way. With regard to the immediate treatment of synovitis by massage, it can only be said that it is not sanctioned by general surgical authority. That with a few exceptions those most used to the treatment of joint injuries advise immediate and complete rest, to be followed by massage when heat and active signs of inflammation have wholly or partly sub- sided. In slight sprains massage answers admirably, in severe sprains it is occasionally tried with signal success, but most surgeons will call to mind cases where the results have been most unfortunate. So that it may be said that, in simple acute synovitis, he who advises immediate massage recommends a treatment which is not generally sanctioned by the best surgeons, and which is attended with a risk of increasing instead of controlling the disease. Acute Purulent Synovitis.—The chief point in regard to acute suppurative synovitis which the researches of late years have developed, is the recognition of germs in the joint fluid in acute infectious diseases. 1 New York Medical Journal. May 17, 1890. Mansell-Moullin, Sprains. London, 1887. 3 Lyon Medical, t. lvii., p. 12.