INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 7G4 1 Schede, Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. cxiv., S. 1. thereby changing it into a sanguineous cyst. Cysts which at their first tapping yield a limpid fluid often at subsequent explorations have be- come sanguineous. Coagulation of the blood does not take place. In a few cases the cysts communicate with one of the larger veins by a vessel of considerable calibre. It must always remain a question whether such cysts are branchial or of the primary sanguineous char- acter described below. Although branchial cysts are clearly abnormal developments of rudi- mentary epithelia, and therefore in a pathological sense are always con- genital, they are not as a rule present at birth. Nearly sixty per cent, appear between the tenth and thirtieth years. The first decade of life furnishes about sixteen per cent, of the cases, but no age is exempt.1 Women are oftener than men the subjects of branchial cysts, and the left side appears to be oftener affected than the right. Development, usually slow in the dermoid forms, may be very rapid in the serous. The case presented in Fig. 0004 was of less than four weeks’ growth. To attain the size of a fist, from one to three years are ordinarily required, during which long periods of quiescence may be observed. Except from their pressure-effects branchial cysts produce no symptoms. When developing toward the floor of the mouth they give rise to great distress by pressure on the tongue. When devel- oped near the hyoid bone their growth is downward and toward the surface. In the few cysts observed above the clavicle, the pressure effects have likewise been little marked. Branchial cysts are perfectly outlined, soft, fluctuating, and free from pulsation except that which may be imparted from the underlying carotid. The integument, fascia, and muscles overlying them can be freely moved upon them, and they in turn to a much less extent on the tissues underneath. When there are attachments to vascular sheaths lateral movements are possible, while those in the line of the axis of the body are altogether abrogated. The progress of branchial cysts is altogether benign, though chronic. Rupture may take place spontaneously or may follow suppuration in- duced by injections or tapping. Such an accident generally leaves a very obstinate fistula, the occasional closure of which will probably entail a reproduction of the cystic tumor. Treatment.—The rational treatment of branchial cysts is the radical one of total extirpation. The difficulties encountered are in the rupture of the sac before the operation is completed, and in separating adhesions to the larger veins. The former accident may generally be avoided by keeping the knife well without the sac-wall, and by making the first incision of sufficient length. In almost every case it will be necessary to dissect the cyst from the vascular sheath. The internal jugular vein may be wounded at this stage of the operation, necessitating a lateral ligature, or division of the vein between two ligatures. When total ex- tirpation is not feasible, what constitutes the attached base of the sac may be deprived of its epithelium by curetting, and then left in situ. Other methods of treatment are tapping, injection of iodine, aseptic drainage, and partial resection with packing of the wound. In excep- tional cases, as in young children, one or other of these methods may be tried. It maybe said of them all that in their end results they are un-