757 LEUKAEMIA AND PSEUDO-LEUKAEMIA. encountered between the ages of six and twenty, and at a time of life when even extensive operations are safely borne. The measure of success following the operation is determined by the time at which it is done. Even without selection of specially favorable cases, ex- tirpation is followed by most gratifying immediate and final results. When suppuration has been absent before the operation, the wound is permanently healed in from two to three weeks. Local return after a period of three or more years occurs in less than ten per cent, of these cases, and reappearance of the disease elsewhere in only four per cent. In from fifty-seven to seventy per cent, of all cases the operation is followed by complete and permanent recovery. Leukaemia and Pseudo-Leukemia. Closely allied in their early manifestations to tuberculosis are the true lymphomata of glandular leuksemia and of malignant multiple lymphoma, commonly known as Hodg- kin’s disease, or malignant lympho- sarcoma. Both affections develop with predilection in the cervical glands, both superficial and deep, and with greater or less rapidity involve the lymph glands of the axilla and groin, and the deep-seated glands of the trunk. Both diseases occur chiefly in the young, but may occur in adults or even in the old. (Fig. 1715.) There is profound disturbance of nutrition in both forms of lymphoma. Common to both are the pale waxy skin, blanched mucous membranes, systolic heart murmur, great weak- ness, dropsy, and tendency to hemor- rhage. The differentiating feature is the great increase in the number of white blood corpuscles in the simple, and the absence of such increase in the malignant type of the disease. A mi- croscopic count of the blood corpuscles infallibly determines the nature of the lymphoma. The malignancy of Hodg- kin’s disease is further made manifest by secondary deposits, chiefly in the lungs, spleen, liver, and kidneys. The leuksemic variety is rarely associated with like changes in the spleen. According to Winiwarter and Hutchinson, Hodgkin’s disease mav Malignant, Lymphoma of Two Years’Duration in -> , , / , , , ,. . • a Man of Seventy. develop rather suddenly m an individ- ual who has had indolent glandular tumors localized in the neck or axilla for a long time, possibly for years. Quite often the accession of