FRACTURES IN PERSONS ALREADY DISEASED. 405 in the right hip, and at length the neck of the femur gave way. On the twenty-fourth day it was exposed and sutured at two points with silver wire; the soft parts were brought together with catgut, and a plaster bandage was applied to the limb. In eight weeks healing was complete, with one dressing; and nine months after operation the patient had good use of the limb, with free movement in every direction. An instance is recorded by H. Jackson,1 in which a woman aged 52 was the subject of subcortical disease of the left-leg-centre, the limb being paralyzed; on the twenty-third day the left femur gave way near the trochanters as she was being lifted off the bed-pan. At her death twenty days later there was found cancerous disease of the femur, ovary, and brain. As to fragility of the bones in disorders of the nervous system, T. Christian 2 asserts his belief that in the case of general paralytics this is a mere coincidence, and not a direct consequence of the disease.3 Benliam 1 5 reports a case of acute mania in a man aged 54, upon whose death all the left ribs from the 3d to the 7th were found fractured three or four inches from the sternum; they were so softened as almost to break under the finger. Nothing is said as to the state of the rest of the skeleton. Charpy6 thinks that fractures may occur in the syphilitic either as the result of a general change in the skeleton as a whole, impairing its power of resistance, or by reason of a local lesion, such as a simple or gummatous osteitis with rarefaction. He found the bones of syphili- tics deficient in resisting power, in density, and in weight. One con- stituent, the fluoride of calcium, was in the bones of such subjects only 1.09 per cent., as against 2.43 per cent, in healthy persons, and 2.92 in the phthisical. Tavernier6 gives an account of a married woman who, besides cuta- neous syphilides, had nodes on the clavicle and on both humeri; that on the left humerus had been painful for several days, when the bone gave way as she lifted a pillow. Under specific treatment union was complete in three months’ time. Picque7 mentions a syphilitic woman aged 57, who had an extra-cap- sular fracture of the cervix femoris; she had had also a fracture of one tibia, a'nd one of the clavicle, the latter still ununited. As to cancer, the same author refers to a case in which a woman aged 53 had a fracture of the right humerus, ununited at the end of five months; the left breast had been removed two years before, and the arm had become the seat of the recurrent disease six months after the operation. He quotes from Verneuil the case of a woman aged 35 who had cancer of the breast and of the left femur, when the right femur gave way; death ensued on the seventh day, but at the autopsy no tumor was found at the seat of fracture. He also cites from Despres two instances in which union took place; and says that this is the rule in osteo-sarcomata but not in carcinomata. W. Roger Williams 8 has 1 Lancet, March 5, 1887. 2 Journ. of Mental Science, January, 1886. 3 The same view is taken in an interesting paper by T. Claye Shaw (St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Reports, 1890) as the result of a number of experiments on the cadaver. 4 Journ. of Mental Science, April, 1885. 5 Annales de Sypliiligraphie et de Dermatologie, 25 Mars, 1887. 6 Ibid. 7 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 2 Mai, 1885. s Diseases of the Breast, pp. 200 et seq.