HERNIA. 890 stretch Gimbernat's ligament at this point enough to relieve the strangulation, and to effect reduction without the use of the bistoury; however, if this cannot be done, a long, probe-pointed knife should be carried flatwise along the palmar side of the finger, with the cut- ting edge directed toward the median line. The constriction is re- lieved by lifting or scraping the attachment of Gimbernat’s ligament from the os pubis, and in doing this the cutting edge of the knife should not be carried beyond this ligament, nor should it have any other direction than inward toward the symphysis. If these precautions are not observed, a dangerous complication may arise in the division of the obturator artery (or vein) in cases in which it is derived from the epi- gastric branch of the external iliac. In eight fatal cases of this char- acter recorded, the patients were all females. This abnormal derivation occurs in women in nearly fifty per cent, of cases, as determined by myself in a study of this artery in both sexes, and in twenty-five per cent in men; while the vein arches over the femoral ring in a still larger proportion of cases.1 The manner in which the artery arches over the crural ring is shown in Fig. If 39. When the strangulation is relieved, the contents of the sac are returned into the abdomen. Umbilical Hernia.—The diagnosis between this form of hernia and other tumors of. the umbilical region will depend chiefly upon the im- pulse conveyed to the hernia in the act of coughing, or in crying in children. If the hernia is made up of omentum—and this is not un- common in adults—it will be doughy to the feel, and flat or dull on percussion. Intestine will be more or less resonant. If the mass is reducible in the recumbent posture, and under direct manipulation, the diagnosis of hernia is evident. A cyst of the omphalomesenteric duct would be translucent, and fluctuation would be present. In con- genital hernia, the extreme thinness of the covering renders the re- cognition of the character of the tumor easy. The transverse colon often descends into the sac of an umbilical hernia. Treatment.—In congenital hernia at the navel, which is covered only by the thin membrane of the cord, the tumor should be returned at once. The margins of the aperture through which it has escaped should then be pared, and the opening closed by carefully adjusted silk sutures, supported by adhesive strips drawn in dove-tail fashion across the ab- domen at the weak point, or by a firmly rolled bandage. If covered over with integument the hernia should be reduced, and a small, firm compress laid over the opening and secured in place by adhesive plaster applied as just described. The acquired form is treated in the same general way. In reducing umbilical hernia a recumbent posture, with the legs slightly flexed, is advisable, and careful taxis is often necessary. A truss should be worn when in the upright posture, and even at night when the patient is suffering from cough. In mild cases a light rub- ber belt will suffice after retiring, but the heavy apparatus should be adjusted before leaving the recumbent posture. Irreducible hernia, not strangulated, may be held in position by a properly adjusted cup-shaped compress. The danger of strangulation is always present, and the advisability of 1 Wyeth, Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery. New York, 1878.