753 ACTINOMYCOSIS. hind the sterno-mastoid, but in either event the downward progress of the abscess will usually he limited by the fascial covering of the omo- hyoid. In other cases, unless operative measures are instituted, the abscess will dissect its way along the great blood-vessels to the root of the neck and through the upper chest aperture. Not a few lymphatic glands are found in the supra-clavicular triangle, in which abscesses may develop without connection with other pockets of the neck. A cervical abscess, in a patient recently in the wards of the Good Samaritan Hospital, developed in the wake of a suppurating cavity in the apex of the left lung. Abscesses from the axilla often ex- tend into this region, and vice versa. Secondary abscesses dependent on cervical caries sometimes progress in this direction, following the sheaths of the brachial nerves. The dorsal portion of the neck is not often the seat of true abscess, on account of the scarcity of its lymphatics and the greater resistance of its integument. Abscess here may, how- ever, follow furunculosis, or a slight infected wound. In addition to the usual dangers incident to suppuration, deep ab- scesses of the neck are sometimes followed by serious and even fatal hemorrhage. This remark applies particularly to the post-scarlatinal suppuration in which lesions of the veins predominate, although venous hemorrhage is comparatively infrequent. The lesser resistance of the walls of the vein permits the obliteration of its calibre. The thicker arterial wall on the other hand will ulcerate before occlusion can take place.1 The first extensive tabulation of cases in which the primitive carotid, internal carotid and subclavian, or their larger branches, were opened, was prepared by S. W. Gross.2 The hemorrhage may follow the opening of the abscess immediately, or it may not occur for a number of days. When smaller arteries are opened the hemorrhage will probably be recurrent, although the ulceration of even primitive trunks may not prove fatal except after repeated bleedings. Actinomycosis. Closely resembling in their clinical features chronic cervical abscesses are the suppurating granulomata of actinomycosis, first described in man by Israel.3 The ray fungus may gain access through carious teeth, ulcerated gums, or tonsils, and may find a nidus in the cervical glands. The point of invasion in the mouth or pharynx may not show any trace of the disease. Cases of this kind have recently been reported by Ran- neft and Blok.4 Although the fungus may itself produce pus, the sup- puration in actinomycosis is generally caused by the ordinary pus-form- ing organisms. The discharge from actinomycotic abscesses may be whey-like in appearance, or may resemble the pus of chronic abscesses from other causes. Its characteristic is the presence in the pus of many yellow or pearly granules, at most the size of a pin’s head, which when examined by transmitted light are distinctly brownish. Microscopic examination reveals more or less complete rosettes of club- shaped fungi. In cases of what might be termed primary cervical 1 Lindner, Deutsch. med. Wochensclir., 1887, S. 522. 2 Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences, 1871. 3 Virchow’s Arcliiv, Bd. lxxiv., S. 15. 4 Annals of Surgery, vol. xii., p. 392. VOL. VII —48