904 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. actly as usual, the silver-wire button-suture being passed under the gut.1 At the time of operation the man was suffering from dangerous obstruc- tion, the intestines being full of solid faeces and gas, and being much thinned from overdistention. The abdomen also was partially filled with serum and moderately distended. In stitching the gut to the skin I remarked on its unusual thinness, and took pains to put the sutures through the longitudinal bands for greater security. Trusting as I do a great deal to the single silver suture, it is not my practice to insert more than half a dozen silk stitches, to keep the bowel quietly in ap- position with the cutaneous incision till union takes place, and that was done in this case. On the following day my assistant visited the patient in my place, and was told by the nurse that just before his arrival there had been a profuse gush of serum from the wound, soiling the dressings and soaking through into the bed. An examination re- vealed the fact that several feet of small bow?el had also escaped through the wound by the side of the large gut, and were partially strangulated and growing cold. It wras found impossible to reduce the protruded bowel without gaining room, wffierefore the silver wire was cut and removed, after which reduction was accomplished without great difficulty. On my arrival it looked as though nothing had hap- pened. The large bowel was in perfect position, and on one side was still firmly attached by the silk sutures. But on the other side two of these had torn out, and at this unprotected point the evisceration had occurred. A few sutures were put in through the entire thickness of the gut and the skin, and the gut was incised to prevent any further trouble. The man made an uninterruptedly good recovery, and was out of bed at the usual time. I have never heard of another such accident as this. If it were of frequent occurrence, it could of course he guarded against by always opening the gut at the time of the operation, instead of a couple of days later as I prefer, and thus putting an end at once to all distention; hut I shall not modify my practice till I see more occasion to do so than is furnished by this single case. Another great advantage, besides location, which the inguinal open- ing offers, is the possibility of forming any sort of spur that may be desired. The only object in forming an artificial anus, in all cases except those in which it is done to relieve obstruction, is to prevent the passage of faeces into a diseased rectum, and the operation is a success or failure just in proportion as this is accomplished. It is easy to make an open- ing in the groin and not accomplish it, and this is one reason for my saying that not every one can do the operation properly. It is not apparently so easy to accomplish this in the lumbar region as in the in- guinal, for the simple reason that the descending colon is comparatively fixed, and cannot to the same extent as the sigmoid flexure be drawn 1 The silver wire is passed in the following manner : One end of the wire is first prepared with perforated shot and shield, and the other threaded to a strong, sharp needle. The needle is passed entirely through the abdominal wall about an inch to the right of.the incision, then under the gut through the mesentery, and then entirely through the abdominal wall again at the same distance to the left of the incision, from within outward. The wire is then drawn tight, so as to raise the gut well out of the incision, and the wire suture is made fast by an- other shot and shield. The suture should run under the gut at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the portion exposed in the wound. (Kelsey, Diseases of the Rectum and Anus, 4th edition, page 419. New York, 1893.)