INFECTIOUS OSTEOMYELITIS. 457 osteomyelitis it is more circumscribed. Further, the implication of the joint will settle the diagnosis in favor of osteomyelitis. Confusion of osteomyelitis with tuberculosis is quite possible. Of course, an acute osteomyelitis will not be mistaken for tuberculosis, but the chronic form may prove deceptive. Ullmann records a case in which he amputated above the knee, in a case which was thought to be one of tuberculosis; but on examination of the bones there was found an osteomyelitic abscess in the upper epiphysis of the tibia, in progress toward healing, and communicating with the popliteal space by means of a fistula looking exactly like a tuberculous opening. Albert has called attention to the possibility of confusing osteomyelitis with tuber- culosis in cases in which there is spontaneous luxation of the thigh bone with a firm swelling on the metacarpus, suggesting coxitis and spina ventosa. The confusion of osteomyelitis with pytemia and septicaemia is not remarkable; because both of these conditions not infrequently occur in osteomyelitis, and the mistake consists in a failure to investigate the case sufficiently, and to trace the causes of the various phenomena. Ullmann cites a case from Salomon in which osteomyelitis had the appearance of pernicious intermittent fever. The bones which are by far most frequently the seat of osteomyelitis are the femur and tibia, and after these the humerus. All collections of statistics agree on this point. But even the flat bones may be affected, as was seen in a case under the care of Albert, in which the frontal bone was involved. The symptoms were pain in the forehead, oedema from the root of the nose to the beginning of the hair, and chemosis in both eyes. Upon opening the soft parts and trephining the bone, pus escaped.1 Prognosis of Acute Infectious Osteomyelitis.—The prognosis of osteomyelitis is bad, but not as bad as it was formerly supposed to be; because there was a time when no cases were recognized except the most severe, and those which naturally had the worst outcome. At present the death rate is about 25 per cent. In the majority of cases, after the disease has lasted some weeks, the manifestations of inflam- mation diminish, the general condition of the patient impToves, the swelling of the limb lessens, and the disease assumes a rather chronic course, with the occurrence of necrosis and the formation of sequestra, or the development of bone abscesses. Necrosis takes place in about eight out of every nine or ten cases. The part of the bone to die may be the cortical portion, that is, a more or less thick layer of the wall of the bone; or the central portion, the part next to the medullary cavity, may undergo necrosis. There is a form of necrosis intermediate be- tween these two, in which the portion of the bone between the inner and outer layers of the cortical portion dies. Ullmann describes, be- sides these, a form of necrosis called penetrating, in which the bone dies over a certain area, from periosteum to medulla; and a trans- verse necrosis, in which the bone dies over a certain area in its entire thickness. 1 This case is reported by Ullmann, but, notwithstanding the eminence of the operator, the meagreness of detail in the report permits the thought that possibly the case was one of suppuration or inflammation of a frontal sinus.