INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1018 shows the transverse and the anterior and posterior incisions.1 (Fig. 1761.) “The vaginal flap A is held upward, and the rectal flap B is turned downward, the angles AFC being pulled by forceps diagon- ally upward and inward toward the middle line, and the angles B D E being pulled downward and forward. The lines C E thus become straight, and the wound takes this form (Fig. 1762)— “ By means of a stout-handled and well-curved needle the silkworm-gut sutures are entered on one side about an eighth of an inch within the margin of the wound (so as not to include the skin) at the dots A. They are buried deeply in the tissue as far as B, and then the needle is made to emerge so as to miss the angle of the wound. The needle again enters at the large dots C and emerges at the dots B. By thus missing the upper or deep angle of the wound between B and C, the two great and divided masses of the old perineum, which lie in the parallelograms respectively bounded by the lines of large dots A—B and C—D, are accurately adapted. The rectal and vaginal flaps respectively point into the rec- tum and vagina, and like an old-fashioned flap-valve prevent noxious material entering the wound. The resulting mass of perineum is amazingly large, and union is almost inevitable. . . . The resulting cicatrix is absolutely linear, and so resembles the natural raphe that in three or four months after the operation it is quite impossible to de- termine from the appearance of the parts that the perineum has ever been injured, for there are no stitch-hole marks left to tell the story. The pain experienced after the operation is trifling compared to the old method of quilled or shotted suture.” The stitches are left in for three or four v/eeks, and great care is taken that the rectum and vagina are washed out twice daily. Many operators depart from Mr. Tait’s rule not to include either margin of skin in the sutures, claiming that by such inclusion the stitches hold more firmly, and that closer approximation is secured: so too, some do not hesitate, though operating as suggested, to remove the stitches at the end of ten or twelve days. This operation is very easily and quickly done—only eight or ten minutes being necessary—and when applied to suitable cases gives very satisfactory results, and does not merit the disparagement which some have cast upon it. Its value has, among man}r others, been freely re- cognized by some of the most able German operators, Gusserow and Winter, for example.2 Many of the illustrations and descriptions given of Tait’s operation are misleading; for example, some of the former do not show the pos- terior incisions, but only the transverse and anterior, and others repre- sent the sutures as buried in their entire course; several writers state 1 The figures and the description are Mr. Tait’s, as given in Macnaughton Jones’s Manual of Diseases of Women. 2 Deutsche med. Wochenschrift, 1892. Fig. 1762. D C B A Tait’s Operation for Lacerated Perineum, Showing Points of Entrauce and Emergence of Sutures. (Macnaughton Jones.)