252 TUMORS. the epiphyseal cartilages. Sutton figures islands of cartilage which have been left unchanged in the epiphyseal line completely surrounded by hone, ready at the call of any irritation to spring into independent being and form neoplasms. The common occurrence of enchondromatous tumors in the neighborhood of epiphyses, and their frequent multiplicity, are thus also explained. The whole forms an additional argument in favor of Cohnheim’s hypothesis. As to the situation of chondromata, Williams gives us the informa- tion, based upon an analysis of seventy-two cases, that thirty-eight per cent. (Gurlt says 21.5 per cent.) occur in the parotid, twenty-two per cent. (14.6 per cent., Gurlt) in the hand, twenty-two per cent. (13 per cent., Gurlt) attached to the long bones, three per cent. (5 per cent., Gurlt), in the superior maxilla, five percent, in the submaxillary gland, and the rest in the lower jaw (Gurlt, 8 per cent.), breast, testis, ischio- rectal space, toe (Gurlt, foot and toes 18 per cent.), scapula, external ear, and mediastinum. From the mention of the salivary glands it is evident that no attempt has been made by Williams to sift out of this list the mixed tumors, and probably Gurlt’s figures more nearly repre- sent the frequency of pure enchondromata. Berger has provided us with a careful study of this form of tumor in the upper jaw. Quoting Weber’s figures of only fifteen cases of chon- droma in the upper jaw out of a total of one hundred and ninety, he adds that he easily collected thirty cases but had to eliminate all but eighteen, as the rest were not pure chondromata, the cartilage being mixed with bone, fibrous tissue, or sarcomatous tissue. The pure chondroma of the upper maxilla is as a rule a slowly growing tumor, not infiltrating the surrounding parts, or infecting glands or distant organs, but it recurs very frequently, in fact almost universally, unless the removal has been unusually thorough. This last peculiarity, and the ultimate extension of these growths by contiguity to the base of the skull, or to some other part in which they can no longer be treated by operation, gives them a semblance of malignity. But if the sur- geon can bring himself to remove the entire superior maxilla at the first operation, recurrence will not take place, and this should be the rule in dealing with all such tumors, no matter how small and limited they may appear. A few cases of enchondroma in connection with the larynx have lately been added to the list by Putelli and Bocker, bringing the num- ber of undoubted cases recorded in this rare situation up to eight. Marsh has reported a curious case in which an enchondroma formed on the tibia just outside of the synovial membrane of the knee, directly under the ligamentum patellae. Haberern relates a case in which an enchondroma formed at the seat of a fracture through the condyles of the humerus, the first symptom observed being severe pain beginning six weeks after the patient had been dismissed from treatment with a consolidated fracture, and the tumor being first noticed nine months subsequently. The extremity was removed by amputation, and the tumor was found to be a cystic enchondroma. Of seventeen cases of callus-tumor collected by Haberern, five were sarcomata and seven chondromata. He suggests associating these tumors with the chondro- mata observed in rickets, and explaining them by irregular ossification of the callus. Several congenital cartilaginous tumors of the neck have