LOCAL ANAESTHETICS. 187' litholapaxy, herniotomy, laparotomy, etc., but since several deaths have occurred from its use, it should be looked upon as a dangerous anaesthet- ic, unless the drug can be confined and its entrance into the circulation graduated. Its effect upon different individuals varies greatly, and it should therefore be used cautiously, and the patient sho'uld he watched for some time after its systemic diffusion. In operations in- volving the skin, the drug should be injected into the derma itself, and not beneath it. Schleich 1 suggests a 1 to 10,000 solution in a two-per- cent. salt solution for intradermal injection, and declares that it is effi- cient and absolutely safe. Tropa-Cocaine (:Tropsin).—Under this name Chadbourne2 calls attention to a new coca base. It is a benzoyl-pseudo-tropein, made syn- thetically, and is a powerful anaesthetic. A three-per-cent, solution of the hydrochlorate in a weak saline solution is employed, and it is claimed that it is more active, less irritating, more stable, and less than half as toxic as cocaine. Cocaine Phenate.—This combination was produced by Von Oefele,3 and has been favorably reported upon by Veasey.4 The employment of these preparations has not been sufficiently extensive to enable one to form any definite opinion as to their merits. Ethyl Chloride.—When this substance is sprayed upon the surface of the body, it produces local anaesthesia by freezing. It is kept in a compressed form, sealed in glass tubes. Other Local Anaesthetics.—Many substances have been added to the list of local anaesthetics during the past few years, but upon careful investigation most of them have been proven to be either inert, less efficient than cocaine, or too irritating for use, or to be proprietary preparations in which cocaine is found. Stenocarpine, or Gleditschia triacanthus, is an efficient local anaesthetic which belongs to the last class.5 Dminiae, proposed as efficient, was found absolutely inert by Ogston.c Erythrophlcein produces anaesthesia of the cornea, but its mode of action is in dispute. It does not produce anaesthesia when in- jected.7 Anaesthesia has been produced by instilling from two to three drops of an aqueous solution of strophanthus8 into the eye. The action is slow, but the effect quite prolonged. Intraocular pressure is greatly increased. Many other substances have a local anaesthetic effect upon the tissues,3 as, for instance, ammonium bromide and sulphate, iron salts, acetate of lead, resorcin, antipyrine, drugs of the digitalis group, and the es- sential oils; the latter act by destroying the nerve ends and by causing adjacent irritation. Styptics and caustics are, as a class, anaesthetic, as are salt solutions and even distilled water. 1 La Semaine Medicale, 1892. 1 British Med. Journal, vol. ii., 1892. 3 Merck’s Bulletin, 1891. 4 Medical News, 1893. 6 Ibid., 1887. 6 British Med. Journal, 1887. 1 Annual of Univ. Med. Sciences, 1889. 8 Ibid., 1888. 9 Ibid., 1889.