105 PYAEMIA. described in septicsemia, such as headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, albumin in the urine, and sometimes haematogenous jaundice. The other symptoms are produced mostly by metastatic processes in the inner organs, the lungs, liver, spleen and kidneys. Haemoptysis, lobular pneumonia, abscesses in the lungs, and the different forms of pleuritis are quite frequent. Next in frequency are abscesses in the spleen and metastatic suppurations of the joints, while abscesses in the liver and kidneys are comparatively rare. In judging of the signifi- cance of brain symptoms in high fever, we must bear in mind the fact that a considerable number of cases are complicated by metastatic ab- scesses in the brain. The metastases in the superficial organs, such as the lymphatic glands, parotids, joints, muscles, and subcutaneous cellu- lar tissue, are relatively easy to recognize, if we look for them carefully. This is necessary, because a great many of these abscesses originate and develop without the slightest pain, or without localized pain, and thus may be overlooked. Attention is called to them, however, by the sudden occurrence of fever, which indicates the existence of a new focus of suppuration. As intercurrent symptoms, we have to mention, finally, secondary hemorrhages, which are caused by the decay of thrombi in arteries as well as veins, after they become infected. These are the usual secon- dary hemorrhages; but there is also another kind, which occurs if the walls of the blood-vessels become corroded in phlebitis. The bleeding is mostly of a venous character, but arterial hemorrhages have also been observed not very rarely, especially if branches of arteries have been cut and ligatured near a main trunk. According to the duration of pyaemia, we distinguish an acute and a chronic form, the acute variety lasting from eight to ten or twelve days; then there is a so-called sub-acute form, lasting three or four weeks, and finally, but rarely, the true chronic form, lasting from two to five months. Sometimes, the course of the disease seems to be run, when suddenly, after months, septic material is set free from a focus hitherto encapsulated, causing again a general infection, to which the patient may succumb. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of pyaemia, with symptoms as described above, cannot be attended by any real difficulty; at least, we may readily recognize a septic infection, the specific character of which is practically of no real importance, as the treatment will be essentially that of sepsis generally. Prognosis.—The prognosis of acute pyaemia is almost without ex- ception absolutely fatal. The course is more rapid in proportion to the quicker succession of chills and fever attacks combined. Cases of a more chronic form end in exhaustion. Some cases, especially if the abscesses have been accessible to surgical treatment, have been cured in spite of multiple metastases, and even some cases with abscesses in the vital organs, and yet without fatal result, have been observed. Treatment.—The treatment of pyaemia approaches very nearly to that of septicaemia, and I therefore refer to what has already been said, with the only difference that in pyaemia the local treatment is of even higher importance, as we are sometimes able, at least in the beginning,