392 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. chan’s) followed by a period of relief lasting a year, when there was a return of the pain. The cicatricial tissue in the line of the original operation was now removed with the hope of affording relief, but while this procedure was followed by some improvement, it was not permanent. The more radical operation of intracranial neurectomy of the affected nerve was then carried out. The steps of the operation consisted in making a semicircular incision over the right tem- poral region, extending to the bone, which was chiselled through in the line of incision through the soft parts. The bone with its coverings was next turned down as one flap, exposing the dura mater with the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. The dura was separated from the middle cerebral fossa, when with the handle of an ordinary table-spoon the brain was lifted up far enough to give a good view of the superior maxillary nerve. Meckel’s space was next opened, exposing the Gasserian ganglion, when that portion of the superior max- illary nerve which intervened between the ganglion and the foramen rotundum was excised. The stump of the nerve occupying the site of the foramen rotun- dum was dislodged by a blunt hook, making the foramen patulous. The osteo- plastic flail was now replaced, and the skin wound brought together with inter- rupted silkworm-gut sutures. Recovery was uneventful. The electric head-light was at first used, but owing to failure of the battery natural light had to be depended upon, and was perfectly satisfactory. Case II.—Intracranial Neurectomy of the Superior and Inferior Maxillary Nerves.—A. N. F., male, aged 44, was admitted to the German Hospital (private room) July 18, 1894. For several years the patient had suffered from a most obstinate neuralgia of the inferior dental nerve. In the summer of 1892, in the same hospital, I had trephined the inferior maxilla and had excised a portion of the affected nerve; this had been followed by relief for one year, when there was a return of pain referred not only to the distribution of the inferior dental but to that of the superior maxillary nerve as well. On July 20, two days after his admission to the hospital for the second time, I performed intracranial neu- rectomy of both the superior and inferior maxillary nerves. The technique of the operation was the same as that in the case of M. S., with the exception that in this instance two nerves instead of one were excised. The patient was dis- charged cured on August 3. ‘ Tic convulsif, or epileptiform tic, in contradistinction to tic douloureux proper, or trifacial neuralgia, may exist as an indepen- dent and painless condition, or may be present as a symptom of the latter affection. The operation for the relief of this form of tic is stretching the facial nerve. One of two methods can be used to expose the nerve, namely, Baum’s and Hitter’s. In Baum’s method, the best, a vertical incision, two and one-half inches in length, is carried behind the ear and parallel with the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The posterior border of the parotid gland, the first important structure seen, is displaced forward, when the aponeurosis of the sterno- mastoid is brought into view. The dissection is carried down and be- tween these structures until the layer of fascia covering the prevertebral muscles is exposed, directly in front of which the nerve will be seen closing the space between the mastoid and the vertical ramus of the jaw. Should there be any difficulty in recognizing the nerve, the electric light and the forehead mirror, in addition to the use of the faradic current, will be found of material benefit. The superiority of this method over that of Hitter is, that the scar is hidden by the ears, that the nerve is more ‘readily exposed, and that all of the branches given off beyond the stylo-mastoid foramen are influenced by the stretching. In Hiiter’s method a vertical incision is carried in front of the ear into the sub-