DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. 86 in apparently slight cases. The prognosis depends upon a great many circumstances, such as, especially, the location of the affection, its dura- tion and extent, the constitution and age of the patient, the intensity of the fever, etc. The rate of mortality has been very differently re- ported by different authors, but 11 per cent, seems to be about the right figure, taking into consideration Ziilzer's statistics and those of Ameri- can physicians, based upon a large number of cases. For the sake of completeness, I must mention here the so-called zoonotic erysipeloid, or wandering erythema (erythema migrans) of the fingers and hands. Etiologically, it really has nothing to do with true erysipelas, as it is caused, according to Rosenbach’s investigations, by a particular micrococcus, larger than a staphylococcus, of special quali- ties, which seems to have much analogy with Cohn's cladothrix dicho- toma. It especially attacks individuals whose occupation brings them in contact with dead animal substances, such as, dealers in fish and game, cooks, oyster-openers, barkeepers, butchers, tanners, and dealers in cheese and herrings. Its clinical course is entirely different, as it always occurs without fever, and almost without exception stops at the wrist. It is often quite persistent, lasting sometimes from three to four or six weeks, while other cases disappear spontaneously in one or two weeks. Its rational treatment consists in an injection of a two-per- cent. solution of carbolic acid into the inflamed skin, especially at its boundaries. Treatment.—We have no remedy which is even reasonably reliable against erysipelas. This somewhat striking assertion is proved by the enormous number of medicaments or methods of treatment which are recommended. Whenever this is the case with a disease, it is self-evi- dent that none of the would-be remedies is reliable, or there would be no reason to try new ones. Quite often an infallible remedy has been supposed to have been dis- covered, but has soon proved to be a deception. This is very possible, especially with erysipelas, as we have in this case to deal with a disease of entirely inconstant and untypical duration and intensity. We know that there are cases which last only for a few hours, and some which last for weeks. So we understand how little we may trust in the so-called abortive methods. It is quite out of the question even te mention all the “ remedies” employed in earlier years. They vary from the use of a hot flat-iron and leeches, to the employment of oils, lard, glycerin, chalk, flour, milk, brandy, water, decoctions of lilacs, poppy- seed, all sorts of salves, the thermo-cautery, and vesicatories. But these were only external remedies; to recount those for internal use would be impossible. The internal treatment of erysipelas has to be mostly symptomatic, since all efforts to find a specific remedy for erysipelas have been in vain. In light, uncomplicated cases, treatment is unnecessary; ade- quate diet, care for the proper function of the bowels, plenty of fresh air, and perhaps a mild laxative, are sufficient. It is not to be recom- mended to treat patients with erysipelas antiplilogistically, as the bodily strength may be needed very badly, and sudden lowering of the tem- perature may cause a fatal collapse. The most important factor in the treatment of erysipelas is the use of alcohol, strong wine, beer.