INJURIES OF JOINTS. 480 Great difficulty will be experienced in determining the presence of fracture in these cases. Probably more of them should be cut down upon, as in fracture the operation is even more strongly indicated than in simple dislocation. Ribs.—At least one case of dislocation of a rib from its corresponding vertebra has been reported (Quint). This confirms the statement of earlier writers. Late authors have doubted the existence of this dis- placement except by fracture of the costal neck. In Quint’s case an autopsy was made and the diagnosis verified. The first rib was separ- ated by the passage of a wagon-wheel across the body. Costo-chondral dislocations are not always reducible. Bradley reports a case of dis- placement of five ribs backward from their cartilages in which replace- ment could not be effected. Although dyspnoea existed at first, com- plete recovery followed, though with deformity. Other similar cases have recently been published (Stoner, Stimson). A free incision of the skin and muscle, care being taken to avoid the pleura, would give an opportunity to grasp the rib by forceps, but no such operation has as yet been reported. Sternum.—The injuries caused by railway accidents include not in- frequently displacements of the bones of the sternum. The accident is far more common than formerly. In several cases seen by myself, the cause has been the same, viz., crushing of the chest between mov- ing cars in the occupation of switching or coupling them together. Usually such cases have a fatal ending from other injuries. In one case of backward dislocation of the manubrium I was unable to effect reduction, and as the patient declined operative interference the deform- ity remained. There was, however, no dyspnoea or apparent disability after a few weeks. Clavicle.—The treatment of dislocation of the sternal end is often disappointing. The deformity which remains has recently been treated by periarticular injections of alcohol. Stimson reports success in re- storing normal position by this measure. Double dislocation of the sternal ends was successfully treated by Carraher, pressure being ap- plied by a figure-of-eight bandage crossing over the heads of the bones. The difficulty in these cases is not the reduction, but the retaining in position. Shoulder.—Ory reports a case of dislocation of the shoulder from muscular action in striking out with the fist. This accident has also occurred in swimming. Sir J. Lister reports two cases of double dislo- cation, one of which was caused by lifting a man from the water by the hands. A dislocation of the shoulder has recently been reported in a child two years old, said to have been the youngest patient in whom this injury has been noted. Autopsies made by Berthat would seem to show that a portion of the tuberosity of the humerus is commonly torn off in dislocations. Stimson found in an irreducible dislocation of the shoulder that the tendon of the subscapularis crossed the head of the bone. After this had been divided, reduction was easy. Arthrotomy is much to be preferred to manipulation or excision in