281 CARCINOMA. inherent power for mischief, which should determine the extent of the excision, and that if a cure can be obtained it is well worth while for the patient to sacrifice a portion of either jaw, or to submit to such an extensive operation as pharyngotomy, even' if the tumor to be removed be no larger than a pea. Carcinoma of the Tongue.—Although histologically an epithelioma, one of the most intractable forms of cancer is that of the tongue, prob- ably because of the constant movement of the organ, its liability to injury, and the great tendency of the parts in the mouth to sepsis. The general health is very soon affected, and the lymphatic channels are usually invaded early; in fact, Sachs cites instances in which they were involved as early as five weeks after the disease was noticed, although in some chronic cases the glands may escape for a long time. Often none can be felt until the skin is incised. In fifty-two cases Sachs found the submaxillary glands involved in forty-five, and in thirty-six they were the only glands attacked, while five times the infection skipped them and appeared in the cervical, submental, or retromaxillary glands. Bilateral involvement of tbn lymphatics is often found when the tumor itself is confined to one side. Of 176 cases of carcinoma of the tongue collected by Pennell, Wil- liams, Landau, and Sachs, 120 (fifteen per cent.) occurred in women, a proportion larger than is usually admitted. The ages of the pa- tients affected varied from twenty years upward, and besides the one patient who was twenty years of age, there was one of twenty-three, and a third of twenty-five. Of 303 patients who were questioned on these points (Williams, Whitehead, Pennell), sixty per cent, used tobacco, and the majority smoked a pipe; and nineteen per cent, had had syphilis. Other local causes were direct injury in eleven cases, ulcers from bad teeth in thirty-seven, ichthyosis in fourteen, localized syphilis in four- teen, and glossitis in three—a total of 79 cases out of 194, or forty per cent, of the cases noted with this in view. It would therefore appear probable that in this form of cancer, as in epithelioma of the skin, local irritation played a very important part in the etiology of the disease. As to the location of the tumor in the tongue, its most frequent situ- ation is on the edge and at the anterior part; but by no means always anteriorly, for among forty-three cases situated on the edges Williams found twenty-one in the middle of the tongue, four in its anterior por- tion. and no less than fourteen toward the base. Adding together Williams’s and Sachs’s cases, we find in a total of 119, eighty-six on the sides, eight on the tip, seven on the fraenum, six on the dorsum, five on the under surface, two involving the entire organ, two situated in its substance, and two occupying its posterior half, while only one oc- cupied the anterior half. It is evident from this that the disease is al- most invariably unilateral, at least at its beginning. When the new growth spreads beyond the tongue, which we learn from Sachs occurs in about thirty-eight per cent, of the cases, it most frequently involves the floor of the mouth and the gums, and next frequently the pillars of the fauces, while the tonsil is least often attacked—only twice in sixty-six cases. In a recent paper I have analyzed several valuable reports upon the