626 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. linear craniotomy does allow of later expansion, both of the brain and of the skull. The operation is a simple one. After the usual preparation, the line of incision being chosen, the scalp is divided either from side to side, or from the border of the hair well back on the occipital bone. A lateral incision is then made just back of the anterior border of the hair, to al- low of the scalp over the forehead being drawn forward for making the groove in the frontal bone, and yet not to allow any visible scar on the forehead. Hemorrhage having been arrested by hemostatic forceps, the skull is perforated by a half-inch trephine, about half an inch from the median line, to avoid the superior longitudinal sinus. This was wounded by Halley.1 The best instrument for gnawing away the bone Fig. 1691. is I think the pair of forceps devised by myself (Fig. 1691), with which I have completed the entire operation in less than twenty minutes. I have very rarely been compelled to ligate any blood-vessels. The pres- sure of the haemostatic forceps, and afterward of the sutures, is sufficient to control it. The bone having been gnawed away, the pericranium is detached from the flap and cut away with the scissors, so as to prevent the formation of any new bony tissue in the groove. The edges of the scalp are then united by sutures, and the ordinary dressings applied. Occasionally I have drained by horsehair, laid from end to end, but more commonly I have done without drainage. Almost invariably the wound will unite by first intention within five or six days. What the ultimate results of the operation will be when we have been able to fol- low such cases for 10 or 20 years, is as yet, of course, very uncertain. Trephining for Psychoses. These may be divided into cases of (1) Traumatic Insanity, (2) Non- Traumatic insanity, and (3) General Paralysis of the Insane. I. Traumatic Insanity.—Although in many cases the treatment of this condition will be empirical, yet it holds out a very much better prospect of success than in the class of cases just considered. Fletcher2 refers to 9 previously reported cases, in which there were 1 Journal Amer. Med. Assoc., July 15, 1893. 2 Amer. Journal of Insanity, 1887, vol. xliv., p. 212.