HYDROPHOBIA. 135 As to the final effects of the employment of the ether in this case, urged from time to time so as to control the violence of the paroxysms, nothing was observed which should give encouragement to its repetition in similar cases. Having experimented with chloroform at the outset of the first case, and afterward with the nitrite of amyl, and now having tested the influence of ether, without securing any satisfactory result, I should be inclined to try some other class of medication if another case of hydrophobia should come under my care. The patient died on the morning after I first saw him, having had most violent paroxysms of irregular muscular contractions whenever the ether was temporarily withdrawn. There was no evidence of any curative agency from its use, though his sufferings were lessened, and only for euthanasia is its employ- ment commendable. While administering the ether, my forefinger was caught between the teeth of the patient, and was lacerated so that the blood flowed from it at a point on the inside, near the nail. The wound was imme- diately bathed in oil of turpentine, and sucked by myself most energeti- cally, the finger being afterward enveloped in cotton saturated with turpentine. I had received the impression from writers on this disease as it occurs in man, that it was not communicable by the bites of human beings. But I considered that an abundance of caution in this case was called for, and hence acted promptly in preventing absorption by a firm grip around the finger with my other hand, until it had been washed with the oil of turpentine and thoroughly sucked. It gave me no con- cern afterward, and more especially as the bite had been inflicted through a fold of the towel held in the hand, did I feel relieved of all apprehen- sions. It has been proved since that the human virus may give the disease, and hence a bite should not be neglected. In compliance with a request of Mr. H. W. Grady, as already men- tioned, I made a visit to Social Circle in February, 1889, to get the facts connected with the death of a man in that neighborhood. It was reported currently that he had suffered from hydrophobia, and the object was to confirm or disprove that allegation. Mr. J. H. W., a white man of middle age who lived on his farm, was bitten by a cat on January 2, 1889, the weather then being very cold. The wound was on his left front finger, where there had been a bone-felon in former years. He went on with his ordinary duties without seeming to be concerned about the in- jury, and the wound healed kindly before the end of the month. On February 2, there had been pain in the part, and on the following day he had had chilly sensations. During the 4th, 5th, and 6th of February there were developed well-marked convulsions, with dread of water and great difficulty in swallowing fluids, while froth came from his mouth. On the third day of his disorder, he would be quiet a minute or two, and then a “spell ” would come on and he would jump up and run around the room, saying afterward that he was choking to death. He could say nothing while the “ spell ” was on him. He attempted on the morning of the 5th to take milk through a quill, and got a little in his mouth, but could not swallow it. In the evening, however, he ceased running and hitting himself on the breast to get breath, after which he was able to swallow, and drank several dippers of water. The “ spells ” still came on occasionally, but he seemed to be getting better for a time. But about midnight he changed for the worse again, and he would jump up three or four feet from the floor and beat himself with his fists. Those around him tried to hold him in bed, and he would clinch his jaws and grit his teeth, and gasp for breath. He died at 9 p.m. on Wednesday, February 6, after repeatedly