262 TUMORS. In the way of pathology, Haberern has collected five cases showing that sarcoma may develop from the callus at the seat of a fracture. Berliner brings additional evidence to prove that the idea of Virchow, Hiiter, and others, is incorrect, and that sarcoma of the bones is not lim- ited in its advance by the epiphyseal line of the bone, but may cross this barrier. The statement of Borck that not a single case was on record in which amputation at the hip had cured a case of sarcoma of the femur, has aroused interest in the subject of the results to be expected after oper- ations for sarcoma of the bones. In regard to the hip, Borck himself quotes four cases in which the patients remained well for over two years after operation—one for twenty-seven months; one for thirty months, with “nodules” on the back and arms attached to the bones (hardly secondary tumors); one for three years; and one for thirteen years, with a suspicious tumor of the arm—the last two cases certainly deserve to be classed as cures. Rose relates a case in which he amputated at the hip joint in a woman twenty-four years of age, and at the same time excised a recurrent nodule in the scar of a breast removed three years before, and obtained a cure, for she lived seven years without re- currence, finally dying of gout. Kuster reports a case which had been without recurrence for three years. Gross, in a collection of 90 cases of sarcoma of the long bonks ob- served sufficiently long after operation, found 26.6 per cent, of cures, the patient remaining well for three years or more. His tables show well the difference between the giant-cell and the other tumors, for in the former 40 per cent, of the patients remained well for three years or more, while of the latter only 17 per cent, were cured. Nasse, in 39 cases from von Bergmann’s clinic, corroborates Gross’s figures, obtain- ing 22 per cent, of cures, and his results are more reliable than Gross’s, since they represent the results of an uninterrupted series of cases at one clinic, while Gross selected his at random from the records of sur- gical literature. Coley reports from the New York Hospital 9 cases of round-cell and spindle-cell sarcoma, in which 3 patients died, 1 had a recurrence, 1 was lost sight of, and 4 remained well for two, three, eight, and nine years respectively. Chavasse, in a table of cases of removal of the scapula and arm for tumors affecting the former, found in 38 cases 9 deaths, 9 patients lost sight of, 13 recur- rences, and 7 patients well (3 for eighteen months, 2 for two years, 1 for six years, and 1 for nine years). Sarcoma of the Nerves.—Sai’coma arising from the nerves springs from the endoneurium, and authorities are divided upon the question as to the presence of an increase of nerve-fibres in the tumor, Krause claiming that he has found an increase, or at least a lengthening, of the primitive nerve fibres, which pursued a very tortuous course through the growth, while the majority of writers, including the recent contribu- tors Garre and Goldmann, deny that this was present in their specimen. It is necessary to distinguish between the single tumors occurring upon previously healthy nerves, and the so-called malignant degen- eration so common in multiple fibromata of the nerves. According to Krause, the single tumors occur especially on the main nerves of the ex- tremities, particularly the median, in the arm and forearm, and the scia-