(159) ABSCESSES AND ULCERS. BY HENRY R. WHARTON, M.D., DEMONSTRATOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE PRESBY- TERIAN, METHODIST AND CHILDREN’S HOSPITALS, ASSISTANT SURGEON TO THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL, ETC. Abscesses. Acute Abscess.—-The almost invariable presence of certain infec- tions organisms in acute abscesses, staphylococci or streptococci, has led to the generally accepted opinion that this form of disease is directly dependent upon their presence, although Grawitz and Lemiere have shown by carefully conducted experiments that suppuration may be caused by the injection of irritating substances unaccompanied by micrococci or ptomaines. Lemiere recognizes the possibility of the for- mation of pus without the presence of micro-organisms, which form of suppuration he describes as chemical abscess, and differentiates this variety from that due to the presence of microbes. He says that in chemical abscesses, the cause being limited, the effect of pus produc- tion is limited to the time taken for the irritant to act, and that even if the chemical action be weak, the irritation may be sufficient to produce a barrier of newly formed cells which will encyst the abscess and pre- vent its spreading. On the other hand, abscesses due to micro-organ- isms are progressive, not limited, and the germ, when introduced into a favorable soil, can continue to proliferate and bring to the neighboring parts a new infection. For clinical purposes, I think it wise to regard all acute abscesses as the result of infective organisms. Treatment of Acute Abscess.—The treatment of an acute abscess con- sists in making a free incision to evacuate its contents. The only mod- ification in treatment which has been practised in recent years consists in the adoption of measures to make the abscess cavity aseptic, and in the use of such dressings as may maintain it in this condition. Before opening an acute abscess the skin surrounding it should be gently washed with soap and water, and finally with a 1-2000 bichloride of mercury solution; a free incision should then be made of sufficient extent to expose the cavity of the abscess and to permit the escape of its contents. The cavity should next be irrigated with water which has been boiled and cooled down to the proper temperature, or with a warm 1-2000 bichloride or 1-60 carbolic solution. When the cavity of the abscess has been thoroughly irrigated, and there is no further escape of pus with the injected solution, if not extensive or very deep, drainage will