INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 944 Aero-Urethroscope.—To von Antal is due the credit of having devised a urethroscope designed to effect exposure of the urethral sur- face by inflating the channel with compressed air. This is accom- plished by means of a pressure bulb attached to the instrument. A glass diaphragm in the funnel-shaped end of the lamp box, together with a concavo-convex cup into which the glans penis fits near the proximal end of the urethral tube, prevents the escape of the air. Another instrument, similar to von Antal’s, has been devised by Heuer. Both of these instruments, while affording a good exposure of the urethra, are limited in their usefulness to the field of diagnosis, the glass diaphragm above men- tioned preventing their being employed for purposes of local treat- ment. This defect has been remedied by Mr. E. Hurry Fenwick.1 His improved aero - ure- throscope is so con- structed that the glass diaphragm closing the tube can be removed, permitting the use of the' instrument for therapeutic purposes. This form of urethro- scope has not yet at- tained very great pop- ularity, in this country at least. One advan- tage connected with it, however, to which Fenwick calls attention,2 seems worth mentioning. This is the facility with which the canula can be moved along the urethra, without caus- ing pain, in consequence of the absence of friction at the end of the tube, the urethral walls being pushed away from it by the air inflation. (Fig. 1755.) Employment of the Urethroscope.—In order to be prepared to meet with the varying capacities of different urethrae, it is necessary to be provided with a number of tubes or canulae, varying both in length and calibre. Thus, a set should comprise tubes ranging in cir- cumference from No. 20 to No. 32 or 34 of the French scale, and from 3 to 5| or 6 inches long. Of course it is obvious that, for a given examina- tion, the largest tube that will enter the urethra should be chosen, and furthermore that the best illumination will be obtained through a short tube of large diameter. Should the meatus be disproportionately small, it should be enlarged with a tenotome so as to admit an instru- ment of suitable size. The tube should be warmed before being used, 1 British Med. Journ., Dec. 31, 1892. 2 Epitome of Urinary Surgery. Bristol, 1894. Fig. 1755. Fenwick’s Aero-Urethroscope.