INJURIES OF BONES. 414 In a case reported by Gill,1 a man about 50 years old fell, while drunk, a distance of twenty feet; he had a simple fracture of the ninth and tenth right ribs, and a fracture of the sternum just below the junction of the first and second portions; the pleura was wounded, causing emphysema; he suffered from profound shock, but recovered, fibrous union taking place. A very similar case, the fracture being, however, at the junction of the second and third portions, with an angular projection forward, is recorded by Eames;2 the result is not stated. Bennett3 reports the case of a man crushed against a wall, who had a fracture of the sternum running downward and backward, beginning in front at the level of the cartilages of the second ribs, and ending below that of the cartilages of the third pair; the second and third ribs were broken on both sides, and on the right the fourth and fifth also; the trachea was ruptured transversely, its upper and lower portions being an inch apart. Porter4 gives a case in which a young man of 21 had a separation, apparently epiphyseal, between the second and third pieces of the gladi- olus, the lower overriding the upper. Lyman6 saw the gladiolus driven backward from the manubrium, the second rib on each side remaining attached to the latter. In both the cause was direct violence; in both reduction failed, but took place spontaneously in the act of coughing. Another case, successfully treated with a plaster bandage, is reported by Gale.6 I have recently had under my care at the Pennsylvania Hospital a man, aged 60, who had fallen a distance of three stories, sustaining a fracture of the right upper angle of the manubrium and of two or three ribs; the right tibia was also broken in its upper fifth. There was very marked shock, and next day emphysema, which extended up the neck and across to the left side. For about two weeks he lay in a stupor; then he improved very much, but a week later became delirious, espe- cially at night. This condition gradually subsided; about the sixth week he was out of bed, and at the end of nine weeks he was discharged well. Fractures of the Clavicle. Cathcart7 calls attention to the fact that the weight of the upper limb is supported by the trapezius muscle, acting through the clavicle, which is a lever with its fulcrum at the sterno-clavicular joint. He cites in evidence of this some observations by Duchenne and by Cleland in cases of paralysis of that muscle. When the lever is broken, the limb tends to fall inward and downward. I may say that further experience has confirmed my belief in the cor- rectness of the theory which I have formerly maintained as to the action of the serratus magnus and pectoralis minor in producing the displacement in these injuries. I have repeatedly demonstrated it to my classes at the Pennsylvania Hospital, and have shown the good re- sults of treatment based thereupon. 1 New Orleans Med. and Surg. Journal, Oct., 1885. 2 British Medical Journal, Nov. 20, 1886. 3 Ibid., March 10, 1888. 4 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, April 12, 1888. 5 Ibid. 6 International Journal of Surgery, August, 1890. 1 Brit. Med. Journal, Aug. 30, 1884.