INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 388 The second division of the trifacial nerve has also been attacked through the ptery go-maxillary region. In the method of Professors Braun and Lossen, an incision is made from a point 1 cm. above the outer can thus and 2 or 3 mm. from the outer margin of the orbit, downward and forward, to the lower border of the zygoma; another incision is made from the upper end of this, along the upper border of the zygomatic arch, to about the position of the tragus; the skin and subcutaneous tissue are then turned down, the temporal fascia is di- vided, and the zygoma is severed at both ends so that it, with the masseter muscle arising from it, can also be reflected downward; then the anterior border of the tendon of the temporal muscle, the fat and the internal maxillary artery, and a venous plexus, are drawn backward; the nerve is sought for as it passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure, drawn outward with a strabismus hook, and divided at the foramen rotundum. If it is desired, an incision may then be made over the in- fra-orbital foramen, and the nerve excised. The zygoma is then re- placed and fastened by periosteal sutures or by wiring. Tillmans, in five cases operated upon by this method, secured firm bony union, and no deformity remained. Third Division.—The inferior dental nerve may be divided or re- sected at the mental foramen, either by incising the mucous membrane of the lower lip or by making the incision through the integument. Neither of these procedures, however, gives satisfactory results. Exposure in the Inferior Dental Canal.—The inferior dental nerve, the largest of the three sensory branches of the third division of the fifth cranial nerve, may be exposed by turning up a flap from the inferior maxilla, and then trephining the bone; when the disc, consist- ing of the external layer of the maxilla, is removed, the nerve will be seen lying with its accompanying artery in the inferior dental canal, and a portion of the nerve is then resected. If the anterior wall of the canal is chiselled away for some distance, a much longer portion of the nerve can be removed, thus tending to prevent reunion of the ends. The nerve may also be reached before its entrance into the inferior dental canal, by attacking it from within, that is, through the mucous membrane of the mouth; secondly, behind the ramus of the jaw (Liicke, Sonnenburg), and thirdly, through the ramus of the maxilla. The intra-huccal method consists in making an incision through the mucous membrane and periosteum, one inch in length, along the inner aspect of the anterior border of the ramus of the inferior maxilla, the mouth being held open with a gag and the tongue drawn to the opposite side; the internal pterygoid is raised from the bone and the internal lateral ligament divided, the point where it is inserted, viz., the spine of Spix, or the lingula, having been previously recognized. The nerve is then freed from its accompanying vessels and a portion of it excised. To this operation various objections may be urged: there is but little room for the manipulations, only a small portion of the nerve can be removed, and hemorrhage from the inferior dental artery is difficult to check, even requiring in some cases ligation of the external carotid. The lingual branch of the fifth nerve may also be resected by thein- trabuccal method. An incision is made through the mucous membrane over the course of the nerve, which lies at a point corresponding to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a line drawn from the angle