FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. 411 in IS cases. He refers to Schede’s use of a similar method, but with a plate made of aluminium. He observes the strictest antiseptic pre- cautions, and employs a plaster-of-Paris splint to keep the limb im- movable. Good results Have been obtained by Halsted, of Baltimore, by the application of silver splints to the fragments, closing the wound over them, and allowing them to remain permanently in place. As to the general treatment of failure of union DelVaille' records good results from the administration of phosphide of zinc, i to ^ grain daily. He first experimented with it on animals, and then used it on eighteen patients, all of whom made exceptionally rapid recoveries. Stocks2 treated a boy aged 10, with an ununited fracture of the leg, operated on without success three years previously; he gave him for a month a diet of meat and milk, with strychnia and superphosphate of iron; another operation was then performed, and in three months perfect union was obtained. By Menard,3 a ten-per-cent, solution of chloride of zinc has been in- jected between the fragments of a tibia and fibula, ununited after five months of treatment, in a man aged 43; one month afterward, con- solidation was complete, and the patient was able to walk. Moore J speaks highly of glacial acetic acid, which he says has for many years past been used in cases of non-union at the Melbourne Hos- pital. Two cases have been reported in which portions of the femora of rab- bits have been transplanted successfully for the relief of ununited frac- tures of the bones of the forearm. In one, by McGill,5 a young man of 20 had non-union of the radius; an incision was made and thirteen pieces of the femur of a 6-weeks-old rabbit were inserted; on the tenth day the wound was examined and found almost healed ; on the fortieth the man was discharged with perfect union. The other case was re- corded by Sherwood;6 both bones were involved, and the forearm and hand were atrophied and useless. The ends of the fragments were ex- cised, and nine pieces of a rabbit’s femur were wedged in; some sup- puration ensued, and four pieces came away, but about four months afterward union was sound. Nothing is said as to the ultimate useful- ness of the hand. Brief reference may be made to an extraordinary attempt of Phelps7 to engraft the bone of a living dog’s leg directly into that of a boy, for the relief of an ununited fracture. The ends of the fragments were excised; the dog’s bone, separated, but still connected with its nutri- ent artery, was fastened in place, and boy and dog, bound together, were placed in bed. At the end of ten days the experiment was aban- doned as a failure. Fractures of the Bones of the Face. A case which came under my care in 1892 seems to me worthy of record here. A boy, aged 15, was brought in to the Pennsylvania Hospital, having sustained a “smash” of the face by the bursting of an 1 Lancet, Sept: 27, 1890. 2 Manchester Medical and Surgical Reports, 1870. 3 Revue de Chirurgie, 10 Mai, 1892. 4 Australian Med. Journal, Aug. 15, 1892. 5 Lancet, Oct. 26, 1889. 6 Med. Record, Sept. 13, 1890. 1 Med. Mirror, April, 1891.