235 TERATOMATA. intra-thoracic cases that of Godlee, in which the cavity existed in the apex of the right pleural cavity, and having suppurated w as t-aken for an empyema, and that of White, in which an adhesion had formed to the pericardium, are worthy of note. In both cases the patients ex- pectorated hairs at intervals. The usual seat for dermoid cysts over- lying the sternum is rather high up, over the manubrium, but they are occasionally seen lower down. In the median line of the abdomen they appear to be unknown except at the umbilicus, where two or three have been recorded. Guterbock operated upon one which had suppurated and formed a large cavity just inside of the umbilicus, and perhaps we may admit the cases of Longuet and Villar (quoted by Ledderhose), although it is possible that these were both only instances of umbilical concretion. Along the spine, dermoid cysts appear to be nearly as rare. Sutton figures a small dermoid which lay over two or three defective thoracic spines in a case of spina bifida occulta, and also one observed by Wild, which lay over the sacrum. The latter situation ought to furnish numerous der- moid cysts, because of the frequent occurrence of a congenital sinus in the skin at this point. But the most frequent situation for dermoid cysts of the sequestra- tion type is about the head, where so many of the developmental fold- ings of the ectoderm take place. Williams places 41.6 per cent, of all dermoids on the head, more than half of these being situated about the orbit; 35 per cent, in the ovary; 17.6 per cent, in the neck; and the rest scattering. Of the orbital dermoids, the majority are seated near the external angular process of the frontal bone. Occasionally cysts in this locality will lie a little farther away from the eye, or higher up, and they have been found (probably migrated) nearly over the centre of the eyebrow. The next most common situation is the internal angle of the eye, after that the side of the nose, over the glabella, and, finally, directly in the median line of the nose. In the three situations first named, it is readily understood that they occur in the course of the orbito-nasal fissure, between the maxillary process below, the frontal bone plate above, and the fronto-nasal process in the median line. The cysts which appear over the glabella may possibly take their origin in the shallow grooves which very early in foetal life go to form the olfac- tory organ. But inasmuch as the fronto-nasal plate is a median struc- ture, it is not easy to comprehend how any epithelial sequestration can take place over it, and pathologists are divided as to the origin of der- moids lying in the median line of the nose. The most probable ex- planation appears to be that of Bramann, who follows the description of the formation of the bridge of the nose given by Witzel, in attempt- ing to account for the rare deformity of a median cleft of the nose, found associated in a few cases with cleft palate. Witzel says that at a very early period there is a median depression in the fronto-nasal process, lying between two very slight elevations at its lower corners, the prominences which go to form the nostrils at a later period. Then from these prominences two little rounded ridges run upwards, making this central depression still more marked. As development goes on the prominences for the nostrils grow larger, the elevations running up from them on each side approach each other, the cartilaginous septum of the nose develops from the central grooved portion (this cartilage at first is