INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 374 the blood is effected, the first therapeutic indication is to prevent fur- ther absorption of the cause, that is, to treat the infection atrium.1 The advice given by Mr. Bellamy, in other respects excellent, should be altered to read “aseptic evacuation of pus, followed by rigid antiseptic methods in dressing.” Thorough curetting of abscesses resulting from lym- phangeitis and, after disinfection, packing with iodoform gauze, will often develop such healthy granulating surfaces that, in a short time after the packing has been removed, fusion of the surfaces will readily occur if they are maintained in contact by compresses. Lymphangeioma, etc.—In many instances these conditions are con- genital in origin, possibly the result of mechanical obstruction or block- ing of the lymph-current by inflammations arising during intra-uterine life. Those really of post-natal origin are mechanical obstructions due to thrombosis or cicatricial contraction following inflammation, to the pres- sure of tumors, or to the blocking of lymph-vessels by neoplastic growths (carcinoma, tubercle), or by the filaria sanguinis hominis. Treatment.—When circumscribed, removal by the knife; when col- lateral circulation can occur, in the diffused forms, much relief from the oedema may be secured by elevation, by the elastic bandage, and by mas- sage ; if stasis cannot be relieved, ligation of the main artery has often enough succeeded to render the operation justifiable, and even the ex- treme measure of amputation of a member may be warranted. Chyle Cysts. Chyle Cyst of the Neck.—An abstract of the history of the fol- lowing singular case is worthy of the consideration of surgeons, since it presents points of interest regarding diagnosis and treatment:— J. S., aged 57, healthy, never having been injured, noticed, one year before presenting himself for examination, a rounded, tense, painless swelling just above the right clavicle, which1 steadily grew until, when I showed him to my class in Ann Arbor, the whole right inferior carotid triangle was filled by a tense, globu- lar, pulsating mass, extending from the clavicle upward to a level with the angle of the jaw, from the middle of the sternal notch outward to the margin of the trapezius, being bounded on its median aspect by the trachea below, and above by the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, which passed over the swelling; the tumor projected far beyond the level of the clavicle. Neither the skin nor the superficial veins presented anything abnormal, and the only com- plaint made was of uneasiness from pressure upon the trachea. Suspecting a so-called hydrocele of the neck, a puncture was made with an exploring needle, which gave vent to such a peculiar fluid that I proceeded to aspirate before incising and draining. A chyle-like fluid to the amount of eighteen ounces was withdrawn, and, during all stages of the evacuation, presented a uni- form, very slightly rosy tint, which was more marked upon the surface; the tint apparently deepened upon exposure to the air, while a relatively large clot promptly formed. No trace of thickening remained after emptying this uni- locular cyst. The cavity rapidly refilled despite pressure, and twelve days later 1 The admirable results effected by attention to this advice upon both lymphangeitis and adenitis is well illustrated by the abstract of the history of two cases where corrosive subli- mate dressings were substituted for less efficient methods in septic wounds, followed by lym- phangeitis and adenitis. See Annals of Surgery, vol. iv., p. 429, from Le Progres Med., Aout, 1886.