477 ALBUMINOUS OSTEO-PERIOSTITIS. further infection, and may provoke reparative action to supply the tissue which has alredy been sacrificed. Disease of the Bones due to Disease of the Lung. It is a curious fact that diseases of the lungs are sometimes followed by a peculiar disease of the bones. Attention was first called formally to this by Marie, in 1890, who described a peculiar kind of deformity following diseases of the lung or pleura, accompanied by the production of pus. The characteristic of this disease is a singular enlargement of the bones, especially in the extremities. In many cases the appearance of a patient with this disorder is quite like that of patients suffering with acromegaly. Marie calls this disease “ osteo-arthropathie hyper- trophiante pneumiqueThe pathology of the disease is entirely un- known, and its treatment consists in that appropriate to the conditions which give rise to it. Albuminous Osteo-Periostitis. This form of disease of the bones was described in 1874 by Poncet and Ollier as a distinct affection; but observations made by many differ- ent surgeons since then indicate unmistakably that it does not deserve this distinction. Its lesions are not new or peculiar; they consist princi- pally in the pouring out, under the periosteum or near it in a bone, of a peculiar, viscid exudate, like synovial fluid, albuminous in character and containing a comparatively small quantity of phosphates. This description of albuminous periostitis fits perfect!}' well conditions in which the exciting causes are very unlike. Such effusions are seen, for example, after accidental traumatisms or amputations, and in the course of infectious or tuberculous osteo-myelitis. In many cases it has been found that the fluid has contained staphylococci. This form of effusion has also been found in traumatisms of the soft parts, the bone being entirely uninjured. In various disorders and injuries of the bones, the presence of an albuminous fluid is of some consequence as indicating a comparatively benign condition; but it is purely a con- comitant and not an independent disease.