770 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. stationary for another week and gradually subside. In rare instances a residuum of the vascular engorgement forms the basis of a goitre. When suppuration ensues, the general and local phenomena are those of suppuration elsewhere. The rapidity with which the presence of pus is manifested varies within wide limits. In the acutest forms agglutination of the overlying soft parts and perforation of the capsule ensue in from two to three weeks. Sloughing of the gland from excess of intra-capsular tension has been observed as early as the tenth day. When the “ dosage” of infection has been slight, as from the use of unclean instruments, weeks and months may pass before the abscess perforates the capsule. Such cases may assume from their inception a subacute or even chronic course. The rapidity with which pus is evacuated also depends on the depth of the abscess. The ways in which it may travel have already been mentioned. The spontaneous or operative evacuation of the abscess speedily leads, as a rule, to permanent closure by the granulation process. In the more subacute cases, the capsule of the abscess, or that of an entire lobe thickened by prolonged vascularity, and the presence of flabby granulations within, may for a long time or indefinitely prevent heal- ing. There remains an obstinate fistula leading to the abscess, or if closure does ensue, retention with its u^ual concomitants follows. The prognosis of thyroiditis depends largely on its cause. Always of considerable gravity in suppurative cases, it becomes very grave as a complication of puerperal infection, pyaemia, or diphtheria. When suppuration develops in a goitre which by its size and attachments has compressed the trachea or blood-vessels, the increased pressure may speedily cause death. Other causes of a fatal issue are acute sepsis, hemorrhage, and exhaustion from prolonged suppuration. According to Lebert, suppuration ensues in over sixty per cent., and twenty-five per cent, of all cases are fatal. The treatment of thyroiditis in its beginning must be directed toward the prevention of suppuration. Internally, the salicylates and large doses of saline cathartics may be administered. Externally, leeches may cut short the attack, and Brieger reports cases of diphtheritic thy- roiditis thus aborted. The continued use of ice-bags may delay or even prevent suppuration. Kocher recommends the interstitial injection of carbolic acid. W7lien pus is present operative interference is indicated. If the abscess is superficial, a free incision must be made and drainage secured. In deep-seated abscess aspiration may first be resorted to, lest the cutting through a thick wall of gland tissue should cause hem- orrhage which in the debilitated condition of the patient might prove fatal. Whether the abscess be superficial or deep, its evacuation will often be followed by bleeding profuse enough to demand tamponing the abscess cavity with gauze. When multiple abscesses exist they may generally be emptied through a single incision. In very acute cases suffocation may be threatened before an abscess has been formed. Tracheotomy must then be resorted to, and a can' nula of more than ordinary length must be employed. Excision of the abscess cavity, with the lobe of the gland in which it is contained, must occasionally be resorted to in chronic cases in which obstinate suppuration and recurrent hemorrhages threaten the life of the patient.