ABSCESSES AND ULCERS. 162 rhage, it is well after irrigation to pack the cavity firmly with strips of iodoform gauze, then applying a large gauze dressing with layers of bichloride cotton in the ordinary manner. As soon as the dressings have become soiled with discharge they are removed, and the gauze packing is also removed if it has become loose; hut it will often be found that this will remain in place for a number of days, and if the wound is aseptic it need not be withdrawn until it has become quite detached. When it is finally removed, the cavity should be gently irrigated with a bichloride solution, or with warm sterilized water, and should be again gently packed with strips of iodoform gauze and the external dressing applied as before. By this method of treatment the cavity of the abscess fills up with granulations. Injection of Iodoform and Glycerin.—Another plan consists, after first sterilizing the skin covering the abscess, in passing a narrow- bladed bistoury through the tissues until its point enters the cavity; before the knife is removed a grooved director is introduced along its blade as a guide, the knife is then withdrawn, and the contents are allowed to escape along the groove of the director, their evacuation being facilitated by gentle pressure from the outside. When the cavity is empty, it is washed out with a warm 1-2000 bichloride, or a 1-60 carbolic solution, introduced through a syringe the nozzle of which enters the small puncture in the skin. This fluid is allowed to escape by again passing the grooved director into the small puncture, and the cavity is then filled up with an iodoform and glycerin emulsion, 1-10, intro- duced by means of the syringe. The surface of the skin should next be thoroughly irrigated, and a small compress of iodoform gauze placed over the puncture, and held in position by a pad of bichloride gauze and cotton, with a bandage, or adhesive straps. Another method of using the iodoform emulsion consists in making a free incision into the abscess, irrigating its cavity with warm bichloride or carbolic solution, and then filling it with iodoform emulsion and bringing the edges of the incision together with sutures, applying a full antiseptic dressing. In many cases of chronic abscess, the removal of the contents is only one step toward securing healing; in cases arising from diseased bone, if it be pos- sible to remove the bone this should be done, even if very free and exten- sive incisions are required for the purpose. Antiseptic irrigation should then be practised, and free drainage should be secured by the intro- duction of drainage-tubes passed to the deepest portions of the cavity, which is packed with iodoform gauze, a large gauze dressing being ap- plied externally, and renewed as often as it becomes soiled. Ulcers. The treatment of ulcers differs little from that generally practised before the introduction of the antiseptic and aseptic methods of wound treatment, the same procedures as regards rest, mechanical support, and the use of constitutional remedies being employed, and the changes concerning only the treatment of the ulcerated surface itself. Healthy Ulcer.—This variety of ulcer has a tendency to rapid healing if the part upon which it is situated be kept at rest, and the