TUMOBS. 240 the tumor resemble in gross appearances myeloid sarcomata. Micro- scopically they are seen to be made up of alveoli lined with epithelium. Four different varieties of odontomes spring from the follicle. The true follicular odontome is often known as a dentigerous cyst. These cysts arise from retained teeth, the fluid representing that which is normally present in the tooth-follicle, although in very small amount. They usually contain an imperfect tooth, although this may be absent. The walls of the cyst may be very thick, or very thin—crepitating under pressure like a sarcoma of bone—and the tumors are occasionally of very large size. They are found in connection with the permanent teeth, and especially the molars. The fibrous odontome is formed by thickening of the fibrous sac of the tooth-follicle, which may be so marked as to make the odontome closely resemble a fibrous tumor, the enclosed tooth being overlooked because it is small or undeveloped. The fibrous tissue may he partly calcified. These tumors are usually mul- tiple, often to the number of four. It is supposed that rachitis favors this thickening of the tooth-sac. If these thickened sacs ossify, a mass of cementum is found surrounding the tooth, and thus the third variety of the follicular odontome is produced, the cementoma. These tumors are very common in the horse, where they may attain a large size. The fourth variety of these tumors is the compound follicular odontome, which is derived from the form last described by irregular ossification, the tumor then consisting of a sac enclosing numerous small mal formed teeth, containing all the dental tissues or cementum, or dentine alone, and the number sometimes being very great, even three or four hundred. Odontomes arising from t\\e papilla are called radicular tumors, and as the enamel has ceased to increase, they consist only of cementum and dentine. These tumors are rather rare except in the lower animals, and are very apt to suppurate and give the impression of advanced necrosis of the bone with sequestration. They are naturally attached to the root of the tooth from whose follicle they grow. Composite odontomes spring from the entire tooth-germ, and form hard tumors made up of a mass of enamel, dentine, and cementum. They are usually made up of the germs of two teeth fused together, hut so irregularly that it is impossible to distinguish them. These tumors grow sometimes to a considerable size, and like the last-men- tioned are usually mistaken for the results of necrosis. Like the dermoid cysts, odontomata are generally first noticed, or come to operation, in early adult life, although rather later than the dermoids. The diagnosis lias very seldom been made except in the case of the follicular cysts, and the tumors are generally mistaken for bone- sequestra, or exostoses, or fibrous or sarcomatous tumors. A careful study of the teeth, to ascertain whether any are missing, would proba- bly help to clear up the diagnosis. These tumors are said to be most common in the lower jaw, but Sutton thinks it probable that many so- called exostoses of the superior maxilla are in reality odontomata. Lipoma. Lipoma is one of the few varieties of tumor to which men are almost as liable as women, Gurlt making the proportion 1 to 1.5 and Stoll 1 to