792 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. the throat, or a sense of irritation is experienced in the naso-pharynx. An annoying sensation of contraction in the posterior nares was experi- enced by a young adult; this seemed to be due to the presence of an elongated fibrous band extending along the summit of the pharyngeal vault. In recent years aurists are holding these lymphoid growths of the pharynx responsible for a number of diseases and disturbances of the ear, notably chronic otitis media both simple and purulent. The exact relation between aural disease and the presence of lymphoid hyper- trophy has been a matter of discussion, but the fact has been clearly established that a large number of children suffering with enlarge- ment of the pharyngeal tonsil show a varying degree of deafness, no- tably the result of a chronic catarrh of the Eustachian tube, or middle ear. Some writers claim that the aural complication is the result of an impingement of the lymphoid tissue on the mouth of the Eustachian tube, preventing the proper ventilation of the aural cavity. In practice, however, we rarely, if ever, see the growth occluding the Eustachian orifice, and still, in many of these cases, aural disease is present. Others consider that the mere presence of the lymphoid hypertrophy in the vault interferes with the necessary renewal of air in the aural cavity, thus exciting aural disease, employing the same argument which is used to connect nasal hypertrophy with disease of the middle ear. Still others believe that aural disease is the result of a simultaneous catarrhal inflammation of the two regions, or of an extension of in- flammation from the naso-pharynx to the Eustachian tube and middle ear. It is a well-known fact that children with lymphoid hypertrophy of the nasal pharynx are especially prone to inflammation of the mucous membrane of this region. It is natural and in accordance with the history of catarrhal inflammation that the mucous mem- brane of the Eustachian tube should be involved through contiguity. A slight degree of deafness, with symptoms of Eustachian catarrh, may arise simply from a swelling of the mouth of the tube. In favor of this theory is the fact that deafness and the Eustachian symptoms are temporarily improved through simple treatment of the naso- pharyngeal space, with the necessary inflation of the tube, although the great body of the growth still remains. Chronic purulent catarrh of the middle ear may arise through great intensity of the inflamma- tory process, or in individuals specially prone to this form of inflam- mation. In the production of voice tones, both in speaking and singing, the importance of a clear naso-pharynx has been fully established, and the presence of this lymphoid hypertrophy in the vault exercises a pro- nounced and disturbing effect. The resonating quality of the voice will be more or less impaired according to the extent of the growflli, and, thus losing in a measure its tone, it will become dull and muffled. According to Loewenberg, in the speaking voice the resonating con- sonants N and M will be replaced by D and B. This marked effect can only occur, however, when the size of the growth entirely precludes the possibility of nasal respiration. In recent years the presence of the pharyngeal tonsil has been made responsible for many of the laryngeal disturbances of childhood. Laryngismus stridulus and false croup are claimed by many writers to