99 SEPTICAEMIA. while, on the other hand, cases with only slight local reaction, or none at all, may end fatally within a short time as a result of the general intoxication. I must not omit a certain form of septicaemia, which it is important to be familiar with, in forming a prognosis. This is the so-called recur- rent septicaemia, or tardy septic suppuration, where all the symptoms disappear, and the disease apparently comes to an end, but where after weeks, months, and sometimes years, an acute general intoxication starts from the old place of infection, and may then prove fatal. ■ As these cases are rather rare and interesting, I may briefly quote one under the care of Prof. Karl Gussenbauer, of Prague:— A healthy official, 36 years of age, had received two gun-shot wounds in his right instep in 1866. One of the bullets was extracted two weeks afterwards from the neighborhood of the external malleolus. The foot continued to suppu- rate for two years, and only healed after necrosed pieces of bone had been repeat- edly extracted. The sinuses closed in 1868. The man remained cured and healthy till the year 1877, when a sinus opened, and healed again after a short time, after expelling a small sequestrum. On the 18th of February, 1882, he was brought into the Clinic with symptoms of pyo-septhsemia. A week before, he had suddenly felt severe pains in the right foot, after a somewhat fatiguing walk. The whole foot soon became very much swollen, and a chill set in, followed by very violent fever. On the fifth day a sinus opened spontaneously, and offensive pus was evacuated. But this time the phlegmonous inflammation of the sur- rounding part did not subside upon the evacuation of the pus; the high fever also continued. The day before he came to the Clinic, the phlegmon had rapidly progressed, till it covered the whole dorsal surface of the foot; another chill en- sued, and the patient felt very weak. On his entrance, he was found to have a very considerable diffuse oedema of the entire right foot, the skin of a dusky red, partly purplish hue, and gangrenous around two suppurating openings over the second and third metatarsal bones. The patient showed the clinical picture of a .severe septlnemia. He was received late in the evening. When seen the next day his case seemed to be already hopeless. Pulse 120, temperature 40.4° C. (104 f° F.). Amputation of the lower leg was proposed to the patient, but he refused; thereupon multiple incisions were made, with energetic disinfection. These showed that there was extensive destruction in the subcutaneous and sub- fascial tissues, and necrotic bone, so that complete removal of the gangrenous por- tions seemed impossible without amputation. This treatment seemed to cause a remission of the fever—(the temperature sank from 40.4° C. (104f° F.) in the morning to 38.4° C. (101° F.) in the evening— but was not able to stop the progress of the septic phlegmon. The very next day, March 2, the patient again had an evening temperature of 40° C. (104° F.), which rose next morning to 40.2° C. (104-ilo F.) Meanwhile the symptoms of septic phlegmon with phlebitis had appeared in the lower leg. Another chill oc- curred; the patient, when left alone, lay in a sopor. Amputation was again rec- ommended, and this time the patient gave his consent. Amputation of the thigh was now necessary, and the limb was removed above the condyles of the femur. In the evening the temperature had. sunk to 37.6° C. (994° F.j and the patient was in good spirits. Next morning, however, it had again risen to 40.2° C. (104-|-0 F.) after the patient had had another chill during the night, and in the evening of the fifth day death ensued with a still higher temperature and in deep sopor. At the autopsy multiple purulent foci of softening were found in the lungs, swelling of the spleen, and colonies of micrococci in the cortices of the kidneys. Examination of the foot showed a large, irregularly-shaped fragment of a leaden bullet in a cavity filled with pus, and with bony walls formed from the bases of the second and third metatarsals.