ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. 180 Artificial respiration should he carefully performed by Sylvester’s or Kelly’s method,1 at the rate of from sixteen to twenty movements to the minute, and it should invariably be commenced by an expiratory effort,2 so as to avoid further absorption of the anaesthetic, or, if possible, the vapor should be sucked out of the lungs before inspiration is per- formed. Artificial respiration should be maintained for at least forty-five minutes, as patients have recovered after being apparently dead for an hour.3 During the attempt at restoration the respiratory tract should be maintained unobstructed as directed above. A dash of cold water, or better ether, on the abdomen and chest may cause reflex inspiration,4 as may the general application of the electric current to those surfaces.5 Other forms of irritation, and especially dilatation of the internal anal sphincter, may be successfully employed at times. The hypodermic use of strychnine and atropine, and, if the emergency be great, the use of ammonia by intravenous injection of the weaker watery solution (Aqua ammonite U. S. P.) into the leg, are very useful. Frictions and hot applications are also indicated. Syncope.—Syncope rarely occurs during etherization, but does some- times occur during chloroform inhalation, (a) In the first stage, it is suddenly manifested by fluttering or stopping of the pulse, extreme pallor, sudden wide dilatation of the pupils, and cessation of respira- tion. It is usually fatal, (b) In the later stage, there is usually more warning given, by disturbed respiration, pallor, weakened pulse, cessation of hemorrhage, and dilatation of the pupils. When syncope is threatened or has occurred, the surgeon should remove the inhaler, lower the head, and, if necessary, maintain artificial respiration as above described. Direct compression of the heart by pressing the hand deeply under the costal cartilages seems to have been efficient,6 and is easily performed during artificial respiration. Deep and rapid pressure in the precordial region has proven successful in several instances, with or without artificial respiration.7 Strychnine is probably the best stimu- lant to administer under these circumstances. Ether may be used hypodermically with advantage, at times, as may also whiskey, digi- talis, and ammonia, but if the circulation has stopped their employment appears useless. Nitrite of amyl is positively contra-indicated,8 except in the later stages of narcosis, or after great loss of blood, when a single whiff may do some good.6 Auto-transfusion, by elevating the limbs and applying constrictors for from three to five minutes, has been of use.10 Babroff 11 recommends very highly the injection of from 25 to 225 grammes of a 6-1000 saline solution into the subcutaneous tissues, as soon as any evidence of respiratory or cardiac embarrassment occurs. The greater the loss of blood or the anaemia, the larger the amount to be injected. Heat and sinapisms to theprecordium are useful. Punc- ture of the heart, as proposed by Watson,12 faradization and galvani- ’ British Medical Journal. 2 Murray-Aynsley, Annual of Univ. Med. Sciences, 1893. 8 Hare, Practical Therapeutics. 4 Munchener med. Woch., 1889; Medical Age, 1889. Hare, Practical Therapeutics. 6 Iliffe, British Medical Journal, 1892. 7 Konig, Berliner klin. Woch., 1892 ; Sinclair, British Medical Journal, 1892. 8 Babroff, Kirurgitcheskaia Latopis. 9 Hare, Practical Therapeutics ; Buxton, Anesthetics. 10 Babroff, Kirurgitcheskaia Latopis. 11 Ibid., 1891. 12 New York Med. Journal, 1887.