442 DISEASES OF BONES. or in rearranging the distribution of the material of which they are con- stituted. The constant flow of blood and lymph through the various channels and spaces of the bone acts upon the unvitalized portions as the movements of a stream, like the Nile, the Ganges, or the Missis- sippi, act upon the country through which it flows, making and un- making land by its deposits and its washings, cutting new channels and deserting old ones, and taking up or depositing material good or bad. As the result of these processes, two large divisions of osteitis have been described, that is, condensing osteitis and rarefying osteitis, the one brought about by a deposit of an unusual proportion of bone salts, with resulting increased density and generally hardness—eburnation; the other brought about by a solution of the bone tissue and removal of bone salts, which result in increased porosity and fragility—osteoporosis. But this is a purely mechanical distinction. So also is that which con- trasts caries with necrosis: caries being a form of disintegration like that of an ulcer in the soft tissues, proceeding by the destruction of very mi- nute portions at one time, perhaps cell after cell, while necrosis is a proc- cess in which a more or less considerable portion of tissue is deprived of its vitality at once. In bone, this results in the formation of a slough, which ia called, according to its situation, a sequestrum or an exfolia- tion. The sloughing process in soft tissues is sphacelus or gangrene. Modern terminology, however, ignores the mere results of pathologi- cal processes, in the matter of classification, and is constructed in ac- cordance with the processes or causes of disease, and not with the ap- pearance of their work. An etiological or ontological classification of diseases and disorders of the bones might be made as follows: A. Disorders of development (deformities). B. Disorders of nutrition (dystrophies). C. Disorders of physiological processes (diseases). A. Disorders of Development (Deformities). Disorders of development are purely mechanical variations from the normal standard, taking place before or after birth, and consisting in relative excess, diminution, or irregularity of development. The results of these disorders are: (1) deformities by excess, (2) deformities by deficiency, (3) deformities due to irregular (heterotopic) develop- ment. I shall not undertake any discussion of those diseases of the bones which come under the head of disorders of development, according to the classification proposed in this article. Deformities due to ante- natal defects of. development are of very large variety, and are syste- matically discussed in works on teratology. Indeed, it is very hard to do more than refer to them, because their varieties are so numerous and so remarkable. Deformities occurring after birth belong to a dif- ferent class of affections, and as the results of traumatism or pathologi- cal processes are considered elsewhere.