237 TERATOMATA. that intra-cranial dermoids have twice been operated upon successfully, by Turner and Hawkins. ' Tubular dermoids are those which arise from the persistence of some part of three of the numerous foetal canals which normally become ob- solete before birth, namely, the thyro-glossal duct, the post anal gut, and the branchial clefts. Dermoids in the last-mentioned situation have already been sufficiently dwelt upon under the head of branchial-cysts. The thyro-glossal duct is an offshoot from the pharynx in the anterior median line, which descends and gives origin, according to His, to the isthmus of the thyroid gland, its orifice being at the point indicated in later life by the foramen caecum of the tongue. This duct is first oc- cluded at its middle, where it passes through the hyoid bone. The lower portion, shut off from the orifice, sometimes swells up and forms a cyst. If this ruptures or is incised externally, a median cervical fistula will be produced, and Sutton accepts Marshall’s view that all so-called con- genital fistulae have originated in this way, and denies the claim of others that they originate like other cervical fistulae from a pre-cervical sinus or from branchial clefts. The upper portion of the duct, if shut off, is supposed to account for those dermoid cysts which are found in the floor of the mouth in the median line. Dermoid cysts in the floor of the mouth are not so rare as has been supposed. They have been carefully studied by Ozenne, Lannelongue, Barker, Monod, and Marcliant. Barker figures, as does Sutton, a tumor of this sort which projected from the mouth. About one in five or six lies laterally, between the genio-liyoglossus and the mylo- hyoid muscles, and Sutton supposes these lateral cysts to originate from the .second cervical branchial cleft. But they might originate from the lateral offshoots of the th}Tro-glossal duct observed by Bochdalek just above the hyoid bone. The tumors in the median line are generally attached to the hyoid bone, although occasionally they are found connected with the genoid tubercles of the inferior maxilla. They usually occur in young adults from 15 to 30 years of age, and are occasionally mistaken for ranula, but the diagnosis can he made by the free mobility of these tumors, their lack of adhesion to the mucous membrane—in fact they seem to develop in all cases a sort of bursa around the sac, so that they are not attached to any of the soft parts—and occasionally by the fact that they can be moulded and will retain the impressions made on their surface by the finger. According to Hochenegg the application of an icebag will render this last symptom easy of production. When their size be- comes inconvenient they should be removed by a careful dissection, if possible without opening the sac, either through the mouth or from the outside; the resulting scar is an objection to the latter method, and as primary union can generally be obtained by the mouth, that mode of approach should be given the preference. In connection with this duct undoubtedly originate those tumors of the tongue which have the structure of the thyroid gland. Perhaps too we can associate with it the mixed tumors resembling the mixed tumors of the parotid, occasionally found in this region. The post-anal gut is that portion of the intestinal canal which lies posterior to the point where the external depression which is afterwards to form the amis joins the bowel, for the obliteration of the neuren-