145 TREATMENT. incalculable as to the lack of confidence, natural to them, in the powers of medicine; but this will pass away in a comparatively short time, leaving those physicians who were not pulled along with enthusiasm, to share the humiliation with those who are in the habit of shouting loudest upon the least provocation. First, as to the prevention of tuberculosis in animals treated with tuberculin: all observers have shown that non-infected tissues may be- come tubercular during treatment, and that, in the rabbit, tuberculosis is not cured by the remedy (Baumgarten, Arloing, Rodet and Cono- mont, Popoff, Pfuhl, Gasparini and Mercati, Donitz, Ernst, Trudeau). Next, as to the chemical structure of tuberculin, Koch says that the active principle is not a toxalbumin; William Hunter has made a careful study of the fluid, and finds that it is made up of the following substances: (1) Albumoses—principally proto- and deutero-albumose, less hetero-albumose and, occasionally, traces of dys-albumose; (2) Alkaloidal substances, two of which can be obtained in the form of “hydrochlorate salts” of platinum compounds; (3) Extractives; (4) Mucin; (5) Inorganic salts; (6) Glycerin and coloring matter. He has succeeded in forming four modifications of the active princi- ple, all of which have to a greater or less degree one or more of the effects of tuberculin, and he finally comes to the following conclusions: Tuberculin owes its activity to at least three principles. Fever is absolutely unessential to its remedial action. Inflammation, too, is unnecessary, although it sometimes helps therapeutic action. The remedial substance and albumoses probably belong to the pro- teins, i.e., substances extracted from bacteria. To this most excellent observer 1 do we owe our knowledge of the chemical structure of tuberculin, expressed in terms conforming to our present knowledge of the albumins. If to this there be added the fact first pointed out by Korczynski, that all samples of tuberculin are not the same, the criticism may justly be offered from a scientific stand- point that pharmaceutical accuracy can hardly have been complied with when injections of tuberculin were made, and that empiricism was being indulged in, since it was impossible to state which cause produced the given effect. If we now examine the “specific effect upon tubercular processes” (Koch), as described before, many interesting things are found. That there is no specific effect has been shown by Roemer and verified by Buchner, in that chemical extracts from bacillus pyocyaneus and bacil- lus pneumoniae produce, practically, the same results as tuberculin. The changes themselves can be best summed up as has been done by Virchow, who shows that the remedy has very little effect upon tubercles, and that tubercles of mucous membranes seem to degene- rate more rapidly after its use, producing ulcers, the diseased tissue not being destroyed. Greater changes are observed in the surrounding tissue, necrosis being produced and resulting in the enlargement of cavities and in the perforation of intestinal ulcers. Ulcers, themselves, are cleaned. As regards its curative influence, Kluge and Burci have shown that tuberculin produces a positive chemotactive effect; Gaertner and Roemer (chemical extract of tubercle bacilli) that it is a lymphagogue. In 1 British Med. Journal, July 25. 1891. VOL. VII.—10