(809) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. BY RICHARD H. HARTE, M.D., DEMONSTRATOR OF OSTEOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; SURGEON TO THE PENN- SYLVANIA HOSPITAL AND TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL; CONSULTING SURGEON TO ST. MARY’S HOSPITAL AND TO ST. TIMOTHY’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Contusions of the Chest. Contusions of the Thoracic Wall.—By the peculiar mechanism of the chest, all forces received upon its walls are distributed over twenty or more elastic springs. By this means, and especially when the lungs are distended with air, an astonishing amount of resistance is offered to external violence, without any serious injury being sus- tained by the thoracic wall or by its contained viscera. As the result of its elasticity, especially upon its anterior portion, ecchymosis and circumscribed blood-tumors are seldom met with, as on the head and buttocks, although over the scapular region occasionally large sanguin- eous collections will be found as the result of direct impact. Another common form of chest contusion is by indirect force, where the body is caught and squeezed, or rolled, between two unyielding bodies, as be- tween a cart and a wall. In this class of contusions the external evidences of injury are negative, and in case of death an autopsy throws but little light upon the subject. The principal symptom is pain, aggravated by movements of respiration, coughing, or sneezing, and by pressure. Although the pain may be very severe, it is less than when the contusion is complicated by fracture of the ribs or by rupture of the viscera. In this class of injuries the pain is more liable to be persistent than in ordinary contusions, owing to the fact that not in- frequently at the articular ends of the ribs, both at the heads and tuber- cles, the ligaments are stretched, and synovitis of many of these small joints is set up, causing even slight respiratory motion to be accom- panied by pain. The most common injury to the chest is fracture of the ribs, the broken ends of which not infrequently wound some of the deeper struc- tures. Much of the disability which follows what are regarded as simple contusions of the chest is really due to a fracture of one or more ribs which has not been recognized, the diagnosis being often much more difficult than might be supposed, from the fragments being held on both sides by the unyielding chest-wall and intimately attached muscles.