119 INSECT-STINGS. Urticaria of a severe type has been noted by Cobleigh 1 as a result of bee-stings. A more serious result from a wasp-sting is reported by Prudden.2 A man, aged 63, was stung on the finger in August; swell- ing persisted, and a tumor developed occupying the last two phalanges; this was removed by amputation in December, and was found to be a spindle-celled and round-celled sarcoma. A number of cases of spider-bite have been recorded. Ramsdell3 re- ports ten, none of which were fatal; Carhart,4 two. Wade 5 gives a case of spider-bite of the scrotum, in which very grave symptoms (rest- lessness, delirium, pain in back and legs, numbness and tingling in ex- tremities, dyspnoea, slow pulse, and incoherent speech) were present, and great depression lasted for ten days. He mentions two other in- stances, in one of which recovery took place in a week, in the other not for a month. A very similar case, occurring in his own person, has been reported by Lewis.0 In another, recorded by Tompkins,7 the pa- tient was a woman; she nursed her child, and it became very ill, but both recovered. As to the treatment of these cases, Carhart used morphia and permanganate of potassium hypodermically; Wade gave morphia and atropine hypodermically, and bromide of potassium and carbonate of ammonium internally. Tompkins relied upon whiskey, quinine, and nux vomica, with ammonia locally. It is stated 8 that a death occurred from the bite of the “katipo,” a brown spider with red spots; and that Cockburn has reported a dozen cases of this kind treated successfully by the internal administration of strychnia. Another case of the bite of this insect, in a boy aged 5, is recorded by Ross;9 the sting was inflicted on the neck, behind the ear, and the symptoms, at first grave, passed off in a week's time. The katipo (Latrodectus mactans, verecundus, or scelio) is said to be very common in New Zealand. In a paper by Wilson 0 on poisoning by the bite of the southern spider, a description is quoted from the Encyclo- pedia Britannica, by which it would appear that this insect has a poi- son-apparatus very like that of the rattlesnake. A spider-bite on the chin is said 11 to have caused the death of a prominent official in South Carolina by giving rise to erysipelas; but there is nothing to show that the nature of the poison had any special significance. A case of tarantula bite is reported by Wrenn;12 the patient, a girl a little over three years old, was stung in the groin in the evening, and died in a convulsion at 1 P.M., the next day. Fuller13 states that he has twice seen cases of this kind in men engaged in unloading cargoes of bananas. Both patients recovered. The late Professor Leidy said 14 that according to a letter received by him from Dr. Gonzalez of Durango, Mex., scorpions abound in that district, and their sting is frequently fatal, especially in children, who I Cincinnati Med. News, Oct., 1884. 2 Medical Record, Feb. 21, 1885. 3 Trans, of Texas State Med. Assoc., March, 1885. 4 Texas Courier-Record of Medicine, Feb., 1889. 6 Southern California Practitioner, Aug., 1889. 6 North Carolina Med. Journal, Oct., 1894. 1 Med. Bulletin, Sept., 1884. 8 Lancet (Australian Correspondence), June 13, 1891. 9 Australasian Medical Gazette, April, 1891. 10 Trans. Southern Surg. and Gynasc. Assoc., vol. v., 1893. II Med. News, Sept. 15, 1883. 12 Occidental Med. Times, July, 1890. 13 Med. Record, Aug. 2, 1884! 14 Trans, of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, 1886.