830 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. from the third rib a little beyond the anterior axillary fold downward and in- ward to the sixth costal cartilage midway between its angle and its sternal end. The circumference of the organ may be defined by connecting together the ex- tremities of all the diameters. When the arm is elevated, as for an operation, the nipple in a nullipara is placed opposite the fourth rib or interspace, and only about one inch within the axillary border of the pectoralis major, thus showing that the extent to which the breast overlaps the muscle is very considerable. The level of the breasts varies somewhat according to the configuration of the chest—thus tall women generally possess a low bust, while short, broad-chested women have usually a high bust. “ The inner hemisphere rests almost entirely on the pectoralis major; at its lower part it extends beyond the lower edge of this muscle, and slightly overlies the aponeurosis of the external oblique of the abdomen. The outer hemisphere has less simple relations, and must be dealt with in segments. The upper half of its upper quadrant rests on the greater pectoral, on the edge of the lesser pectoral, and, for a slight extent, on the serratus magnus, upon which, and under cover of the pectoralis, it extends upward into the axilla as high as to the third rib. Spence was in the habit of referring to this prolongation as the ‘axillary tail’ of the mamma. The circumference of this segment crosses the edge of the pecto- ralis major at the level of the third rib—that is, just where the muscle leaves the chest-wall to form the anterior axillary fold. The lower half of the upper quad- rant, and the upper half of the lower quadrant, rest almost entirely on the serra- tus, with the exception of a small area adjacent to the nipple, which overlies the pectoralis major. The lower half of the lower quadrant has relation to the digi- tations of the serratus and external oblique which arise from the fifth and sixth ribs, and the part near the nipple lies on the pectoralis major. It will thus be seen that about one-third of the whole mamma lies inferior and external to the axillary border of the pectoralis major. Of this portion the upper half overlies the lower part of the inner wall of the axilla, and is separated from its contents only by the axillary fascia, which is here very fatty, so that the lymphatic glands lying embedded in it appear to be in direct contact with the breast.” Heidenhain, quoted by Dennis,’ at the German Congress of Surgeons in Berlin, in 1890, pointed out the fact that the ligaments of the breast were often surrounded hy projections of the parenchyma of the gland and might contain cancer cells. This is true of the so-called ligaments of Sir Astley Cooper as well as of those which are retro-mammary, and which bind the breast to the fascia. Stiles has demonstrated the fact that, hy treating the breast with nitric acid, the tissues may be so modified that macroscopic changes are produced which permit the constituents of the gland to be seen in marked contrast with each other. This method, described under the operative treatment of mammary cancer, enables one to see the outlying bound- aries of the breast, its relations to the skin and deep fascia, and the manner and extent of cancerous infiltrations. Peripheral processes 2 “springing from the anterior surface of the breast appear as triangular, tooth-like processes with fibrous prolongations (‘ligaments’ of Cooper) passing from their apices to the corium. The parenchyma is pro- longed into these processes, and in thin women reaches almost up to the corium. It follows, therefore, that the surgeon must either sacrifice a large amount of skin, or keep so close to it in dissecting it off the mamma as to run some risk of sloughing.” . . . Posteriorly the microscope “ reveals the presence of outlying gland lobules, extending from the corpus mammse into the retro-mammary tissue, up to and be- 1 Trans. Am. Surg. Assoc., vol. ix., p. 220 et seq. 2 Stiles, loc. cit.