779 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. Operations for Goitre.—The operations to be considered are: (1) Partial extirpation of one lobe. (2) Intra-capsular enucleation. (3) Evacuation, or evidement, of Koclier. (4) Resection or amputation. (5) Ligation of the afferent arteries. (1) Extirpation.—An ample incision is made either in the median line or along the inner border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, from the jugulum to the cricoid cartilage. The median incision may be curved outward (Kocher's method) for a varying distance over the bor- der of the muscle. Superficial veins are avoided or divided between double ligatures. The deep fascia is next divided along the entire length of the external incision, and all muscles presenting over the face of the tumor are treated likewise. The sterno-hyoid, sterno-tbyroid, omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid must be held aside or divided. The superior thyroid artery as well as the veins in its immediate proximity are now sought for, isolated, and ligated. Next the division of the ex- ternal capsule of the gland is proceeded with, and by blunt dissection this is stripped off the tumor and the latter is turned out of its bed, working from above downward. Gradually the position of the inferior thyroid artery is approached ; it is to be isolated with its accompanying vein, and ligated as far outside of the tumor as possible, taking care in this manner not to include the recurrent laryngeal nerve. By blunt dissec- tion the isthmus is now lifted from the trachea and included in two or more ligatures, when the tumor, en masse, is removed; it is perhaps better to cut through the isthmus and secure separately any bleeding vessels (Tillmann). (2) Enucleation (Sorin's Operation).—This owes its origin to the nodular character of many goitres, and to the fact that these nodules have a distinct though often very thin capsule surrounding them. The operation is begun by laying hare the tumor just as in extirpation. Instead of ligating the vessels, however, the individual nodules are now sought out. It is important in doing this to thoroughly recognize the capsule of the nodule; in the case of those which are superficially situ- ated this is easy, hut it is often necessary to cut through a layer of vascular parench}7ma before the capsule is reached. The capsule, hav- ing been recognized by its grayish tint, is carefully cut through and the nodule shelled out. The hemorrhage during this operation is not great unless a thick layer of gland tissue he cut through in order to reach the nodule, and even in this case it is not usually excessive. The chief merit of this operation lies, of course, in its avoiding the necessity of ligating the thyroid arteries and veins, and in its placing the recurrent laryngeal nerve beyond jeopardy. (3) Evidement or Evacuation (Kocher's Method).—This differs from enucleation, as just described, principally in being more rapid of execu- tion. Instead of carefully isolating the capsule of the nodule, it is at once bisected with the knife, when the two halves are emptied with finger and scoop, or curette. It is, like enucleation, indicated only in cases of nodular goitre. (4) Resection or Amputation.—It is evident that any quantity of thyroid tissue may be cut away by the use of ligatures en masse, or, as was formerly practised, by the thermo-cautery. It was really on this principle that Mikulicz developed into a method the plan of so-called “resection,” although it is said to have previously been done by others.