TUMORS OF THE BRAIN. 609 day-time, and inability to hold the attention to any subject for any length of time. These conditions Starr 1 has shown to be present in one-half of the 23 cases which he has studied. In addition to this, the ordinary symptoms of brain tumor will be present, and as the tumor grows in size, while the mental dulness may gradually become more marked, there will be after a time, from the remote pressure, a slight paresis of the muscles supplied by that part of the motor area which receives the pressure, and this will gradually deepen into paralysis as the tumor becomes larger. This late and increasing paresis and paralsyis following such slowing of the intellect- ual powers, is of great value as indicating tumor of the frontal lobe and its steady growth. Loss of smell from pressure on the olfactory bulb or nerve, and without nasal obstruction to account for it, is also of much value. Each nostril should be tested separately, as only one nerve or bulb may be compressed. Tumors of the Cerebellum.—The general symptoms of brain tumor are not only present, but are apt to be developed with more than usual rapidity. The reason for this is thought to be that as the tumor is situated beneath the tightly stretched tentorium eerebelli, the pressure is greater and is exerted directly upon the veins of Galen and the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. This is followed by an internal hy- drocephalus. with rapidly developed choked disc and blindness. The headache is especially severe, and sometimes is almost the only symp- tom complained of. It may be general, sometimes even frontal, but occasionally is occipital. Tenderness to percussion over the occiput is however, a valuable sign. The knee-jerks are usually diminished in cerebellar tumor, but are exaggerated in tumors of the pons (Jacobi). The most valuable symptom, however, of cerebellar tumor is the cere- bellar vertigo or staggering. This is apt to be markedly and persistently toward one side. This symptom indicates pressure on the middle lobe of the cerebellum, or its direct involvement by the tumor. If it occurs early in the disease, the tumor is probably situated in the middle lobe; if later, it is the result of pressure upon or an extension into the middle lobe. In an analysis of 20 cases of unilateral staggering, Starr has noted that in 16 cases the patient staggered toward the side opposite to the lesion, and in 1 cases toward the same side as the lesion. There is also not uncommonly a tendency to fall backward. If the symptoms already given do not enable us to decide on which side of the cerebellum the tumor is, we should note the effects on the cranial nerves, such as strabismus, facial or lingual anaesthesia, advance or retraction of the head. These usually bear first on the side of the tumor which crowds its side of the cerebellum down upon the base of the brain, thus pressing on the nerves, or pushes the cerebellum to one side and stretches them. Paralysis of one fourth nerve, though difficult to detect, is of espe- cial value, as it always occurs on the same .side as the tumor (Starr). Whether the tumor is cortical or subcortical is at present exceedingly difficult to diagnosticate. Possibly tenderness to pressure or percussion over the area of the tumor, a local rise of temperature, and the absence of anaesthesia may indicate its position. Whether the tumor is multiple or single is also somewhat difficult 1 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, April, 1884. VOL. VII.— 39