461 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BONES. tation of tlie strepto-bacilli of Dor is found in Fig. 1617. The tubercu- losis bacilli of Courmont are seen in Fig. 1618. The classification adopted in this article would lead us to call all forms of tuberculosis unassociated with the bacillus tuberculosis, “pseudo-tuberculosis.” In general, it may be said that the theory that tuberculosis in bone—as elsewhere— is a parasitic disease associated with the presence of the bacillus tubercu- losis of Koch, rests upon a very large mass of clinical and experimental observations; although fairness re- quires the admission that no clinician is so experienced or skilful that he can say with certainty that a given disease of the bones, presenting typi- cal features of what is called tuber- culosis, and clinically entitled to this designation, will, on the most dili- gent search, supply to the bacteri- ologist under the microscope, or on culture media, a single bacillus of Koch. A correct understanding of these cases will doubtless come in time; for the present, it may be said that—as far as the patient is con- cerned—they are precisely like the cases of tuberculosis with bacilli, and that pathologists who believe in the specific character of tuberculo- sis assume that, in these cases, the bacilli are present in small numbers, or in the spore stage, or have been present at the outset of the disease. Fig. 1618. Culture of Bacillus Tuberculosis of Courmont. (Arloing.) Fig. 1619. Pathology.—In studying the pathology of tuberculosis of the bones it must always be remembered that many other bacteria besides the bacillus tuberculosis are found mixed with the products of inflam- mation and disintegration of the tissues; also, that the bacilli of tuberculosis are hardly ever found in the old products of inflammation— caseous debris, or the contents of abscess- cavities. Tuberculosis of the bones is peculiarly a disease of the spongy tissue, and it especially affects bones in which this tissue is conspicu- ous, as for example the vertebrse, the tibia, the femur, and the humerus. In contrast to osteomyelitis it attacks the epiphyses rather than the shafts, or the juxta-epiphyseal re- gions. This, it must be remembered, is in general; there are exceptions to the rule. In situation, tubercles may be deposited immediately beloAv the articular cartilage, or immediately below the perichondrium or periosteum, or in the central portion of the epiphysis, or partly in the epiphysis and partly in the diaphysis, as seen in Fig. 1619. Latent Circumscribed Tubercle of Epiphysis and Diaphysis, Discov- ered only after Section of the Head and Neck of Femur. (Gangolphe.)