INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 368 The entire absence of any such thrombus has beeen suggested as a cause of the rapid spread in certain hyper-acute cases, a clot acting for a time as an obstacle to the further progress of the disease. The possibility of infected lymphatic emboli becoming a cause of sec- ondary pyfemic deposits must not be overlooked. The same germs which initiated the primary suppurative focus are found enclosed in the lymph- thrombus. The endothelial lining of the vessels has been described as completely preserved,1 or as at first thickened, then desquamating in patches, and finally disappearing throughout the extent of the diseased portion of vessel.2 The vessel-walls are thickened from infiltration with round-cells, and a similar slighter infiltration is detectable around the capillaries. When suppuration occurs, the usual changes take place both in the thrombus, in the altered wall, and in the perivascular infil- trate. In all “ lymphatic abscesses” micro-organisms are invariably found, the suppuration resulting from either a simple or a “mixed in- fection,” when more than one form of germ is present; the bacillus coli communis even has been detected as the sole pyogenic organism. Superficial wounds involving the complex plexuses of the deeper epi- dermic layers, those of the true derm or the subcutaneous tissues, are most apt to give rise to lympliangeitis. Although nearly always fol- lowing a wound, lympliangeitis may occur without any visible lesion of the skin, but Verneuil contends that this results from the “interstitial auto-infection” produced by germs present in the uninjured skin (Staphy- lococcus epidermidis albus of Welch?). Still further, Jouet3 points out that sometimes many days or weeks after cicatrization of the wound which gave entrance to the infective organisms, a lympliangeitis may commence, going on to enlargement of the neighboring glands or even to suppuration (lymphangites tardives). Simple lympliangeitis may also occur around neoplasms, the avenues for the entrance of the ordi- nary micro-organisms being afforded by lesions of the tumor, the in- flammation resulting from these and not from infection by the tumor elements. Skin diseases frequently give rise to attacks of lympliangeitis, but this affection rarely originates in any but one of the suppurative forms. The environment and the habits of the patient exercise a marked in- fluence upon the initiation of the disease, and upon the supervention of the graver accidents, such as suppuration or gangrene. Diabetes is supposed to exercise much influence in this direction, but it is very doubtful whether this disease especially predisposes to inflam- mation of the lymphatics. Chronic alcoholism and overwork certainly appear to favor the occurrence of the graver forms. Unfavorable hygienic surroundings such as overcrowding, dampness, insufficient food, overwork, and lack of cleanliness unquestionably ex- plain how overlooked or trivial abrasions may be sufficient to give en- trance to micro-organisms in such numbers of cases, commencing at or about the same time, as to give rise to the idea that lympliangeitis may be epidemic.4 What has already been said will serve as introduction to the following paragraphs. The differing results from the same poison are to be explained by the 1 Ibid. 2 Duplay et Reclus, Traite de Chirurgie, tome i., p. 651. 8 Ibid., p. 649. 4 Ibid., p. 650: