285 CARCINOMA. radical operations, and perhaps we may yet be able to make our diag- nosis earlier than at present. The attempt should certainly be made to remove the diseased mass completely whenever the surgeon is fortu- nate enough to find a tumor free from adhesions and glandular in- volvement. For all other cases the operations of gastro-enterostomy and entero-enterostoiny are indicated, and with improved technique and increasing readiness to undertake these operations before the patient is worn out by suffering, far better results will be achieved in the future. Carcinoma of the Rectum.—Lovinsohn, reporting 110 cases of cancer of the rectum from Czerny’s clinic, tries to prove that hemor- rhoids are one of the causes of that disease, but as they were present in only seventeen per cent, of his cases, the argument is not very strong when we take into consideration the frequency with which they occur. Williams, however, found seventeen cases of hemorrhoids in forty-two cases of rectal cancer in which the etiology was noted. There were twice as many men as women among Czerny’s patients, but Williams, in sixty-four English cases, found the sexes represented equally. It is interesting to note that of twenty-seven autopsies Williams found no case in which there was more than one part of the rectum attacked. Metastasis occurred in the liver, as was to be expected, in twelve out of the fourteen cases in which it was found; while the lung and pleura were attacked in seven cases, the kidney in two, and the vertebrm, spleen, ovary, and breast each in one. I have analyzed reports on the results of treatment of rectal cancer from various clinics, which give a total of 420 operations with a mor- tality of 15.5 per cent. It would be desirable to completely separate the operations done through the perineum from those in which the sacrum was attacked, but I have been unable to do this satisfactorily, owing to the manner in which the two methods have been confused in the re- ports. For a careful' study of their mortality and their results, operations on the rectum should be classified under a double division, first as to the part of the bowel removed, second as to the mode of reaching the seat of disease, for both of these points are important. It manifestly makes a great difference whether the entire circumference of the bowel is removed, or only a part, and whether the excision is made high up without affecting the anus, as in resection, or whether it removes the entire lower segment, as in amputation. But there are not as yet enough cases available for a complete study of this kind. As to the mode of exposure, the decision of the question as to the value of those methods of operation which divide the sacrum is most important. The method advocated by Kocher, of making a posterior incision from the anus to the base of the coccyx and removing this bone, simply amounts to a prolongation of the customary incision, and does not complicate the ordinary perineal operation sufficiently to require separate considera- tion. But the true sacral methods add an extensive injury to the bone, with all the increased dangers of prolonged operation, sepsis, and hem- orrhage, and on the other hand they bring within the scope of the operation many cases of extensive disease which would not otherwise be attacked; consequently it is natural to expect, with these methods, a higher death-rate and a greater percentage of relapses. Czerny in