892 HERNIA. tion for the cure of hernia following the incision of laparotomy, the same method would suffice. In one of my cases the recti mus- cles, during violent straining at parturition, were split apart from a point three inches below the xiphoid cartilage to within an equal distance of the pubis. At least two-thirds of the intestinal contents were prolapsed into this enormous hernia. An elliptical incision throughout the extent of the tumor was made, and closure was effected by silk sutures, following the method described for umbilical hernia. A perfect cure was effected. In diaphragmatic hernia the diagnosis must be based upon the symp- toms of obstruction. Pleuritis will be present in a varying degree. When this accident is suspected, and symptoms of obstruction are pres- ent, it is imperative to make a median incision below the xiphoid carti- lage, when by exploration with the hand the hernia may be reduced by traction, with or without dilatation of the opening in the diaphragm. The prognosis in these cases is unfavorable if operative interference is delayed. The recognition of gluteal hernia is also difficult. If with the symptoms of obstruction there is pain in the region of the sciatic notch, or in the distribution of the gluteal or sciatic nerves, and increased by direct pressure, the presence of gluteal hernia may be suspected. If a tumor can be made out, the diagnosis is still more positive. To locate the notch, place the patient on the belly and hold the leg perfectly straight, with the toes pointing directly downward. A line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the upper surface of the great trochanter will cross over the foramen. The incision should be free, the fibres of the gluteal muscles being separated by the finger. The vessels should be located before the con- striction is divided. Obturator hernia may be present without any appreciable tumor. It may be recognized by digital exploration through the rectum or vagina. Pressure upon the obturator nerve may produce pain in the hip or knee. If the symptoms of obstruction are present, the hand should he introduced through an incision in the linea alba, when, by careful exploration of the pelvis, the character of the lesion can be de- termined. In an effort at reduction by traction from within, the thigh should be rotated outward to relax the obturator muscle. If necessary an incision may be made immediately over the foramen, when the con- striction may be divided from below. When the fibres of the pectineus muscle are divided, the tumor will be encountered. Lumbar, vaginal, and pudendal hernise do not demand especial con- sideration. The diagnosis will depend upon the appearance of the tumor, with the symptoms of strangulation when the constriction is sufficient. The return of the mass which follows prolapsus of the uterus into the vagina, may be effected by direct reposition of the uterus, or by conjoined manipulation with one hand introduced through an opening in the linea alba. Hernia in Children should be treated in the main as advised for adults. On account of the inability of children to control themselves, a diagnosis is attended with some difficulty and is, as a rule, determined by the impulse imparted to the hernial mass as the child struggles and