DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 908 A few years ago the danger of wounding the peritoneum in excision of a rectal growth was considered a contra-indication to the operation; hut with Kraske’s incision, or its modifications, the peritoneum is freely incised, the rectum in its upper part is freed from all its attachments, and after the removal of the diseased portion the upper end is stitched to the lower, or perhaps drawn backward and stitched to the skin of the incision to make a new anus in the sacral region. In the earlier cases the peritoneal opening was stuffed with iodoform gauze, hut now the cut edges of the membrane are stitched to the serous surface of the bowels, in order to shut off the cavity from any possible contamina- tion from the wound. Comparison of Operative Methods. Although by Kraske’s method and its various modifications we can now remove more extensive disease than before, that is not its chief advantage. Its main value lies in the fact that it enables us to remove a class of growths not before removable on account of their distance from the anus, rather than on account of their magnitude and extent. To a conservative operator it seemed that too much was often done before Kraske made it possible to do more. But a growth which would have been deemed suitable for removal if within reach by a perineal incision, was left to its own course when it was four or five inches up the bowel on account of the gravity of the operation. Now, if the growth he a proper one for extirpation, it should be removed whether two inches or six from the anus, and this the dorsal incision and removal of part of the sacrum render possible without increased danger. Unfortunately the surgeon sees few cancers of the rectum which invite removal. Generally they have involved too much tissue around the gut, and instead of extirpating a rectum the operation becomes one of extirpating the peri-rectal cellular tissue and lymphatics. This no incision and no manual possibility of performance has yet proved to be good surgery. It is true that we can do it. We may take out prostate, base of the bladder, rectum, and masses of cellular tissue, and the patient may survive; but it is yet to be proved that such surgery upon the whole tends to the prolongation of life. It would be curious if we were to travel a second time over the same ground in this operation of excision of cancer of the rectum. After once being put before the profession it was almost abandoned,- simply because the cases proper for its performance were not properly selected, and it came into bad repute. It was again revived, and has been car- ried further than before, and again the reaction has set in, since we see that because it is possible to remove much it may not be good surgery to do so. Extirpation is now, as it was not years ago, always in competition with colotomy in prolonging life. In extirpation we strive for radical cure, which we get in a very small proportion of cases, and these gen- erally easily known before the operation is undertaken. In colotomy we abandon the hope of radical cure and work simply for length of days and relief of pain, and in the great majority of cases we accom- plish much more than by extirpation.