SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 340 the scalp it gives an appearance closely resembling that produced by seborrhcea sicca, with the exception that the hairs do not show a ten- dency to fall as in that disease. The parts of the face most liable to attack are the creases around the nostrils and lips, the temples, and the inner surface of the concha of the ear. The course of the disease is slow as a rule, with, however, occasional acute exacerbations, during which considerable areas may rapidly become involved. The eruption is developed symmetrically in its usual sites. Pathology.—According to Bowen, Bobinson, and other dermatolo- gists, the change in the skin consists in a “ keratinization of the epi- thelial lining of the ducts of the pilo-sehaceous conduit. ” This harden- ing of the tissues, as it progresses, gives rise to the formation of the horny masses. Between the stratum granulosum and the rete are de- veloped numerous small roundish bodies containing what are supposed to be nuclei and nucleoli; these are the so-called psorosperms. The pathology is by no means accurately determined as yet, a sufficient number of cases not having been reported. Diagnosis.—From molluscum contagiosum it may he distinguished by its greater generalization, and by the absence of the characteristic enu- cleable mass of the latter disease, containing the molluscous bodies. Then, too, the base of the papule is pearly white in molluscum conta- giosum, while it is dirty-red in color in the disease in question. In the later stage the two diseases are quite distinct. From pityriasis rubra pilaris it may be distinguished by the presence in that disease of the typical, isolated, scale-capped papule pierced by the hairy filament. Prognosis.—This is bad as regards a cure. The disease progresses steadily, and seems to be but little influenced by medication. As a rule, the general health is not seriously affected. Treatment.—-This should consist of cleanliness, with sliampooings and soft-soap inunctions, followed hv the application of drying and absorbing dusting powders, such as boric or salicylic acid. - If the parasitic theory of the causation of the disease he accepted, parasiticides should be em- ployed. These would include salves of iodoform or dermatol, baths of sulphide of potassium and other sulphur-containing waters, and in ad- vanced cases cauterization with chloride of zinc.