CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 5 tion of the vessel walls is at all altered, and which, on the other hand, is not so powerful as to bring about the death of the vessels, and these causes may be classed under three principal heads as traumatic, toxic, and infective. The point that especially distinguishes inflammation from active or passive hypersemia is certainly the exudation. What is especially owed to Cohnheim is the demonstration that it is only the vessel wall which is responsible for the whole series of events in in- flammation. He considers it evident that this is not due to an action on the blood, because the blood is constantly in motion, and can never be more than momentarily exposed to the local action; and the vaso- motor nerves may also be excluded, since the fact that the vessels are wont under the influenc,e of various agents to dilate very much more than is ever the case in paralysis of the vaso-constrictors, or in hyper- esthesia of the vaso-dilators, seems to weigh against their taking part in the process. Besides, all the described effects set in in pre- cisely the same way, and with equal prominence, in parts deprived of all connection with the central system. Finally, it is not an action or reaction of the tissues surrounding the vessels, for no alterations are observed in the latter, except at most such as are of a deleterious char- acter, as for example, coagulation or rupture of the muscle fibres. “ We are therefore compelled by exclusion to come back to the vessel walls, as the central originating focus. According to this view, there- fore, we have had to deal with a molecular change of the vessel walls, whose highest degree involves the death of the latter, but whose slighter degrees, on the other hand, call forth a certain typical series of abnormal events in connection with the motion of the blood and the transudation. The sum total of these events, together with their consequences, have been for ages comprised and known under the name of inflammation.” Causes op Inflammation. Notwithstanding the fact that in Prof. Van Buren’s article in Vol. I., the causes and definitions of inflammation, as they are usually thought of, are very fully considered; and also notwithstanding the fact that in the present article inflammation is considered from a differ- ent point of view from the usual one, a brief summary of the com- monly described causes will not be out of place here. Considering inflammation, therefore, as merely a symptom of the effect of some preceding agent, its causes may be looked, upon as arising from (1) mechanical violence; (ff) irritant or destructive chemical action; (3) poisonous infection, including, besides bacterial action, such things as venom of serpents, etc. There are, of course, both predis- posing and exciting causes aiding the appearance of inflammation, and among the first, we may include a defective nerve supply, the period of life, and the habit of body and climate. Among the second, the ex- citing causes, there is, as Van Buren says, strictly speaking but one cause, and that is an irritation of the living tissues by some agent that is called an irritant. But these irritants are necessarily very numer- ous, and among them must be included cold, or sudden chilling of the body (although it is doubtful by the light of our newer knowledge whether this is not one of the predisposing causes, and not a true ex-