279 CARCINOMA. was noted, there was more than one focus in five, although even in these it had begun in one spot. Smoking has always been looked upon as a prime cause of cancer of the lip, but while Williams found among twenty-six patients sixteen ex- treme smokers and eight moderate smokers, with only two who did not smoke at all, and Worner found fifty-one pipe-smokers in sixty-nine, on the other hand Rapok found tobacco .used in only twenty-five out of fifty-four cases. Partsch and Worner indorse Thiersch’s theory that exposure to weather is one of the commonest causes of the disease, and Partsch found that of his ninety-eight patients seventy-three per cent, belonged to a class in life so exposed, while all of Worner’s patients were of the lower class engaged in agricultural occupations. Glandular involvement takes place tolerably early, Partsch finding it present in one-half of his cases; but metastasis is not very common, for in ten autopsies Williams saw it only twice. The results of radical operations for carcinoma of the lip are among the best. Czerny in fifty-six cases, of which twenty-two were under the three-year limit, found thirteen patients in the remaining thirty-four who remained well for three years, or thirty-eight per cent. Maiweg, of Bonn, claims 81 cures in 138 cases, or fifty-eight per cent., 32 of these cases having been observed for from three to six years, and i forty-nine over six^years. Worner reports from the Tubingen clinic f the results of 277 cases treated by operation, many of them before these operations were made as radical as at present, with the result of 106 patients remaining without recurrence three years or more, this number being 38 per cent, of the whole, or, if we deduct from the total 54 cases not observed as long as three years, the number free from recurrence will amount to 47.5 per cent. If the 16 cases in which the patients died from the operation are also deducted, this percentage will rise to 51.2. Of these 106 cases 37 had been observed for from four to ten years, and 11 for over ten years, without relapse. Collecting the cases re- ported in the clinics of Thiersch, Bergmann, Billroth, Winiwarter, Fischer, and Koch, and those reported by Partsch, and adding them to his own, making a total of 866 cases, Worner found that 242 ' patients had remained well over three years, or twenty-eight per cent, of the gross number, without any deductions. i Carcinoma op the Mouth, Nose, Pharynx, Palate, and Tonsil. — The most usual situations for carcinoma of the mouth are in the cheeks, where it often appears to be directly due to ulceration set up by rough teeth, and in the floor of the mouth. In both situations the disease is generally epitheliomatous, but in the former it spreads quickly and is a very rapidly fatal form of the disease. It may run a very slow course in the floor of the mouth, but is apt to return after removal, probably because the latter has not been sufficiently extensive. In these cases very free excision must be resorted to, even removing everything down to the skin, watching for recurrence and then cutting still more widely, and if necessary removing a part of either jaw. Even in such cases a cure may be obtained. Carcinoma of the nasal cavities is quite rare, Bosworth having been able to find only twenty-nine cases. In only two was there metastasis, and glandular involvement was unusual. The results of operation here