740 1NJU1UES AXD DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. the posterior border of the ascending ramnsof the lower jaw. It begins about the middle of the zygoma, is carried downward and backward, and then forward below the lower border of the horizontal ramus. After the flap is raised, the deep fascia and masseter muscle are cut by a transverse incision below and parallel to the parotid duct. The peri- osteum is then raised, the bone trephined, and the sigmoid notch deep- ened by cutting away the bridge of bone above the trephine perforation. The nerve can then be excised just as it emerges from the foramen ovale or a little distance below it, according to the wishes of the operator. When the operations already described for trigeminal neuralgia have failed to give permanent relief, it is proper to enter the cranium and excise the nerve trunks in front of the Gasserian ganglion, and to remove as much as possible of the ganglion itself. This may he done by trephining the base of the skull, or by opening it through the squamous portion of the temporal hone. The former operation has been especially advocated and employed by Rose1 and Andrews,2 while the latter has been perfected by Hartley and Krause, though previously suggested by Horsley. The basal method requires section of the zygoma and eoronoid process, detachment of the masseter and temporal muscles, and the application of a specially constructed trephine or chisel to the region near the oval foramen. After the ganglion has been extirpated the divided bones are sutured, or the zygoma may be sutured and the eoronoid process removed. This operation seems to be more formidable than that by opening the skull through the temporal fossa according to Hartley’s method.3 Experience on the cadaver and in the living subject has convinced me of the value and feasibility of the latter operation. An omega-shaped incision is made over the temporal fossa, so that the ends of the cut will be near the tragus and external angular process of the frontal bone, and its convexity at the temporal ridge. The tissues are incised down to the bone, and a chisel or surgical engine is then used to divide the hone along the same line. With an elevator the divided bone and soft tissues are pried up, and are turned down over the zygoma as a sort of trap-door. The bone breaks across the base of the incision, and the skin, muscle, and periosteum serve as a hinge. The middle meningeal artery is seen in the dura and ligated if necessary, and the dura is then carefully detached from the base of the skull until the three divisions of the trigeminus and the Gasserian ganglion are exposed. Care is required to avoid injuring the cavernous sinus, and illumination by an electric-light head-mirror is almost a requisite. After the ganglion has been curetted away with a small sharp spoon, or torn out with forceps, the brain and dura are allowed to fall into their normal posi- tion, the osteoplastic flap is turned up so as to close the opening in the cranium, and sutures are applied. (See Figs. 1694, 1695, pp. 636, 637, supra.) Many surgeons have operated by this route and method with rapid union of the wound and satisfactory results. The cases are too recent, however, to prove anything as to permanency of cure. The ganglion has not been removed in all the cases, but in certain of them an intra- 1 Op. cit. 5 Journal of American Medical Association, 1891. 3 Annals of Surgery, May, 1893, p. 512.