244 TUMORS. in the individual, and not diminished by general emaciation. But every one of these arguments and instances, except perhaps the case of the paralyzed foetus, can be explained in other ways, as by the increased cir- culation caused in the part by inflammation, by the removal of the testi- cle, or by constriction and hindrance to the return of blood, and hence this theory must also be dismissed for want of proof; it should be noted, moreover, that in his recent work on tumors Sutton does not allude to it. The deep subfascial lipomata often originate in connection with bones, being intimately connected with the periosteum. Besides that occurring on the clavicle, noted above, Power has recorded one on the periosteum of the femur, Butlinone on the tibia and fibula, J. Smith and Walsliam three on the pelvic bones, Nunn one on the scapula, and J. Smith one on the radius; but they are most frequently found attached to the bones of the skull (Sutton). Occasionally they are seen passing down be- tween the muscles to the vertebral foramina, and even entering the spinal canal (Mayet). Lipomata are found also in the let ro-peritoneal fat, between the folds of the mesentery, and in the omentum. In the first situation they fre- quently, although not always, spring from the capsule of the kidney. In the mesentery they may be so closely connected with the blood-ves- sels as to make their separation impossible, without such injury to the vessels as would require resection of the intestine, and this is probably one reason for the high mortality of operations upon these growths— operations which are better left undone, for the tumors cause trouble only by their mechanical effects, and especially by their size, which is frequently great, their weight sometimes reaching even to sixty pounds (Terrillon, Alsberg). These operations are usually undertaken with uncertain diagnosis, and ought to be limited if possible to exploration. The lipomatous growths may invade either the meso-colon or the mesen- tery proper. Meredith has reported the successful removal of a lipoma of the omentum, a situation in which the prognosis of an operation would naturally be far better. Quite important are the properitoneal lipomata, especially those which form near hernial openings, and which are supposed to cause hernia by drawing down the peritoneum with them as they grow outward. Especially to be noted are those tumors of the epigastrium which consist of small masses of properitoneal fat, becoming extruded through apertures in the abdominal muscles and fascia, and appearing under the skin like hernise. Similar growths have been encountered on the chest, a subfascial external portion com- municating with a mass of equal size inside of the ribs (subpleural) by a narrow neck passing through an intercostal space. These subpleural growths are very rare, only four cases having been recorded, by Cru- veilhier, Morel-Lavalle, Czerny, and Gussenbauer; the last-named sur- geon successfully removed the tumor by operation. Sometimes deep intermuscular lipomata will have subcutaneous projections, and if the surgeon is not careful to follow the narrow neck inward, and extirpate the deeper part of the hourglass-shaped tumor, a so-called “recurrence” is apt to follow. Eve reports an intramuscular tumor of the abdomi- nal wall in a girl thirteen years old, noticed first at the age of four months and hence probably congenital, which lay between the trans- versalis fascia and the aponeurosis of the oblique muscles, and which though of large size was successfully extirpated.