486 INJURIES OF JOINTS. therefore necessary to lay the joint widely open, inspect its interior, re- move fragments of bone or cartilage, cleanse the whole with antiseptic solutions in the most thorough manner, and then, if the joint surfaces are not shattered, close up the wound antiseptically, using drainage if the parts are much injured. If, however, the joint is badly comminuted, resection may he neces- sary, and if the shattering extends too far from the joint, or if the prin- cipal nerves and vessels are destroyed, amputation is usually required. The deadly experience of former wars firmly settled for that time the rule that excisions of the knee joint for gunshot wounds were not or- dinarily justifiable, the mortality being too great, but the advent of antiseptics has again brought up the question. We have had no great wars yet with a full trial of antiseptic exci- sions of the knee, and, beyond doubt, it will be very difficult in the exi- gencies of rapid marching and fighting to excise a soldier’s knee, and put it up in such a secure way that he can be hauled a hundred miles in an ambulance, and come out all right. In light marching, the sur- geon cannot have several barrels of plaster-of-Paris for dressings, yet binder’s board or thin elm splints might be furnished, and would serve for short trips to general or steamer hospitals. Where long ambulance hauling is not required, there seems no reason why military resections of the knee should not have a reasonable success under antiseptic con- ditions, and the question will therefore come up again, and will have to be decided by the experience of future wars. As to the shoulder, elbow, and wrist, exsections succeeded admir- ably in former campaigns, and will no doubt do still better in those of the future. The question of excision or amputation is to be decided in the superior extremity much as it is in civil practice, that is to say, excision is preferable to amputation unless the circulation is so far de- stroyed that mortification is inevitable, for even a slightly useful hand is far preferable to none at all. The articulations of the cranium, being firm sutures, with no syno- vial membranes, scarcely require special consideration. The new weapon has, however, introduced a form of injury little known before. In many cases the bullet in entering gives such a sudden expansion or out-fling to the substance of the brain as actually to burst and shatter the bony walls of the cranium. This is probably explicable by the law of hy- draulics, that fluids—and the living brain is a semifluid substance— transmit force equally in all directions, and there is an experiment which gives analogous results. If a bullet be fired from one of the new guns through an empty tin flask, it merely perforates it, but if the flask be filled with water and the stopper put in, the bullet will not only pierce the tin, but shatter the whole flask. As far as practical management is concerned, gunshot wounds affect- ing the articulations of the cranium must be treated precisely like fractures of the skull in general. Punctured, Incised, and Lacerated Wounds of Joints. Punctured wounds of joints, as well as incised, contused, and lacer- ated wounds, are to be treated much like gunshot wounds which have