314 VENEREAL DISEASES: SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. series of inoculations made upon fourteen patients. He found the re- suits much the same as Ducrey had found, to wit, that in pustules pro- duced by successive inoculations the presence of a microbe similar to that found by Ducrey could always be demonstrated. The attempts to cultivate this microbe were negative. He found, on examining sec- tions of excised chancroids, that he was unable to demonstrate the presence of these microbes, and the difficulty he thought existed in the fact that these bacilli could not exist in alcohol, even if very much diluted, and that they were very difficult indeed to color by any of the then known methods. Jullien, in 1892, communicated to the “Societe de Dermatologie et Syphiligrapliie, ” at Paris, the fact that he had made experimental inocu- lations after the manner of Ducrey and Krefting, and had been led to be- lieve that the chancroids which he had used were not very virulent, and that inoculation would not go beyond the third generation. In 1892, in the July number of the Monatshefte fur praktische Dermatologie, Unna showed that, by using a method of coloration consisting of a mixture of glycerin and ether, he had demonstrated the existence of a bacterium which he called the streptobacillus of the soft chancre. Unna did not positively state that this bacillus was identical with those which Ducrey and Krefting had discovered, but he noted that these bacilli, during their period of increase, formed in the tissues more or less elongated chains, and that they were nearly always found in the lymphatic inter- spaces of the cellular tissue. He never found any migratory cells. Krefting, again in 1892, in the Archiv fur Dermatologie und Syphilo- graphie, Ergdnzungshefte, showed that in subsequent researches he had always beep able to find the same bacillus, and also had found this bacillus in a virulent bubo which had been opened under cover, as well as in the pustules which were produced by inoculation of the pus from this bubo both before and after it had been opened. The attempt at culture, however, of either variety of pus, whether of inoculation or from the bubo, gave a negative result. In making his experiments Krefting first used for the purpose of discoloring his sections Unna’s mixture of glycerin and ether. This, however, he afterward gave up for a preparation of the oil of anilin and xylol, for the purpose of dis- coloration, while for staining he used the alkaline solution of borax and methyl blue indicated by Unna, and in the preparations of chancroid thus made, he found bacilli in more or less numbers seated about the borders of the ulcerations, and in many instances penetrating through a zone of infiltrated cellular tissue surrounding the ulceration, and encroaching upon sound tissue. As Unna has pointed out, these bacilli are more frequently disposed in more or less elongated chains, but nevertheless they are sometimes found as small rods, which latter, however, do not always present the rounded extremities which were found in the bacilli derived from the chancroidal secretion as distinct from the tissues of the ulceration. His conclusions with regard to this question of the microbe of the chancroid are, that its presence is demonstrable in the pustules of inocu- lation, and in the secretions of virulent buboes as well as in the arti- ficial inoculations made with the pus from such buboes, and that it is moreover found in great numbers in sections made of excised chan- croids. Although there is very little doubt that a peculiar microbe has