GOG SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 1 Brit. Med. Journal, Dec. fi, 1890. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Feb. 5, 1891. with increased familiarity with these symptoms, in the profession, there will come an earlier diagnosis, and therefore earlier and more suc- cessful treatment than has hitherto been possible. (1) First, one of the most distressing symptoms of tumor is head- ache. This begins early, remits but little, and as a rule is excessively severe, especially in cerebellar cases, under the tense tentorium. If it occur in those cases in which removal of the tumor is impossible, the mere relief of the headache will warrant operation. Thus Horsley1 records one case in which he removed nearly one-lialf of the occipital bone for an intracranial tumor which was irremovable, and the relief was so great that when from the growth of the tumor there was re- currence of the headache, the patient sought him and was glad to re- ceive relief anew by the removal of the other half of the same bone. Mace wen also testifies to the relief of the headache, vomiting, and even the paralysis (including region of control of the sphincter) which follows such a palliative operation. My own experience in two cases of irremovable tumor is also decidedly in the same direction. Unfortu- nately the location of the headache is not a guide to the site of the dis- ease unless the tumor possibly is superficial. As a rule it is diffused rather than localized. In a few cases it is absent. (2) Pain is almost always present, either as spontaneous pain or produced by pressure or percussion. The last form, pain produced by percussion, is probably more valuable than pain upon pressure as a localizing symptom, spontaneous pain being the least valuable of all. (3) Vertigo is common, and is more marked in cerebellar tumors than in cerebral. In the former case also vertigo is often present in the recumbent as well as in the erect posture. (I) Vomiting is often noted, and is of much value as a diagnostic point, if it lie “cerebral vomiting,” that is, if it have no relation either to the ingestion of food or evidences of disturbed digestion, such as furred tongue, constipation, diarrhoea, etc. It is often a most distressing symptom. (5) Epileptic Convulsions.—These usually arise as soon as the tumor is large enough to produce pressure on the cortex. If the tumor is small and in the motor area, the convulsions may also be limited to the face, arm, or leg, and if so they are of the greatest value in deter- mining the location of the tumor. If the attack always begins, for instance, in the same arm or leg, or in the same part of the face, the localizing value is very great. Unfortunately, however, such convul- sions are apt to be general rather than local. (6) Choked Disc.—This is almost always present in tumor, and arises as soon as the tumor has attained any size, though Seguin doubts3 the frequency of this symptom. Unfortunately it gives little if any indication as to the position or character of the growth. If it exist in one eye the tumor is most likely to be in the opposite hemisphere ; or if double, the lesion is .most likely on the side of the least swelling. These indications, however, are only helps. Given then headache, pain, vertigo, cerebral vomiting, epileptic convulsions, and choked disc, all or nearly all of these, and the diagnosis of an intracranial growth is almost certain. Possibly also by some of them, especially by localized epileptic convulsions, the location may be