RESECTION" OF THE RECTUM. 907 suture with preservation of the sphincters, give much better results as regards the after-condition and usefulness of the parts than those which require amputation of the lower end of the gut and destruction of the anus. There is not enough choice between an anus in the peri- neum over which the patient has no control, and one in the left groin, to make it worth while for the patient to take any great risk for the sake of securing one rather than the other. I am not then in favor of extirpation in old cases of extensive non- malignant disease, covering several inches of gut and attended by great thickening of the surrounding tissues, but prefer to confine the opera- tion to those in which a good result, with control of the evacuations and without cicatricial stenosis or the formation of faecal fistulae over the sacrum, seems probable. I have operated in several such cases, in which the after-condition of the patient has certainly been better than it would have been made by colotomy. There is, however, one class of cases—-that of tubercular ulcerations— in which extirpation should always, if possible, be practised regardless of the subsequent utility of the parts, but merely to remove a focus of disease. Resection of the Rectum. Another of the great advances in this line of surgery in the past few years is the discovery by Kraske of a method of resecting instead of amputating the rectum. Formerly our only way of reaching new growths or old strictures was by an incision through the perineum, by which the anus was first freely divided to allow access to the rectal pouch. Kraske has worked out an incision over the sacrum by which it is possible to come down upon the rectum from behind, free it from its attachments, and resect many inches or even the whole of it, still leav- ing the sphincters untouched if desired. In this way the field of oper- ation has been much enlarged, and many strictures previously consid- ered too high up in the bowels to be safely operated upon, have be- come suitable for removal. Kraske’s operation 1 2 consists briefly in making a median cut from the second sacral vertebra to the anus; severing the left gluteus maximus from its sacral attachment; excising the coccyx; detaching the sacral connections of the tubero-sacral and spinoso-sacral ligaments; and chiselling away the lateral mass of the sacrum in a curved line begin- ning afr the outer border of the third sacral foramen and terminating at the corner of the sacrum. When the disease involves the anus, this is next freed by a circular incision; the rectum is detached from its bed; the peritoneal cavity is opened also by a circular cut; the gut is drawn well down and amputated above the tumor, and its end is fixed by sutures to the para-anal tissues. Under other circumstances the bowel is divided above and below the seat of disease, and after the removal of the affected part the ends are brought together with su- tures. This operation has been variously modified by Schede, Rinne, Levy, and Bardenheuer, who makes a transverse section of the sacrum.3 1 Verhandlungen der Deutschen Gessellschaft fur Cliirurgie, Bd. ii., 1885; Kelsey, op. cit., pp. 397 et seq. 2 Volkmann, Klinische Vortrage, No. 298.