INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1036 rior culs-de-sac must have previously been freely opened. The clamp must be applied about one centimetre from the uterus, and after it lias been made tight, the tissues are divided close to the womb; then the clamp is applied upon the other side, and the section is completed. The fact that it is preferable to effect the haemostasis in two or three stages has already been mentioned, and for this smaller instruments, four or six in all, will be employed. The forceps are removed at the end of forty-eight hours. Some operators simply fill the opening in the vaginal vault with iodoform gauze, and all use this in the vagina as a drain; if clamps are em- ployed, the same material is wrapped around those portions of the instru- ments which are in contact with the vulva. It is generally regarded as best to at least partially close with sutures the vaginal vault. The removal of the uterine appendages, in case they are diseased, or in case the subject is comparatively young, is to be added. Other methods of removing the uterus by the vagina are Muller’s (total median section), Doyen’s (median hemisection), and Pean’s, or Segond’s (morcellement valvulaire). According to Bonnet and Petit, morcellement constitutes an impor- tant addition to our modes of treatment, which should be justly at- tributed to Pean. It permits ready but otherwise impossible removal of a uterus, and its advantages are well-defined, as regards operative facility and safety, in the first of the rules for its execution: Never remove a fragment without seeing it, and without having seized the tissues above it. Para-Sacral and Sacrococcygeal Extirpation of the Uterus. Kocher removed the coccyx in order to reach the posterior face of the rectum high up, and in 1885 Kraske, for the same purpose, not only removed the coccyx, but also the lower portion of the sacrum. Prof. E. Zuckerkandl1 made known the exposure and accessibility of pelvic organs accomplished by parasacral section, that is, by an incision along the inferior lateral border of the sacrum, extending along the side of the coccyx and to its point, and claimed that this operation could re- place that of Kraske; thesameview wasupheld by Professor A. Wolfer, of Gratz, who thus successfully operated.2 Willems states that the oper- ation is much more difficult and laborious, and longer than sacrotomy. We may omit, therefore, further reference to the parasacral method, though it has met the approval of Kufferath. Three years after Kraske’s communication—his object was to he able to remove growths occupying the superior part of the rectum—Hoche- negg and Herzfeld proposed the application of his method to removal of the uterus, and the first operations of this kind were by the former and by Gersuny, the operation being afterward repeated by Ullman, Hegar, Salzer, Czerny, and others. But operators have differed as to the amount of bony structure to he removed. Thus Czerny 3 removed only the coccyx; Hochenegg. Gersuny, and Muller, in addition to the coccyx, a small portion of the latero-inferior part of the sacrum; while 1 Wien. klin. Wochenschrift, 1889, Nos. 14 und 18. 2 Ibid., No. 14. 3 Bonnet et Petit, op. cit.