( 341) DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. BY SAMUEL ASHHURST, M.D., SURGEON TO THE CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. The paper of the late Professor Howe 1 needs but little amendment, since the annals of surgical science do not contain much to add to the es- say as it came from his pen. The task of the present writer will he chiefly to indicate the modification's of treatment which have received the general approbation of practical surgeons since the original paper appeared, and which consist mainly of alterations brought about by the universal adoption and more thorough application of the principles of aseptic surgery. Modern investigation has, however, made some advances which have an important bearing upon the theory which seeks an explanation or elucidation of the causes' of disease in the cellular tissue. By these investigations, made by means of improved microscopical methods, we have learned to look upon the all-including areolar tissue of the body as something more than a framework to support and unite other or- gans. There is good reason to think that the all-pervading cellular tis- sue, by its connection with the lymphatic system, is itself an organ of the highest value, having functions of a most important and vital kind— a circumstance which throws much light upon its pathology. The same investigations point to the fact as very highly probable, if not yet conclusively demonstrated, that in the areolar interspaces begin the mouths of the lymphatics, if these interspaces are not those mouths themselves. If this histological inference should prove to be correct, and it is supported by many observations, it will go far to account for the vari- ous inflammations which have their seat in the cellular tissue. Foreign and injurious matter, whether from without or from the detritus of the various organs, seeking admission to the circulation, is arrested primarily in the areolar interspaces and afterward extends through the primary lymphatic trunks to the nearest collection of lymphatic vessels or glands. According to its character it excites more or less irritation in the vessels through which it passes, at the first gland it reaches, or in the cellular interspace—that is, lymphatic mouth—by which it finds admission to the general system. Modern observation tends to confirm the doctrine that upon the character of the materies morbi thus ad- mitted depend the various kinds and grades of areolar inflammation, rather than upon any local peculiarities of the areolar tissue itself. 1 See Yol. III., page 117.