DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 662 The best representative of a steel spinal support which acts upon the principle of antero-posterior leverage, is the Taylor brace with its various modifications.1 It consists of two steel bars placed in the gutters on either side of the spinous processes, the bars following the pathological curves. At the upper end are two arms which pass over the shoulders at the root of the neck. Below, the uprights are secured to an inverted U-shaped frame, the lower pads of which are fitted into the post- trochanteric sulci on either side. To give anterior support to the shoulders, chest pieces are applied below the clavicle to the anterior portion of the thorax, being firmly secured to the posterior uprights. This posterior splint is firmly fastened in position by an anterior apron with straps passing round the body. Perineal straps also serve to fix the apparatus. The uprights are hinged to permit of motion back- ward but not forward.'2 Whitman 3 describes a modification of this form of apparatus, which even more thoroughly fixes and rigidly holds the shoulders. Another class of appliances is represented by the lateral crutch, which is expected to maintain the erect position, not with the expecta- tion of relieving the spinal column of its superabundant weight, but by supporting the shoulders and thus preventing the bending forward of the body. Still another class of apparatus, represented by Stillman’s, attempts by spring or elastic force to straighten the existing kyphosis. No one form of apparatus is sufficient for all cases, and adaptations must be made for each particular patient. As a rule the encasing ap- paratus is the most comfortable and permits of the least motion of the the diseased vertebrae. Plaster of Paris is the cheapest and gives the most support, but has the disadvantage of weight. The objections to non-removable jackets are avoided by cutting open the plaster jacket along its front and having it bound and laced. Wood and paper jack- ets4 are serviceable, but aluminium 5 will doubtless come into use when its alloys are better known. The objections which have been urged against the use of the partially tanned leather jacket recommended by Agnew, and largely used in America, have arisen from a want of practical acquaintance with it. Taking a plaster cast does not require long suspension, seldom more than a few minutes, and the patient is quickly placed in a recumbent posture, after which the cast is at once cut open and removed. When made of proper leather and well fitted over a mould, Agnew’s apparatus is a most satisfactory and comfortable support, and yields excellent results. The leather is only partially tanned, and is stiffened at a few points by steel strips.6 The use of poro-plastic felt, even in the temperate climate of America, is unsatisfactory, as the heat of the body 'soon softens and renders it useless. When the location of caries is above the seventh dorsal vertebra, any form of encircling splint becomes more and more ineffective as a 1 This is thoroughly described iu the Transactions of the American Orthopaedic Associa- tion, vol. i., 1889, p. 15. 2 See illustration in Trans. Am. Orthop. Assoc., vol. i., p. 15. 3 Trans. Am. Orthop. Assoc., vol. v., p. 44. 4 Young, Orthop. Surgery, pp. 45-49, Phila., 1894; also Annals of Gynaecology and' Paediatry, August, 1891. 5 Phelps, Transactions of the American Orthopaedic Association, 1893. 6 Agnew, Principles and Practice of Surgery, 2d edition, Philadelphia, 1889, vol. ii., p. 881