SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. rv iv ry i i l tion, the indications for which may be summarized as follows: 1, Great deformity. 2, Suffocative attacks or continued dyspnoea. 3, Dyspha- gia. f, Very rapid growth of the tumor. Many variations of classical operations for thyroid enlargements have been devised by different surgeons. In the very elaborate article of Van Arsdale,1 nine methods are described. Total and partial extirpation, resection, amputation, enucleation, and ligature of the afferent vessels, comprise the procedures from among which the proce- dure adapted to the individual case is to be chosen. Total extirpation should be reserved for malignant disease of the thyroid gland. In the ordinary varieties of goitre it can no louger be considered justifiable, though not because of the immediate mortality of the operation, for this has steadily decreased. Thus, according to Wdlffler, 50 thyroidec- tomies prior to 1850 were attended by a mortality of f 1 per cent. Of 119 patients operated on before 1877, only 19.6 per cent. died. Of 250 cases reported by Kocher, the mortality was only 2.-1 per cent., includ- ing all cases; or, excluding those of malignant disease and five of exophthalmic goitre, less than one per cent. My- c oedema; Cachexia Thyreo-priva.—The danger of total thyroidec- tomy depends on the removal of all thyroid gland tissue, and the conse- quent induction of a condition known as myxoedema operativa, or cachexia strumipriva. The first contribution to this subject Avas made by Reverdin, of Geneva, in September, 1882, and about the same time Kocher noticed the development of this condition in patients Avhom he had subjected to total extirpation of the thryoid gland. Thyroid cachexia does not, however, develop in every case after thyroidectomy. Among 3f patients operated on by Kocher, the cachexia existed in a more or less marked degree in 2d. According to Trombetta, only twenty-seven per cent, of thyroidectomies are followed by myxoedema. It is probable that in many cases in which the patients remain well after the operation, portions of gland tissue with normal functions have not been removed, or that accessory glands have assumed the physio- logical work of the gland proper. It is also worthy of note that most of the cases hitherto reported have come from Switzerland, whereas the patients operated upon by Billroth, Crede, Wdlffler, and others, have for the most part remained well. It is possible, therefore, that a primary climatological influence may weigh as an etiological factor in the development of operative myxoedema. The report to the Clinical Society of London contains 277 cases of total thyroidectomy, in 22 of which the goitre returned, or development of accessory glands ensued. These cases remained free from symptoms. In 186 there were no traces of cachexia, although the goitre did not recur and compensatory en- largements were not found. Only in 96 cases were the symptoms of myxoedema more or less pronounced. In only one-per-cent, of partial thyroidectomies has the cachexia developed in consequence of a reflex atrophy of the remaining portion of the gland. Ordinarily insidious in its beginning, the disease progresses until in from three to six months after the operation the cachectic condition is well established. While on the one hand the condition may develop with foudroyant manifestations immediately after the effects of the operation have passed off, on the other hand symptoms may be delayed 1 Annals of Surgery, vol. xii., p. 161.