958 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. being excised. The gap here made was closed by suture of the peri- urethral tissues. The result in this case was also good. Vignard,1 reviewing fifteen cases of complete excision, finds that the ends of the resected urethra can usually be well approximated by suture. He regards the operation as the best plan of treatment for traumatic strictures, affording radical cure, temporary benefit being all that can be expected from other methods. Not only is it especially in- dicated in impassable strictures of this variety, but also in well-defined, unyielding strictures, though permeable. The soft parts should be accurately united, and drainage is not necessary in most cases. A catheter should be left in the bladder for six days. Manley considers that resection and restoration of the continuity of the urethra are indicated in cases of rebellious perineal fistulse, whether due to injury or to gonorrhoea, and in strictures unsuited for internal urethrotomy, in which, after opening the urethra by external urethro- tomy, the occasion should be taken *to “hew a gutter through the cicatricial tissues,” and to form a new floor for the canal from the sur- rounding parts. He also considers urethrorrhaphy indicated in all cases of rupture of the urethra, the operation being done as promptly as possible. Resection of the urethra is discussed in a lecture by Guyon,2 who re- ports nine cases of impassable stricture, two of them complicated by fistulse, in which removal of the contracted mass and suture was followed by prompt healing. He says that from all sources sixty-four cases, forty-nine complete resections and fifteen partial, have been collected by one of his internes, M. Roques. Urethroplasty.—In cases of defect of the urethra, or loss of sub- stance due to sloughing, or in those of stricture requiring extensive resection, in which a space is left too wide to permit of approximation and suture of the ends of the urethra, a plastic operation may be re- sorted to in order to fill the gap. This may be done either by cutaneous flaps (autoplasty), or by transplantation of mucous membrane, as illustrated by the following cases:— (1) Cutaneous Flaps.-—Uelorme3 describes a case of dense stricture in which he excised the membranous and part of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and to close the gap so left made a rectangular flap 1 cm. in front of the anus, 8 to 9 cm. in breadth and 4 cm. long, its base being on the right side of the perineum, one finger’s breadth from the median line. The extremity of the flap was folded double to the ex- tent of 8 cm. by joining the epidermal surfaces by three catgut sutures on each side of the doubled portion, making the flap resemble a glove finger. Tlie doubled flap was then securely fixed into the gap in the urethra by an arch of silver wire sutures passed from the surface through the depth of the urethra, from its anterior to its posterior border, and by lateral sutures. Tbe skin surfaces were sutured with silkworm gut, and a gum catheter was inserted and left in for several days. The result of the operation was good. In two cases of perineo-scrotal defect of the floor of the urethra, nearly two inches long, resulting from sloughing following extravasa- 1 Jour. Cutaneous and Genito-Urinary Dis., New York, June, 1893, p. 241. 5 Gaz. Hebdom., 14 Mai, 1892. 3 Gazette des Hop. de Paris, 1889, t. lxii., p. 619.