INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 974 maintain, or in which septic infection gives rise to more serious conse- quences. Even in such simple procedures as tapping, care should be taken to thoroughly cleanse the skin, and to use a trocar that has been sterilized by boiling. Sloughing of the Scrotum.—In sloughing of the scrotum poultices are commonly advised. These certainly hasten the separation of dead tissues, particularly if lightly dusted with carbonate of sodium; but in view of the extremely fetid nature of these cases some antiseptic is needed, and a good application is gauze saturated with hot solutions of weak bichloride of mercury, carbolic acid, permanganate of potas- sium, or boric acid. Randolph Winslow1 gives the detail of four cases in which gangrene of the scrotum followed the operation of excision of inguinal glands. Elephantiasis of the Scrotum.—Since Mr. Bell wrote his article in Vol. VI. of this work, this disease has been thoroughly studied by Dr. K. McLeod, of Calcutta,2 and as his views have been generally ac- cepted by the profession they will be given below. Tbe method of controlling the hemorrhage varies somewhat. Turner3 used a clamp made of two parallel pieces of wood, a curved notch being in the upper one; these are made to approximate and compress the parts by a thumb- screw at each end. Tillmanns and Kocher both advise the use of this clamp, while McLeod employs the elastic cord. The many varieties of haemostatic forceps now in use also render the bleeding less to be feared than formerly. The following is taken from McLeod’s article:— The inducements to remove the diseased parts by operation are these: (a) The deformity and inconvenience caused by the growth, especially when it has attained a large size; (b) the sexual disability which it en- tails; (c) the discomfort caused by the periodical recurrence of fever; (d) the impairment of general health which results from these repeated attacks of pyrexia. The contra-indications to operation are: (а) Old age. In the aged, sexual disablement is not a matter of much consequence, and if the tumor has, as often happens, become stationary in its growth, and the concomitant fever ceases to occur, or becomes less frequent and severe, operative interference, which is al- ways more hazardous in the old, should be considered with more hesita- tion and caution. (б) 111 health and visceral disease. A weak or damaged heart, or disease of the kidneys or intestines, is prohibitory, as are also acute enlargements of the liver and spleen. (c) Complications.—(1.) An abscess, if it exists, should first be cured. (2.) A stricture should be fully dilated. (3.) Very large hydroceles in- crease the risk, but are not a bar to operation. (4.) Hernia increases the risk, and the removal of the tumor with the cure of the hernia at the same time has been proven to be a perilous practice. (5.) Operation should not be resorted to when the tumor is in a state of excitement. Operation.—1. Elevation and elastic bandaging of the growth for from ten to twenty minutes, according to size. 1 Annals of Sura;., Jan., 1886, p. 40. 2 Heath’s Dictionary of Surgery, vol. ii., p. 399. 3 Kocher, Die Kranklieiten der miinnlichen Geschlechtsorgane, S. 21.