183 CHOICE OF ANAESTHETICS. attained by very careful selection and administration, and is probably the most favorable award that can be made to chloroform. The ratio of fatal ether narcosis as given by Lyman in Vol. I. (1 to 23,000) is, according to Julliard and Buxton,1 probably too low. It should be remembered, however, that the vast majority of deaths from ether narcosis have occurred in cases of strangulated hernia, carcinoma with starvation, etc., conditions in which'the power of resistance has been very greatly reduced. The statistics of the other substances, either alone or in combination, are so meagre and unreliable that it is impossi- ble to express their comparative dangers, excepting that it should be remembered that nitrous oxide has been administered millions of times with less than ten recorded deaths, and that the hypodermic use of cocaine for local anaesthesia is attended with considerable danger. Choice of Anesthetics. The choice of an anaesthetic depends upon the condition of the patient, the necessities of the operation, and the safety of the agent. No argu- ment has been advanced to successfully change the judgment heretofore expressed as to the relative safety of ether and chloroform. We must, therefore, conclude that generally ether is the safest anaesthetic, and especially as far as the immediate effects are concerned. The condition of the patient and the exigencies of the operation must, however, al- ways be taken into consideration. Ether.—Ether is generally to be preferred under the following con- ditions: 1. When the operator must employ an unskilled anaesthetist. 2. In collapse or extreme prostration, as in cases of prolonged suppura- tion with a hectic or anaemic state, collapse following loss of blood, etc., since it stimulates the heart and but little of the anaesthetic is required.2 3. In heart disease the dangers of any anaesthetic are increased, but ether is to be preferred to chloroform. In uncomplicated mitral regur- gitation, ether can be given as in any ordinary case.3 1. In persons who are free from pronounced pulmonary or renal disease. Chloroform.—While chloroform is more dangerous than ether, it is comparatively safe when skilfully administered to persons not affected with organic or functional cardiac incompetency. It should be pre- ferred in the following conditions: 1. In hot climates, where ether is usually inapplicable, and where a free circulation of dry and warm air increases the safety of the patient. 2. When a large number of persons are to be anaesthetized. 3. In cases of Bright’s disease. I. In cases of aneurism and marked atheroma of the blood-vessels, where the struggling and vascular stimulation of ether might cause rupture. 5. In cases of obstruction in the respiratory tract, or acute or pronounced pulmonary disease, as bronchitis, pneumonia, phthisis, or any other condition productive of dyspnoea. 6. In cases requiring the use of the thermo-cautery about the head, or in operating near an open fire. 7. When the circulation is not disturbed by fatty degeneration or valvular disease of the heart. 8. Only when a competent ansesthetizer is at hand. 1 Buxton, Anaesthetics. 2 Ibid. ; Lancet, 1888. 3 Ibid., 1889.