INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. <3 TO ble for instruments, but cyanide of mercury (Chibret), from 1 in 200 to 1 in 1500, may be used for cleansing both the instruments and the surface of the patient. Bourgeoise recommends boric acid in an aqueous solution of borax. After an operation has been commenced, there is perhaps no better preparation for cleansing than a four-per- cent. solution of boric acid freshly made in boiling water. It is neces- sary that the water should boil after the acid has been added in order that any impurity contained in the latter shall be destroyed by the heat. Nuel also recommends the physiological salt solution for the same purposes. According to G. E. and A. E. de Scliweinitz the solu- tions of boric acid and cocaine contain many poisonous germs when not fresh, and it is therefore necessary that care should be exercised, for these preparations are perhaps more constantly employed in dis- eases and operations than any others. For the same reason pipettes, cotton, gauze, and bandages should be thoroughly sterilized. For sterilizing instruments boiling water is probably the most effective, simple, and easily obtained material. They may also be placed in a bath of cyanide of mercury (1 in 1500), in absolute alcohol, or in a saturated solution of boric acid after they have been sterilized. Dressings may be sterilized by steam, or may be dipped in strong solu- tions of bichloride of mercury. Iodoform and aristol, which have been highly recommended, are less suitable for the conjunctiva, which they irritate by acting as foreign bodies; but they may be used with advantage by dusting over the lids and along the commissure. Diseased conditions of the lids and lachrymal apparatus should be cured before any operations are performed on the ball. When there is disease of the lachrymal sac it has been advised (Haab) to occlude the canaliculi by cauterization. Injuries of the Eyeball. Foreign Bodies in the Eye.—In no operation on the eye are the effects of cocaine more useful and more appreciated by both patient and surgeon than in removing foreign bodies. A few drops of a four- per-cent. solution soon quiets the most irritable eye, so that it may be handled with impunity and without pain. Minute particles are at times overlooked by the most careful operator, and in order that there may be no doubt as to the presence of a foreign body, a drop or two of a solution of fluorescine may be dropped into the eye. When there is a break in the epithelium of the cornea the spot immediately becomes green, and if a foreign body is present it is surrounded by the green spot. Foreign bodies that penetrate the eye require prompt attention. When lodged in the cornea they should be removed through the point of entrance. Bodies that have penetrated the cornea and entered the anterior chamber should be removed at the most convenient point that will interfere least with vision. No exact rules can be laid down for their removal, but generally a peripheral opening should be made with a lance or Graefe knife, and if the body can be grasped by a small for- ceps this will be the readiest instrument; but when it is difficult to seize, it may (if steel or iron) be brought to the opening by the electro-magnet,