INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 862 Gastro-enterostomy is a justifiable operation in some cases, even though the tumor cannot be removed, and may be employed for the purpose of prolonging life and making the patient more comfortable. Retroperitoneal Tumors. There is no department of abdominal surgery which requires more careful investigation, and which is capable of greater improvement in operative management, than that of new growths occurring in the re- troperitoneal space. Anatomical Relations and Pathology.—A careful study of re- ported cases shows that the most frequent origin of these growths is in the connective tissue of the capsule of the kidneys. None of them can be said to be absolutely benign, not even those made up of normal tis- sues, such as the lipomata, fibromata, or myxomata, although they may not lead to the formation of metastases or to infiltration of the sur- rounding parts. From the great size to which they develop, the con- sequent discomfort which they cause, and their tendency to undergo degenerative changes, they cannot be classed as innocent growths. Those which spring from the pelvic walls encroach upon and involve the bladder, uterus, and rectum, and often present features difficult of diagnosis. Smaller growths originate from the retroperitoneal lympha- tics, the bodies of the vertebrae, and the root of the mesentery. From the change which occurs in their anatomical relations it is often quite impossible to determine the exact point of origin of many large retroperitoneal growths. They almost uniformly present themselves in the line of least resistance (that is, anteriorly), and upon reaching a sufficient size to attract attention they appear at either side of the um- bilicus, although they may appear centrally. Owing to circulatory changes within the mass, their liability to subsequent malignant infil- tration, and the development of cachectic conditions, they present, clinically, features of great gravity, and are sometimes immediately hazardous to life. The so-called cyst of the broad ligament is very often partially retroperitoneal in character. There is in these cases no inconsiderable amount of evidence to sup- port the theory of Cohnheim relative to the origin of tumors. They are sometimes active in their growth, often becoming cystic and reach- ing immense proportions. They often show a marked tendency to recur locally when removed. The microscope, besides revealing the usual elements of lipoma or myxoma, often presents a dense, round-celled infiltration in the stroma of the growth, indicating a sarcomatous element. Tumors found in the kidneys of young children are, for the most part, mixed tumors, chiefly myo-sarcomata. In sarcomatous growths circulatory changes are likely to occur— thrombosis, with subsequent softening and cystic degeneration. Lipomata are usually slow-growing, particularly the subserous, and seldom change to other varieties, though they may primarily be mixed in character (myo-lipoma). Fibromata and cystomata, for the most part, spring either from the