788 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. There are more or less prostration, languor, and drowsiness. A slight degree of fever may be present at the beginning, and there may be varied and fleeting pains in different parts of the body, or any of the various symptoms seen in this disease. The condition usually arises suddenly and in some cases subsides very rapidly, but in others may continue for months. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of septic oedema must be made with the laryngoscope. It may be confounded with a catarrhal inflammation of the larynx. The bilateral character of the swelling and the absence of all signs of inflammation will be important factors. In chil- dren, when laryngoscopic examination is not possible, the differential diagnosis from catarrhal or membranous croup will be difficult. The absence of the general symptoms of membranous croup and the rapid increase of the laryngeal obstruction will aid the diagnosis. The inter- missions of the laryngeal stridor, both on inspiration and expiration, and the remissions of catarrhal croup, are entirely foreign to this dis- ease. The laryngoscope will in most cases distinguish between these conditions, and this may be used in the youngest infant. Prognosis.—The prognosis of solid oedema is usually favorable under proper treatment. In some cases, however, when the spasmodic ele- ment is added, it causes grave anxiety. The spasm of the glottis occurs at unexpected times and from unknown causes, and unless prompt measures are taken it may prove fatal. Treatment of CEdema of the Larynx.—The treatment of oedema of the larynx will depend upon the cause. In acute inflammatory oedema scarification of the part affected will be the first indication. This may be done with the laryngeal knife, or even in an emergency with a long curved bistoury. The incision will promptly allow the fluid to escape, and will thus reduce the tumefaction. Insufflation of tannin has been highly recommended, but the knife will accomplish the de- sired effect much more satisfactorily and properly. General measures to promote the action of the skin and the secretions will be of benefit. The application of hot cataplasms to the neck, and the use of ice in- ternally, will aid in reducing the swelling. After the parts have been punctured the use of hot gargles and drinks will promote the discharge of the fluid. In some cases the application of an ice bag, or of a Leiter coil with iced water, has been of benefit in the early stages. All of these measures aid in allaying the primary inflammatory condition, but they cannot take the place of scarification. In chronic inflammatory oedema the treatment must be largely directed to the primary disease. If this can be relieved, the oedema will disappear by the aid of such simple means as the use of ice and the in- sufflation of tannin. Occasionally, however, when the swelling is great, scarification will be necessary, as occurs sometimes in laryngeal phthisis, when great tumefaction of the part may prevent the taking of food, not only through the obstruction but by the pressure causing pain. A few punctures with a lancet will often relieve the local con- dition, but when this fails tracheotomy will be the only resource. In simple serous oedema attention must be given to the disease which causes the effusion. The action of the skin, the bowels, and the kid- neys must be promptly and vigorously increased. Gottstein has