STRICTURE OE THE URETHRA. 957 therefrom, is well exemplified in the cases of severe traumatic stricture met with in practice, where great masses of lymph, extensively involv- ing the peri-urethral tissues, indicate the seat of lesion. In the pendulous urethra, as well as in the bulbous and membranous portions, strictures are often met with of the indurated or nodular variety, in which attempts to relieve by dilatation are followed by swelling, inflammation, and afterward by recontraction. While such cases are obviously suited for internal urethrotomy, it is found that this operation alone will not secure the absorption of the indurated tissue. Mr. C. W. Mansell Moullin,1 in discussing the permanent cure of stricture by external urethrotomy, points out as the essential condi- tions removal of the original irritant, and the maintenance of com- plete physiological rest of the part. This can be accomplished in strictures dealt with by internal urethrotomy by adopting the operation suggested by Harrison—the combination of “perineal puncture,” as he terms it, with the internal cutting. The operation is described by Harrison 2 as follows: “ The patient having been anaesthetized, an internal urethrotomy is performed. He is then placed in the lithotomy position, when a perineal puncture is made on a full-sized median grooved staff, and a drainage-tube is passed into the bladder. As the anterior portion of the urethra will be un- used as long as the drainage continues, I usually introduce a piece of thin drainage-tube by the meatus, and bring it out through the wound by the side of the perineal tube, and then make a loop of it. In this way this portion of the urethra can be washed out and the internal urethrotomy wound kept clean and sweet; unless this precaution is taken, a blood clot may be retained in the anterior urethra, and, by decomposition, cause a rise in temperature. It is therefore not surpris- ing that the cicatricial splice thus introduced into the canal materially differs from one that would be formed under opposite conditions.” The operation is indicated in all strictures of the nodular or contrac- tile variety occurring in the anterior urethra, particularly in the bul- bous portion deeper than its anterior limit, in cicatricial strictures, and in those accompanied by fistula. Resection of the Urethra (Urethrectomy).—This mode of opera- tive treatment may be available in cases of dense, impermeable, or non dilatable strictures, with or without fistulse, such as usually result from traumatism. A number of communications to literature on this sub- ject have been made, showing good results. The steps of the operation are well illustrated in the report of two successful cases by T. H. Man- ley.3 In the first case the urethrectomy was complete. With a filiform guide in the urethra he cut down upon and divided the stricture, which was then excised en bloc. Next, with a sound introduced, the ends of the severed canal were approximated by a cir- cular seam of catgut, the cellular and muscular layers only being included in the stitches. The peri-urethral tissues were then brought together by a line of catgut sutures. No drainage was used. The patient made a perfect recovery. In the second case the resection was partial, a narrow stricture involving only the floor of the urethra 1 Lancet, 1891, vol. ii., p. 652. 2 Lectures, p. 108. 3 Annals of Surgery, Feb., 1893, p. 181.