759 CARCINOMA OF THE NECK. From their attachment to the vascular sheaths these tumors often receive an imparted pulsation. Almost invariably the attachment is to the jugular rather than to the carotid, probably on account of the greater resistance offered by the firmer coats of the latter to the ad vancing neoplasm. In its growth the tumor disturbs the anatomical relations of vein and artery, so that it sometimes happens, as in a case operated on by myself, that an inch or more of the vein is excised with the tumor while the artery is not seen in the wound. A further reason for this more frequent involvement of the vein must be sought in the fact that many of these tumors, as Langenbeck first pointed out, develop from or in the vascular sheath, either from the minute lymph nodes or from the firm connective tissue found within. Since all lymphatic tissues are in relation rather to the venous than to the ar- terial trunks, these growths primarily attach themselves to the former. Barer than the lvmpho-sarcoma are the fascial sarcomata springing from the deep-seated fascia of the neck. They appear principally about the root of the neck in the supraclavicular fossae or in front of the tra- chea. They are of firmer consistence, contain less of the round-celled elements than the lympho-sarcoma, and develop no tendency toward metastasis. In point of recurrence in loco they are very malignant. But most malignant of the sarcomata of the neck is the melanotic variety, which at times develops primarily in the skin or lymphatic glands of the part. Virchow reports a case of this kind, and Diettrich 1 several years ago collected ten cases in only one of which did the patient die of an intercurrent disease. The operations were followed by recur- currence in from two weeks to four months. When death followed the operation, secondary deposits were as a rule encountered in the viscera of the trunk. It is therefore doubtful whether, when the diagnosis can be made, operative interference is justified. When, however, melano- sarcoma has developed in a gland it may be impossible to recognize it prior to operation.2 Carcinoma of the Neck. Primary malignant neoplasms of epithelial origin are rare in the neck. They are often encountered in the cervical glands, secondary to primary disease in the tongue, lip, fauces, oesophagus, or mamma. It may be claimed that primary carcinoma never develops in lym- phatic glands. As elsewhere, epithelioma may develop primarily in the integument from a wart, a syphilitic or tubercular ulcer, or the scar of a burn. At times primary malignant disease of the pharynx or thyroid gland will involve the neck in its growth toward the integument. In 1882 Volkmann 3 first described three cases of deep-seated primary cervical carcinoma which he believed sprang from retained epithelial vestiges of the branchial clefts, quiescent through many years, until stimulated by some unknown cause to the hetero-plastic cell prolifera- tion of carcinoma. Konig4 has seen a number of such cases. Others have been described by Samter,5 Bichard,6 and Gussenbauer.7 They 1 Archiv f. klin. Chirurg., Bd. xxxv., S. 292. 2 Settegast, Ibid., Bd. xxiv., S. 692. 3 Centralbl. f. Chir., 1882, S. 49. 4Lehrbuch d. spec. Chir., Bd. i. 5 Virchow’s Arcliiv, Bd cxii., S. 70. 6 Beit. z. klin. Chir., 1887, S. 165. 1 Centralbl. f. Chir., 1893, S. 307.