113 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. To sum up, in brief, the results of the work of the last few years as regards gunshot injuries of the head, it is thoroughly established that active interference should as a rule be practised; that trephining does not add to the gravity of the case; and that the removal of ball, bone, and devitalized brain tissue can often in greater or less measure be effected, and will much increase the probability of recovery. Wounds of the Abdomen. As respects wounds of the abdomen, much has been done in deter- mining clinically and experimentally their extent, the reasons for the great mortality always known to be associated with them, and, espe- cially, the treatment that should be adopted. It is the latter that is of most interest. What was but a few years ago a method advised on theoretical grounds—performing laparotomy, ligating bleeding vessels, suturing visceral wounds, cleaning the peritoneal cavity, and securing drainage —has now become a recognized procedure, respecting which the only questions are whether or not it shall be adopted in all cases, and if not, in which? It was in 1881 that Kinloch’s operation was recorded; in 1883 Kocher’s followed, the first which was followed by recovery; and in 1884 Bull’s. In the latter year Parkes delivered his memorable address, as Chairman of the Surgical Section of the American Medical Association, in which were detailed the results of many experiments upon dogs, and in which direct operative interference was advised and urged. Since then numerous operations have been done, many papers have been published, and voluminous statistics have been collected, among others by Korte, Morton, Barrow, Martin and Hare, Reclus and Nogues, and Coley. By not a few surgeons operation in every case has been advised, while some have advocated abstention in all cases. Neither of these extreme views should be accepted. Operative inter- ference has been adopted sufficiently often to show not only its propriety but its necessity in very many cases. As a condition precedent to the determination of its place and value, the mortality rate of cases not operated upon should be ascertained. This with respect to those anti- septically treated has not as yet been done, except in a very limited way. Calculations based upon reports of military and civil practice prior to a few years ago, have but little present worth. In military operations the bullets were large and easily deformable, and the wounded came comparatively late under care; and in the treatment of all cases protection from septic infection from without was very im- perfect. Of 23 patients treated without operation at the Chambers Street, New York, and Roosevelt Hospitals, in the years 1876-1884, 15 died, or 65 per cent. (Stimson) In the five years immediately preceding May, 1887, of 32 patients in the Charity Hospital of New Orleans 19 died, or 59.4 per cent. (T. G. Richardson). Of 91 cases collected by Reclus and Nogues, but 22 ended in death, or 24 per cent. At least a partial explanation of the extraordinarily low death-rate in this last-mentioned set of cases is to be found in the fact that it is com- piled chiefly from journal reports, always largely those of fortunate and exceptional cases, and further that, in many instances, the symptoms VOL. VII.—8