91 SEPTICAEMIA. to differentiate closely between the two affections in question, and we find, therefore, in modern treatises, the expression septico-pysemia, which includes both. Septicaemia. Septicaemia is an affection of the general system, which originates by the reception into the body of the products of putrefaction, and is characterized by a certain change in the blood, a typical series of in- flammatory processes, and a continued fever with typical nervous symptoms. It usually does not lead to the occurrence of metastatic suppuration, which is characteristic of pyaemia, nosologicallv so closely connected with it. It is a remarkable feature in the history of the literature of these allied affections that most of it was written when its authors necessarily knew least about the subject, mainly between the years 1820 and 1880. It is true that the writers of those times knew practically and clinically a good deal more than we do in these days; on the other hand, it did not help them much to observe daily, again and again, those unfortunate cases of sepsis, pyaemia, and hospital fever, as long as it did not lead them to a correct conception of their etiology. Most clever and most absurd ideas were brought forward in explanation of these, and it might make a man despair of the develop- ment of human science to see how the most ingenious writers were un- able for years to anticipate their real cause, and, if we had not the practical proof of the correctness of our modern views, in the possibility of avoiding these wound-complications, it would be only natural to question their finality. Etiology.—The etiology of septicaemia probably was closely studied before that of all other wound infections. Virchow, Billroth, C. 0. Weber, and others experimentally produced septicaemia by inoculation of putrid material into the vascular system or into the tissues, and it was the development of sepsis which led to the acknowledgment of the importance of micro-organisms, which were first recognized as producers of fermentation and putrefaction. Panum, of Denmark, showed that analogous septic diseases could also be produced by the injection of boiled putrid fluids, that is, after all the micro-organisms which were originally contained in them had been destroyed, so that only their toxic products could remain. Therefore we distinguish now two differing principal forms of septicaemia, one caused by schizo- mycetes, and the other by chemical toxines in solution. The first form, produced by the presence of bacteria, is an infectious disease, transferable to other individuals; if we inject the blood of animals thus affected into others, we reproduce the affection. The virulence of the blood increases with the number of intermediate links, that is, with the frequency with which the disease is transferred from one animal to an- other (Coze, Faltz, Davaine, Magendie, Petrone, and others). The blood in the second form of septiciemia, which is produced by chemical poisons in solution or in volatile form, that is, by the toxines produced by the schizomycetes, is not infectious, any more than is the blood of an individual poisoned with strychnia or prussic acid. Personally, I fail to see the marked difference between these two