RACHITIS. 150 symptoms, are often overlooked, so that the physician is not summoned, or, if he be summoned, and have not given particular attention to this disease, he, in not a few instances, does not detect its presence. In the absence of deformity which occurs late, the fretfulness, tenderness of surface, and perspiration, are likely to he attributed to other causes than the correct one. Hence, according to my observation, rachitis is more common in its milder forms in the asylums, dispensaries, and tenement houses of New York, and probably in other American cities, than is commonly believed by the public, and even by physicians who have given little attention to the disease. A few years since, in one of the New York asylums, my attention was directed to a rachitic child in whom the anatomical changes of rachitis had become so- pronou ced that they attracted the attention of the nurses. Prompted by the occurrence of this case, which had developed during my attendance in the asy- lum, I made an examination of all the infants, and found, what I had previously not suspected, that about one in nine presented unmistakable signs of rachitis, though in a mild form and for the most part in its commencement. The late Dr. John S. Parry, of Philadelphia, stated that at least 28 per cent, of all the children, between the ages of one month and five years, who came under his ob- servation in the Philadelphia Hosp>ital during the three years preceding the pub- lication of his paper in 1872, were rachitic.1 According to Dr. Gee, whose ob- servations were, however, made as far back as 1867 and 1868, of the patients under the age of two years in the London Hospital for sick children, 30.3 per cent, were rachitic; and Ritter von Rittershain, whose observations were also' made several years ago, declared that of 1623 out-door patients under the age of five years brought to the clinic at Prague, 504, or 31.1 per cent., manifested this disease. Recently Professor Henoch, of the University of Berlin, has stated that he has seen many thousand cases of rachitis, and he adds that its spread in the large cities of Northern and Middle Europe is enormous. He says that his observations in regard to the frequency of rachitis in dispensary practice corre- spond with those of Ritter, as many as 31 per cent, being rachitic.2 In Man- chester, also, with its large number of operatives, Ritchie’s statistics show that of 728 outdoor patients 219 were rachitic.3 The curator of the New York Found- ling Asylum for the last ten years informs me that he believes, but without the accuracy of statistics, that as many as 20 per cent, of the cases examined by him in the dead-house have presented the anatomical characters of rachitis, though usually in a mild form. The recent large immigration from Europe of destitute families, living from choice or necessity in filth and degradation, who for the most part remain in the cities, occupying small, dark, and dirty apart- ments, and whose food is of the poorest quality and often insufficient, greatly increases the number of rachitic children in New York and probably in other American cities. In the outdoor department of Bellevue Hospital, to which many thousand immigrants from the lowest class of European society carry their sick children for treat- ment, rachitis is frequent, and the fact has been observed in this institution that a larger proportion of severe cases, attended by marked deformities, occurs in the Italian families than in those from other parts of Europe. In families of American parentage it is gen- erally admitted that rachitis is more prevalent in the negro than in the white race. 1 Amer. Jour, of Med. Sci., January and April, 1872. 2 Vorlesungen liber Kinderkrankeiten. Berlin, 1892. 3 Medical Times and Gazette..