820 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. results of pleuritic inflammations. From whatever cause, the effused material will not always partake of the exact characters of either serum or pus. When it is of traumatic origin, the fluid is more or less stained with blood, which in nearly all cases is at first poured into the pleura. When of purely inflammatory origin, the fluid is almost colorless, or of a light straw color, often containing flocculent masses of lymph. The pus in an empyema is not like the healthy pus discharged from an abscess. It is rather puriform, containing masses of unhealthy lymph, often stained with blood and of a very offensive odor, and its escape is not infrequently accompanied by the discharge of offensive gases. The rapidity with which serum may be poured into the chest is remarkable, twenty-four hours being sufficient time to allow the pleural sac to be- come distended with serum after an acute pleurisy, while equally rapid effusion will often be noticed in the daily discharge from an empyema which has been drained. On the other hand, collections of fluid may accumulate so quietly and gradually as to cause no uneasiness or distress until the chest-wall has become distended and the lungs compressed. In this class of cases the disease is usually of tubercular origin, and is accompanied with great thickening of the pleura, which is occasionally encrusted with lime salts, transforming it into a cartilaginoid or bone-like substance. A pleuritic effusion may suddenly become purulent by the rupture of a pulmonary or hepatic abscess into the pleural sac. The rational signs of fluid collections within the pleural sac are dysp- noea, often accompanied with a short grunting sound—the patient usu- ally resting upon the affected side—and rapidity and weakness of the pulse, which is greatly accelerated by the slightest exertion. The physical signs are enlargement of the affected side, with bulg- ing of the intercostal spaces; a dull percussion note over the seat of effusion, most marked at the base of the chest, continuing up to the level of the fluid collection with the patient in the erect posture, and varying according to changes in his position. If the fluid he sufficiently thin, a sudden jar to the thorax will cause a distinct splash, which may be heard and felt. Displacement of the heart to the right side is fre- quently noticed if the opposite side is affected. All respiratory sounds are greatly modified or entirely lost; absence of vocal resonance is among the most prominent of the physical signs. The diagnosis may readily be verified by the use of the aspirator or exploring needle. In carrying out this simple operation the strictest antiseptic precautions must he taken, as many serous effusions have become purulent by their neglect. Treatment.—In dealing with large, serous effusions, too much de- pendence is often placed upon the power of a diseased pleura to absorb a large quantity of fluid, and in consequence the practitioner is too backward to puncture the chest for these collections, since a large quan- tity of fluid cannot rest within the pleura without causing serious com- pression of the lungs, and if on the left side, displacement of the heart and great vessels. For the removal of fluid collections within the pleural cavity the operation of paracentesis is performed, either for diagnostic purposes or to relieve the tension, permitting the lung to expand. There is little doubt that many of the unsatisfactory results following this operation are caused by waiting for a diseased and thickened pleura to