970 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. of herpes zoster or shingles. The latter disease, however, is not apt to be mistaken for the former. It rarely if ever affects solely the glans and prepuce, and is distinguished by the accompanying pain and by the eruption involving the adjoining parts of one side. Phimosis.—It is undoubted that many symptoms, particularly of a nervous kind, and more or less obscure in character, may arise from a condition of phimosis. Bruce Smith1 gives cases of convulsions and chorea which are said to have been cured by circumcision. Solon Chro- matianos, a Greek surgeon, had the following curious case.2 A cavalry officer, aged fifty-eight, after having had a balano-posthitis, became affected with extreme phimosis. The urine ballooned the prepuce and could only be expelled by violent efforts. He then had complete par- esis of the sphincter vesicse, and urine dribbled constantly. He also presented well-developed ataxic symptoms, as instability of movement, disturbances of sensibility of the soles of his feet, and impossibility of walking backward, while on closing his eyes, or in the dark, he would totter. Patellar reflexes were abolished and pupils fixed. The urine was normal. Circumcision was done, and a large sound was introduced with ease. In forty days he not only had normal urination but could make long marches, the patellar reflexes had reappeared, and the pupils acted normally. The occurrence of cases such as the above has caused many physicians to resort to circumcision with great freedom, as a means of treatment for slight ailments, or to prevent the dire consequences supposed to necessarily follow a more or less marked contraction of the prepuce. That this operation has been done in too large a proportion of cases is my firm belief, and also that the evil results attributed to the condition present have been and often are overestimated. In infancy and child- hood phimosis is a natural condition. How few are the cases seen in adults compared with those seen in children! Nature herself takes care of this condition, and it is only in a few instances that the sur- geon’s assistance is required. Treatment.—When the prepuce is long and contracted, projecting far beyond the glans and becoming constantly inflamed, then it may be shortened or the orifice may be dilated. In infancy, particularly, it will oftentimes be sufficient to dilate the orifice with a pair of forceps, loosen the adherent prepuce from the glans by means of the flat end of a probe, retract the skin, cleanse the parts, and anoint them with boric- acid ointment. The prepuce is then again drawn forward, and the mother is instructed to repeat the application twice daily; being cau- tioned to be sure and draw the prepuce forward, since otherwise, as I have seen in one case, a paraphimosis may be produced which will re- quire immediate attention. In children, extensive operations are not required, and the removal of too much tissue, causing the glans to appear like a projecting button on the pubes, as I have seen, is to be carefully guarded against. In cases, even in infancy, in which there is quite a small opening sur- rounded by a firm sharp edge, the simple procedure of dilating, as described above, will not be advisable; slitting up or even a formal circumcision is preferable, as otherwise the opening will again con- ' Canada Lancet, 1891-92, vol. xxiv., p. 196. 2 Le Progres Medical, No. 15, 1893.