62 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. rubber. Glass and decalcified, absorbable bone tubes, which have been used as substitutes for India-rubber, are not as well adapted for the purposes of drainage as the latter. A drainage-tube should be elastic and flexible, so that it may not exert pressure upon the soft parts through which it passes. The absorbability of bone tubes is, moreover, a very uncertain factor, as pointed out by Neuber himself, the tube sometimes being absorbed too soon, but more frequently lying in wounds an unnecessary length of time Strips of gauze cannot always afford proper drainage for deep wounds. To render India-rubber tubes aseptic, they should be boiled in water for several minutes, and then be placed in a 5-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid, not in sublimate solu- tions. They can be sterilized a few times in boiling water without injury. Bandages, aprons, and towels used during operations should be sterilized by steam in the manner already described for dressings, in preference to moistening them with antiseptic lotions. Care should be especially taken not to apply wet towels immediately to the body of the patient, as in a serious and lengthy operation the loss of heat which this would entail might very perceptibly increase the shock. Dressing Wounds.—I have now described the materials which the surgeon who practises modern aseptic wound-treatment employs. It seems customary of late with writers on this subject to emphasize the simplicity which obtains in the technique of modern wound-treatment, when compared with the original Listerian system. What this asser- tion is in reality based upon, is not apparent. The disinfection of hands and field of operation has become a much more complicated procedure; our instruments must be boiled, whereas formerly they were only placed in a carbolic solution; and the preparation of sterilized dress- ings, bandages, gowns, etc., and of iodoform gauze, as practised to-day, cannot well be termed a simplification in technique. The state- ment is better made of another part of wound-treatment, namely, the frequency with which wounds are dressed. That infrequent dressing of wounds was desirable under all conditions, was soon recognized in the new antiseptic era, and it has been the endeavor of surgeons to develop this idea in many ways. Even to-day some difference of opinion still prevails as to how this may best be accomplished, more especially in regard to the entire or only partial abolition of drainage in aseptic surgery. Neuber was the first to emphasize the importance of perma- nent dressings (Dauerverbande) and to elaborate, after many years of trial, a system of wound-treatment based upon this principle. That every dressing causes more or less irritation in wounds, and, at least theoretically, exposes the wound to the risk of infection, cannot be denied. That great differences, however, exist in the amount of irri- tation, according to the location and nature of the wound, must also be granted. Thus, for example, a change of dressings soon after opera- tion at the knee-joint, where it is difficult to avoid motion even with the greatest care, will more likely be followed by local or general dis- turbance than such a change after extirpation of a lipoma, say of the back. But, even allowing some individualization in this regard, the principle that strict indications for each change of dressing should exist, is now universally acknowledged.