INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 384 injection of blood serum from other animals affected with tetanus. Tizzoni and Cattani, moreover, have prepared from the blood serum of animals thus rendered immune, a substance called tetanus anti toxine. This substance, injected hypodermically, is said to have cured a number of cases of tetanus in human beings. Schwarz, Taruffi, Casali, Moritz, and others have reported such cases. Tetanus Hydrophobicus.—According to Rose and others, there occurs a peculiar form of tetanus after certain injuries to the regions sup- plied by the cranial nerves. In this form of the disease, which is some- times known as cephalic tetanus, there occur trismus, paralysis of the facial nerve, and spasms of the pharyngeal muscles; from the last-named symptoms, owing to their resemblance to hydrophobia, the disease has been called tetanus hydrophobicus. Klemm recognizes twTo forms of tetanus following injuries in the regions supplied by the cranial nerves: in the first, the muscles in the neighborhood of the injury first become affected, and the process spreads thence; in the second, there is paraly- sis of the facial nerve as well as tetanic contractions of the muscles of the face. There are an acute and a chronic form of tetanus hydrophobi- cus, the former being far more fatal. Brunner has produced the disease in animals by inoculations of pure cultures of tetanus bacilli; he denies that there is palsy of the facial nerve, and says that the contractions of the muscles produce an asymmetry of the face which makes it appear as though there was paralysis, and that the facial paralysis is an error of observation. It may be considered settled, however, that there is a form of tetanus in which facial paralysis exists, usually upon the in- jured side, as numerous careful observers have noted it. Ptosis also has been noted in several cases. The cause of the paralysis is not definitely known. Rose attributes it to swelling and inflammation of the nerve in the Fallopian canal, but autopsies fail to confirm this view. Gowers says that it is reflex. Nearly all the autopsies have given negative results; in one case there were found vacuoles in the cells at the origin of the facial and trifacial nerves. In America this form of the disease seems to be less common than in Europe: during the Civil War there were 21 cases of tetanus follow- ing head injuries, yet paralysis of the facial nerve was not observed. Tetany.—This disease is usually regarded as a neurosis, which mani- fests itself by tonic spasms, more especially of the muscles of the limbs, accompanied by increased excitability of the peripheral nerves, and, in many cases, by pain, elevation of temperature, various parsesthesise, and vasomotor disturbances. Of peculiar interest to the surgeon is the fact that it very often follows complete removal of the thyroid gland, as was first shown by N. Weiss and as has since been confirmed by nu- merous investigators. Of this so-called “post-operative tetany,” von Eiselsberg reports 12 cases, all in females, occurring in 53 cases of com- plete removal of the thyroid gland by Billroth; of these 12, 8 ended in death, 2 became chronic, and but 2 terminated in recovery. In 109 partial extirpations of the thyroid gland, tetany did not occur. Von Eiselsberg also made experiments upon more than 100 cats, and draws the conclusion that total removal of the thyroid gland gives rise to