41 WOUNDS. of the divided nerve has been filled by granulation tissue, and into this the young nerve fibres now grow. The result of their exertion to reach the distal end through the intervening tissue is dependent on the den- sity of the latter and upon the distance which has to be travelled. Five centimetres is mentioned as the limit, hut occasionally a distance of two centimetres is sufficient to prevent union, and then the ingrowing nerve fibres are lost in the surrounding tissues and do not reach the peripheral end of the nerve. But when they do meet it, the remaining nerve sheaths, containing the products of degeneration of the old nerve fibre, simply indicate the paths along which the further development of the new fibres proceeds. It is not likely that the new fibres enter the old nerve sheaths on the distal side. The majority again perforate the epineurium and perineurium, and then, continuing on their way toward the periphery, become so grouped that they more and more take on the appearance of normal peripheral nerves. The time occu- pied in the regeneration varies from one to twenty months. Bone and Cartilage.—The regenerative power of cartilage is very small, that of bone very large. Loss of substance in cartilage is gen- erally repaired by the interposition of connective tissue. The regener- ation of bone has been very carefully observed during the healing of subcutaneous fractures. The production of embryonic tissue is here due to an activity in the periosteum and in the marrow at the seat of fracture. The nuclei in the cells of these tissues show karyokinetic changes a few days after the lesion, and very soon a generous formation of embryonic tissue is observed, especially from the innermost or osteo- blastic layer of the periosteum. This embryonic tissue is ultimately transformed into osteoid tissue resembling in all respects normal bone tissue. The change takes place in the following manner: A homoge- neous or finely fibrillated ground substance between the formative cells at first appears, derived, in part at least, from the protoplasm of the os- teoblasts. Further on, this mass becomes impregnated with lime salts, and, after the disappearance of the greater number of osteoblasts, arranges itself around such as remain in lamellae, thus assuming the microscopical appearance of normal bone tissue. The impregnation with lime salts does not, however, occur uniformly throughout all the embryonic tissue, and those parts which are not transformed into osteoid are transformed into medullary tissue. Occasionally the em- bryonic cells furnish cartilaginous tissue, which is also finally trans- formed into bone. All these various transformative processes can be observed in one and the same fracture. At the end of the second or third week the ends of the bone are united by a mass of spongy tissue lying beneath the periosteum and within the medullary canal, which gradually becomes more firm by the apposition of more osteoid tissue. We speak, at this stage, of an external, an internal, and an intermedi- ary callus, the first two derived from the periosteum and medullary tissue respectively, the intermediate callus being considered a product of both, or, by some, of the periosteum only. This provisional callus is to a great extent absorbed during the following months, the absorption occurring simultaneously with apposition of new osseous material in other parts of the callus. Absorption and apposition follow certain laws and do not occur at random. The former takes place at those points at which, from the nature of the displacement always present to