519 DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. ter counter-extension bands, attached to the thigh, pull upward and are buckled to the outside and inside uprights, the straps passing through the thigh lacing. In addition to this extending plaster pulling upward on the thigh, counter-extension to the downward pull is fur- nished by the perineal band in the groin, which also protects the leg from weight-bearing in walking, being, just as the hip splint is, a peri- neal crutch. The splint is applied, adjusted at any angle that suits the diseased limb, and the perineal band is then strapped and the upward thigh extension buckled. Then the straps from the calf extension plas- ter are passed around the windlass and tightened. This pulls directly upon the knee-joint, tending to distract the joint surfaces. Then the leather lacings are tightened, serving to prevent motion at the knee, which is being pulled upon in the line of deformity, and all the time, except in the severest cases, the patient may go about freely walking upon the bottom of the splint. The splint is rather complex, and therefore expensive, but it can be made by almost any machinist if the surgeon knows just what is wanted, and is in every way the best and most useful splint for the purpose. Excision of the knee is to be regarded as a mode of treatment in- ferior to the mechanical methods just mentioned, or as a treatment to be adopted when mechanical measures have failed, or are not likely to be of use on account of the advanced stage of the disease. The operation necessarily entails a loss of bony substance, and short- ening, and in the case of young children the injury to the epiphysis may be a very important matter in causing serious injury to the growth of the limb.1 Mechanical treatment on the other hand in suit- able cases produces excellent results, in the milder cases often restor- ing perfect motion. In most cases which are under control and not ad- vanced when the treatment is begun, mechanical measures suffice to cure the disease. This remark of course applies chiefly to children, for in the case of adults tuberculous disease of bone offers a less favor- able outlook than in childhood. Considering then excision as a mode of treatment to be adopted only in advanced cases, and where mechanical treatment has failed, the question of the mortality rate of the operation becomes of the first importance. The advent of antiseptic surgery lias produced a most striking change in this matter. Ollier’s2 mortality fell from 80 to 1-4 per cent, after antiseptic precautions were adopted. Meusing 3 found in 80 cases that:—• 1. Before antiseptic surgery the mortality was 33 per cent. 2. After antiseptic surgery was introduced the mortality was 8.5 per cent. 3. After the introduction of permanent dressings the mortality was 2 per cent. Phelps gives the mortalit}T in 329 cases treated antiseptically as 9.42 per cent.4 The latest statistics with regard to resection of the knee may perhaps be quoted from Lossen.5 Of 586 patients who had had resection of the 1 Hoffa, Archiv f. klin. Chirurgie, Bd. xxxii., S. 4. 2 Bevue de Chirurgie, 1884, p. 157. 3 Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1883, No. 49. 4 Phelps, Trans. N. Y. State Med. Society, 1886, p. 586. 5 Deutsche Chirurgie. Lief. 29, b.