153 TREATMENT OF RACHITIS. proper attention to cleanliness in its manipulation, may not require sterilization by heat. But that received and used in the city, exposed more or less to an atmosphere containing numerous microbes, it is well to sterilize by subjecting it to a heat of from 105° to 1GT° F., for a period not exceeding twenty minutes. For infants with feeble diges- tion it may be well also to peptonize the milk by the use of peptogenic powder, in the manner well known to the profession. A properly pre- pared farinaceous substance mixed with the milk has not only nutritive properties, but by mechanically separating the particles of casein tends to prevent the formation of curds in the stomach. But as young in- fants digest starch with difficulty, a flour should be chosen, such as barley or oatmeal, in which the starch is to a great extent converted hito dextrin, or better into grape sugar. The conversion into dextrin and into grape-sugar may be effected by the action of the diastase of malt. I am in the habit of employing barley flour subjected to the heat of boiling water seven days, and adding about ten drops of dias- tase to the gruel of one feeding. The gruel thus prepared, and mixed with sterilized or peptonized milk, is a suitable food for rachitic in- fants. The theory of Cheadle and others that the most common dietetic error which produces rachitis is a deficiency of fat, and that those rachitic patients do best who are allowed an increase of fat as well as of the proteids in their food, is sufficiently established to influence treat- ment. The upper half or third of the milk obtained from the bottle or can, is preferable to the lower portion, inasmuch as it contains more cream. Meat soups, properly prepared according to the age, are useful addi- tions to the diet. I have elsewhere stated that, in one of the institu- tions of New York, rachitis from being common was made to disappear almost entirely b}T allowing a more generous diet, a part of which was the daily use, but in moderate quantity, of beef tea. I have employed with apparent good results beef tea prepared as follows: Add half a pound of beef finely hashed to one pint of cold water, and add ten drops of dilute muriatic acid. Allow it to stand cold for half an hour, with fre- quent stirring; then place it upon the table in a pail or large pan of boiling water, so as to heat it without coagulating the albumin. In an hour it is ready for use. The beef should be carefully selected, so that it does not contain the germs of the tape-worm. The peptonized beef of the shops is also a useful preparation. After the first year, the proportion of farinaceous food, employed with milk, a soft-boiled egg, and light meat-teas, may be gradually increased. In and after the second year, also, easily digested vegetables, well cooked, the juice of the orange, and succulent fruits such as the baked apple, or raw apple scraped and carefully separated from skin and seeds, may be allowed in moderation. In an address delivered at the meeting of the Section of Diseases of Children of the British Medical Association, August, 1888, Dr. W. B. Cheadle said: “ The diet of a rickety child should be carefully examined to ascertain if it contain a due proportion of fat, proteids, and salt. • It will be found that it is or has been defective, and it should be at once placed at the correct standard, so that the animal fat equals one-fourth of the total solids, the proteid one-third, the carbohydrates a little over one-third, and the salts about one-tenth. For a little infant these