HERNIA. 888 quently simulate hernial tumors; or, as before said, the ovary, and rarely the Fallopian tube, may be in the canal. Diagnosis and Treatment of Femoral Hernia.—This form of hernia is more difficult to retain in place with a truss, which apparatus pro- duces more discomfort also than when worn for inguinal hernia. It is more likely to become incarcerated and strangulated than any other variety, and its prognosis is, therefore, more unfavorable. The diag- nosis depends upon the presence of a tumor in the location already de- scribed, the neck of the tumor being traceable to an opening at the inner side of the thigh, just external to the spine of the pubis, and be- low Poupart’s ligament. The impulse in coughing is present, though usually less perceptible than in inguinal hernia. Cysts are less apt to complicate a femoral than an inguinal hernia. Enlargement of the lymphatic glands will not be apt to mislead, since there will have been a history of adenitis and a gradual increase in the size of the glands, which may be recognized as a group. The absence of impulse in the act of coughing will further aid in the exclusion of hernia. The symptoms of strangulation differ in no essential features from those in inguinal hernia. A reducible femoral hernia should be retained within the abdomen by a truss, the pad of which presses firmly over the femoral ring, just external to the spine of the pubis. The pad should be hard and small, so that it may not compress the femoral vein, and the spring should be strong, for this form of hernia is not only difficult to retain, but is doubly dangerous when it escapes by the side of the pad. In reducing femoral hernia, position is invaluable, and taxis may be of aid. The best position without taxis is the knee-shoulder posture, in which the abdominal muscles and fascia lata are relaxed, and in which the con- tents of the abdomen gravitate toward the diaphragm. Or the dorsal decubitus may suffice, with the pelvis elevated as well as the foot of the bed, and with the thighs flexed upon the abdomen. In performing taxis, it must be remembered that the bulk of the hernia must pass directly backward to clear the falciform process of the fascia lata, and then up- ward in the direction of the femoral canal. The nature of the opera- tion for the radical cure of femoral hernia may be determined by the general rules given for the inguinal variety. If the sac is large a por- tion of it may be cut away, the remainder being carried to the inner aspect of the abdominal wall near Gimbernat’s ligament, and being anchored there in the same general way as described for the treatment of the sac by the Macewen method. In the effort to close the femoral ring, kangaroo-tendon and next in order silk sutures are preferable, and care must be taken to avoid the femoral or iliac vein which is almost in contact with the hernia at the outer edge of the crural canal. In irreducible (not strangulated) femoral hernia operative interference is more positively indicated than in inguinal hernia, from the fact that strangulation is very apt to occur, and that the employment of a com- press to prevent a further descent of the mass is harmful. In strangulated femoral hernia operative interference is indicated immediately upon the first manifestation of this condition. So rapid are the changes which occur in the contents of the sac, that early opera- tion, always commendable in every form of strangulated hernia, is im-