798 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES AND (ESOPHAGUS. pieces of ice, or ice cream, allowing these to melt in the mouth, with the application of an ice bag or a Leiter coil with iced water about the neck. As soon as the presence of pus is detected, the use of the knife is promptly required. An emetic will occasionally, in children, be suf- ficient to rupture the abscess, but such a procedure is not without dan- ger from the pus entering the larynx. Some writers advise the open- ing of the abscess with a trocar and canula, but if proper precautions are taken this will he unnecessary. The danger of the pus entering the larynx has, in my opinion, been largely exaggerated, for if proper precautions are taken such a result can hardly occur. An essential feature of the operation is to quickly lower the head, as soon as the incision has been made, so that the pus may flow upward to the mouth. An admirable plan is to place the patient on his stom- ach on a high table, one end of which can be raised to an angle of about forty-five degrees, with the head downward, projecting over the edge. This position is convenient for the operator, and more comfort- able for the patient than to allow the head and upper extremities to hang over the table with the head downward. As soon as the punc- ture has been made the pus gushes downward and out of the mouth. Children may be held on the lap and quickly reversed as soon as the cut is made. In abscess of the upper pharynx an ordinary bistoury may be used, but in deeper abscesses the pharyngotome is more advisable. ■ It should have a more rounded curve than is usually given to the laryngeal lancet. The tumor is first covered by the finger of the left hand, and the knife is guided along the finger until the proper point has been reached. It is then inserted and a free incision is made. With a finger guard on the left forefinger the tongue may be depressed at the same time that the knife is guided, and in this way the use of a tongue depressor, which has been strongly recommended, may be altogether dispensed with. It has been advised by some to chloroform the patient, but this is not only unnecessary but even dangerous, as he will need his faculties to assist the operator.