ETIOLOGY. 225 has been seen at from 75 to 83 years of age (case of Bouisson), with slow growth and no secondary tumors. Carcinoma of the uterus has been found at 8 years (Ganghofner), and even at 2 years of age (Rosenstein), and sarcoma of the same organ at 3 (Smith), while sarcoma of the vagina has been observed several times in infants. Carcinoma of the rectum has been observed at IT years in 2 cases, and even at 12 (Allingham), and 11 (Stern). Carcinoma of the penis has frequently been observed at less than 25 years, and of the kidney at 21. Thompson has found 7 cases of cancer of the prostate under 1<> years of age, Tordens reports one in an infant of 9 months, and Wyss finds that when that organ has been attacked, 35 per cent, (of 2J patients) were under 10 years; hut Thompson’s 7 cases are included among these 21, and in case of error on his part this statement would he greatly altered. Carcinoma of the testicle has been seen at 18 months (Schlegtendal) and at 6 years of age (Jacubascli). A large epithelioma of the scalp developing in the cicatrix of a burn, and per- forating the skull, has been recorded by Braun, and I have seen a case almost identical. Braun’s case began at 11 years, mine at about 8. Carcinoma has been observed in the pylorus at 17 (Foster), and even 11 years of age (Scheffer), and in the small intestine at 3|- years (Dun- can). Sarcoma of the intestine has been observed at 5 years (Stern), and twice at 7 years of age, and in the urinary bladder sarcoma has been seen at 5 (Chiara), and even at less than 2 years (Dittrich). Israel observed carcinoma of the kidney as early as 21, and in the pan- creas it has been found at 13. It might be hoped that the study of tumors which occur in the foetus, and are found alread}^ present at birth, would have added something to our knowledge of their etiology, but it has not materially done so, although the facts discovered have great interest. First, when the mother has malignant disease it would not be very strange to find it in the new-born infant, but curiously enough children under such circum- stances are very rarely affected. Friedreich reports the case of a wo- man with multiple scirrhous nodules in uterus, liver, mammae, bone, intestine, etc. (primary in liver), who died soon after the birth of a child which lived only six days, and bore on the skin over one patella a tumor of exactly the same scirrhous structure, but with no metastases. It should be noted that there was no tumor on the inside of the uterus, and none in the placenta. Secondly, it is in accordance with our ideas of certain tumors of undoubted foetal origin, that they should be present and of sufficiently large size to attract attention at birth. Besides the various dermoid cysts, there are the numerous tumors of the sacral and coccygeal region, many of which are true teratomata, or even monsters either parasitic or included, and also the congenital cysts, and the hairy polypi of the pharynx. Ott collected eight cases of these polypi, and was convinced that they should he classified with the teratomata. Rather stranger is it when we find the ordinary benign tumors oc- curring in this way. But Jipomci is quite common, even excluding the diffuse fatty hypertrophy—fatty overgrowth combined with degenera- tion affecting all the tissues of a limb, even the bones being increased in size. Congenital lipomata are usually deep-seated, adherent to bones, tendons, and nerves, and encapsulated, though Jacobi denies this; in fact, Plettner found that one-fifth of the one hundred cases VOL. VII.—15