RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. 791 In small children an abscess may be mistaken for croup, when situ- ated near the larynx. This will especially be the case when it is situated in the laryngo-pharynx, in which case the stridulous breathing will resemble that seen in croup. There is, however, this difference: the dyspnoea and stridor of the abscess are constant and are not subject to the remissions which are usual in laryngeal croup. The voice also re- tains its tone, although it may be husky, and croupy cough is absent. Difficulty of swallowing will also be a marked symptom in abscess which produces stenotic symptoms, and this would be wanting in croup. Various other pathological conditions of the larynx, including laryn- geal oedema, inflammation, and growths, may simulate a pharyngeal abscess, but an inspection with a laryngeal mirror will establish the diagnosis. The differential diagnosis between abscess from caries of the vertebrae and that which results from idiopathic phlegmonous inflammation or from suppuration of the lymphatic glands, will be found in the history of the case. Idiopathic abscess due to phlegmonous inflammation usu- ally runs a rapid course, and suppuration is manifested in a few days. Abscess from lymphangeitis is somewhat slower, hut its acute char- acter is manifest. In caries of the vertebrae tenderness of the affected vertebrae is present, and the abscess is slowly developed, sometimes as- suming the characteristics of cold abscess. Prognosis.— The prognosis of retropharyngeal abscess depends strictly upon its cause. The idiopathic abscess, whether the result of phlegmonous inflammation or of glandular disease, will, in the vast ma- jority of cases, give a rapid recovery after incision and emptying of the sac, and spontaneous evacuation of the pus will he followed by an equally happy result. According to Bokai, out of 129 cases of pharyn- geal abscess only 5 proved fatal. In adults recovery is the rule, al- though a fatal result has been noted by some observers. Rupture of the abscess, with an entrance of pus into tfle larynx and air-passages, has been followed by pneumonia. Several writers have reported cases of rupture of the. carotid artery and fatal hemorrhage. (Edema of the glottis may be the result of an abscess through extension of the inflammation. The prognosis in a case due to caries of the vertebrae is most unfavorable. Syme reports a case in which recovery took place after exfoliation of the greater part of the second cervical vertebra, and Gunther reports recovery after the removal of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. Such recoveries must be rare. Roe makes a point which is worthy of further observation when he maintains that in certain cases of abscess associated with superficial caries of the ver- tebrae, the caries may he the result simply of pressure of the pus sac. In such a case evacuation should give permanent relief. An analogous condition is seen in caries of the vertebrae from the pressure of an aneurismal tumor. Treatment.—The treatment of retropharyngeal abscess consists in evacuation of the pus, as soon as the proper time for the operation has arrived. In the earlier stages, hot soothing drinks and the use of ano- dyne sedative inhalations give a certain amount of relief. A gargle of hot water with bicarbonate of sodium, and the application of a hot cataplasm about the neck are grateful. Some prefer the use of cold applications in the earlier stages, and advise the employment of small