INJURIES ANI) DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 814 the diaphragm at its attachment to the ninth rib and had crossed the upper por- tion of the abdominal cavity, piercing the left crus of the diaphragm, and rest- ing in the areolar tissue in front of the spine. In its passage it entered the epiploic appendages of the colon, penetrated the jejunum about three feet from its be- ginning, cut off almost the entire tail of the pancreas, and removed a wedged- shaped piece from the upper border of the left kidney. The abdominal cavity was filled with blood-clots. In this case enlargement of the wound and careful exploration had failed to give any definite information as to the course of the ball. Complications of Chest Wounds and their Sequels.—Hernia of the lung, or pneumocele, is produced by a portion of the lung insinu- ating itself through the lips of the chest wound. This may be immedi- ate, or it may follow after several months, the protrusion overcoming the resistance of an insufficient cicatrix. The cause of this rare con- dition, as suggested by Agnew, is possibly the unusually deep fissures in the lungs of some persons, leaving a pendulous portion or edge which finds its way through an external break or opening in the chest- walls. Primary pneumocele is easily recognized by its crepitating character. When the hernia is secondary, and covered by integument, a marked change will be noticeable during respiration, the tumor alternately increasing and diminishing in size. In an unusually large hernia of the lung under my care the tumor was compressible and markedly crepitant, with a distinct, clear percussion note, and on auscultation gave an unusually loud rasping murmur. If an acute pneumocele is non-adherent, it should be thoroughly cleansed and, if possible, restored to the chest-cavity and retained there by suitable compresses. When adherent and projecting through a wound, it is likely to become strangulated by the entrance of blood and air, in which case it will soon slough off. It will be found best to anticipate this occurrence and transfix its base with a double ligature, as deeply as may he found necessary. In secondary pneumocele the swelling may be protected with a suitable shield retained by a bandage. Emphysema has already been referred to several times. By this term is meant the presence of air in the cellular tissue outside of the chest- wall. If no external wound is present, it is diagnostic of injury of the lung. As before stated, in external wounds it is frequently seen with- out wound of the lung, but usually to a limited extent except when the costal pleura is opened, when the air enters through a valve-like opening in the skin, and is then forced back into the cellular tissue. The emphysema in thoracic wounds may be of such an extent as to extend all over the body, rendering the features unrecognizable, the scalp and the palmar and plantar surfaces of the extremities alone being exempt. The looser and more delicate the skin the more distended it becomes; it remains soft and is not discolored, and when touched there is a soft, crackling sensation under the finger as the bubbles of air are driven through the meshes of the areolar tissue. The same thing is met with in the early stages of gangrene when decomposition has begun. Emphysema is not dangerous, except when it is so extensive as to inter- fere with respiration, or if the air be infected, when it may give rise to cellulitis or erysipelas, or even gangrene. Emphysema generally re- quires no treatment, as the air is soon absorbed, passing into the blood and through the skin by osmosis. When it is very extensive and