720 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF NOSE AND ACCESSORY SINUSES. very easily overdone here as elsewhere in the naso-pharynx. The neo- plastic glands may take on sarcomatous changes, speedily terminating the life of the individual, apparently as a result of too energetic treat- ment.1 Hemorrhage may be alarming and difficult to arrest, or serious Eustachian salpingitis and purulent otitis, with any of its complica- tions, may result from too heroic surgery. Chronic atrophy of the pharyngeal tonsil with its annoying and almost incurable symptoms may also be brought about by the radical ablation advocated in certain text-books. The subsequent treatment of all operative cases is of tlie greatest importance. The pharyngeal vault should be carefully washed out at least once a day with some mild antiseptic solution, such as Dobell’s, with double the usual amount of carbolic acid, and the same precautions as to exposure, etc., should be observed as after any minor operation. In my practice a fine silver Eustachian catheter fitted to a half-ounce syringe is used to wash out the vault, a delicate jet being thrown upward behind the palate after introducing the cathe- ter through the mouth. Much of the danger of subsequent otitis is thus obviated, and healing is much more rapid and satisfactory than when no such measures are employed. Atrophic Rhinitis.—The final stage of “hypertrophic catarrh” is now considered a form of atrophy as well as the more typical “oziena.” The former condition, better named sclerotic rhinitis, is characterized by marked thinning of the turbinated tissue with wasting of all the structures of the nose, the glands and venous sinuses being gradually replaced by fibrous tissue. The surface of the mucous membrane is light colored and rugose, and papillomatous changes are common; but erosions, epithelial desquamation with consequent crust formation, and involvement of bone, rarely occur. But little can be done for this form of nasal disease. Alterative sprays, local faradization, massage, and similar measures, frequently give relief to the symptoms, but a cure cannot be expected. True ozsena probably depends on the presence of a rhino-bacillus, de- scribed by Marano2 and Loewenberg; it is a capsulated form and diminishes in abundance proportionately with the institution and efficacy of antiseptic treatment. Ozaena is characterized by rapid atrophy of all the intra-nasal tissues, including the turbinated bones; the cavities become greatly enlarged, and the epithelial layer becomes non-ciliated. Crust formation and extensive erosions consequently occur, and the patient being unable to clear the nose, decomposition and the consequent ozaena stench are developed. The most important additions to the therapeutics of this disease are the employment of europlien and allied compounds, massage, and the local use of the faradic current. Europlien 3 may be used either in the form of powder, or as an ointment of five-per-cent or ten-per-cent, strength. In the latter case its use is advantageously combined with massage. A straight, firm cotton holder is tightly wrapped with cotton at its extremity so as to form a pointed cylinder about one inch in length; the tuft is then well charged with the europhen ointment and intro- 1 Delie, Revue de Laryngologie, No. 18, 1891. 2 Arch, de Laryng., deRhin., etc., Avril, 1890. 3 Therapeutische Monat., September, 1891.