SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 610 to determine, but this can be done occasionally. Of course multiple tumors should not be submitted to operation. If the tumor be single, the localizing symptoms should be referable to one centre only, if the tumor be small; or to several centres which are immediately adjacent if it be large. If, however, the centres involved are multiple and far apart, the probabilities would be in favor of multiple tumor or else of a very large single tumor. In one of my cases1 the symptoms pointed to the involvement of several centres moderately far apart, but the post-mortem examination proved the growth to be one large tumor, which could not have been enucleated, although it literally dropped out of the brain during the removal of the cranial contents. The size of the tumor can be occasionally diagnosticated by the means given in the last paragraph. In the presence of a large growth we would naturally be deterred somewhat from operating; but in view of the fatality of brain tumor and of the fact that we cannot tell whether a large tumor cannot be removed, and also of the recorded suc- cessful removal of very large tumors, we should not hesitate to make the attempt. At the worst, if the tumor is found to be irremovable, the operation may be terminated; and often with great adxmntage to the patient by the relief of pressure, as in Horsley’s case of removal of the occipital bone already referred to. This I have had demonstrated also myself in two recent cases in which the patients’ headaches and de- lusional insanity were entirely relieved, and their comfort greatly promoted, by the removal of the bone, the tumor being left.2 Bramann has successfully removed the largest tumor on record, weighing nine ounces. Horsley has removed one of four ounces; and Weir and my- self each one but little under four ounces. Of these four patients three recovered. Prognosis of Brain Tumors.—Should no operation be done, brain tumor is practically a necessarily fatal disease. Though life may be prolonged for some time, the suffering is so great that death is a great relief. Almost the only exception to the fatality of brain tumors is in the case of those syphilitic growths which yield to the iodides. Hence we may say that unless the indications, such as multiplicity, position, size, etc., or the presence of other growths or of disease in other parts of the body, present positive contra-indications, an operation is justifiable. The prognosis varies greatly in reference to immediate recovery and to ultimate recovery. The fullest statistics are given in Chipault's book, in which the imme- diate results are given in 111 cases.3 As already stated, in 47 of these no tumor was found, and of these 47, 35 ended in death and only 12 in recovery. In the 67 cases in which removal was accomplished 47 patients recovered and 20 died; a mortality of less than 30 per cent. This certainly is an extremely favorable showing for so new an opera- tion. And there is no question that, as the profession is now alive to the possibility of the safe removal of cerebral tumors, many of them will come to the surgeon at a much earlier period than formerly, when 1 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, Jan., 1894. 2 Annals of Surgery, Oct., 1892, p. 378. 3 Dr. Mary Putnam Jacobi has given a table of 85 cases with fuller details in an excellent paper in the supplementary volume (ix.) of Buck's Reference Handbook of the Medical Sci- ences, p. 121.