GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 485 dilations that if the whole onward motion of a bullet weighing half an ounce and moving at 2000 feet a second were instantly arrested, and converted into heat, it would only raise the temperature to 351° F., which is 2S4° below the melting-point of lead. It is evident, therefore, that the deforming and comminution of the old projectile on striking a bone were purely mechanical. The new bul- lets are neither cut nor rasped to pieces. Being swedged into a slen- der but pretty strong thimble of German silver, the hard casing pre- vents both the spreading of the end on striking a bone, and the cutting and rasping of the metal as it goes through, so that in gunshot wounds of joints we now have in many instances a comparatively smooth per- foration, with only a few radiating cracks around it. This is in strik- ing contrast with what we found in the wars of past times, where we had to operate on joints literally reduced to a handful of bony gravel, interspersed with chips of lead. The simpler modern wounds admit in many cases of complete disin- fection, and consequently of successful treatment without amputation or resection. Field surgery has not yet fully tested the effects of the new guns, but we are safe in drawing the following practical conclusions:— 1. When a joint is wounded, whether by a bullet, a piece of shell, a splinter, a knife, or a bayonet—in short, by anything not known to be perfectly aseptic—no conclusion should be drawn from mere outside in- spection. The soldier should be anaesthetized, and the surface scrubbed with a solution of bichloride of mercury of the strength of one part to 2000 of water, or if, in the exigencies of battle, the bichloride is not at hand, then with tincture of iodine, alcohol, or any other antiseptic. 2. Still proceeding antiseptically, the surgeon should examine the wound. Synovial effusion, or the depth and direction of the wound as shown b}r a probe, often settles the question at once whether the capsule of the joint is perforated. If he is not clear as to this point, the surgeon should slit up the track of the ball to any extent necessary to allow a complete search for an opening in the capsule. If none is found, then the treatment is simply antiseptic. 3. If the bullet has merely grazed the capsule, making a slight rent, free from any evidence of dirt, bits of clothing, etc., and has not fractured the bone, and if also the wound is examined immediately after the in- jury, then the interior of the capsule will probably not be infected. The track of the bullet can be scraped or shaved with the scalpel, thor- oughly disinfected, and closed up antiseptically, with a prospect of success. 4. If the bullet has gone deeper, passing through the joint, or even gouging its bony edges, the wound must be considered as infected. In the Russo-Turkish war, Reyher advocated dissecting around the orifices of entrance and exit, and sealing up the wounds. He had a certain moderate amount of success, as things went in that pre-anti- septic time, but his method will not answer in future battles. In the cases under consideration it must be remembered that the sol- dier’s clothing is very foul with sweat, dust, and mud. His skin is in the same condition. There is nothing clean from head to foot about a soldier in battle. The track of the bullet which has traversed his clothing, or even the skin alone, is infected from end to end. It is