92 DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. forms, and they seem to me rather to be two different stages of the same disease than two really distinct affections. If we disregard those cases of experimental septicaemia in animals, in which death ensues simply from the enormous quantity of bacteria—which is en- tirely unlike the condition prevailing in man, where we usually find only comparatively few micro-organisms—we have to seek the cause of death always in the toxic effects of the products of the bacteria, with the only difference that in one case the bacteria are still present, while in the other they have perished in their own products. The difference as to the infectiousness of the two different kinds of blood may he explained, I think, in the following way. In the first case, where liv- ing bacteria are present, the injected blood effects its residts by the toxines produced in the original concentration, so to speak, by the meanwhile largely multiplied bacteria; while in the second case, where living bacteria are no longer present, we have only as much of the poison as is contained in the minute quantity of blood injected. This will he diluted in the whole quantity of blood possessed by the second animal, and will, of course, not multiply. This explains why we succeed in producing local septic conditions onl}T, like abscesses, etc., and never a generalization of sepsis, by injecting chemical poisons, as for instance quicksilver, turpentine, sterilized pus, or putrid matter in which the bacteria have been destroyed. Besides, there are surely between the septic poisoning by toxines and the bacterial septicaemia, quite a number of connecting, combined forms; for instance, we sometimes find in a case of septic poisoning schizomy- cetes of different kinds in the blood. The conditions and actions prevalent in putrefaction are of the high- est interest in connection with the etiology of septicaemia. The putre- faction of albumin in the presence of bacteria produces certain chemical substances, especially peptones and allied combinations, then nitroge- nous bases (leucin, tliyrosin, amines), organic fatty acids, aromatic products, coloring matter, and especially poisonous toxalbumins and certain alkaloids, comprised under the name of cadaveric alkaloids or ptomaines. The latter possess highly toxic qualities, as has been known for a long time. Panum isolated in 1863 the “putrid poison” from de- caying matter; von Bergmann and Sclmeideberg a crystalline body, thesepsine; Billroth the zymoid of putrefaction. Selmi first charac- terized the nature of these bodies, and called them cadaveric alkaloids or ptomaines; then von Nencki first succeeded in producing in chemically pure form one cadaveric alkaloid, collidine, and indicated its formula. After that Etard, Gautier, Zuelzer, Schmiedeberg, Harnack, Angerer, Maas, and especially Brieger, investigated closely the ptomaines and toxines, several of which Brieger educed in a chemically pure form out of bacterial cultures, as for instance peptotoxines, neurin, neuridin, cholin, and others. The cultures of bacilli of cholera, typhoid fever, and tetanus, furnished him also toxines in the highest degree poisonous, their toxic character being clearly shown by the inoculation of animals. Some of the ptomaines or toxines produce an effect like morphine, curare, or atropine. The peptotoxine (Brieger) kills animals experimented upon with symptoms of paralysis, while the highly poisonous neurin excites, like muscarine, salivation, contraction of the pupils, irritation of the respiratory and vascular systems, and clonic convulsions. This explains