249 FIBROMA. although on the other hand the perineural spaces are connected with the canals of the central nervous system, and consequently the nervous lymphatic circulation is entirely shut off peripherally from the general lymphatic system. Even the single terminal nerve fibres have separate perineural spaces which are of considerable width. Goldmann finds that in cases of fibroma of the nerve sheaths—fibromatosis, or congen- ital elephantiasis of the nerves, as it is sometimes called—the growth of fibrous tissue takes place from the endoneurium, and furthermore that it is not a mere overgrowth of the ordinary fibrillar connective tissue, hut that it consists of well-developed new connective tissue, and also of trabeculae formed by myxomatous cells with branching processes which either interlace or terminate in some of the connective-tissue fibres. The extraordinary richness of this tissue in cells and nuclei shows that this is not a condition of mucoid degeneration, but rather a true embryonic state of the connective tissue, which is almost exactly paralleled in structure by the foetal dura mater. Hence the conclusion is legitimate that the disease is rather a congenital deformity, a persist- ent foetal condition of the endoneurium, than a true neoplasm. Owing to the encapsulation of this new growth by the perineurium it never spreads to surrounding parts. These tumors may be single, but generally are multiple, and usually attack the majority of the branches of a certain nerve. Sometimes the entire nerve stem and its branches are proportionally enlarged and thickened, and this condition may involve all of the cerebro-spinal peripheral nervous system. In some cases the change is greater at certain points, forming true tumors, hut in others all the peripheral branches of a nerve trunk will be so enlarged as to form a mass of ver- miform swellings under the skin, like a cirsoid aneurism, the so-called “plexiform,” or “Ranken-neuroma.” Pomorski has reported an extra- ordinary case of cirsoid nerve fibroma which originated from the inter- costal nerves, and filled two-thirds of the pleural .cavity of the corre- sponding side of the chest, the tumor having caused no symptoms, and only being discovered after the patient's death. The skin itself over the superficial nerve-tumors may be unaltered, or may be apparently uniformly hypertrophied, even although the microscope shows that this uniform thickening really depends upon a very large number of minute fibromata developed from the terminal filaments of the sensory nerves. In a case of this kind Goldmann found that all the fibromata originated from the nerve-filament sheaths, and says that he believes that this is always the case, though former observers supposed that they sometimes came from the blood-vessels and glands of the skin, overlooking the fact that even in these cases the true origin of the growths was from the minute nerve-filaments which supplied these organs. The nerve fibres have been reported by some observers to have been atrophied, but Goldmann thinks that this is exceptional, and that it perhaps never occurs unless some malignant change has taken place. Clinically, these tumors are as a rule so innocent that they are not recognized unless they attain a considerable size, giving rise neither to pain nor to paralysis of either sensation or motion. The disease is most common in the head and neck, next in the trunk, and rarest in the extremities, though it does occur in the latter, more frequently in the upper than in the lower extremity, and more often affecting the