WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 56 Fig. 1568. covers, fitted with rubber washers, ai’e screwed on. They are then placed in the larger jar, entirely immersed in the alcohol, and are boiled for an hour. On cooling they are taken from the larger vessel, and their caps are tightened and only removed when the gut is to be used. Dry sterilization of catgut has been variously recommended. Rever- din, who was the first to adopt this method, heated the gut for five hours to 150° C. Although it had lost some of its firmness by this process, it was still of good quality. From culture experiments he con- cludes that sterilization for four hours at 140° C. is sufficient. Benckiser, on the other hand, asserts that absolute disinfection of the gut is obtained by a heat of 130-140° C. in from one and one-lialf to twro hours. The material becomes somewhat brittle, but, if it is placed in fluid before being used, it again assumes its normal consistency. One of the latest advocates of dry sterilization of gut is Braatz. After a long series of experiments he recommends heating to 150° C. for forty-five minutes, for which purpose he has constructed a self-regu- lating apparatus, in which the gut is placed in a separate metal box. The box will close hermetically, excluding, as the inventor asserts, “dust and other impuri- ties.” After sterilization the box is opened, what is needed of the gut is taken from it, it is again closed, and can be thus kept for further opera- tions, but how long the author does not state. One of the most impor- tant points in steriliza- tion by heat is that it should, if possible, take place immediately before the articles thus prepared are used. When once exposed, however, they ought to be sterilized again, and it cannot be therefore that Braatz’s box is a distinct advance toward ideal The gut it contains may remain sterile for a long time, and, as its interior has been once thoroughly heated and sterilized, we need not very much fear infection from atmospheric germs. If it does not occur, there is, nevertheless, a chance of infection by direct contact. It is rather against the principle that I contend, the introduction of an uncertain factor into the aseptic system. The method of sterilization by boiling in alcohol seems preferable, therefore, when sterilizing by heat. On the other hand, I am convinced that the method of steriliz- ation in watery sublimate solutions also furnishes a reliable material, and the simplicity of the method certainly is a strong factor in its favor. Silk is sterilized by boiling water or by steam. Neither method in- jures the material, even -when frequently applied. It is safest to sterilize the silk before each operation, as preservation in 1-1000 subli- mate solution soon makes the finer qualities unfit for use, and even Braatz’s Box for Sterilizing Catgut. claimed asepsis