10 INFLAMMATION. tion; or can it also be produced in animals which have no blood-vessels? What is the part played by the nervous system? In regard to the production of inflammation, is it necessary that an animal should pos- sess a series of differentiated organs, or is it sufficient that it should he composed of an accumulation of non-differentinted corpuscles? Can any- thing analogous to inflammation be found in the vegetable kingdom? Do unicellular organisms present inflammatory phenomena? These are the questions that Metclmikoff has endeavored to answer in the lectures which detail the methods that he has pursued in arriving at his conclusions. Steven1 pursues the argument about as follows: Starting with the general principle that the most marked characteristics, both of plant and animal organisms, are those adapting them either for aggression or defence, and that active aggression is easily transformed into infec- tion, and that defence from this point of view is equivalent to the salu- tary reaction of the organism against infection, all the phenomena observed by Metchnikoff or others in the invertebrates and lower verte- brates, which have any bearings upon the explanation of the inflam- matory process, are described. We are told that the amoebae and the infusoria react to traumatism or infection, and that amoebae are liable to epidemics of infectious disease communicated by other minute or- ganisms attacking them. We are shown the effects produced upon bacteria when taken into the bodies of amoebae. They absorb vesuvine there, although it has no effect upon them outside, and these results are said to be produced by the digestive action of the amoebae called forth for their self-defence. In the case of paramoecium, organisms capable of thriving vigorously are digested and rejected in the proto- plasm of the organism itself. Going on to the polycellular organisms, the phenomena observed that affect large protoplasmic masses, to which the term “plasmode” is applied, are first of all described in de- tail. It is shown that the currents observed in this undifferentiated living mass may flow toward, or be directed away from, external agents, according as they are beneficial to or destructive of the proto- plasm. The effect of traumatic, physical, and chemical irritation are considered in detail, and the significance of the property of chemio- taxis, positive if protoplasm be attracted, negative if it be repelled by the external agent, is indicated, especially as regards the important bearing it has in explaining the behavior of corpuscles in the higher animals during the inflammatory process. It has been shown that the chemiotaxy of these inferior beings obeys Weber's law for the sensitive perceptions of mankind, and it also appears that they can become acclimatized to their surroundings. The production of cicatrices in plants, as the result of traumatism, and the bearing of this upon Virchow’s theory of inflammation as a nutritive and formative hyperplasia of the inflamed tissues, are dis- cussed. Metchnikoff does not consider that this phenomenon lends any great support to Virchow’s opinion, for the reason that no account is taken of the phenomena, even more characteristic of inflammation, which are exhibited by organisms intermediate between plants and higher animals. Plants are protected from the attacks of bacteria by the thick resisting cell membranes, but, on the other hand, they are 1 Loc. cit.