49 WOUND-TREATMENT. laboratories. Dry sterilization of instruments was at first tried, from a desire to prevent rusting. The disinfecting power of dry heat is far below that of moist heat, but this deficiency, it was believed, could be fully made up by a higher temperature. A number of apparatuses, in which instruments could be heated to 150-180° C., were now con- structed. But many drawbacks to this mode of sterilization became apparent, as it was more frequently employed. Just what it was sought to avoid occurred; when heated to a high degree, instruments became rusty during cooling. The temper of the metal also became seriously affected. Steel lost its hardness and, as a result of this, cutting instruments became dull. But the main objection to the method is the time which it consumes. It is not an easy matter to raise a metal sterilizing oven to an even temperature of 150-180° C., and after rapid heating widely varying temperatures may be registered at different parts of the apparatus. All these disadvantages connected with dry sterilization were influ- ential in stimulating investigation in the direction of the application of moist heat for sterilization of instruments. Redard found that steam under pressure at 110° C. absolutely sterilized instruments in from ten to fifteen minutes, but that sterilization by boiling liquids could only be accomplished at a temperature of 120° C. He made many attempts at compounding a liquid “which should boil at 120° C., should be cheap, not poisonous, and not inflammable, should not emit any odor during ebullition, and, above all, should not harm the instruments.” He ex- perimented with glycerin, olive oil, and castor oil, but found these unsuitable for his purpose. He ultimately decided upon a mixture of forty parts of calcic chloride and sixty parts of water, which boils at 110° C. But Redard did not turn these results to any further practical use, believing in the superior efficacy of steam, on which principle he constructed a somewhat complicated apparatus. Many other appara- tuses for sterilization by steam have also been constructed, but, as the method has now been generally abandoned, I will not mention them. It appears that Davidsohn, a pupil of Robert Koch, first emphasized the advantages of sterilization b}r boiling, but to Schimmelbusch be- longs the credit of having definitely introduced the method into surgi- cal practice, after a series of experiments in von Bergmann’s Clinic, which demonstrated its simplicity and at the same time its efficiency. Instead of pure water Schimmelbusch recommends a 1-per-cent, solution of plain washing-soda. This has a double purpose. It intensifies the sterilizing power of boiling water by removing grease and dirt from the surface of instruments, and it absolutely prevents rusting. In- struments of proper construction, that is, with smooth surfaces, when thoroughly clean, can be sterilized by boiling for only five minutes in such a solution.1 It is quite immaterial whether instruments are boiled in special apparatuses or simple enamelled dishes or pots. In private practice the simpler a surgeon’s outfit the better, as long as the instruments are sterilized immediately before operation. It does not seem a wise procedure to sterilize instruments at home, to convey them to the patient’s house, and to assume that everything has been 1 Care should be taken to secure the necessary concentration of the soda-solution (one per cent.), as otherwise the instruments will suffer ; and it is well to remember that commer- cial soda is frequently adulterated to a large extent with ordinary salt and other ingredients. VOL. VII.—4