DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 834 lias been discussed by Paget, Hutchinson, and others. Paget says that cancerous disease has never been observed to occur in adenomata of the breast, but Hutchinson,1 on the other hand, declares that adenoma of the breast, after existing for many years, may serve as a centre for scirrhous growth. This writer therefore questions whether it would not be better to remove all adenomata of the breast, and whether, in a particular case, if the adenoma had been removed any scirrhus would have developed. Patteson2 describes two cases of adenoma of the breast in children, and, speaking of this variety of tumor and its formation, remarks that while the epithelial proliferation remains intra-cystic, we have the comparatively benign proliferating cystic adenoma; but that if the epithelial development becomes extra-cystic, and crossing the basement membrane extends into the inter-acinous stroma, then we have the infiltrating adenoma, or early stage of adeno- carcinoma, with its rapid local malignancy, etc. Cystic tumors of the breast may be malignant or benign. The pres- ence of cysts has little bearing, therefore, on the question of diagnosis or prognosis. Butlin 3 reports sixty-six cases of cystic and sixty-six of connective-tissue tumors, nine of carcinoma, and one of adenoma. The solid constituents of these tumors, not their number or their size, in- fluence their history. Gaillard Thomas describes a method of removing benign tumors without mutilation. He advises their removal because patients with any form of mammary tumor are apt to be apprehensive, nervous, and gloomy. This method is inappropriate for malignant tumors, but has been applied to fibromata, lipomata, cysts, and adenomata, varying in size from that of a hen’s egg to that of a duck’s egg, or larger. The operation is thus performed: The patient standing erect, and the mamma being completely exposed, a semicircular line is drawn with pen and ink exactly in the fold which is created by .the fall of the organ upon the thorax. As soon as it has dried the patient is anaesthetized, and with the bistoury the skin and areolar tissue are cut through, the knife exactly following the ink line until the thoracic muscles are reached. The mamma is now turned up on the clavicle, and the growth is dissected out from below. Sarcomata of the Breast. The prognosis after removal of the breast for sarcoma depends upon the class to which the tumor belongs. In some instances the malig- nancy exceeds that of carcinoma, especially in the melanotic variety. The prognosis is influenced by the invasion of the axillary glands. In the more rapidly growing and malignant forms of sarcoma the lymphatic glands of the axilla have been found early and extensively infected, and in such cases the recurrences have been rapid. At other times there have been remote metastases without perceptible enlarge- ment of the neighboring lymph-glands. The presence of swollen and tender glands in the axilla in connec- tion with sarcomata of the breast does not necessarily prove that they 1 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1888, vol. xxxix. 2 Jour, of Anat. and Physiol., vol. xxvi., p. 509. 3 Lancet, July 12, 1884.