CHYLE CYSTS—ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. 375 eight ounces of the same fluid were removed. The patient declining radical treatment, a third aspiration was attempted, but only two ounces could be with- drawn owing to the canula becoming blocked. From the microscopic examination made by Prof, Ileneage Gibbes, there can be no doubt that the fluid was chyle. For the anatomical reasons which render such a condition possible upon the right side of the neck, I must refer the reader to Quain’s Anatomy, 9th edition, p. 529, and to my original paper.1 Treatment.—This can only he palliative, by tapping, unless the sur- geon and patient are willing to run the risk of a lymph-fistula if the opening into the duct cannot be occluded. If a radical operation were to be attempted, antiseptic packing should be tried, because dissecting out the sac with ligation of the supplying lymph-vessels would proba- bly be a physical impossibility, owing to the tenuity of the walls and the anatomical relations of the parts. Iodine injections would be hazardous, owing to the necessarily free communication with the large lymph-trunk which empties in this region so promptly into the large veins. Chylous Cyst of the Mesentery.—An instance of this condition, mistaken for an ovarian or parovarian cyst, reported by Dr. A. Rasch, presents certain points of interest:— A Jewess, aged 21, had a rounded elastic tumor occupying mainly the left side of the abdomen, its upper limit reaching two inches above the umbilicus. When the abdomen was opened the tumor was found of a pale pink color, and “ very glossy,” unlike any ordinary abdominal cyst. “A perfectly milk-like fluid squirted out with great force” when the cyst was tapped,2 the walls being seen upon further examination to be merely the two layers of the mesentery separated from one an- other by the collection of fluid. The small intestine was normally related to the mesentery, which in turn originated from the usual point. The interior of the cyst was intensely congested, of a dark-red color, and oozed freely. The edges of the incised mesentery (cyst) were stitched to the skin wound, and recovery ensued.3 Treatment.—This is well illustrated by the case quoted; no attempt should ever be made to dissect out the cyst itself. Elephantiasis Arabum. The common cause of this disease, chyluria and chylocele, or chyl- ous hydrocele, with numerous other lymphatic affections, is so clear, 1 Transactions of Am. Surg. Association, vol. x., p. 201. 2 F. Bramann reports from von Bergmann’s clinic an interesting case where no discharge of chyle occurred after evacuation of the cyst. He thinks that stenosis of the thoracic duct is present in most cases, although this sometimes produces only dilatation of the lymph-trunks; but here Bramann thinks that the thoracic duct was double, or pursued an anomalous course. No evidence existed at the time of operation of any pressure on the main duct, since the lympha- tics of the intestines were not dilated. The absence of epithelial or endothelial lining excludes a secretion from the cyst-wall itself, and Grawitz’s theory as to small peritoneal cysts will not avail. Rokitansky’s view as to the genesis from a lymph-gland is untenable. Bramann con- cludes that the cyst may have originated from a dilatation of the receptaculum chyli, or from a subperitoneal cavernous lymphoma or angeioma, such as has been described bv Virchow (Annals of Surgery, vol. vii., p. 395, from Arch. f. kliu. Cliir., Bd. xxxv., lift. i). 3 Transactions Obst. Society, London, vol. xxxi., p. 311; J. Bland Sutton, Surgical Dis- eases of the Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes, etc., 1891, p. 195. According to Sutton, cysts sim- ilar to the above have been reported by Berginann, Arch. f. klin. Chir. (Langenbeck), 1887, S. 201; Mendes de Leon, Am. Journ. of Obstet., vol. xxiv., p. 168; and Fetherston, Aus- tralian Med. Journal, 1890, p. 475.