428 INJURIES OF BONES. two and one-lialf years had a fracture of the femur at two points; it did not unite for six months, when a fragment was removed from the lower portion; the muscles shrank, and the knee became stiff. At thir- teen years and seven months, a new fracture occurred at the junction of the middle and lower thirds; plaster-of-Paris was applied for three months, and then the fractured ends were rubbed upon one another; the plaster was reapplied, and she got up upon crutches; union was finally obtained with 1^ inch shortening. Rehn 1 reports a case of chipping off of the external condyle in a man aged 29, who was crushed under a falling wall; sixteen years afterward he had a slight injury of the foot, followed by suppuration of the knee- joint, within which the fragment was found. Dr. Mynter, of Buffalo, N. Y., has shown me two specimens of the same kind, the separated fragments having become smoothed and nodulated, but whether by abrasion or by deposit of new material could not be certainly deter- mined. Another case has been reported by Wickes.2 In a case reported by Wills,3 a boy aged 12 sustained, by a railroad accident, a fracture of both femora, a compound fracture of the nasal bones with concussion of the brain, and severe general contusions; yet he made a good recovery. Barclay4 saw a man aged 22, crushed by a fall of earth, who had a fracture of the femur, and laceration of the scrotum with protrusion of the testis, followed by tetanus, but who recovered, and was discharged cured on the seventy-fourth day. Bull5 gives an account of a man aged 56, who had a comminuted fracture of the lower end of the femur. “A large slice of bone had been broken off the lower end of the femur from the anterior surface, the condyles being split laterally and longitudinally; the fracture had become united by callus.” It is further stated, however, that “sup- puration in the knee-joint ensued on the hemorrhage into the joint due to the injury,” and amputation became necessary. In another case, reported by Annandale,6 a man aged 50 had a sim- ple fracture about two inches above the condyles; on the third day, the limb having become gangrenous, amputation was performed, and it was found that the popliteal artery and vein had been ruptured, and both crucial ligaments torn through. A somewhat similar case has been recorded by Mudd,7 and another by Peraire,5 in which, however, the amputation was postponed until the forty-eighth day. Kennedy9 records the case of a boy aged 13, who had his left leg caught in the wheel of a wagon, and who sustained a fracture of the femur close to the knee-joint. The lower fragment was displaced forward, its fractured surface resting upon the anterior surface of the upper fragment. Reduction was effected, but could not be maintained; the lower end of the upper fragment projected in the popliteal space, and became necrosed. Four weeks after the accident, the parts were ex- posed by an incision along the outer border of the biceps tendon; the necrosed part of the bone was removed, and the other fractured surface 1 Verhandl. der Deutschen Gesellscliaft fur Chirurgie, 1889. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, Dec. 22, 1883 3 British Med. Journal, June 21, 1884. 4 Ibid. 5 Lancet, Dec. 24, 1887. 6 Ibid., July 2, 1887. 1 Journal of the Am. Med. Association, March 31, 1888. 8 Revue de Chirurgie, Fevrier, 1889. Loc. cit.