789 LYMPHOID HYPERTROPHY OF THE VAULT OF THE PHARYNX. reported most favorably of the hypodermic use of pilocarpine in these cases. Scarification, although giving temporary relief, will not replace the measures needed to overcome the prevailing venous engorgement and obstruction. Acute angeio-neurotic oedema usually subsides in a short time with- out the use of remedies, although the nervines will be theoretically in dicated. When grave symptoms are present the use of the knife is im- perative. In the chronic form, arsenic and the bromides are useful. I have obtained excellent results from the use of ichthyol, as recom- mended by Unna in urticaria and by Hardaway in this form of oedema. Morrow advises the use of pilocarpine. The treatment of solid septic oedema will be the treatment of in- fluenza. I have found in the benzoate of sodium in large doses (twenty grains every tAvo hours for the adult), a most useful drug in promoting a reduction of the cellular infiltration. The spray, or local applications with a cotton pledget, of carbolized iodine in strong solu- tion will reduce the swelling and give relief to the distressing dry- ness. When, hoAvever, the oedema remains in spite of these measures, and when it affects the ventricular bands in a marked degree, trache- otomy should be employed. The tendency of the oedema to sudden increase from atmospheric or unknown causes, and the great frequency with which it becomes associated with spasm of the glottis, render this condition exceedingly grave. Many cases of the laryngeal oedema of influenza might have been saved by opening the trachea as soon as the spasmodic element was added to the obstructive, or when the ventric- ular bands were so swollen as to close the respiratory portion of the glottis. This is especially the case with children. The condition is entirely different from that of spasmodic or membranous croup. In both of these diseases the great obstruction is from spasm of the glottis, which shows a remission at certain periods. In membranous croup tem- porary relief will come from expulsion of a portion of the membrane, but in solid oedema the ventricular bands and the vocal cords are solidly infiltrated and the obstruction continues without change. The persist- ence of this obstruction in the larynx eventually leads to a mechanical congestion of the lungs with resulting heart failure, through acute dilatation of the right ventricle. The longer the operation is postponed, the less chance will the patient have for recovery. I belie\Te from experience tha-t when this condition has been verified by a laryngoscopic examination, and the signs of laryngeal obstruction have been present in a marked degree for two hours, or when the spasmodic element has become evident, the trachea should be promptly opened. The tracheal tube must be worn until the oedema has entirely subsided, which may be for weeks or even longer. In a case known to myself the tube Avas worn by an adult for nine months before it could be removed. Lymphoid Hypertrophy of the Vault of the Pharynx. Meyer, of Copenhagen, in 1868, first dreAv attention to the existence of a mass of so-called adenoid tissue in the pharyngeal vault as a cause of disease. Since then it has beep widely studied, and a series of phe- nomena producing more or less derangement of the general health, and