915 HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. scope is tunneled in such a manner as to permit, in favorable cases, of catheterization of the ureters. Brenner has successfully catheterized both ureters in the female, but has failed in the male. It is probable that as we become more familiar with the use of the cystoscope, and as the instrument itself becomes improved, cystoscopy will be reduced to as exact a science as is ophthalmoscopy. There are many cases on record at the present time that prove the extreme value of the cystoscope. Foreign bodies, encysted calculi, tuberculous infiltration and ulceration, and benign and malignant neoplasms have been demonstrated by this instrument as beautifully as could be imagined. In some varieties of vesical tumor the appearance presented by cystoscopic examination is so definite and characteristic as to he absolutely startling. In villous papillomata, for example, the delicate branchlets of the growth may he easily seen, floating about in the urine, and the superficial vessels of such growths, down to their minutest ramifications, may be observed with surprising distinctness. The cystoscopic appearance of chronic cystitis is of course dependent to a great extent upon the degree of the inflammatory process. In the slighter cases the mucous membrane has been described as of a white and rather gelatinous appearance. There is always in long-standing cases an increased thickness of the bladder, as demonstrated by the relatively greater prominence of its rugae as compared with their normal condition. The network of ves- sels to be seen in the normal or acutely inflamed bladder is obscured by inflammatory exudate, and by the accumulation of small aggregations and streaming filaments of muco-pus, attached to the surface of the mucous membrane. In some instances more or less deposit of phos- phatic salts is to be observed, this condition being verified by the sensa- tion and sound imparted by touching the collection with the beak of the cystoscope. The megaloscope of Boisseaux de Rocber is claimed to have some advantages over the cystoscope. It brings into view a larger surface of the bladder at one time, but the objects seen are less distinct, and the instrument is more difficult to manipulate. The future possibilities of cystoscopy are unquestionably great. Hypertrophy of the Prostate. In its normal state the prostate neither assists nor retards the flow of urine. Surrounding the first portion of the urethra, its two halves meeting both in front and behind this canal, its function is simply sexual. In man and other animals who have been castrated the prostate shrinks away, leaving a small, hard, fibrous mass which is but a trace of the original organ. Neither the atrophy following castration nor the normal increase of size and development that occurs during the breeding season in some animals influences the function of urination.1 When the normal size and shape have been changed, however, micturition may he seriously interfered with, but not necessarily. Quite a number of cases of enlargement of the prostate have been reported in the last few years occurring in subjects under 55 years of age. Mudd reports one at 27 years of age; Packard one at 43; Bell- 1 [Castration, as a remedial measure, has been practised by J. Wm. White and others.]