ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 550 Anterior Curves of the Tibula and Fibula.—These seldom yield to apparatus, but with osteotomy excellent results may be obtained.1 Even very angular projections maybe straightened without removing a wedge. Drainage is seldom required. When it becomes necessary to remove a wedge, the piece may be chipped away or cut out with a chisel, but the operation should be avoided when possible, since the resulting compound fracture is a much more serious condition than the simple fracture which follows linear section. The use of an Esmarch bandage or tourniquet is not advisable, since the outflow of blood serves an excellent purpose in preventing the ingress of air. The dressings should be thoroughly aseptic, and they need not be removed as long as they remain sweet and clean. The best subsequent fixation splint is plaster-of-Paris, applied while the deformity is slightly over- corrected. In the process of fixation by a gypsum splint, it is desirable to enclose the fractured region with the first turns of the bandage, since the proper position of the limb can then be much better maintained by an assistant with a firm grasp upon the limb below and above the point of injury. A few moments will suffice to render these preliminary turns sufficiently rigid to prevent any displacement, after which the less essential portions above and below may be adjusted. Great care should be taken, while the cast is soft, not to make indentations by the fingers or otherwise, as each depression produces an elevation or mound upon the inner surface, which, when hardened, may give rise to great suffering or even to sloughing. Care should be taken to saw open and tighten the cast as shrinkage of the tissue occurs. Operation with the Saw.—The osteotome is more frequently employed than the saw for section of a bone. While the use of the osteotome requires a larger wound of the soft tissues, and is not actually a sub- cutaneous operation, yet it is in many respects cleaner and more satis- factory, and is less liable to be followed by suppuration. Particles of sawdust, if they do not become incorporated and vitalized, may set up suppuration, acting as foreign bodies. The use of the saw is a slower and a more difficult operation, and if carelessly used the instrument will produce a certain amount of tearing of the soft tissues. The choice between these two modes of treatment will rest largely upon the experience of the operator. Genu AWlgum. Knock-knee, in common with the other deformities of rickets, is less frequently found in the United States than in Europe. It is essentially a disease of the poor of great cities. When knock-knee is combined with bow-leg and bowed femur, two or three sections may become necessary. Occasionally, especially in colored children, a peculiar cork- screw leg is produced by severe rickets. Frequent and forcible straight- ening by hand is the most effective measure. The supracondyloid oste- otomy of Mace wen, as described in Mr. Fisher’s article in Yob III., is so satisfactory in genu valgum that it has practically superseded all other procedures. 1 International Clinics, Jan., 1892, p. 111.