MYOMA. 255 as strict as the German pathologists in their limitations of the term, many tumors which are called myxomata being really sarcomata with myxomatous portions. In the lower animals Sutton knows of only one authentic case, which occurred in the bladder. Gould has reported a case of perinephric myxoma, without a trace of fatty tissue. Richot has described a case in the testicle, but it con- tained some cartilaginous spots and some collections of epithelial cells, so that one is inclined to call it sarcoma, and yet the patient remained well, for recurrence had not taken place two years after removal. A very curious case is that of a tumor which occurred in the mamma of a woman forty-six years of age, described by Jungst. It had first been noticed ten years before removal, being at that time the size of a hazel- nut, and had grown slowly for the first eight years, then more rapidly, until it had attained the size of a man’s fist. It caused no symptoms until it was of large size, when it presented the appearance of a hard nodular tumor without adhesions to the surrounding parts. Microscop- ically it proved to be a myxoma growing in an intracanalicular man- ner, with hyaline degeneration of its tissues. Myxoma has been ob- served to grow in this way, and hyaline degeneration is not uncommon, but the combination has not been noted before, and the intracanalicular form is a rarity. Myoma. Myoma has been observed made up of both forms of muscular tissue, the striped and the smooth fibres. The striped-muscle tumors, or rliabdo-myomata, are very rare, and most frequently of teratoid origin. The attempt has even been made to show that all such tumors are of direct foetal origin, but not as yet with success. Striped muscle fibre is most frequently found in combination with other tissues, forming only part of the tumor, and we have already noted how frequently it is associated with lipoma. Gowers has even found a growth of this description lying upon the spinal cord, beneath the dura mater. It is more commonly seen in combination with sar- coma than in benign tumors. Besides these mixed tumors, there are four cases on record of pure or nearly pure rhabdo-myoma of the testicle—that of Rokitansky, published in 1840, and the more recent examples recorded by Neumann, Arnold, and Ribbert. In two of the cases the patients were only three or four years old, and in the others they were thirteen and eighteen years of age. The theory is advanced that these tumors originate from the gubernaculum testis of Hunter, and the occurrence of cartilage in some of them, together with the youth of the patients, indicates a congenital origin. In the other cases the growths were small, but in Arnold’s case the tumor was ten centi- metres long and twenty-seven in circumference at its largest part. Arnold found that the tumors contained glycogen, which is present only in striped muscle, especially in the embryonic stage. Mrcahand bad already noted this in a growth occurring in the pelvis. A few cases of unstriped muscle tumor (leio-myoma) of the epididymis have been recorded recently. The first case of this kind was that re- ported by Rindfleisch, in 1860, since which time there appear to have been none observed until those recorded by Hericourt and Condamini.