INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 860 Treatment.—Unquestionably very many cases of catarrhal appendi- citis recover under medical treatment, and without operative interfe- rence. The administration of laxatives and of rectal enemata, so as to obtain a free movement of the bowels, is often the only treatment required; but when the patient has suffered a number of attacks, and the disease is of the relapsing variety, the operation for removal of the appendix, intermediate or between the attacks, is a very successful procedure. It is a source of misfortune that there is still a belief among many physicians that the presence of a tumor is necessary for the diagnosis of appendicitis, or as an indication for immediate operation. The very contrary is true. A tumor is practically no part of fulminating appen- dicitis. With another class of physicians the presence of a tumor is looked upon as a favorable sign, an indication that the case will re- cover without an operation. While this belief is not so dangerous as the preceding one, it yet leads to disastrous results by allowing the formation of widely dissecting abscesses, and a resulting condition of saprsemia, not very rare in cases of delayed operation. It is certain, however, that in these cases of the suppurative form of appendicitis, immediate surgical interference does not become as imperative as in the fulminating variety, and it may be said that when once the tumor has been recognized, the patient’s pulse remaining below 90 and the temperature about normal, it is safe to wait, relieving the bowels by rectal enemata. until the end of the tenth or twelfth day, when the abscess which has formed may readily be opened and drained. On the other hand, an error is often made in delaying too long an operation where there is a localized abscess. Too great manipulation of the parts is at times indulged in by the attending or consulting physician, and the abscess may thus be ruptured, leading to a rapidly fatal peritonitis. When an operation is done for suppurative appendicitis, in a case in which there is present a well-defined abscess cavity, the object of the operator should be to drain that cavity without infecting the general peritoneum. It is far better to do this and resort to a second operation at a later period, should there be a return of symptoms, than to attempt too much in searching for the appendix, risking the opening of the peritoneal cavity. In all operations of this kind careful attention should be paid to the subject of complete, thorough drainage, by the use either of gauze or of a glass drainage tube, the technique being carried out with great completeness. In conditions of septic peritonitis due to perforation, associated with any variety of appendicitis, there are times when the free flushing of the peritoneal cavity with saline solutions becomes absolutely necessary. As to this form of appendicitis, very prompt operative interference is required on the part of the medical attendant, or the patient will pass beyond the skill of the surgeon within a few hours. Cases that result from perforation and the escape of the contents of the appendix, with or without the secretion from the csecum, but having the Bacillus coli communis as the infective micro-organism, develop septic perito- nitis rapidly, and prove fatal in a very large majority of instances. In cases that have been reached early, however, though there has been present a gangrenous condition of the appendix, yet its complete re-