950 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. brane; foreign bodies may be sought for and detected, and the presence of stone or neoplasms may likewise be determined. Enlargement of the middle or third lobe of the prostate may be discovered, and, lastly, the cystoscope may furnish material aid in the investigation of surgical renal disease. By observing the orifices of the ureters, the escape of blood or pus from one or both of them in cases of lisematuria or pyuria of renal origin may be noted, and it may thus be ascertained which kidney is affected, or whether both are the seat of disease, and so the question of operation may sometimes be settled. No attempt is made here to give a detailed description of the morbid conditions revealed by the cystoscope, their discussion not properly be- longing to this article. Immediate Suture of the Ruptured Urethra. To the methods of treatment in rupture of the urethra laid down by Duplay,1 should be added that of immediate approximation of the ends of the torn canal by means of sutures, to secure rapid union. There have been a number of contributions to the literature of this subject of late years, and it may now be claimed that in suitable cases the method is an improvement over the older one of permitting the tear of the urethra to be repaired by the process of granulation. Among those who have reported successes with this operation are Erasme,2 Cauchois,3 Thiriar,4 Woolcombe,3 Barling (four cases),0 and Gould (two cases).7 Erasme quotes experiments of Kaufmann, of Zurich, in suturing intentionally made, complete, transverse divisions of the urethra in dogs, by which it was demonstrated that primary union could be obtained. The operation of suturing the urethra is performed thus: The peri- neum having been opened, the incision carefully deepened, all clots turned out, and the ends of the divided urethra found, a catheter is passed into the bladder from the meatus, and, with this in place, several fine catgut sutures, not including the mucous membrane, are inserted. The number of these sutures should be, in cases of complete rupture, four—one for the roof, one for the floor, and one for either side of the canal. In cases where the entire circumference of the canal is not involved in the laceration, fewer stitches will be necessary. The sutures are next to be tied, and approximation of the tear accomplished. The perineal wound being then thoroughly cleansed, its fore part should be approximated with deep sutures of silk-worm gut or wire, the posterior or most dependent part being left open, as Barling recommends, for drainage in case of leakage of urine, or of subsequent suppuration, which may of course take place as the result of extravasation pre- vious to the operation. In Gould’s and Woolcombe’s cases no pro- vision for drainage of the perineal tissues was made, the wound being closed entirely. While the results in these cases were excellent, it would seem safer, especially in cases in which the tissues have suffered 1 Vol. VI., pp 328-329 supra. 2 Annales d. Mai. d. Org. Genito-Urin., Mars, 1888. 3 Ibid., 1888, p. 682. 4 Clinique Brux., 1888, t. ii., p. 801. 5 Lancet, 1888, vol. ii., p. 913. 6 Birmingham Med. Review, 1891, p. 321. 7 Med. Press and Circ., 1894, p. 633.