28 INFLAMMATION. evident that, in this disease at least, the serous exudation is always more abundant when the disease is most virulent, but in spite of the enormous quantity of this exudation, the bacteria appear to be in no way hurtfully affected by it, but, on the contrary, they flourish in it, and acquire an extraordinary virulence. Another very evident point brought out is that if the substances produced by the bacteria have already penetrated into the blood, the poison secreted by the same organism inoculated into other parts of the body of the animal does not attract the leucocytes, as is shown by the results obtained with the bacillus pyocyaneus. If a drop of a culture be injected into the eye of a rabbit, the leucocytes emigrate in great quantities to the point of injection, but if the poison produced by the bacillus pyocyaneus is pre- viously circulating in the blood, the leucocytes do not emigrate, and the eye remains intact. Finally, it seems necessary, before accepting the theory advanced by Massart and Bordet,1 to study the action upon inflammation of certain well-defined chemical substances injected at the same time under the skin and in the veins, which is a work that Ruffer promises to carry out very soon. Bacteria Causing Inflammation. Looking upon inflammation from the point of view here adopted— that it is a symptom of the effect of some irritant agent, and the ad- vance of the phagocytes against this agent—and considering, as we are obliged to do, that the most commonly occurring of these irritant agents are to be found among certain forms of the bacteria, it is im- possible to have a proper idea of the subject without a certain knowl- edge of what these bacteria are. Of course, a consideration of the whole subject of bacteriology would be out of place here, but the activ- ity of these micro-organisms has been shown to be so great and so widespread that a mention of a few of them is necessary. The number of those that have been shown to produce an inflammatory reaction, which inflammatory reaction not infrequently goes on to suppuration, is very large indeed, so that it is not possible to speak in detail of more than the most common; and the mention of those spoken of must also be limited to the organisms occurring in man, for the number of bac- teria which have been found to produce inflammatory changes in the lower animals is much greater than the number of those which have been found, either by inference or actual experiment, to produce the same changes in the human being; so that if the effort were made to consider all that may produce inflammation either in man or in the lower animals, an altogether too great prominence and space would of necessity be given to their description. Of those that produce inflammatory and suppurative changes in the human tissues, the most common is (1) the Staphylococcus Pyo- genes Aureus. Tins is an organism occurring very often in pus, in the air, and in earth, in the form of irregularly arranged micrococci of variable size, the medium diameter being 0.87/l It is non-motile. On gelatin plates, at the end of forty-eight hours, it appears as small points with a yellowish tinge and sharp edges at the non-liquefied gelatin. 1 Vide supra.