514 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. upon, 1 patient was able to walk all day without fatigue; 2 could walk for an hour or two; 5 walked better than before the operation; 2 were obliged to use crutches; 6 limped; while 1 walked worse than before, and 1 was not reported upon. These might be classed as 3 good results, 5 moderate results, and 8 bad results. It, therefore, seems safe to say with regard to resection of the femur as a curative measure in con- genital dislocation of the hip, that its results are unsatisfactory.1 Ho fa's Operation.—A possibility for the relief of this condition is held out by the operation of Hoffa, which bids fair to yield better re- sults than any other method of treatment. The operation aims to replace the head of the femur in a socket artificially made by scooping out a hollow in the bone. A free incision is made as if for excision of the hip by the posterior curved line; the cut is carried down until the posterior aspect of the joint is exposed; the capsule is extirpated as far as it offers any resistance; the soft parts and ligaments which prevent the femur from being pulled down are cut. and with a heavy Yolkmann spoon the acetabulum is made at the proper place by hollowing out a receptacle in the ilium. The head of the femur is placed in this hol- low, and the wound is closed. The operation is most suitably performed upon young children, under six. In older children the contraction of the parts about the hip is so great that it is difficult in many instances to reduce the dislocation. In some instances Hoffa performed tenotomy of the hamstring tendons and of the fascia about the ilium. He advises against the operation in children over ten years of age. Of 75 patients operated on by Hoffa all who recovered were “greatly improved by the operation.” If sup- puration occurs, or if the acetabulum is not made sufficiently broad and deep, anchylosis is apt to take place. The first dressing should be kept on for three or four weeks, but after five weeks the child is allowed to walk in apparatus which allows motion at the hip, and which, in unilateral cases, should be worn for several weeks or even months. Lorenz’s modification of Hoffa’s operation requires an anterior inci- sion, made below the anterior superior iliac spine. The capsule is very easily reached in this way, and the contraction is more effectively attacked from the front, because the chief obstacle to reduction seems, as demonstrated by Bradford,2 to lie in the ilio-femoral bands of the cap- sule. The attachment of the Y ligament should be thoroughly divided near the inter-trochanteric line of the femur. It is possible that by this operation older patients may be operated on and with better suc- cess than by the original method of Hoffa. Lorenz3 has further modified his operation by making a transverse incision directly outward from the longitudinal incision, in order to afford still easier access to the acetabulum. 1 Ivlinik der Gelenkkranklieiten, 1870. Lehrbucli d. spec. Chirurgie, 1889, Bd. iii. Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1887, S. 336. Quoted by Kroulein (Deutsche Chirurgie). Central- blatt f. Chirurgie, 1884, No. 14. Archivio di Ortopedia, Anno i., fasc. 5, 6. Archiv f. klin. Chirurgie, Bd. xxx., S. 666. Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1884, No. 45. Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, 1887, No. xiv., S. 398. Quoted by Teufel, Deutsche Zeitsch. f. Chi- rurgie, Bd. xxix., S. 343. Giornale della R. Accad. di Med. di Torino, fasc. 6, 7, 1885. Archivio di Ortopedia, t. ii., Nos. 3, 4, 5. Quoted by Hoffa, Revue d’Ortliopedie, Mars, 1891. p. 101. Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1887, S. 336. Quoted by Porto, Les Luxations Con- genitales de la Hanche, etc.. Paris, 1887. Quoted by Hoffa, loc. cit. Ogston, Annals of Surgery, vol. viii., p. 1. Brit. Med. Journal, 1885. 2 Trans. Am. Orthopaedic Association, vol. vii., p. 95. 3 Ibid., p. 112.