1 Injuries of the Spine and Spinal Cord, etc., p. 49. CONCUSSION OF THE SPINE AND REMOTE EFFECTS OF SPINAL INJURIES. G51 canal of the cord, but such an effect is only a relatively unimportant addition to the cerebral lesions. The slighter lesions found in the cord after injury of the spine are probably the effect of direct pressure by a temporarily displaced verte- bra (contusion), or of forcible elongation of the cord during a momen- tary diastasis of the corresponding portion of the spine. In Mr. Page's summary of liis analysis of cases of alleged concus- sion, 1 he says: “ We have thus been able to bring together a considerable number of cases of so-called concussion-injury of the spinal cord, and among them we have seen how few there are in which there has not been damage likewise to the spinal column. . . . We have endeavored upon anatomical grounds to show that the spinal cord shares but little of the risk of the brain to suffer lesion from blows directly inflicted upon its bony covering; and we have appealed to the unwritten experience of surgeons as to the rarity of lesions of the spinal cord in the absence of injury to the form, structure, and integrity of the spinal column. . . . And this fact is very prominent, that there is no evidence to show that the spinal cord can receive concussion-injury without the manifestation of undoubted symptoms, or that the cord itself can meet with structural traumatic lesion without the appearance of those symptoms immediately upon the injury.” As the result of such study and of such advance in our knowledge of the subject, it is not singular that the theory that the spinal cord is peculiarly liable to injury in railway accidents has ceased to be re- garded with favor. The “ railway-spine” of Mr. Erichsen had a bril- liant but brief career, and soon gave place to the “railway brain,” because the symptoms marking the condition were in the main cere- bral, not spinal. But as Mr. Tliorburn says, this change is but one step toward the truth; we still need more knowledge of the conditions grouped under that term. Study of the subject has tended steadily to bring the cases into the class of functional disturbances of the nervous system, neuroses or psychoses, and authors now use the terms “ trau matic neurasthenia,” “traumatic hysteria,” “traumatic neuroses,” and “traumatic neuropsychoses.” The paralysis, the anaesthesia, the limi- tation of the field of vision, the long and varied group of symptoms formerly thought to indicate chronic inflammatory changes in the spinal meninges or in the cord, are now seen to be identical in character and behavior with the similar symptoms observed in cases of undoubted hysteria, and Charcot has shown that similar conditions can be pro- duced by suggestion during hypnotic sleep. This latter fact has sug- gested an explanation of some of the symptoms on the theory of “ auto- suggestion.” The symptoms vary greatly in degree, character, and duration. Mr. Tliorburn groups them as those of acute and chronic hysteria. In the first he places those explosive “hysterical” manifestations with which all are familiar—screaming, crying, laughter—-which soon pass away and leave no trace; also a second form, a condition of temporary oblivion in which the patient is not unconscious in the usual sense of the term, walks and talks, but remembers nothing of what he has said or done. Mr. Tliorburn compares it to somnambulism. Such persons, too, often have extraordinary ideas as to what occurred at the time of the acci- dent. and give circumstantial accounts of purely imaginary occur-