179 ACCIDENTS OF ANAESTHESIA. of the nose and throat in all who are present, and sometimes produces nausea and serious disturbances of respiration. Complete anaesthesia is indicated by an insensitive cornea, stertorous but rhythmical breath- ing, or muscular relaxation. The presence of either should cause stop- page of inhalation.1 We should watch, (1st) the rhythm and depth of respiration, preferably the abdominal, (2d) the pulse, and (3d) the pupil. Anaesthesia should be complete before the operation is begun, so as to lessen the liability to syncope from reflex inhibition of the heart. Additional evidence has been presented that anaesthesia can some- times be produced in children during sleep. " Nitrous Oxide.3—1. Have the mouth or face piece fit accurately, and hold the nose, so as to exclude all extraneous air. 2. The patient should take a few deep inspirations before the gas is turned on. 3. To avoid struggling and the use of large quantities of gas, and to promote profound narcosis, turn the gas on toward the end of a long expiration. 4. Slight pressure on the bag facilitates the action of the gas. 5. Drop- ping of the chin indicates full narcosis. Hillisher4 * has administered nitrous-oxide gas with from ten to fifteen per cent, of oxygen to 2901 pa- tients, producing peaceful sleep for a long time, and he considers it the ideal aniesthetic. He has devised an apparatus for the definite mixture of the gases, and claims to have eliminated the necessity of pressure, which according to the extensive experiments of Paul Bert was essential. Bromide of Ethyl.—This should be administered on an open inhaler, in drop doses for the first few seconds, and then the full dose should be applied close to the mouth. Anaesthesia usually occurs in from fifty to sixty seconds. Accidents of Anaesthesia. Asphyxia.—Asphyxia may result from the following causes: 1. Muscular rigidity of the jaws, which can be overcome by forcibly hold- ing the mouth open. Spasm of the respiratory muscles probably never leads to a fatal result.6 2. Mechanical closure of the laryngeal opening by the epiglottis,6 or falling backward of the tongue, which may best be relieved by flexion of the neck, with moderate extension of the head and elevation of the jaw by means of the fingers placed behind its angles.7 3. Accumulation of mucus, which must be removed by sponges, or by turning the head to one side. 4. Presence of foreign bodies, as, for instance, teeth, blood clot, masses of new growth, sponges, etc., which should be removed, if possible, through the mouth, but other- wise by tracheotomy. Blood may be removed by suction with a suit- able syringe. 5. Respiratory paralysis from over-dosage. If the face is flushed and cyanotic, the failure is respiratory and the head should not be lowered, while if the face is pale, the failure is primarily cardiac and the head then should be lowered.8 1 Lawrie. Therapeutic Gazette. 2 Buxton, Anaesthetics ; Medical Record, 1890. 3 British Medical Journal, 1892. 4 Allg. Wien. med. Presse, 1889. 5 McCallum, Medical News, 1892. 6 Buxton, Anaesthetics. 1 Martin and Hare, Annual of Uuiv. Med. Sciences, 1890. 8 Hare, Practical Therapeutics.