275 CARCINOMA. Those cases which originate in congenital warts and nsevi are, on the other hand, among the most difficult of cancers to treat successfully; in- deed, of the eleven cases collected by Yolkmann, in every one there was recurrence after operation, and death ensued within eighteen months of the first appear- ance of the tumor. Michael has since reported a case from the Tubingen clinic, however, in which the . patient re- mained well, having been kept under ob- servation for nearly four years. Rapid glandular infection is commonly seen in these cases. When the warts are of later appearance the prognosis is much better, nearly one- half of such cases being known to have ended in cure.' The cases of the third class, develop- ing from healthy skin, of which one- half were situated on the back of the hand, also have a fair prognosis. Michael adds to Volkmann’s cases those which oc- curred in the Tubin- gen clinic, as well as Schneider’s, from Yon Bergmann’s clinic, reach- ing thus a total of two hundred and sixty-three cases, of which only seventy-eight occurred in women; the ages of the patients varied from twenty to ninet}7 years, but one-third were between fifty and sixty years. Thirty-five per cent, of the cases occurred on the leg and twenty-four per cent, on the dorsum of the hand. The upper and lower extremity were affected in the relative proportion of about two to three. The rarest situation was the palm of the hand, only three cases being known in that position, which is in curious contrast to the frequency with which the dorsum is attacked, as well as the sole of the foot, the disease having been observed nineteen times in the latter locality. I ! append two illustrations of epithelioma of the dorsum of the hand. Fig. 1600 shows the fungating form. Fig. 1601 represents an in- stance of very early development. Extensive epithelioma of the skin, occurring either as a single tumor Fia;. 1(501. Epithelioma of Hand developed in Cicatrix of Burn received in Childhood. Patient, an Italian, twenty-five years of age.