INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS AND ANEURISM. 348 it is always at hand, and in that respect leaves little to be desired. Steam heat kept up for forty or fifty minutes prepares silk for any emergency. Catgut, properly prepared, is doubtless quite as efficacious. My own preference is for silk. I use it always and have no complaint to make. Perhaps the first and most important advantage which is brought about by aseptic operation is the absence of suppuration; the ligatures applied to vessels remain and are not cast out. One end of the liga- ture is not allowed to hang out of the wound for the purpose of with- drawal, hut the wound is closed and nothing ever is seen of the liga- tures, which, being cut short, remain permanently. The method by which the definitive closure of an artery is brought about when ligated is described differently by different observers. It appears certain, however, that, while in applying the ligature the in- ternal and middle coats are easily bruised and perhaps divided, such bruising and division are not necessary. What is necessary is that the internal surfaces of the artery should be pressed together and the lumen thus closed. Great stress was formerly laid on the necessity for dividing by ligature the two internal coats—a necessity now known not to exist. Again, it is a point about which there is difference of opinion as to whether a proximal thrombus is necessarily present in an artery after ligation. As a matter of fact, it usually is, and while it may not be necessary as an essential factor of the obliteration of the vessel, yet it does by its presence diminish the shock of the blood against the point ligated, and furnishes a medium in which the blood-vessels may prolif- erate and assist definitive and permanent closure of the vessel, and a framework for granulation tissue. It is probable that the extent of the traumatism enters as an immediate factor into the size of the throm- bus, and it is probable, also, that the presence of sepsis influences unfavorably the organization of the thrombus, as it unquestionably does the exudation surrounding the ligated point. In this connection it is worth noting that Warren calls attention to the presence of clots in the hypogastric arteries of newly born infants; and in certainly one instance found a clot of large size in the obliterated ductus arteriosus of a young child—a place from which both trauma and sepsis could be excluded. In veins there appears to be no doubt that the presence of a clot is not necessary to insure definitive closure after a wound; the lateral ligature of the vein wall shows this, the lumen of the vessel be- ing restored by immediate union of the opposed surfaces; and in the same way a fine lateral suture of the wounded vein wall is followed by permanent closure. Hence the presence of a proximal thrombus is to be considered in relation to arteries only. It is proper to consider the method by which a ligated artery is closed definitively, in much the same way that one is accustomed to consider the formation of callus in rela- tion to a broken bone. A vessel tied without much disturbance of, or interference with, surrounding parts heals with a minimum of callus (clot), whereas if there is much injury to soft parts and much denudation of the vessel wall the amount of callus is increased. Investigators are not in accord as to how this callus is formed: whether it be by imme- diate union of proliferating cells from the intima, by the exit of wander- ing cells from the vessels, by proliferation of connective-tissue cells, or