ULCERS. 163 granulating surface be covered to protect it from injury and from the accumulation of foreign matters, although, even when the latter con- ditions are not present, we often see very rapid cicatrization, such as that which takes place under a scab made up of the dried discharge from the granulations and foreign matters brought into contact with them. This method of healing is taken advantage of sometimes in small ulcers, where an aseptic scab is formed by dusting the surface with powdered iodoform or aristol. It is, however, a matter of com- mon experience that even healthy ulcers heal more promptly if kept perfectly clean and free from irritation. Treatment of Healthy Ulcers.—The skin surrounding the ulcer should be washed with soap and water, and shaved if hairs be present, the surface of the ulcer being then irrigated with a solution of boric acid, or with boiled water, and being covered with strips of protective which have been sterilized by dipping them in a 1-2000 bichloride solution, and then washed in one cf boric acid. These strips should he large enough to cover the ulcer and extend a very short distance beyond its edges. Over them should be placed a pad of bichloride, iodoform, or sterilized gauze, consisting of at least a dozen layers, and large enough to extend in all directions a few inches beyond the edges of the ulcer; over this, again, is placed a layer of sterilized or bichloride cotton, a little larger than the gauze pad, and the dressing is held in position by the turns of a roller bandage, or by strips of adhesive or rubber plaster. This dress- ing need not be changed for some days, unless it becomes soiled, and in re-dressing the ulcer the same method should be adopted. The pro- tective prevents the adhesion of the gauze to the granulations, and be- ing applied in strips slightly overlapping each other, allows the dis- charge to find its way out and to be disseminated through the gauze. If for any reason another form of dressing is desired, good results may be obtained by use of an ointment consisting of carbolic acid Trp xvi., boric acid 3ij-, vaseline 3i. This is spread upon apiece of lint, which should be fenestrated, and a little larger than the ulcer, and which, after the part has been cleansed and irrigated is gently laid over the granulat- ing surface and covered with gauze, cotton, and bandages in the way al- ready described. At the end of three or four days the dressing should be removed, and a new dressing applied in the same manner. If the granulations become exuberant, they should be touched with the solid stick of nitrate of silver. Inflamed or Phlegmonous Ulcer.-—This condition may develop in a healthy ulcer either from accidental irritation, or from a change in the constitutional state of the patient. In this variety of ulcer the granulations at first become intensely red, and then dusky or gray, while a thin sanious discharge escapes from the surface; the surrounding skin and cellular tissue become involved’in phlegmonous inflamma- tion, which gives the part a dusky red and glazed appearance. Treatment.—In the treatment of this form of ulcer it is important to put the part at absolute rest, and if possible to elevate it; if the ulcer be situated upon one of the extremities, so that it is possible to employ continuous irrigation, this will be found to be very efficient. The part containing the ulcer should be placed upon a rubber sheet so arranged as to carry off the water, and a piece of gauze composed of a