360 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Of late, however, Apollonio appears to have adjusted these discrep- ancies more satisfactorily. Examining a large number of arterial liga- tions in animals by means of series of sections, and staining the mitoses, he found that in various portions or sections of the ligated arteries en- tirely different tissue-elements took part in the organization of the thrombus, as well as in the repair of the arterial walls. In the neigh- borhood of the ligature, atrophy of the vessel-walls took place, and re- generation and organization of the clot was effected by leucocytes. In sections more removed from the ligature, however, but occurring in the same artery, where the intima adjoining the portion undergoing atro- phy was stimulated to proliferation, the organization of this part of the clot was due to the proliferation of the intima. The conclusion drawn from these observations is that any histological element capable of pro- liferation may take an active part in the organization of a blood-clot, a conclusion which not only at once unites all the dissenting views of numerous accurate observers, but one which is substantiated in some particulars by observations less generally accepted. Thus Warren declared that muscle-elements could take part in the organization of the thrombus, a point which had once been maintained but was afterward again abandoned by Zahn. The remarks made thus far pertain to traumatic arteritis in healthy tissues only, and it is apparent that the process encountered, of infiltra- tion and proliferation with new vessel-formation and cicatrization, is more characteristic of the course of repair, than of inflammation proper. With the neglect, however, of precautions to preserve the field of experimentation free from infections or chemical irritations, more serious inflamma tory reaction may be observed; and suppuration and necrosis may be induced through the introduction of a contagium vivum into the wound. In such forms of traumatic arteritis of a septic nature, greater num- bers of emigrated leucocytes are found, with copious fluid extravasa- tion, gelatinous in character and not spontaneously coagulable. Here, too, reproduction of tissue elements takes place. The wall of the artery presents a cloudy appearance, assumes a brownish-yellow color, loses its consistency, and finally, being permeated by immense numbers of round cells, melts, and is dissolved into pus, or succumbs to necrosis in irregular shreds and particles. The thrombus shares the same fate; it is turned to a yellow or brownish pulpy mass through the action of micro-organisms, and may become more or less putrid. Embolism of virulent septic matter may occur through the melting of the thrombus, or secondary hemorrhage may be caused by the sudden yielding of an occluding clot in the lumen of an artery. Septic emboli may reproduce this picture of septic arteritis in remote vessels. Perfectly analogous to the forms of traumatic arteritis just described, are the other forms of arteritis of non-traumatic origin, and this anal- ogy has become more marked with the tendency to assume some damage to the tissue as the immediate cause of inflammatory conditions in the economy. In this way not only the simpler idiopathic forms of acute arteritis are viewed at the present time, but also those chronic changes which affect principally the internal coats, and are classed in many handbooks