843 OPERATION FOR CANCER OF THE BREAST. 1 Stiles, loc. cit. Incision for Removal of Mammary Cancer.-—The usual cut has been double and elliptical, made parallel to the fibres of the pectoralis major and including the tumor and the nipple. The numerous recur- rences in the scar led S. W. Gross to suggest the ablation of the skin cov- ering the entire gland by a circular incision over the periphery. This method is unnecessary in many cases when immediate healing is desir- able, and often makes closure by first intention impossible, without diminishing the liability to recurrence; for if the seat of the tumor be at the breast margin, and if the skin is implicated, a broad space of sound tissue must be assured by making the cut far beyond the mammary circle. If the whole gland is clearly affected, the cut must include the skin be- yond the breast by a circular margin at least an inch in diameter, and the parts must be removed regardless of the difficulties of closing the wound. When the nodule is small, non-adherent, and movable, it is unnecessary to make the circular cut of Gross, though it is well to take as much skin as can be spared and yet have effectual approxima- tion. The error should lie rather in the direction of sacrificing too much than too little skin. The principle is “so to plan the incision as best to facilitate the removal of the entire organ, and at the same time of whatever skin is diseased or is at all likely to be so.” 1 Stiles recommends the following method, based upon his anatomical studies of the breast:— “In a simple case the old elliptical incision, if sufficiently large, is the best incision to employ, so far as the removal of the entire gland is concerned. It should be made parallel to the oblique diameter of the breast, its lower extremity reaching well down below the costal margin close to the ensiform cartilage, and its upper extremity terminating at the outer border of the pectoralis major opposite the third rib. The ellipse should be widest at the nipple, and should there measure at least four inches across. “ If the ellipse includes the whole of the skin over the tumor, the surgeon may at once proceed to reflect the flaps off the breast; but, if the tumor does not fall within the ellipse, the skin over it should be removed by a triangular incision (as recommended by Dr. Joseph Bell, Edinburgh Med. Journal, 1871), the base of which forms part of the ellipse. This plan should he followed not only when the skin is evidently involved, but even when it is freely movable and apparently healthy. It will be obvious that unless such a method be adopted, the ligaments of Cooper, containing lymphatics in direct continuity with those about the tumor area, and therefore liable to contain cancer cells, will he left, and consequently recurrence in the skin or subcutaneous fat will be liable to occur. I believe neglect of this procedure is often responsible for the superficial recurrent nodules which are not infrequently observed in and close to the cicatrix. A combination of these incisions will be most suitable in the majority of cases in which the tumor is peripheral—the result being a T-shaped cicatrix. The lower and outer flap should first be dissected oif the breast, keeping as close to the skin as is consistent with the maintenance of its vitality. This dissection should he carried as low down as to the seventh rib in the mid-axillary line. The upper and inner flap is reflected inward beyond the edge of the sternum, and upward almost as high as the clavicle. It is to allow of this free dissection that we recommend that the axillary incision should be made at the same time as the ellipse.” The breast should now be dissected from the pectoralis major, and the fascia of that muscle thoroughly removed. The dissection should be carried far into the periglandular fat under the flaps in all direc-