ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 985 cle are described by Heaton.1 The first was in a man aged twenty-seven years, who had had a reducible congenital hernia on the right side with undescended testicle. Strangulation occurring, the sac was opened and the gut readily reduced, but the patient died on the fifth day of inter- nal strangulation. On post-mortem examination the testicle was found toward the iliac fossa, where it had dragged with it a pouch of perito- neum which lay between the general peritoneum and the wall of the ab- domen. This pouch had a diverticulum which passed into the scrotum. The included intestine had been pushed up from the scrotal diverticulum into the main pouch, the opening into which was the seat of the constriction. The other case occurred in a man aged forty-five years. He had an undescended testicle which was accompanied by a lax bag of fluid. Symptoms of strangulation occurring, an incision over the tumor gave vent to two ounces of clear hydrocele fluid; a thick-walled tumor was found at the bottom of the sac, as also an atrophied testicle. The swelling being opened, about six drachms of dark serum escaped, and a ragged opening was seen leading into a third sac, which con- tained a coil of strangulated intestine. It was evidently a strangulated hernia which had in its descent pushed before it the enlarged tunica vaginalis of an undescended testicle as it lay in the inguinal canal— in other words, it was an example of the strangulated encysted hernia of Sir Astley Cooper. Inflammation of the Seminal Vesicles.—This usually occurs sec- ondarily to inflammations of the urethra, gonorrhoea being its most com- mon origin. According to Mr. Jordan Lloyd 8 it rarely terminates in suppuration, but when it does, the abscess should be punctured through the perineum and not through the rectum. Ullman 3 advises excision of the seminal vesicles when they are af- fected primarily with tuberculosis, and when, in primary tuberculosis of the testicle or epididymis of one side, there is involvement of the semi- nal vesicle of the same side, the remaining organs of the opposite side being healthy. He operated as follows: A semilunar incision, concave toward the sacrum, was made in the perineum midway between the anus and the scrotum. A careful dissection was then made and the prostate exposed. The rectum was pressed back and the bladder caused to protrude by means of a sound in the urethra. By these means the seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia could be distinctly seen. Both the right and left vesicles were removed, together with a part of the pros- tate. The left vas wras left in place. A drainage-tube was inserted and the wound sutured. Hemorrhage afterward occurred, for which the wound was packed. In all reported cases of tuberculosis of the seminal vesicles impotence has followed in a short time. Spermatocele and Spermatic Fistula.—The occurrence of a fistula of the testis discharging semen is probably unknown. Mr. Curling objects to applying the term to the cases of encysted hydrocele which contain spermatozoa, and it is usually restricted to such cases of reten- tion of semen in obstructed ducts as resemble those which occur in the mammary gland. The nearest approach to this supposed affection 1 Lancet, Jan. 27, 1894. 2 British Medical Association, meeting of August, 1888. 3 Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, 1890, S. 137.