DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 524 With regard to excision, it may be said that in general the results are extremely satisfactory in young children, and less so in adults. _ In eighteen cases analyzed by Dr. C. L. Scudder,1 six patients died, five from tubercular meningitis and one from shock. The end results in all cases were good when investigation was made years after opera- tion. Most of these cases were at first treated conservatively, and an operation was only employed when it became necessary, so that they represent a trial of conservative methods and of late rather than of early excision. In all but one case the disease was ended by opera- tion. Dr. Scudder thought that the degree of flexion and extension of the ankle-joint was slightly greater in cases successfully treated b}^ ex- cision than in those treated expectantly. No serious deformity occurred in any instance. Of 108 cases reported by Conner in which excision was resorted to, he found that in lO-J per cent, there was failure. In six per cent, the pa- tients could walk with only a cane, and the remainder were classed as good or perfect results. These figures are sufficient to show that after a carefully performed excision the result is likely to be excellent, and that the death-rate is a very low one; but none the less I would advocate very strongly the adoption of the conservative plan of treatment, which is capable in most cases of yielding excellent results, and which only occasionally fails to prevent the necessity of excision. Shoulder-Joint Disease.—Chronic sprain of the shoulder is an affection which has received very little attention, but which is exceed- ingly frequent, especially in hospital clinics, and which is much bene- fited by suitable treatment. How often the lesion should be classed as a chronic synovitis cannot be determined: in many cases it seems only a muscular contusion, persisting as a stiffness and irritability of the muscles involved in moving the shoulder joint; in other cases it is clearly a bursitis, or a teno-synovitis of the tendon of the biceps or of some neighboring muscle; at other times it is a simple chronic synovitis of the joint, sometimes made worse by the fact that the patient is the subject of chronic rheumatism. In either of these conditions the history is that after a blow or a fall upon the arm or shoulder, the pain does not sub- side, but persists for weeks or months. Tenderness is often present over the anterior surface of the joint. Motion is limited, especially in the direction of deltoid movements. Pain maybe present, and stiffness to a greater or less degree is uniformly prominent. These may be the symptoms of chronic osteitis, of rheumatoid arthritis, or simply of chronic sprain, and the diagnosis must of course be made with care, although the treatment about to be described is not unsuitable to any one of these conditions. Assuming then, as is evident from the symptoms, that the condition of the joint is one of irritability, the problem is first to quiet the irrita- tion and then to restore motion to the part. The shoulders should at first be fixed so that motion may be impossible. This is most easily done by the application to the arm of a sling long enough to sup- port the elbow, with a broad swathe embracing both arm and chest to prevent lifting the arm from the side. This combination of the sling 1 Transactions of American Orthopaedic Association, vol. ii.