93 SEPTICAEMIA. several forms of general intoxication after infection by bacteria starting from wounds, and partly the poisoning by decayed food containing pto- maines (meat, sausage, milk, cheese, fish, oysters, and clams). By filtra- tion through clay-cells, we are able to isolate the toxines from the bac- teria, so that we can study, by injecting the former into animals, their poisonous qualities, producing, for instance, severe gastro-enteritis (ty- phoid condition), nervous symptoms, convulsions, etc. If we destroy the micro-organisms in a bacterial culture by heating it above 60° C. (140° F.), we are able to study the poisonous qualities of some ptomaines, while the toxalbumins are destroyed. The kind and composition of nutrient media have some influence on the formation of these toxines, that is, the same genus of bacteria produces different toxines on dif- ferent media. Septicaemia in man is originated sometimes by bacilli, sometimes by cocci, among the latter, especially, the streptococcus pyogenes, the streptococcus septicus (Fliigge), and the staphylococcus aureus. Og- stolm and Rosenbacli found in cases of progressive, gangrenous phleg- mon, with fatal sepsis, the streptococcus pyogenes as cause of the septicaemia. In cases of septicaemia consequent upon progressive gan- grenous emphysema (gangrene gazeuse), Chauveau, Arloing, Brieger, Ehrlich, and Rosenbach found the same bacilli which were recognized by Koch as promoters of malignant oedema, a disease quickly fatal to mice, Guinea-pigs, and rabbits. These bacilli of oedema, which were formerly named vibrions septiques by Pasteur, are similar in form to those of anthrax. Of special interest are cases of sepsis consequent upon old or fresh endocarditis with embolism of microbes from old or fresh excres- cences, on which micro-organisms, the streptococcus, for example, have been colonized out of the blood. Our knowledge of artificial septicaemia in animals is more exact, thanks to Koch’s experiments, than is our knowledge of human septicae- Bacilli of Septicaemia in a Diaphragmatic Vein of a Septicaemic Mouse. Leucocytes, partly containing bacilli, partly changed into heaps of bacilli. X TOO. (R. Koch.) mia. Here we may also distinguish between a toxic septicaemia (septic intoxication) and a bacterial septicaemia (transferable septic infection). The toxic septicaemia is observed after injection of large quantities of purulent substances into the subcutaneous cellular tissue; immediately, or soon after the injection, restlessness, weakness of motion, then