215 ETIOLOGY. to be most liable to ooccidiosis, which affects the biliary ducts of the liver in the former, and the intestinal glands in the latter. This para- site appears to cause a multiplication of the epithelial cells, and indeed of the mucous membrane in its entire thickness, so that a section of the tissues at the seat of infection closely resembles in its histological struct- ure an adenoma of the rectum in man. Sections of the bile ducts show an unequal proliferation of the walls, forming papillary out- growths which fill the lumen of the canals very much as the intra- canalicular growths project into the ducts in fibroma of the mamma. These coccidial parasites are swallowed by the animal while in a quies- cent state, and then develop and multiply in the host, being situated within the epithelial cells and swelling them to a large size. They form spores which are thrown out and undergo a preliminary develop- ment outside of the body, secreting strong capsules, and are able to exist for a long time in this intermediate quiescent state while await- ing a new host. The appearance of the parasites in the liver and gall- duct epithelium of the rabbit has been found to very closely resemble certain bodies or formations observed recently in the cells of cancer. The general interest in these discoveries began witli the description of “ psorosperms” in Paget’s disease by Wickham and Darier, although Tlioma, Sjobring, Albarran, Malassez, and others had already noted peculiar bodies in cancer cells. Then Russell in England followed with observations on certain bodies to be seen by staining with fuchsin, in- cluding in his descriptions many forms which were cell-generations, but also undoubtedly some which were the true parasite. Ruffer, Walker and Plimmer, and Soudakewitcli and Metchnikoff followed. Many excellent authorities deny the existence of the parasite, and the proof is still incomplete, but it would seem that the general belief in the new theory is constantly gaining in strength. For the history and literature of this subject, already so extensive, we must refer to Ruffer and Walker,1 and to Councilman.2 The most definite descriptions and logical demonstrations of these “inclusions” or “parasites” are those given by Ruffer and Walker, and by Plimmer. They describe the main forms. One, which they consider to be the very young parasite, appears in the nucleus of a cell as a small round body, staining well with various dyes, and is evidently a foreign body absolutely independent of the nucleus itself. The second form, supposed to be the more developed parasite, contains a minute nucleus and a distinct capsule. Transition figures are seen which are supposed to indicate that the parasite bursts from the cell- nucleus into the protoplasm of the cell, where it develops to its full size and may push the cell nucleus aside and cause its atrophy. There may be several of these bodies in one cell. Finally, a third, supposed adult form, which consists essentially: “(1) Of a central, round, oval, or slightly irregular nucleus, sometimes connected by fine delicate rays with the periphery; (2) of a variable amount of surrounding proto- plasm, almost if not quite filling up the capsule; and (3) of the double- contoured capsule surrounding the whole.” The supposed parasites vary from 0.004 mm. to 0.04 mm. in size. The nucleus of the “parasite” does not stain easily with ordinary 1 Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology, vol. i., p. 198, and vol. ii., p. 3. 2 Medical News.