553 DEFORMITIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. from the tendency to readhesion which must always exist at the com- missure. This is best corrected by cutting V-shaped or oval flaps, as advised by Agnew,1 by dissecting flaps from the palmar and dorsal aspects of the web and suturing them across the cleft after division, or by raising longitudinal anterior and posterior flaps from separate lingers and suturing them in position after wrapping them around the raw incised surfaces (Didot). Should these procedures fail, a flap may be cut from the breast or thigh and turned into the cleft, the hand being firmly held by gypsum bandages until union has occurred, when the base of the flap may be cut away. Writer’s Palsy.—Scrivener’s palsy is an example of want of co- ordination in muscular power which is seen in a variety of muscles, and is observed in many classes of artisans and mechanics when one set of muscles is obliged to constantly repeat a series of movements. It is not merely a local nerve exhaustion, but often indicates a disturb- ance of the central nervous system, and is a reflex neurosis. The earliest symptom is muscular fatigue, followed by cramp and the want of co-ordinate movement. Numbness, tingling, and pain soon extend up the arm. The very earliest symptoms of this malady should induce the patient, if circumstances permit, to refrain from the use of the affected member, even placing it upon a splint or in a sling. Massage and electricity are not useful unless preceded by rest. Atten- tion to the general health is of the utmost importance. For those who are unfortunately compelled to continue their avocations, and for tem- porary assistance, mechanical contrivances for holding the pen should be attached to the hand by means of rings and broad bands so as to re- lieve the muscles. The strong muscles of the forearm should be used for moving the pen instead of the weaker ones of the hand. The oppo- site hand should at once be systematically educated to take its propor- tion of work, a process which will be tedious of accomplishment, but which may be secured by perseverance. Dupuytren’s Contraction of Fingers.—This cicatricial-like contrac- tion of the palmar, fascia and of its digital prolongations condenses the subdermal tissues, but does not involve the true skin nor the tendons except in very old cases. In rheumatic families as many as three or four members may be similarly affected. Keen’s tables2 show that a majority of cases present a constitutional taint; but Abbe3 favors the theory of traumatic and nervous origin. Treatment.—Open division is more precise than multiple subcutane- ous sections, and is no more painful. The hypodermic injection of co- caine, or local anaesthesia by the spray of chloride of ethyl, or the application of ice and salt, is sufficient to benumb the part. In open division the hand should be rendered bloodless for accuracy of section. One or more sections may be made, either diagonal, transverse, V- shaped, or oval, and the division should be so thorough that recontrac- tion will not occur. J Principles and Practice of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. iii., p. 372. 2 Philadelphia Medical Times, March 11, 1882, p. 370. 3 Med. Record, March 3, 1888.