22 INFLAMMATION. filled with the physiological solution of chloride of sodium (six-tenths per cent.) exactly neutral in reaction; being filled, there is passed into each tube a very fine platinum wire to the end of the tube, extending over the edge of the ebonite plate, care being taken that no bubble of air shall enter at the same time; the entire absence of any bubble of gas must he ascertained by means of a lens, and if any is present it must he removed with the greatest possible care; then the ends of the tubes through which the wire has been introduced (and out of which it ex- tends a little way) are closed by a drop of sealing-wax, which must be done with the other ends placed in a watch-glass of the chloride of sodium. The animal to be experimented upon is thoroughly fixed upon the board, and an incision exactly long enough for the introduction of the tubes is made in the abdominal wall. The incision must be made with the greatest possible care—with a bistoury heated to a cherry red— and absolutely all hemorrhage must he avoided. Finally, the tubes are placed in the cavity in such a way as neither to bruise nor to wound the intestinal folds, and great care must be taken not to raise the edges of the wound, in order that no air may enter the peritoneum; for if this were done, it might happen that the extremities of the wires, instead of being bathed in the serum which should join them and complete the circuit, would terminate in a gaseous bubble which would break the current and make the experiment negative. In order to avoid this, some cubic centimetres of the physiological solution of chloride of sodium may be injected into the cavity, but if the peritoneal serum is sufficient to moisten the tubes well, this procedure is unnecessary. Everything being thus prepared, the current is passed through two of these electrodes, the third acting as a control. If the intensity of the current is to be diminished, a resistance is introduced at some point of the circuit, although the distance of the two extremities of the wires produces so considerable a resistance that a galvanometer must be used at the beginning of the experiment, in order to be sure that the current is passing through. This also is the reason why the extremities of the tubes must be placed as close together as possible. The animal is covered over, and the whole apparatus placed in a moist chamber. At the end of some time, often exceeding twenty-four hours, the micro- scopic examination is to be proceeded with, and here again the galvan- ometer must be employed, in order to be certain that the current is still passing. Then the capillary tubes are removed with very great care, in order to avoid disturbing the little fibrinous collections that may be gathered over the end of one or the other of the tubes, which could easily be destroyed if the removal was effected carelessly. The whole is then placed on a slide, the free ends of the tubes are covered with a cover-glass, and a few drops of the solution of chloride of sodium are introduced under it. In this way the capillary tubes can be very easily observed under the microscope, and the evaporation of their contents is not to be feared. If, in spite of all precautions, a bubble of gas has entered the tubes, or if they are in any way obstructed, the result, of course, is not valuable, any more than when, as often happens, an end of one of the tubes has broken some of the small vessels; and it is easy to see that it is only after having repeated the same experiment many times that one can secure a sufficient number of observations, free from any source of error. In Dineur’s experiments he has obtained the