TECHNIQUE OF CEREBRAL OPERATIONS. 581 degree of pathological increase in the intracranial pressure, due to tumor, abscess, internal hydrocephalus, etc. Next the color should be observed. Lividity, or a yellowish tinge, will probably indicate a tumor. Old lacerations show a dirty yellowish-brown. (Edema of the mem- branes is not uncommon, sometimes to such an extent as to obscure to a great measure the sulci and the convolutions. I once saw it on one side of the brain, of a dense reddish color, caused by bloody serum for which no evident cause was discovered. On nicking the membranes, the serum will escape, and the sulci and convolutions may then be rec- ognized. Absence of pulsation usually indicates a large tumor, abscess, or cyst. The consistence of the brain should always be determined by touch, and the exactness of one’s appreciation of its density by touch grows, of course, with experience. The brain being exposed, we can ascertain the location of any motor centres by faradization. If this is to be done, no antiseptics should be employed after the dura has been laid bare, as they all dull the reaction of the cortex to electricity. Only sponges, or sterilized gauze Wrung Out of hot water, Keen’s Double Brain Electrode, should be used. Sachs has demonstrated that this faradization and recognition of the motor centres can also be done through the unopened dura. An ordinary faradic bat- tery suffices. The current should be just sufficient to stimulate the thenar muscles. A double brain electrode which I devised some years ago I have found very useful (Fig. 1683). The points should be steril- ized by carbolic acid and the handle wrapped in antiseptic gauze. When the brain is faradized, the face and the four extremities should be uncovered, and one observer asked to note the phenomena in each of these five regions. At the same time the points stimulated by the bat- tery should be determined by exact measurements, taken laterally from the middle line and antero-posteriorly from the fissure of Rolando. A stenographer should be present to record from dictation the observed phenomena rapidly and exactly. Should any centre or centres, or any abnormal portion of the brain, be removed, it should be done thoroughly, and in doing this it must be remembered that it is safe to cut much more freely antero-posteriorly than vertically, since in the latter direc- tion adjacent centres are more quickly encroached upon than by an antero-posterior excision. In ordinary cerebral operations it is best not to drain, but to close the wound completely, leaving if need be a little gap between two of the sutures both anteriorly and posteriorly for the escape of wound fluids. If these accumulate at the end of 24 hours, and sometimes at a later period, a pair of haemostatic forceps or a probe may be inserted between two stitches, and the redundant fluid pressed out. In operations for cysts, drainage is not uncommonly required, and in those for abscesses, gunshot wounds, hemorrhage, etc., it is a necessity. As a rule, rubber tubing is the best. Folded rubber dam is often useful. When the operation is completed, the dura should be sutured by in- terrupted or continuous catgut stitches. The point of the needle should be introduced toward the bone, so as to allow plenty of room for the Fig. 1683.