191 OPERATION AND DRESSING OF THE STUMP. of an inch, and before being applied is dipped in tlie 1-2000 sublimated solution; it should be closely adjusted, and slit at its extremities to en- able it to be fitted around the ends of the drainage-tube, below tlie safety-pins. The object of the protective is to keep the deep layers of gauze from adhering to the wound, and to protect the latter from the irritating effect of the corrosive sublimate with which the gauze is im- pregnated. The deep dressing consists of at least eight layers of sub- limated gauze, of ample dimensions, wrung out of the hot 1-2000 solu- tion, not that it may be used as a wet dressing, but simply that its aseptic quality at the moment of application may be insured; it is care- fully folded around the stump in the manner described in Vol. I., page 005. The superficial dressing contains an equal number of layers of gauze, cut of still larger size, and is applied dry; between its outer layers is inserted a sheet of mackin- tosh cloth, or some substi- tute, which again is wrung out of the hot 1-2000 solu- tion immediately before adjustment. In hospital practice, I employ instead of the mackintosh, from mo- tives of economy, a tough water-proof paper, made for the packing of butter for transportation, which becomes soft and flexible when dipped in the hot so- lution, and which answers the intended purpose in every respect satisfactorily. The object of the mackin- tosh or water-proof paper is not, as is sometimes sup- posed, to keep the dressings moist, but to prevent blood or serum from the wound soaking through to the ex- terior — where it would come in contact with the air, and might undergo putrefaction—by interposing an impermeable barrier which forces the effused fluids to turn upon themselves, as it were, and saturate the whole thickness and extent of the dressings before the}:' can reach the surface, and then only marginally and at a considerable distance from the wound. The superficial dressing is en- tirely surrounded with sublimated cotton, which, besides being antisep- tic, serves to protect the stump from mechanical injury, and the whole is then secured with a firm and slightly compressing bandage which consolidates the various portions of the dressing, and keeps everything close and snug. This dressing may usually be allowed to remain un- disturbed for five or six days, and sometimes much longer. Fig. 1595. Recovery after triple amputation. From a patient in the University Hospital.