IMMUNITY AND PHAGOCYTOSIS. 15 1 Steven, loc. cit. present we are only incompletely acquainted with the phenomena of serous inflammation, and that from whatever point of view we look at it, it appears always as an occurrence of much less importance than true inflammation, that is to say, that which is accompanied by an accumulation of phagocytes in the inflamed area. Also from the point of view of comparative pathology, serous inflammation is regarded as of much more recent date genealogically than this “ inflammation par excellence’'’ which is accompanied by a “leucocytic reaction.” In the last lecture, the theories of Virchow and Cohnheim are criti- cised in detail. The nutritive-attraction theory of Virchow is sum- marily dismissed as untenable, and many facts both experimental and natural are brought forward in regard to the injured-wall theory of Cohnheim to show that it also must be rejected. Metchnikoff lays great stress upon the different effects resulting from inflammatory causes introduced into the blood stream, and from those applied outside the vascular system. In these arguments, however, he applies the term inflammation in a way that Cohnheim, and probably also most living pathologists, would not accept. It is certainly something quite new to think of an intravascular inflammation. Quoting the phenomena of recurrent fever as an illustration of this, appears to be arguing in a way that Cohnheim would never have recognized. For what we ordi- narily understand by recurrent fever, and the poisoning of the blood that takes place in consequence of the presence there of the organisms which cause it, is something very different from inflammation as ordi- narily understood by the morbid anatomist and the clinician. If Metch- nikoff’s views of inflammation are accepted, then we must start afresh, and include in our definition of the process phenomena that have never been so included before. By his experiments, he attempts to show that the primal cause of inflammation is a digestive reaction of the protoplasm against a noxious agent. Examples of intravascular inflammation without diapedesis, as illustrated by recurrent fever and the formation of intravascular tubercles, have, so far as we know, never before been included in what is ordinarily understood by inflammation; but a very tenable case is made out by Metchnikoff in support of his opinion, and it is not surprising that he should define inflammation as follows: “Inflammation in its entirety should then be regarded as a phagocytic reaction of the organism against irritant agencies, a reac- tion which is sometimes accomplished by mobile phagocytes alone, but occasionally with the concurrence of vascular phagocytes, or with that of the nervous system.” Inflammation then is not a process for the regeneration of tissue, nor a provision for the absorption of, and conse- quent riddance of the organism from, dead and useless material, but it is' a battle against noxious agencies, especially virulent bacteria. “ Even if all his views are not accepted, facts and arguments have here been laid before the scientific world that demand the most careful ex- amination and consideration, but the feeling may well be held that the author has limited himself too much to one aspect of his subject, al- though this is prepared for in his preface, by his pointing out that several sides of the inflammatory process have been intentionally omitted.” 1 Steven concludes his review of Metchnikoff’s work as follows: “ We