INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 946 concavity of the crescent upward. From this point forward the lumen becomes a vertical slit, nis it is at the meatus. The color of the mucous membrane varies to some extent with the individual, being of a decided pink in those of fair complexion, while in those of darker hue it is bluish or dull pink. In the glans, near the meatus, it is yellowish or of a dull blue tint. The surface of the mucous membrane is usually smooth and covered with a normal gloss. It often presents a finely striated appearance. What seem to he fine pits or pouches, that are sometimes discerned, are the lacunm of Morgagni. As to the posterior portion of the urethra, first, the color of the mucous membrane of the prostatic portion is deeper than it is anteri- orly, being a distinct red. The lumen at the meatus urinarius internus is transverse, with radiating folds at either end. The cone or funnel is shallow. On withdrawing the tube, the verumontanum urethrae will be observed first as a slight prominence on the floor of the urethra, which gradually increases in size as the instrument moves outward, until it projects noticeably into the urethra, and gives thereto a crescent- like figure. In advance, still, is a small slit showing the position of the sinus pocularis, and on either side of the verumontanum can be seen the furrows into which the ejaculatory ducts open, though the latter cannot he demonstrated without great difficulty. In the mem- branous portion the color of the mucous membrane is not so dark as in the prostatic, being more of a bright pink. The lumen is a vertical slit, and the cone regular in outline. Berkely Hill1 calls attention to the frequent changes in the shape of the prostate during examination, even when the patient is lying quite still, the muscles surrounding the part easily affecting it. It is always a more or less difficult matter to obtain a satisfactory examina- tion of the prostatic and membranous urethra, and the very great ease with which annoying bleeding of the mucous membrane may he pro- voked is often a source of great embarrassment to the surgeon, and may even lead to mistakes in diagnosis. The instrument should be used in this part of the canal with the utmost gentleness. Uses of the Urethroscope.—Aside from its use in the diagnosis and treatment of chronic inflammatory conditions of the urethral mucous membrane (gleet), the discussion of which subject belongs under another heading in this work, the urethroscope is a most con- venient and valuable aid in cases of neoplasm of the urethra, foreign bodies, or impacted calculi, in the discovery of false passages, or in the diagnosis of stricture. The latter can be diagnosticated undoubtedly by other well-known means, hut there are cases in which much can be learned from a visual inspection of the infiltrated or strictured area. If the urethra is in a normal condition, it will fall in evenly behind the tube, as the latter is withdrawn, whereas if there be present areas of chronic inflammation or infiltration, leading to stricture, the manner in which the canal closes beyond the tube will be noticed to he quite different—the walls falling together unevenly, and by sudden starts. The use of the urethroscope will be alluded to again under the sub- jects of Stricture and Neoplasms. In conducting urethroscopic work, certain instruments will he found 1 Chronic Urethritis, p. 5. London, 1890.