709 TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTOID OPERATION. ation. In the presence of bone tissue that is only moderately congested, and in the absence of any other evidences of inflammatory action along the course of the jugular vein, we should certainly not be warranted in opening into the sigmoid fossa. But if the substance of the mastoid bone is found to be highly congested, and if it bleeds copiously from all the surfaces cut with the chisel or with Volkmann's spoon, we have a right to assume that a certain amount of periphlebitis must exist in the sigmoid groove surrounding the lateral sinus ; but from this circum- stance alone we are not warranted in believing that this periphlebitis has reached the purulent stage. If, however, the tissues beneath and behind the mastoid process are considerably infiltrated at the same time, we may confidently assume that the periphlebitis has gone on to the point of filling the space between the vein (lateral sinus) and the sur- rounding bone with pus, and we may proceed without hesitation to make an opening into this space and afford an outlet for the imprisoned fluid. At this point another question arises, namely, whether we shall remove the rest of the mastoid process so as to obliterate entirely the bony channel through which runs the jugular vein from the sigmoid fossa down to the side of the neck; or whether we shall rest satisfied with the establishment of a simple opening for drainage, as described above. In the few cases in which this question has arisen I have referred the matter to a general surgeon, and in each instance the re- moval of all this mass of bone has been advocated, on the ground that in no other way could wre be sure of preventing the encagement of pus at some point along this tortuous channel. Final Steps of the Operation.—Thorough irrigation of all the cavi- ties and recesses of the antrum and middle ear proper is a matter of great importance in all chronic cases. As long as any decomposing cheesy material or other source of irritation is allowed to remain stowed away in some nook or corner of the tympanum or communicating cavi- ties, just so long may we expect the old discharge from the ear to con- tinue, in greater or less quantity. A weak, lukewarm bichloride solu- tion (l-f000 or 1-5000) is perhaps as good as any other for irrigating purposes. When the solution injected through the wound into the antrum, by means of one of the canulas already described, ceases to bring away debris, and escapes from the wound or from the external auditory canal in a perfectly clear condition, the surgeon must be care- ful not to draw the inference that he has washed away all offending material from the middle ear. He should make repeated use of a slender silver probe, bent at the knobbed end, in the hope that he may in this way loosen masses which the stream from the canula has failed t-o dislodge. If, after two or three trials of this nature, he finds that the escaping fluid still remains clear, he may safely infer that he has accomplished the task which he set out to perform. It is not a matter of any importance Avhether a bulb syringe or a gravity douche be used in connection with the long slender canula. In the acute cases, where the inflammation has developed in a previously healthy tympanum, the irrigation of the cavities of the middle ear is unnecessary. They con- tain nothing but laudable pus, which is harmless if it be provided with a free outlet; and there is always danger, if we irrigate under these circumstances, of washing into the middle ear some small chip or frag-