URINARY CALCULUS. 924 man, the authors conclude that calculi develop under the following con- ditions : I. A process of necrosis, which, as in the oxamide experiments, fur- nishes the organic substance of the calculus without inflammation. II. An inflammatory process which does the same thing. III. A combination of the two causes. As would naturally have been expected, novelties and peculiarities in the gross characters of calculi have been recorded, but nothing needing citation here; nor, as far as I am aware, have there appeared any bet- ter methods of analysis than those which I brought together in the first article. Indeed, it appears to me that the less said here the better about the varying qualities and behavior of stones, and the different portions of the urinary tract which they occupy, or about the spon- taneous fracture of calculi, since any remarks which might be made would necessarily be more or less repetitions of the ideas advanced in my previous essay. One little exception may be alluded to for its novelty, touching the possible nuclei of stone; it is found in the case reported by Kendal Franks, of Dublin, which I have elsewhere referred to,1 of a man, twenty-two years old, who had in his kidney a stone the nucleus of which was a sewing needle, which had reached this peculiar locality in its act of travelling through the tissues in the endeavor which such sharp objects make to escape from the body. Symptoms and Diagnosis. Touching the subject of the symptoms of urinary calculus, too much stress cannot be laid upon the necessity for searching every case in which even obscure indications point remotely to the possibility of a stone. I may instance three personal cases which have emphasized this fact particularly to me. One was that of a boy, who had for symp- toms only a little itching at the glans penis with a persistent tendency to masturbate, and who passed through my hands and those of several sur- geons unsearched, because the suspicion of calculus did not arise. He went to one of our largest city hospitals and stayed there through the service of two surgeons, one of whom removed the prepuce without effect. For some reason it occurred to the last surgeon to search the bladder, and a stone as large as a pullet’s egg was found in it, and removed. Another case was that of a cigar manufacturer, who, after visiting a number of surgeons, applied to me for vesical irritability. He had no symptoms whatsoever excepting this one, and the urine was almost absolutely pure and sparkling. It did not occur to me to search for a stone, and I confined my surgical attentions to the prostatic urethra, and when finally I learned that this patient had visited another sur- geon, who had sought for and easily detected a stone in his bladder, my chagrin may better be imagined than described. The third case was that of a patient forty-four years old, who had been born with bladder symptoms of some indefinite sort, and had always suffered therefrom. This man had been searched in most of the cities of the West, and once by a surgeon whose name is perhaps better known 1 Sajous’s Annual, 1890. E. 33.