TUMORS. 260 Newly formed lymphatic tissue, with the addition of fibrous or fatty tissue, when it occurs diffusely in the tongue and lips, gives rise to the deformities known as macroglossia and macrocbeilia. Some cases of elephantiasis appear also to be due to neoplastic changes in the skin, rather than to a mere obstructive lymphatic oedema. The more cir- cumscribed simple or cavernous tumors have similar aspects to the blood-angeiomata. They are found all over the body, but perhaps a little more frequently on the neck and trunk than elsewhere. The cystic form is congenital, at least in its origin, being frequently found, and sometimes of large size, at birth, and is most frequently seen on the neck. The sacs in these cases may be simple or multilocular, and often closely resemble the congenital branchiogenic cysts, from which it may require the microscopic recognition of the epithelial lining to dis- tinguish them. They sometimes attain a huge size, sometimes as large as the head of the individual. While this disease, like the haematic angeioma, is one of very early life, Lesser has reported a case occurring in a man seventy-five years of age, although it then had more of the clinical appearances of ele- phantiasis. As has been said already, the tendency of pathologists is to admit elephantiasic changes under the head of lympliangeioma. The treatment of the circumscribed tumors consists in extirpation. Ignipuncture has been successful in the diffuse form, either with the actual (Paquelin’s) or the galvanic cautery. Probably electrolysis would be useful also. Sarcoma. The many scattered facts about the sarcomata which require notice can best he studied by grouping them according to the tissues and organs affected by the new growth, and I shall adopt that plan, except that I shall begin with a special consideration of melanotic sarcoma, and shall close with an account of the treatment of these tumors by the inocula- tion of erysipelas. Melanotic Sarcoma.—Among the rarer varieties of sarcoma, and one of the most malignant in its course, is the melanotic form. Diete- rich has shown, however, that the prognosis after operation in these cases is not quite so hopeless as has been supposed. In a study based on 145 cases, taken chiefly from surgical literature, he finds that this form of neoplasm is rather more common in men than in women, and that it occurs at all ages, from six months to seventy-five years, hut is most frequent from forty to sixty. The neck was attacked 11 times, the head 28, the trunk 41, and the extremities 48. The regional lym- phatic glands were involved in 22 per cent, of the cases. The tumors had existed from four weeks to twenty years. In 13 cases without operation, the patients lived on an average fifteen months, while in 31 cases of operation with recurrence, the average duration of life was over three years. Of 114 patients operated on, 9 died, 33 were lost sight of, 37 had a recurrence in from two days to fifteen months, and 13 remained well, 6 for three years or more. All of the latter had had tumors extirpated from the soft parts—labium majus, thigh, ear, scalp, and groin.