DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. 82 eczemas of the lower extremities, etc. Moreover, we must not forget that other diseases are frequently mistaken for erysipelas, as for in- stance, those erythemas which occur after eating crayfish, crabs, lob- sters, fish-liver, mushrooms, strawberries, etc., as well as herpes zoster and gouty eczemas of the skin. Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Prognosis.—The clinical picture of the so-called legitimate erysipelas of the skin, without complications, is in typical cases characterized by an acute, rapid rise of temperature, mostly up to high degrees, developing simultaneously with erysipela- tous inflammation of the skin, and a correspondingly rapid disappear- ance of the feverish symptoms, with an acute declination to normal temperature, or below it, as soon as the local inflammation ceases. The local inflammation is so typical, that it is impossible, after hav- ing seen it once, to overlook it or to mistake it for something else, in well-developed cases. As mentioned before, it starts from a small lesion in the skin, which may even, at the time the erysipelas is ob- served, be healed up. In its nearest neighborhood, we either find red dots, which merge into each other after a short time, or we find one continuous reddened surface. The color varies from brick-red to dark- red or livid. The surface of the inflamed part is slightly swollen, and therefore higher than the surrounding skin. The outlines of the affected spot are usually irregular, sometimes tongue-shaped peninsulas projecting quite far. One of the typical features is that the boundaries where the reddening stops and the apparently sound skin begins, are in most cases very sharply defined. During its progress the inflamma- tion wanders, that is, the disease not only affects new parts by pushing forward its outer boundaries, but the affected spot in toto changes its location, the inner frontiers apparently being absorbed, a condition which cannot be better described than by comparing it with the way in which spilt burning alcohol moves along, or in which, according to Volkmann, a sheet of paper is devoured by a fire starting at its edge. The erysipelatous reddening is accompanied by a more or less developed doughy swelling, that is, a serous transudation in skin and subcutaneous tissue. The redness disappears on pressure, •hut reappears again im- mediately, while the transudation pressed away by the finger cannot come back as quickly as the redness; therefore a small dent remains. Owing to the increased flow of blood to the infected spot, the latter feels hot to the touch. According to the degree of the swelling, which gives the skin a shiny, more or less tense appearance, the pain is usually tolerable, but increases much on pressure. The greatest tran- sudation is found in the lids, lips, scrotum, penis, labia, and vulva, and then on the ears, toes, fingers, point of the nose, etc. The serous imbi- bition of superficial strata of the skin and the rete Malpighii produces not rarely blisters in the epidermis, with serous contents, which in the beginning are absolutely clear, or yellow, hut after a short time may grow turbid and purulent. The blisters usually dry up rather quickly, forming crusts. We then find sometimes, under the latter, superficial suppuration, which only in rare cases of more malignant character progresses toward the deeper tissues, especially if the erysipelas is com- plicated with phlegmonous symptoms. It is hard to draw the line between erysipelas and other wound complications, if we have to deal