CARCINOMA. 295 or ill a concealed situation, and probably all the rest can be explained by accepting their origin from branchiogenic remains. To Volkmann, in 1882, must be given the credit of first describing carcinoma in this situation. Gussenbauer says that a carcinomatous tumor in the upper triangle of the neck, underlying the superficial fascia, with no primary neoplasm in the mouth or elsewhere to account for it, is probably branchiogenic in origin. He reports eight cases from his own experi- ence alone. Richard reports three cases, with live collected from sur- gical literature, so that there are already sixteen cases of this newly recognized form of disease on record. The tumors lie deeply, in close contact with the great vessels and pneumogastric nerve, and frequently adherent to them. This makes their removal difficult, but Gussenbauer claims to have more than once removed portions of the vagus thus at- tached to the tumor, without perceptible effect, and suggests that the long-continued pressure had caused so much atrophy that the function of the nerve was practically destroyed, and that its division therefore did no harm. These branchiogenic carcinomata are usually of the epi- theliomatous type, owing to their origin from flat epithelium, and they usually contain cell-nests. But occasionally they are formed of poly- hedral cells, and are typical carcinomata. Many of the tumors have contained cysts, which had evidently existed before the carcinoma had developed, but others have been solid. Primary carcinoma of the trachea is also rare. Pick, who reports a case, could only find fourteen others on record. The form is usually medullary in type, probably originating in the mucous glands, and hence usually seated where these are most frequent, on the posterior wall. In ten cases these neoplasms attained a size which required tra- cheotomy. Among the curiosities of neoplasms should be cited Letulle’s case of primary pavement epithelioma occurring in the mediastinum, in a man sixty-five years old, a thorough post-mortem examination re- vealing no possible primary infection elsewhere. The growth had a tubular structure, and Letulle believed it to have originated from the thymus. Friedlander has put on record a very singular case of epithe- lioma occurring in a phthisical lung cavity, discovered at the autopsy, originating in the wall of the cavity and projecting into a bronchus. He explains its origin by the fact that tuberculous or syphilitic ulcers of the trachea are sometimes found with flat pavement epithelium at their edges, as the result of attempts at cicatrization, and supposes that in this case the growth began at the edge of an ulcer implicating the bronchial mucous membrane. Primary carcinoma of the urethra and its neighborhood is very rare, Witzensliausen, who reports two cases, being able to find only four others recorded as occurring in the male; Rupprecht1 adds four, in- cluding one of his own, and Albarran2 one more, the total thus reach- ing eleven. Lester has reported a case in the female, occurring in annular form at the meatus, but this is quite a different clinical form of the disease. In the male cases severe urethral stricture has always preceded the malignant change. The growth is usually situated in the deep urethra, and while it causes early obstruction to the passage of urine, and gives rise to peri-urethral abscess, it seldom appears as an external tumor until very late. It is of the epitheliomatous type, but 1 Centralblatt fur Cliirurgie, 1894, S. 1119. - Gazette des Hopitaux, 1894, p. 1235.