629 TREPHINING FOR PSYCHOSES. strip from the lateral part of the right upper parietal lobe and the supra- marginal gyrus, immediately behind the Rolandic convolution. The operation lasted four hours, and five grammes of cerebral tissue were removed. Paralysis of the left arm and paresis of the left leg super- vened on the tenth day, but spontaneous recovery took place in a few weeks. Although she still suffered from hallucinations, she was so much quieter that he was encouraged to do the second operation on March 8, 1889. On this occasion he removed a similar strip from the posterior part of the upper and middle temporal convolutions on the right side. The operation lasted two and a half hours, and two and a half grammes of brain tissue were removed. The patient was more cheerful after this operation, but still offensive to those about her. The third operation was done May 28, 1889. A strip of the upper and also of the lower left parietal lobe, involving the supramarginal and angular gyri behind the occipital end of the Sylvian fissure, was re- moved. This operation lasted four and a half hours, and five and a half grammes of brain tissue were sacrificed. She still had a few hal- lucinations of sight and hearing, but many of speech, and weeping and shouting were still practised, although less than before. The fourth operation was done Febuary 12, 1890, when the triangular part of Broca's convolution was removed. The operation lasted two and a half hours, and involved one and a half grammes of brain tissue. It is especially noteworthy that no aphasia followed this partial removal of Broca’s centre. The four operations required thirteen and one half hours, and fourteen and one half grammes of brain tissue were re- moved. The result was that instead of being a dangerous lunatic the patient became harmless and mostly quiet. The operations on the other patients were much less extensive, al- though each required from two and a half to three and three-quarters hours for its performance. The removal of the centre for word-deafness apparentl}r did not produce the expected effect. One of the six pa- tients died. The result in the first case was a satisfactory one, in view of the object sought, although it did not restore the reason. In three others the result may be said to have been fairly satisfactory. In a fifth case, after improvement to such a degree that she returned to her sister’s home, the patient was found drowned, whether by accident or, as seems most likely, by suicide, is uncertain. The general impression made upon my mind after studying these cases carefully is that the re- sults were scarcely such as to lead other surgeons to perform such operations, unless it should be in exceptionally bad cases, such as the first one. Moreover, it would surely seem that two hours should be as a rule sufficient, even for these extensive operations, and I cannot im- agine that many patients would survive operations between four and five hours long, especially four successive operations. On the other hand, we must remember that Luvs, quoted by Burckhardt, says that of 130 patients who were subject to hallucinations only 20 recovered sufficiently to return to their homes, and that within three or four years 15 of these suffered relapses while the other 5 were lo£t sight of. There is no probability of cure, therefore, by medical means. Whether this fact should justify such extensive and repeated operations is a question which may give rise to a difference of opinion among surgeons. My own judgment would be against them.