DISEASES OF BONES. 454 but rather suppurative infiltration, the tissues being, in some places, more brittle than in others. In the wall of the bone the diseased por- tion is distinguished from the rest by its dirty yellow color. The amount of destruction of the bone tissue depends upon the extent to which the medulla is affected. Large sequestra are not common, be- cause extensive disease of the medulla is usually accompanied by ex- tensive separation of the periosteum, with accompanying necrosis of the whole thickness of the bone, and no possibility of the formation of a shell to constitute an involucrum. In this stage, the inflammatory products may excavate the bone to such an extent as to leave the sequestrum in a large cavity, or it may be closely in contact with the walls. The pus in osteomyelitis frequently breaks through the surrounding bone and escapes by way of a fistula, which may be broad and straight, or long, narrow, and sinuous. Periosteal, or parosteal, abscesses often communicate by long fistulae with the cavity in the bone. In persons in whom the epiphysis is not solidly united to the diaphy- sis, separation of these two parts is not uncommon. This is possible usually to about the age of twenty years, and in exceptional cases for ten years later. Separation is most common at the upper end of the tibia, or at the lower end of the femur. It occurs so frequently that it has been proposed to call the disease “ inflammatory separation of the epiphyses.” The affection in the joint leads to the formation of pus, which is sometimes thin and transparent, or semi-transparent. The synovial membrane is injected, eroded, and ulcerated. The several successive stages of osteomyelitis may be observed in the same bone in consequence of successive infections at different points. The fourth stage of osteomyelitis, or the stage of repair, consists in the separation of the sequestra, and their spontaneous or surgical re- moval. In this stage, the infective process, as such, is at an end, and there remain only the usual phenomena of the extrusion of unfit material, and the filling up of defects by granulation tissue. The de- struction of sequestra is effected by the action of the living tissues— the granulations which surround them and erode them carrying off into the circulation their constituents—and not by any chemical action of pus in these cavities. In the case of cartilage, it seems that pus may dissolve isolated fragments. On the surface of the bones, the process of repair is carried on by the periosteum, in the way in which it is carried on in all forms of osteitis. It is noticeable that the newly formed bone is more adherent to the dead bone than to the peri- osteum itself; so that there is some danger, in removing dead bone, of removing the living bone with it unless this fact is carefully borne in mind. In this stage, the medulla is not in a condition of diffuse sup- puration, though it may contain isolated and encapsulated abscess cav- ities. The degenerated medulla is regenerated with considerable rapid- ity. This regeneration takes place in part from the periphery, and in part from the remains of the medulla occupying the ends of the bone. For the minute details of the various processes of osteomyelitis, the reader may refer to the admirable work on this subject, of Ullmann, cited above. These details may be summarized, however, as follows: The changes in the bone tissue consist in a neoplastic bone formation, with the formation of new vessels and of medullary spaces, on the walls