768 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE .NECK. mann’s cases the tumor extended to the base of the skull, and could not be removed. In other cases the cyst extends into the chest and is be- yond surgical intervention. Volker has collected nine total extirpa- tions by German surgeons. I have performed the operation in three cases, without any untoward symptom at the time of excision and without subsequent complication. Hydatid Cysts.—Hydatid cysts of the neck are rare. In 1882 Rie- del could collect but fifteen cases; They were uniformly developed in the side of the neck between the mastoid process and the clavicle, and in relation with the large blood-vessels. Although the hydatid cyst may be superficial, it generally has a deep origin and grows toward the surface. In its progress it maj7 entail much destruction of tissue. When the cyst is superficial and thin-walled it may he translucent, but when deep-seated even fluctuation may be indistinct. In not a few cases suppuration of the cyst has caused it to be taken for an abscess. The removal by puncture of the characteristic fluid of a hy- datid and of its booklets, determines the diagnosis. The treatment of a hydatid must aim at its destruction, which is best accomplished by free incision and drainage. The consequent suppura- tion, which in itself is curative, must be restricted. While primary enucleation of the sac may at times be successful, surgeons familiar with the disease do not recommend this as a practice to be adopted in many cases. Surgical Affections of the Thyroid Gland. Thyroiditis.—A vascular engorgement of the thyroid gland is often seen with menstruation, during pregnancy, and in young girls while the menstrual function is being established. In the latter the swell- ing is at times sufficient to constitute a form of acute goitre. Aside from the swelling and tenderness there are no evidences of inflamma- tion. The normal thyroid gland being enclosed in a firm capsule, hav- ing no excretory duct, and a low functional activity, is protected against the invasion of the organisms of inflammation unless intro- duced through its blood supply. True inflammations of the normal thyroid gland are therefore rare. In the goitrous gland the disease is more common. To designate this class of cases the term “Strumitis” is often used. With the exceptional facilities for observation offered in Switzerland, Lebert saw but nine cases. Thyroiditis is the result of infection from without or from within. Wounds of the gland, aspiration of cysts, interstitial injections with un- clean instruments, or extension by contiguity of morbid processes from larynx or trachea, are among the external causes. Infection of the gland from internal sources may occur during any of the acute infectious diseases. It has been observed after pneumonia, malaria, diphtheria, and relatively often after typhoid fever. In the puerperal state thyroid- itis may be the first and chief evidence of sepsis. As part of a pysemic process abscess of the thyroid has often been observed. Thyroiditis of rheumatic origin has been described by a number of authors. It may develop during the height of the articular disease, may precede, or may follow it.