SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 592 charges are the cause of the most dangerous cerebral complications, because the fetor is due to saprophytic rather than to pathogenic bacilli; many of the inodorous discharges, especially in the case of in- spissated pus often found in the ear (cholesteatoma), are the most dangerous of all, being filled with pathogenic organisms. Very rarely does cerebral disease of any kind follow acute inflam- mation of the ear. Terrillon 1 records a case of cerebral abscess from acute osteomyelitis of the skull. Truckenbrod 2 reports a case from acute otitis, with aphasia, agraphia, dyslexia, and convulsions of the right arm, which entirely recovered after operation. Jansen3 records a case arising from acute otitis without any discharge. I have recently seen a similar case with Dr. S. MacCuen Smith at the Jefferson Medi- cal College. The absence of external discharge is due to the non-rup- ture of the membrana tympani. Baginsky and Gluck 4 record an acute case following the insertion of a pea into the ear of a boy five years of age. The explanation of the greater frequency of abscess in chronic cases given by Barker, is that in acute cases the mucous membrane lining the tympanum is not destroyed, and the underlying bone therefore is not affected and the disease is not propagated inward, but the deleterious products are adequately carried off by the lymphatics. But in chronic ear disease the walls of the tympanum consist of exposed and carious bone, containing numerous vessels which communicate with those of the dura mater. These cases are especially liable to septic phlebitis, which often leads to intracranial complications. In these chronic cases the disease has to be stimulated afresh before it becomes dangerous, the new infection apparently developing especial virulence. Mr. Barker5 points out that in the course of chronic otorrhoea, which may have ex- isted for years with but little trouble, patients become suddenly very ill immediately after measures have been taken for clearing out the middle ear. The new inflammation apparently is developed by incom- plete cleansing of the septic cavities, thus setting free all the dangerous material which was in the inspissated pus, and which finds a ready opening into the blood-vessels and lymphatics by the breaking-down of the barriers which had previously existed. Hence all such cases should be subjected to a course of most careful antiseptic treatment before operative interference, and the operation should be thoroughly done. Sometimes aural disease produces an abscess at a distance of an inch or two from the inferior surface of the brain, the intervening cor- tex remaining perfectly normal. The explanation, according to Mr. Barker, is that a thrombus extends into the lateral or the petrosal sinus, and from these into the veins of the interior of the brain, especially as these veins have no valves; or, secondly, that the blood-current may be reversed in these veins by reason of the thrombus. Other Cerebral Complications Arising from Disease of the Middle Ear.—These are chiefly meningitis, subdural abscess, extra- dural abscess, cerebral abscess, cerebellar abscess, and thrombosis of the lateral sinus. 1 Ball, et Mem. de la Societe de Chirurgie, Paris, tome xv., p. 555. 2 Archives of Otology, vol. xxi., No. 2. 3 Berl. klin. Wochenschr., 1891, No. 48. 4 Ibid. 5 Hunterian Lectures on Intracranial Inflammations starting in the Temporal Bone, p. 16- London, 1890.