128 HYDROPHOBIA. human being having received a bite from a rabid animal, may already have the disease pervading his system during the stage of incubation. A case of unmistakable hydrophobia treated by a modification of the Pasteurian method, with a favorable result, is recorded by Louis McLane Tiffany, in his article on hydrophobia in Sajous’s Annual for 1893. It was under the care of Auguste Murri, Director of the Pasteur Institute at Bologna. A man, 22 years old, was bitten in the calf of the left leg by a rabid clog, on March 3, 1892, and came under treatment four days afterward.. Forty-nine inoculations of 25 minims were given during a period of twenty days, emulsions containing the medullas of the 14th, 13th, 12th, 11th, 10th, 9th, and 8th days being used until the 6th day, on which medullas of the 6th and 5th days were injected, and from the 5th to the 10th day, those of six, five, four, and three days, down to the end of treatment. On the night of March 26, ugly symptoms developed. Intense pain along the spinal column, a sensation of heat through- out the body, sleeplessness, and loss of power in the lower extremities were followed on the 28th by vomiting and fever. By the 29th the paralysis of both legs was complete, and there was retention of both urine and faeces. Murri, seeing that in this case the ordinary means of inoculation were too slow, determined to try intravenous instead of hypodermic injections. Taking into account the failure of the ordinary treatment, intravenous inoculations were begun on the 29th, with an emulsion carefully prepared from cords of six, five, four, and three days. At first two injections daily were given, afterward only one; and from April 1 there was constant improvement, until by April 17 the disease 'was completely conquered. The convalescence in this case was constant but pro- tracted; the reflexes, which had been lost, returned; and the paralysis gradually gave way to a restored muscular activity. Murri concludes that the history of this case demonstrates that Pasteur’s method is not only of value in preventing hydrophobia, but that it may be so modified as to be an efficient remedy against the developed disease. He declares that the dog inflicting the bite in the above case was certainly rabid; but it might be urged that the attack had resulted from the inoculations, rather than from the bite. These, however, would not be likely to cause the genuine paralytic rabies encountered in this patient. The early experiments of Pasteur upon monkeys and rabbits led to interesting developments, in the verification of a gradual diminution of the force of the attenuated rabic virus in the former, and its intensifica- tion in the latter. It is even claimed that the augmentation of the effects, by its passage through the bodies of a number of rabbits, im- parted to it all the properties of the original canine virus. Thus he was enabled to lessen or increase the force of the attenuated rabic virus, by using the monkey or the rabbit for the medium of its trans- mission. The process of drying the medullse of animals affected with rabies, was, however, found to be a more convenient and satisfactory method of getting the exact strength of the virus for use, and has served as a basis not only for experimentation, but for treatment of hydrophobia, during the period of incubation, in the human subject. An emulsion of the graduated desiccations of the spinal cords of in- fected animals, was first tested upon the human being, in the person of Joseph Meister, on July 4, 1885, with satisfactory results; and its use was afterwards repeated upon other persons, so as to illustrate not only its freedom from immediate serious effects, but eventually to demon- strate a salutary result in giving immunity from rabies. This had been