840 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 1 Dennis, loc. cit. Mr. Gibbes has demonstrated that carcinomatous cells lie in contact with the stroma; and it is inferred that these cells pass by amoeboid movement into the intra-fascicular lymph-spaces, whence the lymphatic capillaries carry them into the nearest gland. Recurrences are dependent chiefly upon the inadequacy of the opera- tion. The disease in many cases of attempted extirpation is too far advanced for the most wide-reaching operation to be permanently suc- cessful. Could such hopeless conditions be recognized beforehand and operation be thereby avoided, the ratio of recurrences would undoubt- edly be very much diminished and that of permanent cures corre- spondingly increased. If those cases in which foci of cancer are known to have been left untouched at the time of operation are excluded, the percentage of recurrences will be greatly lessened. If to these be added the cases in which the outlook is conspicuously unfavorable, even if there be no demonstrable metastasis or untouched nodule, the ratio of recurrences will be still further diminished. Furthermore, if we ex- clude all cases in which the disease has been known to be present for a long time, and limit, therefore, our observations to cases in which the * operation is early and thorough, the prognosis, both as to recurrence and as to permanent cure, will be very much improved. The recurrence of carcinoma is influenced greatly by the histological character of the disease itself. The more typical the structure, the better the prognosis; the more atypical the structure, the more un- favorable the prognosis.1 Permanent cures are certainly influenced unfavorably by the existence of gland complications. When lymph glands are distinctly enlarged and easily felt in the axilla, complete removal of outlying cancer foci is often impossible, for the infected chain may extend beyond reach, or remote infection may already have been established. Moreover, the lymphatic invasion may have taken place by unusual channels, and wandering cells may have been swept into the supra-clavicular lymphatics, into the sternal glands, into the pleurae, or into the lymph-spaces of the corium; such complications, influencing unavoidably the prognosis, may exist without the slightest sign. Were the latter infections as universal as those of the axillary lymphatics, operations for the per- manent cure of breast cancer would be well-nigh hopeless. Even the most favorable reports show that the axilla is involved in the great ma- jority of cases, the glands being so enlarged as to be easily felt either be- fore or after the incision. That the axillary spaces are often infected by the cells of cancer, even when there is no perceptible tumor, cannot be denied, in view of numerous undoubted demonstrations of such compli- cations. In my own experience the rule has been, almost without ex- ception, that in all cases of cancer there is axillary infection, shown in almost every instance by macroscopic inspection, and confirmed by the microscope. In those rare instances in which the glands have seemed normal, malignant foci have been demonstrated by Dr. Whit- ney, either in the glands themselves or in the free spaces of the axilla. As a cause of recurrence axillary complications are of great im- portance. They are of such frequent occurrence that failure to remove the whole axillary contents is usually incompatible with permanent cure. Kiister failed in only 2 out of 117 cases to find unmistakable evidence