132 HYDROPHOBIA. In human beings, statistics show that in sixty per cent, the period of incubation varied from eighteen to sixty days, while in thirty-four per cent, the period exceeded two months. In some cases the outbreak occurred from three to six months, and in others from one to two years, after the bite. Incubation in six per cent, extended from three to eighteen days only. It is estimated that forty-seven per cent, of per- sons bitten by macl dogs develop hydrophobia. According to Youatt, two-thirds of the dogs bitten by rabid animals become affected; while Hertwig found that only six, out of one hun- dred and thirty-seven dogs bitten, died from the disease. Renault declares that lie could only impart the disease by inoculation in sixty- seven per cent, of dogs so treated. Of 796 human beings affected with hydrophobia in France, Wur- temberg, and Milan, 715 were bitten by dogs, 30 by cats, 31 by wolves, 19 by foxes, and 1 by a cow. Watson quotes 75 cases of human beings, in 40 of which the hand was bitten by rabid animals, in 15 the face, in 11 the leg, and in 9 “the arm. Bollinger reports 495 cases, in which the wound in 53 per cent, occurred on the upper extremities, in 22 per cent, on the hands and face, in 22 per cent, on the feet, and in 3 per cent, on the body and scrotum. In wounds of the face, 90 per cent, are followed by hydro- phobia, in those of the hands 63 per cent., in those of the lower ex- tremities 28 per cent., and in those of the upper extremities 20 per cent. The variability of the period of incubation is owing in part to the site of the wound, and an explanation is offered by Gibier for the shortness of incubation observed in wounds of the head and face, as well as its longer duration when the limbs, and especially the lower ones, have been bitten. He says that after the rabic virus has been deposited upon the tissues which have been lacerated by a bite, one of two things may take place: either the virus remains on the wound, or it is carried into the general circulation b}T some torn blood-vessel (com- monly a vein). In the first case it may happen that the phagocytes destroy the microbes, and no rabies occurs; but more frequently, the germs coming into contact with torn nerves are developed within the central portion of these organs, and thence are propagated as far as the nervous centres. This, in his view, explains the long duration of some incubations; for the march of the virus, that is to say, the devel- opment of microbes, may take place at first, and then only in a minute nervous fibre, whose cells offer a more or less important resistance to the invading germs; and before being able to reach the medulla and cerebral centres, the journey’s length must vary according to the dis- tance from the inoculated spot to the medulla or the brain. Gibier remarks that if the absorption takes place through a blood- vessel or a lymphatic, it is easily understood that the incubation will not be of much greater duration than in those cases in which, for experimental purposes, the rabic virus is injected into the veins of an animal. In this event the duration is independent of the situation of the wound. The incubation seldom lasts less than three weeks, and generally lasts much longer. It was the knowledge of this fact that suggested to Pasteur the idea, which has since proved so useful, that if one could render an animal refractory to rabies by means of injec- tions of attenuated virus, it might doubtless be possible to produce this