TUMORS OF NERVES—TETANUS. 381 in the production of neuralgia. Gussenbauer has reported cases of re- flex neuralgia due to constipation. Metatarsalgia.—Morton’s “painful affection of the foot,” or meta- tarsalgia, was first described by Dr. T. G. Morton, of Philadelphia, in 1876.1 It consists of severe neuralgic pain radiating from the head of the fourth metatarsal bone. There are no marked signs of inflammation, but there is tenderness on pressure over the articulation. Morton be- lieves it to be due to pressure upon the plantar digital nerves, particu- larly the fourth, for on account of the anatomical conformation of the parts, the head of the fifth metatarsal is so placed that when lateral pressure is applied it will impinge upon the head and neck of the fourth metatarsal, and nerve filaments may thus be pinched or squeezed. The disease may be caused by some traumatism, as a twist of the foot, or some unusual exertion may precipitate an attack, especially if ill-fitting shoes are worn. Sometimes no cause is apparent. Women are oftener affected than men. From frequent repetitions of the pain, or perhaps from an ascending neuritis, various neurotic disturbances may arise. In the acute form of the affection the pain may be almost intolerable, and patients are unable to bear the loosest shoe. The treatment advised by Morton in mild cases consists in rest, the application of a flannel roller over the ball of the foot, and the subse- quent wearing of broad, properly fitting shoes so as to avoid all pres- sure. Others have secured relief by alternate hot and cold douches and local anodynes, together with rest. In severe cases, Morton excises the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the fourth toe, or sometimes am- putates this toe with the head of the fourth metatarsal, securing in this way a complete cure. Tumors'of Nerves. Neuroma.—Bruns'2 regards the plexiform neuroma as a form of congenital elephantiasis. Tetanus. Traumatic Tetanus.—Of late the microbic origin of this disease has become firmly established. Carle and Rattone, in 1884, first showed it to be an infectious disease by inoculating rabbits with the pus de- rived from the wound of a patient suffering with tetanus, and producing thereby fatal tetanic convulsions. Nicolaier showed that a specific form of bacillus was present in various kinds of soil, which was capable of producing tetanus in the lower animals when inoculated. Subsequently, Rosenbach demonstrated that the bacillus found by Nicolaier could also be found in the wound secretions, and in the neighborhood of the point of entrance in the human being; and many other investigators have confirmed these statements. In inoculation experiments it was found that bacilli existed only in the immediate vicinity of the wound and in its secretions, but not in 1 Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences, Jan., 1876. 2 Beit, zur klin. Chir.J Bd. viii.. Heft 1.