339 PARASITIC DISEASES. Pediculosis Pubis.—Sometimes the parasite is met with on the whiskers and beard, and on the hairy part of the chest. The female louse is nearly twice as large as the male. Treatment.—A very cleanly method consists in applying lint satu- rated with chloroform and covering it with oiled silk. This kills the parasite quickly; to remove the remaining ova, vinegar answers well. Bichloride of mercury, in the strength of 1 grain to the ounce of vine- gar, destroys both the pediculi and ova. It should never be forgotten that the mercurials, especially when numerous excoriations or abrasions are present, may be absorbed and produce salivation. Mercurial oint- ment, quite a popular remedy, is uncleanly and should be dispensed with. Psorospermosis.—Synonyms: Keratosis follicular is (White); Ich- thyosis sebaceci cornea (E. Wilson); Acne sebacea cornea; Prolifer- ative follicular psorospermosis; General hypertrophy of the sebaceous system (Lutz); Darier's disease; Psorospermose folliculaire vegetante (Darier); Ichthyosis follicularis.—This is a disease of the skin, of un- known etiology, commencing on the face or trunk, but ultimately spreading to other portions of the body, and characterized by the de- velopment of papules of small size and of a dirty-red color, with firmly adherent and grayish, brown, or black, horny crusts which may be squeezed out of the papules by the thumb-nails. Etiology.—Darier, who was the first to accurately describe the affec- tion in 1889, and other dermatologists who followed him, supposed that the disease was due to certain unicellular, oviform parasites, the psorosperms or coccidiie. More recent investigators, however, have proved that these supposed psorosperms were in reality nothing more than altered epithelial cells. It is possible that there maybe an hered- itary factor present in the disease; the true etiology is still, however, merely a matter of conjecture. Symptoms.—1. The papular stage. The disease nearly always starts upon the face, but in time involves the adjacent parts, and then spreads to the trunk; it especially affects the axillary and inguinal regions. The cutaneous lesions are at first papillary, each papule being pin-head in size and dull-red in color; it is capped by a dark gray, brown, or black crust, which, if removed, leaves a funnel-shaped depression. At the outset there are but a few of these discrete lesions, but with the progress of the disease they increase rapidly in number, and may even become confluent in places; such patches are covered with a large brownish and oily-looking crust, with a rough and irregular surface. 2. The papillomatous or vegetating stage. Each papule, late in the disease, takes on a renewed growth and becomes excessively developed; marked elevations of the skin are thus produced, and these may be surmounted by horny crusts one-quarter to three-quarters of an inch in length. These papillomatous masses are most frequently found in the hypogastric and inguinal regions and around the arms. They are very apt to show spots of superficial ulceration, especially in the neigh- borhood of the orifices of the hair follicles; when this occurs the dis- charge is very fetid and sero-purulent in nature. The ulcerated spots are sensitive, and by preventing sleep and locomotion tend greatly to reduce the patient’s strength and vitality. When the disease attacks