INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 988 vaded from the side of the urethra, but by extension of the disease from the epididymis. The true explanation is to be found in the carrying of the bacillus by the blood to the testicle from some distant part, and in its localization, occurring through the establishment of a locus minoris resistentice, as happens in tuberculous disease of the bones and joints. Mynter 1 holds that the source of infection is undoubtedly the lymphatic glandular system, particularly the bronchial glands. While it is well known that the bronchial glands are often infected by the tubercular process without that fact being known during life, and that they are amongst the first organs to become involved, still, my own belief is that the testicles become infected by bacilli, floating in tbe blood, which have obtained their entrance into the system through some lesion of the air passages. We know that the caseous glands so common in the young are, practically, and in all probability absolutely, primary centres of the tubercular process, and that these foci being removed the cure remains permanent. In many cases of tubercular disease of the testis, after ex- cision of the affected organ the patient never has a recurrence. This would not be the case if a focus for the dissemination of the disease still remained in the bronchial glands; the operation would then soon be followed by outbreaks in other parts of the body. Tuberculosis is es- sentially a malignant disease. While not so fatal in its topical manifes- tations as is carcinoma, it shows the same tendency to metastasis by means of the blood and lymph currents, and rapidly extends itself locally. The epididymis is usually the part first involved in these cases, and from it the disease extends to the testicle on the one side and to the pros- tate gland, bladder, and kidneys on the other. It is the rule for the genito-urinary tract to be invaded from below upward. It does some- times occur for the bladder to become infected secondarily to disease of the kidney, but this is very rare. The localization of the tubercle bacilli in the epididymis is claimed by Saltzmann 2 to be due to the peculiar character of its blood-vessels. He has shown them to be smaller and more tortuous than those of the testicle itself or those of the vas deferens. The head of the epididymis is more often affected than the tail. Frequently both testicles are involved. Finkh 3 found both testi- cles affected in nine out of twenty-nine cases, and Reclus4 in twenty-one cases out of seventy-nine. The testicles are not always involved simultaneously, but sometimes one after the other. When the testicle itself is invaded it is usually secondarily to disease of the epididymis. The organ may be affected in general miliary tuberculosis, but the condition is then overshadowed in importance bv the disease in the lungs. The tubercular process propa- gates itself by direct continuity of tissue. It travels up the vas deferens and involves it and the vesiculae seminales. The belief is strong in the profession that a tubercular focus, such as occurs in this affection, will, if allowed to remain, serve as a point from which the disease will spread to other parts of the body. Mr. Jacobson6 speaks positively on this point when he says that tubercle of the testis is 1 Annals of Surgery, vol. xvii., p. 430. 5 Centralblatt fur klinische Medicin, 1888, No. 11. 3 Bruns, Beitriige zur klinischen Chirurgie, 1886, Bd. ii., S. 407. 4 Du Tubereule du Testicle. 5 Op. cit., p. 358.