INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 382 the blood or internal organs, or, at least, only to a very slight extent. It, therefore, seemed plausible that the symptoms of the disease were caused by chemical poisons generated by the vital activity of these micro-organisms. Brieger has isolated four of these toxines from cul- tures of the bacilli, and has applied to them the names: tetanine, tetano- toxine, spasmotoxine, and muriate of toxine. Brieger has also found te- tanine in the recently amputated arm of a patient affected with tetanus. Wely and Kitasato have isolated from pure cultures a very poisonous substance, allied to the albuminoids, by the inoculation of which typi- cal tetanus can be produced. Brieger and Frankel have also isolated this substance, and it is probably to be regarded as the true tetanus poison. The bacillus tetani is an “obligatory anaerobic” existing in the shape of a delicate rod, and, as usually seen, having the appearance of a drumstick, owing to the presence of a spore atone extremity; its mo- bility is slight. The bacilli can be readily stained with an alkaline alco- holic solution of methyl-blue; also with fuchsin, and by Gram's method. They grow slowly, best in an atmosphere of pure hydrogen at a tem- perature of 98.6° F. When stab cultures are made in gelatin, con- taining 2 per cent, of grape-sugar, there develops in the deeper part, at a distance from the atmosphere, a rod-like growth from the sides of which pass out streaks into the surrounding medium; at a later stage, the gelatin becomes cloudy, liquefies, and a gas of peculiar odor is set free. Pure cultures are found very difficult to obtain, but Kitasato and others have succeeded in securing them. The spores are very resistant to heat and to the ordinary antiseptics. Rosenbach found that it required fifteen hours’ exposure to a 5-per-cent, carbolic acid solution to render them innocuous. Kitasato found that moist heat of 212° F. destroyed the spores, as did also exposure for thirty minutes to 1-1000 bichloride of mercury solution. The bacilli are found in street dust and dirt, manure, and in various soils, particularly in hot countries, for which reason, probably, the disease is more com- mon in those regions. In patients affected with the disease, the micro- organisms are found in the vicinity of the wound and in its secretions, but only in very small numbers, and often not at all in the blood and central nervous system, owing to the fact that the oxygen carried by the red corpuscles is inimical to their development, while the wound se- cretions prevent access of oxygen to the site of infection (Woodhead). The bacillus tetani is non-pyogenic, hence infection may occur without the presence of pus. It effects an entrance into the body through some lesion of continuity, not being able to pass through sound mucous mem- brane or skin. It has been suggested that the cases of so-called idio- pathic tetanus, in which there is no apparent place of ingress of bacilli, can be explained by supposing that they had entered through some for- mer lesion of continuity and had become encapsulated; that then, through failure in health or some traumatism, they have been liber- ated, and that, thereupon, the symptoms of tetanus have arisen; or the original wound may have been so insignificant as not to attract atten- tion. In infants, trismus nascentium is caused by the bacillus enter- ing at the site of the umbilicus. The period of incubation varies greatly in length, sometimes being only twenty-four hours or less, at other times weeks, depending upon