677 DISEASES OE THE CONJUNCTIVA. at times spurt from between the swollen lids when opened, and the danger to those around is imminent. The hands of all in attendance should be carefully washed with soap and water, and then in a solution of bichloride of mercury (1 in 1000). Trachoma; Chronic. Granular Conjunctivitis.—Muttermilch says that the microbe of trachoma has not been found because it does not exist. According to Fuchs, “ there is but one kind of trachoma, which, however, appears under various forms.” He thinks that the disease can be traced back to gonorrhoeal infection which has caused acute blen- norrhcea, and that, this becoming chronic, its secretion has produced in the healthy eye trachoma, which has continued to spread itself as such. The numerous descriptions which have been given of the disease have caused no little confusion, but it may be briefly said to have in the beginning distinct papillary elevations with hypertrophied conjunctiva and purulent secretion. These elevations coalesce and form large, ir- regularly shaped elevations, flat or rough, and finally absorption sets in, connective and cicatricial tissues form, and the lid shrinks, becom- ing dry and curving upon itself, when entropion follows. The eye irritated by the rasping of the lid becomes rough, pannus forms, grow- ing from the upper corneal margin, and this formation of connective tissue and blood-vessels gradually forces itself down between the conjunctival covering and B.owman’s membrane, until the entire cornea may be covered and blindness follows. Follicular Conjunctivitis.—This is regarded by Fuchs as separate and distinct from trachoma, while others are equally positive that it is but a form of that disease. Follicular conjunctivitis occurs quite fre- quently among children, while trachoma is rare among them. The follicles of the former are smaller, more sharply formed, and are com- monly arranged in parallel rows on the conjunctiva, especially of the lower lid. There is little or no pain, and no formation of pannus con- nected with the presence of these follicles, and they may exist for months without the patient suffering any inconvenience. At times follicular conjunctivitis follows the prolonged use of atropine, and it may possibly be due to the presence of some germ in stale solutions. The simple eye washes are sufficient treatment for the lighter cases, while for the severer cases more heroic measures are necessary, such as pressing out the contents of the follicles by the finger nails, or by specially devised forceps. In some cases recover}" takes place without any treatment, and without the conjunctiva becoming impaired. Treatment of Trachoma.—The acute stage of trachoma must be treated by soothing washes (boric acid and salt), ice-cold cloths should be applied to the lids, and upon any threat of corneal invasion atropine should be instilled. Weak solutions of nitrate of silver (gr. i.-iv. to f 3i.) may be carefully employed at this period, provided no serious re- action follows. As soon as the acute stage has passed and the eye is less irritable, stronger applications are indicated. One of the most efficient, in that the results are excellent and that the patient may if necessary apply it himself, is the solution of bichloride of mercury in varying proportions (1 in 300, 500, or 1000). Several drops may be placed on the inflamed conjunctiva once or twice a day, according to the effects produced. The pain after the first applications will be in-