404 INJURIES OF BONES. was also a “bone-breaker.” A boy aged 13, who had had twenty- seven fractures of the bones of bis lower extremities, was recently ex- hibited by Roddick to the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Montreal.' The first fracture was of the right femur at 1 year of age. All the earlier fractures had united readily, with abundance of new bone; but not so the more recent ones, and there was a pseudarthrosis at the middle of the left femur. So useless and atrophied were the limbs, that amputation was proposed. The family history was good. Two cases in which the humerus gave way from very slight cause are reported by Sinclair.2 One of the patients was a man aged about 30, the other a woman of about the same age. In another instance, recorded by Greenwood,3 a policeman 30 years old, who “had always been a delicate man,” was throwing a cricket-ball, when he felt some- thing snap, and was found to have a fracture in the lower third of the humerus. Berbez4 saw a girl of 18, the subject of atrophic infantile paralysis of the left arm, which limb had several times been the seat of spontaneous fractures. Mollities Ossium. Cases of mollities ossium have been reported by Davies-Colley5 and by Bennett.6 Davies-Colley’s patient was a rachitic girl aged 13; she had fractures of the left humerus, right femur, and right tibia; all her bones were bent, deformed, and flexible. Bennett’s case was that of a woman aged 39, who had had spontaneous fracture of the left clavicle, which united, and 'then gave way again; one hu- merus had been repeatedly broken in its upper portion; and the left femur had been fractured. All her bones were much softened, and she suffered greatly from pain. In this instance the disease did not, as has so often been noted in adults, begin in pregnancy. Almost all the recorded cases of this disorder have been in women. But Rigby 7 saw one in a man aged 43, who had for eight years suf- fered from what was regarded as rheumatism; his hands and his chest were deformed, and both his femora were bent. Two years before he came under observation he had had a fracture of the right humerus, and then of the right femur, from slight causes. He had none of the constitutional symptoms of rickets. In another instance, reported by Barwise,6 a man aged 31 had had fractures of the left humerus and femur; he had pains in his muscles and bones, and the latter were bent. Of his five children, the last two, aged 3 years and 1 year respectively, were rachitic, and the elder one had been operated upon for bow-legs. Fractures in Persons Already Diseased. In a case reported by Dollinger9 a man aged 41 was affected with icterus, and had pains in the legs. These pains became concentrated 1 New York Medical Journal, Oct. 18, 1890. 2 British Med. Journal, Feb. 1, 1890. 3 Ibid., Nov. 22, 1890. 4 Ibid., April 2, 1887. 6 Transactions of London Pathological Society, 1884. 6 Lancet, January 16, 1886. 1 British Med. Journal, July 8, 1886. 8 Ibid., April 9, 1887. 0 Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, 6 Juni, 1891.