687 AFFECTIONS OF THE IRIS AND CILIARY BODY. sufficient time has elapsed to prove that the attachments cannot be broken. At times the iris is so engorged with blood that the mydriatic is powerless to affect it until blood has been taken from the temple by leeches, or by Heurteloup's instrument. The free use of mercury by inunction may greatly assist in causing the adhesions to give way, and therefore these two remedies—sometimes with the addition of iodide of potassium—should be pushed until the object has been accomplished. Diaphoresis also may be followed by beneficial effects, and in all but traumatic cases of recent occurrence, hot applications not only help to draw the blood from the parts but greatly alleviate the pain. This being worse at night, a dose (gr. x.) of antipyrine, or phenacetin, given one or two hours before bed-time and repeated, often relieves pain and thereby induces sleep. At times morphine will be necessary. Para- centesis of the cornea may also be performed in extreme cases. For traumatic iritis ice-cold cloths are at first of most use in subduing in- flammation, but afterward hot applications are preferable. Syphilitic iritis probably responds more promptly to treatment than the other forms, all of which should be treated according to their causes. Iodide of potassium is a safe and useful remedy in all. Synechiie unless extensive may not cause much trouble, though some surgeons believe that they excite recurrent attacks, while others regard these attacks as due to a continuance of the cause. Extensive attachments should be treated by iridectomy, though when the pupil is occluded this will avail little, because the capsule is then generally opaque. In these cases it will commonly be found necessary to remove the lens, and even then the pupillary space is apt to fill again with inflammatory material. Injuries of the Iris.—The iris is frequently torn b}T blows that do not make an external wound, and lacerations may occur at the ciliary border, causing partial (irido-dialysis) or complete (irideremia) separa- tion, and in the radiating fibres. The iris may also be retroverted so that it lies on the ciliary body. These injuries are usually followed by hemorrhage into the anterior chamber. Treatment is simple. The eye should be protected from the light and atropine should he instilled to allay irritation. When an external wound has been made and the iris has prolapsed, it may, if soon after the injury, be replaced if it is not injured, but usually it will be found necessary to remove the incarcerated portion, after which the wound should be treated antiseptically. Tumors of the Iris and Ciliary Body.—These may be cysts, tu- berculous deposits, or sarcomata. Cysts usually follow penetrating wounds, and should be removed through an incision in the nearest corneal border, the iris and cyst being drawn out and excised. Tuber- culous deposits must be treated expectantly, unless they show a tend- ency to extend, when the eye should be enucleated. Sarcomata of the iris are pigmented, while those of the ciliary body may escape notice for a time. Excision of the globe is the only proper treatment, and this should be performed early. Pupillary Reaction. — When the pupils differ in size the cause is