AX AESTHETICS AND AXJESTIIESIA. 184 9. In children and adults who already have bronchitis or are known to hear ether badly. 10. In weak and sickly persons, who, as a rule, take chloroform with less danger than the strong and robust, because they struggle less, making the strain on the heart less. 11. In patients who have taken food within four hours. 12. In obstetrical cases.1 Nitrous Oxide.—This agent is especially useful in dental surgery and in minor operations requiring anaesthesia for but a few moments, and also in the extremely weak. Its administration preparatory to the use of, or in combination with, ether, will avoid the struggling and ex- citement caused by that agent, but as the combined administration requires a special and somewhat cumbersome apparatus,2 its use in this manner must of necessity be limited to hospital practice. Ethyl Bromide.—-This agent is indicated in short operations, but its instability, impurities, and frequent substitution by ethylene bromide, which is very dangerous, render its effects uncertain and its use unsafe.3 It is, however, held in favor by a number of prominent European surgeons,4 and by a few Americans.6 Selection of Anaesthetic for Special Departments of Sur- gery.—Brain Surgery.-—Chloroform, with morphine either before or during anaesthesia, is to be preferred, as ether causes too much vascular excitement in the brain. The morphine will prolong the anaesthesia with very little chloroform. Ophthalmic Surgery.—Cocaine is very extensively used. Ether and chloroform are also extensively employed; the former seems the safer, but the latter facilitates the operation by producing absolute immobility of the patient. About the Mouth, Jaivs, and Respiratory Tract.—Chloroform is the most satisfactory, since the inhalation of a small amount at intervals suffices to maintain complete anaesthesia. By extending or turning the head to one side, the entrance of blood or other substances into the larnyx can be prevented. Senn and some other surgeons prefer to operate about the mouth during partial—“talking”—anaesthesia, secured by the administration of morphine with whiskey to semi-intoxication, when the patient will spit out the blood, etc., when commanded so to do. Dented Surgery.—Nitrous oxide gas alone or with ether is the safest and most convenient anaesthetic. Thoracic Surgery.—The choice will depend upon the symptoms and general condition of the patient (see Ether and Chloroform). Abdominal Surgery.—Chloroform should generally be preferred, be- cause it relaxes the abdominal walls most completely, and because the liability to coughing, struggling, and vomiting is not as great as with ether, which, however, is preferred by many operators.6 After the in- cision has been carried through the parietes, only a small degree of nar- cotism is required. Rectcd Surgery.—The narcosis must be very profound and, as a rule, ether is considered the safest amestlietic. 1 See Lyman, in Vol. I. - See Fig. 39. Yol. I., page 417. 3 Lyman, Yol. I. ; Annual of Univ. Med. Sciences, 1890. 4 Annual of Univ. Med. Sciences; Vrach, 1891 ; Zeitschrift fur Therapie. 5 Medical News, 1892. 6 Buxton, Anaesthetics; British Med. Journal, 1892.