INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 994 as much as we do sarcomata. Tumors of the testicle composed of car- tilage only, not being associated with other growths, are very rare, if they exist at all. Who is to say whether the cartilage is embedded in a malignant or in a non-malignant matrix? The microscope will not always enable one to do it. In speaking of fibro-cystic tumors Mr. Eve says: “One class, however, is connected by such gradual transitions to the cystic fibromata on the one hand and the cystic sarcomata on the other, that sufficient data are not always present to allow of exact dis- tinction.” Again, he says: “ There is no genetic difference between the innocent and malignant cystic tumors of the testicle: they are merely varieties of the same form of tumor.” He gives as a diagnostic point that cartilage is less constantly present in the malignant than in the non-malignant growths, and says that in nearly all fibro-cystic tumors tortuous rods or nodules of cartilage are found embedded in the stroma, and yet Paget’s famous case, one of the most malignant ever reported, presented these very characteristics. As yet we simply do not know positively as to the exact nature of the cartilage tumors. For the sake of convenience, those growths which do not return or give rise to metastases after removal are sometimes termed chondromata, and if they do return then they are sarcomata. I find it myself much easier to believe, with Mr. Sutton, that all cartilaginous tumors are in their true nature sarcomatous, and also that whether they pursue a benign or malignant course depends on circumstances about which as yet we know but little. There is a history of injury in many cases; this may, perhaps, serve to stimulate a growth to take a malignant course. The habits and occupation of the patient may also be the deciding point, and there are probably many other causes about which we cannot even form a surmise. Clinically considered, the benign character of these tumors is so open to doubt, that in their removal all the precautions should be taken which are exercised when a growth is thought to be malignant. Fibrous Tumor of the Testis.—This name is usually applied to those growths which start in the fibrous tissues in and around the testis. Poncet1 describes such a case; it occurred in a man aged fifty-seven. In five months the growth had reached the size of a child's head. There were no adhesions to the scrotum. The patient had received a blow on the parts two years previously. Testicular feeling was present on the front part of the swelling. Castration was performed, and the growth is said to have been a pure fibroma which had for its point of origin the globus minor; it weighed two and a half pounds. In these cases the testicle is so closely associated with the growth as to make its removal necessary. Lipoma of the Testis.—Roswell Park 2 published the report of a case of fatty tumor involving the testis and was unable to find the account of any similar one. It occurred in a man aged forty years, who had noticed a painless enlargement of the testicle for eighteen months. It was of the size of a cocoanut. The remains of the testicle were pushed upward. The tumor appeared solid, yet was soft and not tender. The skin was movable. The testicle was not merely embedded in the upper part of the mass, but was incorporated with the fat by apparently inti- 1 Gazette des Hopitaux, 14 Mai, 1887. 2 Annals of Surgery, May, 1886, vol. iii., p. 365.