409 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. increased amount of indican in the urine under such conditions, but this does not perhaps possess any practical significance. In an article 1 on the occurrence of sudden death after fractures, Bruns mentions the case of a woman aged 55, who broke her right fe- mur; on the fifteenth day the limb became oedematous; ten days after- ward she died after a brief attack of precordial anguish; an autopsy showed blocking of the pulmonary artery and of other vessels. He has collected 35 cases of thrombosis in the neighborhood of fractures, in 23 of which sudden death occurred. The third and fourth weeks would seem to be the usual period of danger from this source. Bruns thinks that there may be many such cases, but of slighter severity, which end in recovery. Tumors Developed at the Seat of Fracture. In a case recently seen by Professor Ashhurst and myself, in consul- tation with Professor Brin ton, a gentleman aged 58 had, apparently as the result of a fracture of the head and anatomical neck of the right humerus, a central sarcoma of that bone. He had also a well-marked hypertrophic deforming osteitis of the right femur. Amputation at the shoulder was performed by Professor Brinton, the only difficulty en- countered being the necessity of tying a very large number of vessels. The patient did well for a week, when a rubeoloid dermatitis broke out over the body and limbs, with high fever; death ensued at the end of forty-eight hours. Deakin2 has reported a case in which a young man sustained a double fracture of the humerus, in which, six months afterward, a myeloid tumor was developed, causing complete absorption of the shaft of the bone; the growth was excised, but death took place from exhaustion on the next day. Eustace 3 met with a case in which after a fracture of the femur there was a formation of hydatids, and refracture a year subsequently; amputation through the hip-joint was performed, but with a fatal result. Phelps4 mentions the case of “an old man” who had broken his humerus forty years before, and presented a large tumor developed at the back of the arm at about the seat of fracture. Treatment of Fractures. As to the general treatment of fractures, Lucas-Cliampionniere 5 ad- vocates the employment of massage and mobilization. By this method, proposed hy him in 1886, he claims that the formation of callus is fa- vored and regulated. He regards the exact restoration of the shape of the limb as of less consequence to function than the preservation of muscular tone, the suppling of the joints, and the prevention or relief of pain. 1 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 22 Mai, 1886. 4 Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1884. 3 Brit. Med. Journal, May 26, 1894. 4 Med. Record, December 1, 1888. 5 Journal de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, Dec., 1889.