294 TUMORS. The results of treatment are very satisfactoi-y, for in 66 cases reported by Partsch, Schick, and Keller (from the clinics of Bruns and Czerny), 18 patients remained well three years or more, and if we deduct 20 cases not observed for that length of time, we obtain the proportion of 39 per cent, of cures. This favorable result may undoubtedly he com- pared with that obtained in the treatment of epithelioma of the skin in the extremities, where the neoplasms also grow slowly, and where there is no obstacle to free removal of the affected parts. This is illustrated by Schick, for he found that of seven recurrences only one took place in loco, the disease in the remainder appearing again in the inguinal glands. The fact that infection of the glands does not prevent the sur- geon from obtaining a cure, if they are thoroughly removed, is shown by Czerny’s experience, for in 13 of his 17 cases the glands were af- fected, and in one other case they became enlarged after the operation, and yet he obtained 5 cures in the 14 cases observed for three years. Carcinoma of the Bladder.—Southam and Railton, in 75 cases of primary carcinoma of the bladder, found only 20 in women. They con- sider secondary carcinoma less common than primary, which is contrary to general experience; thus Hasenclever (quoted by Roesen) found only 3 primary carcinomata of the bladder in 40 cases, and Zausch in 48 cases found only 14. According to the latter, the sexes stand 10 males to 4 females in the primary, and 7 males to 27 females in the secondary tumors. According to Fenwick, papilloma coexists with carcinoma in one-tenth of the cases, but he could not decide whether the papilloma was due to the irritation of the malignant growth, or whether the latter had developed from the former. Calculus has occasionally been found to be the cause of malignant neoplasms, and Roesen has recently reported a case of large stone of oxalate of lime, which must have antedated the carcinoma, and could not have been secondary to it as is frequently the case with soft phosphatic calculi. Curiously enough, in this case and in another observed by Roesen, the tumor was situated on the an- terior wall, which is a rare situation. Southam reports a case of scir- rhus of the bladder, a hitherto unknown form of growth in this organ. Albarran, in a carefully collected series of 97 cases of operation with 43 deaths, was unable to find more than one cure. In two or three of the recurrent cases, however, the patients lived for two or three years. His list does not include the cases of more or less complete resection of the bladder, but only the less extensive operations. Among the resec- tions, Pawlik’s case, in a woman 56 years old, who remained well two and one-half years after complete extirpation of the bladder, deserves notice. In Bardenheuer’s case (reported by Brolil), in a man, in which the entire mucous membrane was removed, the patient had a recurrence in the fistula a year or more after the operation. Carcinoma in Unusual Situations.—A form of carcinoma of the neck which is uncommon, but not as rare as has hitherto been supposed, is that arising from remnants of the branchiogenic clefts. The once hotly debated question of the possibility of primary carcinoma of the lymphatic glands has now been settled in the negative. Many of the cases upon which depended the argument for the affirmative were merely instances of unrecognized primary disease of very small size,