DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. 505 If a number of pathological specimens of pronounced liip-joint disease are examined, it will be seen that the head of the femur has been crowded upward and backward. This in typical cases continues until the head of the femur is partially absorbed and the acetabulum en- larged, and finally a subluxation takes place, and the exaggerated pres- sure of the femur upon the acetabulum is diminished. After a while, in successful cases, cicatrization of bone follows, and ossification with resulting deformity—the deformity consisting of a shortened and ad- ducted limb with subluxation, as indicated by the fact that the tro- chanter is higher than the Nelaton line. The change from carious destruction is most marked in the upper portion of the acetabulum, and in the lower portion of the acetabulum there is evidence of repair in some of the specimens where there was no pressure. From specimens examined it is clear that in hip disease the head of the femur is crowded against the acetabulum in a direction upward and backward, and that the process of repair is more advanced where the pressure is removed. It is a well-known fact that in hip disease, in the acute or sub- acute stage, a reflex spasm of the muscles about the hip exists, this spasm being in proportion to the amount of inflammation of the joint. The muscular pressure thus caused in disease is very much greater than is ordinarily supposed. Physiologists estimate the force of a muscle fully contracted at from six to ten kilogrammes to every square centimetre of muscular surface on cross section. In an adult, at the hip joint, the muscles connecting the femur with the ilium may repre- sent from ten to fifteen square centimetres, and although these muscles are rarely contracted to their full extent, it is evident that the amount of force which they exert even when slightly contracted is by no means inconsiderable; and during an acute spasm, when the muscles are firmly contracted, the pressure driving the head of the femur upon the acetabulum must be very great even in a child. It is well known that the muscular spasm at its acute stage is both a tonic spasm and also an acutely exaggerated spasm on any jar or violence to the hip, or even on the apprehension of any jar or violence. This spasmodic stage subsides after a while, if the hip is kept absolutely free from motion, but it is a matter of experience that the spasm may persist for months, reappearing upon locomotion until the morbid process is entirely cor- rected and the inflamed bone has become solid. It is also known that fixation of the hip joint is a difficult matter, and that complete fixation (that is, the prevention of even the slightest motion) is impossible. The femur can be fixed, but the ilium can not. This is true for the reason that neither the thorax nor the abdomen can be compressed to the point of firm fixation, and that the lumbar spine is capable of more or less motion. Furthermore, no amount of fixation can draw the head of the femur away from the acetabulum—that is, distract it—and pathological evi- dence would show that where pressure is entirely removed the process of repair is promoted. It would appear, therefore, that if a pulling force can be applied which will not only counteract the spasmodic muscular force, but actu-