500 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. been advocated as a means of preventing the generalization of tubercu- losis, but that this result is not obtained is shown by such figures as those of Koenig,1 who reported that in 21 cases of hip excision, 47.6 per cent, of the patients died of tuberculosis inside of four years. In 837 cases of resection analyzed by Wartmann, it was found that 10 per cent, of all deaths were the result of rapid miliary tuberculosis, and Mr. Barker, a warm advocate of early excision, says that in 10 per cent, of all deaths following the operation “ rapid miliary tuberculosis came on in such a way as to suggest strongly, if not to prove, that the surgical interference was the cause of the generalization of the disease.” (2) The Functional Results to he Obtained.—In 100 cases analyzed by Mr. Wright, another warm advocate of excision, the results were as follows:— Soundly healed, ... 17 Unhealed, .57 Dead or dying, .18 In bad condition, 3 Amputated, .......... 4 Recent case, doing well, 1 Total 100 In analyzing this table it appears that about 20 per cent, of the cases may be classed as unsatisfactory. As 30 cases had been in pro- gress only nine months or less when excision was done, they represent the most favorable class for operation, and we should look here for the best results. If compared with the results given above as obtained by mechanical treatment, it is easy to see that they are manifestly inferior; indeed this might be anticipated, because removal of part of the bone necessitates shortening, while destruction of the joint capsule and of the ligaments must necessarily leave a less efficient joint than can be obtained by any process less destructive in its character. The London Clinical Society’s Committee2 investigating the ques- tion of hip excision, report “that the limb after treatment by rest and extension, though frequently more or less fixed, is more firm and useful for purposes of progression.” Grosch3 declared as the result of an extensive analysis of cases of hip excision, that the results were no better than they had been before the days of antisepsis. In reviewing these figures, which have been presented very briefly, it does not seem that the case for excision is a very strong one. Evi- dently the mortality rate is high, and if one considers the remote deaths following excision, it is much higher than by conservative treatment. The operation does not prevent systemic infection, as has been claimed for it, and its functional results are not so good as after mechanical measures. It is difficult, therefore, for an American surgeon to under- stand on what ground Mr. Barker, for instance, can advocate excision of the hip joint “as soon as it is suspected that caseation is advancing in it,” until Mr. Barker explains that he regards “tubercle in the light of a malignant growth,” and of course would deal with it by most radical means. Of course, if one believes as Mr. Barker does, the position of such extremists as Mr. Wright and himself can be under- 1 Arch. f. klin. Chirurgie, Bd. xxvi., S. 822. 2 Transactions of Clinical Society, vol. xiv., p. 234. 3 Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1882.