TUMORS. 292 Fehling, and Terrier and Hartmann, I find reported 798 cases of vagi- nal hysterectomy, and from those of Czerny, Schede, and Hochenegg 53 cases of sacral extirpation. The mortality after vaginal hysterec- tomy is 9.7 per cent., but in the hands of some operators it falls as low as 5 per cent. Of the cases which ended in recovery, the subse- quent histories are known in 490, and in 198 of these recurrence took place, while 192 patients remained well but had not yet passed the three- year limit, and 100 had passed that limit in safety. There were there- fore 26.4 per cent, of cures; or, deducting the fatal cases, 33.4 per cent, of the patients who recovered from the operation, and had not been lost sight of, were cured. From the same sources I have been able to clas- sify separately complete lists of all the cases operated upon by certain of the operators (Fritsch, Fehling, Terrier and Hartmann, Schauta, and Leopold) previous to the three years immediately preceding their reports, thus excluding all cases in which the patients had not had the opportunity to reach the limit, there was a total of 156, with 15 deaths, 20 patients lost sight of, 60 recurrences, and 61 cures. This gives a percentage of 44.8 per cent, of cures in the cases kept under observa- tion, or 50.4 per cent, of the cases in which the patients recovered. These numbers include, to be sure, the much-criticised results of Leopold, but also the rather unfavorable cases of Terrier and Hartmann, and even if we omit Leopold’s cases the figures still remain 35.8 per cent., or, deducting the fatal cases, 41.3 per cent. The results of vaginal hysterectomy for cancer can therefore he said to be unusually good, certainly better than those of similar operations upon the breast. The sacral method in extirpation of the uterus has been demonstrated to be feasible, and the mortality has fallen, so that Czerny lost only one in eight cases, although Schede, operating apparently in more des- perate cases, lost eight out of 28. I have found only two cases of cure in the 53 on my list. The utility of the method is doubtful, for, as a rule, when the infiltration has extended so far as to contra-indicate vag- inal extirpation, the sacral method will not suffice to remove all the disease. Those unusual cases in which the infiltration extends back- ward, and not into the broad ligaments, are the only ones in which the method can claim any natural rights. Abdominal hysterectomy for cancer, although much more often done than formerly, and with constantly decreasing death-rate, has not as yet enough cases to its credit to enable one to speak authoritatively as to its merits. The only operation which competes seriously with vaginal hysterec- tomy is supravaginal amputation of the cervix. Winter, including Schroeder’s cases already published, found in 155 cases a mortality of ten, but in the last 64 cases not a single death. Excluding four pa- tients operated upon within three years, he found 151 cases with 10 deaths, 80 recurrences (13 after the third year following operation), and 46 patients free from recurrences for three years or more. Omitting the cases lost sight of before the three-year limit, the cures amount to 32.4 per cent., or 34.8 per cent, of the recoveries. This is not quite as good a result as that just given for vaginal hysterectomy, even when Leopold’s favorable showing is omitted. Byrnes has recently claimed to have done 359 high amputations of the cervix with the cautery, within twenty years, with only 2 deaths