266 TUMORS. including one dermoid-sarcoma and three myxomata. In these ten cases three patients died from the operation (high mortality being a recognized characteristic of malignant tumors of the ovary), two had recurrences, and the remaining five continued well, one of these having been observed for four years after the operation. The prognosis there- fore is not absolutely hopeless, although it is certainly very bad. In the vagina also sarcoma gives a very had prognosis. It is not a com- mon tumor, and Gow was only able to find thirteen cases, nearly all oc- curring in married women, chiefly between thirty and forty years of age; all but one of the tumors, which were usually single, were seated in the lowest third of the canal. Recurrence after removal was the rule almost without excep- tion. Sarcoma of the penis is rare, and Fischer, who records a case of the melanotic form, was able to find only three others in sur- gical literature. I can add nothing to Mr. Butlin’s excel- lent account of sarcoma of the testicle, but give an illustration (Fig. 1599) from a case in which the disease was developed in an undescended testis. The patient, a man 22 years of age, says that in his eleventh year he received a kick in the scrotum which drove both testicles up into the groins, where they have remained ever since. The left testis lies in the inguinal canal and is healthy. A hernia exists behind it. For two or three years the other testis, in the right inguinal canal, has been en- larged, and for five months it has been growing more rapidly and has been painful. The patient denies any venereal history. The tumor is hard, not tender, and three or four times the size of the normal Sarcoma of Ectopic Testicle. gland. The skin is not adherent, but the tumor is fixed in the canal. The testis was removed in February, 1894, by Dr. Robert F. Weir (to whom I am indebted for permission to publish the case), at the New York Hospital, and the clinical diagnosis of sarcoma of the testicle was confirmed microscopically. Sarcoma of the Bladder and Prostate.—Although sarcoma of the bladder was previously supposed to be very rare, there can be no doubt that it is really quite common, for Fenwick has been able to col- lect fifty cases, and refers to nine specimens preserved in the London museums. Of the fifty cases, 34 per cent, were of round-cell tumors,