932 URINARY CALCULUS. had abandoned the same procedure in England at the same hospital a cen- tury and a quarter before. That the suprapubic operation is eminently a better one now than it was in the days of Cheselden, no one need doubt; that its adaptability is very great in many cases of large stone, vesical tumor, and the like, may also occasion no question; but the mor- tality of the operation is still very high, and its popularity has led to its abuse even in good hands. Some modern statistics are exceedingly bad—such as those of Dittel, who in reporting his 600 cases of stone1 includes 22 suprapubic cases with 5 deaths, a mortality of twenty- two per cent., while in his table of 487 cases, already cited in this arti- cle, the suprapubic mortality in 26 cases was 46.54 per cent. Hunter McGuire, of Richmond, on the other hand,2 in 26 suprapubic cystotomies records only 1 death, a mortality of less than four per cent. Vassini, in Vienna, has 21 cases with 1 death; Eigenbrodt,3 in 38 cases 7 deaths; Buckston Browne, 13 cases and 4 deaths;4 Mayo Robson,6 18 cases without a death, and Rydygier6 must not be forgotten as having reported a successful intraperitoneal cystotomy, removing the catheter on the fifth day; but it must be remembered that Cabot’s most modern statistics of 744 cases at all ages give a mortality of about nineteen per cent. Preparation of the Patient. The minute details of preparation for operation which were formerly so urgently insisted upon are now no longer deemed requisite, at least to the same extent. I refer here particularly to the preparation for litholapaxy. That this operation may be undertaken with a proper guaranty of success, it is only necessary beforehand that the calibre of the urethra shall be definitely estimated, so that the size of the tubes which may be used shall have been ascertained before the operation is commenced. It is not necessary to educate the urethra, as it was for- merly called, to a tolerance of instrumentation, because no such educa- tion can so train the urethra that it will not resent the very consider- able traumatism in the way of friction, to which it must be subjected during the operation of litholapaxy, by the frequent introduction and withdrawal of instruments. And if this traumatism affects only the surface, and if this surface and the fluids in which it is bathed are ren- dered aseptic, no serious reaction is likely to ensue whether the urethra has been previously educated to instrumentation or not. I have fre- quently operated upon a patient upon the day of his arrival in town from a considerable journey, and have never yet had to regret this seeming precipitancy. The rendering the contents of the bladder aseptic, however, is a matter of the first importance, and often in old chronic cases of vesical catarrh well-nigh impossible. Guyon has emphasized the fact which many conscientious observers have demonstrated, that the urine in a healthy bladder is absolutely aseptic and contains no germs. Not so, however, the purulent fluid which often surrounds a urinary calculus; this is swarming with bac- 1 Wien. med. AVochensclirift, Jan. und Marz, 1890. 2 Medical News, March 7, 1890. 3 Zeitsclirift fur Chirurgie, Bd. xxviii., H. 12. 4 British Medical Journal, March 15, 1890. 6 Sajous's Annual, 1891, E. 12. 6 Wien. med. Wochenschrift, 16 Aug., 1890.