PREPARATION OF THE PATIENT. 933 teria, and forms a mass of vegetable organic life of great variety and infinite pathogenic capacity. To destroy all of these bacteria is often impossible, but the more nearly it is accomplished the more certain are we to observe moderate reaction after a crushing operation. The internal means (which are now relied upon with more or less confidence by various surgeons and have been mentioned in my former article) are the use of benzoic acid and the benzoate of sodium, prefera- bly the latter on account of its less irritating effect upon the stomach. The salicylate of sodium and salicylic acid, and even salicin, any or all of these in rather free doses, are believed to moderate the putre- factive degeneration which occurs in some conditions of vesical catarrh, notably in an atonied bladder with a phosphatic calculus. Salol up to fifteen-grain doses three times a day sometimes has a very pronounced power in sweetening the contents of the bladder, while in other in- stances it is entirely useless. This drug has the disadvantage that it sometimes interferes seriously with digestion, and even in doses smaller than fifteen grains (possibly even in a five-grain dose) will occasionally produce depressing symp- toms, and the olive-green smoky color associated with carbolic-acid poisoning will appear in the urine. If forty-five grains a day does not produce the effect desired, as evidenced by examining the urinary excre- tion, no greater amount will do it. Of course, if the stomach is upset and the green color appears in the urine, this drug is inappropriate and should be discontinued. Boric acid has of late years been highly extolled in doses as high as fifteen grains three times a day; this also sometimes upsets the stom- ach, and I think that if ten-grain doses will not clear the urine no greater amount will do so. The biborate of sodium, ordinary powdered borax, up to a one-drachm dose, in milk, three times a day, will sometimes do more than any of the drugs enumerated above. I have found occasionally that a com- bination of some of the foregoing medicines has been effective where no one drug alone has seemed to answer as well; as, for instance, a cap- sule of four or five grains each of boric acid and the benzoate of sodium, or of borax and the benzoate of sodium. The latter capsules are a little the easier to digest, but I have heard patients complain that they get moist very readily when carried about in a box. Saccharine, in five-grain doses three times a day, a remedy introduced by Dr. A. H. Smith of New York, seems to possess a sweetening influ- ence in some cases; and the oil of wintergreen, which may be placed in ten-minim capsules, giving ten or twenty minims at a dose three times a dajT, also possesses a moderate power in the sterilizing effect which it is the object of all these medicines to produce upon the con- tents of the bladder. These internal medicines, however, are very uncertain agents in sterilizing the bladder contents, and reliance must more often be placed in direct local means of disinfection than in this roundabout method. The washing of the bladder and urethra at the time of operation with dilute peroxide of hydrogen; with strong boric-acid solution; with bichloride of mercury, from 1-30,000 up to 1-3000—all of these means find acceptance in good quarters and have considerable value, more or less positive, according to the activity of the agent employed.