594 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. should have the benefit of the doubt by an exploratory operation. Opening the dura, if it has not already been perforated, will prove whether a subdural abscess is present or impending, or not. Mr. Barker, I think, is quite right in proposing that in such cases the trephine should be used over the lower anterior part of what he has well called the “dangerous area.” This is a circle with a one-and-a- quarter inch radius, with its centre an inch and a quarter behind and the same distance above the middle of the external meatus. After ex- posing the dura and opening it, the state of the serous surfaces will determine whether any further steps should be taken or not. If menin- gitis of the more plastic form he present, Mr. Barker recommends that several circles of bone should be removed in order to cleanse and drain the surface of the brain thoroughly. But in those cases in which there are definite localizing symptoms, the spot indicated by these symptoms should he reached by puncture. The most remarkable illustration of this is in an admirable case reported by Mr. Barker,1 in which he evacuated an ounce of odorless pus from the fissure of Sylvius, next to the island of Reil, with the happiest result. The cavity of the abscess may be irrigated, and drained or not, according to the conditions found. (3) Extra-Dural Abscess.— In these cases the abscess almost always arises as a result of caries of the petrous hone after disease of the ear. Here the question of diagnosis, especially the differential diagnosis from subdural abscess and thrombosis of the lateral sinus, is a mat- ter of great difficulty. The temperature, however, will usually dis- tinguish extra-dural from cerebral or cerebellar abscess, as in the former it rises to from 102° to 104° F. The pain is usually fixed above and behind the ear, with marked tenderness on percussion and pressure in the same region. Not uncommonly also there is oedema of the scalp. There may be sometimes choked disc and symptoms of cerebral pressure if the abscess reaches any considerable size. Many years since2 I re- ported a remarkable case in which the entire petrous bone became necrotic and was removed. The carotid must have been obliterated. All the special senses except touch were destroyed, and the child was reduced to an idiotic condition. (Fig. 1687.) Treatment.— The mastoid will probably already have been opened, but if not, this should he done immediately. If there is a fistula from rupture of the abscess through the bone, this will lead to the abscess. Trephining should he done at the same point as already indicated, and the dura mater should be laid hare, care being taken, of course, not to wound the lateral sinus. If this should be involved, it should be treated as pointed out below. The abscess cavity having been reached, should be irrigated with an antiseptic solution and curetted, any necrosed or carious hone should be removed, and free drainage should he provided. Birclier3 relates a remarkable case in which he chiselled away all the necrotic petrous bone except the carotid canal, and saved his patient. Hoffmann4 gives a table of 102 fatal cases in Fig. 1687. Necrosis of Petrous Bone. 1 British Medical Journal, 1888, vol. i.. p. 771. 2 Philadelphia Med. Times, June 15, 1871. 3 Centralb]. fur Chirurgie, 1893, S. 482. 4 Deutsche Zeitschr. fur Chirurgie, Bd. xxviii., S. 484.