833 MALIGNANT DEGENERATION OF BENIGN TUMORS. tion has been given by Powers,1 from whom the following statistics are taken. In the literature of this country but two cases could be found in which an accurate histological diagnosis was made, although several have been reported in which the diagnosis of tuberculosis rested upon the history and gross appearances alone. From the study of all avail- able literature only 35 cases have been collected, of which 34 ivere in women. The majority occurred during the years of active child-bear- ing and lactation. The relative frequency of the disease, until more data are available, is impossible to estimate, although it is safe to say that it is compara- tively rare. Bull, of New York, among 185 cases of tumor of the breast, in all of which the growths were examined histologically, found but one of tuberculosis. At the Massachusetts General Hospital no cases have been recorded. Pathology.—This disease usually manifests itself in the form of cold abscesses and chronic fistulie. The latter may involve the breast or the axilla. There may be a single large diffuse swelling of the breast, or several small fluctuant areas. The fistulie present the usual gross ap- pearances of tuberculous tracks. In another form one or more hard nodules may be found in the breast, which on section present the usual appearances of tubercles in different stages of caseation. The axillary glands may be involved, with or without the formation of tubercular abscesses, or they may not be affected at all. Disseminated tubercles may be found in the tissues around the breast. The diagnosis of tuberculosis can be confirmed only by bacteriological demonstration. A family history of tuberculosis, with evidence of the disease in the lungs or elsewhere in association with the local signs in the breast, though obviously very suggestive, is not sufficient proof of the identity of the disease, unless confirmed by a positive histological and bacteriological examination. Prognosis. —Presumably the general prognosis will depend on the existence of other tubercular foci, and on the extent to which the glands are involved, as well as on the constitutional condition of the individual. Very few of the cases reported have been followed up. Powers2 traced two cases after radical operation; both patients died of phthisis, one one year, and the other four years, after the operation. Treatment.—After the diagnosis has been made the only treatment to be considered is thorough excision of the disease both in the breast and in the axilla. Mammary tuberculosis is regarded as a particularly dangerous source of general tubercular infection. Malignant Degeneration of Benign Tumors. Gross3 recommends extirpation of benign tumors on account of their tendency to become malignant, and because tumors of the breast are always a source of anxiety. In one of my cases of diffused fibroma, Dr. Whitney found a spot of carcinoma. Dr. Cabot refers to a similar case. The question of malignancy in connection with benign tumors 1 Annals of Surgery, 1894, Vol. xx., p. 159. 2 Loc. cit. 3 Fibroma of Female Breast, Based upon the Study of One Hundred Cases. Med. and Surg. Rep., 1887. VOL. VII.—53