ANOMALIES OF THB TESTICLE. 993 who at the age of four had had some trouble necessitating the use of a catheter. At the age of seven there was some enlargement noticed of the left testicle. A week before applying for treatment he had been kicked in the testicle by a horse. An abscess had formed, and was in- cised, leaving a sinus. The testicle was then removed. The epididymis and part of the testicle were pushed up, and below was found a cyst containing hair, sebaceous matter, and a piece of bone (alveolar process), bearing one tooth. Chondroma of the Testis.—The pathology of cartilaginous tumors of the testicle is one of the most unsettled of the questions relating to the growths affecting this organ. It is perfectly well known that some cartilaginous tumors present almost or quite nothing of a malignant character, either in their gross or microscopical characters or in their manner of growth and clinical course. On the other hand, cartilage plays so prominent a part in growths which are malignant in every sense of the term, and which resemble so much the chondro-sarcomas affecting the lachrymal, submaxillary, and parotid glands, that there is good reason for classifying them as malignant rather than as benign growths. If a surgeon inclines to the view of the benign character of these tumors, he is apt to be unpleasantly surprised by their pursuing a malignant course. If they are accepted as all being malignant or sar- comatous in nature, then one must admit that sarcomatous affections of this organ are often far more benign than are usually supposed. The possibility of a chondroma being a simple, benign, cartilaginous growth in an early stage, and then changing to a malignant one, by tak- ing on or undergoing sarcomatous change, also suggests itself. Mr. Jacobson evidently considers this possible when he says that clinically it is extremely doubtful whether these apparently simple enchondromata of the testis may not at any time become sarcomatous; still, he does recognize a simple chondroma, and describes it under the head of pure uncombined enchondroma, including under this name those growths in which cartilage is the predominant, or the only, morbid tissue present. Mr. Eve also apparently does not believe that cartilage is an indication of malignancy. He has found it present in 12 out of 16 cases of what he terms cystic fibromata, and in 11 out of 16 cases of cystic sarcomata. Mr. Butlin 1 makes the following plea in regard to chondromatous tumors: “ In connection with the frequent combination of cartilage with spindle-celled tumors, let me try to rescue a group of tumors which I believe to be quite innocent from an opprobrium which most unjustly rests upon them. I mean the cartilaginous tumors of the testis.” Such a strong statement from so able an authority demands careful consideration. To me it means that tumors, the bulk of which is com- posed of cartilage, pursue clinically a comparatively benign course, but it fails to convince me that they are not in their true nature sarcomas of a mild type. Mr. J. Bland Sutton speaks, however, in no uncertain tones in refer- ence to this question. In his recent valuable work on tumors he abso- lutely ignores the name chondroma as applied to testicular growths, and regards them as being simply chondrifying varieties of sarcoma. Kocher " likewise takes the same view, as he says in reference to prog- nosis that we must class testicular chondromata as malignant tumors 1 Sarcoma and Carcinoma, p. 25. 2 Diseases of the Male Genital Organs, p. 502. VOL. VII.—63