694 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. I Spalding and others treat vitreous opacities by hypodermic injections of pilocarpine, using gr. ^ once a day for two weeks, unless the heart is weakened. The dose may be increased to gr. jf, but usually gr. is sufficient. It is not necessary to produce the physiological effects. De Schweinitz advises the fluid extract of jaborandi in doses of ten drops three times a day. He also uses potassium iodide, and thinks eserine particularly valuable, especially in cases of hemorrhagic origin that are prone to become glaucomatous. For membranous opacities in the vitreous that can be seen and located by the ophthalmoscope, C. S. Bull advises division of the obstructions. The eye is cocainized, and a double- edged needle or Graefe knife is plunged into the vitreous, a little in front of the equator and about the lower edge of the internal or exter- nal rectus muscle, and the bands are divided. But little reaction follows, and the eye is kept closed for only two or three days. Bull reports marked improvement of vision in some cases. Choroiditis.—There are four distinct layers in the choroid proper. Choroiditis may exist some time before it is recognized, because not until the pigment layer of the retina has become involved can the changes be seen, and therefore the retina is inflamed when there is choroiditis and the condition is really choroido-retinitis. Inflammation of the choroid generally exists in spots (disseminated), or it may extend over the entire coat (serous and purulent). Berry distinguishes the types of choroidi- tis as follows: (1) disseminated choroiditis, atrophic and exudative; (2) senile central choroiditis; (3) syphilitic choroiditis; (4) sclero- choroiditis, anterior and posterior, and (5) purulent choroiditis, trau- matic, embolic, and metastatic. The disseminated form is the most common, and first appears as yel- low or reddish spots, more or less round in shape. These subsequently become whiter and are surrounded by a border of pigment. The white patch is the sclera, which is exposed by the degeneration of the super- imposed retina and choroid. The patches are seen first in the equator, and may spread and ultimately involve the macula, causing at first metamorpliopsia and micropsia, and finally scotoma. Disseminated choroiditis is usually caused by syphilis, and is uncommon in children. Senile central choroiditis is seen in old persons as an irregularly shaped patch of lighter color than the surrounding part, and occupying the macular region. It causes metamorpliopsia and scotoma, thereby diminishing vision, but rarely causes blindness. No treatment does good. Syphilitic choroiditis is a common occurrence among the late sec- ondary and early tertiary lesions of syphilis, and is most frequent among elderly persons. There are vitreous opacities and hyperaemia of the disk, and vision may or may not be reduced. Perfect recovery may take place, or there may be permanent impairment of vision due to opacities and scotomata. Mercury, preferably by inunction, is the best remedy, and Darier’s subconjunctival injections of the solution of bichloride of mercury (1 in 1000) may be tried, or the hypodermic in- jection of cyanide of mercury as advocated by Chibret. Sclero-choroiditis occurs anteriorly and posteriorly when there is weakening of the sclera. The treatment is unsatisfactory. Purulent choroiditis maybe confined to the choroid, or may involve