ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 558 middle of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It is not always easy to find the spinal accessory, but it should be remembered, that it runs diagonally from the inner and upper angle to the outer and lower angle of a par- allelogram formed by two horizontal lines drawn, one from the angle of the jaw, the other parallel to the first, from the border of the thy- roid cartilage. These lines with the anterior and posterior borders of the sterno-mastoid form a parallelogram. The nerve enters the muscle about two inches below the mastoid. Ligation of the Nerve.—Mayo Collier 1 applied a tight wire ligature to the spinal accessory, with permanent relief from the spasmodic move- ments; but it is difficult to see that this method could he as safe as neurectomy. Neurectasy, or Nerve-Stretching.—The spinal accessory may be reached by an anterior incision downward from the lobe of the ear, by which the digastric and stylo-liyoid muscles will be exposed; the nerve may be hooked up and stretched between these and the sterno-mastoid, but it should be remembered that strong traction must necessarily influence the medulla. The nerve may also be reached at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The results of this operation are usually unsatisfactory, and neurec- tomy is preferable. Resection of the Posterior Cervical Nerves.—These nerves may be reached by a three-inch incision parallel to, and an inch outside of, the spinous processes, cutting through the trapezius, the edge of the splenius, and the complexus. When the nerves are reached, all the fibres should be excised for at least a third of an inch. The suboccipi- tal is difficult of access. The resultant muscular paralysis is not consid- erable, hut wasting must necessarily occur. Keen2 made his incision transversely, three inches long diagonally across from the spine to a half inch below the lobe of the ear, dividing the trapezius and the complexus, but avoiding the great occipital nerve. The posterior division of the second cervical was first exsected, then the suboccipital. The external border of the posterior division of the third was exposed below the great occipital, and excised. By this means the nerves supplying the chief external rotators of the head, that is, the splenius, the rectus capitis major, and the obliquus inferior, were cut off. An electric forehead-light will greatly facilitate the speed of the operation. Congenital Malformations of the Hip. The condition commonly known as congenital dislocation is much better described as a malformation of the acetabulum, or femoral head and neck, or both. Many variations of malformation are met with, most of which are due to the misshapen head and neck of the femur. These cases are accompanied by more or less sliding motion at the hip, according to the degree of deformity in the acetabulum, and the pa- tients have a waddling gait to a greater or less extent. In a number of cases heredity is easily traceable. Not infrequently a history of 1 Lancet, June 21, 1890. 2 Annals of Surgery, Jan., 1891.