CJESAREAN OPERATIONS AND SYMPHYSEOTOMY. 1014 were with one exception, which was in the United States in 1889, con- fined to Italy, until February 4, 1892, when the results in Naples had so highly recommended this method of delivery that it was again intro- duced into Paris by Prof. Adolphe Pinard. With 1886 commenced a new era in symphyseotomy in Italy, as is shown by a marvellously low rate of death, for both women and chil- dren, amounting to a loss of 2 out of 50 of the former, and 6 out of 50 of the latter. The two women lost were after very long labors, one of them of four days; one prematurely born child died; one died from prolapsed cord; a third, born asphyxiated, lived twelve hours; a fourth lived one day; and the two others were stillborn, one after a labor of 84 hours. The success attained in Italy is largely due to the care and experience of Profs. Morisani and Novi, of Naples, who have now been operating for twenty-nine years, and American operators have shown their wisdom by following very generally what may properly be called the Italian method, since although not original in Italy, it was im- proved and perfected by Prof. Ottavio Morisani. The instruments required for the sub-osseous method of division, in which the symphysis is divided from within outward and from below upward, are a scalpel, a strong, probe-pointed, sickle-shaped bistoury, some haemostatic forceps, a needle-holder and needles, a metallic cathe- ter, ligature silk, gauze, cotton, and a pelvic bandage. After these have been sterilized, the woman to be delivered should be placed upon her back with her knees drawn up and separated; the mons veneris and labia majora are shaved, and the suprapubic region, vulva, peri- neum, and vulvo-vaginal canal are disinfected. The operator should then examine the depth, thickness, and direction of the symphysis, and should search out the fossa in its superior edge which marks the point of union of the two pubic bones, then examining their inferior margin and their anterior and posterior faces. It should be borne in mind that the pubic junction is in some cases as deep as three inches, and that it may be found illineal, and in rare instances, ossified. The saw is a dangerous instrument to use, as it is difficult to sterilize, and death from sepsis has followed its employment; anew instrument may be provided in a case where anchylosis is at all probable. The Italian Operation as now Performed.—The position of the op- erator may be between the legs of the patient, or at her right side, as he may prefer. Prof. Morisani stands between the extremities and operates through a very small incision, an inch or a little more, having very small hands. The female catheter is introduced and given into the hand of an assis- tant, that he may depress the urethra from the pubic arch, and at the same time carry it to the right side, to save it from injury. A longitudi- nal incision is then made through the skin and fat above the symphysis, about an inch and a half by two inches in length, ending about three- quarters of an inch above the pubis, and passing in a line down to the insertion of the recti muscles. The length of the incision required will depend much upon the thickness of fat to be cut through. Detaching for a short space the recti muscles from their attachments to the two pubic bones, the left index finger is introduced into the opening and made to separate the retro-pubic tissues. Then the palmar face of the finger is applied directly to the posterior surface of the symphysis, and