(189) AMPUTATIONS. BY JOHN ASHHURST, Jr., M.D., BARTON PROFESSOR OF SURGERY AND PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL, ETC. Operation and Dressing of the Stump. Since tlie appearance of the Article on Amputations in the first volume of this work, I have, in common with other surgeons, adopted what is known as the “antiseptic method,” in a simplified form, in the dressing of stumps, and during the last seven years have-employed this method in all the amputations which I have had occasion to perform, as well as in other operations. I have not used the antiseptic spray, and indeed it is now, I believe, universally abandoned, and I have not for several years used antiseptic irrigations during the progress of the operation, believing them to be quite unnecessary, and not unattended with danger from the risk of increasing the shock by chilling the patient's surface, since even warm solutions by evaporation reduce the bodily temperature. Indeed, I attribute much importance to the maintenance of heat during the operation, and in cases, as of multiple amputation, in which there is likely to be much depression, I have hot cans or hot-water hags placed on the operating table in proximity to the patient’s trunk, and am confident that I have saved lives by the adoption of this precaution. For the same reason (the fear of chilling the patient) I object to the use of ether in the preliminary cleansing of the part on which the opera- tion is to he performed; it is quite sufficient to have it carefully shaved, rubbed with oil of turpentine, and thoroughly scrubbed with hot soap- suds, and finally well washed with a hot 1-2000 solution of corrosive sublimate. The operation is then proceeded with, and no further washing or irrigation is necessary until the vessels have been tied and the surgeon is ready to close the wound. In this view I am sustained by the recent utterances of Sir Joseph Lister himself, who declares that no fear need be entertained of germs that may be in the air, and that those only are deleterious which are on the surface of the patient’s body, or which may be introduced by the surgeon’s hands or instru- ments. The inventor of the antiseptic method has latterly returned to his first love, and relies for the cleansing both of the patient’s body and of the operator’s hands upon a five-per-cent. (1-20) solution of car- bolic acid, and declares that by its employment it is sometimes possible even to dispense with soap and water; but, for my own part, I prefer the sublimate to the carbolic solution, except for use with the instru-