871 SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. along the linea alba above tlie umbilicus. The acquired form may oc- cur at any point, and results from an accidental or surgical wound of the muscles and fasciae, and occasionally from pregnancy. It is quite frequently met with in the wound of incision for laparotomy. Rarer Forms of Hernia.—Diaphragmatic hernia is usually due to a wound or rupture of the diaphragm. It may result from a congenital defect in this muscle. It generally occurs on the left side, on account of the protection afforded by the liver on the right side. Gluteal hernia is extremely rare. The escape of the viscus is through the sciatic notch, and it may occur above or below the pyriformis muscle. Obturator hernia takes place through the thyroid (obturator) fora- men, usually into the upper portion of the canal which gives exit to the obturator vessels and nerves. It is more common in women than in men. Lumbar hernia occurs in the region situated between the twelfth rib and the crest of the ilium. Hernia into the vagina occurs as a rule with partial or complete pro- lapse of the uterus, or after loss of substance allowing escape of the intestine. Perineal hernia descends to one side of the median raphe of the peri- neum, between the bladder and the rectum in the male—between the rectum and the vagina in the female—travelling along the inner slope of the levator ani muscle. It is extremely rare, but has been known to follow the operation of lithotomy. Pudendal hernia, in which the bowel passes down between the ramus of the ischium and the vagina, forming a tumor in the labium, and scicro-rectal hernia, which is described as having occurred from failure of the junction by ossification of the separate bones composing the sac- rum, are rarely met with. There is also at times a hernia of the ovary into the canal of Nuck, and there are two instances on record in which a hernia of the Fallopian tube alone existed in this canal. One of these cases occurred in my own practice, and the hernia, having become strangulated, caused the death of the woman by infectious peritonitis, the infection spreading through the disintegrating sac into the peritoneal cavity. The bladder has also been known to protrude into the inguinal canal and through the ex- ternal ring, and I have witnessed two cases in which the bladder was wounded in an operation for supposed intestinal hernia of the oblique inguinal variety. Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Hernia. Symptoms and Diagnosis of Inguinal Hernia.—When gradually acquired, the presence of a small swelling or tumor near the centre of Poupart’s ligament, or a little to the inner side of this point, is usually the first symptom of inguinal hernia. In a certain proportion of cases, the appearance of the swelling has been preceded by a feeling of weak- ness or uneasiness referred to this region, which only disappeared when the recumbent posture was assumed, or when strong upward pressure was made by the hand.