212 TUMORS. Summing up their results in percentages, the malignant epithelial growths form, according to Williams, 55 per cent.; according to Gurlt, 67 per cent, of all tumors, while sarcoma forms only 9.4 per cent, ac- cording to Williams, and 5.4 per cent, according to Gurlt. Among the benign tumors, the solid growths form 25 per cent. (Williams), or 19 per cent. (Gurlt) of all neoplasms, and the cysts comprise 11 per cent. (Williams) and 8 per cent. (Gurlt). Etiology. It should be borne in mind that the general term “tumor,” even under all the limitations of modern pathology, includes many very dif- ferent pathological entities, some being foetal errors of structure almost belonging in the class of monsters, while others resemble closely the locally infectious diseases. The stud}T of tumors in the lower animals and in vegetables gives us some vague hints in the direction of etiology. Animals have most of the neoplasms that are found in man, but they have others which are undoubtedly parasitic in origin. In the vegetable kingdom we find most tumors originating from erratic bud development (Williams), a condition exactly parallel to that assumed to exist in Cohnheim’s theory of misplaced foetal fragments, and a large class which are due to para- sites, or, more properly speaking, to the injection of irritating fluids around the eggs of parasitic insects. Cohnheim's theory has gained almost universal acceptance, the various objections to it having been largely overcome, and although it is probably incapable of direct proof, still some recent discoveries in the structures of cells afford a partial demonstration. Some would include in tumors the infective granulomata, such as tuberculous masses and syphilitic gummata, but it appears more wise to exclude such simple inflammatory masses with a definite and well-known cau- sation. Excluding these then, we have on the one hand the dermoid cysts, which are unquestioned instances of foetal inclusion, closely allied to the monsters, and on the other hand the malignant tumors, of un- certain origin but least likely to be due to dormant germs of foetal tissues, while between these two classes lie the benign tumors, which seem as if they might be due to some germ particles of foetal tissues, and yet are not clearly foetal inclusions. The etiology of these different groups is probably as different as their pathological and clinical fea- tures, and between the various types are many steps and gradations. Cohnheim founded his hypothesis on the analogy of the dermoid cysts, assuming that similar deposits of foetal tissues, very minute, perhaps consisting of only one or two cells, might exist in many places in the body where they would lie dormant, preserving their foetal characteristics undeveloped until some irritation should cause them to grow, and that by thus growing out of place with the full reproduc- tive power of foetal cells they would produce tumors. Roux, while making some experiments in which he destroyed one-half of the frog’s embryo at a very early period, found that the destroyed portion was sometimes reproduced or revivified by the remaining cells, and in these portions he frequently discovered cells which belonged to the earliest