173 GANGRENOUS DISEASES. Gangrenous Diseases. Bed-Sores.—But little can be added to what has been said in tbe article on Gangrene in Yol. I. The habit of rubbing the back, and es- pecially the parts that are excessively pressed on, has become such an established usage in nursing, that the danger of bed sores forming is less than it was formerly. Local applications of acidulated water, to neutralize the alkaline secretions, possess a definite power. The acetate of aluminum is a favorite drug for this purpose, and even after the skin has broken and pus has formed, it is relied upon by Dr. Senn as the safest and most reliable antiseptic in these cases. ' Noma.—The cause of this disease is regarded by Lingard as a spe- cial bacillus of unusually large proportions, which makes its way through the mucous membranes. This gives opportunity for the entrance of the cocci of suppuration, and also of the saprophytes of putrefaction. Symmetrical Gangrene.—To what has already been said, I may add that Morven’s disease is sometimes a cause of this form of gan- grene. Much obscurity still hangs over the etiology of this affection. Morven refers its seat to the spinal cord, but also admits that it may be one of the manifestations of peripheral neuritis. It appears at first on one side, but is apt to become symmetrical, attacking the fingers and toes, producing felons in the first stage and necrosis afterward. The condition is a chronic one. Diphtheritic Gangrene.—Of this form we may say that the de- struction of tissue is not deep. It may be regarded as due simply to the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus. No special treatment other than what is called for in the treatment of diphtheria has thus far been brought out. Perhaps the peroxide of hydrogen has the greatest power in arresting this form of gangrene. • Ergotism.—Of this disease little need be said. Like hospital gan- grene and scurvy, it will probably, in future, only be known in history. It has been suggested that a persistent spasm of the arterioles in ergot- ism is the cause of such a diminished circulation as to produce gan- grene. Embolic Gangrene.—Among the causes of embolism may be the formation of a thrombus from the rupture of the intima of an artery by violence. Thus a rough spot gives an opportunity for the formation of a fibrinous mass that may break away and furnish the plug. Besides careful attention to the maintenance of the temperature of the part af- fected, and favoring the circulation, as already recommended, little is to be done. The return circulation is often established, but if gangrene of the extremity occur, amputation should be practised, and we should not delay for the formation of the red line. If we can discover pulsa- tion of the main artery in the limb, the amputation should be at the point at which such pulsation is detected.