853 PERITONITIS. rarely rises above 102° F., though occasionally, after reaction has followed perforation, a distinct rise is observed to 104° F. or higher. In plastic peritonitis the temperature remains between normal and 101°, unless suppuration occurs, when a rigor and subsequent elevation of temperature are seen in many cases. As an element in diagnosis temperature assumes a negative position. Much has been written of the physiognomy of patients with peritonitis. The facial expression gives at once the impression of a serious illness. It is pinched, drawn, and anxious. The nose is more pointed, and the lines are lengthened, particularly at the sides of the face. The extremities are cold and cy- anotic, and are often covered by a clammy perspiration; the legs are often, although not invariably, flexed. The tongue shows, as a rule, no especial changes in peritonitis. Physical examination reveals, in addition to the symptoms already mentioned, several others of importance. In plastic peritonitis there is usually localized tenderness, associated with dullness over the affected area. Palpation shows a definable tumor. Auscultation—a valuable adjunct—gives evidences of gurgling and of peristaltic action in the intestine. In septic peritonitis there is often no part of the abdomen dull, unless the exudation is abundant. There is no peristaltic action. The intestinal coats are paralyzed. The most important physical sign of peritonitis is, beyond doubt, the peculiar resistance given to the palpating hand by the contracting abdominal muscles. It has been variously described—like a deal board under the skin expresses it most closely. To my mind, when this peculiar resistance is not present the diagnosis of peritonitis may be regarded with suspicion. Consti- pation is the common condition in peritonitis, though diarrhoea may rarely be present in the suppurative variety. Diagnosis of Peritonitis.—There are many conditions which must be excluded before a diagnosis of peritonitis can be established. Sev- eral have already been mentioned. Typhoid fever, intestinal intoxica- tion, and ptomaine poisoning are to be added. A critical study and proper estimation of the value of the different symptoms will usually prevent error in diagnosis. Tubercular peritonitis is properly considered in connection with dropsies and can receive no extended notice here. Prognosis of Peritonitis.—The prognosis of septic peritonitis is ex- ceedingly grave. Many writers are firmly of the conviction that all who suffer from it die under all forms of treatment, surgipal or med- ical, but I myself believe that in many instances, with an early lap- arotomy, proper irrigation, and drainage, recovery may confidently be expected, although it is extremely difficult or impossible to say that any particular case is likely to terminate favorably. In plastic peri- tonitis, however, the prognosis is much more promising. If the in- flammation runs a mild course, the prognosis, under purely expectant treatment, is good. When it assumes a graver type, becoming suppura- tive, surgical intervention has been able to save a very large percent- age of cases. Organic intestinal obstruction is often a dangerous complication. Treatment of Peritonitis.—In theory, the treatment of peritonitis