WOUND-TREATMENT. 57 affects the heavier threads. Halstead winds silk on glass spools, using about two metres for each. The latter are of such size that eight of them will fill an ordinary glass test-tube, and this plugged with cotton is placed in a steam sterilizer. When sterilization is finished, the spools are poured from the test-tube into a dish containing a solution of car- bolic acid, 1-30. Some surgeons prefer to use the silk in a dry state, after it has been sterilized by steam, claiming that antiseptics will irri- tate the tissues. Silk that has been sterilized by boiling must be pre- served in some antiseptic fluid, or must otherwise be again boiled before being used. Therein lies an advantage of sterilization by steam, as silk once sterile can be preserved in that state for an indefinite period by the method of Halstead, just described. Dressings.—In no other particular has the aseptic principle exer- cised so beneficial an influence as in the matter of dressings. If materials impregnated with antiseptics have not yet been entirely dis- carded by all surgeons, it appears that this will soon occur. It is true that we strive to-day to accomplish just what Lister had in mind when he described his carbolized gauze dressing, to exclude by means of our aseptic appliances the causes of wound-infection, but we take greater precautions now to obtain this result during other surgical manipula- tions before the dressings are applied, and not by saturating the latter with antiseptic fluids and by sealing wounds hermetically with imper- meable rubber tissues, as was the custom in the beginning of the anti- septic era. On the contrary, we have learned to regard evaporation of the discharges in the dressings as a very important factor in wound treat- ment. Many, indeed, have been the materials and the antiseptic sub- stances which have been recommended to the profession at various times since Lister’s first publications, for the preparation of antiseptic dressings. To-day we consider the following sufficient for all the needs of the surgeon: I. Dry sterilized gauze (cheese-cloth, tarlatan). II. Iodoform gauze. III. Moist antiseptic dressings. Lister was one of the first to call attention to the merits of gauze as a material for dressings, and, although various attempts have been made to supplant it by other cheaper materials, it seems to possess these merits to such a degree that surgeons in general have never looked on any of the others with favor. It is true that its absorbent qualities are not as great as those of the different varieties of cotton and of wood-wool, but they are apparently greater than those of other materials, such as turf-moss, jute, and sawdust, which are also in demand as substitutes. The quality of being able to readily absorb wound-secretions has been recognized as a most important one in a good material for surgical dressings, and gauze possesses this quality in a marked degree. It, furthermore, allows evaporation of the discharges which it has ab- sorbed, more readily than most other materials. In one essential point, however, it surpasses all the others: it is especially well adapted to the tamponing of wounds, a form of dressing extensively used at the pres- ent day. It can scarcely be of more than passing interest to mention the methods in use during the pas’t ten or fifteen years for the preparation