982 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Reclus,1 as late as 1893, has advocated it very strongly. He claims that incontestable cases of eunuchism have resulted from operation on the cord, and cites three cases of gangrene, one in his own hands, that have occurred from it. He also holds that it is less radical than sup- posed, and that it leaves the scrotum flaccid and pendulous. He gives a case of recurrence in which he afterward operated by excising the scrotum, the patient being well five months after the latter operation. Wickham, Championniere, and Segond are also champions of this proce- dure. Guyon resects both scrotum and veins. Reclus has resected the scrotum for varicocele during seven years with satisfaction. He has operated twenty-nine times, and in four cases seen afterward found that the patients remained well at thirty-five months, thirty months, twenty-two months, and nineteen months, respectively. The subcutaneous operation on the veins still has a stanch advocate in Dr. Keyes, of New York. Mr. Mitchell Banks2 ligates the veins in two places with catgut and divides them between the ligatures. Keyes,3 in 1886, advocated subcutaneous ligation of the veins with silk, using his modification of Reverdin’s needle. Notwithstanding the progress that the open mode of operating has made in the opinion of the profession since that date, he still4 advo- cates the subcutaneous method. He applies three ligatures, one rea- sonably high up on the cord, another close down to the testicle and globus major, and the third below the testicle at the globus minor. He employs strict antiseptic precautions and has never had an abscess, although there has sometimes been some oozing of sero-pus. In only three instances out of over a hundred or more cases has the silk worked out. Operation of Excision of the Veins.—The most generally accepted operation at present is antiseptic excision of the enlarged veins. It owes its introduction largely to Mr. Howse,5 Mr. Jacobson,6 and Mr. Bennett.7 The bowels having been previously emptied by a laxative, the parts, on the day previous to the operation, are carefully washed with soap and water, and shaved, and then cleansed with ether and bi- chloride solution, 1-2000, and wrapped up in gauze wet with the same. This is allowed to remain until the time of operation. One assistant draws the testicle of the affected side downward until the cord is tense. An incision an inch and a half long is made over the dilated veins; a very slight parting of the tissues exposes them, and while they are lifted up with forceps the operator recognizes the vas deferens by touch, and entrusts it to the care of the assistant, who grasps it with his disengaged left hand and thereby prevents any accident occurring to it. With two pairs of forceps, or with one pair and a knife, the evi- dently enlarged veins are isolated to the extent of the external incision. Mr. Jacobson, having seen gangrene follow in one case, advises that onty two-thirds of the veins should he isolated, and that the other third should he allowed to remain. Catgut ligatures are next placed around the separated veins, first below and then above, and the inter- 1 Gazette Hebdomadaire, 1893, p. 135. 2 Clinical Notes, 1884, p. 114. 3 Medical Record, Feb. 20 and Sept. 18, 1886. 4 Morrow’s System of Genito-Urinary Diseases, vol. i., p. 971. 1893. 5 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1887. 6 Iloimes’s System of Surgery, 3d edit., vol. iii., p. 571. 1 Lancet, Feb. 9, 1889, and March 7, 1891.