INJURIES OF THE HEAD. ( 561 ) VOL. VII.— 36 BY CHARLES B. NANCREDE, A.M., M.D., PROFESSOR OF SURGERY AND OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, EMERITUS PROFESSOR OF GENERAL AND ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY IN THE PHILADELPHIA POLYCLINIC, ETC. Treatment of Scalp Wounds. An insignificant scalp wound, if it become infected, may lead to peri- ostitis, purulent osteitis, osteophlebitis, and encephalitis; or, again, from the periosteum the infective process may, by continuity of tissue, through osteophlebitis, initiate thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses, with consequent pyaemia. While this is an uncommon, it is a possible, com- plication, and treatment should aim to prevent this as well as tetanus. The necessary precautions to this end, about to be detailed, are equally necessary prerequisites to trephining for disease or injury, and will not be repeated when dealing with those subjects. As scalp wounds often lead directly down to unsuspected and severe lesions of the skull and brain, no precautions should be viewed as being too troublesome. First drench the parts with carbolized water,1 cut with scissors or, better when possible, shave all hair from the edges2 and immediate neighborhood of the wound, and scrub the scalp with a nail-brush wet with dilute acetic acid one part, alcohol seven parts.3 This in turn should be removed with abundance of sterilized water and green soap containing 5 per cent, of hydro-naphtliol. Finally, thorough irrigation with mercuric chloride solution should precede the examination of the wound by the disinfected finger. If an}7 doubt exists as to bone injury, the scalp wound should be enlarged. A strictly aseptic or antiseptic dressing should finally be applied, and with this addition the advice given in my article in Vol. V. still holds good. As antisepsis would be hard to secure, the employment of the hair to coaptate scalp wounds recommended in that article should not be attempted. The modified commendation of sutures there given should be extended to the advice to employ them in all cases when requisite, when an aseptic condition of the wound can be secured. Of course, -here and elsewhere, the 1 Boiled water should he used for the solution, and when no antiseptic is obtainable is in- finitely better than unboiled water, being at least aseptic. - If operating for brain tumor or epilepsy the whole scalp should be shaved. 3 This serves to remove all greasy substances, at the same time acting as a germicide, but ether will do; if preparing for au intracranial operation for disease, after the preliminary shaving some surgeons employ a soft-soap poultice for a short time, followed by the applica- tion of an antiseptic dressing for twenty-four hours before operation ; this latter expedient should always be adopted in cases of epilepsy and brain tumor.