HERNIA. 884 be resected, there was an impaction of fsecal matter in the large intes- tine which I could ,not remove by most careful irrigation through the fistula above and by the long rectal tube below. Knowing that great strain would come upon the sutures, with possible rupture at the line of union and destruction of my patient, I performed the follow- ing operation: On December 2, 1892, the intestine above and below the opening was plugged with tight-fitting sponges, and the intervening por- tion and the wound and integument about the wound were thoroughly cleansed. I carried an incision through the skin parallel with the mar- gins of the opening and half an inch from its edge, making this ellipti- cal incision about three inches long and one and one-half inches wide at the widest portion. The dissection was carried through the fascia, fat, and muscles toward the line of adhesion made by the row of sutures in the original enterostomy, so that when this was reached and the peri- toneum opened the wound presented a bevelled edge, widest at the cutaneous surface. The coil of intestine from which the fistula opened and one coil adhe- rent to this were now brought through the wound, and iodoformized gauze was packed around the edges to prevent septic or foreign mat- ter from getting into the peritoneal cavity. Tape were tied around the intestine eight inches above and below the opening, the sponges were removed from the gut, and the cavity was washed out with the Thiersch solution. By careful trial it was seen that if the fistula were closed by a row of longitudinal sutures, the lumen of the gut would be only one-third of its original size. I therefore, with sharp, straight scissors, cut through healthy intestine on either side of the opening and removed three inches of the gut, dividing it at right angles to its axis; a triangular strip of mesentery was also excised, taking care to leave the mesentery overlapping the end of the gut by at least one-fourth of an inch, so as to secure the vascular supply of the part involved in the operation. The method of suture was identical with that just described, care being taken to put in the additional sutures at the mesenteric at- tachment. In returning the united bowel to the abdomen a mat of iodoformized gauze, five inches wide and about eight inches long, was passed under the coil of intestine until it rested upon the mesentery, one end of this mat being brought out through the wound. A similar piece was inserted on the opposite side until it touched the mesentery exactly opposite the first piece. Tufts of iodoform gauze were placed upon the bowel for two inches on either side of the line of sutures until the level of the abdominal incision was reached. On the fourth day the gauze was all removed, and the isolation of the sutured intes- tine was perfect. It was held by adhesions and walled off from the general peritoneal cavity, and was about three inches below the level of the incision in the abdomen. On the eighth day, after considerable tenesmus and straining, one or two sutures at the line of union gave way, and fluid ingested matter escaped. This small opening closed spontaneously in eight days, and the patient recovered. In reunion of the small intestine by the method just described, I have noticed that where a fsecal fistula has been established for some time (from ten days to six weeks), the intestine on the rectal side of the fistula is considerably smaller in diameter than the bowel above the opening. In one case of this character which also ended in recovery,