TREPHINING. 563 fourth of an inch from the margin of the opening with mouse-toothed forceps, a small opening is made with the knife, and the incision—which must include only about four-fifths of the circumference—is completed with blunt-pointed scissors; in this way the large veins of the pia mater will escape injury. After the dura mater has been reached, nothing but boiled water should be used for irrigation, because possibly danger- ous1 and certainly interfering with the localization of nerve centres by the faradic current. Vessels of any size, crossing the proposed line of incision of the dura mater, should be first secured by passing beneath them—through the dura—a curved needle armed with a fine catgut ligature. Wounded vessels of the pia mater must be secured by gently tying with fine catgut, the first half of the knot being drawn only tight enough to occlude the lumen of the vessel, as the walls are very frangible. When this plan fails, small wire serre-fines,2 to which fine silk threads are tied, may be left for forty-eight hours, or until they spontaneously separate. Gauze packing cannot be relied upon as a permanent measure for arresting serious bleeding from either the pia mater or the brain substance, although efficient for oozing from the small vessels of the latter; irrigation with hot water, or sponge pressure, will, however, usually suffice for this. A wounded sinus must be promptly compressed, ligated laterally, the opening plugged with a bunch of catgut, or the whole channel included between two ligatures placed on each side of the wound by means of a curved needle; antiseptic tamponnade is all that I have employed myself or seen employed, the plug being cautiously removed at the end of about forty-eight hours.3 When the operation has been completed the dura mater must be care- fully sutured with fine catgut, a piece of pericranium 4 being substituted for this membrane if it has been removed, or a piece of dentist’s heavy gold foil5 being slipped beneath the margins of the osseous opening so as to repress any tendency to brain protrusion. This last measure has been suggested in trephining for epilepsy to prevent the formation of adhesions between the scalp and the brain or its membranes. If thought best the bone fragments may be replaced, or the minced-up fragments may be strewn over the membranes when these are intact. Only large fragments, perforated and secured by catgut to the scalp flap, are permissible if large openings in the dura mater exist. Plates of decalcified bone, or celluloid,6 cut to fit the opening, but having a notch at one side for drainage, have been employed to fill up bony defects; but these measures are of questionable value, excepting where the opening is exceedingly large or peculiarly situated. The question of drainage here arises. Unquestionably when an ex- pert in brain work is operating for epilepsy or brain tumor, in most in- stances no drainage will be requisite, but for the average operator I consider the following rules to be the safest. I must here trench—as I have done in -my preceding remarks—upon the province occupied by the supplementary article of Dr. Keen, but it seems to be unavoidable. • 1 Some recent experiments seem to prove this. 2 Ordinary haemostatic forceps are too heavy. 3 See Park's cases, Med. News, Dec. 3 and 10, 1892, page 16. 4 Keen. 5 Bradford ; Park, Clinical Contributions to the Subject of Brain Surgery, reprint from Med. News, Dec. 3, 10. 1892, p. 20. 6 Von Eiselberg. Verb, der Deutsch. Gesell. fur Chirurg., XX. Congress, 1891.