OPERATIVE DETAILS. 935 to his assistants and nurses, because their dependence upon routine habit must he, and should he, even more crystallized than his own. Hence it is proper, in all operations upon this region involving a use of the knife, to scour the integument in the most scrupulous manner, to steril- ize the instruments, and to adopt and maintain all the requirements of aseptic surgery even down to their minutest details. If these pre- cautionary measures are carefully attended to, everything will have been done that possibly can be done to avert pernicious urinary fever with its attendant suppression and other disastrous sequences, and no further call need be made upon such uncertain adjuvants as were formerly more or less relied upon—pilocarpine, quinine, aconite, or any other internal remedy. In cases of weak heart I have no possible question of the value of the subcutaneous injection of one hundredth of a grain of atropine just before the anaesthetic is administered. This certainly moderates shock and sustains the heart. Also I prefer personally, in operating upon any case with damaged kidney, to rely upon chloroform rather than ether for the production of anaesthesia, believing, as I do. that if atropine and a little morphine are used, the heart is protected during the operation, and feeling confident that the kidney is spared much unnecessary work which it would have to do in the subsequent eli- mination of ether, were that substance employed. Diuretin, a drug which has been spoken of as of value in preventing urinary fever and secondary renal congestion, and which at one time I looked upon favorably (led to this conclusion by certain apparently convincing facts), I now have absolutely discarded, placing no reliance upon it whatever in the way of its power to forestall urinary fever. Operative Details. Lithotrity as an operation may as well be dropped once and for all; it is simply a part of the modern and better operation of litholapaxy, and is included in it. The operative manoeuvres for the effective per- formance of litholapaxy are still identically what they were when this masterly operation was introduced. Every operator has some little trick of his own which he learns in the manipulation of the instruments with which he is most familiar, and which he probably could not com- municate to another if he tried. I do not know how it is with other operators, but the broadening influence of time has relieved me of the necessity of relying upon my own or upon any other man’s lithotrite, and I generally have several with me, and employ one or the other, according to the particular indications furnished by the patient or the stone in each individual case. The fenestrated lithotrite, however, has each year gained more and more friends, and is now constantly preferred in India, where so much litholapaxy is performed, and in England on account of its superiority over the non-fenestrated instrument. The most important new device among the lithotrites is that of Chismore, of San Francisco (Fig. 1143), with which he has done all of his crushings, achieving a statistical success not equalled, as far as I know, by any one in this country or in England, and probably nowhere out of India—that is, his sixty-three consecutive cases have all been