DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 504 which have been made and the variety of conclusions which have been arrived at. Some recent experiments 1 upon the living subject, with and without liip-disease, have demonstrated that separation of the joint- surfaces may be produced by bearable and practicable amounts of traction. The conclusions which may be drawn seem to be the following: That traction of ten pounds in children before puberty as a rule produces lengthening of the leg in hip disease, and that this lengthening is due to separation of the joint surfaces; that the amount of this separation varies in different instances, being in general less in older children than in young ones, and also varying in individual cases under apparently the same conditions, perhaps on account of some anatomical peculiarity; that twenty pounds of traction, as a rule, produces more separation than ten pounds. It is probable that in the later cases of hip disease, where cicatrization of the capsular tissue may be supposed to have taken place, distraction is not as readily made. It cannot be supposed that the best results can be obtained by the application of inefficient traction. A sufficient amount of traction, constantly applied during the stage of muscular spasm, is needed. It is, of course, not the only therapeutic measure which is required; fixa- tion and protection are also needed at the various stages. If traction is not applied properly, or is applied at the wrong time, or is insufficient in extent, it is no more efficient than a drug injudiciously or wrongly used or administered at the wrong time. Judgment is required in the use of this measure as of any other, and a great deal of care and atten- tion to detail not only on the part of the surgeon, but on the part of the nurses and assistants, is necessary to insure the constant application of from eight to ten or fifteen pounds’ traction uninterruptedly for two or three or six months. It is owing to a defect in this respect that in many cases treatment by traction is ineffectual, and that the results obtained are not so satisfactory as desired. This leads to an unjust condemnation of the methods of traction-treatment by those who have tried this plan, and, having met with unsuccessful results, have blamed not their own mode of application, but the method in general; which is as irrational as if any one who should administer a drug in an insuf- cient dose should lay the failure to the drug, when it was properly due to its faulty administration. The thorough use of traction—that is, to the point of distraction— requires on the part of the surgeon not only a familiarity with the me- chanical details of apparatus, and the proper application, adaptation, and fitting of appliances suitable in each case, but the ability to arrange for such co-operation and assistance on the part of nurses or attendants as shall insure the continuance of the necessary amount of traction at all times. If, through the neglect of a nurse, a hip which needs con- tinued traction of ten to fifteen pounds for protection against blows from muscular spasm, is left during an acute stage for a time with a traction of only two pounds, the joint may be seriously damaged. Soc. de Chirurgie, 1886. t. xii., p. 31. Deutsch. Zeitschrift f. Chirurgie, 1873, Bd. iii., S. 256. Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, 1880, vol. ciii., p. 465; Ibid., August 30, 1888. Transactions of American Orthopaedic Association, vol. i., p. 193. 1 Bradford and Lovett, New York Med. Journal, Aug. 4, 1894.