323 SYPHILIS OF THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. the herpetic ulcer is indurated, the hardened tissues can be flattened between the fingers, while in chancre no amount of pressure can change the nodule. Treatment of Chancre.—Although indolence is characteristic of by far the greater number of cases of chancre, yet at times the ini- tial lesion of syphilis is so painful as to require special treatment with the view of allaying this symptom. Usually the pain is connected with some inflammatory condition, and in such cases local or general sedatives will relieve the symptoms. Occasionally, however, the trouble seems to be due to some lesion of the nerves in the immediate neighborhood of the chancre, and then exci- sion. when practicable, seems to be the only means of allaying the pain. Chancres of the clitoris, it is said, are peculiarly apt to be painful, a circumstance which seems not unlikely when we consider the very abundant nerve supply of this part. Possibly cocaine, externally or by injection, would give relief in painful chancres of this locality. Syphilis of the Circulatory System. Syphilis of the Heart.1—According to Jullien, syphilitic affections of the heart develop, on an average, about ten years after the com- mencement of the disease. In six cases, however, among those noted by this author, the affection occurred as early as the end of the first year, while in others it developed as late as the eighteenth year of the disease. Men are much more liable to the affection than women. Age does not seem to have any influence in determining this form of syphilis. The prognosis of syphilitic disease of the heart is grave. The affec- tion usually develops in a slow, continuous, and insidious manner. Occasionally, however, attacks of syncope occur, leading to a dangerous condition, and sometimes to a sudden fatal termination. This occur- rence is very frequent, having been observed in half the cases reported. At other times a slowly fatal process sets in, involving engorgement of the liver and lungs, with liydrothorax, ascites, etc. Death not unfre- quently occurs through invoUement of the brain. In some cases a favor- able result may occur with or without partial dilatation of the heart. In the treatment of syphilitic heart disease, digitalis and similar remedies are useless. Mercurial inunction, with the internal use of iodide of potassium, are indispensable. These remedies should be begun early and pushed vigorously; life or death may depend on the prompti- tude of treatment. A strict milk diet is recommended in syphilitic heart disease, because it lessens the gastro-intestinal troubles and increases diuresis, while indirectly, by its diminution of ascites and meteorism, it removes some of the provoking causes of dyspnoea and angina. The soothing effects of precordial blisters, while marked in other forms of heart disease, are not obtained in syphilitic heart affections.2 1 Reference may be made to an excellent monograph by Lang : Die Syphilis des Herzens, Wien, 1889, and to the papers of Janeway (The Medical Recorder, 1872), and of Loomis (quoted by Bumstead and Taylor). Mauriac also gives a number of references. 2 Zakharine. (Editorial article, Med. News., Phila., Oct., 1890, from Rev. Gen. de Chir. et de Therap., 20 Aout, 1890.)