SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 620 ’Brit. Med. Journal, 1887, vol. i., p. 864. 2 Lancet, 1891, vol. ii., p. 1159. Hence in all cases of compound fracture with depression, the profession is coming to recognize the importance of immediate elevation of the bone; and if the brain tissue has been lacerated, it is probably best to excise the injured portion. The severity of the disease is sometimes remarkable. Thus in one of Horsley's cases, after an old depressed fracture of the skull, the patient had 2870 convulsions in 13 days.1 And in Miles’s case,2 in which the patient bad been struck on the top of his bead by a lead sinker, weighing about a pound, he had as many as 3597 fits in 42 days, and as many as 219 in a single day. Yet both of these cases were cured by operation. If the epilepsy arises from trauma, the seat of injury probably is over well-known centres, motor or otherwise; but, on the other hand, it may lie over the so-called latent zones of the brain. In those cases in which the lesion lies over well-known centres, and the muscles involved in the epileptic fit correspond to those innervated by these centres, the natural inference is that the lesion and fit are related as cause and effect. But it must be strongly insisted on that the site of operation should be determined rather by the localizing symptoms than by the external scar, because the actual lesion may have been caused by a splinter of the bone or by injury of the brain by other means, at some distance from the seat of the injury and not directly under it. Moreover, excision of the scar itself, if one exists, has occasionally been followed by a cure, and in one unreported case of my own this seems to have been permanent. It would be right, therefore, as a pre- liminary minor operation, to first excise the scar. And also, if there be any other disease, such as necrosis of the tibia, this should be remedied first; in a case related by Briggs, the removal of necrosed bone was followed by a cure, which had persisted for five years when the case was reported. The injury may have been followed by splintering of the bone, by the formation of a clot, which is very apt to be followed by a cyst, by a brain scar, by adhesion between the brain and its membrane, or some- times by no apparent lesion. In the remarkable case of Mr. Miles just quoted there was no apparent lesion of the brain; and yet simple trephining had cured his patient three years and a quarter before the case was published. After opening the skull, the dura, in these cases, should always be incised. Should a scar exist in the dura, it must be removed. Should one exist in the brain, this must be removed down to the white sub- stance, and as much further as the scar goes. All of the damaged brain tissue must be removed. If any of the dura has been sacrificed, its place may be supplied by a piece of the pericranium, as described under technique. This is especially important in those cases in which the brain has been incised, in order that we may prevent a fungus cerebri. In other respects the treatment is that described in the section on tech- nique. Of course if the bone is diseased, or is irregular and would pro- duce irritation or pressure, it should not be replaced after removal. In those cases in which the lesion does not lie over well-known centres of motion or of special sense, but over latent zones, if excision of the scar does not effect a cure and there is distinct evidence of either