730 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. a dry antiseptic dressing without previously resorting to exploration with a probe, which will seldom give any valuable information and may cause sepsis. This primary antiseptic occlusion may lead to heal- ing by means of a moist blood clot within the wound, since gunshot wounds in this region are often, and perhaps usually, aseptic. Punctured wounds may be similarly managed unless there is reason to believe that the injury has been caused by a specially septic instru- ment. Then, of course, free incision and sterilization of the wound to its very bottom is demanded, but even under such circumstances it is often judicious to wait a few hours until preparations can be made for a thoroughly antiseptic operation. Wounds involving the nasal, tarsal, and auricular cartilages may often be accurately approximated without passing the sutures through the cartilaginous tissue, though there is no objection to carrying the needle through the cartilage if preferred. In wounds made by firearms at close range, particles of unburnt powder may become embedded in the skin, and if not removed will leave permanent blue stains similar to those produced by tattooing with car- bonaceous substances. A similar discoloration is often found in miners and others who have been injured by blows from pieces of coal. The powder or coal-dust thus carried into the tissues should be removed immediately after the receipt of the injury. This may be accomplished by thoroughly scrubbing the burnt or lacerated parts with soap and water by means of a nail-brush. Anaesthesia may be required for the proper execution of this important part of the treatment. Picking out the particles of carbon with forceps is scarcely thorough enough. If healing has occurred over the embedded carbon, the blue disfigure- ment is only remediable by the tedious removal of every minute parti- cle. Each blue point may he excised by a small circular punch, or croton oil may be pricked into the skin with a needle, and the pigment removed by the suppuration so induced. The minute white scars left by these methods are less noticeable than the tattoo marks. It has been proposed to attempt combustive destruction of the carbon by in- troducing a red hot galvano-caustic needle into the skin at the dis- colored spots. The chemical applications employed by dermatologists to remove tattoo stains intentionally produced, may in certain cases he valuable; but discolorations due to accidental wounds are probably too deep to he satisfactorily removed by such means. Cicatricial Deformities and Deformed Scars. Cicatrices which would be of no importance on hidden parts of the body must be avoided on the face. Abscesses may sometimes be opened from the mouth, and an external scar avoided. The disfiguring and often self-convicting cicatrices of syphilitic ulcers and of gummy tumors allowed to ulcerate, are readily prevented by early and large doses of mercury and potassium iodide. No such lesion should he per- mitted to indelibly mar the features because of the carelessness or ignorance of a surgeon who looks for syphilis only in the lowly. Tuberculous abscesses should be incised and curetted before the skin becomes thinned and a puckered scar probable. Spontaneous evacua-