806 INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. placed on the head of the tube. The extractor should he next intro- duced, and, with the finger on the head of the tube as a guide, the blades should he passed into the opening of the tube. By pressing the lever which separates the blades, the tube is grasped by them, and is withdrawn by depressing the handle upon the patient's chest. In passing the forceps into the opening in the intubation-tube, difficulty is sometimes experienced, hut if the finger is placed upon the head of the tube as a guide this should not occur. During the withdrawal the blades may slip, losing their hold upon the intubation-tube which may then pass into the pharynx and be swallowed. This accident may be prevented by following the tube by the finger as it is withdrawn from the larynx, when if it becomes detached from the extractor it can be hooked forward by the finger and removed. In the treatment of dyspnoea resulting from diphtheritic or mem- branous laryngitis, or from oedema or spasm of the glottis, intubation of the larynx has proved a valuable surgical procedure; cases of membranous or diphtheritic laryngitis, where obstruction comes on rapidly and is probably largely due to oedema of the mucous membrane, are in my judgment the most favorable for intubation. Statistics show that children under two years of age are better subjects for this operation than for tracheotomy. Intubation of the larynx seems to me also to be especially well suited for cases of dyspnoea due to oedema of the laryngeal mucous membrane from burns or scalds, from the swallowing of corrosive liquids, or from the inhalation of irritating gases, unless there is at the same time marked oedema of the epiglottis and fauces. Cases of diphtheria in which the dyspnoea is largely due to great swelling of the tonsils and fauces, with profuse deposit of membrane in these situations, as also those in which the dyspnoea comes on very slowly, pointing to a gradual deposit in the larynx of a well- organized membrane, are unfavorable cases for the operation of intu- bation. The operation usually relieves the urgent symptoms, is practi- cally free from danger, is a bloodless procedure, and the consent of the parents for its performance can usually be obtained without difficulty; the inspired air, too, enters the lungs warm and moist, and if it fails to relieve the patient it does not preclude a subsequent tracheotomy ; these are the principal advantages claimed for intubation over the latter operation. It is stated by some authorities that the prognosis in cases of tracheotomy after intubation is not favorable, but my personal ex- perience does not agree with this statement; for I have opened the trachea in a number of patients in whom a fair trial of intubation had failed to relieve the dyspnoea, and the results following the operation have been in nowise less satisfactory than those in which tracheotomy has been resorted to as a primary operation. Intubation in Chronic Stenosis of the Larynx.—The operation of intubation has been successfully employed to relieve the dyspnoea resulting from chronic stenosis of the larynx, and it has been found that an intubation-tube can in these cases be worn for a considerable time without inconvenience. It has been employed in cases of chronic syphilitic stenosis, cicatricial contraction, bilateral paralysis of the ab- ductors, paresis of the cords from disuse, and in cases where there is difficulty in permanently dispensing with the tracheotomy-tube from