INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 850 button, is an important time-saving appliance developed through ex- perimentation on the lower animals. Abdominal surgery, for the most part, has passed the transitional and speculative epoch in the last decade. It is now in position to assume its relation to the general system of surgery, as have amputa- tions, ligations, and excisions. The natural effect of these propitious influences has been to increase the confidence of the surgeon, and con- ditions are now attacked with boldness and success which but a few years ago were only palliated for a short time until the patient died. Peritonitis. When facts in any department of knowledge become clearly estab- lished and adequate, simplicity in classification is a natural sequence. The application of the foregoing statement to later conceptions of peri- tonitis is a striking illustration of its truth. Idiopathic peritonitis has practically been abolished from medical nomenclature, and for a good reason: it is indefinite and inaccurate. We are asked, indirectly to be sure, to accept the truthfulness of the antiquated notion that a specific inflammation may arise of itself. Clinical experience and experi- mental investigation both establish, almost if not quite beyond contro- versy, that peritonitis can only arise through bacteriological infection. That exposure to cold, strains, and contusions of the abdominal walls and viscera may be associated with a succeeding peritonitis cannot be disputed, but only in a contributing way. Irritation results in decreas- ing the resisting power to bacteriological invasion. An injured intes- tine may let out through its coats pathogenic bacteria, which could not pass through a normal intestinal wall. A serious skepticism may be maintained regarding peritonitis in- duced by the injection of irritants like trypsin and croton oil into the peritoneum. While the results may show pathological conditions, in many cases similar to the conditions found in a bacteriologically induced peritonitis, yet they are not identical. The results of experimentation are often untrustworthy because the experiments have not been carried to a final conclusion. It is difficult to understand why a special etiology is required for peritoneal inflammation. It being granted that peri- tonitis is necessarily an inflammation induced by bacteriological infec- tion, its varieties must be determined from another standpoint than that of etiology. Pathological conditions constitute the proper basis for the differentiation of the varieties of a disease. From conditions found in operations, and at the post-mortem table, peritonitis is either septic, suppurative, plastic, or tubercular, the character of the exudate determining the variety in each case. A great variety of pathogenic bacteria have been found in the exu- dation of peritonitis—Streptococcus pyogenes and erysipelatis, Staphy- lococcus pyogenes, aureus, and albus, Diplococcus pneumoniae, Bacillus tuberculosis, Bacillus pyocyaneus, Bacillus communis coli—and a definite but variable number of each variety are required to induce inflam- matory reaction. For example: experimentation has shown that one minim of a pure culture of a given form of bacterium produces no re- action when introduced into the peritoneum of a rabbit. Five minims