918 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. Casper, Biedert, and Roux have used the galvanic current to reduce enlarged prostate, very much after the manner of Apostoli’s use of this agent in fibro-myomata of the uterus. The negative pole is introduced into the rectum, and a tine needle attached to this pole is pushed through the mucous membrane into the prostate. The positive pole is placed on the lower part of the abdomen. Casper employed a current of twenty-five milliamperes, and Roux one of seventy milliamperes. Bie- dert says that in one case out of five reduction in the size of the gland followed. In some cases both Casper and Roux say that the organ diminished and that improvement ensued; one case was followed by rectal fistula. Professor Bottini, in March, 1891, claimed that in 75 cases he had had only 2 deaths, 32 cases improved, and 12 treated without benefit by internal galvano-cautery.1 W. Bruce Clarke re- cords I cases in which he tried Bottini's method, with complete suc- cess in 3, and marked improvement in the fourth case. He says that this procedure is applicable in cases where the obstructing portion is very small. Mercier introduces through the penis an instrument hav- ing a male and female blade, something like a lithotrite, and punches out a portion of the prostatic tissue about the neck of the bladder. Gouley’s operation is a modification of Mercier's. Prostatectomy has been done through the perineum, by first per- forming median lithotomy, then finding the projecting or obstructing portion, and removing it with the finger or with special forceps or curette. Bellfield says that in many cases the obstructive part, middle or lateral lobe, has been removed in this way. Watson, of Boston, has shown, however, that while in two-thirds of the cases requiring operation the growth can be reached by any one “possessing a fin- ger that has a working length of three inches or more,” in one-third of the cases the vesical growth cannot be reached and removed by the perineal route. The depth of the perineum varies much in different individuals; it is often rigid and loaded with fat. Another serious objection to the peri neal incision is the small space the operator has for manipulation. Dittel's operation of lateral prostatectomy has met with some suc- cess. A catheter is tied in the urethra, and the rectum is filled with gauze, so that both of these structures may be more easily recognized and avoided. The patient lies on his belly with his legs hanging down. An incision is begun at the point of the coccyx, and carried to the right, around the sphincter ani, to the median line in front; the ischio-rectal fossa is thus opened, the rectum is pushed aside, and one lateral lobe of the prostate is exposed; further dissection to the left of the middle line is then made and the other lateral lobe is brought into view, when a large wedge-shaped piece is removed from each. When the obstruc- tion is due to enlargement of the lateral lobes and the prostatic urethra is compressed to a slit, this operation may be attended with benefit. By far the most successful and practical operation, however, is that devised by McGill, of Leeds. A suprapubic cystotomy is done in the ordinary way and the obstructing part of the prostate is removed. The mucous membrane covering the projecting portion is cut through, and the operation is completed with the fingers and the forceps; the ecra- seur and the rongeur forceps may also be useful. The prostatic tissue 1 British Medical Journal, December, 1892.