96 DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. her that, wherever sepsis occurs in operative cases, in which no wound existed before, a grave mistake must have been made by the operator. We are all aware how immensely the responsibility of the surgeon has been increased by this knowledge. It is unnecessary to mention how manifold the sources of infection maybe during an operation, on hands, instruments, dressings, etc. On the other hand, there still remain quite a number of cases, where the poison, entering through an apparently insignificant lesion, pro- duces its deleterious effect with such tremendous rapidity that even our modern ways of disinfecting and treating wounds, etc., leave us at an entire loss how to save the patient. I remember a case where a child who had injured himself slightly by falling in the gutter in front of a butcher’s shop, died within twenty-four hours of acute sepsis, in spite of thorough disinfection of the wound half an hour after the injury, long and deep incisions where the slightest swelling appeared, etc. In another instance, a butcher, having scratched himself with a piece of bone, died within thirty hours of septicaemia, in spite of most energetic and heroic treatment, long incisions, amputation of the arm, etc. The difficulty is that we cannot foresee the intensity of the infection which has taken place, and that experience teaches us that most of these cases recover under ordinary surgical treatment, in spite of the occurrence of acute lymphangeitis, with a temperature rising perhaps to 105° F., the patients usually recovering within twenty-four hours without recourse being had to any specially heroic treatment, which would, perhaps, be of no avail in those cases where it seemed really necessary. Morbid Anatomy.—The anatomico-pathological changes in septi- caemia are, first of all, to be seen locally at the place of infection, at the wound and its surroundings, as will be described more minutely in connection with the symptomatology. The most constant changes are found in the blood of septic corpses; it is usually dark, of tarry consis- tence, incompletely coagulated, and subject to rapid decomposition, which accounts for the unusually rapid decay of such cadavers, so that after twelve hours sometimes not only internal organs, but also the outer surface of the body, may be in full decomposition. The blood has a special, sweetish, putrid smell, and quite often an acid reaction, which is caused very likely, as Vogel and Scherer have shown, by the forma- tion of carbonic acid. There are always a large number of bacteria to be found in the blood and the different organs—a larger amount than in the cadavers of those dead from other infectious diseases. The dis- solution of the leucocytes and to a certain extent of the red blood-cor- puscles is characteristic. The organs show few typical changes. What we find most often are small ecchymoses in nearly all of them. Heart and lungs show noth- ing special; sometimes we find diffuse pleurisy and symptoms of slight pericarditis. The intestinal tract frequently shows an extensive enter- itis, sometimes a dysenteric inflammation. The spleen is constantly enlarged, hemorrhagic, and soft. Von Bergmann saw in forty out of one hundred and eighty autopsies, hemorrhagic infarcts of the size of a hazelnut in the spleen, which in his opinion were not caused by embolic processes. The liver is usually somewhat swollen, congested, and frangible. The kidneys always show marked hyperiemia. On the