DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. 513 Treatment by Traction.—The early methods of treatment by continu- ous extension, either in bed or by means of apparatus worn while the patient was walking about, had been practically abandoned until the case reported by Buckminster Brown,1 of Boston, in 1885. In this case a girl four years old with double congenital dislocation of the hip had very loose joints, the walk was bad, and no trace of an acetabulum could be found by manipulation. The patient was put to bed, and con- tinuous traction was made by weights to stretch the contracted tissues, and to bring the femur into its proper position. After some weeks, passive movements were made by changing the position of the pulleys. The child was kept recumbent for thirteen months, and after two years and. three months of treatment, either in bed or by going about in a wlieel-crutcli, the heads of the femora were found in place on Nelaton’s line, and the patient was allowed to begin walking about. At the time of Dr. Brown’s report the walk was normal, and she was able to play and run about like other children. It has since been reported that a relapse finally occurred. Only under the most exceptional circum- stances, and with parents of exceptional intelligence and interest, could any such treatment be pursued satisfactorily. Other methods of treatment by traction have not as a rule yielded good results, though Myers quotes from Schede four complete cures ef- fected by means of a splint which held the leg constantly abducted; and the large number of corsets and pelvic bands which have been advocated to retain the head of the femur in its proper position are for the most part worthless, or of very little use,2 so that on the whole it may be said that the results of mechanical treatment for congenital dislocation of the hip have been of an unsatisfactory character. Operative treatment was employed very early, even in the time of Guerin, who practised tenotomy of the peri-trochanteric muscles with comparatively little relief. Subcutaneous operations, with or without extension, were performed by Bouvier, Pravaz, Corridge, and Brodliurst. Barwell revived the old operation of Guerin, and reported good results. Koenig and Hueter attempted elaborate operations for covering the head of the femur with periosteum detached from the ilium, but no one operation met with any extended acceptance. The results of excision have not on the whole been satisfactory. In the first place a stiff joint is likely to result from the procedure; in the second place a certain amount of shortening is necessitated. It is not worth while to enter upon the details of these operations, which have not realized the expectations which had been formed of them.3 Of 27 cases which I have analyzed of reported resection for congenital dislocation of the hip, 17 were unilateral, 7 were bilateral, and in 3 this point was not mentioned. In the 7 cases of double dislocation 3 patients walked badly after operation; 4 walked passably, requiring the use of a cane, while in 3 cases it was noted that displacement of the femur during walking persisted. In the 17 unilateral cases operated 1 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, 1885, No. 23. 2 Lehrbuch d. spec. Chirurgie, 188?, Bd. iii., S. 287. Arcliiv f. klin. Chirurgie, 1885, Bd. xxxii., S. 516. “Jules Guerin, Reclierches sur les Luxations Congenitales, 1841. Le^ns Cliniques sur les Maladies de l’Apparatus Locomoteur, Paris, 1885. Giraldes, L’Union Med., 1869. Lec- ture on Orthopaedic Surgery, London, 1876. Lancet, 1885, vol. i., p. 271. A. Mayer, Das neue Heilverfahr. bei Fotalluxatioueu durch Osteotomie, Wurzburg, 1885. Brit. Med. Journal, May 28, 1887. vol. vn.—33