EXPLORATION OF THE URETHRA AND BLADDER. 945 and should be lubricated with either petrolatum, borated glycerin, or carbolized oil (1-40). It is then gently inserted as far as it is in- tended to explore the channel, usually, at first, to the posterior limit of the bulbous portion. During the insertion of the tube the penis should be held at about a right angle with the body. The introduction being accomplished, the obturator should be carefully withdrawn, and the light attached or directed into the tube or speculum. It will be ob- served that the urethra, over the end of this, closes in in the shape of a funnel or cone. From the periphery to the apex of this funnel the urethra, in its natural tendency to contract, is thrown into folds, which converging, cause the lumen to appear as a depressed spot or line, known as the “central figure” (Grimfeld). Should it be intended to explore the posterior urethra, some difficulty may be encountered in introducing the tube at the entrance to the membranous urethra. This may be overcome by depressing the distal end of the tube, carrying the penis well down between the thighs, just as is done in introducing the evacuating tubes in the operation of litholapaxy. There is some dif- ference of opinion as to the necessity for amesthetizing the urethra with cocaine preparatory to examination. Fenwick 1 strongly advocates its being done, and says, in his excellent work on Electric Endoscopy, that he makes it “a rule to examine under the influence of cocaine,” and, having employed it in a very large number of cases, many times in twenty-per-cent, solution, without any bad results, that he believes “the apprehensions of dangerous symptoms following its use upon the urethra to be quite unfounded.” Outside of the question of the danger of the possible toxic action of the drug, however, there seems to be some force in the argument that cocaine may alter the appearance of the surface of the urethral mucous membrane, blanching it through its constricting influence upon the capillaries. Agreeing with Kiotz,2 therefore, I believe that, except in cases of supersensitive individuals or in instances where there exist some specially hypersesthetic lesions or areas of the canal, it is probably better not to use the cocaine. If it should be necessary to employ it, the strength of the solution need not exceed four or five per cent. Endoscopic Appearance of the Normal Urethra.—For practical purposes the division of the urethra into two parts—the anterior or spongy, comprising all from the junction of the bulbous with the mem- branous portion forward, and therefore being about six inches in length, and the posterior, including the membranous and prostatic portions—is most convenient. In inspecting the urethra, the anterior portion should be examined first. In the spongy portion, beginning at the bulbous region, it will be observed that the mucous membrane at the end of the tube lies in heavy folds. As the tube advances outward, the mucous membrane appears as a funnel, with less distinct folds running towards the apex, and the lumen is a slit directed transversely, or nearly so, until near the fossa navicularis, where it becomes either crescentic or triangular in shape, with the base of the triangle or the 1 Electric Examination of the Bladder and Urethra, 2d edition. London, 1389. 2 System of Genito-Urinary Diseases, Syphilology, and Dermatology, Article on Endos- copy. Edited by Morrow. New York, 1893. VOL. VII.—60