ERYSIPELAS. 79 Fig. 1581. Streptococci Erystpelatis. X 100. Sec- tion through a lymphatic duct of the skin. (Fluegge.) primary lesion. It frequently is healed up in from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, in spite of the infectious character of the disease, which is severe enough to infect other, more remote parts, or even the whole system. Or, to pick out another instance, we very often observe the so- called idiopathic bubo in the groin, .an adenitis which has its cause in a badly cut corn of the toe, or in a slight sore- ness of the toes produced by liyperidrosis (sweating feet). It has been said that the possibility could not be denied a priori, that in rare cases erysipelas might originate in le- sions of the digestive apparatus, the ute- rus, or the lungs, or, generally speaking, of the internal integuments of the body which communicate with the outer air. This, then, might produce a metastatic erysipelas of the skin. After careful study of the whole literature on this point, I am inclined to say that we have not a single reported case which proves with absolute certainty an infection in this way. Besides, the modern conception of erysipelas inclines strongly to the belief that there is no metastatic erysipelas, and that those metastatic cases which show most of the symptoms of true erysipelas have nothing to do with that disease. The extremely interesting question whether the cocci of erysipelas can enter the body through its natural openings, the uninjured suda- tory and mucous glands and hair follicles, is not as easy to decide. Since it has been shown experimentally that micro-organisms can leave the body through these natural openings, it cannot be denied, without further investigation, that they are able to enter by those channels. The experiments above alluded to proved the existence in the sweat of pigs of the same microbes with which they had previously been infected. Of course, the snout, through which alone the pig sweats, had been thoroughly disinfected, the animal being treated with pilocarpine, to produce profuse sweating. Besides, Garre, professor of surgery in the University of Tubingen, has proved with absolute certainty that infec- tion by the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus through the uninjured skin, is possible. He took a small particle of pure culture of the coccus and rubbed it on his forearm, whereupon he got no less than twenty-nine furuncles of the severest kind, the experiment nearly costing him his life. Erysipelas in coincidence with internal diseases, acute as well as chronic—as, for instance, typhoid, variola, varicella, intermittent fever, pneumonia, Bright's disease, cirrhosis, heart disease, intestinal disor- ders, etc.—used to prove of especial etiological interest. With our idea of erysipelas, we can hardly understand that such excellent observers as those who described these cases were not able to keep the two diseases apart, since they had nothing whatsoever to do with each other. This is one of the great results of our modern study of the etiology of diseases, that we know exactly the symptoms which can be produced by a specific