596 SURGICAL DISEASES OF TIIE HEAD. Treatment.—The treatment m many respects is the same as that already indicated for brain abscess in general, but there are some special indications of importance. Mastoid Operations.—In any case of long-standing disease of the ear, if persistent headache, vomiting, or mental dulness occur, with- out any permanent rise of temperature, the external meatus should first be thoroughly cleansed antiseptically, and then the mastoid should be opened by a longitudinally curved incision posterior to the ear, from the base of the mastoid to its tip. The mastoid antrum and the mas- Fig. 1688. Surface Guides for the Sigmoid Sinus and the Supra-Meatal Triangle (Macewen). The three artificial lines drawn upon the skull indicate the following: (1) The short vertical line from the posterior border of the external auditory meatus to the posterior root of the zygoma marks the base of the supra-meatal triangle. The broken line indicates the anterior border of the supra-meatal triangle. The third side of the triangle is the root of the zygoma. The broken line also indicates the course of the facial nerve. (2) The second vertical line, extending from the parieto-squamo-mastoid junction to the tip of mastoid, in the upper two-thirds of it,s length indicates the position of the sigmoid sinus (the curved portiou of the lateral sinus). (3) The oblique line, passing from the asterion to the upper limit of the external auditory meatus, indicates in its posterior two-thirds the sigmoid sinus from its commencement to its knee or bend. toid cells should be thoroughly opened by the gouge and chisel, and the posterior wall of the meatus itself should be chiselled away to the cavity of the middle ear. In order to reach the mastoid antrum, an opening should be made one-third or one-lialf an inch behind, and the same distance above, the centre of the meatus. The mastoid cells lie between the antrum and the apex of the mastoid. All the inspissated pus found should be removed by a sharp spoon or with the gouge,