979 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE AND TUNICA VAGINALIS. mine positively its location. It is dangerous to rely solely on a feeling of fluctuation at the site of proposed puncture, because the testicle may be so soft, or the tunica vaginalis so thickened, as to cause a mis- take on this point. Of course the use of a light will in most cases show translucency at the place of puncture. In regard to the special mode of operating to be preferred in attempt- ing a radical cure, the profession still seems to be somewhat undecided. The great advances which have been made of recent years in operative surgery and in tbe treatment of wounds, incline many surgeons to per- form cutting operations. As regards treatment by injections, those of tincture of iodine and carbolic acid are the only ones that have survived. The use of carbolic acid has not supplanted the older tincture of iodine. Abscesses have occurred from its use, and also gangrene of the tunica vaginalis. Recurrences too have been at least as frequent as after the use of iodine. Some of these bad results have possibly been due to the injection of too large a quantity of the liquefied carbolic acid. Dr. Levis advised that only one drachm should be employed. Mr. Mansell Moullin 1 states that the failures after the injection of iodine amount to at least one-third, but be allows tbe iodine to escape, or even some- times dilutes it with an equal quantity of water. Bramann 3 gives the percentage of failures in the Kiel clinic as three and two-tenths. This I believe represents about the true number. Professor Agnew, who had an immense experience, stated 3 that he could recall but a single case of failure, and that in a hydrocele sixteen inches in circumference with thickened walls. His method, following Syme, of Edinburgh, was to inject two and a half drachms of the pure tincture of iodine (iodine one part, alcohol twelve and seven-tenths parts, by weight), which he allowed to remain. The sac was carefully manipulated so as to insure the iodine coming into contact with every part of its interior. Jacobson 4 recommends the injection of from two to four drachms of the Edinburgh tincture. More failures have been attributed to the in- jection treatment than it is properly answerable for. Weakening the injection fluid and allowing it to escape have been responsible for most of them. The pain accompanying the use of iodine has been made an objection to it. With carbolic acid the pain is not so severe, but if it is desired to use the former substance, the preliminary injection, after removal of the hydrocele fluid, of a drachm of ten-per-cent, cocaine solution will suffice to make the pain bearable. J. Neumann 6 introduces an aseptic trocar and leaves the canula in place, covering it with cotton and a bandage. It is allowed to remain for two or three days. In his six cases adhesion took place without in- flammation or suppuration. Buschke6 pierces the sac with a trocar and introduces a drainage-tube which he fastens with a safety pin. The cavity is washed out with a carbolic lotion of from three to five per cent. Gauze may be used in- stead of the tube. It is removed in from four to six days, and during the treatment the patient is allowed to walk around. Hebing 7 introduces from above downward through the sac, by means 'Surgery, p. 1143. 2 Berliner kliniscbe Wochenscbrift, Bd. xxii., S. 259. 3 Surgery, vol. ii., p. 576. 4 Op. cit., p. 142. 6 Wiener mediziniscbe Presse, No. 45, 1893. 6 L’Union Medicale, 1894, p. 399. 7 Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, 1894, No. 26, S. 596.