852 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. sociated with it abscess, which, gradually distending, finally ruptures its wall of lymph, and the contents enter the general peritoneum. A septic peritonitis, naturally from the character of the infection, is in- duced, and proceeds rapidly to a fatal termination. In this way many neglected cases of pyosalpingitis, ovarian abscess, and appendicitis ter- minate fatally. , Tubercular peritonitis is usually a low grade of inflammation in- duced by the deposit of tubercle on the peritoneum. It is observed in two varieties: one is associated with a serous, and the other with a plastic exudation—the exudate in either case resulting from the presence of tubercle on the membrane. Symptoms of Peritonitis.—In general, the symptoms of peritonitis are characteristic and do not often lead to a mistaken diagnosis. Many evidences of the onset of the disease are so commingled with those of the etiological condition that isolation and analysis are quite impos- sible, or are capable of serious misconceptions. This is especially true of appendicitis. Pain is generally, and correctly, regarded as an important symptom of peritonitis, yet pain is not necessarily present in the most virulent attacks of the septic variety. This fact is confirmed by many careful observers. Again, there is no characteristic pain either in kind or po- sition. Patients describe it as sharp or dull, steady or lancinating, and of all degrees of severity. They often describe it as a pain such as they have never felt before, and as one which gives them an idea that some- thing very serious or fatal will result from it. The pain of peritonitis may be simulated by that of appendicitis, perihepatitis, enteritis, pan- creatitis, biliary or renal colic, obstruction of the bowels, intestinal colic, gastralgia, and influenza, and can only be differentiated by a most care- ful estimate of the value of the accompanying symptoms. The pain of peritonitis is never relieved by pressure, and is accompanied by a tender- ness more or less exquisite. Nausea and vomiting are often early and very serious symptoms. First the contents of the stomach and duodenum are evacuated, and then, particularly in septic cases, large quantities of a spinach-green or blackish, flocculent fluid. Where there is in- testinal obstruction, either organic or paralytic, the vomited material becomes stercoraceous in character. Vomiting of either of the last va- rieties must always be looked upon as of very serious importance. Ab- dominal distention is a third important symptom. In septic peritonitis it comes on early and very rapidly. In plastic peritonitis, on the other hand, it is a late symptom and an indication of beginning organic intes- tinal obstruction. There are no more important symptoms of peritonitis than those found in the circulation. While there is nothing in the pulse which may be described as pathognomonic of peritoneal inflammation, yet there are few experienced observers who will not. be able to establish a presumptive diagnosis from the pulse alone. The pulse is rapid—from 100 to 160—small, compressible, and very seldom dicrotic. It falls away from the finger, and may intermit. If there is much abdominal disten- tion the right heart and veins are distended and the skin cyanotic. The temperature curve of peritonitis shows nothing characteristic in septic peritonitis; it may continue below normal until death occurs, and