810 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. The chief symptom of these injuries is pain, which is especially marked upon forced respiration, as in coughing or sneezing, and may be elicited by firm pressure made along the course of the injured rib by the end of the finger; whereas with diffused pressure, made with the flat of the hand, the pain will often be overlooked, except one hand be placed over the sternum and the other over the vertebral ends of the ribs, with firm pressure and counter-pressure, when the injury may be located with a fair degree of accuracy. Again, the pain may be due to a bruising or laceration of the muscles, especially the pectoralis major, as might follow a similar injury in any other part of the body. Treatment.—The chief indication in the treatment of these cases is to procure as nearly absolute rest as possible, which can only be done by immobilizing the injured side so as to limit its motion during respira- tion. This is best effected by the use of carefully applied strips of adhesive plaster, two inches wide, of sufficient length to extend from the sternal border of the sound side to the vertebral border of the same. The strips should be applied firmly, commencing at the lower margin of the ribs, in extreme expiration, and should be carried up, each strip overlapping one-half of that previously applied, to the axilla. When this point is reached, the scapular and subclavicular spaces must be covered in the same manner by applying the strips obliquely, thus covering in and immobilizing completely the injured side. The appli- cation of a tight broad bandage over the strips of plaster, as is often advised, is undesirable, as it tends to interfere with the action of the sound side. Contusions Involving the Thoracic Viscera.—The deeper struc- tures of the thorax do not always escape, even if the external injury is slight. There may be a rupture of the great vessels of the lungs, or a rupture of the heart or pericardium. Less severe contusions may involve the pleura or parenchyma of the lung, causing hemorrhage, which may be followed by pneumonia or by gangrene. Pleural and lung wounds are caused in many instances by the sharp ends of fractured ribs, in cases in which little or no contusion of the viscus has existed, and in which extensive emphysema often follows. One of the most characteristic signs of rupture of the lung, not dependent upon fracture, is emphy- sema making its appearance at the root of the neck or in the epigastric region. Rupture of the lung in the true sense implies extensive hemor- rhage into the chest and bronchi, with expectoration of blood and frothy mucus. The heart and pericardium have also been ruptured, and the heart torn from its attachments. These extreme injuries are usually the result of crushing forces causing fracture of the sternum or ribs. The heart appears to experience the result of concussion much in the same manner as the hrain, and fatal results have followed when an autopsy has failed to reveal any apparent alteration in the cardiac structure. When these severe contusions are received on the lower portion of the chest, occasionally the liver or kidney ma3r be ruptured; injury of the latter viscus may escape detection until revealed by post-mortem in- spection. The prognosis in these cases depends largely upon the pres- ence or absence of serious injury to the viscera, grave lesions of which are, as a rule, accompanied by much shock.