960 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. F. S. Edwards,1 after testing the treatment, attributes to it these advantages, viz.: confinement of the patient is not necessary; there is no risk to life, no pain, only sometimes slight discomfort, and no bleeding; if unsuccessful, it does not interfere with urethrotomy being undertaken forthwith; and a permanent cure may follow, which is the rarest thing by any other method. He says that electrolysis is “of the greatest use in strictures of small calibre to facilitate the pas- sage of a urethrotome, and in impassable strictures to render possible the passage of bougies, if for any reason electrolysis is not persisted in.” When the stricture is recent, and approaches the ring variety, “the better,” he says, “the result.” Strictures of the deep urethra, not amenable to treatment by dilatation, should, he thinks, be subjected to electrolysis before any cutting operation is thought of. On the other hand, results have been published which do not support the method. Thus, following its employment, increase in the stricture from swelling, urethral irritation followed by discharge, difficult mic- turition, or, immediately after the sitting, chill and fever, have been observed. Cases in which such results were noted have been reported by G. W. Allen.2 F. Tilden Brown,3 in an excellent discussion of the subject of elec- trolysis, reasons from the known action of electricity when employed for the cure of naevi, or for the obliteration of hair follicles, and says that “shrinkage does not take place in a peripheral accumulation at the expense of a central attenuation, hut just the reverse. Hence any gain in the calibre of an organic stricture following such treatment is due to dilatation by the instrument, and in direct opposition to the con- tracting influence of electrolysis.” He names as the only advantages which he has found the method to possess: that it encourages patience and gentleness; that it furnishes two aids in overcoming spasmodic stricture, (a) lubrication of the canal, and (b) anaesthetizing influence upon the terminal nerves at the irritable point, and possibly earlier relaxation of spasm by muscular exhaustion following overdistention; and that it is followed by a slightly increased rate of exfoliation of hypertrophied epithelial masses. E. L. Keyes, as the result of his experience with the method, in carefully observed cases, makes this statement :4 “ My study of the subject, and the experience it has brought me, digested with all the impartiality I possess, lead me to state that the allegation that electric- ity, however employed, is able to remove organic stricture radically, lacks the requirement of demonstration.” Desnos,5 more recently, in an article detailing the results of experi- mental researches upon the urethrae of dogs, as well as the effects fol- lowing the clinical application of electrolysis in forty-six cases, records an experience far from encouraging to the advocates of the method. Without going further into detail on this subject, it may he said that the claims advanced for electrolysis have not been substantiated by a generally favorable experience. It is good proof of this that, in the two decades which have passed since its introduction, the method has gained no appreciable foothold in practice. 1 Med. Press and Circ., 1888, n. s., vol. xlv., p. 369. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., 1887, vol. cxvii., p. 621. 3 Journ. Cutaneous and Genito-Urin. Dis., New York, 1888, vol. vi., pp. 244, 294. 4 New York Med. Journ., Oct. 6, 1888. 5 Journ. des Mai. des Org. Genito-Urinaires, Aout, 1893.