1051 SMALL HOSPITALS. strnction throughout is of the “cohesive system,” by which all ceilings are formed of layers of vitreous tiles laid as shallow arches, or higher domes, over the rooms, and sustaining the floors above. This is an adaptation to modern use of the early Italian and Spanish dome con- struction, and this building is the first in America planned especially for the modern application of this method throughout. The inner partition walls being all of brick, there is a unity of fireproof construc- tion, largely of vitreous and non-absorptive materials, including the outer walls. There is no iron or wood for the support of stairways or other construction, and only the floors and slight finishing around doors and windows are of hard pine, except where the woodwork is of oak, in the first and second stories of the administration building. Here, in the main hall, the first floor is laid in marble mosaic; and in the con- necting corridors, serving as sun-rooms and leading to the pavilions, there are tiled floors. In the lavatory and bathrooms, operating- theatre, and conservatory or sun-room, and in all of the basements, the floors are of granolithic cement. The stairs are of marble, slate, or cement. The outer walls are hollow, and the plastering is upon the brick. The cost of the building, ready for use, was something over one hundred thousand dollars, exclusive of the surgical building. The plan of the first floor presents the arrangement of the wards and rooms with much detail, to which little need be added. The entrance hall of the administration building, which faces the south, leads to a rotunda which is finished in marble and oak, with an appropriate tablet, giving it a memorial character. The second floor contains eight private rooms in the main building, and the service rooms, etc., are in the rear extension, with an intervening cross lobby. The third floor has accom- modations for twelve nurses. The one-story pavilions contain each a ward for ten beds and four private rooms; the capacity of the hospital is thirty-six beds. The ward, 28x36 feet, has an arched ceiling at the height of 13 feet, and while it has all the advantages of a round or octagon ward with a central chimney and vent-shaft, its general rec- tangular shape is better for convenience of service and arrangement of furniture. The bathroom and lavatory, with a screen between, form together a lobby surrounding the inner apartment containing the water- closet, etc. The surgical building has a high-domed roof, showing handsomely the tiled construction, in which are ample skylights. The heating is by steam and indirect radiation in all wards and rooms. The warm-air inlets are near the floor and mainly under or near to windows. The boilers are placed in a deep basement under the surgical building. The ventilation of the latter is by the chimney, with a central smoke-flue. In the wards it is by the central chimneys also; elsewhere there are vent-chambers in the roof to which the ducts are led from the rooms. There are openings under the beds in the large wards, connecting with the base of the large chimney, and in other rooms near the floor and ceiling, into ducts which rise mainly in connection with the chimney stacks. The rooms for nurses and servants, in the second and third stories, are warmed and ventilated by the tran- som system; the warm air, abundantly supplied in the halls, enters through the open transoms, and after traversing the room, aided by the chilling it receives at the windows, makes its exit by vent-openings near the floor in the interior walls. The ventilation, as a whole, is ac-