19 ELECTRICITY IN PHAGOCYTOSIS. study shows us that phagocytes and leucocytes are two things which must not be confounded. Some work of Soudakewitch on the modification of muscular fibres in trichinosis confirms that of Metchnikoff. When a trichina is in- stalled in a muscle, it is the same elements, the same “ muscular pha- gocytes,” that are formed, and that tend to produce the resorption of the fibrillae that have already been destroyed by the parasite. The latter by its movements ends by destroying all the living cells, and there is therefore left only a mass of degenerated elements. At this moment alone, new leucocytes are introduced into the bundle to break it up, and englobe the debris. These two pieces of work are of great value, as showing how far phagocytosis is of importance in varying cases, and as showing also that it can be carried on not only by leuco- cytes, but also by elements of a different nature and conformation. Electricity in Phagocytosis. As a part of the study of phagocytosis, and, from one point of view, of inflammation, the action of various agencies upon the phagocytes is of importance, and among these agencies none are so subtle and in- structive as electricity. The subject has been worked out by a num- ber of experimenters, notably Kuhne,1 Engelmann,2 and especially Verworn.3 A summary of the conclusions of the latter is as follows: In one chapter, he studies the excitation of rhizopods by the galvanic current, and he uses for this purpose electrodes that he considers unpolarizable, employing a battery of twelve elements, in bichromate, as the generator of his electricity. As the result of the first series of experiments, he concludes, first, that the law of contractions hitherto considered appli- cable to all contractile organisms is not so applicable, and that there exists a series of elements that are not governed by it; and, second, that there is not a common law of contraction for the three species upon which he experimented. The second part of his work consists of ex- periments upon the ciliated infusoria, to show the influence exerted by electricity upon their orientation and their displacement. He experi- mented upon the Paramcecium aurelia, the Halteria grandinella, the Stentor coerulea, the Stentor polymorphus, the Colpoda cucullus, the Coleps hirtus, etc. He found that all these animals, when watched in a drop of water through which an electric current was passed, moved toward the negative pole, with undulations more feeble as the current was less. If the current was broken, they all took their freedom again, and became disseminated throughout the drop of water. As soon as the circuit was closed, they arranged themselves in such a way as to present their anterior extremities toward the negative pole, and directed themselves toward it. They followed therefore the direction of the electric current, passing from the positive to the negative pole. This phenomenon might be attributed to a cataphoric action, and, in fact, it is known that inert particles which are very small, and are held in suspension by a fluid traversed by a current, are mechanically trans- 1 Researches upon Protoplasm and Contractility, Leipsic, 1864. 2 Pfliiger’'. Archiv, Bd. ii., 1869. 3 Ibid., Bd. xlv., 1889.