420 INJURIES OF BONES. Cases of non-union of the shaft, treated by wiring, have been put upon record by Wright,1 by Keeling,2 by Sibthorpe,3 and by Symonds.4 I have myself met with two cases in which the ends of the frag- ments, instead of being dense and hard, were so softened that they could not hold the wires, and the patients were obliged to be content with such advantage as they could gain from prothetic appliances. Cases of paralysis of the parts supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve, from angular deformity or excess of callus after fracture of the shaft of the humerus, have been reported by Puzey,5 Nicolson,0 and Murray.7 The last-named author quotes Bruns as having collected 77 instances of the kind. Lunn8 records the case of a woman aged 38, who had a compound comminuted fracture of the right humerus, and six months after union was complete had pain which was relieved by the removal of a spicula of bone pressing up under the fibres of the musculo-spiral nerve; at another operation a mass of callus was gouged away from beneath the median nerve, after which recovery was complete. In a case recorded by Wheeler,9 a boy aged 12 sustained a transverse fracture just above the condyles, and the pressure of the end of the shaft of the bone against the brachial artery caused the death of the limb. Puzey 10 saw a man who a year previously had had his upper extrem- ity crushed in some machinery; he had oblique fracture of the upper third of the humerus, ununited by reason of fascia caught between the fragments; a united fracture at the middle of the shaft; another, un- united, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds; incomplete an- kylosis of the elbow; comminuted fracture of both bones just below the joint, ununited; fracture of lower third of the ulna, the upper fragment united to the radius. Various means having been vainly employed to effect union, and suppuration having occurred in the wrist-joint, amputation at the shoulder was performed, and the man recovered. An unusual case has been reported by Stimson,11 in which a man about 50 years old had his elbow crushed under a heavy stone, and had the lower end of the humerus broken into three fragments, the condyle and trochlea forming one, the epicondyle a second, and the epitrochlea a third. Of detachment of the lower epiphysis of the humerus, Tubby 12 cites two specimens and five cases. In one of the cases amputation was necessary, and in two temporary occlusion of the arterial current was noted. Clark 13 mentions having seen a separation of this epiphysis in a new- born child. In my former article, allusion was made to the recommendation by I Lancet, Jan. 5, 1884. 2 British Medical Journal, Jan. 17, 1885. 8 Ibid., March 10, 1888. 4 Lancet, Dec. 2, 1882. 5 Liverpool Medico-Chirurgical Journal, July, 1889. 6 Gaillard’s Medical Journal, Jan., 1890. 7 New York Medical Journal, June 25, 1892. 8 Transactions of the Clinical Society of London, vol. xxv., 1892. 9 Trans, of Royal Academy of Medicine in Ireland, 1889. 10 British Medical Journal, Jan. 10, 1885. II New York Medical Journal, June 30, 1888. 12 Loc. cit. 13 Glasgow Medical Journal, Oct., 1886.