Sciences, vol. iii., 1892. CICATRICIAL DEFORMITIES AXI) DEFORMED SCARS. 31 Fin. 1707. tion is therefore to be deprecated. Occasionally a softened tubercular gland, or a tubercular abscess, may be drained by transfixing it with a needle carrying wire, silkworm gut, or silk, and leaving the suture material in the abscess as a sort of seton. This method is valuable as a means of preventing increase in the abscess and thinning of the skin when incision and curetting have to be delayed, but the latter operation is always preferable. The depressed scar of an old tubercular abscess may be improved by abrading the surface of the scar, making an elliptical incision around it, and drawing the skin over the abraded sur- face. This elevates the surface and substitutes a linear cicatrix for the depressed and often puckered one. By another method, suggested by Mr. W. Adams, the depressed tissues are separated from the under- lying fascia by a tenotome introduced subcutaneously. Then the scar tissue is elevated to the level of the surrounding skin, and is held in that position by small pins passed underneath. After a few days the pins are withdrawn, leaving the skin fixed in its new situation. When moles, warts, and other tumors, or malignant ulcers, are to be removed, the incisions should be so planned as to minimize the de- formity from cicatricial contraction. In many instances a plastic procedure should be done as a part of the preliminary operation, in order to lessen the cicatrizing tension or transfer it to an area where it will do little harm. These plastic operations justify by their ultimate results the additional incisions and conse- quently augmented hemorrhage. Excisions of growths near the eyelids and mouth very frequently require the gap left to be thus closed by cutaneous flaps from the neighboring skin. It is usually desirable to do both parts of the operation at one sitting, but quite frequently, as in all plastic surgery, secondary or tertiary operations are needed to get the most perfect result. When the entire thickness of the cheeks at the corners of the mouth is extensively re- moved, as for malignant disease, cicatricial lockjaw is pretty certain to occur if the tis- sues are drawn together by sutures. Unless a plastic reconstruction of the cheek (melo- plasty) is at once done by means of a flap from the neck or elsewhere, it is better to allow the wound to heal by granulation, since under these circumstances, the patient’s use of his jaws may lessen, though it will not entirely obviate, the cicatricial trismus. Bardenheuer 1 fills the gap by a flap cut from the forehead. This he turns downward, so that the skin of the brow substitutes the mucous membrane of the mouth. The raw surface of the flap occupying the gap in the cheek is then covered by a flap taken from the neck, so that the two flaps are placed with their raw surfaces in apposition. (Fig. l7uT.) This method of preventing cicatricial anchylosis is said to be better Wochensclirift. Sajous’s Annual of the Universal Medical Bardenheuer's Method for Prevention, of Cicatricial Closure of Jaw. 1 Deutsche medicinische