483 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF JOINTS. at a meeting of the New York Academy of Medicine six cases were re- ferred to, of which three were double. Patella.—If necessary in the reduction of old dislocations of the patella, the vastus externus may be cut. In order to retain the bone in position Lucas-Championniere cut a groove with a chisel, and placed the bone in the groove. Roux sewed the capsule to assist in holding the bone, and nailed the patella to the tibia. Gunshot Wounds of Joints. Two causes have greatly modified military surgery. One is the use of the new army rifles, which deliver bullets of very small diameter at the enormous velocity of over 2000 feet in a second, and the other is the more systematic use of antiseptics on the field of battle. Nearly all the great military nations have changed their guns, especially Germany, France, England, and Austria, and FiS- 1641. the United States of America. The new Springfield rifle has a cali- bre of only thirty one-hundredths of an inch, and the guns of the other principal nations are of nearly the same size. The bullet consists of lead, or lead and antimony, wedged into an elongated thimble of German silver, which gives the projectile a hard surface, and prevents it from being knocked out of shape or cut to pieces when striking a bone. It is consider- ably longer than the old bullet. These peculiar projectiles with their high velocity often perforate a hone in a remarkable manner, causing hut little shattering, especially if the per- foration is in cancellated tissue. Figs. 1(339 and 1640 show a bone perforated by a modern bullet fired at a medium distance, at which it has a singular power of making clean per- forations. Comminution of Bone by Modern Bullet. At short distances, however, the modern ball acts differently. When striking the brittle surface of the middle of a long bone, the shaft is smitten into numerous small pieces as shown in Fig. 1641. The bullet going at 2000 feet a second drives these pieces before it, causing them Fig-. 1639. Fig. 1640. Perforation of Bone by Modern Bullet.