INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. 698 surgery has been wonderfully developed. Removal of the fluid from the optic sheath (de Wecker) may do good, and all cases should he treated with iodide of potassium. Atrophy of the optic nerve is primary, secondary, or consecutive. It is primary when it originates in the nerve itself; secondary when it follows changes in the retina, choroid, or central nervous system, and consecutive when it follows neuritis. In appearance the nerve is white and excavated (when primary), and the vessels are much smaller than normal. Examinations of light and color sense, and as to restricted condition of field, are important in deciding whether or not the process is progressive. Berry says that restriction of the field of vision, when more or less concentric, and especially when the sense of color is rela- tively more defective than the sense of form, is always suggestive of progression. Central vision is usually lost as restriction increases, and Berry again says, “in all cases where there is merely a central scotoma, without any narrowing of the field, the prognosis is good.” It is often difficult to diagnose the cause of atrophy, and besides the ophthal- moscopic changes other symptoms of a general character must be taken into consideration, such as the reflexes, movements of the pupils, etc. Unilateral atrophies are usually caused by retinal or orbital changes, though the cause may be found within the cranium. Changes at the base of the brain cause pallor of the disk, but not constriction of the vessels unless there has been a papillitis. Nettleship shows that about seventy-five per cent, of cases of bilateral atrophy are due to the causes which produce degenerative changes in the sensory tracts of the spinal cord and brain. In tabes dorsalis atrophy occurs in about fifteen per cent. Primary optic atrophy is more common in men than women, and accounts for one-fourth of all cases of blindness. Amblyopia, or dimness of vision, may be congenital, and therefore due to defects in the eye or at the visual centres, reflex, or traumatic. Certain drugs and toxic agents cause amblyopias in some of which there are special features. Under this head may be mentioned uraemic, glycosuric, and malarial amblyopia, that from loss of blood, that from drugs, and hysterical and pretended amblyopia. The prognosis in all may be favorable if the changes have not gone too far and if the causes have not existed too long. In chronic retro-bulbar neuritis, or tobacco amblyopia, there is but little to be learned by ophthalmoscopic exam- ination, but more important .is the central scotoma, especially for red and green. It is oval in shape, and extends between the fixation point and the blind spot. It is usually caused by the combined abuse of tobacco and alcohol, although it has been seen when tobacco alone was used. The lesion is in the papillo-macular fibres. The prognosis is good when the cause is abated, and the treatment consists in giving strychnine until its physiological effects appear. Quinine Amblyopia.—According to de Scliweinitz, prolongation of quinine blindness causes true atrophy, and thrombosis of the central vessels may be expected in severe cases of the toxic action of the drug. He concludes, “it seems, then, very likely that the original effect of quinine is upon the vaso-motor centres, producing constriction of the vessels; that finally changes in the vessels themselves are set up, owing, perhaps, to an endo-vasculitis; that thrombosis may occur, and that the result of all these is an extensive atrophy of the visual tract.”