931 SELECTION OF A METHOD OF RADICAL TREATMENT. III. The third evidence of the table is startlingly clear, namely, that litholapaxy is plainly superior to every other method for the removal of stone, as far as its mortality is concerned, being twice as success- ful as the suprapubic method for children under fourteen, nearly four times as successful as the lateral or suprapubic for patients in middle life, and two and a half times as successful as the lateral, and five times as successful as the suprapubic method, for the removal of stone in old age. But here a word is due to the general subject. The question must be asked, and honestly answered : Do we do our whole duty in removing stone in old age? Surely not, for the stone is generally phospbatic, and not at all a malady but only a symptom, and it does not cure the patient of his real disease to take the stone from him any more than it cures him to wash the pus out of his bladder. Therefore it is that these pleasant statistics have less value than they might otherwise seem to have, and we must look beyond the immediate relief which the patient is to get from the removal of one factor of his distress, to the catheter-life and general discomfort which may remain after the stone is taken away, just as it was before, excepting to a less extent. It is not either my desire or my function to discuss the merits or de- merits of prostatectomy; this is as yet an operation of the future, but I gravely propose it as a proper subject for inquiry, whether it may not be better, in spite of the risk, in a properly selected set of cases, to make a small stone in the bladder of an old prostatic subject an excuse for prostatectomy in the patient’s interest. This question is by the way, and not apposite in the present discussion, to return to which it must again be emphatically stated that, as far as the stone itself is concerned, its removal may be effected more safely, in considering the question of mortality to the patient alone, by the crushing operation at any period of life than by any other operation if litholapaxy be feasible. There is one set of cases in old men which needs a passing notice, namely, those prostatic conditions in which there is a very deep bas- foncl or post-prostatic pouch, and in which, the stone being very small, litholapaxy is sometimes seemingly impracticable, as Buckston Browne demonstrated in an article in the Lancet for 1891. Yet even in these cases a skilful operator, with a properly selected instrument, may be able to take the stone out of the post-prostatic pouch, place it near the fundus, and putting the patient in Trendelenburg’s position, com- plete the crushing even under difficulties. Yet even when this is practicable, while it must be acknowledged that litholapaxy is the safer operation, it may be properly asked whether it is always the most expedient. Before passing to the details of such matters as the preparation of the patient for his operation, and any new features of operative detail which modern innovations seem to furnish for comment, it may be well, in the presence of the modern furor which still occupies the pro- fession relative to the performance of suprapubic cystotomy, to call to mind the operation of John Croft, recorded in the Lancet for 1887, of the skilful removal of two calculi, weighing together over four ounces, by the suprapubic route from an old man of seventy-two; and to em- phasize the fact that this operation, at the date (1887) mentioned, was the first suprapubic section done at St. Thomas’s Hospital since Cheselden