406 INJURIES OF BONES. recorded a number of additional cases of fracture from slight causes in persons affected with breast-cancer; in one the patient was a man aged 45, and the humerus on the diseased side gave way. Polaillon 1 gives two instances in which fracture occurred in femora affected with cancer, and one of fracture in a woman with cancer of the breast. A number of additional cases of so-called spontaneous fracture have been put upon record. Rosenthal2 mentions that a girl 18 years old, after a nap in a field, had pain in her right thigh and was unable to stand; there was found a transverse fracture in the lower third of the femur, which was put up in plaster of Paris, and united readily. Pan- tuikhoff3 saw a young soldier who had had rheumatic pains, and felt intense pain and a cracking in his right leg while at drill; a sim- ple transverse fracture of the tibia was detected; it united in a month’s time, but four days afterward the bone gave way again at the same point as he was going down a staircase. Humphry,,4 * gives the case of a woman aged 56, who had pain in the right thigh, and in whom the bone gave way in walking; a year later the same thing happened in the opposite limb; after her recov- ery she had pains in both arms, but nothing further was known of her. Humphry mentions also a case of fracture of the forearm in a child from convulsions in whooping-cough. Reference is made 3 to the case of a woman aged 26, who for eigh- teen months had had obscure pains in the upper third of her right arm; she was in the last month of her third pregnancy, when the bone gave way just “at the insertion of the pectoralis major and del- toid muscles.” There was still some mobility at the end of two months. Khlamoff thinks that this was perhaps a case of incipient osteomalacia. Poncet6 gives the history of a man aged 45, who had spontaneous fracture of the left femur; the bone had formerly been the seat of inflammation, which had, however, for sixteen years been apparently cured. Polaillon 7 mentions the case of a man aged 67, ataxic for several years, in whom the tibia gave way at its upper part during a slight movement; no union occurred, bedsores formed, and death ensued on the forty-second day. Intra-Uterine Fractures. On this subject an excellent paper has been published by Prof. J. H. Brinton,8 containing two new cases, and fifty-one collected from va- rious sources. Beck9 has recorded the case of a girl born with a. fracture of the leg united at a right angle, for which a successful osteotomy was performed when she was ten months old. In another instance, reported by Branfoot10 the mother had been for six weeks under treatment for acute articular rheumatism; her child was born dead, having fractures of both femora and of both bones of each leg; 1 Statistique et Observations de Chirurgie Hospitaliere, p. 289. 2 London Med. Recorder, July 15, 1886. 3 Ibid. 4 British Med. Journ., November 15, 1884. 6 London Med. Recorder, December 15, 1886. 6 Gaz. Hebdomadaire de Med. et de Chir., 20 Avril, 1888. 1 Op cit., p. 144. 8 Trans, of Am. Surgical Association, vol. ii., 1884. 9 Jahrbuch fur Kinderheilkunde, 1886. :0 British Med. Journal, January 21, 1888.