728 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. blood supply to the face may be temporarily obtained by digital com- pression of tlie common carotid arteries, or by acupressure of the trunks of the two facial arteries by means of acupressure pins or temporary ligatures, applied just before those vessels cross the lower margin of the jaw. It is stated that septic inflammations of the face spread with rapidity because the facial veins are unusually patent and free from valves, and communicate freely with the cavernous sinuses and internal jugular veins. The bones of the face are very vascular, and hence readily unite after incision or fracture, and only become necrotic under severe septic processes. They yield somewhat to pressure, and seem to regain their original contour if not subjected to too great displacement. Congen- ital absence of the nasal and other bones of the face is occasionally seen and must be remembered as a possible cause of facial deformity. Portions of tissue, osseous and soft, seemingly devitalized by injury, will often live and aid in the reconstruction of damaged areas; espe- cially is this true if heat and an aseptic condition are maintained by frequent irrigation with warm water (105° F.). Pieces of the lip, ear, chin, or nose, completely severed by accident, will occasionally become adherent and live if promptly adjusted with fine sutures and kept warm and free from septic germs. Doubtful tissue should not be sacrificed until its destruction by gangrene has been fully determined. These characteristics of the facial structures afford opportunity for much successful plastic and osteo-plastic surgery. Incisions made obliquely to the plane of the surface can be approxi- mated by fine sutures with greater accuracy than vertical cuts; and accidental wounds will at times leave less scarring if the contiguous edges are appropriately bevelled before the sutures are inserted. Fine catgut or silk makes the best suturing material; and a strip or two of gauze, held in position with collodion, the best dressing if the wound is aseptic. Catgut sometimes allows premature gaping of the edges because of its early absorption, and I am apt, therefore, to use fine sterile silk when I am especially anxious that the line of union shall be perfect. Drainage can be dispensed with in aseptic wounds. Atten- tion to these details is essential in doing artistic work upon the face. Non-absorbable sutures should be removed in from two to five days. When wounds of the cheek enter the mouth, it may be wise to approximate the mucous membrane by a special set of sutures intro- duced from the buccal surface. The cutaneous union can thus be kept more free from contamination by oral micro-organisms. In operation wounds of the cheeks and lips the mucous membrane should be left intact when possible. Drainage, when needed, should usually be made into the mouth, in order to prevent external scarring consequent upon delayed union. It has been proposed to unite wounds of the face by fine catgut sutures so inserted that the needle punctures are made on the cut edges of the true skin and not on the external surface, but this subcuticular method of suturing is unnecessary if oblique incisions and careful stitching are employed and if rapid union is thereby obtained. Operative procedures on the face must be undertaken with a due respect for the duct of the parotid gland, which, lying under the deep fascia, runs as far forward as the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, in a line from the middle of the lobe of the ear to a point midway be-