TERATOMATA. 239 omentum or some other part of the peritoneum. But beside the fact that dermoids do develop as we have seen in connection with the um- bilicus, it is impossible to explain the case of Spencer Wells, in which he found a dermoid cyst retroperitoneally in the mesentery, by any such theory. This cyst was of large size and extended deeply into the loin on each side of the vertebral column. Several cases of supposed dermoid cyst of the testicle have been re- ported, but Sutton says that he believes them to have been really of scrotal origin. More study is necessary before this question can be decided. Teratomata.—Often classified with dermoid cysts, but to my mind representing a different species of the same genus and more nearly allied to the true teratomata, are those solid tumors which are covered with true or altered skin, sometimes with hair growing from it, and of varying internal structure—usually fibrous, occasionally containing bone, cartilage, and other tissues (even striped muscular fibre, which is said never to occur in dermoid cysts), sometimes with a structure resembling that of the thyroid gland—and which are found chiefly in the neighborhood of the anus or coccyx, and of the pharynx. These tumors are nearly always in the mid-line of the body. In the pharynx they are often connected with the palate, and the hair growing from them marks them at once as of teratoid character (Otto). In connec- tion with the coccyx they have often been called thyroid-dermoids, sometimes congenital sarcomata. In this situation they have the struc- ture of the thyroid gland but they may also contain teeth. Somewhat similar tumors have been found within the rectum in the shape of more or less pedunculated growths, sometimes with very long hairs which annoy the patient by projecting from the anus, and more rarely con- taining teeth. Both of these varieties spring from the post-anal gut. These teratoid tumors have been successfully removed by operation from all the situations named. The other teratoid formations—true monsters by inclusion—have little or no surgical interest, and do not properly fall under the head of tumors. Odontomata.—The odontomata are tumors which originate from some tooth-germ which has gone astray and developed irregularly or out of place, and they should be included with the teratomata because of the similarity of their biological origin, differing from the dermoid cysts only in the later period in foetal life at which the aberrant germs are thrown off for development. In the brief account given of these curious tumors the classification and description will be taken from Sutton. Sutton separates odontomata according to the part of the dental tissues which give rise to them, some coming from the enamel-organ, some from the tooth-follicle, some from the papilla, and some from the entire tooth-germ. The enamel-organ odontomata are epithelial, and have been called by Eve multilocular cystic epithelial tumors of the jaws. They are alveo- lar in structure, and may be made up of masses of small cysts, the cavities of the latter, however, seldom exceeding two centimetres in diameter. The septa are fibrous or ossified, and the growing parts of