1004 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 1 Arcliiv fur Gyn., No. 44, 1893. haemostatic,and tends to prevent general peritoneal infection after a dirty operation, or in case of escape into the peritoneum of the contents of a cyst. In case of rupture, the immediate microscopic examination of the cyst contents will inform us whether or not the contents are sterile, and will thus help us in determining the necessity for drainage. In the gynecological clinic at the University Hospital the contents of all cysts or tumors which rupture in the abdomen during coeliotomy are immediately examined, and the subject of drainage is determined by the pathologist’s report in regard to their sterility. It is found that large numbers of tubal and ovarian tumors contain a fluid resembling in all gross appearances real pus, and yet contain no organisms capable of exciting peritonitis. A valuable paper in this connection has been published by Schauta.1 The directions for the after-treatment of a woman upon whom there has been done the operation of coeliotomy, which are followed in the University and Gynsecean Hospitals of Philadelphia, are:— No water or food is to be given to the patient for the first twenty-four hours after the operation. Women always suffer greatly with thirst after coeliotomy, but this can be relieved by wiping the lips and tongue with a wet napkin or with a piece of ice wrapped in a thin cloth. Hot water or soda water may be given in small quantities, two teaspoonfuls every hour, and gradually increased, after the first twenty-four hours. Hot water is preferable to cold. The patient must lie upon her back for the first forty-eight hours. She can be made more comfortable by slipping a folded sheet under the hollow of the back, or by drawing up the knees and placing a pillow under them. The patient should not move her body or draw up her legs herself; the nurse must do this for her. The patient should be encouraged to pass her water voluntarily. If she cannot do so she should be catheterized about eight hours after the operation, using an aseptic soft rubber catheter, and cleansing the external meatus before passing the instrument. If necessary, the urine should be drawn every six or eight hours. No food should be administered for the first forty-eight hours. At the end of this time the patient may have any easily digested food which she wishes, such as buttermilk, soup, beef tea, milk, milk and lime water, soft-boiled eggs, etc. If there is no abdominal distention the bowels need not be moved until the third day after the operation. On the morning of the third day half a drachm of Rochelle salt should be given in half a glass of soda water every hour until the bowels are moved. This result may be hastened by an enema of soap and water administered as soon as the patient feels the inclination to have a movement. If the Rochelle salt cannot be retained, one grain of calomel may be given in powder every hour for six or eight hours, and then followed by an enema. Little or no nourishment should be given while administering the purgatives, since the combination may cause vomiting. If a glass drainage-tube is used it must be cleaned by the nurse as often as the surgeon directs. Every time before cleaning the tube the nurse must wash her hands with soap and water, and with bichloride solution (1-2000), as carefully as before the opera- tion. The syringe must be washed inside and out with hot water and bichloride solution immediately before and after each cleaning of the tube. The syringe may be kept wrapped in a towel wet with bichloride solution. The rubber dam must be clean and dry. Fresh sterilized cotton must be placed over tbe mouth of the tube after each cleaning.