328 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. times they show an umbilicated appearance, resembling the condition found in varicella. For the most part they are found occupying the face, but may be seen in remote regions, such as the neck and genitalia, and in rare instances are scattered over the entire body in small or large numbers. They are of slow growth. Their course is chronic, although they may disappear spontaneously. They are usually unaccompanied by any sensation of the part, except when they are accidentally the seat of inflammation, by which they are often destroyed. Although usually observed in children, they may be found among those of adult life. Expressing the contents of one of these little tumors, we find a some- what thickened, white, opaque and cream-like material, the sac remain- ing hollow and flaccid. They have thus a resemblance to the ordinary sebaceous cyst, although the contents do not have the yellowish appear- ance of the material within the latter, nor do they have the characters of disordered sebum. Examined microscopically and chemically, we find neither fat, choles- terin, epithelial scales, nor earthy salts, but the creamy material is found to be composed of an oval transparent structure, having a pink- ish lustre and without a nucleus. In fact, in these little bodies we see the molluscum corpuscles which have so often been described. These bodies, first recognized by Wilson in 1812, were well described by him. They were subsequently rediscovered at the Hopital Saint Louis, being at this time described as cryptogamic spores, and believed to be the source of the contagion. This view, according to the ob- servations of Pye-Smith, is incorrect, because their size, appearance, and reaction to potassa, with their inability to undergo development, contradict such a supposition. Pye-Smith believes them to be epidermic cells which have undergone hyaline transformation. In most cases a certain amount of sebaceous substance is found in these tumors, but in other instances this is entirely wanting. Upon examination of a horizontal section the structure is found to be com- posed of several lobules, and in some cases we see a central cavity which somewhat resembles a sebaceous gland. Whether the cysts originate in the sebaceous glands, or whether their metamorphic cells arise from the lining of the acini, is a matter of doubt. Virchow believes that the tumor is a new growth which is en- tirely confined to the deeper cells of the epidermis, and that there is no connection with the sebaceous glands. The earlier view seems to be the more correct one, and Sangster in his observations has entirely con- firmed it. Within a short time Darier, followed by others, has claimed that the element of contagion lies not in a bacterium or fungus, but in a “ psorosperm,” but this fact is not evident in all the specimens examined, although in some instances it certainly looks as if the cells were attacked by parasites. But we should have more confirmatory evidence of their existence before accepting this theory altogether. Treatment.—One means of treating these tumors, when they are per- vious, is by forcibly pressing the opposite sides and thus expressing their contents; the bleeding that often follows this mode of treatment is very slight. When the cysts are entirely closed, and when they are small, sulphur ointment often gives good results; and when larger they may be scooped out with the dermal curette, or removed by means of curved