400 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF BURSiE. Many authors, as Berard, Roux, Massot, and others, have related cases where bursae were developed beneath malignant growths, such as scirrhus of the mamma, sarcoma of the axilla, etc. Broca reports the existence of a bursa upon the inner side of the labium majus, toward its anterior extremity, which, if attacked by suppurative inflammation, gives rise to an abscess differing from those arising in cysts of the vulva or of the vulvo-vaginal gland. So with the submucous hygroma of the anterior portion of the nasal septum, the disease arises in the bursal sac sometimes found here. Chassaignac has also contended that certain marginal anal abscesses originate in the small submucous bursae not uncommonly present in the anal region. Tumors of Burs.®. Exostosis Bursata.—-This rare condition was first described by Bill- roth in 1863. The abstracts of two cases which follow, give briefly all in the way of pathology, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment which has not been previously given when speaking of bursal diseases in a general way. Rindfleisch contended that this condition had arisen by the growth of an ecchondrosis from the articular cartilage, pushing ahead of it a portion of the articular synovial membrane, the opening into the joint cavity subsequent^ becoming obliterated. The case re- ported by Fehleisen to the 14tli Congress of the Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Chirurgie, held in Berlin in 1885, with cases observed respectively by Volkmann and Erliardt, prove that these growths cannot arise from the epiphyseal cartilages, while the absence of any communication with the knee-joint is regarded by Fehleisen as proving that exostosis bursata cannot arise from the articular cartilage. Fehleisen believes that these growths originate from relics of misplaced foetal cartilage—in fact, are teratomata of the knee-joint—-but Volkmann has pointed out that he has found numerous free cartilages in a case of pseudarthrosis of the femur, and considers that these bursal exostoses arise either from the epiphyseal or articular cartilage according to whether they are within or without the joint. I can see no reason for these recondite theories. Growths from bone may conform to any of the types of the connective tissues: bone, fibrous tissue, cartilage, etc.; certain cases of pseud- arthrosis show a cartilaginous coating on the ends of the fragments —nay further, as Volkmann has shown, free cartilages may be present— so that the simplest explanation of exostosis bursata would appear to be that a bony outgrowth, initiated by some irritation or injury, re- mains partly cartilaginous on its surface, and that over this an adven- titious bursa forms with unusually developed fringes, which, undergoing hypertrophy' and becoming detached, are then the free cartilages com- mon in this affection. Case I.—Fehleisen’s case, already mentioned, occurred in Bergmann’s clinic in the person of a man, aged 43, in whom a painless tumor gradually developed upon the outer side of the left femur until it reached the size of an infant’s head. By relaxing the outer portion of the extensor cruris, beneath which the tumor lay, distinct fluctuation was readily detected; in addition, a fixed tumor and several free bodies were recognized. An incision gave exit to much thick, tenacious fluid and 48 free bodies. The adherent capsule was dissected out, no opening