PHLEBITIS. 355 at the injured point, adhering tightly to the vessel-wall and to each other. Sooner or later the leucocytes also take part in this accumula- tion, provided that the force of the current is not sufficient to carry them away; and red corpuscles may also he imprisoned in the mass, in case the conditions of the current are favorable. The accumulated blood-plates are said to undergo a change of consis- tency at the time that they attach themselves to the seat of injury (Fig. 1609); they become very adhesive (the viscous metamorphosis and conglutination of Eberth), and undergo a fine granular change, after Fig. 1609. Stagnation of Blood-Current. A, Red hyaline thrombus; B, communication with vessel in which current continues; a, blood-plates. CEberth and Scliimmelbuseh.) which they appear split up into fine threads; and, possibly, are after' ward transformed into hyaline substance (Aschoff). Simultaneously with the appearance of leucocytes, fibrin is seen in the clot; but whether this fibrin-formation is due to the blood-plates alone, or to the presence of the leucocytes, has not yet been satisfac- torily established. The theory of A. Schmidt, referred to in Yol. III., p. 327, has of late years become somewhat modified in consequence of the general acceptance of the above views. The fibrin-ferment, the liberation of which is believed to precipitate the coagu- lation of the blood, is said to emanate from the blood-plates at the time when they become massed together; although some authors (Hauser) hold that any living cell may set free fibrin-ferment on its disintegration. Again, Gurber has shown that it is not necessary that leucocytes should perish in order that fibrin be formed; and Mosen has demonstrated that masses of pure plates collected from the blood lay centrifugation, when coagulated, present unmistakable fibrin-forma- tion. Salvioli, indeed, maintains, that by extraction of all blood-plates from a living animal (which he achieves by repeated blood-letting and re-infusion) coagulation of the blood is rendered impossible. On the other hand Pekelharing and Lilienfeld, who have studied the chemical aspect of coagulation of blood, still hold the leucocytes principally responsible for the formation of fibrin-ferment. The former found that fibrin-ferment was an organic calcium-compound (calcium-nucleol albumin) which was formed, most generally, when leucocytes were destroyed. The latter considers the nuclei of the leucocytes to be composed of leuco-nuclein and liiston (a kind of peptone). Nuclein (a protein containing phosphorus) causes coagulation; liiston prevents it. But calcium chloride combines with liiston, setting nuclein free, and thus causes coagulation. Lilienfeld, moreover, regards the blood-plates as identical with the nuclei of the leucocytes, set free by karyoschisis. If corroborated, these theories will explain many incongruous tenets in vogue at the present time. Conformably with this description of the formation of a white throm- bus, the microscopical examination of a clot reveals a ramified frame- structure resembling a (red) coral-growtli, composed of accumulated