831 ANATOMY OF THE BREAST. tween the layers of the pectoral fascia. In order, therefore, to remove all the parenchyma, the retro-mammary tissue and pectoral fascia as well as the breast must be carefully dissected off the muscle. Beyond the limits of the parenchyma the stroma of the peripheral processes becomes directly continuous with the con- nective-tissue framework of the circum-mammary fat.” . . . “The surgical anatomy of the mamma would not be complete without a reference to the retro-mammary tissue and pectoral fascia; indeed, from the surgeon’s point of view these structures are no less important than the breast itself, and should be looked upon as part of it. In spare women the corpus mamms is separated from the subjacent muscles by a thin layer of loosely arranged, delicate connective tissue rich in elastic fibres; the deeper layers are more closely packed to constitute the pectoral fascia proper, which is very thin and gives off processes which penetrate between the fasciculi of the pectoral muscle. The presence in this retro-mammary tissue and pectoral fascia of out- lying lobules of the parenchyma has already been referred to. No separation can be made with the knife through this loose areolar tissue without the risk of leav- ing behind lobules of parenchyma. In obese subjects the retro-mammary tissue is laden with fat, which forms a thick layer separating the corpus mammae from the subjacent muscles. The fascia in such cases is so thin as scarcely to be recognized.” The course of the lymphatic vessels is of great importance. The evi- dence upon which our knowledge of the anatomical distribution rests is largely clinical. The main lymph current which sets toward the axilla along the border of the pectoralis major corresponds closely with the course of the arterial supply. Other instances show that lymph drainage extends through the space between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, or directly into the chest through the intercostal spaces; while the immediate communication with the lymphatics of the skin is shown by the frequent occurrence of rapid and extensive superficial invasion known as “ carcinome en cuirasse.” Stiles 1 looks upon the mammary lymphatic system as consisting of five sets of vessels which communicate freely with one another:—• “ (1) A superficial or cutaueous set, including those of the nipple, areola and surrounding skin; (2) the sub-areolar plexus of Sappey; (3) intra-mammary lymphatics; (4) lymphatics of the circum-mammary fat; (5) retro-mammary lymphatics. “ The lymphatics from the inner part of the mamma accompany the perforating branches of the internal mammary artery to join the sternal glands placed along its trunk. The greater number, however, accompany the mammary branches of the acromio-thoracic, long thoracic, and external mammary branches of the axillary artery to open into the axillary glands. As many as twenty, thirty, or even more may not infrequently be counted when the axilla has been thoroughly cleared out. The reasons for the anatomical underestimation of the number of glands in the axilla are, that some measure not more than one or two millimetres in diameter, while others have undergone such an extensive fatty involution as to resemble closely an ordinary fat lobule.” W. Roger Williams2 regards the mamma as the homologue of a single sebaceous gland. Polymastism in the human subject occurs in certain definite positions, and corresponds almost invariably with the mammae of polymastic animals. He has found in fifty cases of fibro- adenoma of the mammary region that seven (14 per cent.) had origi- 1 Loc. cit. 2 Jour. Anat. and Pliys., vol. xxv., pp. 225-304.