EXCISIONS AND RESECTIONS. 530 fatal, by Swaine and Wood; and two undetermined, by Blair and Jes- sett. The whole 20 cases have therefore given 13 recoveries, 5 deaths, and 2 uncertain results, a death-rate for determined cases of 27.7 per cent. Shoulder-Joint.—My personal experience with shoulder joint exci- sion now embraces nine cases, as shown in the annexed table, all the patients having recovered from the operation, though one, who was affected with general tuberculosis, died of phthisis three months afterward. The functional results have likewise been satisfactory, and, upon the whole, removal of the head of the humerus, though less fre- quently demanded in civil than in military practice, must be considered a valuable resource in cases of destructive disease of this articulation. Table of Nine Cases of Excision of the Shoulder. No. Sex, age, and date. Nature of affection for which operation was required. Result. Remarks. 1 Male,. 30, 1883 Suppurative arthritis Recovered Useful arm. LMiversity Hospital. See Vol. iii., page 587. 2 Male, adult, 1884 Caries do. Useful arm. University Hospital. .3 Female, adult, 1884 Necrosis of humerus do. Remainder of humerus subsequently removed. Useful arm. University Hospital. 4 Female, old, 1887 Caries do. Sinuses persisted. Uni- versity Hospital. 5 Male, adult, 1888 Suppurative arthritis do. Useful arm. University Hospital. 6 Male, 12, 1888 Necrosis of humerus do. Sinuses persisted. Chil- dren's Hospital. 7 Male, adult, 1889 Caries do. Useful arm. University Hospital. 8 Male, adult, 1891 Caries do. General tuberculosis. Uni- versity Hospital. 9 Male, adult, 1895 Caries do. Under treatment. Uni- versity Hospital. Shaft of Humerus.—In a case of acute necrosis of the humerus, occurring in a woman, I removed the head and upper portion of the bone, and some weeks afterward, the disease recurring in the remainder, excised the lower portion, the two operations taking away the whole length of the bone, from shoulder to elbow. The muscles of the upper arm became markedly shortened, and the power of raising the arm was to a great extent lost, but the use of the hand and forearm was preserved, and the patient was able to pursue her occupation as a sempstress. I have also resected the humerus in several additional cases of ununited fracture, with a fair measure of success. Elbow7-Joint.—To the ten cases of elbow-joint excision tabulated in Vol. III., page 596, I can now add eighteen, with only two deaths— one from tuberculosis subsequent to consecutive amputation, and one from traumatic gangrene; in this case, as in tvro successful operations for necrosis, partial excision was resorted to. In a third case, the pa- tient died after recovery, from abscess of the brain following middle-