399 ANOMALOUS BURSAL were grumous pus, and Malassez proved by a microscopic examination of a fragment of the cyst-wall its tubercular nature. I have had a case which I believe to be identical with this, but microscopic evidence is lacking. It was operated upon in my presence and at my request, by my assistant, Dr. Darling. Reclus relates the history of an abscess of the subcutaneous bursa over the external malleolus, and believes that certain cold abscesses of the buttock, which are commonly supposed to be of osseous origin, arise in the large serous bursae of this region. Demurs reports an interesting case of tuberculosis of the bursae beneath the semitendinosus, sartorius, and gracilis tendons (“patte d'oie”), which was at first believed to be a gumma, but which on punc- ture gave vent only to a yellowish fluid. Palpation now detected crepi- tation, resulting from the presence of rice-seed bodies, and upon this symptom a diagnosis of tubercular bursitis was founded. Incision con- firmed this opinion, the cavity was scraped, and eight days afterwards a cold abscess was discovered amid the muscles of the forearm. Haemoptysis promptly supervened, and in twenty-five days the patient was dead. Bursitis with Riziform Bodies.1—Nicaise, Poulet, and Vaillard studied the case of a very large bursal tumor of the right thigh, crammed with rice-like bodies to the exclusion of all fluid, in which they for the first time demonstrated the presence of tubercular nodules, con- taining Koch's bacillus, etc. The tumor followed a blow, was sub-apo- neurotic, and gave a sensation of pseudo-fluctuation, making the ob- server think of that given by a myxo-sarcoma. The same authors report a similar case affecting the bursa over the external malleolus. Probably some of the cases of chronic bursitis described by Volkmann and Fischer, the bursa being lined with a fibrinous coating and often containing numerous melon-seed bodies, were in reality tuberculous. Diagnosis.—Tubercular bursitis can only be confounded with tertiary syphilitic or simple chronic bursitis, and the peculiarities of the affection given in the histories of the cases here related, together with what has been or will be said of the other conditions, should suffice for the dis- crimination. Treatment.—Total ablation, when possible, should always be adopted. If too diffused for a clean dissection, free curetting, irrigation with iodine water, and rubbing into the tissues of iodoform, should be em- ployed, never hesitating to promptly repeat these procedures should any relapse manifest itself.2 Anomalous Bursje. Chassaignac has described a rare condition under the name of “ lipo- matous hygroma of the nape of the neck,” where a bossellated tumor, composed of fatty tissue with a central cavity, has been met with by him in individuals who carried burdens resting habitually or frequently upon this portion of the body. ’ These are not identical with those described as occurring in chronic bursitis, the latter not being tubercular, as will be seen by consulting the article in Yol. III. 2 1 am much indebted for many of the foregoing facts to the article by M. Lejars on Dis- eases and Injuries of the Bursae ; Duplay et Reclus, Traite de Chirurgie, tome i., Paris, 1890.