274 TUMORS. stroma. These tumors are usually found in adult life and in females— thirteen in women to three in men. According to Gurlt’s statistics, of 1377 cases of epithelioma nearly seventy per cent, occurred on the face. The next most frequent situa- tions were the female genitals, only seven per cent.; the tongue, less than six per cent. ; the jaws, four per cent. ; and the male genitals, three and six-tenths per cent. The epitheliomata formed 40.23 per cent, of the epithelial malignant growths. Carcinoma of the /ace, excluding only that of the lips, occurs from twenty years upward; indeed, Williams mentions one case of rodent ulcer in a girl at fourteen years of age. The proportion of males to females is about three to two. In the superficial form of epithelioma, known as rodent ulcer, the disease sometimes runs a very slow course, even twenty-five or thirty years in duration. Bonde, from a study of one hundred and twelve cases, gives the most common location of the disease as the nose, thirty-six per cent., twent}7-eight per cent, occur- ring on the cheek, and eleven per cent, on the eyelids; while Williams, in twenty-six cases of rodent ulcer alone, found the neoplasm situated on the nose in seventy-three per cent., there being only two cases each on the cheek and eyelid, and one each on the forehead, temple, and upper lip. Epithelioma of the extremities is among the rarer forms of malignant disease, and it is only recently that any attempt has been made to study its well-marked characteristics. Of all epitheliomata of the skin, those on the extremities are as a rule the most benign, and yet some of them are very malignant. Volkmann, who first systematically studied these cases, divided them into three classes: (l) Those which originated from irritation of some sort, such as ulcers, fistulse, local skin lesions; (2) those which originated from warts, nsevi, etc., subdividing these again into two varieties, according as the wart or nsevus was of congenital origin, or appeared later in life; and (3) those arising from appar- ently healthy skin without known cause. Those of the first class are the Fig. 1600. least malignant of cancer- ous growths, spreading very slowly, infecting the glands very late, and not tending to return when thoroughly removed. They may originate from scars, ulcers of the leg, callosities, corns, subungual suppurat- ing surfaces, chronic ecze- ma, setons, lupus, and bone fistulae. Only two cases of internal metastasis were found in the more than ninety cases of this kind which Volkmann collected. He suggests that the slow infection of the lymphatics may be due to the common cica- tricial alteration and slight vascularity of the surrounding tissues, contrasting it with the rapid infection which takes place in opposite conditions around tumors accompanied by inflammatory reaction and congestion, as seen in tumors near the mouth, penis, and groin. Epithelioma of Hand in a Man Forty-nine Years of Age. Tumor had grown slowly for six years and then increased rapidly for three months. Motion of Angers not affected. (From a photograph.)