INFLAMMATION. 18 These products attract the phagocytes, retaining them in the tissues, and prevent their migration toward the menaced points, while, in a normal condition, the phagocytes travel toward these points by reason of their chemiotactic power; second, the leucocytes are repulsed from the regions invaded by the pathogenic bacteria, by reason of the presence of products that exercise upon them a negative chemiotactic power; and third, anaesthetics facilitate or aggravate infection by suppressing the irritability of the phagocytes. Muscular Phagocytosis and Parenchymatous Inflammation. Another and very important contribution to the subject of inflam- mation in general is made by Metchnikoff and Soudakewitch 1 in the result of their work upon Muscular Phagocytosis, which is a partial study of Parenchymatous Inflammation. In this discussion they raise the question at the very first: Are the leucocytes the sole agents capable of producing phagocytosis? Even if their role does preponderate when the destruction of bacteria introduced into the organism is concerned, it does not follow that they alone in every case have the power of producing the disappearance of certain elements that are foreign, or have become useless to the econ- omy. Metchnikoff has studied the mechanism by which the tails of tadpoles are thrown off when they become adults. Looss and Bataillon had already gone over the problem, and had concluded that the muscu- lar fibres were dissolved in the ambient fluid, and that the leucocytes had nothing to do with it. These results would of course weaken very seriously the phagocytic theory, provided that they were exact; but according to Metchnikoff they are very far from being entirely so. He recognizes, it is true, that the white corpuscles take no part in the dis- appearance of the contractile substance, but this latter does not dissolve purely and simply in the intercellular fluid, and other elements than the leucocytes are concerned in englobing and digesting it. In a mus- cular fibre there is a peripheral part that is non-striated, made up of amorphous and very finely granular protoplasm. It is usually found in the shape of a band or layer placed immediately within the myo- lemma about the nuclei. This protoplasm, to which is given the special name of sarcoplasm, is possessed of very great vitality, and is also pos- sessed of very marked amoeboid movements, and it is to this substance that is ascribed the part of absorbing the striated material near which it is placed, and of producing its dissolution. Some time before the metamorphosis of the animal (the tadpole), the nuclei multiply and produce, within the sarcoplasm, special cells. The muscular phagocytes which send amoeboid prolongations between the different bundles sep- arate them and break up the fibrillte; by their action, these are also broken into fragments which are more and more separated and end by being absorbed. Therefore, although the results of Looss and Bataillon are exact as far as the non-intervention of the white globules is con- cerned, they are not exact as to denying the existence of phagocytic phenomena. These last are, on the contrary, very active, but their ’Ann. de l'lnst. Past., Janv., 1892.