925 SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS. in this country and in Europe, for brilliant surgery, than tha* of any other gentleman west of Philadelphia. Three of these searches had been made under chloroform or ether; one had been so severe that the urethra had been lacerated and urinary infiltration had followed, with sloughing, and when the patient came to me the floor of the urethra at the peno-scrotal angle was gone for the distance of nearly an inch, yet no one, among all these surgeons, had been able to detect a stone. I placed this patient upon the lounge, introduced the steel searcher, and detected a stone in a period not exceeding five seconds; and this stone I afterward removed by suprapubic section, and have it now in my cabinet. It is as large as a goose's egg and the patient is a well man. Therefore it cannot be too urgently insisted upon that in every case of obscure vesical disease, search for stone should be made. Outside of the means commonly accepted, and notably the lithola- paxy washing bottle and small tube, which is still a very efficient means of finding small stones and fragments, two improved methods of detecting stone should be alluded to here: one of them an improved searcher, and the other the cystoscope. The newest searcher offered to the public is that of Sir Henry Thompson, which is represented in the accompanying figure. The Fig. 1742. Thompson’s Searcher for Stone. points of advantage which it possesses over the old searcher- points which I think are verified in its use—are the following: It is solid, and therefore aseptic; the tube instead of being bulbous is flat- tened laterally, which gives a larger metallic surface to impinge upon the foreign body for a given calibre of shaft; the corrugated cylinder in the handle is rough and nicely balanced upon the instrument, so that the movements of rotation can be made to sweep the tip of the instru- ment evenly over the whole field of operation at any given rate of speed; finally, the flat handle is roughly corrugated upon one side so that it may be firmly grasped, and this allows the surgeon suddenly to lap the instrument over a large arc of a circle, in making a sudden blow for the purpose of eliciting a click when a supposed foreign body has been found. The cystoscope needs no description here; its value can hardly be overestimated in expert hands in any doubtful case. Upon this point—namely, a doubtful case—it is fair to assert that it is hardly possible for a surgeon of any reasonable amount of experience at this day and date to mistake anything else in the bladder for a stone; and that for a patient to be cut for stone and none be found, in the present state of our knowledge, would be a very disgraceful circum- stance, although this error is known to have occurred in the hands of the masters of surgery in former days. The only thing that could possibly be mistaken for a stone is an incrustation of urinary crystals upon an ulcerated surface of some sort within the bladder, and any one who has felt such a roughened surface once will undoubtedly recognize