INFECTIOUS OSTEOMYELITIS. 459 lateral openings which may be used for the injection. The openings made in the bone in such cases must he numerous. They may be made at distances of about an inch, and the trephine or perforator should be carried forward until it meets no resistance, showing that the medullary cavity has been reached. Ullmann believes that it is better to make these incisions too early than to risk postponing them too long, and prefers this mode of treatment to large and long openings with the chisel. If only the diaphysis is diseased, it may be removed entire. The fear of a subsequent defect in the bone need not deter the operator; because the process of repair is, in many cases, remarkable. When the disease affects the epiphysis, amputation is probably the best treat- ment, because saving the limb without the epiphysis and its connecting cartilage, results in deformity due to interrupted growth, which is as serious as the loss of the member. When osteomyelitis affects the joints, these must be opened and the infective material thoroughly removed by excision, evidement, or resection. In other respects, the treatment pf osteomyelitis is what would be suggested by general surgical principles; but I would lay stress upon the importance, in these cases, of considering, besides the purely surgical aspects of the case, the medical conditions presented, and the careful and continuous scru- tiny of all the important organs of the body, with the use of every measure available to maintain the strength and vital force of the patient. In the interesting paper by C. Garre, referred to above,1 he describes what he regards as peculiar forms of acute infectious osteomyelitis. Among these, he includes what is in this work described by Poncet as periostitis albuminosa. This disease is so rare that Garre, examin- ing the literature of the subject, found only 26 cases in all. Schlange, after the study of 15 cases, concluded that it was a form of infectious osteomyelitis, and in one case which he observed, he found the specific micro-organism of that disease. Garre describes two, likewise, in which he found the staphylococcus. In one case the disease was recurrent; in the other it was acute and primary. In both cases the exudate was characteristic of so-called albuminous periostitis. In the first case, cul- tivation produced the characteristic staphylococcus pyogenes aureus; and in the second, this form together with the staphylococcus pyo- genes albus. Garre accounts for the presence of the albuminous fluid in so-called albuminous periostitis upon the supposition that there has previously been a purulent collection which has undergone mucoid de- generation, or that a small quantity of pus is mingled with a rela- tively large quantity of transuded serum or lymph. In addition to the preceding, there is a subacute form of infectious osteomyelitis, which is sometimes difficult to recognize. Garre points out the fact that there may be, at two different points in the same in- dividual, a rapidly progressing osteomyelitis and a chronic subacute variety. In such a case, in a boy 15 years old, the diagnosis depended partly on culture experiments; and their results indicated the careful- ness with which such experiments must be conducted, and the danger of drawing hasty conclusions from them. In this case, the inoculation 1 Einige seltene Erscheinungsformen der akuten infektiosen Osteomyelitis. Festschrift zum 25ten Jubilaum von Theodor Kocher. Wiesbaden, 1891.