31 BACTERIA CAUSING INFLAMMATION. these abscesses was their quiet development; in fact, they behaved like “ cold” abscesses. The pus was very thick, yellow, and odorless; there was little tendency toward diffusion, each collection tending rather to become encysted. The rapidity with which each disappeared after being opened by the thermo-cautery was remarkable. Of course such an instance is but one of hundreds that could be quoted, but it well illustrates the difficulties of the problem of definite etiology. Again, the fact that the exact separation of the different varieties of bacteria concerned in inflammation is not yet made, is shown by all the work done to differentiate or identify two organisms, the Streptococcus Erysipelatis, and the Streptococcus Pyogenes. The latest experiments in this direction are those in the Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie u. s. w. (No. 24, 1892), where it is said that the question of the identity of the micrococci occurring in chains in suppuration, and those of erysipelas, has been settled in different ways, according as the observer is governed by their resemblance in size and be- havior toward staining reagents and culture media, or by the difference in their pathogenic effects. Baumgarten relies upon the first hypo- thesis—their identity—which rests upon an observation of E. Frankel, who succeeded in producing an erysipelatous inflammation of the ear of a rabbit with the micrococcus in chains, cultivated from a peritoneal exudation. C. Frankel remarks upon this, that the only further point needed to show the identity of the two bacteria depends upon the pro- duction of erysipelas in man by the pyogenic streptococcus. Kirschner brings to support this theory an observation upon a patient who was attacked simultaneously with amygdalitis and erysipelas; an observation that had the value to his mind of an inoculation experi- ment. The person upon whom he made the observation was affected with phthisis, and after having received an injection of tuberculin, was on the following day attacked with tonsillitis, with a whitish exu- dation containing numerous streptococci, but no bacilli of diphtheria. Bacteriological examination showed these organisms to be the strepto- cocci pyogenes. Although the tonsils did not become worse, the tem- perature rose to 40° C., and this persistence of the general symptoms was attended by an erysipelatous blush, which appeared on the bridge of the nose, and extended from thence over the cheeks to the ears and to the neck, receding after four or five days. Bacteriological exami- nation of the erysipelatous vesicles showed the presence of many micro- cocci in chains, which were well-developed. Must it be admitted that the streptococcus of erysipelas produced the erysipelas, and the strepto- coccus pyogenes the tonsillitis—two different species of micro-organism producing two different affections in the same person;-—nr is it more probable that it was the same organism which by travelling produced the suppuration of the tonsils and of the vesicles? They were abso- lutely similar as far as their form and reaction went, and it is therefore probable that the streptococcus pyogenes can produce different affec- tions according to the degree of its virulence. From what has been said in the preceding pages, we are able to conclude that inflammation as occurring in man is, in most cases, a reactionary process against the invasion of bacteria; that these bacteria are of many varieties; that their activity in the production of the inflammatory processes is the result of the production of new toxic