565 TREPHINING. Osteoplastic Resection of the Cranium.—Defects left by injury or disease may be repaired by removal of the cicatrix, freshening the bone edges, and transplanting, from the contiguous parts, a properly shaped flap consisting of skin, periosteum, and the outer table of the skull; the wound left by removal of the flap may be covered with skin- grafts after Thiersch’s method.1 Mortality after Trephining. — Wagner and Seydel give statistics showing that by an immediate resort to trephining the mortality varies from 1.23 per cent2 for recent accidents, to 1.6 per cent.3 for epilepsy, brain tumors, etc.; when compound fractures are not operated upon until after the lapse of twenty-four hours, or more, the mortality rises to 33.33 per cent. Indications for Trephining.—In compound fractures, the surgeon should always operate, not for compression, but in order to disinfect. This can only be properly done by elevation of fragments, or even their removal, to admit of paring with a chisel to get rid of dirt, and of free antiseptic irrigation. The slightest fissure,4 as by imprisoning a hair, has been the starting-point of sepsis; so that where there is the slightest doubt, all cracks should be carefully chiselled out and thoroughly disinfected. Lacerations of the dura mater should be re- paired by suture. The form of flap must depend somewhat upon the original wound, but it should be large, to repress any tendency to hernia cerebri. Should simple fractures be trephined? Bearing in mind the imme- diate risks of encephalitis, and the future ones of epilepsy and insanity, there can be but one opinion as to the advisability of operating for all varieties of accessible fracture. An exploratory incision, made with strict antiseptic precautions, will resolve any doubt in cases of head-injury, and if no bone lesion be found will heal promptly, adding nothing to the risks. Trephining in Fractures of the Base.—When accessible these should receive the same treatment, the chief objects of operation being disinfection and drainage,5 and but rarely elevation of fragments.6 After-Treatment of Trephining.—Liquid diet is to be recom- mended for the first three days, but this is often productive of furred tongue with an unpleasant condition of the mouth; the use of a tooth- brush wet with a saturated solution of chlorate of potassium will usu- ally give relief. In comparatively slight cases of operation, for epi- lepsy, etc., the patient may get up in a week, and be allowed solid food as soon as he desires it, while in more severe cases, especially where much bone has been removed, and particularly where the brain has been compromised, he should not get up until some time in the third week. 1 Schonborn, J. Wolf. Verhandl. der Deutsch. Gesellsch. fur Chirurg., XX. Congress, 1891. W. Wagner (Konigslnitte). Volkmann’s Samndung klinischer Vortrage, Nos. 271, 272; Chirurg. No. 85, 20 April, 188C. 3 Antiseptik und Trepanation, von K. Seydel. Miinchen, 1886. 4 See author’s case reported to Phila. Co. Med. Society, May 8, 1889. 5 See Allis, Annals of Surgery, vol. x. Warren, Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences, vol. xcix. 6 See article in Vol. V. for case where this was necessary.