306 VENEREAL DISEASES: GONORRHCEA. found to be thickened, deep red in color, and covered with an abundant muco-purulent or purulent secretion. The orifices of the mucous folli- cles appear as deeply injected, slightly elevated spots. Epithelial ero- sions and sometimes areas of genuine ulceration are present. The pro- cess begins in the fossa navicularis and gradually extends downward, reaching the bulbo-membranous junction about the twentieth day. When the wandering leucocytes have succeeded in removing the micro- organisms from the sub-epithelial tissue, the symptoms begin to subside. The hyperaemia diminishes, the sub-epithelial round-cell infiltration is absorbed, the erosions and ulcerations receive a new cellular covering, and the disease is at an end. Resolution takes place more slowly in the glands, which often continue to secrete pus long after the process has ceased in other portions of the mucous membrane. Posterior Urethritis. In many cases, either with or without the complications of the sec- ond stage, the disease will pass into the third or subsiding stage. In others, however, the inflammation, previously confined to the pendu- lous urethra, extends backward so as to involve that portion of the ure- thra between the bulbo-membranous region and the bladder. The compressor urethrae muscle may act as a bar to this backward exten- sion, but it is thought that a more rational explanation of the not in- frequent escape of this region is to be found in the fact that the mem- branous urethra is less vascular and less richly supplied with glands and follicles than other portions of the canal. It hence offers a less favorable ground for the development of micro-organisms. The symp- toms of this accident are those associated with the accompanying pros- tato-cystitis. The complications are inflammations of Cowper’s glands, of the prostate, and of the bladder. Abortive Treatment of Gonorrhoea. The increasing evidence in favor of the view that the gonococcus is the chief cause of gonorrhoea would naturally lead one to anticipate much benefit from the employment of antiseptics both as abortive and as curative agents. The latter question will be considered elsewhere. As to their efficacy in aborting the disease, there is thus far not much clinical evidence that is encouraging. Unfortunately, the results of culture experiments and of the influence of parasiticides upon gonococci external to the body do not afford satisfactory evidence as to the effect of the same agents when applied to the same germs embedded in the depths of an inflamed urethral mucous membrane. Bumm’s investi- gations appear to show that, at first, these multiply by preference in the papillary layer, and find their way to the surface only during the latter part of the purulent, and during the subsiding (or muco-puru- lent) stage, and Finger uses this as a theoretical argument against the. early administration of either astringents or antiseptics. Enough is known, however, to enable us to state with certainty that the agents which are effectual against the microbes of suppuration are not equally