WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 115 carried in, and the securing as completely as may be possible of a non- septic condition of tlie damaged parts. On tlie other hand, the chances of recovery are diminished on account of (1) the shock necessarily attending exploration and closure, especially if the search be a pro- longed one; (2) the opening up of wounds already spontaneously closed; (3) the breaking down of protective -adhesions that may have formed with the external wall of the abdomen, an adjacent viscus, or the omen- tum—adhesions that may and at times do rapidly form. Not seldom one of the major difficulties encountered is in the deter- mination of the fact of penetration. It is now known that the safest and best method of ascertaining whether or not the bullet has entered the cavity, is by opening up the wound in the wall. Senn, in 1888, introduced hydrogen-gas insufflation, but experience has shown that this test cannot be relied upon, since fecal accumulation may prevent the passage of the gas through the bowel, while adhesion, omental or other, to the internal wound of the abdominal wall, may prevent its escape externally. Further, in the use of the gas there is danger of breaking up adhesions which have already formed and are closing the intestinal openings, or of forcing out through an open wound in- fecting material that otherwise might have remained within the par- alyzed bowel. As respects the technique of laparotomy for gunshot wound, it is, in the main, that of abdominal section in general. A free incision is to be preferred to a short one, since it renders exploration, ligation, and suturing quicker and easier; and, as a rule having few exceptions, the opening should be in the median line and not through the wound. Perforations of the stomach or intestines are to be sewn up with the usual Lembert or modified Lembert stitch. If bowel wounds are so near together, or so large, as to make it unwise to close them because of the too great narrowing of lumen that would follow, the damaged part must be excised, and either end-to-end or lateral anastomosis es- tablished—by preference, probably, the former. No bleeding mesenteric vessel, whatever its size, should be left unligated. Lacerations of the liver or spleen, if other than slight, are to be sutured or plugged with sterilized or iodoform gauze, according to their extent. Serious damage to the kidney necessitates nephrectomy. In cases of perforation of the bladder, with escape of urine into the peritoneal cavity, laparotomy should be done at once; and the opening, if it can be found, which is not always the case, should be closed and the cavity cleansed. When- ever extravasation of any kind has occurred, thorough flushing of the peritoneal cavity with hot sterilized water should be practised, and a drainage tube should be used, to be removed as soon as the character of the discharge shows that it can with safety be dispensed with. The chief operative difficulty, ordinarily, is in the determination of the number and location of lesions, especially of the intestine. In- sufflation, of which so much was expected, has proved of little service and is now but rarely employed. Careful search with eyes and fingers must be made, and even then a wound or wounds may escape detection. Though exposure of any large extent of the intestinal tract is danger- ous, yet the danger can be minimized by the thorough wrapping of the bowel in warm aseptic towels; and the likelihood of perforations being overlooked is less when the intestine is thus dealt with than when it is