HERNIA. 8G8 the testicle (congenital, Fig. 1722), or it may be arrested in the tubu- Structure of Hernle. The contents of the hernia are enclosed in a sac, almost always formed by the peritoneum lining the abdominal cavity. The sac may be carried immediately in front of the escaping intestine or omentum (femoral, umbilical, etc.), or these viscera may descend into a sac already formed by the escape of some other organ (inguinal, scrotal). In the rare cases of hernia of those portions of the large intestine not covered by peritoneum, there is no true sac. The sac of a hernia is generally described as possessing a mouth, that part which looks directly into the abdominal cavity; a neck, the constricted portion at the opening into the abdominal cavity; a body, and a fundus, or most protruding portion. When the intestine alone enters into the forma- tion of a hernia, it is called enterocele; if omentum alone, epiplocele; if both are enclosed in the sac, entero-epiplocele. The coverings of a her- nia outside of the sac will vary with its location, and will be given in the consideration of the different varieties. As far as the sac itself is concerned, it varies in thickness, generally in proportion to the age of the hernia. In a recent hernia, it is exceed- ingly thin, while in some forms of scrotal hernia, of long duration, it may be as much as -jig or of an inch in thickness. A hernia is said to be reducible when the contents of the sac can by any means be re- turned into the cavity of the abdomen; irreducible when adhesions exist to such an extent that this cannot be effected ; strangulated when the circulation in the tumor is arrested by constriction at any portion (usually at the neck). Special Hernle. Inguinal Hernia.—An inguinal hernia may be direct or indirect, complete or incomplete, congenital or acquired. The indirect or “ oblique" variety is much the most frequently met with. In the male, the contents pass into the internal abdominal ring and follow the sper- matic cord along the inguinal canal, at times descending into the tunica vaginalis testis. In the female, the descent is into the canal of Nuck, following the round ligament in the inguinal canal, and at times as far as the labium. The epigastric vessels are internal to the neck and be- hind the body of an oblique inguinal hernia. (1, Fig. 1721.) A direct hernia does not enter the internal abdominal ring, but pushes the fascia which is to the inner side of the epigastric vessels and immediately behind the external ring directly in front of the tumor and out at the external ring. The epigastric vessels are external to the neck, and may be displaced slightly in front and to the outer side of a direct inguinal hernia. (2, Fig. 1721.) An inguinal hernia is said to be complete when the contents protrude beyond the external ring; incomplete when the tumor is within this limit. A complete inguinal hernia in the male may descend into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, the contents resting in contact with