REMOVAL OF THE GASSERIAN" GANGLION FOR TIC DOULOUREUX. 635 ing from near the outer eanthus about an inch below the external angular process, backward along the upper border of the zygoma to its posterior extremity. It is then carried down over the parotid region just in front of the ear to the angle of the jaw, and then forward along the lower border of the horizontal ramus as far as the facial artery. The flap of skin thus marked out is dissected forward. Two holes are then drilled at each end of the zygoma to facilitate later wiring, and the zygoma is divided and displaced downward along with the masseter muscle. The coronoid process is similarly drilled, divided, and turned upward with the tendon of the temporal muscle. In Mr. Rose’s latest cases this portion of the bone was entirely removed as useless, and doing this dispenses with the need of drilling it. The external pterygoid muscle is next scraped loose from the sphenoid bone, and the foramen ovale is found. At first Mr. Rose put the blunt end of the centre-pin of his long-handled half-inch trephine through the foramen ovale, but afterward, on account of the danger of encroaching on the Eustachian tube and the possibility of infection from this tube (his fifth case died from meningitis probably due to such infection), he placed the sharp end of the centre-pin a little external and anterior to the foramen, so that the edge of the trephine opening should be at the foramen itself. The thin lining of the fossa in which the ganglion lies (the lower layer of the dura mater) is then divided, and the ganglion as far as possible removed. If the internal maxillary artery or vein is in the way, it is double- ligated and divided. Care must be taken not to divide the upper layer of the dura above the ganglion (the true dura itself), for by so doing the subdural cavity would be opened. On the inner side the carotid artery and the cavernous sinus must also be avoided. An electric light is almost a necessity.1 The second and third divisions of the fifth nerve are readily found and removed, with as much of the ganglion as can be taken away by Rose’s special hooks, or by a small sharp spoon. Fowler has proposed to attempt the removal of the sensory portion of the ganglion, leaving the motor root intact. Whether this is feasible has not yet been demonstrated. It is certainly desirable, but there is a possible danger that the attempt to preserve the motor root might cause imperfect removal of the sensory portion of the ganglion, and so nullify the whole operation. Of Mr. Rose’s 7 patients, 6 recovered, and of these, 5 at the time of the last report were entirely free from pain, the first having been so for nearly two years. One very nervous patient had slight recurrence. Andrews,2 of Chicago, has also devised several operative methods which differ but little from Rose’s. Mr. Horsley 3 proposed an intra- dural method and has operated once. He made a large opening through the squamous portion of the temporal bone, opened the dura, lifted the temporal lobe so as to see the roots of the fifth nerve emerg- ing from the pons, from which they were removed by avulsion. His patient unfortunately died in seven hours from shock. Richardson has 1 The best light is that of W. A. Hirschmann, of Berlin. It is very bright, and the light can be thrown in any direction, thus making it useful in all other surgical work requiring such illumination. Otto Flemming, of Philadelphia, has made me a very satisfactory storage battery to work the lamp. 2 Journal Amer. Med. Assoc., 1891, vol. ii., p. 168; and 1893, vol. i., p. 180. 3 Brit. Med. Journal, 1891, vol. ii., p. 1191.