835 TREATMENT OF MAMMARY SARCOMA. are malignant—the glands may be simply irritated. The surgeon should err on the safe side, however, and should clear out the axilla in all such cases. Gross reports 92 cases.1 There were 42 local recurrences; in 8 there was repro- duction of the tumor with metastasis; in 3, recurrence with all evidences of general dissemination; 4 were characterized by metastases and 2 by presumed metastases without local reproduction—that is, 64.83 per cent, possessed malignant features. Of the reproductions 57.7 per cent, occurred in six months; after twelve months 28.8 per cent, and only 8.8 per cent, of the latter after two years. The latest reproduction occurred after four years. The patient’s chances are relatively good after two years. In 156 cases axillary glands were enlarged, and these were occasionally tender in 19, operations with subsequent examination indicating hyperplasia. Before the age of 35 the slow-growing sarcomata will not recur, but rapidly growing sarcomata are very apt to recur, especially the cystic variety. The round-celled growth is the most malignant, but metastases occur with the spindle-celled variety. The operation cures in some cases, and certainly pro- longs life. Ninety-one operations show 13.18 per cent, of the patients well after four years. If ali recurrences are removed as fast as they appear, suffering is alleviated, life prolonged, visceral contamination averted, and, occasionally, a cure effected. Gross concludes: (1) that sarcomata of the mammary gland, including those of the cystic variety, which is a comparatively benign growth, are neoplasms of decided malignancy; (2) that surgical intervention prolongs life, and fre- quently results in permanent recovery, and that local reproductions do not mili- tate against final cure, provided that they are freely removed as fast as they appear; (3) that the subjects are absolutely safe from local and general repro- duction if four years have elapsed since the last operation. Gross’s statement that sarcoma of the breast does not usually' affect the axillary glands, is confirmed by Butlin,2 only one of whose seven cases of cystic sarcoma had the axillary' glands infected. In this case the glands were not removed, and four years afterward the enlargement had subsided completely. Heath3 regards sarcomata as about as malignant as carcinomata. A soft, rapidly growing tumor of the breast, unaccompanied by enlarged axillary lymphatics, is usually a sarcoma. This consideration does not affect treatment, but has an important bearing on prognosis. There is a great tendency to local recurrence. Treatment.—The treatment of mammary sarcoma by the injection of the products of erysipelas and other micro-organisms, as described by Coley, offers more hope of cure than in carcinomata. This method was very successful in one of my own cases of fibro-sarcoma of the ab- dominal wall, in which the diagnosis was confirmed by a microscopic examination bv Dr. W. F. Whitney. In this instance there was com- plete disappearance of the growth after a few months’ treatment. This method should not, however, be used for growths which can be thoroughly extirpated by the knife. In carcinoma the results are not encouraging. After parenchymatous injections of pyoktanin and other chemicals the results are unpromising. This method I tried re- peatedly and thoroughly in a case of rapidly recurring my'xo-sarcoma, after the operative treatment had included resection of the ribs and sternum. The cells were found deeply stained, but there had been no perceptible influence upon the growth. 1 Prognosis of Sarcomata. Trans. Amer. Surg. Association, 1887, vol. v., p. 238. 2 Lancet, July 12, 1894. 3 Ibid., 1891, vol. i., p. 1027.