512 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. sew these abscesses up after a thorough clearing out, without drainage, and in a certain number of cases primary union may be secured.1 A large proportion of abscesses treated in this way ultimately break down again, but some of them remain permanently healed. On the whole, however, it seems better to pack the wound or close it loosely, allowing the cavity to drain, and the spontaneous closure of the sinus is one of the most favorable of prognostic signs. It is important, in operating upon a hip abscess, to lay open, as far as practicable, the whole extent of the cavity. If possible, the joint should be explored, as its capsule must necessarily have burst, and if a sequestrum is found it should be removed. The Prevention of Hip Abscesses.—This is a still more important question than that of the treatment of hip abscesses, because it has received very little attention. Mr. Howard Marsh said, in speaking of his cases: “My own estimate, from what I have seen in the hospital and elsewhere, is that the formation of an abscess may be averted in at least 80 per cent, of the total number of cases.” In the earlier series of cases reported, however, 60 or TO per cent, developed abscesses. (Gibney, and London Clinical Society.) In contrast to these cases a series reported from the Boston Children’s Hospital is of much interest; in 320 cases under ambulatory treat- ment only 23 per cent, developed abscesses. In a later series of cases from the same institution, only 18.7 per cent, developed abscesses in 57-1 new cases treated by ambulatory measures. The reason for this small percentage is probably the fact that patients under ambulatory treatment are at once admitted to the hospital whenever sensitiveness or deformity of the joint occurs, and are treated by recumbency. Treat- ment by aspiration and the injection of iodoform, and the like, is in general unsatisfactory, in comparison with free incision. Malum Cox.® Senile.—The form of disease of the hip occurring in elderly persons has generally been regarded as an intractable form of rheumatoid arthritis. The extension of mechanical methods of treat- ment in all departments of joint surgery, has served to show that much may be accomplished by mechanical support when pain and irritability are present in this condition. H. L. Taylor,2 in an admirable paper, has related several cases where rest to the joint was afforded by recum- bency and traction. After a period of such treatment, a splint similar to that used in convalescence from hip disease was applied, and after a rather long period of such treatment extremely favorable results were obtained. The irritability in these joints seems to yield as readily to rest and traction as do similar symptoms in tubercular disease of the hip. Congenital Dislocation of the Hip.—Any article on diseases of the joints would be incomplete without some mention of the recent ad- vances made in the treatment of that most serious affection of the hip joint, congenital dislocation. Information upon its etiology and pathology can be found elsewhere, but the advance in treatment within late years is so promising that the importance of the subject demands a description of the newer methods. 1 Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, Sept. 18, 1890. - New York Med. Journal, Dec. 15, 1888.