INJURIES OF THE HEAD. o ( <j ^79 toms need mention, as they are variously grouped, and as no two cases are alike; unfortunately when the abscess occupies the frontal lobes, no localising symptoms will appear until, perhaps, late, from secondary pressure, when they are more apt to be misleading than of service in arriving at a diagnosis. For the differential diagnosis the reader is re- ferred to the remarks on meningitis, mastoid disease, extradural ab- scess, thrombosis of the lateral sinus, and pyaemia. I would urge that while the rule given as to the most probable time for the appearance of symptoms of cerebral abscess holds good in most instances, yet such cases as Weir’s 1 show how late in the case pus formation may occur. Operation.—Special care should be exercised in the administration of the anEesthetic, as respiration often becomes embarrassed or ceases just about the time that the abscess is reached. Where possible—as it often will he—no anaesthetic should be employed, ether being the one selected, if any be used. After elevating a proper flap at the point in- dicated by the scalp-wound, the osteomyelitic hone, or the seat of frac- ture, or when none of these exist—an unlikely contingency in the class of cases I am now considering—the bone, wherever the focal symp- toms indicate, should be removed, a crucial incision should be made through the dura mater, and then pus should be sought for by passing a grooved director2 in one or more directions toward the supposed locality of the abscess, after reaching which the track of the director must be enlarged by a small Volkmann’s spoon, a drainage-tube— a metallic or glass one is preferable—introduced, and the cavity washed gently out with sterilized water or some weak germicidal solution.3 If the trephine opening is not favorably located for drainage, it will in some instances be proper to make a second bone perforation opposite the most dependent portion of the abscess cavity, passing thence a director into the abscess, and then proceeding as already suggested; the first bone opening can be closed by its own bone-disc, kept in warm aseptic water and nicked on one side to allow an exit for pus or wound fluids. To insure the patency of the drainage-tube, a small portion of the edge of the flap should be excised, or a piece cut out opposite the trephine opening. Great care in suturing and dressing should be taken to insure primary union of the flap, lest hernia cerebri oc- cur. The tube must he very gradually shortened, and after its final withdrawal the case must be jealously Watched for some weeks, lest a re-accumulation take place.4 Additional Methods for the Determination of the Fissures of Rolando and Sylvius. As it is presupposed that the surgeon is familiar with the ordinary terms used in cerebral topography, no explanation of these will be given; he is also supposed to be acquainted with the location of the cerebral sinuses, etc., and only to require assistance in locating the fis- sures mentioned to be able to find any of the cortical centres. 1 Annals of Surgery, vol. v., p. 505. - The sharp aspirator needle is unsafe and, as I have found, becomes plugged with brain- tissue. Chiene uses a pair of small sinus forceps, and other surgeons boldly plunge in a bistoury. 3 Introducing a small amount of ethereal iodoform has been tried successfully. 4 Fenger and Lee, Trans. Amer. Surg. Association, vol. iii., pp. 65 et seq.