905 INGUINAL COLOTOMY. out of the incision and bent on itself to form a sharp and efficient spur. It has always seemed to me a very grave admission of Mr. Bryant’s that in twenty-five per cent, of his cases he has failed to prevent the passage of freces past the artificial opening. No such difficulty exists with the inguinal operation. The lumbar operation consists in finding the colon, fastening it where it lies to the incision, and opening it. The inguinal operation does more than this, in that it brings the movable sigmoid flexure to the point de- sired, bends it over the wire suture at a sharp angle to form a spur, and fastens it there so as to prevent all subsequent passage of faeces beyond the opening. I have never known the operation to fail in ac- complishing this, its main object, when skilfully performed. In reality there are two openings into the bowels, an upper and a lower, which have been likened by the younger Allingham to the openings in a double- barrelled gun, except that the upper or proximal one is much larger than the lower or distal. The distal opening is of great advantage in allowing the washing out of the rectum from above downward, to clear it from whatever fasces may have been in it at the time of the operation, and from any collection of pus which may accumulate from the ulceration. An advantage claimed by Bryant for the lumbar incision is that patients can apply firmer compression to the wound to prevent pro- lapse of the mucous membrane. But prolapse has never been an an- noying complication in any of my own inguinal operations. The pa- tients generally have a truss made which fits firmly over the wound, exactly as in femoral hernia, but they seldom make much use of it, and are usually comfortable with a broad, firm, abdominal bandage. A few words as to the after-condition of patients with an artificial anus may be of interest. The first thing accomplished is healing of non-malignant ulceration, and atrophy and contraction of the gut below the opening. This takes time. At first the discharge of pus and mucus from the anus will continue once or twice a day, and the rectum should be irrigated daily with some weak antiseptic solution from the artificial opening. After a time this will entirely cease. In cancerous disease, the relief to the tenesmus and frequent defecation is immediate, and the patients almost invariably begin at once to improve in appetite and general condition, and to take on flesh. After a few weeks there will generally be one, or at the most two solid evacuations from the colotomy opening daily, though if there has been much chronic obstruction before operation, with intestinal catarrh, it may take a considerable time to overcome the existing diarrhoea. When this has once been accomplished, however, as it can be by a few weeks of regu- lated diet, the patient’s condition becomes a very comfortable one. Of actual control of the passage there is none in the proper sense of the word—power to prevent an evacuation which is imminent—but there generally has been none for a good while before the operation. The pa- tient will often feel a warning of defecation for some time before the actual evacuation, as is natural in the rectum, and will have ample time to remove the dressing and prepare himself, but he cannot prevent it. His comfort depends upon the daily action of the bowels at a fixed time and his ability to escape diarrhoea. Exactly the same condition exists after most of the severe operations on the rectum and anus. There is