( 923) URINARY CALCULUS. BY E. L. KEYES, A.M., M.IX, OF NEW YORK. In reading over the article which it is the purpose of this supplemen- tary paper to endeavor to bring up to date, I have been rather struck with surprise at the very moderate amount of new information con- cerning the subject under discussion which it has been my fortune to observe, or which has entered my experience in any way, either practi- cally or through reading during the period which has elapsed since the appearance of the first essay. Indeed, although some startling ad- vances, scientifically and practically, in other operations upon the uri- nary tract have crystallized into shape of late years, it seems that very little real advance has been made in any direction touching the sub- ject of urinary calculus and its management. As far as I am aware, there have been very few new suggestions made from reputable quar- ters touching upon such serious points as the cause of stone, the classi- fication, the structure, or the rate of growth. The recent work of Ebstein and Nicolaier1 is the only communication of moment and recent date bearing upon the scientific aspect of stone formation. This treatise is a natural sequence of Ebstein's former work. He and Nicolaier in 1886, at the Medical Congress in Wiesbaden, made known the results of their first experiments with oxamide; and the present treatise sets forth their findings after more extensive study. They attempted to produce acid stones by feeding dogs with uric acid, but failed totally, although they caused one dog to take 1290 grammes in five and a half months. With oxamide, however, alone or combined with oxalic acid, their results were positive upon a variety of animals. The calculi of oxamide were found always multiple, and generally in both kidneys—in the calices, never in the kidney substance—and in the ureters and bladder. The nuclei of the calculi were organic, and there was always more or less infiltration of the epithelia with crystals of oxalate of lime. The conclusion is that the oxamide acts upon the epithelium as a poi- son, causing partial necrosis with detachment, and that the detached scales form the nuclei for calculous deposit. Basing their deductions on these experiments, and applying them to 1 Ueber die experimentelle Erzeugung von Harnsteinen. Wiesbaden, 1891.