INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. (703) BY ALBERT H. BUCK, M.D., OF NEW YORK. Since 1884, when the article on “Injuries and Diseases of the Ear” was written for the “International Encyclopaedia of Surgery,” the domain of aural pathology and therapeutics has been enriched in vari- ous directions. Thus, for example, we have reached, during these years, a more perfect knowledge of the intimate relationship between nasal and vault troubles and affections of the ear; and as a result of this increased knowledge I am warranted in saying that many a case is now rescued from more or less serious impairment of the hearing, which in those and still earlier days would have been dismissed as incurable. Then there is another large class of ear cases to which a great deal of attention has been paid during the last decade; I refer to those affected with chronic ulcerative disease of the invisible portions of the tympanic cavity—the recessus epitympanicus or the vault of the tympanum, the ossicles which occupy a part of this hidden vault, and the still more remote mastoid antrum. These are the cases which fur- nish the greater part of the mortality from ear disease, a mortality which—I am pleased to be able to say—-is growing steadily less as the years go by. The diminution of this death-rate is due to the fact that we are now able to treat a large percentage of these cases successfully, relieving them of the foul discharge which almost always characterizes chronic disease of the vault of the tympanum, and removing from the immediate neighborhood of the brain a dangerous focus of disease. There are two ways by which these results are usually obtained: one, by the systematic cleansing of the vault of the tympanum with perox- ide of hydrogen or with weak bichloride solutions forced through suit- ably bent glass or metal canulse, the ossicles (if present) not being dis- turbed ; the other, by the employment of precisely the same measures after first removing the hammer and anvil. In the majority of in- stances a faithful and intelligent employment of the first of these methods will effect the desired cure, but in a few cases, especially those in which the opening into the middle ear is small, the most skil- ful use of the slender probe and the most faithful employment of anti- septic intra-tympanic washes will not produce this result, and we shall then be justified in urging upon the patient ossiculectomy—as this operative removal of the hammer and anvil is termed. The technical details of both this operation and that for the removal of the stirrup—stapedectomy—need not be given in this place; they