INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 856 and has had satisfactory motions on the third day after the operation, the chances of ultimate recovery are good. Treatment of Plastic Peritonitis.—In plastic peritonitis, where the inflammatory reaction is not severe, medical treatment by laxatives and enemata, together with the administration of phenacetin and codeine for pain, are often sufficient. Rest in bed, with ice to the abdomen, is a necessary adjunct to the outlined treatment. Resolution during the stage of decadence is often hastened by blisters and hot fomentations. When suppuration occurs and either single or multiple abscess is formed, early surgical interference is necessary, but must be under- taken with great care. Every effort must be made to enter the abscess without bringing about an infection of the general peritoneum. This can be readily enough accomplished in many cases of pelvic peritonitis and appendicitis. Conditions occur, however, in which it is impossible to reach and evacuate intraperitoneal abscesses without subjecting the patient to the dangers of a general septic infection. Here the method of opening the abscess in two stages, after the method employed by Sonnenburg, is useful. First, an exploratory incision is made, estab- lishing all the anatomical relations of the abscess, and then the wound is plugged with iodoform gauze. After firm adhesions have been established, the abscess cavity is opened and drained. The after- treatment calls for no especial description. Obstruction of the bowels is not an unusual complication of plastic peritonitis. Bands of lymph cause either direct occlusion or acute flexure. When the process is not too extensive these adhesions can be broken up by abdominal section. On the other hand, when the plastic exudation is widely distributed, or is associated with large pus cavities, enterostomy, with the making of a faecal fistula, is at once more conservative and offers better chances for ultimate recovery. The recent statistics of Konig and others have placed incision and drainage in tubercular peritonitis upon undisputed ground. In my own experience this plan of treatment is followed by cure in most cases. Lately there has accumulated much evidence in favor of the simple introduction into the peritoneal cavity of iodoform in some form or other, such as the dry powder, or the iodoform-glycerin mixture. Appendicitis. The subject of inflammation in the right inguinal region, its pathol- ogy and treatment, has undergone a very radical change, and from the maze of unmeaning terms by which it was formerly designated, such as typhlitis, perityphlitis and paratyphlitis, intraperitoneal and extra- peritoneal abscess, etc., we are at last relieved through the very thor- ough investigations that have been made by Fitz and others, and we iiovt have the true term, appendicitis, indicating the pathological con- dition that really exists. It is possible that there may be a condition of typhlitis owing to the impaction of faeces within the caecum, and that it may perhaps lead to ulceration of this portion of the large intestine; but though it has been observed in a few cases, it is an exceedingly rare affection. Appendicitis, or inflammation of the appendix vermiformis, presents