646 INJURIES OF THE BACK. are made to correct displacements by traction, by direct pressure, and by bending the spine, usually backward; the latter may be effected by passing a stout bandage under the patient as he lies on his back, so that it rests against the projecting spinous process—for example, at the lower dorsal or lumbar region—and then lifting the body by means of this bandage. Traction is made by fixing the head, or the head and shoulders, and then raising the end of the bed or the plank upon which the patient rests so that the body shall tend to slide gently downward away from the head. Immediate fixation to secure such gain as has been thus obtained may be effected by a plaster-of-Paris jacket. A more convenient method than the use of the ordinary roller bandage is to prepare a pad of about a dozen thicknesses of crinoline of suitable length and breadth, and saturated with plaster cream; this is passed under the patient, and the ends are brought up on either side to overlap in front. A smoother fit can sometimes be got by splitting the ends so as to make a “ many-tailed” or Scultetus bandage. Dr. Woodbury, of New York, has adopted the ingenious plan sug- gested in cases of Pott's disease by B. Davy, of suspending the patient horizontally upon a strip, or sort of hammock, of stout muslin, and then including it in the turns of a plaster roller. After the plaster has set, the muslin is cut off at the upper and lower edges of the jacket. In some cases the application of a plaster jacket, without any attempt to rectify any displacement that has been present, lias been promptly followed by marked amelioration of the symptoms and an ultimate cure. On the other hand, traction by partial suspension, as just described, has occasionally given rise to unfavorable, and even to alarming, symptoms. On the whole, it seems proper to say that we have, in cautiously made partial suspension by the head, or head and shoulders, a safe means for correcting or diminishing certain displacements after fracture, and in immobilization of the trunk by a plaster-of- Paris jacket a means of avoiding secondary or recurrent displace- ment during repair. Operative Treatment.—The experience gained during the last few years has shown that under the protection of modern methods of operat- ing and dressing, the dangers of cutting down upon the spinal column and opening the spinal canal are much less than they formerly wrere, or were supposed to be. Unfortunately an affirmative gain, the proof of its ability to relieve, has not been so fully established. This experience has been collected and thoroughly studied by Dr. J. William White in a paper read before the American Surgical Association in 1891, and published in its Transactions for that year. To it the reader is referred for details that cannot be repeated here. In order to determine as far as possible the present risk of such oper- ative interference, Dr. White has collated only those cases in which the wound was treated antiseptically; there are 37 operations for fracture, with 6 complete recoveries, 6 recoveries from the operation with benefit, 11 recoveries unimproved, and 14 deaths, a mortality of thirty-eight per cent. In how many of these cases the fatal result was occasioned or hastened by the interference cannot, of course, be positively deter-