156 RACHITIS. Dr. A. Jacobi, who has had a large clinical experience, also highly recom- mends phosphorus in the treatment of rachitis. The dose should be small, even minute, not more than from -giro to of a grain according to the age, three times daily. As regards my own observations, I am not able to express a positive opinion as to the value of the phosphorus treatment, for reasons which I think also apply to many of the cases embraced in the favorable statistics of the distinguished observers mentioned above, to wit, the simultaneous use of cod-liver oil, with im- provement in the diet and general hygiene. The following prescriptions may be employed: first, the oleum phos- phoratum, made according to the following formula: Phosphorus, 1 part; ether, 9 parts; almond oil, 90 parts; one minim contains y-g-y- of a grain of phosphorus. Or, secondly, the following, known as “Thompson's mixture:” B Phosphori, gr. i.; alcoholis, TTfcccl.; spt. menthae piperit., ii[x.; glycerini, fgij. M. Dose, 6 drops in- creased to 10, three times daily, to a child of from two to four years. Ten minims contain yyy of a grain, and thirteen minims contain yyy of a grain. Phosphorus should, I think, be given after the meals, in order to prevent irritation of the stomach. Dr. H. H. Purdy, physician to the large class of children’s diseases in the outdoor department at Bellevue Hospital, has preserved statistics of the treatment of rachitis during a year. The cases which furnish the statistics were about 80, and he gives a resume of the results of treatment as follows:— Some were given cod-liver oil alone, some cod-liver oil with phosphorus, and others phosphorus alone, and of course all the mothers were given instruction in feeding and hygiene. Those infants that received only phosphorus were the slow- est to improve. Indeed, in several cases this method of treatment was abandoned because of the absence of signs of improvement. The group treated with cod- liver oil did the best. In fact, all of the infants that could tolerate the oil de- rived much benefit from it. The group that were given cod-liver oil with phos- phorus did very well, but seemingly no better than those that were given only cod-liver oil. The preparation that seems to be the most beneficial is one that is used at the Church Hospital and Dispensary. It is an emulsion of cod-liver oil made with the yolk of eggs. The formula for the emulsion is Yolks of eggs, No. x. Cod-liver oil. .......... Oij. Syrup of wild cherry, Oi. Sherry wine, .......... Oi. One or more teaspoonfuls should be given three or more times daily. In my opinion the treatment by phosphorus is still tentative, notwithstanding its rec- ommendation by so many distinguished physicians, and the old remedies, cod-liver oil and iron, should not be abandoned, although trial may be made of phosphorus at the same time. Care should be taken to prevent deformities while the bones are soft and yielding. The patient should not be encouraged to stand or use the limbs until they become firmer. He should lie upon a soft and even mattress. Uniform support of body and limbs is requisite in order to prevent curvature. In craniotabes the pillows should be soft, and care should be taken that the yielding parts of the cranium be not unduly pressed upon. The perspiration may be relieved by sponging