885 SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. Murphy’s Button for Intestinal Anastomosis. Fig. 1737. I left the space between the su- FiS- 1736- tures on the upper end of the gut a little wider than on the lower (about a flush one-eightli of an inch on the upper side and a scant one-eighth of an inch on the low- er), and was surprised to notice within a few minutes after re- establishment of the continuity that the intestine below expanded to a size equal to that above the line of union. When the condition of the pa- tient is such as to demand a more rapid procedure than union by suture, as just described (which in skilled hands will take at least one hour to perform), I would advise the employment of the Murphy button, a most ingenious device of Dr. J. B. Murphy, of Chicago (Fig. 1736). These buttons are made of various sizes to suit different portions of the alimentary canal. While they are more read- ily adapted to union by lateral anastomosis, and to the operation of cholecysto-enterostomy, they have also proved successful in end-to-end anastomosis, and in my opinion are the best appliance next in order to rapid suture. These buttons consist of two small circular bowls (Fig. 1736), so arranged that when properly adjusted in that portion of the bowel where the anastomosis is to be made they close to- gether by a double ratchet, compressing the inverted peritoneal surfaces of the ends of the intestine, and securely holding these surfaces in apposition until adhesion occurs. The thread, which has tied the end of the gut around the central portion of each segment of the button and inverted the peritoneum, be- comes loosened by necrosis from pressure, and with the button, in from seven to fifteen days, drops loose into the alimentary canal, and is carried along until it is passed with the faecal matter through the rectum. At Fig. 1737 the method of passing the suture in and out around the margin of the bowel is shown. With a straight needle, armed with a medium- sized silk suture, the needle is carried through the bowel, a little more than one-eighth of an inch from its cut edge, passing through the peritoneal coat and into the lumen of the gut. One-fourth of an inch further on the suture is carried on the same level through the mucous