vol. vii.—54 ( 849 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. BY ALBERT VANDER VEER, A.M., M.D., Ph.D., PROFESSOR OF DIDACTIC, ABDOMINAL, AND CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE; SURGEON TO THE ALBANY HOSPITAL, ETC., ETC. A revision of the admirable and exhaustive chapter on abdominal diseases and injuries, written for the International Encyclopedia of Surgery by Mr. Henry Morris, can be nothing more than a digest of the advances made in the last decade. The original article is a model of intelligent research, completeness in detail, and rare surgical acumen. Few additions will be made to the subjects discussed, and they are such as have been developed in more recent years. A comparison between the management of the surgical affections found within the abdomen, a decade ago and at the present time, will show a material advancement. This condition can be attributed to no single factor. The increased knowledge of pathological conditions, the more accurate diagnosis resulting from greater experience, and the improvements in the technique are each sources of material advantage. For example: In appendicitis, the anatomical relations of the appendix, the precise pathological condition, and the diagnosis, were all in- volved in more or less uncertainty until very recently. What is true of appendicitis is equally true of pelvic abscess, extra-uterine preg- nancy, and diseases of the liver and biliary ducts. The studies of the endo-enteric organisms and their relations to peritoneal inflammation have led to important discoveries, which promise much in the way of making clear many things that gave the surgeon great concern in the early days of abdominal surgery. The technique in abdominal section, taken in its broadest sense, has undergone many changes. Processes have become less involved and mysterious. The speculative has largely gone out from abdominal surgery. The involved processes in the preparation of the operating room, of the patient, of the sponges, sutures, ligatures, and dressings, prescribed by antiseptic surgery, have given way to the more simple and rational methods of aseptic surgery. Simplicity is aimed at in every possible direction. Experimental surgery has been of great as- sistance in establishing surgical procedures in abdominal surgery. The use of inflation of hydrogen-gas for diagnostic purposes in penetrating wounds of the intestine, and in establishing the relations of tumors to other viscera, has been of great assistance. Intestinal anastomosis by plates of decalcified bone, rawhide, or potato, as well as by the Murphy