66G DISEASES OF THE SPINE. When the extra-dural tuberculous deposit is large in amount, it is better not to open the membrane lest infection ensue. With a curved probe the anterior region of the cord may be ex- plored, and by sacrificing one spinal root it is possible even to remove the anterior deposits. Manipulation of the cord should be carefully avoided, as it adds markedly to the shock of operation. Bone frag- ments, if found, may be removed. Hot boracic acid solution should be used for washing, and drainage should be thorough, both by rubber tubing and catgut. The muscles above and below should be sutured in separate layers, and the wound should be packed with iodoform or aristol gauze. In cases where the posterior arches are the seat of caries, as in cases reported by Dr. John B. Roberts1 and by myself,2 considerable portions of the bone may be removed, but, unfortunately, complete removal is seldom possible, as the disease commonly extends to the bodies. Urban3 lifts a large mass of muscle with the laminae, and replaces the trap-door flap; Chipault and Vincent,4 and Israel5 are in favor of very radical and complete removal, not only of the deposit, but of the diseased bone in front of the canal. Lane6 and Horsley’are favorable to early operative interference; hut Thorburn 8 declares that we do not lose by waiting. A study of the literature of lamnectomy shows that, save the two attempts of Maisonneuve in I860, there were no operations of this char- acter until about fifteen years ago, when Lannelongue removed the detached spine of the second dorsal, an operation which should more properly be classed under the head of removal of carious bone. Jack- son’s operation in 1882 was probably the first deliberately planned attempt to remove pressure and relieve the paraplegia. Temporary improvement is frequently noted immediately after the operation, undoubtedly from the relief of pressure, but as the tubercular and inflammatory deposits reform, relapses are frequent and death has fol- lowed in a number of instances. In 134 recorded cases (or 130, omitting 4 that are incomplete in detail), the total deaths within a year after the operation were 58, making a percentage of 44.6. Thirty-two patients died of shock, or within the first week, and their deaths may be fairly attributed to the operation, 24.6 per cent. Forty-seven, or 36 per cent., died within the first month; and the lives of all these may be said to have been short- ened by the surgical interference. Of the 75 cases in which the patients survived, 11 are recorded as “unsuccessful,” or “not improved,” and 15 more as only “slightly im- proved,” while only 46 cases can really he set down as decidedly and permanently benefited, a percentage of 35.4. It is of course impossible to judge of the possibilities of these forty- six cases had they been treated by rest and extension, but the results of lamnectomy are certainly far from satisfactory, and prove that 1 Trans. Phila. Co. Med. Hoc., 1893. 2 Mutter Lectures, College of Physicians, Phila., 1893-94. 3 Yerhand. d. Deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Chirurg., 1892, No. 21. 4 Revue de Chirurgie, 1892-93, p. 273. 5 Yerhand. d. Deutsch. Gesellsch. f. Chirurgie, 1892, No. 21, Bd. ii., S. 211. 6 Trans. Clin. Soc., London, 1892, vol. xxv., p. 30; Brit. Med. Journal, 1891. 1 Brit. Med. Journal, 1890, vol. ii., p. 1286. 8 Surgery of the Spinal Cord, p. 800. 1891.