SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 769 The previous existence of a goitre predisposes to inflammation of the gland. Lebert saw all of his cases in Zurich, where goitre is endemic, hut none in Breslau. Kocher 1 reports 24 cases of strumitis, in 11 of which aspiration, electrolysis, or interstitial injections had been prac- tised. In G of the remaining 13 cases some of the causes already men- tioned were found, and Kocher directs attention to mild catarrhal af- fections of the alimentary canal as predisposing to the disease in question. Of suppurative thyroiditis two cases have come under my observation; one acute, in a previously normal gland as a sequel of typhoid fever; the other chronic, and following the retention of the needle of a hypodermic syringe.2 Suppurative thyroiditis is always of microbic origin. Eleven cases examined in this regard showed the presence of eight different species of bacteria. Besides the ordinary pus formers found by Wolffler in 18S3, the presence of the pneumococcus was demonstrated by Gerard and Marchant;3 of the bacterium coli commune by Brunner,4 and of the typhoid bacillus by Favel and Kummer.6 Non-suppurating thyroiditis may involve the entire gland, while the purulent form is generally limited to one lobe. Abscesses may be superficial or deep.; single or multiple. In the latter cases intensely vascular gland tissue will be found between the foci. The tendency of thyroid abscesses is to point externally. Retention of pus beneath the cervical fascia sometimes leads to mediastinal inflammation. Perforation into the trachea is not very rare, but rupture into the oeso- phagus is less common. In fulminating cases of thyroiditis gangrene may develop, with retention of the gases of decomposition. Symptoms and Course.—The symptoms and course of thyroiditis are largely influenced by the cause, and by the previous state of the part. Developing in a hitherto normal gland, an inflammation of malarial, rheumatic, or typhoid origin is comparatively mild. Often inaugu- rated with a chill, the disease makes itself manifest through elevated temperature, rapid pulse, dry tongue, and anorexia. When, as is the rule in these cases, the entire gland is involved, a characteristic swelling appears in the place of the normal thyroid, on both sides and in front of the trachea. The swelling may often be felt by palpation before the tumefaction becomes visible. In well-developed cases the tumor is as large as a peach, or a fist, and its lower border may then be beyond reach, extending below the sternal notch. The tumor, always tender, moves with the trachea. The overlying soft parts glide freely upon it. The size of the swelling determines the local symptoms, which are chiefly those of compression. Moderate dyspnoea from pressure on the trachea is common. There is usually some huskiness of voice or spasmodic cough from compression of the recurrent nerves. Pressure on the veins may produce a cyanosis of the neck and lower portion of the face. Epistaxis and haemoptysis have been observed. When the swelling is large, radiating pains may be felt in the course of the lower cervical nerves. The symptoms of compression are most marked in cases of strumitis proper. In the milder forms of the disease the conditions de- scribed are developed within from four days to a week; they remain 'Arch. f. klio. Cliir., Bd. xxiii., S. 113. 2 Annals of Surgery, October, 1894 "Cong. Chir. (France), 1891. p. 268. 4 Schweiz. Corresp.-Bl., 1892, Bd. xxii,, S. 307. 6 Wien. med. Presse, 1891, Bd. xxxii., S. 1620. VOL. VII.—49