INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 898 1 Page 88. ployed within the abdominal cavity, it being indeed safer to rely upon flushings with warm distilled water. Whatever view may be taken as to the necessity of drainage in abdominal surgery generally, there can, I think, be no question that it is desirable after laparotomy for obstruc- tion of the bowels, and the glass drainage-tube is, I think, in these cases preferable to that of india-rubber. It should be furnished with a rubber dam and a tent of sterilized gauze or cotton, so that the tube may be accessible without disturbing the general dressing. For sutur- ing the external wound, silk-worm gut is now commonly preferred to silk, and the stitches should be made to embrace all the tissues, includ- ing the peritoneum. COLOTOMY. Though the statistics of lumbar colotomy appear still to be better than those of the inguinal operation, it cannot be denied that there is a growing feeling in the professional mind in favor of the latter proced- ure. Littre’s operation is certainly simpler and more easy of execu- tion than Amussat’s, and has very generally been chosen in cases of congenital deformity, in children; and in view of the lessened fear of peritonitis with which surgeons now approach operations on the abdom- inal cavity, it is probable that it will hereafter be the operation of elec- tion in adults also. Colotomy in any form is adapted to the treatment of chronic rather than of acute obstruction, and I am more and more dispo&ed to limit it to cases in which actual obstruction is either present, or at least impending. I have seen so many patients who after a suc- cessful colotomy were dissatisfied with their condition and would rather have returned to their previous state than continue to endure the annoyances of an artificial anus, that I am not disposed to urge the operation as long as defecation per vicis naturales continues to be prac- ticable. When the inguinal method is chosen, and immediate relief is not imperative, it is desirable to divide the operation into two stages, .exposing the bowel and securing it to the abdominal wall on the first occasion, and postponing the incision of the gut until forty-eight hours afterward. Enterectomy and Colectomy. When it becomes necessary, after a laparotomy for intestinal ob- truction, to excise a portion of either the small or the large intestine, it is best, unless the lesion be high up in the lesser bowel, to attach the ends to the margins of the external wound, so as to establish tem- porarily a false anus, which may afterward be closed when the patient is in a better condition for a prolonged operation. If, however, the lesion be in the jejunum or upper part of the ileum, nutrition would be so much interfered with by this course that it is then better to resort to immediate enterorrhaphy if the patient’s condition will at all permit of doing so. The advice given in Vol. VI.,1 that after intes- tinal excision a triangular piece of the mesentery, corresponding in length to the portion of bowel removed, should also be exsected, must