370 INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. that an account of the principal facts pertaining to the discovery, life history, and pathological effects of the filaria sanguinis liominis and its parent the filaria Bancrofti, will be subjoined. Otto Wucherer, of Bahia,1 first described in 1866 embryonic filarife detected in chylous urine, hut Klencke in 1843 possibly discovered similar organisms in the blood, though his descriptions are too vague to decide this question. T. R. Lewis,'1 of Calcutta, in 1872 detected filarife in the blood of a native, and afterward in that of several individuals who were or had been chy- luric. Bancroft, of Brisbane,3 on December 21, 1876, obtained a dead female filaria from a lymphatic abscess of the arm, possibly having been slightly antedated in this discovery by Carter, of Bombay.4 Carter next reported the withdrawal of four living female filarife from a hydrocele of the spermatic cord, while Lewis secured both the male and female worm alive from the scrotal tissues in a case of nsevoid elephantiasis of the scrotum.6 Manson8 reported in 1880 the finding of a living worm in a dilated lymphatic of the scrotum, thus determining the habitat of the filaria Bancrofti (the adult organism), in a patient who had had craw-craw and chyluria. He contends that the female, occupying a lymph duct, emits the embryos, which are small enough to pass through the lymph glands and thence reach the blood. Both Manson and Lewis have found the embryo en- tozoons in the stomach of the culex mosquito, this insect having ab- stracted them with the blood from an infected human being; many are digested, some are cast off, others bore through the stomach and undergo developmental changes in the thoracic and abdominal tissues. After escape from the living or dead insect they probably, as free nema- todes, contaminate potable water, by means of which vehicle they reach the human organism. “ Filarial periodicity” must not be overlooked when searching for these hfematozoa in any suspected case, since they only begin to appear at sunset, increase in numbers until midnight, then diminish until about 10 o’clock in the forenoon, after which it is rarely possible to detect them. By changing the habits of eating and sleeping, it has been alleged that an “inversion” of this process can be effected. Manson’s theory of elephantoid diseases seems to give the best explanation, and is as follows: “ 1st, parent filaria in a distal lym- phatic; 2d, premature expulsion of ova; 3d, embolism of lymphatic glands by ova;7 4th, stasis of lymph; 5th, regurgitation of lymph and partial compensation by anastomoses; 6th, renewed or continued ex- pulsion of ova; 7th, further embolism of glands.”8 1 Gazeta Medica da Bahia, Dec., 186S, p. 99. 2 On a Haematozoon Inhabiting Human Blood, its Relations to Chyluria and other Diseases : by T. R. Lewis, Eighth Ann. Report Sanitary Com. with Government of India, 1871, Ap- pendix E, Calcutta, 1872; See also Quain’s Med. Diet., art. Chyluria. I would here express my indebtedness to W. M. Mastin’s article on Filaria Sanguinis Hominis in the Annals of Sur- gery, vol. viii., p. 321, for the information contained in this abstract. 3 Cobbold, Parasites, A Treatise on the Entozoa of Man and Animals, including Some Account of Ectozoa, p. 186. London, 1879. 4 Sir J. Fayrer, On the Relation of Filaria Sanguinis Hominis to the Endemic Diseases of India. Lancet, Feb. 8, 1879, p. 188. 5 Indian Medical Gazette, Sept. 1, 1877. 6 Chinese Imperial Customs Med. Reports, No. XIV., 1878. 1 The semi-spherical ovum when coiled up in its sheath cannot passthrough the glands, while the outstretched embryos, having a diameter about that of a lymph-cell, can readily pass and do not block the lymph current. 3 This may be complete, preventing any filariae from reaching the blood, explaining their ab- sence in that fluid in certain cases where they abound in the lymphatics.