INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 998 following after injury. The prognosis is best in those cases which de- velop slowly. Mr. Jacobson 1 states that, as a rule, the retro-peritoneal glands and viscera will be involved by extension and secondary desposits within six month of the time of castration. Nevertheless, a useful life may be prolonged; the patient, rid of a wearisome encumbrance, is made more comfortable; and death is not accompanied by the same distress to both patient and friends as when the disease is seated externally. Monod,2 from a study of twenty-six cases of malignant disease in children, gives the time of death as from six months to a year. Lympho-Sarcomata are different from ordinary sarcomata in that they resemble in microscopic structure enlarged lymphatic glands. They are very malignant, spreading rapidly and soon killing the patient. They occur most often in the young. The following exam- ple, however, occurred in a man aged seventy years.3 A physician applied to Mr. Hutchinson to remove an enlarged testicle which he thought had been injured by bruising, as he was fond of hunting; there was, however, no history of definite traumatism. The testicle was enlarged to about the size of a hen’s egg, and felt heavy and firm. It had been noticed for six months and was steadily increasing. On removal it appeared simply hypertrophied and hardened. The lobules and tubes wrere seen with remarkable distinctness, and on a larger scale than usual. On microscopic examination the growth appeared like, and was supposed to be, simple chronic inflammatory induration. In eigh- teen months after the operation, however, the patient returned with disease of the remaining testicle. It also was removed, being the size of a small fist. It exhibited a grayish-brown surface and was moder- ately firm in structure. Two years subsequently, he slipped in de- scending some steps, and soon afterward a growth appeared in the head of the tibia; spontaneous fracture occurred, and ultimately tumors developed in the subcutaneous tissue of several parts. He died about two and a half years after the second operation, and six years after the first. Mr. Parker and Dr. Shattock, who examined the testi- cle last removed, reported it to be a lympho-sarcoma. The structure of the new tissue was quite uniform, and of the most typical lymphoid kind. The reticulum between the individual cells of the growth was beautifully seen. There was nowhere the least indication of any trans- formation of the new substance into fibrous tissue, the cells of which substance are uniform in size and shape, and exhibit no enlargement, elongation, or other fibro-plastic changes. Myo-Sarcoma.—This name has been given to those spindle-celled sarcomata in which the spindle cells have exhibited transverse stria- tions. They are quite rare, and most of the cases have occurred in young children. In reference to treatment, it is well to bear in mind Mr. Butlin’s advice, and risk an incision into an inflamed testicle rather than delay the removal of a malignant tumor. Epithelioma of the Testis.—Epithelioma does not affect the testicle primarily, but may only involve it secondarily by extension from adja- cent parts. 1 Diseases of the Male Organs of Generation, p. 407. ? Le Progres Medical, 1884. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xl., p. 193.