HYPERTROPHY OP THE PROSTATE. 917 causes of prostatic overgrowth. He insists that residual urine always precedes prostatic hypertrophy, and that the presence of this residual urine is due to some alteration in the shape of the bladder itself. In early life the bladder is almost an abdominal organ; as years go by it descends lower and lower into the pelvis, until m some instances the depression goes so far that the posterior wall is on a lower plane than the outlet of the organ. The bladder rises and falls in the pelvis, while the prostate is fixed by the triangular and pubo-prostatic liga- ments. As soon as the posterior wall or floor of the bladder, which by reason of its anatomical relations and absence of muscular tissue has little power of contraction, sinks below the level of the outlet of this vis- cus, incomplete evacuation of the bladder can only be prevented by re- peated efforts of adjacent muscles. “This will eventually lead,” says Mr. Harrison, “to the development of a strong muscular buttress be- tween the orifices of the ureters, and also I believe to similar changes in the muscular tissue so largely entering into the prostate, and prin- cipally affecting its posterior segment.” I have repeatedly seen this inter-ureteral bar in post-mortem examinations, and during supra- pubic cystotomy for prostatic obstruction. The prostatic hypertrophy in many of these cases is, as Mr. Harrison says, compensatory. It is simply an increased development of muscular tissue to aid in the ex- pulsion of urine. In about one case in twenty, according to the fig- ures of Sir Henry Thompson just cited, tissue production is excessive, and the overgrowth of the prostate itself becomes an obstruction to the passage of urine. The overgrowth of the prostate may be general, involving every portion of the organ, and along with this are very often found tumors, fibro-myomatous in character, like those found in the uterus. The increase may be due to hypertrophy of the muscular, fibrous, or glan- dular structure. The overgrowth may be confined to the so-called middle lobe, and may be sessile or pedunculated, or one or both lateral lobes may be enlarged. When one is involved, the urethra is deflected or twisted. When both lobes are overgrown the urethra may be reduced to a slit or chink, and very often large fibrous masses of prostatic tissue are pushed up into the bladder, giving rise to symp- toms of stone or foreign body. Sometimes the projection into the bladder is, as McGill describes it, “a uniform circular enlargement surrounding the internal orifice of the urethra, like a collar.” If the hypertrophy does not interfere with the lumen of the urethra, no trouble arises. If obstruction to the function of micturition exists, then symptoms arise, which may become alarming and threaten life. During the last few years a number of operations have been sug- gested for the relief of the symptoms following prostatic hypertrophy. No drug has been found to relieve the enlargement. Interstitial injec- tions of iodine, ergot, sclerotic acid, and other agents have been used, but without success or even benefit. Electricity has also been employed in different ways, and some good results are claimed for it. Its appli- cation is painful, and at best, in the present state of our knowledge, its effects are uncertain. Newman uses the electro-cautery, which he applies to the mucous lining of the prostate. He says that he has accomplished much good by it, but that many applications are required.