CYSTITIS. 913 spersed with long, thready, streamer-like filaments which float about freely in the urine. These appearances vary but little in cases of acute cystitis of other origin. The results of modern scientific research, especially in the field of bacteriology, have been of especial value in the study of genito-urinary disease. Most of the points which will be referred to regarding the pathogenesis of inflammation of the bladder, apply equally well to other portions of the genito-urinary tract. Pasteur had a very clear idea of the truth regarding urinary infection over twenty years ago. In 1875 he publicly expressed the opinion that urinary infection was due to pathogenic microbes accidentally introduced into the bladder. He said at that time, during the progress of the discussion in the Parisian Academy, “ If I had the honor to be a surgeon I would never introduce an instrument into a patient's bladder without having observed the most rigid precaution to avoid the introduction of germs from the external atmosphere.” Within the past few years the researches of such authorities as Bumm, Clado, Albarran, Halle, Krogius, Rovsing, and Guyon, have shown conclusively the relation of microbial infection to infectious processes of the genito-urinary tract. -In 1886 Bumm reported eight cases of puerperal cystitis, in which he found a micrococcus common to all. Halle,1 in a good review of the subject, says that in his opinion the microbe discovered by Bumm was probably the Staphylococcus aureus. Clado,2 in 1887, isolated from pathological urine a bacillus which he described as a septic form of vesical bacterium. He experimented upon animals with this bacillus, and produced cystitis by its introduction into the bladder. Injection of the same micro-organism into the peritoneum resulted in the death of the animal. In 1887 Halle reported a case which admirably illustrated the im- portant bearing of microbial infection upon chronic inflammation of the bladder. This patient was affected by impermeable stricture, with an intense cystitis, and presented, following each attempt at forcible catheterization, violent febrile complications which finally resulted in death. The purulent urine collected and cultivated during life fur- nished in a condition of purity a culture for a non-liquefying bacterium. At the autopsy the same bacterium was found in a condition of purity in the pelvis of the kidney, in the parenchyma of the kidney, and in miliary abscesses in the renal structure. Albarran and Halle,3 in a series of joint studies of urinary infection, found this same bacterium in 47 out of 50 examinations of pathological urine. In 35 urines, studied by culture, 15 contained this bacterium in a condition of purity, while in 20 other cases it was associated with other micro-organisms. By injection of a pure culture into the bladder the authors produced acute cystitis in animals. In 1890 Krogius4 discovered a peculiar microbe in purulent ammo- niacal urine, and he termed it the Urobacillus liquefaciens septicus. As illustrative of the many types of germs to be found in pathological 1 Annales des Maladies des Organes Urinaires, Fevrier, 1892. 2 Bull, de la Soc. Anat., Octobre, 1887. Quoted byLydston in Transactions of the South- ern Surgical and Gynaecological Association. 3 Bulletin de l’Acad. de Medecine, 21 Aout, 1888. 4 Soc. de Biologie, 23 Juillet, 1890. •VOL. VII.—58