95 SEPTICAEMIA. from the blood. In the lung he found the staphylococcus aureus and citreus. Hauser has given us reports of the morphological and biological be- havior of three bacteria of putrefaction, called by him proteus vulgaris, p. mirabilis, and p. Zenkeri. From small rods, similar to the bacterium termo (Cohn), longer rods, good-sized, threads, and spiral forms are developed upon a proper medium, and upon exhausting the latter, fall apart in short rods and forms like cocci, which are probably spores. These three bacteria of putrefaction, isolated from putrid substances, always produced putrid decomposition, while the filtrate without the bacterium had no decomposing (saprogenous) effects. Experiments upon the pathogenous qualities of the above-mentioned bacteria, and their relation to septicaemia, led to the conclusion that they produced a virulent chemical poison, very small quantities of which, introduced into the vascular and lymphatic systems, were able to kill small animals with the symptoms of putrid intoxication. The above-mentioned sap- rophytic bacteria are not pathogenous, that is, are not capable of grow- ing within the living animal. Rosenbach also cultivated three sapro- genous bacilli in pure cultivations, two of them having strong toxic qualities. Experiments of Semmer, M. J. Rossbach, and Rosenberger, have shown that the injection of ferments, as, for instance, of papayotin or of sterilized septic blood, produces fatal sepsis with development of bac- teria in the blood of the animal. I have myself injected sterilized putrid urine with the same results. These experiments would seem to prove that the injection of such putrid substances changes the condition of the blood to such an extent that bacteria develop in it, which other- wise, under normal conditions, are not able to develop in either the blood or the tissues. Yon Bergmann and Angerer have made interesting communications concerning the relation of ferment intoxication to septicaemia. Al. Schmidt, A. Kohler, Edelberg, Birk, and others had always observed the same symptoms during life and after death, from transfusing a blood over-rich in ferment, or from injecting fibrinous ferment into the vascular system of animals, as those caused by injecting putrid liquids, or such as had been rendered turbid by bacterial vegetation. The dis- turbances thus caused consisted principally in the dissolution of large quantities of white blood-corpuscles with secondary excretion of fibrin in the capillaries, in the large pulmonary vessels, and in the heart. Von Bergmann and Angerer produced the same disturbances by injection of large doses of sterile, clear solutions of pepsin and pancreatin. The severe ferment intoxications rapidly lead to death, with symptoms of putrid intoxication. The effects of pure ferments are thus similar to those produced by the pathogenous bacteria, that is, they destroy the white blood-corpuscles. Yon Bergmann and Angerer were not able to confirm the reports of Rosenberger and Rossbach, that bacteria devel- oped in the blood under the influence of sterilized solutions of ferments. The frequency of septicaemia in man has been very greatly diminished since the knowledge of the etiology of this and like diseases has enabled us in most cases to avoid it. The fact is, that in large, well-conducted hospitals, we now very rarely have an opportunity to study the symp- toms of this highly interesting affection. And we mus«t always remem-