704 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. belong more properly in the special treatises on otology. I may state here, however, that while ossiculectomy has now won for itself an accepted position as a valuable therapeutic procedure in cases of chronic discharge from the middle ear, the value of both this and stapedec- tomy, in the treatment of non-purulent cases of middle-ear disease, has not yet been demonstrated. Of the numerous remedies discovered during the last ten years a few have proved extremely useful to the aural surgeon. Perhaps the most conspicuous of these is the peroxide of hydrogen, a most useful intra- tympanic cleansing fluid. There are also several new remedies, in the form of powders, which have met with considerable favor at the hands of aural surgeons. It is still doubtful, however, whether any one of these can be assigned a higher place, in the scale of usefulness, than boric acid and iodoform. Finally, the technique of the mastoid operation is now well settled; the superiority of the chiselling over the boring method being almost universally admitted. In view of the limited amount of space which in this volume can properly be devoted to the discussion of otological matters, I propose to restrict myself almost wholly to the consideration of the topic last mentioned. Such a course, furthermore, commends itself to me with special force for the reason that the account which I have given of this operation in my previous article is in many re- spects faulty. Technique of the Mastoid Operation. Instruments Required.—The cowhide mallet sold in the instrument shops is every way more satisfactory than that of steel (with lead fill- ing). It is a much lighter tool to handle, and yet with it the operator can readily force the chisel through the densest bone tissue. One can work more quickly with chisels than with gouges, and they are much easier to keep sharp. Six chisels of three different sizes—that is, of three different breadths at the cutting edge—and one or two small gouges will serve as an adequate supply. The broadest chisel should not exceed inch (about 5 mm.) in breadth, and the smallest of the three should have a breadth of a little over Ta¥ inch (2 mm.). The lower part of the chisel, down to the base of the cutting edge, should be quite thick (see Fig. 1703), so as to prevent any springing on the part of the instrument, and also so as to facilitate the sharpening of the cut- ting edge. Chisels for mastoid work should be kept very sharp. Volkmcinn's spoons (Fig. 1700), with broad and strong handles of hollow steel or aluminium, are extremely useful in removing the deeper bone tissue ordinarily encountered in mastoid processes. The bowls should have sharp cutting edges and should be of three different sizes, viz., about 8 mm., 7 mm., and 1 mm. in diameter. Silver or hard-rubber canulas about 4 inches in length, slightly bent at one extremity, and broadening out into a bulbous mass at the other (for the purpose of connecting it with the rubber tubing of some form of douche or syringe), are needed for irrigation purposes. Two sizes (2 mm. and a little over 1 mm. in diameter) are sufficient. The mastoid hook gtiide, pictured in Fig. 1701, serves the purpose of a trustworthy landmark, by means of which the operator can know, at any moment during the