DEFORMITIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 551 Deformity of the Lower Extremities from Muscular Contraction. Severe grades of muscular contracture frequently take place at the knee, hip, and ankle as a result of infantile paralysis, of spastic paraly- sis, hip-joint and ankle-joint disease, injuries, etc. These contractions are frequently so great as to place the limb mechanically in such a flexed position that walking would be impossible even were the muscles in their ordinary condition of strength and vigor. The straight position, therefore, becomes necessary. The deformity should be overcome by section of the contracted tissues, whether fasciie, tendons, or muscles. In section in front of the hip, the tensor vaginae femoris and the sartorius and rectus may be divided with perfect safety; but in severe grades, where the band is in close proximity to the anterior crural nerve, open division is safer. Under thorough aseptic precautions no suppuration will follow. Never should section of the iliacus and psoas be under- taken except by the open method. The adductors, as a rule, can be divided subcutaneously. Thorough attention should be given to strict cleanliness of the parts. At the knee, when the hamstring tendons alone are divided, the only care necessary is in regard to the external popliteal nerve, which may be felt upon the inner side of the biceps ten- don. When, as is frequently the case, the fascia of the popliteal space is contracted, open incision with strict asepsis is the only safe method. In the treatment following division of the adductors, it is impossible for any splint to hold the thighs apart unless the knees are fixed. A simple dressing of plaster-of-Paris fixes the knees, after which the limbs may be fastened wide apart until the gap in the adductors has been filled with fibrous tissue. At the ankle and foot all contracted tissues are to be divided, follow- ing the rules indicated in the remarks on paralytic talipes. By such simple operations many cases of contracture following the different forms of paralysis may be very greatly benefited, and patients long helpless may be restored to a good walking basis. At first it is impossible to do without artificial helps, such as braces, wheeled crutches,1 and axillary crutches; but exercise will soon develop the muscles. While the shock of multiple tenotomies is considerable, yet the results to be secured justify the slight risks. In cerebral spastic palsy tre- phining the skull is indicated only in cases with decided cranial de- pression, especially when there is a history of traumatism at birth or afterward. Bony deformities following joint disease may be corrected by forcible straightening, by osteotomy, or by excision. Deformities of the Upper Extremities. Division of the tendons of the upper extremities, at wrist, hand, or fingers, is rarely as successful as tenotomy in the lower extremities. ’Bradford and Lovett, Orthopaedic Surgery, 1st ed., p. 59; Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1891, page 382.