STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 959 tion, Parker 1 adopted the skin-flap method with satisfactory results. He raised a flap on both sides of the gap. That on the left side was nearly one inch wide, and that on the right was barely one-eighth of an inch. The large flap was turned over with its epidermal surface inward, and sutured with many catgut sutures to the edge of the smaller flap, completing the urethral tube along the whole defect. The skin of the scrotum was then dissected up all around the resulting wound, and was used to cover in the raw surface of the reflected flap and the place from which it was raised. (2) Transplantation of Mucous Membrane.—E. L. Keyes,2 of New York, in a case of extensive dense stricture, with fistulse, resorted to the method suggested by Mensel—transplantation of the inner layer of the prepuce. The stricture, which extended from in front of the bulb to well back under the symphysis pubis, was excised, together with all morbid tissues and fistulous tracts. To fill in the large deficiency left in the urethra, he transplanted a piece of the inner layer of the care- fully sterilized prepuce measuring one and a half by two inches. This was sutured into the gap by four catgut sutures anteriorly, and at several lateral points. No sutures were placed posteriorly, because it was impossible to reach the prostatic end of the urethra. The blad- der was drained by a tube passed from the perineum, and, in order to effect coaptation of the flap by rounded pressure, he placed in the an- terior urethra a drainage-tube, bringing its end against the bladder drain. The case did well. One year later a No. 21 sound could be passed. The point of union of the graft with the healthy urethra could he detected as a fibrous, strictured ring. Treatment of Stricture of the Urethra by Electrolysis.— The application of electrolytic action in the treatment of stricture, the current bring directly applied by means of a bulbous electrode passed into the strictured area, was first advocated by Newman, twenty years ago, and has since invited the attention of a number of clinical in- vestigators. The contributed results of experience with the method have, however, been markedly contradictory. The advantages claimed for it are probably best set forth in one of his later contributions by Newman3 himself, who asserts that the results are not due to dilatation with the electrode, but to a galvano- chemical absorption of the stricture tissue; that the treatment is ap- plicable to all strictures in any part of the urethra; that he has often succeeded by it in passing strictures in which failure had resulted from other surgical treatment; that it is free from pain and inconve- nience, as well as from danger; that it gives immediate relief, and that no relapse takes place.4 The causes of failure with the method he attrib- utes to, first, lack of skill on the part of the operator as to both use of the instruments and management of the electric current; secondly to mistaken diagnosis; and thirdly, to faulty instruments. In England the method was carefully taken up by Steavenson and W. B. Clarke, who obtained results substantiating Newman’s claims/ 1 Liverpool Med.-Cliir. Journ., 1888, vol. viii., p. 515. 2Journ. Cutaneous and Genito-TJrin. Dis., 1891, vol. ix., p. 401. 3 Brit. Med. Journ., 1887, vol. ii., p. 172. 4 Trans. New York State Med. Assoc. (1885), 1886, vol. ii., p. 415. 5 Proc. Royal Med.-Chir. Soc. London, 1885-86, n. s., vol. ii. Practitioner, 1886, vol. xxxvii., p. 186.