23 SUPPURATION. same result in every case in which he could exclude sources of error, and as a result of a long series he has discovered certain interesting properties of the white corpuscles, which he summarizes as follows: “ First, the leucocyte is endowed with a special sensibility to electricity. I propose to give to this property the name of galvanotaxism. Second, the galvanotaxism of the normal leucocyte guides it with a marked preference toward the positive pole (positive galvanotaxism). Third, the galvanotaxism of the leucocyte in inflammation directs it, on the contrary, toward the negative pole (negative galvanotaxism).” These experiments are of the greatest value and interest, as tending to show the relationship of the action of the leucocytes and phagocytes (for we have seen they are not necessarily the same thing) toward ex- citation of various kinds, and also as tending to uphold that theory of inflammation which forms the keynote of this paper. Suppuration. Suppuration being hut a part of the same process of inflammation, but carried further, may next claim some attention; and in the same way as inflammation, must this process be considered from a new point of view, as is well illustrated by Shattock1 in his remarks before the London Pathological Society, in which he claims that the time has ar- rived for a revolution in the terms at present in use, as applied to sup- puration. The terms suppuration and pus are purely anatomical, and include things quite different in their etiology. Setting aside larger questions, the process of acute suppuration can be etiologically distinguished from other forms, and is as specific in its nature as tuberculosis or syphilis, as is now well established by experiment. Koch’s four postulates can all be fulfilled in this case, and the doctrine can be confirmed by the control experiment of introducing aseptic chemical irritants beneath the skin of animals, which, if the animals are healthy, produces in- flammation, but not suppuration. A strict parallel can be drawn be- tween tuberculosis in its different manifestations and acute suppuration, which is given in tabular form thus: Tuberculosis. Local. Glandular. General. Pyosis. Local. Secondary Glandular Abscess. General. Acute Circumscribed Abscess. Diffuse Suppuration. In order to bring out these facts, Shattock suggested the term, Pyosis.” Generalized Pyosis will then be what is named Pyaemia; Glandular Pyosis will denote the secondary glandular infections; and the acute abscess or acute suppuration of a bowel will be Pyosis in a local form. Shattock also speaks of certain observations on the presence of peptone in the pus of acute abscess. This can best be demonstrated by shaking 'Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 6, 1892.