SPINA BIFIDA. 655 Unfortunately, sessile spinal tumors are most common. The presence of the cord elements in the sac renders operative interference much more serious, and the resultant nervous symptoms are far more dangerous and fatal. Whenever the inferior extremities are paralzyed, or poorly nourished, the existence of cord structures in the sac is almost certain, and opera- tion then offers far less hope of success. Morton's fluid is superior to Brainard’s, as sterilized glycerin is less diffusible than water. Unfortunately, Morton’s eighty per cent, of successful cases do not seem to be continued by the report of the Lon- don Clinical Society, which gives only fifty per cent; but even one-half of selected cases cured is not a had showing for so serious a condition. It can be set down as a universal rule that successful operations are more liable to be reported than fatal ones. It should not be forgotten that speedy death has followed these injections. The most scrupulous cleanliness must be enforced, and leakage should be prevented, if neces- sary, by finger pressure for hours after the operation. This form of treatment is not hopeful in paraplegic cases. Contraction and solidifi- cation of the sac will warrant repetition of the injection. Ligation, either with an elastic rubber cord, or with silk or catgut, is now but seldom practised, having been largely superseded by injection or excision. The use of the seton has been entirely discarded. Occasion- ally, but very rarely, a cure follows spontaneous rupture.1 Excision.—-Within the past decade operative attempts having in view the removal of the sac and the closing of the abnormal opening in the bony canal have been renewed. These operations have been chiefly modifications of old plans, but have been rendered more hopeful in their results by strict attention to antiseptic precautions. These results, as indicated in an elaborate table made for me by Dr. John H. Rhein, show that of 103 patients with spina bifida operated upon by various methods of dissection and excision, 31 died, 63 were cured, and 9 im- proved; of these cases 18 were in the lumbar region, 11 in the sacro-lum- bar, 31 in the sacral, 1 in the dorsal, and 6 in the cervical; 27 of the pa- tients were operated upon in the first week of life, 12 in the first month, 61 within the first six months, and 75 within the first year. The opera- tions under one week gave 9 deaths and 18 cures. One child was only two days old, and nine months afterward was reported as well, with no palsy; yet, it seems unjustifiable to submit so young a child to so serious an operation, especially when but little harm could result from delay. The first reported operation which I have discovered was done by Sherwood, in 1811. The patient was six days old and recovered. In 13 operations reported in Hildebrand’s clinic, 10 were for meningocele and 3 for myelocystocele. Three patients died from the operation and one subsequently. Ten were discharged cured; one was reported well twelve years afterward, and the remaining eight were living and well. Among these were two with myelocystocele. The third with myelo- cystocele lived three months, when the tumor recurred and the child also became hydrocephalic.2 In cases accompanied by paraplegia, or when hydrocephalus exists, an operation is rarely of benefit. 1 Knox, Lancet, 1894, vol. i., p. 472. -Trans German Surg. Congress, 1893; Amer. Med.-Surg. Bulletin, June, 1893; Archiv f. klin. Chirurgie, Berlin, 1893, Bd. xlv., S. 200.