OPHTHALMOSCOPIC DISEASES. 697 ment that is more abundant at the temporal edge. It is lighter than the surrounding fundus, and with different shades of color on its own surface. Optic neuritis is divided into papillitis, in which the papilla alone is affected, and papillo-retinitis, or neuro-retinitis in which the retina also is involved. Papillitis is generally caused by cerebral disease, though this may also cause neuro-retinitis. The papilla is swollen and hypersemic, it has a striated and rough appearance, and its edges are frequently ob- scured. The veins are distended and tortuous, while the arteries are not changed in size, or are smaller, and often disappear under the swol- len tissues. The transparency is much less than normal, and the promi- nence, which is at times considerable, may be approximately measured by allowing 1 mm. for every 3 D. The amount of swelling is not always in relation to the loss of vision, for at times, when swelling is greatest, vision may for the time be unaffected, but sooner or later it commences to fail and may be entirely lost. Optic Neuritis.—Sudden loss of vision has other causes than the swell- ing, whereas gradual diminution may be caused by compression. The field of vision is often concentrically narrowed or irregular, and at times more affected on the temporal than on the nasal side, while the color sense is lost to a considerable extent. Cerebral papillitis is usually bilateral, but has occurred on one side in cases reported by Hughlings Jackson in brain tumors involving the opposite hemisphere. Extreme swelling of the nerve has been known as “choked disk,” and was sup- posed to be different from descending neuritis, but the distinction is untenable. Optic neuritis is caused most frequently by brain tumors, next by meningitis, hemorrhage (rare), hydrocephalus (uncommon), and at times by purulent inflammation of the middle ear, softening of the brain, and rarely by abscess. Valude reports a case of burn in the third degree upon which iodoform was used. This was followed by blindness, optic neuritis, atrophy, diarrhoea, headache, and vomiting. Afterward some vision was recovered, but no color perception. As to the true relation between papillitis and brain disease there has been some con- trovers}’, but Leber says, that intra-cranial tumors, as also tuberculosis, give rise to congestion of the vessels, secretory inflammation, hydrops ventriculorum, and increased pressure. The products of tissue-change of these neoplasms become mingled with inflammatory stimulus, and, passing with the cerebro-spinal fluid into the intravaginal space of the optic nerve as far as the eye, give rise there to neuritis and papil- litis. The entire nerve may be inflamed, but owing to the collection of irritative fluid at the end, the most intense reaction occurs there. Retro bulbar neuritis has perhaps similar pathological conditions, but the papilla is little if at all affected. There is central scotoma, but it is not so regular as that of toxic amblyopia, nor is it confined to the same area, but may extend to the inner side of the point of fixation. Again it occurs generally in but one eye, though both may be affected, and it is equally common in men and women. It may be confounded with toxic amblyopia, but the scotoma audits monocular character are differential points. The prognosis is less favorable, and but less than half of the acute cases recover. The treatment must depend upon the cause. Tumors of the brain, if located, may be removed, as this branch of