59 WOUND-TREATMENT. it takes from three to four hours to destroy them by dry heat of 140° C. II. Circulating steam loses much of its disinfecting power when superheated without pressure. When its temperature is 140° C. it is not much more potent than dry air at the same temperature. III. The strongest disinfecting agent is superheated steam under pressure. When used in this way, all air should be expelled from the disinfecting chamber before the steam is put under pressure, as other- wise its sterilizing power will be much reduced. To insure the most rapid and powerful action of steam, the thermometer and steam pres- sure gauge should always correspond in their indications—for example, at 240° F., the pressure ought to he about ten pounds to the square inch; then the steam in the disinfecting chamber will be saturated, and consequently most powerful. In the construction of sterilizing apparatuses for surgical dressings, all these conclusions have been turned to advantage. In large hospi- tals, where a great amount of sterilized material for dressings is re- quired, the somewhat expensive permanent apparatuses employed in some of the hospitals in New York, notably the Roosevelt and Presby- terian, answer an excellent purpose. They work with superheated steam under pressure, and supply absolutely sterile materials. But where simplicity of procedure is imperative, sterilization by circulating steam will be found entirely sufficient. It certainly will put the dressings into fully as aseptic a condition as the means now employed in the sterilization of other things that come in contact with wounds (hands, catgut, etc.), and it will certainly destroy all those germs which are responsible for wound-infection in general. The apparatuses which have been devised for sterilization with cir- culating steam are numerous. It cannot lie within the scope of this article to mention the variations in size and shape to which the inven- tive genius of some surgeons has subjected the original steam-pot of Robert Koch. An apparatus which answers quite well is the familiar Arnold steam sterilizer. Schimmelbusch was, I believe, the first to embody in a practical way the principles of sterilization by circulating steam in the construction of his well-known sterilizer for dressings. It consists in the main of two copper cylinders of unequal size (Fig. 1564), the space B between the two being utilized as a reservoir for water. The latter is filled at ill, and the glass tube $ indicates the quantity of water in the reservoir. It is sufficient to fill it to about half its capacity. The gauze to be sterilized is placed in metal boxes, shown in Fig. 1564, a certain number of which fit into the sterilizer. They are provided, at their upper and lower parts, with apertures in the shape of a band which can be opened and closed. These are opened before the box is placed in the sterilizer, to allow the steam to enter. Then the apparatus is firmly closed and heated. The water becoming warm, also warms the gauze before the latter is steamed, which almost entirely prevents condensation of aqueous vapor on its surface. When the water boils, steam passes through small openings at the top of the inner cylinder (not shown in the illustration) into the disinfecting chamber O, and then in the direction of the arrows through the previ- ously heated gauze, leaving the apparatus by the tube R. This in turn ends in a condenser N, filled with cold water, thus preventing the