793 LYMPHOID HYPERTROPHY OF THE VAULT OF THE PHARYNX. be due to this cause, and, indeed, Lennox Browne makes the assertion that almost all, if not all, subjects of laryngismus stridulus or false croup will he found to be mouth-breathers. I cannot agree to this state- ment, for although many reflex neuroses depend upon some point of irritation in the upper air-passages, many children with enlargement of the pharyngeal tonsil show no tendency to reflex disturbance in the larynx. On the other hand, when a child is forced to breathe through its mouth through an obstruction of the nostrils or posterior nasal space, we should naturally expect that pathological conditions of the lower throat would result. The respired air is no longer filtered and warmed as when it passes through the natural respiratory passage, and the unnatural efforts of the child in mouth breathing will have a ten- dency to develop any neurosal tendency which may exist. The pres- ence of a neurosal tendency or habit will be a necessary factor in producing the disturbance, and when this exists, the lymphoid hyper- trophy of the pharyngeal tonsil, especially when it is the subject of catarrhal inflammation or hyperiemia and thus presents a sensitive surface, may well be the provoking cause of the laryngeal neurosis. The same explanation may be given of those cases of asthma which have been ascribed to this pathological condition of the naso-pharynx. That the obstruction of the nostrils, especially when it is great and continued for a long time, has a most unfavorable effect on the develop- ment and growth of the body, has been fully established. It is especially in the earlier years that we find evil resulting from this continuance. In infants, mouth breathing is an unnatural, persistent effort. An insufficient amount of air enters the lungs, and they are not distended to their full capacity. The bony framework of the chest suffers through inaction, and there is a constant tendency to thoracic deformity. The antero-posterior diameter is flattened, and in some cases there is sink- ing in of the sternum. With an insufficient amount of air respired, the general growth and development must suffer, and we find many of the general symptoms referable to malnutrition, and especially to the tendency to develop any neurotic habit which may have been inherited. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of lymphoid hypertrophy of the pharyn- geal vault will be easy when the development of the growth occludes the nasal passages. The open mouth and facial deformity indicate the disease. When the amount of lymphoid tissue is not sufficient to en- tirely close the nasal passages the diagnosis is less easy, and the con- dition must be differentiated from obstruction of both the anterior and the posterior nares. Various methods have been given by which this can be accomplished. A rhinoscopical examination, if possible, will at once settle the diagnosis. Anterior examination of the nostrils is not so satisfactory, as frequently hypersemia of the membrane and hyper- trophy are concomitant conditions. The application of cocaine will reduce the hypersemia, but has no effect upon the hypertrophy. It is proposed by some to examine the posterior pharynx by means of the finger. A soft earth-worm feeling is given to the finger when soft growths are present, and the hard, tumor-like growths can be at once de- tected. If this was always possible or advisable, no other measures, for the purpose of diagnosis, would be necessary. Any one, however, who has had a short, thick finger introduced into the mouth and through the