453 INFECTIOUS OSTEOMYELITIS. lary cavity in two dogs. In these cases also the pus contained no bacteria. Pathological Anatomy of Osteomyelitis.—There are four stages in a typical attack of acute osteomyelitis; the first is that of localiza- tion of the infectious or exciting agent. This is a period not subject to observation, and one about which practically nothing is known. The second stage is that of the local outbreak, consisting in the ordi- nary process of inflammation in the bone, that is, in the medulla of the bone. After this, the inflammatory process passes to the third stage, that of encapsulation of the abscess, and the formation of sequestra. The fourth stage is that of repair, which corresponds precisely to that of other forms of osteitis in which there is dead material to be carried away or extruded from the body, and in which the products of hyper- activity of the tissues are to be disposed of. In the second stage, that of purulent infiltration, there is an inflam- mation of the bone marrow which is not distributed over a large sur- face, but is strung along in multiple foci in which the hypersemia is well-marked; and in addition there are often small extravasations of blood. These are usually in proportion to the severity and extent of the attack. The foci of inflammation break down by the formation of pus, and this process progresses in the direction of the junction of the diaphysis with the epiphysis, and toward the periosteum, which is infil- trated and often elevated by the inflammatory products, forming swell- ings of greater or less size. The extent to which the periosteum is ele- vated usually marks the extent to which the inflammatory process has gone in the interior of the bone. From the periosteum, the products of inflammation may make their way to the surface through the soft parts. The inflammatory process may also proceed to the joint ends of the bone and break down the epiphyseal cartilage. In children the disease often stops short at this cartilage, while in adults it is more likely to pass over into the articular epiphysis and even break into the joint. It is interesting to note that the progress to the joint is always from the medulla, and through the epiphysis, never by means of the perios- teum exclusively. Roser has asserted that the disease may begin as an inflammation of the joint and pass from the joint to the bone. Ullmann does not share this opinion, but believes that careful examina- tion of specimens shows that it is a mistaken one. As osteomyelitis progresses from the diaphysis to the epiphysis it frequently breaks down their junction, so that they are movable, the one upon the other. When the joint is affected, the further progress of the case is like that of other inflammations of the articulation. The third stage of osteomyelitis is that of encapsulation and the formation of sequestra. This is ushered in by the interposition of an inflammatory barrier in the sound tissue, in which the disease does not progress. At this point, the already affected tissue is separated by absorption from the living tissue, and there is formed an abscess cavity containing pus, debris, and sequestra. On section, a bone in this stage of osteomyelitis shows bright red and dark red portions, alternating with yellow and suppurating portions of varying size and form, stretching along the medullary cavity and spongy tissue like beads upon a neck- lace. Toward the end of the bones there are no real abscess cavities,