216 TUMORS. nuclear dyes and hematoxylin; in fact, its reactions correspond to those observed by Pfeiffer in the coccidia of the rabbit. Moreover, with some dyes it assumes a different color from the cell nuclei in the same sections, for instance, turning blue with the Ehrlich-Biondi mixture which stained the nucleus and nucleolus of the epithelial cell red. Several other differential staining tests have been discovered, such as hematoxylin and cochineal, in which the nucleolus of the epithelial cell stains blue, while the parasitic nucleus takes up the cochineal. Various appearances have been observed which are supposed to represent mul- tiplication by division and the formation of spores. It appears certain that these bodies, whatever their true nature may he, are not the mere vacuoles formed in the protoplasm of cells, espe- cially under the influence of irritation, which have been recently so well studied in both epithelium and cartilage by Power, for it would be im- possible to explain their complicated staining peculiarities under that supposition. Ruffer does not admit the observations of Arnold, from which the latter deduced the theory of a method of formation of new cells inside the parent cell following the fragmentation of the nucleus described by him, and this adverse opinion of endogenous cell-formation appears to be quite generally held by pathologists. Ruffer thinks that this appearance of endogenous formation can be best explained by the common features of cell invagination. The last-named peculiarity of cells, by which one cell projects more or less into the body of another neighboring cell, Ruffer considers will not only produce the appearance of endogenous formation, but will also produce the forms called para- sites by Delepine, Wickham, Darier, Albarran, Hutchinson, and Bowlby. But from his own cell-inclusions or “parasites” these are readily distinguished by the fact that they have dark nuclei which are easily stained by the nuclear dyes, which, as we have seen, do not readily stain the nuclei of the bodies described by Ruffer. Even when these invaginations have undergone degeneration, they show remains of chromatin and coarse protoplasm which are characteristic. It is true that they sometimes appear to have a capsule, owing to a double-con- toured boundary which forms between them and the cell into which they are invaginated, but this should not mislead. These cell-invagina- tions are common in the skin, and apparently they can be produced at will by oblique sections of the epithelium of the cornea. Finally, the bodies described cannot be due to the complicated chemicals used in pre- paring the specimens, because they are to be found in perfectly fresh, unprepared specimens. It would seem therefore that Ruffer and his fellow-workers have considered and eliminated all obvious sources of error, and it must be admitted that they have at least demonstrated a peculiar body in cancer cells, which resembles microscopically the coccidia. It is true that no cultures or inoculation experiments have yet been made, but it must be remembered that as yet we know of no method by which to cultivate any of the coccidia outside of the body. As to inoculation experiments, the question of the contagiousness of cancer is often confused with that of its supposed parasitic origin; but they are distinct issues, and it must not be forgotten that even if it should he impossible to adduce any instances of direct contagion, the disease might still be infectious and caused by a parasite. I shall have occa-