4 Trans. Amer. Orthopaedic Assoc., 1890, vol iii., p. 136. LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 00O the other is held at a right angle to the body; and still more, if with arms in the same position the trunk is flexed to a right angle with the thighs, and is then twisted to the right or left. The muscular movements that can be practised by the patient at home are exercises on a chest weight, with pulleys lowered to the floor so as to cause flexion and development of the posterior muscles; hori- zontal bar; trapeze or rings; dumb-bells, clubs, and self-suspension by head and arms, the hand upon the side of the concavity of the curve being placed uppermost on the rope. Other home exercises may be the various forms of Swedish move- ments; lying upon the abdomen with head and shoulders raised with- out assistance of the hands; lying with the body projecting over the edge of the table while the pelvis is held in position, etc. Horseback exercise (riding astride), rowing with both hands—or if with one hand using that on the debilitated side—tennis or croquet played with the hand on the concave side of the larger curve, swim- ming and other sports, are all beneficial if followed by a period of rest in the supine or prone position upon a flat couch. It is advisable that patients with lateral curvature should sit or stand but little; they should either walk or lie flat; in fact, recumbency should be insisted upon as an essential element of the treatment. Massage is helpful in connec- tion with Swedish movements, and forcible manipulation will accom- plish much. It is especially important that the backward and lateral flexibility of the spine should be increased. Under the direction of a surgeon, or of a teacher, the postural move- ments advised by Roth,1 Sayre,2 Bradford,3 Taylor,4 and others, may be employed with advantage. The patient should also be instructed in proper methods of sitting, lying, etc., a flat couch being the best for the supine position. A light book carried upon the head helps to secure a good carriage. (2) Mechanical Appliances.—Mechanical devices for lateral curva- ture have been invented by the score, but most of them are useless. Except when the spine is rapidly bending it does not need support; mus- cles require strengthening, not weakening. However, supports are occasionally necessary. Of the fixation or jacket supports, the appli- ance of Bartow is the most rational in cases of moderate deformity, since its action tends always to produce a normal conformation of figure. It is made by taking a plaster cast of the trunk while in a state of sus- pension, from which cast a counter cast or model is afterwards secured. This is then remodelled by paring away all abnormal projections and filling in with soft plaster all depressed portions, until the representa- tion of a normal figure is secured. Upon this more or less perfect model a leather jacket is fitted, which, when hardened, is adjusted to the pa- tient’s trunk. A plaster jacket is sometimes employed, though harmfully, unless pieces are cut out of it from time to time and straightening thus accom- plished, or unless it is applied under forcible restitution, effected in one of the methods described below. 1 Bernard Rotb, Lateral Curvature, p. 24. London, 1889. 5 Medical Record, Nov. 17, 1888, p. 538. 3 Bradford and Lovett, Orthopaedic Surgery, p. 160. 1890.