INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 962 penile urethra, where, by dissecting apart the corpora cavernosa, the roof of the canal may be reached. Two cases in which this operation was resorted to are reported by R. H. Harte.1 Urinary Fever—Pathogenesis and Treatment. Pathogenesis of Urinary Fever.—In recent years the pathology of urinary fever has been the subject of considerable investigation, the results of which have tended with singular uniformity to place the affection in the class of septic intoxications. In the light now thrown on the subject it seems that Velpeau, who, as Duplay remarks, at- tempted to explain certain urinary accidents on the ground that they were caused “by the re-entrance into the current of the circulation of some of the constituents of the urine,” was working in the direction of modern investigation. Maisonneuve, Sedillot, and Reliquet also fol- lowed in the same general line indicated by Velpeau, in their theory of the relationship between direct urinary absorption and urinary fever. Clinical studies made by Mr. Reginald Harrison 2 on the occurrence of urinary fever after the operation of internal urethrotomy, lead him to conclude that the phenomenon is to be attributed to the absorption of urine pent up in the wounded tissues. He found that the fever could be prevented in these cases by combining perineal drainage of the bladder with the internal division of the stricture, access of urine to the wounded tissue being so precluded. From his observations3 he reached the belief “ that the urine could provide septic material neces- sary for the production of urinary fever.” From the experimental standpoint much work has been done which establishes the relation of the urine itself to the evolution of an attack of urinary fever. Bou- chard, to whose elaborate investigations Harrison alludes, has found that there exist, even in normal urine, alkaloids, absorbed from the in- testinal tract, which render it toxic. Experimenting upon rabbits, he injected normal urine into a vein, and found that it produced a toxic condition manifested by contraction of the pupils, frequent and hurried respiration, reduction of temperature, diminished and finally abolished reflexes, and death, preceded by convulsions and coma. He calculates that a man excretes in two days and four hours enough of the toxic elements to cause his own death. He found that the action of the alkaloid secreted during the hours of sleep was convulsive in its effects, while that eliminated during the day was narcotic. Investigations of urine made from another standpoint—that of bacteriology—have furnished much useful knowledge bearing on the pathogenesis of urinary fever, and explain much that is inexplicable on any other grounds. Albarran and Halle 4 have discovered a bacterium, which they named the Bacterium pyogenes, that was present in forty- seven out of fifty specimens of pathological urine from patients suffer- ing from stricture, prostatitis, cystitis, and pyelo-nephritis. In many of these it was the only micro-organism present. In a number of ex- periments upon mice, guinea-pigs, and rabbits, they produced cystitis, ' Univ. Med. Mag., 1889, vol. i.. p. 509. - British Med. Journ., July 18, 1885. 3 Lectures on the Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs, 4th edition, p. 68. 4 Bulletin de 1’Acad. deMed., 1888, t. xx., p. 310.