TUMORS. 258 of age, and only 12 in those over thirty. He also found that it was more than twice as common in the female as in the male (2.4 to 1), al- though Grurlt in 194 cases found a proportion of only 1.4 to 1. Hildebrand reports a case of multiple angeioma in a young woman, the tumors being located chiefly on the left arm and hand, and the thumb having degenerated into a mere mass of vessels. In one of the tumors removed from this patient he found a direct communication with a neighboring vein through a small branch, and another vessel leaving the tumor on the other side, which he took for an artery; no other branches passed out of the capsule of the tumor save these two, so that it lay between the artery and vein almost like an arterio-venous aneurism. Mastin draws attention to those unusual and yet not very rare cases of angeioma of the scalp, either subcutaneous or subfascial, in which a communication exists between the tumor and the intra-cranial sinuses, usually the longitudinal. He adopts a classification of congenital, spontaneous, and traumatic. The first class is probably the most com- mon. The causes are a varicose condition of the venae emissariae, or of the veins of the diploe; local disease of the wall of the sinus, causing bulging and pressure on the bone; rarefying osteitis destroying the bone and allowing the sinus to bulge outward; and finally traumatic causes, such as fracture of the skull with simultaneous rupture of the sinus, and the formation of a hematocele communicating with the sinus and preserving its connection. The last cause makes a blood-cyst. The others may result in the production of the varicose, the most common form, or of a true cavernous variety. The condition, when it exists, is recognized by the changes in size due to pressure on the internal jugular vein, and by the compressibility of the tumor when all external vascular connection is cut off, as by the pressure of a ring. The treat- ment is operative, but the greatest care must be taken to avoid infec- tion, for there have been many instances of operation under these circumstances causing death by sepsis, on account of the intimate con- nection with the sinus. Intracranial angeiomata are not very rare tumors, although unusual, and they are beginning to assume importance in these days of cerebral surgery. They usually if not invariably develop in connection with the membranes, and give symptoms similar to those of other brain tumors, —Jacksonian epilepsy, local palsies, etc.-—and have several times been successfully removed by trephining, as in the cases of Bremer and Car- son, of Pean, of Jeannel, and of Poirier. Angeioma of the tongue, large enough to form a distinct tumor, is comparatively rare, and I therefore mention Fischer’s case, in which there was so much fibrous tissue as to warrant the name of angeiofibro- ma. Very small angeiomata of the root of the tongue have been ob- served after death by Yersin. Keimer reports one of the soft palate. In my experience these na*vi of the mouth are usually associated with similar conditions of the neighboring parts of the face, and sometimes with that form called angeioma lipomatodes. Another instance of an- geioma of the mucous membrane is the rare case reported by Barker, of a cavernous angeioma occupying one side of the wall of the rectum, just above the sphincter, in a man forty-five years of age, who had often suffered from hemorrhage of the bowel, and who finally died of