582 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. movements of the needle-holder and the eye of the needle in the open- ing in the skull. Closure of the Opening in the Skull.—If the osteoplastic method of temporary resection of the skull has been used, the method of clos- ing the opening has already been indicated (p. 579). If a trephine button has been removed, however, the technique is different. Fol- lowing the indications of Ollier, Dr. Macewen in his first paper advised that the opening in the skull should be closed by replacing the bone. If the button of bone is to be replaced in one large piece instead of in small fragments it must he most minutely cared for. The surgeon may place it, as I commonly do, in a teacup containing 1-2000 bi- chloride solution, the teacup being placed in a basin which is partly filled with hot water from time to time, and by a thermometer kept at a temperature of from 100° to 105° F. It may also be kept, of course, in a carbolic acid solution, 1-40, or even in warm, previously boiled water. Macewen cut it up into small fragments and laid them on the dura, but this has been found an unnecessary labor and pro- longation of the operation. I have replaced the entire trephine button, an inch and a half in diameter, more than a dozen times, and where it has had suitable care have never once seen it produce the slightest trouble even in adults. In one case where the dura had been removed, I per- forated the button at the centre-pin fossa and passed a chromicized cat- gut stitch through this and around the periphery, and thus sewed it to the under surface of the flap of scalp, with a perfect result. Whether it will be best in many cases to replace the bone is as yet an undecided question. If the hone is diseased it should not be re- placed. In those cases also in which we wish to bring about any change in the intracranial pressure, as for instance in cases of headache and of irremovable tumors, where we operate to relieve the pressure, the hone should not be replaced. In several cases in which I have done secon- dary operations, after a previous trephining or after fracture with loss of considerable bony tissue, I have found the opening closed by a firm fibrous membrane, which would give excellent protection to the brain excepting from sharp, penetrating objects. To protect the brain from such possible accidents I usually cover an oval piece of tin, somewhat larger than the opening in the skull, with silk, and sew it inside a skull cap. In many cases, most commonly from old fracture with large loss of bone substance, it is desirable to close the deficiency by a secondary operation. For this purpose the procedure of Koenig1 is by far the best. In this case a gap, 8 by 5 centimetres, existed in the temporo-frontal region. The scar and fibrous tissue were removed. Then a flap of ad- jacent scalp of similar shape, but a little larger than the opening (to allow for shrinkage) was cut through on three sides down to the bone, but not separated from it. The fourth formed its pedicle. By a rather narrow, small chisel, the outer table of the skull under the flap so out- lined was chiselled loose, becoming of course fractured into small pieces which remained adherent to the under surface of the flap. This flap of scalp and hone fragments was now shifted so as to fill the bony defect, and was sutured into place, the raw surface of diploe from which the flap 1 Centralbl. f. Chir., 1890, No. 27.