FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 431 Lunn records the case of a man aged 44, who in 1869 had sustained a fracture of the left patella, which united well, but gave way again six months afterward; no union could be obtained, and the fragments were four and a half inches apart; the knee became the seat of gnawing pains, and the limb would give way in spite of careful splinting. The joint was therefore excised in 1885, and the man made an uninterrupted recovery. Upon the subject of treatment, I shall first cite the recorded results of experience with various methods, and then the opinions derived therefrom. Thomas2 claims excellent results from his “indirect” method of fix- ation of the knee, by means of a wire frame extending from the pelvis to the sole of the foot, with hands in front of the leg and thigh, and behind the ham. He attempts no control of the fragments, thinking that “neither position nor nicety of adaptation during treatment is in any way essential to a.good result.” Another plan, brought forward as new by Masing3 and said to have been successfully used by him in four cases, is essentially the same as the one described in my former article as employed at the Middlesex Hospital in London. Heath4 recommends the immediate application of plaster-of-Paris bandages, and is in favor of aspiration of the knee-joint. Malgaigne’s hooks have been advocated by Treves.5 * He prefers straps of webbing to keep the limb fixed upon the splint, and advises that the knee should be exposed to the air, believing that the confine- ment in a close and heated atmosphere may account for the slow healing of injuries of the lower extremity. Myles0 passes steel pins transversely through the fragments, and then draws them together by figure-of-eight turns of thread or wire about their free ends. Robson 7 draws the skin well up from the upper fragment, and down from the lower, and then passes steel pins across through the quadriceps tendon and the ligament of the patella; the pins are then clipped off about half an inch from the skin, and the knee enveloped in antiseptic gauze. The pins are left in place about three weeks; plaster-of-Paris is then applied, and afterward a Thomas's splint. Horne8 believed that he obtained bony union in a case thus treated. In discussing Robson’s method, R. W. Parker raises the question whether it is worth while to try to get bony union, citing another instance in a woman who broke both patellae at different times; the first fracture healed by bone, the second with fibrous union and considerable separa- tion, but with just as good use of the limb. Haward mentioned a case in which a patient with fibrous union was able to ride on a bicycle. McLaren9 reported the case of a man who fractured his right patella in 1864, and his left in 1867; in each the fragments were connected by a fibrous band, three inches in length on the right side, one inch on the left, but both limbs were capable of free use. The curious statement 1 British Med. Journal, May 8, 1886. 5 Provincial Med. Journal, Aug. 1, 1889. See also Med. Press and Circular, Oct. 11 and 25, 1882. 3 St. Petersburg med. Woclienschrift, 10 Juni, 1889. 4 British Med. Journal, May 17, 1884. 5 Ibid., July 24, 1886. t: Ibid., March 16, 1889. 1 Ibid., March 30, 1889. 8 Lancet, Jan. 18, 1890. 9 Edinburgh Med. Journal, March, 1885.