89 ERYSIPELAS. freely, which is only advantageous, a 1-500, or 1-1000 corrosive-subli- mate solution is rubbed in with some force. Then a bandage wet with the same solution is applied, and must be changed every six hours. Of course, this method is limited to the extremities and the trunk. The cuts should not be deeper than just to penetrate the integument, and should not go down as far as the subcutaneous fat. Of all the modes of treatment which I have used and seen used, Kraske-Riedel’s seems to be the most valuable. Special stress must be laid, however, upon operat- ing only in healthy tissue, which is the more important as it is well known that the infection has commonly progressed farther under the cuticle than the surface-inflammation shows. Wherever the fence is too near, we find that the erysipelas has broken through; that is, it ex- isted already, before the operation, in the lower strata of the epidermis, and simply became apparent on the surface on the following day. Where- ever such a break occurs, it is sufficient to draw a semicircular series of similarly crossed cuts around the new tongue-shaped place, starting and ending in the original enclosure. As to the way in which this operation influences erysipelas, I have more confidence in its quality of dividing the continuity of the skin, than in the action of the antiseptic which is applied afterwards. Although the latter may contribute to the wholesome effect, the cutting of the lymphatic ducts, through which the infection principally spreads, mechanically stops its progress. Where this method cannot be applied, as for instance in the frequent cases of erysipelas of the head, properly applied compression by means of adhesive plaster or a rubber bandage shows good results. If the in- fection starts, for instance, from the nose, the whole head, with men, is shaved, while with women only a circular band of hair, about an inch wide, is shaved out. With the hard skull as a basis, we have an excellent chance to use compression on the skin threatened by the ad- jacent erysipelas, whose spread seems to be actually stopped by this method. The theoretical explanation of its action is the same as that of Kraske-Riedel's method, the continuity of a vessel being severed by thorough compression as well as by cutting. Effect of Erysipelas on Neoplasms.—It has long since been ob- served that intercurrent erysipelas of the skin has sometimes a striking influence on neoplasms, particularly of lupous and syphilitic nature, with or without ulceration, and then, especially, on genuine tumors, for in- stance sarcoma and carcinoma (so-called curative erysipelas). It has been noticed that the above-mentioned affections disappear lastingly, that long-existing ulcers and chronic diseases of the skin grow better, and sometimes even heal after accidental erysipelas has travelled over the affected surface. French authors call this very aptly “ erysipele salutaire,” and we find many reports of such cases (W. Busch, Biedert, Schwimmer, Janicke, Neisser, P. Bruns, Langenbuch, Tillmanns, and others). While the results in lupus, syphilis, and other ulcerous affec- tions, have proved to be inconstant and only of temporary value, the closer study of the influence of erysipelas upon carcinoma, and especially on sarcoma in its different forms, has proved to be of the highest inter- est. W. Busch has shown that even large tumors, especially sarcomas and lympho-sarcomas, may undergo, under the influence of erysipelas, a rapid fatty metamorphosis, and thus be absorbed and entirely disappear.