491 TUBERCULOSIS OF BONES AND JOINTS. The gonococcus has been found in the joints in the synovitis of gonor- rhoea, the pneumococcus in the joint disease occasionally occurring in pneumonia- These serve only to establish more fully the fact that these joint affections are distinctive, and are an integral part of the general disease in such cases. The treatment of acute suppurative synovitis is more vigorous than in former days. Early free incision of the joint, thorough antiseptic irrigation, and drainage if necessary, are the accepted methods. Early aspiration of the pus, with washing out of the joint through the aspi- rating tube until the fluid returns clear, is advocated by such men as Mavo Robson, and in the early stages yields good results. If it fails, incision of course is required. Prolonged rest to the affected joint is necessary after operation, especially in the case of children. Tuberculosis of Bones and Joints. The names of strumous and scrofulous joint disease are best omitted in the present connection, and the affections formerly called by these names are to be classed as tuberculous. The situation is fairly well stated by Dr. Peters,1 2 3 who says that those who do not recognize the identity of scrofula and tuberculosis are “such surgeons at home and abroad as do not perhaps enjoy the privilege of closely following the rapid advance of pathological investigation.” It can be stated very briefly upon what evidence these diseases are classed as tuberculous, and it is the more necessary to do so because Mr. Barwell was unwilling to accept the evidence of ten years ago; but the last years have been so fruitful in investigation in this direction, and the investigations so convincing, that to-day the question must be con- sidered as to a large extent settled. The Presence of Bacilli.—In the first place, tubercle bacilli are found in the affected structures. When they were first looked for, the results of investigation were unsatisfactory and imperfect; Kanzler, for example, found bacilli in only 8 out of 15 cases examined; this, how- ever, was in 1884.2 But with the perfection of the methods for their detection, the investigator of to-day is reasonably sure of finding the bacilli in the tissues affected by “ strumous” joint disease. Castro Soffia, in 1885,3 never failed to demonstrate the existence of bacilli, nor did Schuchardt and Krause in examining 40 cases of surgical tuberculosis from the clinics at Halle and Breslau.4 The bacilli are generally very few in number, and persistent search may be needed for their detection, and even expert observers are occasionally obliged to give up the search.5 * In the pus they are even harder to find than in the joint tissues. Mog- ling r‘ was able to find them in all of 53 cases that he examined, but Schlegtendal,7 in 520 specimens of pus from tubercular abscesses, only 1 Canadian Practitioner, 1890 ; see also, Treves, Manual of Surgery ; Howard Marsh, Dis- eases of Joints, p. 7; Hueter, Gelenkkrankheiten; Id., Archiv f. Chirurgie, 1879, Bd. xi. 2 Berliner klinische Wochenschrift, 2 Jan., 1884. 3 These de Paris, 1885. 4 Fortschritte der Medicin, Mai, 1883. 5 Muller, Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1884, No. 3. 6 Die Chirurg. Tuberculosen. Tubingen, 1884. ’Fortschritte der Medicin, Bd. i., S. 537.