086 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. pendence upon continued inflammation in the exciting eye; for as soon as this eye is removed all irritation disappears from the other. In order that there may be no mistake in recognizing sympathetic inflam- mation, three points must be considered: (1) the nature of the injury in the exciting eye, (2) the nature of the affection in the sympathizing eye, and (3) the length of time between the injury of the first and the implication of the second. Irido-cyclitis must exist in the exciting eye, and this has generally followed perforation of the coats allowing the entrance of microbes, which, not the wound as was at one time sup- posed, are the cause of the inflammation. The affection in the sym- pathizing eye is generally a uveitis, a papillo-retinitis, or a combination of both. The time that may elapse between an injury to one eye and sympathetic inflammation in the second is usually about three weeks, rarely shorter, though it may be a much greater period. Various causes have been suggested for the sympathetic inflammation, and among these are nerve irritation and the migration of bacteria. Irido- cyclitis is an essential condition in the exciting eye, and is caused by germ infection. Mechanical irritation of the ciliary nerves does not cause disease, and therefore cannot account for disease in the fellow- eye. Again the affection may continue or even return after the ex- citing eye has been removed, whereas had it been caused by nerve irritation it would have immediately subsided. The bacterial theory accounts more satisfactorily for the inflammation, but as to the path by which the germs pass from one eye to the other, or as to the real nature of the organism, observers are still in ignorance. Treatment of Sympathetic Ophthalmia.—A blind eye that is capable of exciting inflammation should he at once excised. An eye containing a foreign body that cannot he extracted should be excised, unless it retains vision while the other eye is blind. An exciting eye that retains vision should not be removed when the other eye is affected, for in the end it may prove the better of the two. The removal of the exciting eye when the second has not been affected is a matter of grave importance, especially when good vision remains, and the case must he judged by a consideration of all the conditions. When inflammation has com- menced, a blind exciting eye should be excised at once. When the patient refuses to have enucleation performed, a large portion of the optic nerve may he excised as a substitute, but the responsibility should he thrown upon the patient or friends. Sympathetic inflammation should be treated by atropine, pilocarpine, and mercury (by inunction if possible). The patient should remain in a darkened room and all use of the eyes should be prohibited. No operation should be performed on the sympathizing eye until all symptoms of inflammation have en- tirely subsided. Secondary Iritis and Irido-Cyclitis.—This usually follows kera- titis, scleritis, retinitis, or choroiditis, and the iritis is generally severe, but chronic and sluggish. Treatment of Iritis in General.—Full dilatation of the pupil by atropine is of prime importance. This should be used freely and fear- lessly, and the intense pain that is frequently caused by the tugging at the adhesions must not deter the surgeon from continuing its use until