338 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. covered behind the ear. Payne has observed the presence of the para- site on the scalp and beard. I have quite frequently observed the dis- ease in married couples, in whom it was confined to one individual alone. Experimental inoculations have been successfully practised by Kobner, who has managed to inoculate men and also rabbits with the disease. Treatment.—Hyposulphite of sodium, 3i to the ounce of water, ap- plied night and morning, is a very good remedy. The applications should be preceded by a warm bath and the free use of soap, which will enable the remedy to penetrate more readily. The use of tincture of iodine in cases which are not extensive is also followed by good and quick results. Scabies.—The strength of the remedies employed in the treatment of scabies must be graded according to the age of the patient, and the sensitiveness and general condition of the skin. The following ointment is a very useful one: Iji ft Naphthol, Sulph. sublim., aa 3i; Adipis, 5 i. This salve is to be thoroughly rubbed into the affected parts with the hands night and morning, and its use is to be continued for three or four days. At the expiration of that time a bath is taken, and the underclothing and bed-linen are changed. Should signs of the disease still exist after three or four days the same treatment is repeated. Owing to its non-irritating and non-toxic properties oxynaplithoic acid, a remedy recommended by Schwimmer, can be used advantageously upon children. The formula is as follows: lit Acidi oxynaphthoici, Pulv. cretae, Saponis viridis, aa 3iv; Adipis, q. s. ad §i. M. Pediculosis Capitis.1—The color of the head-louse is usually gray- ish or ashy, but is said to vary according to the color of the individual on whom it is found; thus it is black on the negro, white on the Es- kimo, and yellowish-brown on the Chinese. The ova or “nits” are attached to the hair by means of a glutinous material, called chitin. The pediculus capitis gains its nutriment by inserting its haustellum, or proboscis, into a cutaneous follicle to reach a small vessel. Lice do not bite. The condition known as plica polonica, or Weichselzopf, presents a frightful picture of aggravated lousiness. In appearance the pediculus capitis is very similar though smaller than the pediculus corporis. Male lice are not as large and are less numerous than the female. Treatment.—The following application will be found very useful. $ Extract staphisagrise fid., f 3i; Acidi acetic, dil., f 5 iij. Sig. Apply thoroughly to the scalp. The stavesacre destroys the lice and the dilute acetic acid the ova. Naphthol used in the form of oil, or soap, is also a good remedy. Pediculosis Corporis.—The pediculus corporis procures its nutri- ment by means of a haustellum or sucking apparatus, consisting of a membranous tube, which it inserts into the follicles of the skin. Treatment.—The application of Extr. staphisagriae fid., f3i-ij; Adipis, 3 i, to the affected area, will be followed by the destruction of the parasites that may be found on the skin. 1 Lice belong to the order rynchotta.