SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 634 and removing a considerable amount of brain substance; thirdly by Mayo,1 who operated on a child a year and a half old with an occipital tumor as large as a small orange, the child recovering in two weeks. It is not to be expected, of course, that the majority of such chil- dren will recover, yet the cases to which I have called attention above are quite numerous enough to authorize the statement that in suitable cases the operation should be done. Rarely advisable in hy- drenceplialocele, though the examples quoted show its possibility, in the other two conditions the operation will presumably be proper in a con- siderable proportion of cases. Of course it should be done only in those instances in which the aperture in the skull is relatively small, so that the pedicle may either be included in a single ligature or be ligated in three or four sections. Moreover, great feebleness of the child and the presence of other malformations as complications would be contra- indications. The method is the same in all cases. The thick scalp at the base of the pedicle should be dissected away by two semilunar incisions. When the pedicle has been disclosed, if this is small enough, a single ligature may be cast around it, as close as possible to the opening in the skull. Where the pedicle is too large for a single ligature it may be ligated in several sections. The flaps of scalp should then be united over the ped- icle and the wound dressed in the ordinary manner. Great care should be taken that the dressings do not become displaced, lest infection should follow, as happened in one of my recent cases with a fatal result. Removal of the Gasserian Ganglion for Tic Douloureux. The Gasserian ganglion, as is well known, lies in a fossa on the an- terior surface of the petrous bone, near its apex. It lies between two layers of the dura, the upper layer being the dura proper, the lower layer lining the fossa in which the ganglion lies and serving as the periosteum. The first, as far as I know, who suggested operation on the ganglion was Dr. J. Ewing Mears, of Philadelphia, who expressly men- tioned it as a possible necessity in cases of trigeminal neuralgia, in a paper read before the American Surgical Association as long ago as 1884. To Mr. Rose, of King’s College Hospital, London, belongs, how- ever, the credit of first actually performing the operation. His paper was published in the “ British Medical Journal,”2 and thus far he has re- corded seven cases, the first six of which may be found in his Lectures on the Surgery of Trigeminal Neuralgia,3 and in his republished mono- graph. The first operation was done April 2, 1890. In this case he removed the upper jaw, but took no especial care to protect the eye, which unfortunately had to be enucleated in consequence of pan- ophthalmitis following. His second and later cases have been done by a better method, which is practically as follows: The eyelids are first stitched together, the stitches being removed on the fourth day. (My own experience confirms that of other operators, that it is not necessary thus to pro- tect the eyeball.) An almost semicircular incision is made, extend- 1 Annals of Surg., July, 1893, p. 26. 2 Brit. Med. Journal, 1890, vol. i., p. 1012. 3 Ibid., 1892, vol. i., pp. 33, 157, 261.