146 SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. this way can the remarkable changes which follow the use of tuberculin be partially explained: the leucocytoses, the oedema in various parts, the necrosis, possibly the inflammations. In this connection it is well to take up the views of Klebs, who says —not being in accord with any other observer—that tuberculin pro- duces two distinct effects upon bacilli: their destruction, and a retarda- tion in their growth. The action upon bacilli is without necrosis, but is a metaplastic one, due to a moderate infiltration of white corpuscles and fluid. He claims that there are two classes of substances in tuber- culin : one deleterious, producing necrosis and inflammation, the other destroying the bacilli; he has isolated the latter, and calls the sub- stance tuberculocidin. The diagnostic value of the remedy has been assailed almost from the beginning, when Leyden expressed his doubts in the matter; this was quickly followed up by the statement that patients with lepra (Kaposi, Arloing, Goldschmidt) and ulcer of the stomach (Oppenheim) did react, and that several with well-marked tuberculosis did not (Bar- deleben, Israel—case of lupus). It was also established that perfectly healthy individuals might react with small doses (Korczynski and Adamkiewicz), so that Leyden, in a later communication, felt himself warranted in saying that the practical diagnostic value of tuberculin was very limited, and that he had never had any assistance in diag- nosis from its use. It is now used by veterinary surgeons, and Eber, collecting a large number of cases from various sources, shows that it is diagnostic in over 84 per cent., which might make it valuable for cows, but hardly for human beings. All who have used tuberculin agree that, even for diagnostic purposes, its use is not devoid of danger; Henoch and Korte will not use it in tubercular meningitis, Henoch warns against employing it in children, and many deaths are reported as resulting from its use. It is Virchow, again, who sums up its deleterious effects as: «, very great fluxionary hyperemia and oedema; 6, hemor- rhagic processes; c, very intense inflammatory processes, especially in the lungs; cl, second eruptions of new and sub-miliary tubercles. In discussing the curative effects of any remedy in tuberculosis, much caution is required, in that we must not lose sight of the fact that a great many cases are cured spontaneously, or at least without the inter- vention of any remedy for which specific properties can be claimed. This is especially the case with phthisis, where so many patients have been cured by means of acting upon the individual as a whole; change of occupation, surroundings, climate, nutrition, etc. The great num- ber of publications during the early period of the use of tuberculin can be disregarded entirely, because they simply show that phthisical pa- tients have been benefited, as they would have been, and have been, by any remedy producing the great psychical effect that was produced by tuberculin. To verify this statement it is only necessary to look through the literature of the treatment of phthisis pulmonalis, and to see the great number of remedies that have been successfully used. More was promised in the treatment of local tuberculosis—lupus, and tuberculosis of the larynx—in which the astounding changes that take place in the tuberculous processes can be observed. While there could be no doubt concerning these changes, the question of cure could only be decided upon as a result of observation extended over a greater length of time