940 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Fig. 1747. Grunfeld’s EDtloscopic Tube. After some years of work with this instrument, Desormeaux published a book on the subject of endoscopy, entitled “ L’endoscope, et ses appli- cations an diagnostic et au traitement des affections de l’urethre et de la vessie.” This was in 1865. It was found that this instrument pos- sessed the double disadvantage of being cumbersome and of emitting considerable heat. Haken, of Riga, in 1862, very much simplified the endoscopic proc- ess by calling into service the ordinary head’mirror, and, get- ting his illumination from light reflected by it, did away with the clumsy lantern of De- sormeaux. This step led to the adoption by different investigators of a variety of urethral tubes differing both as to the material of which they were made and the shape of the ocular end. It also distinctly sepa- rated urethra] endoscopy, or urethroscopy, from vesical, or cystoscopy. The materials from which the uretliroscopic tubes have been made are metal, hard rubber, and glass. The metallic tubes are sometimes made of silver, on account of the power of that metal to resist to a great extent the action of corrosive fluids sometimes employed in the treat- ment of urethral lesions. Tubes made of hard rubber have the disad- vantage of being smaller in calibre than metal ones of a like circumference, it being necessary that their walls should be thick in order to pre- vent their being too brittle. For glass tubes the claim has been made that they can be more easily and thoroughly cleaned than those of other materials, but the undeniable possibility of their breaking, and so inflicting some injury upon the urethra, practically outweighs this advantage. In addition to those of a cylindrical form, specula of the bivalve type have been devised, and are preferred by some surgeons. Griinfeld, who has contributed largely to the literature of endoscopy, uses urethral tubes made funnel-shaped at the ocular end, for the pur- pose of securing the entrance of all the light rays possible into the tube. Fig. 1748. Steurer’s Endoscopic Tube. Fig. 1749. Klotz’s Urethroscopic Tube. (Fig. 17-17.) Steurer modified Grunfeld’s tube by placing a disk at the point where the funnel joins the cylindrical portion of the tube, the purpose of the disk being to prevent the discomfort to the patient of having the meatus overstretched by the funnel being forced into it during the examination. (Fig. 1748.)