952 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Op. cit., p. 187. 2 University Med. Mag., March, 1891, p. 295. In using the instrument, a fresh rubber cover should first he neatly put on, and dipped in whatever lubricant is used. The instrument is then to be inserted until its extremity is at the posterior end of the bulbous urethra. The screw is now turned, and the bulb is expanded until the patient, upon interrogation, says that he feels a sensation of slight distention. The instrument should next be moved slightly, and if it seems to be firmly held, the screw should be reversed and the size of the bulb reduced a little. The calibre should then be read off on the index. Next the instrument is to be gently and slowly withdrawn, and any points of obstruction noted, together with the calibre to which the bulb must be reduced in order to pass them. The advantages of this instrument are, that with it several strictures of different calibre can be measured at a single introduction, and that it can be inserted through a meatus of disproportionately small size as compared with the capacity of the urethra. The Metallic Bulbous Explorer.—This consists simply of a bulb, acorn-shaped like that of the bougie-a-boule, mounted upon a slender shaft, at the other end of which is a small disk upon which is marked the number or size of the bulb. It has the advantage over the rubber instrument that it can he more certainly sterilized, since it can be Fig. 1757. Otis's Metallic Bulbous Explorer. repeatedly boiled without injury. It is in this respect a far cleaner and safer instrument. A good set of these explorers should range from No. 14- to No. 38 or 40 F. (Fig. Tf57.) Calibre of the Urethra.—In order to appreciate the degree to which a stricture encroaches upon the calibre of a given urethra, as well as to form an intelligent idea as to the extent to which the nar- rowed part must be dilated or otherwise dealt with to restore it to the normal size of the canal, it must be borne in mind that the calibre of the urethra varies in different individuals. Otis, after a large experience, has determined that the normal calibre, or the limit to which the ure- thra can be distended with ease, bears a certain relation to the circumfer- ence of the flaccid penis, and has adopted the following scale1: In a pe- nis the circumference of which is 3 inches, the calibre of the urethra would be 30; circumference 3f in., cal. 32; circumference 3^ in., cal. 34; 3-fin., cal. 36; 4 in., cal. 38; 4f to 4 f in.; cal. 40. Dr. J. William White2 has adopted a scale of relation in these measurements somewhat lower than Otis’s. For a penis of 3 inches in circumference, he places the urethral calibre at from 26 to 28; for one of 3f in. circumference,