733 FISTULA UPON THE St'KFACE OF THE FACE. with the ducts. It is possible for the saliva to escape from an ulcerat- ing or otherwise diseased lobule, and, burrowing under the tissues, to make its exit, or cause a cystic tumor, at a distant point. Garretson records a case in which he believed that the sublingual gland had thus communicated with and caused distention of a bursa above the hyoid bone. Agnew saw a congenital salivary fistula which opened on the auricle at the anterior part of the helix. A blow may cause subcu- taneous rupture of the parotid duct and cause swelling from salivary infiltration. Impaction of fishbones, .air, or calculi in the salivary ducts may cause obstruction and inflammatory symptoms leading to fistulse. I once treated a case of inflammatory obstruction of the parotid duct in which there occurred a transudation upon the cheek when the patient’s salivary glands were stimulated by masticating food. This was prob- ably saliva leaking through the skin. The patient unfortunately passed out of my care before a chemical examination of the exuded fluid had been made. Necrosis of the malar bone may cause sinuses whose orifices resemble salivary fistulse. Garretson records a case of sinus in the face, due to a misplaced molar tooth lying on the ramus of the lower jaw under the parotid gland. It, of course, did not discharge saliva. The probe and chemical tests will aid in the diagnosis of such cases. Tincture of chloride of iron, mixed on a white surface with the suspected fluid, will give a pink reaction with the sulphocyanide of potassium present if saliva is mixed with the discharge. * In operating on the deep structures of the cheek, the exact position of the duct of the parotid gland may be kept in view by passing a fine lachrymal probe or acupuncture needle along its track from the buccal opening. Ordinarily, however, the line already given will be a suffi- cient guide to its position. Various operations have been employed for closing the external orifice in salivary fistula. The essential part of the treatment is the establish- ment of a free opening for leading the saliva into the mouth. After this has been accomplished, the cutaneous orifice will often close spon- taneously. The exact location of the oral orifice made by the surgeon is not important, if it remains sufficiently large. The late Dr. Post, in his article on this subject in Vol. IV. of the En- cyclopedia, has detailed several methods. One or two others may with propriety be mentioned here. An opening for salivary drainage, at or above the fistula, may be made into the mouth, as advised by Agnew, by passing a probe along the duct from the mucous surface of the cheek, and then carrying a thread, by means of a needle, around the probe through the tissues without perforating the skin. The probe is then withdrawn, and the ligature, which has been introduced from the mouth, is tied and allowed to ulcerate through the encircled duct and mucous membrane. Thus the duct is cut off from the external open- ing, which is closed by the application of stimulants or caustics, or by a plastic procedure, if spontaneous healing does not occur. In some cases a cure may he effected by slitting up the duct with scissors and suturing the mucous membrane so as to divert the stream of saliva from the external orifice. Garretson has succeeded in making the internal opening large and the cutaneous orifice small by using a coni- cal plug, of cotton or wire, carried through the entire thickness of