ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 991 to say to which class of tumors the growth belongs, on account of the difficulty in deciding as to which part is the most important. This is particularly so in regard to the question of malignancy and non-ma- lignancy. There seems to be an exaggerated opinion prevalent in the profession as to the possibility of determining the true character of a growth by means of a microscopical examination. Since this instrument has come into common use, the tendency of surgeons is too often to excise a tumor and immediately send a piece of it to a microscopist to deter- mine its character. This is not the right way. One of the obstacles that has contributed largely to our ignorance of these growths is a lack of proper pathological histories. In some cases a macroscopical exami- nation, together with the clinical history, will determine a tumor’s character. A microscopical examination will often be of service, but alone is apt to be misleading and untrustworthy. In some cases the most careful search into the clinical history, and the most minute ex- amination of the growth itself, will fail to settle the question of ma- lignancy. Cartilage is often associated with sarcoma, and as often, or still more often, with fibroma. Cysts are associated with both malig- nant and non-malignant growths in the same way, so that these tumors require to be studied in all their various aspects, both as re- gards their life histories and their macroscopical and microscopical appearances. Adenoma and Cystic Disease.—The term adenoma is applied to those tumors which resemble in their construction glandular tissue: that is, they are composed of cavities the walls of which are lined with epithe- lium on a basement membrane. The name is not applied to those tumors in which, as in the sarcomata, a cyst forms, usually from a de- generative process, in the substance of the mass. These growths have been called cystoma, adeno-cystoma, fibro-cystoma (Eve), cystoma sim- plex (Kocher), hydatid disease of the testicle (Sir Astley Cooper), etc. J. Bland Sutton 1 holds that these cysts take their origin from the organ of Gfiraldes, or paradidymis, a remnant of the mesonephros (Wolffian body).2 This lies at the upper portion of the testis, between it and the head of the epididymis. Mr. Curling3 held that they originated in the rete testis. Mr. Eve4 states that while there are grounds for be- lieving that the tubules and cysts originate in certain elementary out- growths from, or rudiments of, the Wolffian body, existing through life in the hilum testis, it is still incorrect to say that they are derived from the organ of Giraldes, for it is situated outside the testicle while the cysts originate within. Mr. Sutton & considered the affection analogous to that seen in the congenitally cystic kidney, but Mr. Lockwood 6 com- bated this idea and Mr. Eve agreed with him. The disease to which it seems to me to bear the greatest resemblance is the cystic adenoma of the female breast. We see the same kind of cysts, lined and filled with similar epithelium, containing at times similar intracystic growths, and pursuing the same benign course without local recurrence or metastasis. The cysts of the testicle are found in a fibrous matrix sometimes so 1 Lancet, 1887, vol. L, p. 254. 2 Tumors, Innocent and Malignant, p. 47. 1893. 3 Diseases of the Testis, p. 382. 4 Trans. Pathological Soc. of London, 1887, p. 201. 6 Lancet, 1887, vol. i., p. 254. 6 British Medicai Journal, 1887, vol. i., p. 501.