253 OSTEOMA. been placed on record by Bidder, Grimm, Barker, and Sutton. While most authorities are inclined to accept these as remains of branchio- genic origin, Sutton maintains that they are misplaced, rudimentary, supplementary auricles, such as are found in certain animals. Very extraordinary is the occasional simultaneous occurrence of mul- tiple enchondromata and multiple angeiomata. Two extreme instances of this curious affection are now on record, the earlier case of Kast and von Recklinghausen being exactly paralleled by one reported bySteudel from Bruns's clinic. In this case the unfortunate patient began to de- velop cartilaginous tumors on the fingers in his seventh year, and they continued to appear in other situations and to increase in size up to his death at the age of forty-five. He had insisted upon the amputation of his right hand in his twentieth year, finding the weight of the gnarled tumors too much for comfort. At his death growths were detected on the right shoulder-blade, arm, and forearm, on the left hand, and on all the bones of both lower extremities, besides the skull, ribs, verte- brae, and pelvis. The left arm and forearm remained free. The affected bones were increased to many times their natural bulk, especially near the epiphyseal lines, and many of the internal organs were displaced by pressure. The affected bones had not grown to such full length as the others, and various deformities showed irregular growth. The tumors were softened and cystic in some places, and nowhere ossified. Metastases existed in the lungs, probably originating from a growth in the abdomen which had caused thrombosis of the iliac vein. The angeiomatous tumors had developed in the later years of life, for at the patient’s twentieth year only one was visible. They were peculiar in that they were formed apparently in the walls of the veins, and seemed to be due as a rule to obstructed circulation, and yet they were true angeiomata and not simple varicosities. Osteoma. Williams in 111 cases found thirty per cent, subungual (great toe), sixteen per cent, on the femur, twelve per cent, on the tibia, nine per cent, on the humerus, four and one-half per cent, on the vertebrae, and the rest scattered in smaller numbers. Ten per cent, of the patients had multiple tumors. Multiple exostoses are of the cartilaginous va- riety, that is, are covered with a layer of hyaline cartilage, from wrhich comes their growth, and behind which they ossify. In 15 cases which Bessel-Hagen observed personally, and in 13 others reported in surgical literature, he found a reduced growth of the affected bones, and he even thought that the reduction was proportionate to the size and number of the tumors. He considered it the rule for the tumors to develop from the epiphyseal junction, and to be left behind as the bone lengthened and the epiphysis moved farther on, so that finally they would be situated some distance up the shaft. He found also a marked hereditary tendency in the affection, only two of his patients being without a family history of the complaint, while in one family seven cases had occurred. Men were apparently more liable to the dis- ease than women, and yet the latter were not exempt, for of thirteen cases he found four in females. The bones vary in predisposition; thus