832 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. nated ill supernumerary mammary structures outside normal mammae. Of 132 cases of cancer he found 13 (9.8 per cent.) which had developed in the same manner, and others which seemed to have done so. He also cites cases of complete absence of both breasts, areolae, and nipples, in women otherwise well-formed. One case is recorded in which both breasts completely disappeared after lactation had ceased, and reap- peared in good condition with the next pregnancy. Inflammation of the Breast. Nursing from an inflamed breast is not without danger. Chaillou reports the case of a child nursing from the breast of a primipara affected on the ninth day with lymphangeitis. Death took place with convul- sions, coma, paralysis of the lower extremities, and partial paralysis of the left arm. The autopsy showed extensive foci of infection in the brain, spinal cord, and liver. The infecting material was supposed to have been absorbed through the intestines. Nursing from a breast in which the slightest symptoms of lymphangeitis exist is forbidden by most accoucheurs. OSTEOCHONDRO-SARCOMA OF THE BREAST. Mr. Battles1 reports a case of this very rare form of mammary tumor. There had been a small lump on the inner side of the nipple for six years. It had been the size of a pea for two years, and was as large as a hazelnut three years later. When the patient was admitted to the hospital the tumor was the size of an orange, painless, and hard. The nipple was much retracted, but the skin was movable. The tumor was removed and the patient did well. Clarke2 * reports a case of calcifying chondro-sarcoma of the female breast. Tuberculosis of the Breast. Tuberculosis of the mammary gland is a rare affection, though doubtless many cases are overlooked for want of accurate histological diagnosis. Very little has been written on the subject. In 1881 DubarJ published the first modern scientific studies in regard to it, and in the same yearLe Dentu 4 continued the investigation, to which Olnacker in 1883 added an able paper.5 The first reference to mammary tuber- culosis in English and American hooks on surgery was made by Eos- well Park in the American System of Gyseecology, 1887-88. Since 1887 scattering contributions to our knowledge of this disease have ap- peared in periodical literature from Orthmann, Hering, Maudry, Koux, Campenon, Lane, Shattock, and others. An accurate and valuable summary of all the work done in this direc- 1 Lancet, 1886, vol. i., p. 975. 'l Transactions Path. Soc. London, 1890. 3 Des Tubercles de la Mamelle, These. Paris, 1881. 4 Revue de Chirurgie, 1881, tome i., p. 27. 5 Arcliiv f. klin. Chirurgie, 1883, Bd. xxviii., S., 366.