ANESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. 178 An extemporized cone of pasteboard, or any firm substance, surrounded by a towel so as to leave a space for evaporation, is efficient, clean, and always readily made. At first, the cone should be held several inches from the patient’s face, but after the nasal and faucial mucous mem- branes have been amestlietized, its close application should be allowed, when rapid inhalation of concentrated ether vapor can be secured, thus producing narcosis quickly and safely.1 After complete anaesthesia has been produced, the inhaler should be removed during every sixth or eighth inspiration and expiration.2 Death occurs from paralysis of respiration; therefore the respiration and the color of the face should be watched, and since the diaphragm is the first respiratory muscle to stop acting, it is advisable to notice the abdominal movements. Com- plete anaesthesia is indicated by a contracted pupil3 and the absence of the act of deglutition.4 Etherization by the rectum is, to say the least, a dangerous method, and as yet is most unsatisfactory.5 Chloroform.-—This must always be greatly diluted with air. Even five per cent, of chloroform is dangerous. The air surrounding the patient should be dry, and the temperature should be above 60° F.6 The stages of narcotism are prolonged, and syncope is more fatal, in a moist atmosphere.7 Chloroform should be administered by the open method, and very slowly at first. The simple inhaler of Esmarch (Fig. Fig. 1594. 1594), which consists of a wire frame with a gauze covering, or the canvas cone of Lawrie/is the best, as the apparatus itself does not re- quire attention, and always admits a large amount of air. Any possi- ble interference with respiration should be prevented by loose clothes, position, etc. Struggling, choking, and holding the breath should be avoided by holding the inhaler farther from the face.9 The inhaler should be removed during an act of gasping following struggling, etc., as a dangerous dose might be taken in at such a time. After tolerance is acquired and the first stage past, the administration should be pushed quickly into the third stage of anaesthesia. The more bounding the pulse, the more rapidly is chloroform absorbed, and, hence, less is required. When administered near a gas flame, I as well as others10 have noted that chloroform becomes decomposed and causes irritation 1 Medical Record, 1889. 9 Buxton, Anaesthetics. 3 La France Medicale, 1887. 4 Practitioner, 1887. 6 Buxton, Anaesthetics. 6 Asclepiad, 1892. 1 Ibid., 1892. 8 Therapeutic Gazette. 9 Ibid. 10 Lancet, 1889; Medical Press and Circular, 1889; Berliner klin. Woch., 1889; Practi- tioner, 1889.