vol. vii.—23 ( 353 ) SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. BY JOHN A. WYETH, M.D., OF NEW YORK. ASSISTED BY W. W. VANARSDALE, M.D. Phlebitis. Two things have united to extend our knowledge of the pathology of the venous system since the appearance of the first volumes of the pres- ent work: the recent great advances in bacteriology; and the part played by the blood-plates in effecting thrombosis, the study of which is inti- mately connected with that of phlebitis. We may, for the better elucidation of the subject, divide phlebitis into infections phlebitis, an inflammatory condition due to the presence of micro-organisms in the tissues involved; and simple hyperplastic ph le- bitis, characterized by an infiltration of the tissues with new cells and a proliferation of their structural elements—a type of inflammation of low grade and mainly reparative in character. Either form of phlebitis may be associated with the occurrence of thrombosis within the vein (thrombo-phlebitis)—or it may be due to the advancement of inflammatory conditions from the immediate vicinity of the vein {periphlebitis)— an advancement which is the more readily accomplished, as the adventitia of many veins is practically continuous with the surrounding connective tissue. I shall first consider simple proliferating thrombophlebitis. The question whether thrombosis is the primary condition and phle- bitis the consecutive one (as represented by Rindfleisch, Ziegler, and others), or whether this order should be reversed (Dupuytren, Cornil and Ranvier), is still one in regard to which unanimity has not been reached. But it now appears probable that some injury to the endothe- lium is the primary exciting cause of phlebitis, which on the one hand, under certain conditions, leads to the formation of a thrombus within the vein, and simultaneously gives rise to hyperplastic changes in the vein-walls (Weigert). Thrombosis is, therefore, now believed to take place only when injuries to the endothelial lining of the vessels are associated with a stagnation