767 CYSTS OF THE HECK. Sanguineous Cyst of the Neck. ance. In a specimen obtained from a female aged thirty-four (Fig. 1720), some parts were smooth and glistening like the endocardium, while others presenied irregular elevations and trabeculae which tra- versed the cavity and were as large as, and very much like, the chordae tendineae. In other places the surface presented the appearance of an erectile tissue. A very distinct endothelial layer was found over most of the internal surface of the cyst. The contents of a primary sanguineous cyst are fluid, and as a rule not coagulable. According to Paget1 the blood which finds its way into a serous cyst is either partially or wholly coagulated, and more or less decolorized. Primary sanguineous cysts as a rule appear congenitally, or during the first decade of life, although they may appear at the other extreme. They are of slow growth and may for a long time remain stationary, or, on the other hand, they may in a few weeks assume enorm- ous proportions, rapidly extend- ing from mastoid process to clavicle. Disappearance of the tumor or decrease in size by com- pression can only be effected in a minority of cases. Even when at the operation large connecting veins have been found, the tumors have been irreducible. Only when deep-seated do they give rise to distressing symptoms by pressure on the pharnyx or larynx, into which they have been known to rupture (Vincent,2 Savory).3 Af- ter puncture, these cysts refill very rapidly with blood. Even after aspiration of a serous cyst a threat- ening hemorrhage into the sac occurred in Mr. Birkett’s hands, and by recurring after each puncture produced extreme anaemia.4 The treatment of sanguineous cysts was until recently limited to tap- ping and the injection of irritating or coagulating fluids. Richardson 5 reports a case successfully treated by the injection of perchloride of iron. This treatment is contra-indicated for cysts from which a connection with a venous trunk can be established by pressure, and since such a con- nection often exists without being demonstrable by so coarse a test, it is doubtful whether injection ought ever be practised. Acupuncture and electrolysis have likewise been resorted to with unsatisfactory re- sults. Aside from their uncertainty, the danger of sepsis from either of these methods is very considerable. Woerner6 has quite recently reported a death from the injection of iodine. The radical measure of total extirpation should be preferred to other procedures, unless the size of the growth or the age of the patient would make the operation more than ordinarily hazardous. In one of Volk- 1 Surg. Path., p. 413, 1870. 2 Quoted by Paget, op. cit., p. 404. 3 Lancet, Nov. 24, 1866. 4Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. li. 4 Dublin Quart. Journ. Med. Sci., Nov., 1869. 6 Beitr. z. klin. Cliir., Bd. i., H. iii. Pig. 1720.