88 DISEASES COMPLICATINOx WOUNDS. treatment. Of late, greater stress has been laid by most surgeons ou external applications. To begin with the simplest of these, elevation of the affected part is certainly of some value; in cases of erysipelas of the fingers or scrotum, we can thus avoid gangrene. Then oil, grease, vaseline, and powders in all forms have been applied. Hebra recom- mended the extensive use of ice, while his followers went so far as to freeze, so to speak, the infected spot. In spite of Hebra’s favorable results with this treatment, it is beyond question that gangrene sets in more easily when the vitality of the tissues is thus lowered. Theoreti- cally, it was a decided step forward, when the attempt was made to destroy the poison produced by the cocci of erysipelas in loco by the hypodermic injection of remedies. Everything has been tried for this purpose, beginning with carbolic acid and like antiseptic solutions, ergotine, quinine, morphine, etc. The results of this treatment have been varied, and at present the method seems to be used only to a very small extent. Starting from the same theoretical idea which led to the hypodermic injection of carbolic acid, inunction with turpentine was recommended by Liicke and others. Besides this, the use of tar and mercurial ointment was advocated. Of other remedies which are still in use, we have to name ChurchilTs tincture of iodine, nitrate of silver, and collodion. Some absolutely reliable authors recommend the tincture of iodine very strongly, but dwell specially upon the fact that this remedy must be used very energetically. We must not forget, however, that its application is extremely painful, and is surely con- traindicated in the severer cases of erysipelas, with tendency to gan- grene and phlegmon. Nitrate of silver has been employed in different forms, but is applicable only in certain portions of the body. The im- portant point is, that that part of the skin to which the remedy is to be applied shall be thoroughly freed from fat, and that not only the red- dened portion shall be thoroughly treated, but also the adjacent parts. Some years ago, Volkmann had entirely given up the use of solutions of less than ten per cent, in strength, and applied exclusively and ener- getically the caustic pencil. The theoretical explanation given for its use is, that the nitrate of silver produces an infiltration of small cells in the part surrounding the seat of infection, forming as it were a wall of living cells of the greatest vitality, which the erysipelas coccus cannot overcome. Collodion, which was used for quite a long time, seems to have been given up entirely till very recently, when Niehans, Sacho, Schneider, and Ratcliffe have recommended it emphatically. Its effect is explained simply by mechanical constriction. It should be avoided on the scalp, whence it is very hard to get it off again, and of course on the eyelids, where its application has been reported to have once caused panophthalmia. It is needless to mention more fully the use of the thermocautery, as it has been abandoned entirely; but scarifications seem to be of the highest value, especially if they are applied in the way which is known as Kraske-Riedel's method. This consists in making cuts somewhat like a worm-fence, from one and one-half to two inches in length, which form an enclosure entirely around the affected spot, at a distance of at least one inch, if possible, from the latter. Special attention must be paid that each cut crosses the two adjacent ones, so that the skin on the one side is really fenced off from the other. After this has been done, and the wound has bled