TUMORS. 256 All occurred in men between thirty and fifty years of age and were of long duration, the growth in one case increasing rapidly after a blow, in two cases attaining the size of a nut only, but in the others the size of a mandarin orange, and accompanied by hydrocele. The tumors were hard, sometimes smooth on the surface, sometimes nodu- lar, and painless. Histologically they were fibro-myomata, and were supposed to have originated from the muscle cells of those deep fibres of the cremaster which penetrate even to the rete testis, called by Henle the cremaster interims. It seems not improbable that these tu- mors are more common than the few reported cases would indicate, for in their clinical history they are so indolent that they might easily be mistaken for the inflammatory nodules of the epididymis which are so common after gonorrhoeal infection. Another rare situation for myomata is in the breast, but no recent- case has been recorded to parallel Virchow’s (quoted by Schuchardt), in which the growth occurred in the mamma of a man thirty-two years of age, in the shape of a dozen indolent tumors the size of a cherry, of thirteen years’ growth, and proving histologically to be pure leio- myomata. Myoma has not infrequently been observed in the stomach and in- testines, and perhaps some at least of the annular fibromata met with in these situations have really belonged to this class of new-growtli. Ac- cording to Virchow they are more common in the stomach than in the bowel wall, and to the five cases already on record Kunze adds two more, one of which caused symptoms by its size, and led to the performance of laparotomy. Bottclier describes two forms of these tumors as occur- ring in the intestine, one polypoid, the other annular. The annular form is made up of fibres both from the circular and longitudinal muscular coats of the gut. Senn successfully removed from the pelvis an intraperitoneal fibro-myoma, which had grown subperitoneally from the anterior wall of the rectum, and weighed twelve pounds. He had once seen a similar small tumor growing from the anterior wall of the bowel lower down, in the recto-vaginal septum, but could find no parallel case in surgical literature, although Sanger is caid to have operated upon an intraperitoneal tumor resembling that of Senn’s first case, the operation not having been published. Myomata are not infrequently found in the skin, but seldom as sin- gle tumors. Babes classifies them according to their origin, from the blood-vessels, from the arrectores pili, or from the deep muscular layer of the skin. The single tumors have been observed by Virchow, Fors- ter, and others, and are most common in the scrotum, mammary gland, and labia majora, where they may attain a very considerable size. A transition form between the single and multiple varieties seems to be shown in the case reported by Hess, in which a dozen little wart-like tumors grew in the skin of the nose, the rest of the body being free from them; when excised, they proved to have originated in the muscular coat of the blood-vessels. The multiple form is more common. Curi- ously enough, four out of five recorded cases (Jadassohn) occurred in women, and on the extensor surface of the arm. They may occur very early in life, and may cause no inconvenience, or may be very painful, as in Hardaway’s case. They form smooth, round, hard tumors, lying in the skin, and are usually of very small dimensions.