896 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. bloody muons. By digital examination I felt the rounded end of an intussuscep- tum, forced down against the finger when the patient strained, and receding when his abdominal muscles were relaxed. There was not much tympany, and I was able fairly well to grasp the tumor externally with both hands, and under a kind of conjoined manipulation—increasing and relaxing the pressure with either hand alternately—it gradually disappeared with gurgling and borborygmus, and the patient professed himself instantly relieved. He had no further bad symptoms; the bowels moved spontaneously in due time; and the man left the hospital in a few days entirely convalescent. Were every case of intussusception as amenable to treatment as this one proved to be, there could be no question that abdominal taxis would be the proper remedy to be adopted; but unfortunately, in the majority of cases, by the time that the diagnosis is made, more or less firm ad- hesions have already formed, and the necessary manipulations are then on the one hand little likely to be successful, and on the other hand not unattended with danger from the possibility of causing rupture of the weakened bowel and consequent fatal peritonitis. Hence it seems to me that the taxis should only be attempted in the early stages of intussus- ception—for instance, during the first four days—or in those compara- tively rare cases, such as that above narrated, in which the absence of bloody and mucous discharge shows that the disease is only subacute in character. When the symptoms show that the invaginated part is very tightly grasped, and when the duration of the case renders it probable that adhesions have already formed, it is, I have no doubt, safer to place the patient under the influence of opium, and await the possibility of cure by the spontaneous separation of the intussusceptum. Enterotomy for Acute Obstruction. In cases of doubtful diagnosis, or in which for any reason the more formidable operation of laparotomy is not thought advisable, enterot- omy, as practised by Nelaton and Bryant, will often afford relief, and may sometimes prove curative. Instead of establishing a false anus, which in the upper part of the small intestine is objectionable, as de- priving the patient of the digestive function of a considerable portion of the bowel, it has been recommended that the segment of gut which it is intended to open should be brought out of the abdominal cavity and packed around with iodoform gauze, and that after making the incision this should be kept patulous by the introduction of a large drainage-tube, or otherwise, the surgeon sitting alongside of the patient for several hours if necessary, and encouraging the escape of faecal mat- ter until the replacement of abdominal distention by flaccidity shows that the contents of the bowel have been thoroughly evacuated, when the wound may be sutured and the intestine restored. It would, how- ever, I think, be safer in most cases, after carefully emptying the bowel in the way described, to leave it unclosed for a few days at least, with its opening outside of the abdominal cavity, and not to attempt resto- ration of the natural channel until it was found that the symptoms of greatest urgency had passed by. According to Dr. B. F. Curtis’s statistics the mortality of enterotomy is about fifteen per cent, less than that of abdominal section.