997 ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. differing but little from that seen in the growths which, from their evi- dently more fibrous structure, are more benign in their character. The mixed variety of sarcoma, from the fact of its marked alveolar arrangement, has often been considered a carcinoma and has been so designated. A common name for it has been medullary or encephaloid cancer. Mr. Butlin apparently prefers to designate these growths as carci- nomata, for his statistics include twenty cases of carcinoma and forty-one of sarcoma. He does not include scirrhus, not having seen any such. Mr. Jacobson also gives carcinoma a place in his nomenclature, and divides it into the scirrhous and encephaloid varieties. He further divides these latter into five sub-varieties, viz.: Cystic, which contain cysts lined with epithelium; reticulated, when the cells are fewer in number and arranged in a narrow meshwork; mixed, when the fibrous stroma, instead of forming alveoli, occasionally develops into cartilage, adipose tissue, and genuine bone; hsematoid, when there is extreme richness of blood supply; and melanotic, only met with as a secondary growth. It should be borne in mind that the question involved is principally one of nomenclature, and not one indicating different tumors. Mr. Sutton 1 says that “formerly it was the fashion to describe all malignant tumors of the testicle as cancer: of late years it has been ascertained that by far the greater number are sarcomata. ... As to whether adenomata and cancers that caricature the secreting structure occur in the testicle, nothing definite is known. So far I have been unable to recognize such a specimen. . . . Malignant tumors of the testis require careful investigation, conducted on a full supply of material, accom- panied by complete clinical histories.” That is all he says on the sub- ject, and he does not even state that there is such a growth as carci- noma of the testis. I believe that all these malignant growths should be designated as sarcomata. There is no division line by means of which we can say that one kind is sarcoma and another carcinoma, and if there were two distinct forms I believe that we should be able to separate them. The matrix varies from a round, embryonal-celled tissue to a more firm fibrous one, and that in the same tumor. The cells are heterogene- ous and not of a pure epithelial type, but incline more to the endothelial or lymphoid type. Prognosis.—This is not good. Kocher2 concludes from a careful examination of the subject that death occurs about two years from the time at which the disease is first noticed. In seven cases that were operated on, and in which the retroperitoneal glands became affected, the average time at which death occurred was twenty-one months after the onset of the disease, and nearly eight months after operation. Besides doubtful cases Kocher had the following six in which the time of survival after operation was ascertained. Two patients lived one year; one, one and a half years; one, four and a half years; one, eight and a half years; and one, ten and a half years. This gives an aver- age duration of life after operation of four and a half years. In only' one of these cases, however, was the growth a rapidly growing tumor 1 Op. cit., p. 257. 2 Die Kranklieiten der mannlichen Gesclilechtsorgane, S. 487.