WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. the basis of extended clinical experience, as a powerful antiseptic. It caused, therefore, quite a commotion among surgeons, when Hejn and Roosing in a well-known publication disclaimed for it all power in this direction. Surgeons were, however, unwilling to accept the results of culture-tube experimentation, even though verified by other investiga- tors, as identical with the action of the drug w^hen in contact with the human body. If iodoform has none or very little influence on germs in culture-media, it evidently does influence their growth in the living body. Various theories have been offered in explanation of this fact. Some believe that iodoform increases the vital action of the tis- sue cells in their conflict with germs; others that iodine, set free by decomposition of a certain quantity of iodoform, exerts an antiseptic influence. According to Koenig iodoform decreases to a great extent the secretion in wounds, and thus removes the medium in which germs develop. Of late, the chemical action of iodoform upon the ptomaines, the products of germ-life, seems to offer the best explanation of its action on wound-surfaces. We know from the work of several inves- tigators that ptomaines can cause suppuration without the presence of the germs which have produced them. On the other hand, the germs without the ptomaines do not always excite suppuration. But the most important outcome of the vast amount of experimental labor devoted to this subject is, that ptomaines, when mixed with iodoform, do not cause suppuration. The former seem to possess the power of decomposing the latter, but they are themselves rendered inert by this chemical change. We may assume, therefore, that the antiseptic qualities of iodoform are due to its affinity for the irritating pro- ducts of the growth of bacteria, but that it is not a parasiticide, exert- ing a directly destructive influence upon micro-oi’ganisms, as is carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate. The treatment of infected wounds should he conducted on the same principles as that of clean wounds. There is no reason why we should any longer to-day uphold the doctrine that clean wounds are to be treated aseptically, and infected wounds antiseptically, that is, with the liberal use of antiseptics for irrigating purposes and for the impregna- tion of dressings. The one great object in dealing with infected wounds should be the provision for free discharge of the secretions which are contained within the tissues or poured out upon the wound-surfaces. This end is attained by establishing convenient outlets for such secre- tions, and by keeping these outlets open until the symptoms of local in- fection have subsided. But it is not likely that we will benefit our pa- tients much in attempting to destroy the germs in wounds by the use of strong antiseptics. Recent investigations have showm that the germs contained in abscesses have to a great extent perished, and that the formation of pus is probably due to the irritation caused by their pro- ducts. It follows that, if we can establish ample drainage for all such collections, there will be no occasion to treat them further with antisep- tics. It will suffice to let them escape from the body. Nor does it seem rational to attempt the destruction of germs in the walls of cavi- ties or sinuses by antiseptic irrigations, in which we will probably be successful to a small extent only, and then very likely in a mechanical way. It is still an open question, whether or not the removal of tis- sues infiltrated with pus and micro-organisms, perhaps already ne-