(75) DISEASES COMPLICATING WOUNDS. ERYSIP- ELAS; SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA; HOSPITAL GANGRENE. BY OTTO G. T. KILIANI, M.D., INSTRUCTOR IN CLINICAL SURGERY AT THE NEW YORK POST-GRADUATE MEDICAL SCHOOL AND HOSPITAL, SURGEON TO THE GERMAN DISPENSARY. I. Erysipelas. Erysipelas 1 is a peculiar infectious and contagious inflammation of the skin and its lymphatic ducts, produced by the micro-organism known as the streptococcus erysipelatis (Fehleisen), and always origi- nates in a lesion of the integument. It assumes the form of a sharply defined, spreading, and migrating redness, always accompanied by rise of temperature and the concurrent symptoms of fever. History. —The history of erysipelas presents for several reasons a very interesting study, because it shows what tremendous progress we have made in the knowledge of the etiology of wound-complications, since bacteriology became a science. It is not saying too much to assert that Hippocrates (460-377 b.c.) was nearly as well acquainted with this disease as we were up to the middle of this century. This is surely true, as far as the clinical symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of erysipelas are concerned, though in earlier times, doubtless, some other diseases of similar character were confounded with it. As to its etiology, we had to wait for men like Trousseau, Billroth, von Volk- mann, Lister, Hiiter, Klebs, and Koch, till finally Fehleisen, whose name has been given to the specific microbe of the affection, proved beyond doubt the origin of this well-known and much-dreaded disease. The immediate apparent result of this great discovery has shown itself not so much in the treatment of erysipelas where it is already present, as in the prophylactic measures to be adopted, a common feature of all the results so far gained in theoretical and experimental bacteriology. Only for the student of medical history would it prove of interest to follow the different courses which the doctrines concerning erysipelas have taken in past centuries. It may be sufficient to say that Hippo- crates, as stated above, in his third book of the Epidemics, gave an exact 1 For synonyms and derivation of the word erysipelas, see Prof. Alfred Stille’s article in Yol. 1.