446 DISEASES OF BONES. Cancellation (osteoporosis) of Compact Tissue in Rachitis. (Lannelongue; Comby.) * to-do parents. In large European cities, however, it is not uncommon for children still in their infancy to be given wine or beer, which is the common drink of the parents. This, I believe, has something to do with the digestive disturbances of these children, the general impair- ment of their nutrition, and the development of rachitis. No study of rachitis is complete which overlooks the serious character of the digestive disturbances which are found in this disorder. Indi- gestion and irregularity of the bowels and imperfect assimi- lation are often associated with absolute dilatation of the stomach, and with dropsy. With these there are often se- rious disturbances of the re- spiratory organs; and bron- chitis, broncho - pneumonia, and spasm of the glottis are frequent accompaniments of the bony de- formities seen in rickets. In rachitis the bones are softened because the cartilage cells do not take up and dispose in the customary trabeculie a proper proportion of the earthy salts which make up the inorganic part of a bone. In bones in which the process of growth is actively going on, bone salts are physiologically being constantly carried off while new supplies are de- posited in their place; in rachitis, the process of deposit being im- paired, that of removal is relatively in excess, and bones which formerly seemed of sufficient firmness lose their firmness and become more or less flexible. The appearance of a bone in which rachitis is clearly developed may be seen in Figures 1615 and 1616. Such bones are unusually spongy in appearance, and have an unusually large medullary canal, and their epi- physes are unusually well developed. This feature of ir rachitis is especially noticeable at the lower end of the | 'S' radius. i Certain students of this disease, as for example Kasso- witz, look upon the proc- ess of rachitis as one of osteitis—a rarefying oste- itis. This is a matter of definition, however, for the general belief is that rachitis is not an irrita- tive disease, as osteitis is. Fig. 1616. Cancellation and Curvation of Rachitic Tibia. (Beylard; Comby.) V. Osteomalacia.—Osteomalacia, as before stated, is a disease of nutrition in which already hardened bones lose their firmness by losing their bone salts. Recent years have not added materially to our knowl- edge of this subject. One of the most interesting recent contributions to its literature is that of Eisenhart,1 according to whose investigations osteomalacia is, as has already been stated, a disorder of nutrition, and not strictly a disease. It is not hereditary; it is not limited to any race, nor to any part of the world. Notwithstanding the expectation 1 Deutsch. Archiv fur klin. Med., Bd. xlix., 1892.