ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 987 testicle twisted in his idiotic manoeuvres. It was gangrenous when ex- cised, the cord being twisted. In eight out of these fifteen cases the testicle is recorded as being un- descended. Dr. Johnson presents the following scheme of differential diagnosis: Strangulated Testicle. Strangulated Hernia. Bubo. Moderate shock. Marked shock. No shock. Possible strain. Probable strain. History of sore or venereal disease. Undescended testicle often. Normal testicle. Normal testicle. External abdominal ring empty. Occupied. Ring empty. Cord twisted but not obscured. Cord obscured. Cord normal. The treatment consists in incision. All of the patients recovered. Benign Fungus of the Testicle.—Owing to the advances made in the pathology of tubercular affections since Koch’s recognition of the tubercle bacillus in 1882, most of the cases which were previously regarded as benign fungus are now known to he of a tubercular nature. Herniae of the testis following syphilis are comparatively rare, as are the cases caused by wounds or sloughing, as from extravasation of urine. The superficial variety, in which the granulations do not come from and are not associated with testicular tissue, but simply spring from an exposed tunica vaginalis or tunica albuginea, are not pro- perly fungoid affections, and fungus associated with malignant disease is an outgrowth of malignant tissue and anything but benign. So that the appellation benign fungus of the testicle really has comparatively little place in the pathological history of the organ. Shield 1 has studied the suppurative affections of the testicle, and as any suppuration of the organ may give rise to a more or less fungoid growth, the varieties which he gives are here appended, viz.: A considerable proportion are due to the softening and disintegration of tuberculous or syphilitic material. It occurs rarely from gonorrhoeal inflammation. Orchitis complicating operations on the bladder and urethra may terminate in suppuration. A certain proportion are due to the sequelae of specific fevers, especially typhoid, or result from pyaemia. Abscess may also follow injuries, and certain cases have been seen to occur, especially in infants, without definite cause. Tuberculous Disease of the Testis.—Tuberculous disease of the testis presents itself clinically in two forms: either as existing appar- ently alone, without other demonstrable lesion, or as associated with other tubercular affections. It is in the former case that operative procedures are of most service. Inasmuch as all tuberculous diseases are regarded as being caused by the bacillus tuberculosis, the question arises, How does it obtain an entrance and locate itself in the testicle and epididymis? Strumpell2 believed that infection took place through the urethra, but this view has not been accepted by others. It is contrary to the course which the disease pursues. The vas deferens is often attacked, but it is not in- 1 Medico-Clnrurgical Transactions, vol. Ixxiv., p. 69, ■ Mlincliener medizinische Wochenschrift, 1887, No. 31.