G58 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. against the inroads of the tubercle bacilli, the result being that the dis- ease gains a foothold in the tissues. Phagocytosis is constantly active in the body, and thus the bacilli are ordinarily overpowered. The re- sisting power of tissues may also be destroyed by poor food, bad air, low fevers, exhaustive diseases, etc.; or the individual may inherit non- resisting cells. In earlier days, when the statement that a patient was tuberculous meant that he was afflicted with a necessarily fatal lung disease, opposition was more violent to the theory that traumatism was a potent factor in the production of the condition. With our more thorough present knowledge of the process involved in local tuberculosis, it is easy to understand that even a slight traumatism may be produc- tive of evil results, and that any tissue with vitality lowered by inflam- mation readily becomes the prey of the invading bacillus. Spinal tuberculosis, therefore, may either be hereditary, or may be acquired in the manner above mentioned. The existence of local tubercular bone disease is frequently over- looked by physicians, simply because they are unable to trace any pre- vious history of tubercular disease in the parents of the individual. But for the frequent errors of this kind it would seem hardly necessary at this day to refer to the great frequency of local tuberculosis, or even to the enormous amount of both known and unintentional deception which is constantly practised in regard to hereditary diseases. Again, many patients say truly that they know of no tubercular disease, and yet it may exist to a very large degree. When positive evidence of tubercular disease is present it should be recognized as such, no matter what the antecedents. There is no rea- son that the same rule should not hold good in regard to a group of symptoms positively indicative of local tuberculosis that is accepted in regard to local sarcoma, fibroma, lipoma, or any other disease. The effect of heredity is easily explained. One individual is born writb cells already tainted, and possessing but feeble resisting power against the inroads of the tubercle bacillus, and he quickly yields to a local or general infection; another individual enters the world with a limited amount of repelling force sufficient to ward off an attack until a local injury with its consequent inflammation lessens the defensive power in that particular region, and vertebral, joint, or other local de- generation occurs; a third maintains the fight until some depressing disease or non-liygienic surrounding lowers his powers of defense, when his tissues yield; while a fourth, with every cell especially fortified by ancestral and personal purity of habits and surroundings, successfully repulses every onslaught of the deadly foe even through traumatism, sickness, and filth. The frequency of the existence of the tuberculous process is evidenced in the fact that its presence was demonstrated in sixty-six out of one hundred cadavers examined by Schlenker.1 The spine is affected in nearly twenty per cent of the cases of local tuberculosis. Taylor2 in 845 cases of spinal caries found that scrofu- lous or tubercular disease could be distinctly traced in at least thirty- four per cent., and Gibney 3 says that he finds either an hereditary or an acquired diathesis in nearly every case. 1 Arehiv f. path. Anat., Phys., und klin. Med., Bd. cxxxiv.. S. 145; Univ. Med. Mag., Dec., 1893, p. 208. 2 Lovett, Diseases of the Hip, p. 04. Boston, 1891. * Gibney, New York Med. Jour., July, 1877.