CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. 1042 The floor of the amphitheatre is circular in outline, with a diameter of 18 feet. Directly over this is a monitor roof of hammered glass, with an area of 280 square feet. Contiguous with this glass roof, at the northerly end of the theatre, is a window made of four sheets of plate glass, the combined area of which is 192 square feet. Beginning at either side of this window is a wainscoting of polished white Italian marble, which encircles the whole operating space. Above this wain- scoting, and projecting over it, is the first circle or tier of the balcony, guarded in front by a heavy iron and brass railing. The balcony affords standing room for about one hundred spectators. Opening out of the amphitheatre, on the westerly side, is a general supply-room.. The corresponding space on the easterly side is a passageway from an outside entrance leading to the balcony, or, through an arched opening in'the marble wall, to additional standing-room for twenty-five specta- tors. This standing-room is obtained by three semicircular tiers of marble flagging, extending from the amphitheatre floor to the sill of the large northern window. The entire basement is concreted. It has no stairway connection with the floor above. The ward and theatre are lighted by electricity. This hospital has recently added to its principal operating theatre some ingeniously devised sterilizing apparatus in special rooms for the purpose, and other rooms for the work of a clinical laboratory, a provi- sion which is now becom- ing a necessity for every great hospital. An excellent example of a special operating room is now to be seen at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. The gynaeco- logical department being found to need a place to be used exclusively for operative work, a build- ing was erected for that purpose in 1891. It was placed conveniently near the private ward for women. A plan of it is shown in Fig. 1797. Its convenient and simple arrangement, and its ingenious special devices, make it an admirable model of a fitting provision for its work. The building comprises a large operating room, 25.8 by 25.9 feet, the floor of which is covered with Sinsig tiles laid upon lime of Teil arches, and the walls are wainscoted to the height of four feet with Tennessee marble. The walls are plastered with King’s cement, which furnishes a hard, smooth, and non-absorbent surface. Adjoining the operating- room is an etherizing-room, 10 by 12 feet. Communicating with this is a recovery-room of the same size, with an adjoining bathroom and water-closet. The building has also a supply water-closet, dressing- room, and photographic room. It is heated by steam and ventilated by a shaft. The floor of the building is on a level with the floor of the main corridor, and the building is one story in height. The operating- room is lighted by two windows looking west, a large double window Fig. 1797. Gynaecological Operating-room, Johns Hopkins Hospital.