SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. 879 The incision should he in the long axis of the tumor, and may be made by cutting directly down upon the mass, or by pinching up the skin and fat immediately over the swelling, transfixing it, and cutting outward. It should be of good length, extending from one inch above the internal ring to the spine of the pubis. All bleeding should be ar- rested at once with catgut ligatures. The wound should be irrigated with 1-3000 sublimate solution occasionally, as the operation progresses, until the sac and peritoneal cavity are opened, but after this irrigation is not permissible until the cavity is again closed by folding in or liga- ture of the sac. The first difficult point in the operation is the recognition of the sac. This comes into view when the skin, fat, and deep fascia have been divided and are held apart by retractors. When one is uncertain as to when the sac is reached, it is a safe procedure to grasp the coverings of the hernia with two “rat-tooth” forceps, lifting only a very thin portion at each time, and carefully cutting with the scalpel or dull scissors between the grasp of the two pairs of forceps, until finally a few drops of serum, clear or straw-colored in the case of a recently stran- gulated hernia, black or bloody looking fluid in the case of a long strangulated or necrotic mass, exude from the puncture. This will occur in the proportion of forty-nine out of fifty operations. In very rare cases the sac may be adherent to the intestine, and puncture of the gut has occurred under such circumstances. Even should this occur, it is not dangerous, as the opening can be closed before reduction is effected by Lembert’s suture. As the fluid begins to escape through the puncture in the sac, a grooved director with a very dull point is in- serted through the aperture, and the sac is divided until the finger can be admitted, when this is introduced and the sac further incised as may be desired. The contents are now clearly in view. A thorough irriga- tion should be made, using warm boric-acid solution,' or water that has been boiled and allowed to cool to 110° or 120° F. The strangu- lation of the neck prevents the irrigating fluid or any septic matter from entering the peritoneal cavity. The hands of the operator should now be carefully re-cleansed. By carrying the index finger of the left hand toward the constriction, with the palmar surface upward, the nail can be slipped under the constricting band, usually at the neck of the sac. Very frequently I have been able to stretch or tear this band of constriction with the finger nail unaided by the knife, by making pressure directly upward. The intestine is not injured in the least, nor can any harm be done. Within a min- ute or two the nail and the soft end of the finger will so stretch the band of constriction around the hernial contents that the in- testine drops back into the peritoneal cavity. If this cannot be done with the finger nail and finger, these should be introduced in the same way, and a long, probe-pointed bistoury should be carried flat-wise along the palmar aspect of the finger until the dulled point passes be- tween the sharp edge of the ring and the nail. The edge is now turned upward against the ring, and is pressed against this by the finger upon which it rests. The direction of this cut should be upward and very slightly inward in inguinal hernia. It should not extend beyond an eighth of an inch. The finger nail is usually sufficient to enlarge the opening after the first few fibres are divided.