ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 995 mate tissue connection. The cord seemed to enter the tumor and then pass into its substance for two inches before reaching the testicle. There was no hernia. On finding that the trabeculae and blood-vessels radiat- ing from the testicle into the fatty mass were so numerous and distinct, the whole mass was removed together. It weighed three pounds. A case somewhat resembling the above was reported by Carl Koch.1 It occurred in a man aged forty-nine years, who two years previously had noticed the growth commencing. In one year it had reached the size of a fist, and in two years had descended to the knees. It seemed to send a process into the inguinal canal. The testis was normal in size and was fixed to the under part of the tumor. The penis was concealed beneath the skin. The tumor and testicle were removed, and weighed ten pounds. The growth was composed of fat lobules and dense fibrous tissue, and arose apparently from the cord. Malignant Diseases of the Testicle.—The pathology of malig- nant diseases of the testicle is involved in as much obscurity as is that of the more benign tumors. The clinical features of the growths which have been variously designated as sarcomata and carcinomata are essentially the same. Scirrhous Carcinoma.— Such cases as the following sometimes occur, although but rarely. Inasmuch as they present a distinct clinical his- tory, and distinct macroscopical and microscopical appearances, they may, for the present, be permitted to stand alone, as separate from the sarcomata. Rockwell2 excised the testicle of a man aged thirty-five years. Two months previous to the operation the patient had noticed a hard nodule of the right testis. At the time of operating it was of the size of a large grape. There were burning, lancinating pains, which became continuous. The mass was stony hard and very sensitive to pressure, and a similar smaller nodule occupied the tail of the epi- didymis. There was no induration of the lymphatic glands, and the patient had never had any venereal disease. The testicle was excised and the tumor was diagnosed as scirrhus by Dr. Tieste, the pathologist to the hospital, as also by Dr. Hunt, the curator. The report states that the tumor was an irregularly shaped mass, and that there was no defi- nite line of demarcation between the normal and diseased tissues. Su- periorly, where the hardness was most marked, the growth was gritty on section by the knife, and presented the glistening white color with small yellowish spots characteristic of scirrhus. On microscopical examination well-formed connective tissue was found containing numerous blood-vessels. It was interesting to note the large number of cells and “cell nests,” which were more numerous than is usual in cases of scirrhus. In a little over three months the patient returned with a similar tumor occupying the epididymis of the other testicle, which was also removed, and was found to be like in structure to the first. The patient, a year and two months after the second operation, was still free from the disease. Sarcoma of the Testis.—With the possible exception of scirrhus, as above mentioned, all the malignant diseases of the testicle are of a sar- comatous nature. Lympho-sarcomata and myo-sarcomata have suffi- 1 Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie, Bd. xxxii., Heft 3 und 4. 2 Annals of Surgery, vol. viii., p. 446.