* SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT OF HERNIA. 887 been reported as caused by the button not coining away, or by its lu- men becoming closed, or by the intestines being occluded by its weight. As to the comparative advantage between end-to-end and lateral anastomosis by bone or vegetable plates, catgut rings, or the segmented rubber ring, the preference should be for end-to-end reunion. When a lateral anastomosis does become necessary or advisable (a rare condi- tion, in my opinion), I should prefer direct suture around the two open- ings to be joined, rather than any of the apparatus heretofore recom- mended for the purpose. When immediate excision and reunion are not advisable, and a secondary operation is undertaken, the manner of exposing the fistulous part of the gut, which has just been described, should be followed. The question of walling off the part of the intestine operated upon should depend upon the condition of the intestine beyond that point. As a rule it is safer to wall the gut off, and thus prevent any possible danger of the sutures giving way, or of the intestinal contents es- caping into the general peritoneal cavity. One objection to this method is that it leaves a weak point in the abdominal wall, as the wound must be allowed to close by granulation. Should ventral hernia result it can be subsequently closed by operation. When there is the least doubt as to the integrity of the line of sutures in the gut, I should advise the open method. When it is desired to establish an artificial anus, the strangulation should be relieved as already directed, and the bowel should then be incised. In the course of a few days, when the patient has fully re- covered from the effects of the strangulation and of the operation, the canal may be restored by opening the abdomen, exsecting the pro- truding intestine, and uniting the ends by suture as already described; or the operation of Dupuytren may be undertaken. This consists in gradually breaking down the promontory formed by the contiguous walls of the incarcerated loop, and, when this is done, allowing the external wound to close by granulation. The instrument used in this operation is in shape not unlike a pair of forceps, with flat, roughened jaws, and with long handles which can be locked by a clamp. The jaws are introduced at first for a slight distance only, one going into the ascending and the other into the descending part of the loop of in- testine, when they are closed and clamped in such a manner that the walls of the promontory are held firmly in contact.1 The instrument is allowed to remain in position. Adhesion occurs in the contiguous peri- toneal coverings of the gut, while that part of the promontory which is firmly grasped by the instrument sloughs away. This procedure has been successful in a sufficient number of cases to justify its em- ployment. If a cure is not effected, or if stricture should result, sub- sequent exsection should be performed. Inguinal hernia in the female has the same relation to the epigastric vessels as in the male subject. In the complete form the contents may descend into the labium. The treatment does not differ materially from that already described. The radical operation is simpler than in the male for the reason that the spermatic cord is not involved, and the hernia is more readily cured. Cysts of the canal of Nuck not infre- 1 See Fig. 1206, Vol. V., page 581, supra.