349 ANEURISM. by proliferation of muscle cells from the media, does not seem yet to be settled, and it is not worth while to discuss the matter here; but in the absence of sepsis, a clean ligature applied to the vessel aseptically, results in definitive closure of that vessel at the point tied, without suppuration, the ligature remaining encysted and never being heard from. The dis- turbance of surrounding parts when an artery is ligated, and the neces- sity at one time thought to exist for very limited denudation, need not be considered, provided that there is absence of sepsis. The evil influ- ence of suppuration on the process of cicatrization of blood-vessels can- not be too earnestly insisted on. Failure to obtain definitive closure of a vessel is not seen in clean wounds; and the many deaths recorded as resulting from secondary hemorrhage are mainly evidences of failure to preserve wounds aseptic. Of course it is a fact that, in a cer- tain number of cases, a vessel after having been once injured may give way without the supervention of suppuration, but such cases are rare. Again, when it is recognized that a surgeon has usually in his hands the power of preventing secondary hemorrhage and the evil effects of suppuration on vessels by prompt and cleanly action, it is all the more necessary for him to exercise such power. Aneurism. During the time that has elapsed since the article on aneurism was published,1 the changes which have come to pass are those mainly due to the recognition of the advantages directly resulting from aseptic methods in operating, and the unhappy state of affairs which would follow if such a method of operating were not recognized and followed out; and the treatment of aneurism has accordingly been much modified. The methods of flexion and compression in aneurisms of the extrem- ities, are much less made use of at present than in times past, owing to the comparative safety of the ligature and the good results which may be expected confidently to result therefrom. Indeed, it is proper to say that when an aneurism is recognized, the question will present it- self at once to the surgeon’s mind, “Is there any reason why ligation should not be done?” and if not proper, then other methods may be had recourse to. Atheroma of an artery, or a diseased arterial wall from other cause, scarcely seems to be a sufficient reason why ligation should not be practised, provided that it is done in such a way as to avoid the occurrence of inflammation. The application of a ligature, then, to an artery on the proximal side of an aneurism, and the almost certain closure of the same without trouble, has done away with the necessity for employing other methods of treatment so well explained and described in the original article of Mr. Barwell. The material to be used for ligatures can be appreciated by referring to the preceding section on Injuries of the Blood-Vessels. Secondary hemorrhage after ligation for aneurism is now not to be expected, at least from the point where the ligature is applied; but other complications resulting from the persistence of the sac of the aneurism, containing more or less blood and coagulum, still remain to endanger the otherwise excellent outcome resulting from the ligation— ! See Vol. II., page 825.