(403) INJURIES OF BONES. BY JOHN H. PACKARD, M.D., SURGEON TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL AND TO ST. JOSEPH’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Since the publication of my former article there have been, as will appear in the following pages, very considerable additions to the rec- ords of experience in fractures and their treatment. The general adoption of the antiseptic system will be found to have influenced this, as it has all other departments of surgery. Thus in compound frac- tures, the sterilization of the wound goes far toward setting aside the chief danger, and making a conservative course possible. And any operative procedure, as, for instance, in dealing with failures of union, or with cases where union has taken place with deformity, may be much more safely undertaken. So much has been said and written on this topic, that it need not be further dwelt upon here, especially as it will be referred to occasionally in connection with the fractures of cer- tain bones. In the arrangement of the subject, the order followed will be in the main that of my former article. Fragility of the Bones. Some curious cases of fragility of the bones have been reported. Pritchard 1 mentions a child who two days after its birth was found to have fractures of the left humerus and femur; next day the right humerus gave way, from very slight cause, and three weeks after- ward the right femur was found to be broken. Union was progress- ing well at the time of the report. The father had been one of eight children, two of whom had had fractures in infancy; his brother had four children, the first of whom had had a fracture of the arm, the third one of the femur, and the fourth fractures of all four limbs. In every instance the bones had given way spontaneously at or soon after birth. Graham2 publishes a letter from a patient (age not stated, nor sex) who says that within his own recollection he had suffered eighteen frac- tures; his right arm had been broken nine times, his left twice; his right leg twice, his left leg three times; his clavicles once each. Sev- eral other fractures had occurred in his early infancy. His father had had broken bones fourteen times; a cousin, twenty-one times (in his case not until advanced life); his grandfather had had a brother who 1 Lancet, September 1, 1883. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, May 15, 1884.