( 669 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. BY CHARLES W. KOLLOCK, M.D., lecturer on diseases of the eye and ear in the charleston medical school and oph- thalmic SURGEON TO the CHARLESTON CITY HOSPITAL AND SHIRRAS DISPENSARY, CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. Anesthetics in Eye Surgery. The discovery of the property which cocaine possesses of causing local anaesthesia, and of the wonderful effects produced by the practice of asepsis and antisepsis, have given ophthalmology an impetus that has kept it abreast of all the special branches of medicine, and allowed it to be surpassed by none. Ether and chloroform are rarely used in ophthalmic practice except in the performance of operations that re- quire considerable time, for enucleation and evisceration, resection of the optic nerve, and in cases of children who on account of their ner- vous temperaments fear any kind of operation. Bromide of ethyl, which has long been known as an ansesthetic suitable for operations that require but a short time, has of late come more into notice, and is now being used for such operations as enucleation and strabotomy. Tropcicocaine is a substitute for cocaine, but as yet is rather too expen- sive for general use, especially as cocaine fills almost every want. An- aesthesia by tropacocaine is said to last longer and to be more readily produced upon inflamed surfaces than that caused by cocaine. It may be employed in solutions of two per cent, for ordinary purposes, and of five per cent, for deep-seated operations. It has no haemostatic or my- driatic effect (Ferdinand). Asepsis and Antisepsis in Eye Surgery. In the treatment of all ocular diseases and in the performance of all operations, absolute cleanliness should be the first rule learned and carried out. Boiled distilled water should be used for making all solu- tions, and the antiseptics employed should be those possessing the strong- est germicidal and the least irritating effects. It is scarcely safe to use bichloride of mercury for the conjunctiva in solutions stronger than 1 in 8000 or 1 in 10,000, for severe conjunctivitis has been produced by a solution of 1 in 5000 parts. For cleansing the parts surrounding the eye, solutions of 1 in 2000 or 1 in 3000 may be employed with- out fear. Solutions of bichloride of mercury are of course not suita-