2G INFLAMMATION. cidal power over the bacillus Chauvoei, while that of rabbits, which are relatively refractory, was harmless toward this same bacillus, another confirmation of the fact that one cannot judge of the immunity of an animal to a disease by the bactericidal power of its dead fluids toward the bacterium of this disease. Moreover, it has already been empha- sized by Ruffer himself,1 that in the same way that the living blood differs by its optical, chemical, and physiological characteristics from the dead blood, in the same way does the action of living fluids upon bacteria differ entirely from that of dead fluids. Depending upon the principle that in order to study the action of the fluids of the economy upon a bacterium, they must be observed in the living body, a method employed by Metchnikoff and others was used. The powder to be studied was enclosed in a little bag of filter-paper, like what the pharmacists use to put up powders, the two folds of the bag being closed with paraffin. The bag, containing five decigrammes of the first vaccine, was introduced for twenty-four or forty-eight hours under the skin of a large rabbit, then taken out, the contents examined, and the whole placed in absolute alcohol to harden it well. The appear- ance varied a little if a cover-glass preparation was made from the powder. In the centre of the little packet, most of the bacilli developed were normal, although the growth of some of them was less than that of their neighbors. The contour of the latter was irregular, and staining by Gram's method was less intense, and frequently replaced by the contrast color of vesuvine. Very frequently long filaments could be observed in which some bacilli appeared perfectly normal, and stained well with gentian violet, while others had an irregular contour, and stained by vesuvine. It would be extremely difficult to decide whether these differences were due to the partial degeneration of the bacteria, or whether one had to do simply with organisms whose development had been for one reason or another retarded. If the powder was ex- amined forty-eight hours after inoculation, these irregular forms in- stead of being more numerous were much less so, and even might not be found at all; and if, instead of examining the central portion of the powder, the dust made by it on the surface of the paper was studied, there were to be found there a quantity of absolutely normal bacilli. Here and there in the interior of the sac there were to be found a few leucocytes, and these experiments seemed to show conclusively that the bacillus Chauvoei grew perfectly in the tissues of refractory rabbits. Sections made of the paper of the bag (hardened in alcohol, then in chloroform, the chloroform saturated with paraffin, and finally in pure paraffin) showed many interesting things: first, a very great activity of the bacilli, for it could be seen that they had forced a passage for a certain distance between the fibres of the paper, while on the other hand the leucocytes, attracted by the poison secreted by the bacteria, had penetrated in immense quantities between the fibres of the paper, so that an encounter between the bacteria and the leucocytes had in- evitably taken place at a certain point. It could be seen that certain of the leucocytes in advance contained bacteria, either normal or in process of degeneration, while others had themselves perished in the struggle, as could be clearly seen by the signs of degeneration that they presented. Behind this advance guard could be found a mass of 1 British Medical Journal, May 24, 1890.