717 CORYZA OR RHINITIS. valuable in the acute stage of idiosyncratic coryza, morphine is the most reliable. From TV to grain of morphine sulphate may be given twice or oftener per diem, and will insure comfort in many cases; for evident reasons it should be given as little as possible. Atropine, anti- pyrine, asafoetida, and valerian have their advocates, but in the hands of specialists seem seldom to give relief at all commensurate with their drawbacks. Tonics, stimulants, and nutrients are very often indicated, and the mode of life should be as hygienic as possible. Climatic change to a high elevation or barren sea-coast, or such as is given by a long sea voyage, often offers the only hope of relief in severe examples of the “pollen cases.” During the interval between the attacks, a hay-fever patient should receive careful and appropriate treatment for any form of nasal disease which may exist. If any form of chronic rhinitis be present it must be cured; any serious obstructions to respiration, whether eccliondroses. bony spurs, or polypi, must be removed; and all hypersesthetic areas should be carefully searched for and cautiously cauterized. The discovery and destruction of these sensitive areas in purely “ pol- len cases” may be said to comprise the successful treatment of the dis- ease. They should be sought for by careful probing under full illumi- nation and inspection, and are not usually very difficult to localize by the starting, sneezing, or other evidences of unusual irritation given by the patient, even without his verbal statements. The anterior por- tions of the septum and the anterior region of the middle turbinated body are the most common situations of the sensitive spots. When localized, the area should be lightly seared with the cautery point, great care being taken not to burn too extensive an area or to interfere seriously with the blood supply. If every area of abnormal sensibility can be found, and the nerve-endings destroyed, there will be no return of the paroxysms in at least fifty per cent, of the purely pollen cases. In regard to the “central” vaso-motor cases, space forbids a proper consideration of their treatment, which frequently comes within the province of the neurologist rather than of the surgeon. The patient requires treatment more than the local disease, and such measures as well chosen climatic changes, rest, systematic outdoor exercise, regu- lated bathings, general faradization and massage, are commonly much more valuable than surgical procedures. Local treatment has at least a palliative action, and may act also by transmitting favorable influ- ences to the medulla; the various medical measures above mentioned are indicated, and any special source of irritation must be removed. Other neuroses, especially of the eyes, larynx, and bronchi, may exist in hay-fever cases and be more or less dependent on the nasal disease. Their cure depends on the early removal of the cause by proper means, medical or surgical. Chronic Rhinitis.—Although extensive contributions have been made to our knowledge of both the pathology and the treatment of this group of diseases, the general aspect of the subject remains the same. Perhaps the most important advances have been in the establishment of the direct etiological relationship between chronic coryza and many, or perhaps most, diseases of the ears, larynx, and bronchi, and of the eyes in many instances. Practically all cases of otitis media are now known