(33) VOL. vii.—3 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. BY FRED. KAMMERER, M.D. SURGEON TO SAINT FRANCIS’S HOSPITAL AND TO THE GERMAN HOSPITAL, NEW YORK. I. Wounds. Although some modern authors still believe that an immediate union of wound-surfaces can take place without the interposition of granulation-tissue, and that the severed parts become reunited by an exact apposition of the corresponding microscopical elements of such surfaces, this view is no longer held by the majority of investigators. Even when wounds heal by primary intention, with no outward signs of inflammatory reaction, a certain amount of regenerative material is thrown out between the wound-surfaces, which, however minute in quantity, still tends to bind the latter together, and is finally transformed into a scarcely perceptible mass of cicatricial tissue. When absolute asepsis has been secured by the efforts of the surgeon, this healing process is essentially of a regenerative nature, unaccom- panied by symptoms of inflammation. Before the antiseptic era such results were infrequently obtained, and even when sutured wounds did not afterward separate, inflammatory reaction showed itself in liyper- remia and swelling along the line of suture. The causes which are instrumental in setting up such reaction in wounds are, mechanical ir- ritation of wound-surfaces, the presence of foreign material, mainly necrosed tissues, but more especially the introduction into the wound of micro-organisms which by their multiplication give rise to the symp- toms of wound-infection. We are to-day enabled to guard against the latter, but we are not always able to entirely avoid the effects of me- chanical irritation and of the interposition of necrosed tissues and blood- clots between the wound-surfaces. It is well to bear this in mind, when wTe study the histological changes during the healing of wounds. If we could observe the latter under the microscope, we would notice, as an indication of inflammatory reaction, an infiltration of leucocytes, how- ever small, in some parts of most aseptic wounds. But this manifes- tation is wholly secondary in importance. It has at times been regarded as the necessary precursor of all regeneration and repair in wounds. This theory has now given way to that which assumes that the fixed tissue and parenchyma cells are the active agents in the work of repair, and that the leucocytes which have emigrated from the blood-vessels are doomed to destruction either by absorption or expulsion, in the lat- ter instance as the main constituents of pus.