INJURIES OF BONES. 408 scribed as peculiar to the femur and tibia, but which may also occur in the clavicle, ribs, humerus, and forearm, should be recognized as a distinct class. As a rule they affect the weakest and thinnest por- tions of the bone. One of their marked features is pain, extend- ing upward and downward, and increased by pressure so as to be unbearable; there is often effusion of blood at the painful spots, and if the injury is near a joint, this is apt to be swollen and tender. Such fractures, Ivroell states, are attended with special danger of fat-em- bolism, of septicaemia, and of gangrene; and when they unite, they do so but slowly. The subject of fractures penetrating joints has been ably discussed by Oberst.1 He says that these injuries are too apt to be followed by anchylosis. Such a result may be due either (1) to too prolonged con- finement of the joint at rest; (2) to inflammatory processes from trau- matism ; (3) to excessive deposits of callus; or (4) to intra-articular and extra-articular extravasation of blood. On the other hand, ab- normal mobility, with weakness and instability, may be the conse- quence'of too prolonged rest. Either of these conditions will generally yield to massage and passive motion, or may subside spontaneously with time. The indications for treatment are clear: withdrawal of blood by puncture, if necessary; even and methodical compression, if this will serve to cause absorption, and subsequently a merely reten- tive bandage; and massage, with careful and painless passive motion, from the first. Fractures in Aged Persons. Humphry2 has collected 19 cases of this kind, the oldest patient having reached the age of 100, while the youngest was 68; the aver- age being a trifle over 80. In two of these, a man aged 86 and a woman aged 68, a fatal result ensued; in the remainder, or nearly 90 per cent., good union was obtained. One of these cases, reported by Groom,3 was that of a woman 81 years of age, who sustained a fracture of the femur and a luxation of the shoulder; in six weeks she was able to walk with a stick, and at the end of five months she walked a distance of four miles. Conditions Attending and Consequent upon Fractures. According to Verchere,4 phosphaturia and polyuria are apt to attend fractures, as well as other lesions of bone; he cites cases in which the former condition seemed to have predisposed to fracture, but not to have impeded union. Sometimes, however, it has delayed consolida- tion. The influence it exerts is not yet clearly defined. Grossich5 has noted a rise of temperature in cases of fracture, and in other lesions and operations affecting the bones; his observations confirm those of Stickler, formerly quoted. He has also remarked an 1 Schmidt’s Jalirb., 15 Juli, 1888, from von Volkmann’s Samml. klin. Vortrage, No. 311, 1888. 2 Brit. Med. Journ., July 12, 1884. 3 Lancet, April 12, 1884. 4 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 26 Sept., 1885. 5 Med. Times (London), June 6, 1885.