DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. 499 in and practise ambulatory treatment with a long traction splint, vari- ously described as the Davis, Taylor, or Sayre splint. That the results by this method are so good that early resection is not practised by the representative men, but is regarded as a measure to be adopted when mechanical treatment.has failed and the general condition of the patient is becoming bad. In these cases it is rather to be regarded as a life- saving measure than as an operation likely to yield brilliant results. English surgeons, however, incline much more to early resection,1 and do not regard the “American method, ” as the traction method is called, with favor. In place of the long traction splint, cases are treated by bed extension, and when the time for going about has arrived, by the Thomas fixation splint. It is hard to arrive at any correct idea of the comparative value of the two methods by any comparison of sets of figures. One can only conclude that in view of the serious nature of the disease the results by either method are surprisingly good. In suppurative cases, Shaffer and Lovett2 reported 26 which had been investigated from four to ten years after the cessation of treatment by traction: 2 patients had re- covered with perfect motion, 3 with 90° of motion, 5 with from 10° to 45°, 4 with slight motion, and 12 with anchylosis. Howard Marsh analyzed 37 suppurative cases one year after discharge. These cases had been treated by rest in bed with extension, and afterwards the Thomas splint. In the 37 cases be found one with perfect joint motion, free movement in 10 cases, slight movement in 7 cases, and anchylosis in 18 cases. It would seem on general principles that cases treated without con- tinuous traction should show a greater elevation of the trochanter than would cases treated by traction, and that traction must exercise a quieting influence on the joint which cases treated by fixation alone can never obtain. By a combination of traction and fixation, a method which will presently be described, it would seem that the ad- vantages of both plans might be secured. With regard to the merits of excision as compared with mechanical treatment, there are two factors to be considered: (1) the mortality rate in the two methods; and (2) the functional results to be obtained. (1) The Mortality Rate in the Two Methods.—Mr. Wright,3 in an- alyzing 2461 cases of hip excision done with and without antisepsis, found a mortality percentage of 34 per cent., the older groups, such as Leisrink’s,4 giving 63.6 per cent., and Culbertson’s 41.6 per cent, in 418 cases. Bradford and Lovett give a table of results of excision under modern conditions as follows:— That is to say, the immediate mortality of excision, not counting the remote results, is not less than 30 per cent. The operation has Mortality per cent. Volkmann, 48 cases, . Korff, 33 “ Grosch, 166 “ Alexander, 36 “ 25.30 48.5 36.7 30.6 1 Barker, British Med. Journal, June 9, 1888, 2 New York Med. Journal, May 21, 1887. 3 G. A. Wright, Hip Disease in Childhood. 4 Arch. f. klin. Ohirurgie, Bd. xii., S. 177.