BULLETS. 109 ately ’as the range is greater. No material difference in size commonly exists between these wounds, that of entrance being of about the dia- meter of the ball, and that of exit but little larger, except when there has been injury of bone; and even then much increase in size is by no means always observed. The entrance wound is commonly round, with edges clean cut or, more often, turned in; that of exit round, slit-like, or stellate, according to the elasticity of the skin and its attachment to the parts beneath. The character of the lesion, be it of soft parts, of bone, or of viscus, depends largely upon whether or not the person wounded was within or without the “zone of explosive action,” a zone extending about twice as far as formerly, that is, to from 350 to 500 yards. Within this distance the effects of the shot, though somewhat less serious perhaps, differ but little from those heretofore observed, the destruction in either case being at short range very great. In the longer range, there is much less damage done than by the old, large, soft-lead bullet. Espe- cially is this true in the soft parts, in which the shot-canal is but little if any larger in cross section than the missile itself, and the devitalization of surrounding tissue is of much more limited extent. The ball pass- ing through a muscle in the direction of its length may only separate the fibres, so that it may be difficult or even impossible to find its track. It is probable that fatal primary hemorrhage will be less frequent, because of the smaller size of the bullet, though the greater velocity of the missile will make it much more unlikely that any vessel in its course can escape injury. The larger nerves are more endangered, for the same reason. It is in the bones that the most marked differences in the character and extent of injury have been found to exist; in some measure within, but greatly more without the “explosive zone.” Speaking generally, there is more boring and less smashing. In the middle distance, that is, between 500 and 2000 yards (and it is in this range that most of the wounds will occur), the bullet, striking the shaft of a long bone, as a rule gutters it or perforates it quite cleanly, producing few fissures, and consequently large fragments, which are generally but little displaced, and at times not at all so. Much of the periosteum may remain un- torn, holding the fragments together. When it is an articular ex- tremity that has been injured above or through the joint, there is even less comminution, the perforation is a clean one, and the wound of the bone is much like a seton wound of the soft parts. At close range, and at a remote distance (2000 yards or beyond) , the amount of destruc- tion is very much greater, and the injuries are not materially different from those observed in the wars of the past. At all distances the short and flat bones are less damaged than the long ones, and much less so than formerly. Visceral lesions, aside from those necessarily fatal, will in all probability be found to be decidedly less severe, certainly in the middle distance, the shot track being smaller, the damage to the surrounding tissue less, and the missile passing through and out. Whether or not in organs like the brain, liver, spleen, or kidney, hydraulic pressure is greater than before, is somewhat uncertain; but it probably is not, outside of the “explosive zone.” At short range such pressure has at times been found to cause most extensive destruc- tion, even when the shot has struck a well-filled hollow viscus.