772 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. lobes; it is soft, often slightly lobulated, presenting to the touch islands of greater resistance within. On section it resembles macroscopically the normal thyroid tissue. This follicular goitre is essentially a prolifera- tion of the follicular cell elements, whereby the follicles themselves are enlarged and their number increased. Irregularity in the growth of the cell masses causes nodular or cord-like excrescences from the parent follicle, from which in their further development they become entirely separated. Stimulated to activity by the cell proliferation, the inter- stitial connective tissue provides a capsule for these isolated masses. New and larger follicles are thus produced. Irregularities in the growth of the new cell masses and follicles, the limitation of the pro- cess to one part of the gland, and the difference in age of the new formed tissue, wrill give a nodulated appearance to the follicular goitre. Whether single or multiple, the presence of the nodules of soft consis- tence is of sufficient clinical importance to warrant for follicular goitres containing them the term nodular goitre, or struma noclosa. The follicular goitre may continue as such indefinitely. As a rule, however, the follicular hyperplasia is followed by secondary changes in the stroma, the vascular supply, or the follicular cell elements them- selves, thus giving rise to further varieties of the disease. (2) Fibrous Goitre.—Responsive to the irritation of the proliferating follicles, the connective tissue of the follicular walls and of the stroma participates in the hyperplasia. The development of new interstitial tissue may proceed rapidly until the goitre is pervaded by fine inelastic masses of fibrous tissue. In places the follicular element is entirely supplanted by hard fibrous nodes, varying in size, of white or yellowish color, creaking under the knife, almost devoid of blood-vessels, hnd on section resembling the structure of the semilunar cartilages, and quite as firm. Hence the name formerly given of scirrhous or cartilaginous goitre. The sclerotic masses vary greatly in size and in number. From the size of a filbert they may grow to that of a hen’s egg. When single, they send fibrous prolongations toward the periphery; when multiple they are joined together by similar bands. The fibrous node is often surrounded by a layer of proliferating vascular gland tissue. The fibrous goitre is generally nodular, limited to one or other lobe, or to part thereof, and by itself does not give rise to a tumor of large size. Occasionally, however, sclerosis of the entire gland is followed by dire results through compression of the trachea, although the goitre itself may appear quite small. (3) Vascular Goitre.— The influence of vascular engorgement on the size of the thyroid gland is manifested in certain physiological states, such as menstruation, sexual excitement, and pregnancy. An increase in the number and volume of its blood-vessels belongs to every goitre. It is only when there is a preponderance of vessels over glandular growth that the term vascular is applicable. The increase in the number and size of the vessels may affect the arteries or the veins. Following the lead of Virchow, writers speak of an arterial or aneu- rismal goitre, and of a venous or varicose goitre. In the former the arteries are uniformly dilated and their anastomotic branches greatly increased in number. There is no tendency to the formation of saccular dilatations. The vessels involved are chiefly those displayed on the