CORYZA OR RHINITIS. 715 if left to take care of itself. If the patient is not seen until infiltration has progressed, the same sprays may be used with some benefit, hut the cocaine should be omitted, as at tins stage it seriously lowers the tone of the membrane and aggravates and prolongs the disease. It is during the stage of acute vascular distention that the alkaloid acts most hap- pily. The use of menthol as an inhalant is of much value all through the course of the disease. The “inhalers” employed are well known to the drug trade, and consist of glass tubes filled with menthol crystals, which are confined by two perforated discs of metal or fibre. The end of the tube terminates in a cone, which is introduced into the nostril during inspiration, the menthol fumes being thus drawn into the nose. A sensation of coolness and comfort is produced, very satisfactory to the patient; the inhalation may be used as frequently as may seem de- sirable. Much of the sedative treatment which will be discussed under hay fever applies equally to an attack of ordinary acute coryza, and may be used with benefit in the latter disease. Internally, a dose of about yV grain of morphine may be given at bedtime along with a hot whiskey lemonade, and will complete the cure in many instances. Quinine, although occasionally useful, is a remedy which I seldom employ, as its qse greatly increases the dangers of Eustachian sal- pingitis and middle-ear complications. After a “cold” has become es- tablished sodium bromide may be given in full doses, and seems to shorten the attack while it certainly adds to the comfort of the patient. Tincture of euphrasia in ten-drop doses has been highly recommended by G. M. Garland, but has given less satisfactory results in other hands. Beverly Robinson gives carbonate of ammonium “ in frequently repeated and tolerably large doses.” In long-continued attacks tonics are often needed, strychnine and a reliable wine of coca being especially valuable. Complications from extension of the disease to the Eustachian tubes, frontal sinuses, larnyx, etc., demand close attention and appropriate treatment, and make up the dangers of an attack of acute coryza, the complication often developing after the nasal inflammation appears to have nearly run its course. Idiosyncratic Coryza.—Numerous elaborate papers have been con- tributed to the subject of “hay fever,” adding greatly to our knowledge of both the pathology and the treatment of this disease. The causes of the paroxysms have been proved to be central or peripheral neuroses, which may be excited by a great variety of irritants, internal or ex- ternal, physical or mental. As MacDonald1 puts it, “ the sneezing, lach- rymation, rhinorrhoea, and swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies are but physiological symptoms produced in individuals whose nerve-termi- nations or nerve-centres, from pathological or other reasons, are of a peculiarly sensitive nature.” The predisposing cause being a functional derangement of the nerve-centres (J. W. Mackenzie), the local phe- nomena may be produced by any irritant acting either on the nasal mucous membrane or on the central or peripheral nervous system. The most common local irritants are the pollen of grasses, of the ragweed, and of roses; almost any form of dust will bring on paroxysms in very sensitive subjects. As I have elsewhere shown,2 such purely mental 1 Diseases of the Nose, 2d edition, p. 219. 2 Paper read in the Section of Laryngology, American Medical Association, 1892.