LYMPHANGEITIS. OY.J rette, of the fistulous openings together with the related glands, is the best practice, although injections with iodoform have proved successful, violaceous cicatrices being left at the site of the nodules; but relapses not uncommonly occur, or new foci develop at other points along the lymph-vessels. Probably the injection of proper doses of Vaughn’s “ nuclein”1 and the internal use of iodine would prove useful suc- cedanea. Venereal Lymphangeitis.—This may be simple or specific. Simple venereal lymphangeitis may result from any source ad- mitting of infection by pyogenic germs of either a chancre or chancroid, although very rare in the former. There is also apparently a gonor- rhoeal form, from the gonococcus, although this has not yet been dem- onstrated by bacteriological examination; but whether caused by the gonococcus or, more probably, by the ordinary pyogenic germs, at times a varicose condition remains, leaving the skin rugous, mammil- lated and roughened like that of an orange, presenting scattered vesi- cles. If the lymphatic trunks have been involved they are tortuous and beaded, the enlargements being translucent; lymphatic fistulse may even result. Specific venereal lymphangeitis is a very rare complication, and sel- dom ends in suppuration. It starts ordinarily about the eighth day, showing itself probably by red, ribbon-like streaks upon the dorsum of the penis, with a twisted, knotty, and hard linear median induration; oedema of the prepuce and phimosis follow. Should suppuration occur, several small rounded masses form, which once opened leave fistulous tracks and persistent ulceration, the discharge being inoculable pus identical with that from a chancroid. Treatment: This at first is similar to that of the simple variety; afterward that proper for chancroid. Tertiary Syphilitic Lymphangeitis.—This occurs in two forms, of which the first occurs late, from three to thirty years after infection, and is often located on the genitals near the original seat of the primary lesion; or, again, these cords may connect many gummatous lymph- glands. The cords are hard, rounded, or flattened and slightly irregu- lar, but almost cylindrical. They may sometimes he united into bun- dles by surrounding induration, rendering their isolation impossible. Interference with the genital function may ensue from their contraction, producing lateral curvature of the penis. The second variety is a gummatous lymphangeitis of the skin, as in a case of M. Lailler’s, presenting a series of projecting, elastic, flat- tened projections, with their longer diameter corresponding to the long axis of the member and connected together by an indurated cord or hand.2 The treatment resolves itself into that of the tertiary period of syphilis. Treatment of Adenitis.—If this affection be the result either of the direct transmission from the infected area of microbes, or theoreti- cally—as in simple contusions—from the absorption of the retrograde products of tissue metamorphosis which so lower the vitality of the gland-tissues that localization of microbes elsewhere gaining access to 1 The Germicidal Action of Nuclein, by F. C. Vaughn, M.D., F. G. Novy, M.D., and C. T MeClintock, M.D., Medical News, May 20, 1893. ‘1 Duplay et Iieclus, Traite de Chirurgie, tome i., p. 675.