INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, ETC. 746 ered with epidermis on both sides. The object of this was to prevent the drying up of the flap when in position and exposed to the double air current, nasal and oral. This method, which was successful in the case reported, can only be employed where a labial cleft coexists with a cleft of the palate. Affections of the Pharynx. Wounds of the Pharynx.—These are usually self-inflicted. They may, however, be the result of accident, or may be produced in surgical operations. When suicidal, homicidal, or accidental, their gravity may be greatly increased by the involvement of adjacent structures. In sim- ple wounds of the part hemorrhage is usually slight and readily con- trolled. Emphysema of the neck may follow a wound of the pharynx, as may also aphonia from the contiguity of the larynx. A question of interest relates to the use of sutures in closing the pharyngeal wound : formerly it was the practice to close the wound of the pharynx and that through the overlying tissues separately, hut experience has shown that the introduction of sutures in the pharyngeal wound is apt to lead to inflammation and sloughing, and that the reparative process follows more quickly in such wounds when not closed by stitches. The wound in the superficial tissues may be sutured, space being left for drainage by tube or gauze. For a few days liquids and foods may pass through the wound, but this may be partially overcome by attention to the position of the patient’s head, which should be inclined to the side opposite the wound. If it be found necessaiy, alimentation may he conducted by the rectum and afterward the stomach-tube may be employed. Fistulie sometimes follow pharyngeal wounds and become sources of great annoyance and discomfort. The use of the galvano- cautery, or of nitrate of silver applied by means of the porte-caustique, may be of service in causing their obliteration. Tonsillitis.-—Two forms of acute inflammation of the tonsils are recognized—the follicular and the parenchymatous. The former in- volves the lining membrane of the follicles, which branch out into the substance of the gland and the adenoid capsules which surround them. In the parenchymatous variety the entire gland is involved. The rheumatic and gouty diathesis has been assigned as a cause of tonsil- litis, as has sexual excitement. The high temperature, with the great prostration which attends the severe forms of inflammation of the ton- sils, has led to the opinion that the disease is of septic origin. The late Professor Agnew attributed great importance to the use of guaiacum as a remedy in the parenchymatous form. Three or four grains may be given every two or three hours in the form of a lozenge, which is allowed to dissolve in the mouth, its action being supplemented by the local application of the ammoniated tincture of guaiac to the sur- face of the tonsils. Pharyngitis.—A form of pharyngitis characterized by a dry, red, and glazed condition of the mucous membrane sometimes exists in per- sons of advanced life who have suffered from repeated attacks of