742 ' INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS,. AND LIPS. Aii estimate of the character of the incisions to be made is obtained by observing the manner in which the upper lip is deficient in length on one side. I have often satisfactorily lengthened the lip and nar- rowed the flattened nostril by an incision along the groove between the wing of the nose and the cheek, with a transverse incision outward from the cut made in denuding the edge of the congeni- tal gap. This makes a curved flap to be displaced downward, lengthening the lip, and frees the ala of the nose so that it can be brought nearer the septum either with or without sutures. The incisions which pare off the edges of the cleft should change their direction before they reach the border of the lip, and turn inward so as to leave a tongue of tissue covered by mucous mem- brane ; these tongues assist in lengthening the lip, and also prevent the notch in its margin which is often seen when the wound has healed. (Fig. 1714.) It is important that the denudation of the edges should include enough tissue to reach a place where the edges attain the full thick- ness of the lip. Inexperienced operators sometimes cut away too little, and have only thin edges to bring together with the sutures. Instead of sacrificing tissue by paring away the edges of the cleft in order to get freshened surfaces of contact, the operator may split the margins of the gap where mucous membrane and skin come together, parallel to the plane of the lip. This is similar to the flap-splitting operation employed in repairing old lacerations of the perineum. The mucous are more voluminous than the cutaneous flaps, and may, as suggested by Fenger,1 be first brought together across the gap by sutures tied within the mouth. The muscles and skin are subsequently unit- ed by other sutures tied on the outside, and the outer wound is thus shut off from the micro-organisms of the mouth. In this operation the harelip-pin suture is abandoned, and silk, silkworm gut, or wire is used. I myself have abandoned the pin suture in harelip operations, whatever form of incision is adopted. An aseptic wound, with silk su- tures and a collodion dressing, gives great satisfaction. If pins are used they should be removed in two or three days, as their longer retention is liable to cause undesirable scarring. 1 Journal American Medical Association, August 1, 1891, p. 176. Fig. 1714. Method of Lengthening Short Side of Cleft in Harelip and Decreasing Flattening of Nose by Incisions, One Extending Outwards Along Mu- co-cutaneous Junction and One Around Ala of Nose. Fig. 1713. Central Fissure of Lip With Deficiency of Intermaxillary Bones. Howse’s Case. (Bryant.)