DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 654 In a case now under my care, there is total loss of both motor and sen- sory power from below the line of the tumor in the lumbar region, and the trophic changes are so great that large bedsores almost constantly form beneath the buttocks and on the posterior parts of the thighs. When the serous accumulation is contained in the dilated central cavity of the cord, the condition is known as syringo-myelia (V'Vp'f, a tube, andmarrow), liydromyelia, or hydrorachis interior, a con- dition which is followed by a peculiar train of symptoms, recently closely studied and well described by Sinkler,1 Lloyd,2 and others. In only a few cases has the condition been diagnosed during life. Lloyd 3 has recently shown that injury of the cervical cord may produce simi- lar symptoms in certain cases. The principal symptoms are loss of power, muscular atrophy espe- cially in the upper extremities, and loss of thermal sense together with great alterations in both tactile and pain sensation. When there is ex- treme loss of sensibility in the arms and marked trophic changes, the condition is known as Morvan’s disease. Symptoms and Diagnosis of Spina Bifida.—The skin covering the tumor is at birth frequently in an unhealthy state of ulceration, but has a tendency to heal if friction is avoided. In well-formed cases there is no difficulty in diagnosis, but in cases where the communica- tion with the canal has been severed, the differentiation from congeni- tal c}rstic and other tumors will often be difficult. In several instances I have noted marked dimples and depressions over the sacrum, which were apparently the result of an incomplete but cured spinal defect. The depression so frequently found upon the tumor of spina bifida indi- cates either the point of attachment of the membranes or that of termi- nation of the spinal cord. Tumors containing foetal remains are sometimes found in a central dorsal position. Perforative ulcer is not infrequently associated with anaesthesia and paralysis. Treatment of Spina Bifida.—As a protective measure I have found a wide pad of close-fitting leather most effective. An asbestos cloth which can he purified by fire when soiled with urine, lined with linen, is also advantageous. Gutta-percha and celluloid have also been used. Paracentesis. — When tapping is performed the needle should be very small, and should enter the sac by a long route through healthy skin so as to prevent subsequent leakage and consequent infection. The utmost care must be exercised as to scrupulous cleanliness and asepsis. The puncture should be closed at once by iodoform collodion. Haley 4 holds that the continual leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid results in pro- found anaemia. Injections.—-Iodine injections are still in favor. The success of any form of treatment, whether injection, ligature, or excision, will depend largely upon the degree of communication which exists between the sac and the spinal cord, and secondly upon the elements contained in the sac. In pedunculated tumors, and in those of narrow base, an operation is much more hopeful than in sessile growths with large bony openings. ! International Clinics, Philadelphia, vol. iii.. third series. 2 Univ. Med. Magazine, 1892-3, vol. v., p. 393. 3 Ibid., 1894. 4 Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., July, 1893.