44 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. that after rain the atmosphere contains fewer micro-organisms than before it, clue in part to precipitation of the floating matter to the earth. The spray acts in a similar manner. It carries along the im- purities in the air and deposits them upon the wounds, and it thereby apparently adds an element of danger to the method. In one way, however, it proves efficient. It keeps the wound surfaces covered by a thin layer of antiseptic fluid, which is in reality the equivalent of continuous irrigation. That the real value of the spray was due to this factor, was recognized by those who advocated its discontinuance, and it was by their efforts that it was gradually superseded by frequent irrigation of wounds, as a part of the antiseptic s}-stem. As we have said, the results following this change were in no wise altered for the worse. It stood to reason that thorough irrigation, occasionally re- sorted to during the progress of an operation, would be more effective in removing particles that had settled on wound surfaces and were but loosely attached to them, than the spra}7. During the last few years a great deal of time and labor has been spent in determining the nature and the number of germs suspended in the atmosphere. A given quantity of air has either been passed through a long tube coated with some culture medium upon which the germs are deposited during its passage, or such culture media have been liquefied, and the air has been forced through them in appropriate ves- sels, where, after solidification of the media, the germs develop as individual foci, and can easily be counted. More recently still, air has been filtered through sand, which is then mixed with the medium with a similar object in view. With the assistance of these methods it has been shown that the number of suspended germs varies greatly with the locality in which the experiments are made, with the disturbed or quiet condition of the atmosphere, and with the amount of moisture de- posited on the surrounding objects. I have already referred, in proof of this assertion, to the fact that after rain has fallen the atmosphere con- tains fewer particles in suspension than before. Petri, who examined the sewer-gas of Berlin at several points of the subterraneous canal, found scarcely any micro-organisms in the air. It can, furthermore, be easily demonstrated that samples of air taken from one and the same room contain more germs after the dust on the floor and the walls has been stirred up, and that these additional germs again settle down very rapidly in a few hours, if allowed to do so. Lastly, if really a practical demonstration of such a fact is necessary, it has been experimentally shown that moistening floors very materially interferes with the raising of dust-particles, and consequently of germs, into the atmosphere, and that even the strongest currents of air passing over liquids which teem with unknown numbers of micro-organisms, are unable to carry away in suspension any of the latter. All these data have been turned to advantage in the development of the aseptic system, and I shall refer to them again. They show the varying numbers of germs. But it is of even greater importance to ascertain their nature. In this respect it is very gratifying to the surgeon to know that very few pathogenic germs have been discovered in the air. Fungi and non-pathogenic bacteria are the varieties generally found in suspension. It is true that in the air of hospital wards the number of the former is somewhat increased, and it would not be wise, therefore, to disregard entirely