ABDOMINAL OVARIOTOMY. 1003 After this cleansing she must touch nothing which has not been rendered aseptic. If she is obliged to touch anything which has not been sterilized she must wash her hands again. She must never touch instruments, sponges, or ligatures unless directed by the surgeon. She must never pick up anything which drops on the floor. She must never allow a sponge or a gauze pad to be taken out of the operating room until the sponges and pads have been counted and the abdomen closed. For this reason discarded sponges and pads must be placed where they can be seen and counted; never thrown in the slop bucket. The following instruments are necessary for the operation of coeli- otomy for the removal of ovarian or uterine tumors:— Haemostatic forceps from 6 to 12, knife, scissors, pedicle-needles, trocar, cyst forceps, sponges or gauze pads, retractors, needles. Gauze pads made of convenient sizes are much preferable to sponges; the pads consist of 12 or 16 layers of gauze, lightly sewed together. They are cheap, and may be discarded after each operation. They can be per- fectly sterilized by steam, and for this reason are safer than sponges. The carbolic spray is no longer used in coeliotomy nor in any other branch of surgery. Solutions of bichloride of mercury should not be used on account of the absorbing power of the peritoneum. Some sur- geons still use solutions of boric acid or salicylic acid. The best re- sults may be obtained by using simple boiled or distilled water for wash- ing sponges or pads, hands, and instruments, and for washing out the peritoneal cavity. On theoretical grounds some surgeons use a normal salt solution, a 0.6-per-cent solution of common salt, for washing the peritoneal cavity, believing that such a solution is less irritating to serous membranes than distilled water. The results obtained, however, are no better than those obtained with the latter agent. Silk is the best material for ligature of the pedicle, and silkworm gut is a desirable suture for the abdominal wall. To guard against the occurrence of ventral hernia, the abdominal fascia should be sutured with a continuous, or an interrupted, silk or catgut suture. The dressing is very simple, consisting of layers of dry sterilized gauze, covered with a pad of cotton, and retained with some form of abdominal binder. The dressings and gauze pads are best sterilized by steam, and the instruments by boiling in a solution of carbonate of sodium. In the University Hospital the hands of surgeons, assistants, and nurses are sterilized by thorough scrubbing, first with hot water and soap; then with alcohol; and thirdly, with a 1-1000 solution of bi- chloride of mercury. Drainage of Peritoneum.—-The subject of drainage after coeliotomy is a very important one. All surgeons cannot have the same views on this subject, because the personal equation of the operator is an impor- tant element in the determination of the necessity of drainage in any given case. Neatness, asepsis, rapidity of operation, degree of traumat- ism inflicted on the abdominal structures, all depend upon the operator, and all are important in a consideration of the necessity for drainage. The old advice, “when in doubt drain,” is good if we are confident that the drainage-tube will be properly watched after the operation. The drainage-tube removes excessive blood from the peritoneum, acts as a