622 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. have operated in two cases. In the first, following trauma, the patient recovered entirely and was able to resume his occupation; but in the second case the operation failed entirely. From later developments I am inclined to believe the latter patient to have been neurasthenic. Nothing was done in any of these cases except simple trephining, which is better than using the chisel. The result apparently is due to a change in, or relief of, the intracranial pressure. At least, that is the only rational explanation which occurs to me in connection with the procedure. Hoffmann 1 has reported three cases of excessively severe headache, complicated, however, with other symptoms, such as paresis of various muscles, and in one case difficulty of speech; apoplexy with loss of con- sciousness for four days, severe headache, tottering gait, and suicidal impulses, in the second; and in the third, severe headache, vomiting, slow pulse, epilepsy, and hemiplegia. In the first two cases there was evidence of former ear disease on the same side. In all of them Hoffmann trephined the mastoid, exposed the lateral sinus, and opened it. Nothing was found except sclerosed hone and thickened dura, and very dark blood in the sinus. Recovery followed in all. It is evident of course that more than mere headache was-present in these cases; but as they are obscure in their origin, and as the headache was the most prominent disabling symptom in all three, they find their place here better than elsewhere. The relief of the intense headache from tumor of the brain by trephin- ing has already been alluded to. Trephining for Athetosis. This is a disease of the nervous system, characterized by irregular tremors or movements of the arms and legs; or sometimes, as in a case at present under my care, limited to a single member, as the arm. It is very often a result of the cerebral palsy of children, and is sometimes accompanied by epilepsy, and occasionally by contractures. In other respects the patient may be in good health and mentally sound. The advisability of operating in these cases is as yet doubtful. Mr. Horsley 2 regards athetosis as a form of cortical discharge, and has re- ported one case in which he operated without benefit. The patient’s movements began as a rule in the thumb, and hence he removed the thumb centre. In a fortnight, as the surrounding cortex resumed its activity, the spasms returned. He urges the removal of the entire area innervating the part involved (if, I suppose, the disease be limited to a single extremity; he would scarcely propose to remove both an arm and leg centre, producing an entire hemiplegia). Oppenheim3 records another somewhat more hopeful case, in a child of 12 who had had the cerebral palsy of childhood, and epilepsy beginning at 4 years of age. -This was followed by right hemiplegia and contracture, the athetosis setting in subsequently. At the operation a cyst was found, and the final result was that the athetosis and contracture were both improved, while the epilepsy, although continuing, was less frequent 1 Oentralbl. f. Chir., 1889. No. 29. 2 Brit. Med. Journal, 1890, vol. ii., p. 1291. :i Deutsch. med. Wochensclir., 3 Jnli, 1890, S. 595.