SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 143 sis, that they are predisposed to tuberculosis. To this class belongs that large number in which we find a certain vulnerability of tissue with accompanying enlargement of lymph glands; in which the least irri- tant will produce an inflammation characterized by chronicity and lack of tendency to restitutio ad integrum. While the uncertainty of the nature of the process in this number must be continually reduced with increased research as to etiology, there will, of necessity, be left a cer- tain portion in which the cause must he sought for within the individ- ual. Here again, we shall find a local as well as a general predisposi- tion ; enlarged lymphatics predispose to those processes called scrofulous, impeded lymph-circulation will render tissues more vulnerable, it mat- ters not whether enlarged lymphatics are produced by local or general causes; a tubercular gland will therefore be a cause for so-called scrofula. A step farther will bring us to the conclusion that glands enlarged as a result of any cause, as simple as the presence of pediculi capitis, may act in the same manner. On the other hand, any general cause producing enlarged lymphatics will be followed by the same effects; tuberculosis, syphilis, the acute exanthemata, notably measles. If, then, we were to define scrofula as tuberculosis, we should be overshooting the mark, as in many cases we have no evidence that such is the case, or that there ever will be tuberculosis. But, on the other hand, if this is not ac- cepted, there remains no definition except that of a predisposition to many things, including tuberculosis. A careful view of the history of scrofula will show that many things were formerly accepted as scrofula which, with the advance of science, have been proven to be due to other causes. Where formerly whole books (Lugol, Scharlau, Hufeland, Glover, Kortum, and others) were written upon scrofula, the subject can at the present time be satisfactorily dealt with in a chapter. The ques- tion naturally arises, Are we justified in making a diagnosis of a pre- disposition? Can such a diagnosis be put upon a scientific basis? It cer- tainly seems as if both questions should be answered in the negative. The diagnosis is not even one that is necessary; it is an obstacle to searching for the true cause of the condition; it therefore prevents in- vestigation and does the patient harm in that it is in the way of causal therapy. For the present, it is suggested that scrofula be dropped from our nosological table, to lie reinstated when we can come to some defi- nite knowledge regarding its entity. In this connection, as well as in regard to the whole subject of tuber- culosis, it is of paramount importance to decide whether tuberculosis is constituted by the presence of the bacillus, or by the production of lesions by the bacillus, or by both together. It is a self-evident propo- sition that bacilli may be found without tuberculosis. It is not so easy to decide whether lesions may be found, tubercular in nature, in which the bacillus or even its spores may have disappeared, or may not be proven to be present by inoculation or culture. The prebacillary patho- logical definition of tuberculosis is no longer accepted, but it seems neces- sai*y to make a new definition which will include all those changes that may be due to the bacillus tuberculosis. For scrofula it has been pretty accurately determined that all the lesions, with the exception of those of the skin and mucous membranes, are usually due to tuberculosis. Some experimenters, however, have failed to produce tuberculosis by inoculating with scrofulous glands, and, as yet, it is too early to decide