INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 756 lessly prolongs the operation and enhances its difficulties. By an inch sion extending from above the uppermost to a point below the lower- most gland, the entire anterior surface of the chain should be freely ex- posed before any attempt to remove a gland is made. With a small four-pronged hook the uppermost gland is then drawn into the wound, the air penetrates the loose connective tissue behind it, and with a little traction on the hook, and here and there the division of a few fibres with the scissors, it is lifted from its bed. If possible, the con- nection of the gland with that below it should not be divided. Trac- tion on this interglandular tissue exposes the next gland, which in turn is seized with the sharp hook and drawn forward, and thus the way is prepared for seizure of the next gland underneath. In this manner, by an incision made from mastoid process to clavicle, I have within three years, in eleven operations, removed the entire chain of deep- seated lymphatics from one or both sides in a surprisingly short time without either death or serious complication. The hemorrhage while the glands are movable is not profuse, and is easily controlled by pres- sure forceps or by ligature. In one of my cases the internal jugular vein was wounded. In 128 cases reported from Billroth’s clinic by Frankel the jugular had to be tied in 16. A danger not to be overlooked in the operation on the parotid lym- phatics, is the division of the facial nerve. This followed an operation by one of my assistants at the Cincinnati Hospital. The patient was a mulatto child of six, from whom I had removed the entire chain from the right side of the neck at a previous operation. The paralysis while complete was of comparatively short duration. Frankel observed facial paresis after 18 operations, but in only 6 was it permanent. In 104 cases operated on in Lucke's clinic paralysis ensued in four. In two of these it soon disappeared, but in two it continued three years subsequently.1 The difficulties and the perils of the operation are increased, not so much with the number of glands involved, as with the extent of the periglandular infiltration. When suppuration has taken place in and about many of the glands, the operation may become, from adhesion to important veins and nerve trunks, quite formidable. Indeed, at times it may be wiser to leave part of a suppurating gland than to incur the risks of complete extirpation. After thorough curetting it may be safely left to granulate under an iodoform gauze tampon, while the remainder of the wound is closed by sutures in the usual way. In my judgment no part of a caseating tubercular gland ought ever to be buried in a closed wound. To do so would expose the patient to all the dangers of auto-infection of contiguous tissues which were incident to the older methods of removing the caseous foci with a curette, leav- ing apparently healthy gland tissue and capsule as infallible sources of re-infection. When cervical adeno-tuberculosis is associated with tuberculosis else- where, an operation is contra-indicated, as it is also in the acute forms of the disease in which high temperature and rapid extension downward indicate a malignant type. Nor should an operation be counselled in the very young. Fortunately, according to the observations of Sclmell,2-Haehl,3 Kish, Lebert, and others, the majority of cases are 1 Haehl, Zeitschr. f. Chir., Bd. xxxv., S. 392. 2 Erfolge von Extirpation tuberculoser Lymphoma. Bonn, 1885. 3 Loc. cit.