WOUND-TREATMENT. 73 erotic, should always be undertaken in dealing with infected wounds. Some surgeons favor active interference, whereas others prefer to thor- oughly expose such cavities, to insure free and permanent drainage, and to trust to the vital action of the neighboring tissues in overcom- ing the sources of infection still present. We must support this vital action, and not lessen it. I have already alluded to the fact that strong antiseptic fluids impair the vitality of the superficial layers of cells, when poured upon wounds. If this is the case in aseptic wounds, it is even more likely to ■ occur in infected wounds, where the cells possess less vitality. If we consider irrigation necessary for the me- chanical removal of secretions, we will, therefore, do better to employ in this instance also an aseptic fluid, preferably a sterilized salt solution. The dressing of an infected wound should also favor free drainage. It is a better plan to pack such wounds with gauze than to rely on the action of drainage-tubes. The latter will occasionally be indispensable, when free exposure of wounds is impossible for other reasons, such as their depth and their situation near vital parts. But. whenever possi- ble, such wounds should be laid and kept well open. This course has many advantages. It encourages evaporation of the secretions in the dressings, and about the wound-surfaces, inhibiting thereby the growth of micro-organisms. It further facilitates the entrance of air, and especially of oxygen, to wounds, which, we know from recent in- vestigations, has a marked influence in retarding or suspending the development of most infectious germs, that have become anaerobes within the tissue of the body. Very likely the favorable action of per- oxide of hydrogen on suppurating surfaces is due to the same cause. Moist dressings are often of value in the treatment of infected wounds. When the discharges are viscid and ropy, they will not be readily absorbed by dry dressings. They will, moreover, evaporate, and thus give rise to the formation of scabs and crusts, under which stagnation of the secretions and a lively development of micro-organ- isms may go on. If, in addition to this, much infiltration of the wound- surfaces is present, moist dressings, frequently changed, answer an excellent purpose. They may act antiseptically to a certain extent, but their main purpose is to prevent exsiccation, and to keep the parts moist and warm. When infiltration and inflammation have subsided, and healthy granulation is beginning, the wound itself may be dressed with iodoform gauze over which a dry aseptic dressing is applied. The iodoform will stimulate granulation and lessen secretion. As the wound-cavity begins to fill up, special indications may arise for the treatment of the granulations. They may require stimulation, if slug- gish—or cauterization, if exuberant—until finally the edges of the wound can unite over them, or the intervening gap can be closed by skin-grafting. If irrigation with antiseptic fluids is at all indicated in modern wound-treatment, it is in the cleansing of fresh wounds proper, which have been contaminated with gross impurities. The conditions are different here from those which exist in wounds of which infection has taken a firm hold. No growth of germs, no infiltration of the walls of such wound-cavities with the latter, has yet occurred. There is a better chance of bringing the antiseptics into direct contact with the causes of infection and of preventing their further development in