STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 953 cal. 28 to 30; 3^- in., 30 to 32; 3f in., 32 to 34; and 4 in., 34 to 36, “beyond which size,” he says “it is seldom necessary to go.” In practice it will he found that there are cases in which the calibre of the urethra does not exactly correspond to either of these scales, the one being too large and the other too small. Again, there are occasional instances in which the urethra is abnormally small, its calibre in the healthy state being far below the average standard. Such discrepan- cies will be appreciated and allowed for by the experienced surgeon. In spite of these possible variations, however, it is most convenient and necessary to have a standard to guide us in ascertaining the capacity of the urethra. Exploration of the canal should in every case be preceded by a meas- urement of the penis at a point about one inch posterior to the glans, and from the result of this measurement we may know what sized instrument the urethra, if free from stricture, will accommodate. If, as is often the case, the meatus be too small to admit an explorer of the proper size, it should be enlarged by careful division with a probe- pointed tenotome, cutting toward the floor. The urethrometer may be inserted without division of the meatus in nearly all cases, a distinct advantage in favor of this instrument as compared with either form of bulbous explorer. The Urethroscope in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Stric- ture.—The urethroscope may occasionally prove of some use in the diagnosis of stricture. Strictures of large calibre are easily recognized as areas in which the mucous membrane is infiltrated or thickened, and paler in color than normal. On slowly withdrawing the urethroscopic tube, it will be observed that the mucous membrane at the affected spot folds in unevenly at the end of the tube, slowly at first, and then with a sudden start or jerk. The lumen of the canal at the infiltrated spot is more or less distorted. In the confirmed indurated stricture, the urethroscope reveals one or more spots of marked thickening, whitish or yellowish in color, and the urethral funnel or cone is irregu- lar or absent. The peculiar flop with which these strictures fall in at the end of the receding tube is striking and easily remembered. In strictures of small calibre the urethroscope may be of service in dis- covering the lumen of the canal, which is often, in such cases, eccentric. When efforts to pass a small instrument through such a stricture have failed, it may be that search with the urethroscope will show where the orifice is, and so, with the aid of sight, an instrument may be success- fully inserted. In cases, too, in which a false passage has been made, and where difficulty is encountered in the use of instruments in conse- quence of their becoming engaged in the accidental opening, illumina- tion and visual inspection may, again, succeed in discovering the narrowed lumen of the canal. Internal Urethrotomy. — Under this heading should be mentioned, in addition to the instruments named by Duplay for the performance of the operation, the dilating urethrotome of Dr. P. N. Otis. (Fig. 1758.) This convenient and accurate instrument is capable of dilating the stricture at the same time that it is cut, keeping it therefore tense, and insuring its thorough division. The instrument is composed of a pair