ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 552 Wrist Drop.—Shortening the tendons by open incision, splitting and stitching them, is desirable and safe under perfect asepsis. In se- vere flexion of the hand following paralysis, lengthening the tendons by open incision, splitting and resuturing, is sometimes advisable to give better mechanical position to the hand. Massage, electricity, and elon- gation of the muscles is often helpful in restoring the hand to useful- ness. Division of the contracted muscles by open incision directly through the fibres below the internal condyle has been practised, the arteries, veins, and nerves being carefully avoided. The hand is then dressed in the extended position and the gap becomes filled with fibrous tissue. Club Hand.-—Club hand is usually associated with other deformities, but is rarely double. The palmo-ulnar variety is the most common. When the deformity is moderate, it may be corrected by persistent manipulation, together with the employment of gypsum splints or me- chanical devices. Tenotomy is seldom advisable, but open incision with splitting and splicing of shortened tendons, and shortening of the elon- gated ones, is advisable in serious cases when all other means have failed. Amputation should not be performed, as even a distorted hand is partially useful. Supernumerary or Deficient Fingers.—Supernumerary fingers, or polydactylism, is a condition that shows a remarkable hereditary tend- ency. The deformity is frequently double, and is often associated with a similar condition of the toes. Treatment.—As operative interference is usually desired for cosmetic purposes, it should be instituted early. In boys, the utility of the part should be first considered. Iso absolute rules can be laid down, as the surgeon must be guided by the location, articulation, and degree of perfectness of each member, those of least value being sacrificed. Any remaining projecting portions of the metacarpal heads may be chiselled away. In one remarkable instance the amputated finger is said to have been reproduced twice.1 When there is a deficiency of fingers, plastic surgery will sometimes benefit the appearance of the hand; but amputation is not advisable, as even two misshapen fingers are very useful. In a case at present under my care, five last phalanges with perfect nails are joined, but not articulated, to the carpus. Deformities of the toes need not be operated upon except when they give inconvenience or pain. Hypertrophy of fingers or toes occasionally occurs, and is irremedia- ble except by amputation. The whole nutrition of the fingers is in- creased,2 but it does not appear to be a condition of acromegaly. Webbed Fingers, or Syndactylism.-—Two or more of the fingers, or of the toes, may be joined at their bases or tips, or throughout their en- tire extent. Usually the bond consists only of skin and connective tissue, but in rare instances the bony phalanges are connected. Treatment.—The difficulty in cure after division of the web arises 1 C. White : On the Regeneration of Animal Substances. 2 Journal of Mental and Nervous Disease, vol. xviii., 1893, p. 442.