389 OPERATIONS PRACTISED UPON NERVES. of the jaw to the last molar tooth (Rose). Pulling the tongue forcibly to the opposite side will make the nerve tense; it is then picked up with a strabismus hook and a portion excised. To excise the inferior maxillary nerve by the Liicke-Sonnenburg method, the incision begins about one inch above the angle of the jaw, and is carried along the posterior edge of the maxilla to the angle, and along the lower border of the ramus to its middle; the fascia covering the parotid is then incised, the lower part of the gland raised up, and the internal pterygoid muscle raised from the maxilla. After locating the spine, into which is inserted the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, the nerve can readily be reached, for it lies below that ligament and the bone. When it is desired to divide the nerve at the foramen ovale, through the ramus of the jaw, various methods may be employed. Pancoast first performed this operation; and various methods have since been proposed by Salzer, Kronlein, Mikulicz and others. The method devised by Horsley, and preferred by Mr. Rose, of London, con- sists in deepening the sigmoid notch, and is thus described by the latter surgeon:— Commencing about the middle of the zygoma, the knife is carried backward and downward over the parotid region to the angle of the jaw, and then for a short distance along the horizontal ramus. A semilunar flap, consisting of skin and subcutaneous tissue only, should be raised and turned forward, and for con- venience temporarily stitched across the opposite side and carefully protected. This flap must be so dissected as not to injure any of the branches of the facial nerve. By this means are exposed the masseteric fascia, the branches of the facial nerve, Stenson’s duct, and a portion of the parotid gland. The deep fascia and masseter muscle are then divided by a transverse incision below and parallel to Stenson’s duct, cutting directly down to the bone about a centimetre below the sigmoid notch. Great care must be taken not to wound any of the lobules of the parotid while so doing, for although the main duct may not be divided a salivary fistula may ensue, leading to interference with the healing of the wound. The outer surface of the jaw is next denuded of periosteum by means of raspa- tories, and the soft parts held aside by suitable retractors to allow of the applica- tion of a trephine, the diameter of which should be not less than f inch. It should be so applied as to leave between it and the sigmoid notch a narrow bridge of bone which can be subsequently clipped away by cutting pliers, and a sufficient amount of bone in front and behind to preserve the continuity of the jaw with the articular and coronoid processes. At this stage, the inferior dental artery may be cut through by the trephine and give rise to troublesome hemorrhage. The disc of bone having been lifted out and the bridge of bone between the condyle and coronoid process clipped through with bone pliers, so as to increase the space in which to work, some loose fatty tissue presents itself, and should be carefully picked away with two pairs of dissecting forceps. The tendon of the temporal muscle is thus more clearly defined, and must be held forward if necessary. Nar- row spatulae are useful at this stage, not only to keep the wound open, but also by their pressure to arrest hemorrhage from divided muscular branches. The inferior dental artery, if still intact, is usually first seen, and may be secured by passing two ligatures around it with an aneurism needle, and dividing it between. The lowest fibres of the external pterygoid muscle are seen running transversely across the wound, and require to be held upward or carefully divided to demon- strate the two nerves passing from behind. The trunk of the inferior dental nerve can then be raised upon an aneurism needle and the lingual found a little internally and in front; indeed it occasionally happens that the nerves lie in such close proximity to one another that they are picked up together. A silk or catgut ligature may be advantageously passed