SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 580 large area. As a rule the dura should be opened. The added danger is slight and the additional information may be very great. The open- ing in the dura should correspond to that in the skull, its margin being about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the opening in the bone. Care should be taken not to wound the large veins immediately be- neath the dura, for the sudden loss of a large quantity of blood from the brain induces severe shock and may even produce speedy death. These veins may best be avoided by lifting the dura by rat-tooth forceps while making the first incision with the knife, and then using blunt- pointed scissors. If we have to deal with a tumor which has pro- duced great intracranial pressure, it is often best to make one or more very small incisions in the dura first, and then to enlarge them or not, according to circumstances. Hemorrhage from branches of the middle meningeal artery is best arrested either by luemostatic forceps, by direct ligature at the point of section, or, usually to greater advantage, by pass- ing a ligature through the dura and under the vessels by means of the finest Hagedorn semicircular needle. One of the most troublesome problems in cerebral surgery is hemorrhage from the large vessels in the brain itself. Some of the larger arteries may be directly tied, and this is the best way of arresting the bleeding. The veins* however, are Fig. 1682. extremely fragile and difficult to secure. Not uncommonly it may be necessary, for either arterial or venous hemorrhage, to pass a small semicircular Hagedorn needle partly through the brain sub- stance and around the bleeding point. The ligature, which should be of non-chromicized catgut, should be tied with great gentleness, care being taken to see that the traction is equal on both ends of the ligature, so as not to tear the fragile vessel. The knot should not be tied too tightly, lest it cut through. Very often hemorrhage from the brain may best be arrested by pressure, either by gauze or sponges, with or without hot water, at from 105° F. to possibly 115°. In hemorrhage from the sinuses, if the lips of the wound can be seized by haemostatic forceps, this will quickly arrest the bleeding The forceps may be left in place for from 30 to 48 hours, being entirely enclosed in the dressing to prevent infection. Pressure upon the sinuses, however, or plugging them with iodoform gauze, will usually control the hemorrhage. As the large cerebral veins approach the superior longitudinal sinus, they suddenly broaden into large bays, called the para-sinoidal spaces. These should always be avoided if possible, and if wounded they must be either plugged with iodoform gauze or secured by haemostatic for- ceps, or occasionally by ligature. After opening the dura, we should first observe whether the brain bulges, and also the amount of the bulging, which is an index to the