315- VIRULENCE OF CHANCROIDAL BUBOES. been found in the secretion and in the tissues of the chancroid, it is yet too soon to determine absolutely its relative importance as regards the question of inoculation. Virulence of Chancroidal Buboes. Within the last few years very various opinions have been expressed with regard to the question of whether the buboes which occur with the chancroid are virulent by absorption, or virulent by subsequent inocu- lation, and upon this question M. Straus, in the Annales de Derma- tologie et Syphiligraphie for 1885, published his views in full. The conclusion at which he arrives is that there are not two kinds of bubo, accompanying the soft chancre, but only one, and that this bubo is never originally virulent, but only becomes so by secondary inoculation after the bubo is opened. He instances Ricord’s experiments made from 1831 to 1837, in which out of 338 cases of bubo he obtained 271 successful inoculations. In 42 of these the pus of the bubo inoculated the day it was opened proved to be virulent. In 229 others positive results were only obtained by inoculation of the pus taken from one to several days after the opening of the bubo, and in these cases the inoculations made at the time of the opening of the bubo were negative. This view of M. Straus was vigorously combated by M. Horteloup at the “ Societe de Dermatologie,” in December, 1884, as reported in the Annales de Der- matologie et Syphiligraphie. He considered that M. Straus had been very fortunate in his clinical experience with the bubo, but at the same time thought that he was a little premature in absolutely denying the existence of the chancroidal variety, and cited evidence in favor of the existence of the chancroidal bubo, which he thought invalidated the theory of M. Straus. The case occurred in a hospital patient who entered for a bubo fol- lowing a chancroid of the frenum. This chancroid had lasted for fifteen days. At that time the patient had noticed upon the right side of the frenum a little pustule which became denuded and converted into an ulceration. Three days after having observed this ulceration a phimo- sis occurred. On the 18th of November a sharp pain was felt in the right groin, and on the next day a swelling was observed at that point. Upon the patient’s entry into hospital it was noticed that there was a complete phimosis which prevented the glans penis from being thorough- ly exposed, and that there was besides an inflammatory swelling of the foreskin, together with a tender point on a level with the frsenum and a sanio-purulent discharge. In the right inguinal region there was a tumor of large size, the skin covering which was of a purple hue and very thin. Fluctuation throughout its substance was complete, but there was no peripheric induration. The case was diagnosticated as one of chancroid of the fraenum, and in accordance with the clinical char- acteristics of the bubo itself, its sudden appearance, its rapid march, its peculiar coloration, and the thinness of the skin, this latter was con- sidered as a chancroidal bubo. Under treatment the phimosis diminished, and as soon the glans penis could be uncovered the existence of a chancroid which had destroyed a portion of the fraenum was seen. The bubo was opened on the 29th day after the patient had entered the hospital. “After having taken all