(107) GUNSHOT WOUNDS. BY P. S. CONNER, M.D., PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE MEDICAL COLLEGE OF OHIO, SURGEON TO THE CINCINNATI AND GOOD SAMARITAN HOSPITALS, ETC. Revision of any article on gunshot wounds written a dozen or more years ago becomes necessary because: (1) Of the changes that have been made in the military armament; (2) of the determination of the bacte- rial origin of each of the complicating diseases, erysipelas, septic infec- tion, and tetanus; (3) of the general adoption of antiseptic and aseptic methods of operating and dressing; and (4) of the more active and in no small measure successful treatment of lesions of the head and abdomen, now commonly employed. Bullets. To the army of each of the civilized nations there is now issued as the standard rifle a weapon of small calibre; and the powder in use is much stronger than that formerly employed. The service bullet has a diameter of about .30 of an inch, instead of .45, .50, or .55, as before, and is both relatively and actually longer; its weight, however, is much less. Made of hardened lead, it is jacketed with a thin envelope of steel, of nickel, of copper, or of an alloy of these metals with or without zinc addition. As a result it does not undergo deformation in the body, or only to a slight extent, and that chiefly in flattening of its apex. It very seldom breaks up, though occasionally the jacket has been found to split or to strip off in part or in whole, least when of steel, most when of copper. The annexed table shows the weight, size, initial velocity, etc., of the various bullets employed in modern warfare. Driven by one or other of the recently invented explosives of high grade, and rotating more frequently because of the altered rifling of the gun, this new bullet has a much greater initial velocity, its trajec- tory is flat, and its range is greatly increased. Its momentum is such that lodgment in the body will not take place except at an extreme distance, or after having passed through several other bodies. Its rotatory steadiness in the middle ranges, that is, from 500 to 1500 or 2000 yards, together with its preservation of form, causes it to pass through the tissues without damaging the parts around to anything like the same extent as did the old bullet. Up to 500 yards, or some-