WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 48 It is a vain attempt to sterilize mucous surfaces, even the vagina, which is most accessible. If this were possible, other considerations should here prevent the use of strong antiseptics, namely, their irritating qualities and the readiness with which they are absorbed. The use of warm water and soap, and of frequent irrigations with sterilized water or Thiersch's solution, are the safest and most effective methods of cleansing mucous membranes prior to operations. Great care should be taken to have the brushes, used in disinfecting hands and skin, in an aseptic condition. New brushes should he cleaned with soap and water and then boiled for a few minutes. They are then placed in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and are kept there until used. When they have been once soiled—in cleaning the hands, for example, after operations in septic cases—they should again be care- fully disinfected, which can only be accomplished by boiling them. Wooden brushes will stand repeated boiling for a few minutes, for some time. It should not be omitted, as simple disinfection with antiseptics has been experimentally proven inadequate to the removal of septic matter from between the hairs of the brush. It has been asserted that sterilization with boiling water or steam is sufficient, and that it is un- necessary to keep brushes in antiseptic solutions. In hospital practice it is certainly wise to do so. We are sure of one thing: in the solution they will remain aseptic until used. Sterilization of Instruments.—Instruments can be sterilized by im- mersion in antiseptic solutions, or by heat. The former was univer- sally adopted until it became evident that the latter possessed many advantages. The first advance upon the plan of Lister, by which instru- ments were simply placed in a trough containing a carbolic solution, 1-20, was a recognition of the fact that in this instance, also, mechani- cal cleansing was a most important part of the entire process of steril- ization. To facilitate this as much as possible, care is now taken in the manufacture of instruments to avoid all uneven surfaces, indenta- tions, and furrows. Smooth metal handles, and instruments made of one piece of metal, are now used in preference to those with wooden handles. If these are carefully brushed and washed, they are well-nigh sterilized by this procedure alone, especially when subjected to an addi- tional rubbing with ether or alcohol. If they be next placed for one minute in either a 1-20 solution of carbolic acid, or a 1-1000 solution of sublimate, they will give no cultures when thrown into culture- media. But if they have not been subjected to the mechanical proced- ures above detailed, an immersion of from at least ten to fifteen minutes in antiseptics will be necessary to attain the same end. Here I must give a caution against implicit faith in these culture-tests. Some of the antiseptic, still clinging to the surface of the object brought in contact with the media, may prevent the development of germs that have not been removed by the process of sterilization. We have seen that their value in determining absolute sterilization of the hands is also doubtful. If we can sterilize by heat, this plan is, therefore, always to be pre- ferred. It is impossible in the case of our hands, but it is really sur- prising that it should have taken so long to establish this procedure as the only rational one for the sterilization of surgical instruments, when it had long been employed for a similar purpose in bacteriological