628 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. In one case of epilepsy, with marked and growing tendency toward homicidal insanity, following a blow on the head, I operated five years ago, and removed a small portion of damaged brain tissue, containing a very small cyst, the size of a pea; ultimate recovery from the epilepsy ensued, and also entire and early recovery from the homicidal mania. A year ago the patient was entirely well.1 Macewen 2 relates a case which is not only of importance as regards the question of insanity, but is also of peculiar importance as showing how a very careful investigation of the minute symptoms of a case may lead to a brilliant diagnosis and successful treatment:— The patient was a man who, a year after the receipt of an injury, developed melancholia, with homicidal impulses, relieved, curiously enough, by excruciat- ing, indefinitely located paroxysms of pain in the head. The only symptom which pointed toward the seat of the lesion was discovered by minute and careful inquiry, as follows: For about two weeks after the injury, though his sight was not impaired, what he saw conveyed no impression to his mind (mind blindness). He could not recognize a person by the eye, but by speech could recognize him readily. Ilis New Testament was recognized readily by the sense of touch, especially its smooth leather covers and deeply indented letters; but when he opened it the words and letters were unknown symbols to him. On operation the angular gyrus was exposed, when a portion of the internal table was found detached, pressing on the posterior part of the supramarginal convolution, and a corner of it embedded in the angular gyrus. The bone was removed. Though still excitable, the patient after his recovery had no further homicidal tendency, and was at work. II. Non-Traumatic Insanity.—Czerny3 refers to a case of melan- cholia which he operated on, hut he does not give the result. The most remarkable series of cases, and in fact the only ones, I believe, in which an attempt has been made to relieve idiopathic insanity by operation on the brain, are the six reported by Burckhardt.4 These were all cases of hallucination and delirium, chiefly verbal, though to some extent of sight and hearing. Burckhardt’s idea was that if he could intercept the paths of cortical association, which in his opinion transmitted the patho- logical impressions arising in the sensorial and ideogenous portions of the brain to the motor portion, he would be able to transform these victims of violent insanity, attended with homicidal impulses, into harmless dements. Accordingly he exposed the brain and removed a strip 2 centimetres wide from the frontal and parietal cortex, in front of and behind the Rolandic convolution, or else the centres for verbal hallucination, that is, the centres for wmrd-deafness (first temporal convolution) and aphasia (triangular portion of Broca's convolution). His first case was tyTpical of the others and the most remarkable of all. The patient had been insane for 16 years, with explosive outbreaks of a dangerous character both to herself and to others, so that she was necessarily put under restraint. She was exceedingly noisy, uncleanly in her habits, and so violent as to require constantly the attention of several nurses. At his first operation, December 29, 1888, he removed a 2-centimetre 1 Trans. N. Y. State Med. Assoc., vol. vii., 1890, p. 93. 2 Brit. Med. Journal, Aug., 1888, p. 172. 3 Verhand. Deutsch. Gesellscli. f. Cliir., 1892. 4 Allgem. Zeit. f. Psychiat, u. s. w., 1891, S. 463.