DISEASES OF BONES. 448 VII. Rheumatic Osteitis.—Rheumatic disease of the bones is peculiar in its cause rather than in its effects. The disorder is usually- propagated from the joint-structures to the bones themselves, and re- sults in the development of a simple osteitis, with congestion, swelling, heat, and pain upon pressure. In this osteitis there is no formation of pus or of sequestra. The subject of rheumatic osteitis has been well studied by Adams in England and by Cadiat in France. Adams believes that rheumatic os- teitis is consecutive to a rheumatic affection of a joint. Cadiat believes that it arises in the epiphyses and goes from these to the joints. The truth is, probably, that the first seat of the disease is sometimes in one place and sometimes in the other. Nothing in the cause of rheumatism explains its effect upon the bones, but this is equally true in regard to its effect upon the fibrous and serous tissues, in which also it produces swelling and pain, and often permanent alterations of structure. Gosselin has described three forms of rheumatic osteitis: (1) rheu- matic osteitis of the long bones without arthritis, (2) osteo-periostitis of the extremities with arthritis, (3) rheumatic osteitis of the flat bones. VIII. Hypertrophy Following General Diseases.—The occur- rence of hypertrophy following certain fevers is comparatively rare, but is seen often enough to make it deserving of study, although the process is rather a physiological curiosity than one inviting or requir- ing medical interference. C. Disorders of Physiological Processes (Diseases). Disorders of physiological processes include all disturbances of bone which are generally known as diseases proper, such as the various forms of periostitis, osteitis, and myelitis, as well as tumors. These are, according to our present views, most accurately classified, not ac- cording to their manifestations, but according to their causes. Thus periostitis is not a disease in itself, but a manifestation of disease. Of diseases of the bones we have those which are occasioned (1) by traumatism, (2) by neuroses, and (3) by infective agents (parasites), together with (4) forms of new growth generally designated as tumors. The articles of Ollier, Vincent, and Poncet, in this Encyclopaedia, have described the processes of the various manifestations of bone disease so thoroughly and so well, that it is not necessary to discuss them again. I. Osteitis due to traumatism is of quite common occurrence. All surgeons who treat large numbers of ambulatory patients must be aware of the frequency with which blows and strains are followed by enlargement and pain of the bones. They also see from time to time interesting cases of deformity caused by increased growth due to oste- itis, occurring especially in adolescents. These deformities are not un- common in conuection with fractures, and with strains transferred from the muscles at their points of insertion, in the periosteum and the underlying bone substance. Such traumatisms in the leg bones