517 DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. the thigh furnishing upon the knee. As used at the Bos- ton Children's Hospital this splint is slightly modified, as shown in Fig. 1669. It is provided with accurately fitting leather lacings for and the calf of the leg, excellent fixation, and in addition to this a bar is provided at the bottom of the splint around which a sticking- plaster extension band may he buck- led so as to make traction upon the knee in cases attended by much irri- tation. A high shoe is placed upon the other foot, and the patient is able to go about during the whole course of the disease unless this is too acute or unless the knee is flexed. If there is much flexion from mus- cular spasm the Thomas splint be- comes unwieldy, because it is difficult to fix the flexed leg by a straight ap- paratus, and because traction cannot be made in the line of the deformity, while if made otherwise it becomes painful and irritates the knee. Un- der these circumstances various plans may be adopted:— (1) The knee may he straightened while the patient is under the effect of ether by the use of more or less force, and a fixed dress- ing, as of Fig. 1669. Modified Thomas Knee-Splint. Goldthwait’s Apparatus for Forc- ibly Straightening the Knee. plaster-of-Paris, may be applied while the limb is in the straight position. This plan is only to be used in cases of moderately long stand- ing, because, of course, if anchylosis has oc- curred some more radical operation is required. (2) By a succession of plaster bandages, applied at intervals of a week or ten days to the flexed limb in its deformed position, the irritation may be quieted, and at each applica- tion the knee will be found in a straighter position, without the use of force; this method is to be pursued until the leg is straight. (3) In cases where fibrous anchylosis has occurred in a flexed position the apparatus of Goldthwait1 (Fig. 1670) is of much use for forcible correction. It is always employed with the patient under ether. After the ad- 1 Tloston Med. and Surg. Journal, Sept. 7, 1890, and Dec. 1. 1892.