822 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST. to remove all the fluid at once if the pulse becomes feeble, if blood is found in the tube, or if the patient becomes weak from coughing; the canula should under these circumstances be immediately removed and the opening closed with gauze and collodion. Not infrequently the flow will suddenly cease, owing to the occlusion of the canula with lymph, which may be disengaged by inserting the blunt rod which is provided for that purpose. Rarely do any serious consequences follow the with- drawal of pleural effusions, except an attack of syncope, which may readily be relieved by placing the patient in the recumbent posture. Perfect rest should be enforced for a number of hours after the oper- ation. Should the lung persistently refuse to expand after repeated tappings, it is hardly worth while to pursue this method of treatment, and tonics and change of air will often prove a more satisfactory means of dealing with these recurrent cases. The prognosis in acute effusions following traumatic pleurisy, in non- tubercular cases, and where the lung expands, is favorable; but if the fluid is purulent, and if after several tappings no improvement is noticed, through drainage of the cavity will usually be the best method to pursue. Drainage of the Pleural Cavity.—This is seldom required, ex- cept for empyema. Simple aspiration for the relief of a purulent effu- sion, except where it is of traumatic origin or in children, is not a very successful operation, and only in those cases in which the compressed lung re-expands on the receding of the fluid and re-occupies its normal position, should it be used. One difficulty in the attempted cure of empyema by aspiration is the inability entirely to empty the pleural sac. After the operation a certain amount of pus is apt to he left, and its absorption really never takes place. The early recognition of puru- lent change in a pleural effusion is important. In addition to the physical signs denoting fluid in the pleural sac, the presence of pus will be indicated by chills, hectic, and the other phenomena which accom- pany pus formation. It should always be suspected in children, espe- cially after the eruptive fevers or any serious illness where convalescence is unaccountably delayed, when the patient, instead of improving, begins to fall hack. If, under such circumstances, there are any in- dications of fluid within the pleural sac, its character should imme- diately be verified by using the exploring syringe. The spontaneous cure of an empyema is a rare occurrence. If left to itself, the pus tends to increase in quantity, and will either rupture externally or into the lung, and be discharged through the bronchus. In a case which came under my care, it burrowed down behind the diaphragm and opened into the intestine. Moullin states that it sometimes follows the course of the psoas muscle and points in the groin. Death may occur suddenly from syncope, due to the rapid escape of the fluid following a rupture; the heart and lung being displaced from prolonged pressure and capable of working only to great disadvantage, the least exertion suddenly turns the scale, and death results from asphyxia due to oedema of the opposite lung, or to pus being discharged into the bronchi in such quantities that it cannot be coughed up. I have seen a case in which the discharge through the bronchi was so profuse that by placing the body in a favorable position—that is, by laying the patient on his sound