DISORDERS OF NUTRITION. 447 of Kehrer and Klebs, no bacterium has been found regularly associated with osteomalacia. Osteomalacia occurs in both sexes and at all ages, and osteitis deformans is sometimes regarded as a form of this disease. Poor nourishment, damp dwellings, and deficient clothing contribute largely to the development of the disorder. Furthermore, the use of unduly large quantities of lactic acid seems to induce the disease. All these conditions act largely through disturbances of the digestive or assimilative functions. Osteomalacia is observed so frequently in the states of pregnancy and lactation that these are believed to predispose to or cause it. Eisen- hart, however, after a careful review of the statistics of the subject, comes to a conclusion the very reverse of that just stated, namely, that persons with osteomalacia are predisposed to frequent conception. Fur- thermore, he finds a large proportion of cases of abortion among osteo- malacic women. In 112 cases, the records of which he studied, he found 32 instances, or 28 per cent., of premature delivery by abortion or miscarriage. In regard to the blood, Eisenhart carefully studied this in a case which he describes in detail, and found that it was in a condition of moderate chlorosis, and that its alkalinity was decidedly diminished. The result of his studies brings him to the conclusion that in women certainly osteomalacia is closely connected with, and he thinks dependent upon, disturbance of the ovaries, and associated with periodi- cal or continuous hyperiemia of the pelvic organs. This opinion is partly founded upon clinical observation, and partly upon the reported success in the treatment of osteomalacia by castration. This treatment is said to have been first suggested by Fochier in 1879, and has been specially urged by Fehling, who has secured the best results in eight cases in which he has operated. In like manner—although the expla- nation adopted by Eisenhart may be disputed— the Porro operation has been followed by the cure of osteomalacia. Eisenhart found, in his investigations, 8 cases of osteomalacia in men, and 12 non-puerperal cases in women, some of them girls 12 or 13 years old. Von Jaksch says that propeptone, or hemialbumose, has been found in the urine in osteomalacia, but he failed to discover it in two severe cases treated by Nothnagel. VI. Osteitis Deformans (Leontiasis, Paget's Disease).—This mal- ady was first observed by Sir James Paget, and is well described in this Encyclopaedia by Vincent.1 It is a question whether it should not be classed with rachitis and osteomalacia, all being practically similar processes, due to a disturbance of the ratio of deposit and of excretion of bone salts. Vincent inclines to this view, but Condamin finds some objection to it, because of the occurrence of hyperostosis in ostei- tis deformans. Pozzi has suggested for this disease the name of senile pseudo-rachitis. English investigators have traced a connection be- tween osteitis deformans and various disorders attributed to hyperacid- ity, so called, such as arthritis, gravel, and gout. Some French authors have attributed considerable importance to the presence of rheumatism in certain cases. Schiff has caused somewhat similar disturbance of the bones by section of the nerves, and there is not wanting a writer— Hutchinson—who attributes the whole to the work of a bacterium. 1 Yol. Ill, page 865.