81 ERYSIPELAS. In regard to the different parts of the body where erysipelas most frequently occurs, Bardeleben says that there are twenty cases of erysipelas of the head to one on other portions of the body. This is easily explained by the fact that, in the first place, the tender skin of the face is most exposed to injuries, and, on the other hand, that the scalp is the most difficult part of the body to clean. This is surely also the reason why erysipelas used to be especially dreaded, and of such frequent occurrence, after injuries of the scalp. Hardly anything remains to be said about the epidemics and en- demics of erysipelas. There is nothing mysterious about them, if we look at them from our point of view. Infection through the air surely occurred only in the rarest cases, if ever, while the mode of transpor- tation of the virus was clearly by means of contact; first, by imme- diate contagion through the hands of a patient suffering with erysip- elas, or of those attending upon him; next, the surroundings of a patient, as clothes, bedding, furniture, carpets, curtains, etc., through contact-infection became bearers of the virus, which was through this intermediate link communicated either directly or indirectly to other persons. To avoid endemics in hospitals, it is not only desirable but im- perative to have everything prepared to isolate erysipelatous patients entirely, which means to have ready for them not only an entirely se- cluded pavilion or ward, but also separate physicians, nurses, etc. Several large modern hospitals, for instance the new State Hospital of Hamburg Eppendorf, have created the position of a so-called septic as- sistant, who, with his own staff of head-nurse and nurses, has entire charge of all septic cases, as of phlegmons, gangrene, erysipelas, etc. All the necessary operations are performed in a special operating-room in the septic ward, and the assistant is excluded from helping in or look- ing on at laparotomies. Under these circumstances, with the necessary care, an endemic in such a hospital is next to impossible. Not only this, but the general results of operations are much better, because the assistants are not exposed to infection from poisonous material. We cannot omit the question of recurrence of erysipelas. It is a disease which surely has such a tendenc}r, but it is hard to give exact figures of frequency of recurrence, as statistics, especially in this line, are bound to be unreliable. But 5 per cent, seems to be about the right number. As to the etiology of recurrences, it is without question that the greater part of the so-called recurrences which come to our observation shortly after the primary infection, are nothing but its late manifestations, while some of the later recurrences may be traced to new infections. In spite of all this, some persons show for a number of years a striking disposition to infection by erysipelas, and they are attacked for five, ten, fifteen years, and longer, once or several times every year. This is the so-called habitual erysipelas. Nearly always these patients show local alterations whence the erysipelas starts; as such we find chronic pustulous or ulcerous affections some- where in the skin, chronic suppuration of glands in scrofulous individ- uals, chronic eczemas of the face, at the introitus of the nose, at the lips, ulcerous or catarrhal processes in the nose, pharynx, or mouth, affections of the ear, suppurating processes of the tympanic cavity, with perforation of the tympanum, affections of the neighborhood of the eyelids or lachrymal sac, varicose veins or varicose ulcers, VOL. vii.—0