WOUND-TREATMENT. 71 even elsewhere, when severe venous hemorrhage occurs, it is some- times impossible to control this otherwise than by tamponing the wound for a period varying from several days to a week or more. But for general application to resection of joints, the method seems to possess no advantages over that which advocates arrest of hemor- rhage, close coaptation of the bone surfaces, and healing beneath the blood-clot, where open spaces are unavoidable. If we close such a wound at the end of the second day, we are no more able to guarantee against recurrence of tuberculous disease than by the plan just men- tioned. In both instances w'e avoid filling the cavity of the exsected joint with blood, which during and after organization is so excellent a medium for the rapid growth and dissemination of the tubercle bacil- lus, in case we have failed to remove all diseased tissue. The surest way of guarding against recurrence after operations for extended tuber- culosis, is to tampon permanently after resection, a method applicable to many joints. We can then detect a recurrence, and can deal with it before it assumes large proportions. But it is mainly after operations involving the mouth and nose, their adjacent cavities, and the rectum and vagina, that the perma- nent use of iodoform-gauze tampons is of inestimable value. There is perfect accord of opinion among surgeons as to the efficacy of this plan of treatment. The discharges, which otherwise become foul, caus- ing by their absorption intoxication and occasionally sepsis, remain sweet, even if the tampons are not removed for many days. The dan- gers of septic peritonitis after operations on the rectum and the uterus, and of septic pneumonia after resection of the jaws, have been much lessened since the iodoform-gauze tampon has been recognized as the proper dressing for these cases. Iodoform is, therefore, the one antiseptic which we occasionally apply to wounds with signal advantage. Its use is indicated in origi- nally aseptic wounds, which from their situation will be subsequently exposed to the risk of infection. Where this is not the case, iodoform ought not to be employed. It is not logical to prepare and perform an operation aseptically, and then, before applying an aseptic dressing, to dust the line of suture with iodoform, or to cover it with a piece of iodoform gauze, as is still frequently done. This could only be deemed consistent with an aseptic regime if sterilization of the powdered iodo- form and the preparation of iodoform gauze, with solutions of iodoform, always immediately preceded their use. Iodoform, it is said, can be sterilized by washing it in sublimate solutions. But that this is seldom done by those who apply the powder to wounds is quite certain. Others consider the powder sterile when it leaves the manufacturer’s hands, which is hardly a guarantee, however, that it is so when used. Iodoform gauze prepared from solutions in ether, or ether and alcohol, is, as has been shown, sterile, and there could be no objection to its use, if it were always thus prepared before operation. But this is, I feel assured, but rarely the case. It is a procedure which would, moreover, un- necessarily complicate asepsis. In aseptic surgery the aim must be to dispense with antiseptics about wounds and in the dressings. Does iodoform possess any antiseptic properties? When first intro- duced as a dressing for wounds by Mosetig-Moorliof, almost fifteen years ago, it soon gained favor with the profession, and was regarded, on