UTERINE FIBROIDS. 1005 1 Centralblatt fur Gyn., No. 36, 1893. Neglect of any of the details of asepsis in taking care of the drainage-tube is as fatal as neglect of such details at the time of operation. If the patient is unable to pass flatus, the nurse may introduce into the anus the rectal nozzle of an ordinary syringe. If the patient has distention, vomiting, and abdominal pain, a large, strong, hot mustard plaster may be applied over the epigastrium. If this fails to relieve the distention, a turpentine enema should be given (half an ounce of turpentine to a pint of warm water), and if necessary, this may be repeated in three or four hours. If the stomach is retentive, distention may often be relieved by the ad- ministration of half an ounce of sulphate of magnesium or of Rochelle salt. The surgeon should never give opium in any form after cceliotomy. The patient must not sit up in bed for any purpose during the first two weeks after the operation. The sutures are removed about the tenth day. The incision must be firmly strapped with adhesive plaster. The abdominal bandage must always be neatly and firmly applied. The patient must wear an abdominal support of some kind for six months after the operation. During convalescence the bowels must be moved daily, and daily vaginal douches must be given after the third day following the operation, if there is any vaginal discharge. These directions are given in this rather dogmatic form because they have been drawn up for the use of nurses. They are of course not ab- solute, and modifications are necessary in certain cases. Uterine Fibroids. Uterine fibroids do not cause death so directly and so quickly as ovarian cysts, but nevertheless they are dangerous growths. The state- ment sometimes made that a uterine fibroid rarely, if ever, causes death, is untrue: the advice to tide the woman over th6 period between the time of appearance of the fibroid and the menopause is pernicious, un- less the tumor is of slow growth, exerts no pressure symptoms, and ap- pears near the period of the menopause. In case of fibroid of the uterus the menopause is sometimes delayed for ten years after the usual time. Such cases are embarrassing to a physician who has perhaps promised the woman relief if she would wait until she should reach the usual period. The menopause, moreover, does not always bring relief. Lennander 1 reports six cases in which the fibroid growth was not retarded by the production of an artificial menopause by removal of the ovaries. In one case a tumor weighing 58 pounds had developed seven years after that operation. The cases are therefore exceptional in which it is proper to advise a woman with a uterine fibroid to await nature’s cure at the menopause. Such are the cases in which the tumor is non-cystic, subperitoneal, of slow growth and creating no pressure symptoms, and not accompanied by hemorrhage. All such cases should be watched and operation urged as soon as the symptoms become more active. The reasons that immediate operation should be advised in most cases of uterine fibroid are: the menopause is delayed and does not promise certain relief; the menorrhagia and metrorrhagia resulting from the fibroid so dimin-