344 DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. muscles, the constant contraction of which interferes with union be- tween the walls of any abscess. Sometimes, yet often enough to make the attempt worth while, the very early and free incision of an abscess, causing its entire emptying, and the accurate apposition of its walls, with perfect quiet, may prevent the formation of a sinus, and secure union without destroying the integrity of the sphincter; but generally no such desirable result is obtained, and a fistula is formed. Indeed, so rare is such a union that when it is necessary to open an iscliio-rectal abscess it becomes a question whether the muscle should not be divided at once, and further trouble and pain thereby be avoided. The immediate division of the muscle is a trivial addition to the incision and packing of the abscess required, and the certainty of securing prompt and sound union is thereby so great that the writer has many times adopted it as the regular treatment of the abscess, and has never had occasion to re- gret it. The advice of Dr. Howe concerning the opening of fistulous tracks is good, but as a general thing the abscess is a very simple affair at first, and when freely opened and then put at rest by a divi- sion of the sphincter, there is little danger of burrowing of pus and the consequent formation of a series of such tracks. Even should there be no communication of the abscess with the bowel, it is better at once to divide the sphincter, as thereby an open wound is secured, to the heal- ing of which there is no impediment, while there is no likelihood of incontinence of faeces following. It is not generally necessary to extend the incision up the wall of the bowel to the highest point of the abscess, as healing will generally follow, especially in recent cases, when the incision merely includes the sphincter and the wall of the rectum covering it. Peri-Phalangeal Cellulitis.—In the, few graphic words with which he depicts peri-phalangeal cellulitis Dr. Howe does not in the least exaggerate the suffering experienced in connection with it, rarely, indeed, exceeded by that induced by any other surgical affection. Nor w ill any practical surgeon question the correctness of the advice given by him. Yet experience teaches that the prompt use of the knife, and it should be used without reference to the presence of pus, is not in every case attended by the relief looked for. Occasionally the pain persists and the periosteal irritation extends despite the free use of the bis- toury. When this state of things exists, we can only make free and repeated incisions to favor the escape of matter, and prevent burrowing by the use of fine drainage-tubes, horsehairs, or catgut. Peri-C^cal Cellulitis.—This is an affection which has attracted more and more attention of late years, and the remarks made by Dr. Howe are in some degree prophetic, indicating the treatment which has become the established one, and foreshadowing that exploration of the abdominal cavity in cases of acute peritonitis which, however desper- ate a measure in the eyes of our predecessors, has been resorted to of late years as one which can hardly increase the perilous condition of the patient, while giving him one more chance of life. Dr. Howe was familiar with the inflammation produced by the appendix vermiformis, but he did not know that its removal as a useless and often dangerous organ would become the fashion.