EXPLORATION OF THE L'RETHRA AND BLADDER. 947 necessary. First, cotton carriers, or applicators. These will be con- stantly needed for cleansing the surface of lubricating material, or of blood or discharges, as well as for the making of applications. The best type of carriers are those made of good, stiff wire, roughened at one end, similar to, though longer than, those used in ear and throat work. Applicators made of heavier wire, split at one end, with small tooth-like points for seizing the tampon, and a sliding ring for holding it shut, are often used, and, again, others made of wood answer the purpose very well. In fact the wooden applicators have much to com- mend them, in that they are so inexpensive that they can be thrown away after being once used. Besides applicators, it will be convenient to have at hand a small curette, scissors, forceps, and a small wire ecraseur or snare, while, if the bivalve wire speculum should be em- ployed, Brown’s urethral mirror1 and urethral digit—the latter being a probe with movable end for exploring the surface of the urethra by means of touch—will be found serviceable. Cystoscopy.—The Nitze electric cystoscope, made by Leiter in 1879, already alluded to, is an instrument resembling in shape a vesical cal- culus sound, size 21 F. In the extremity, or beak, is placed a plat- inum loop lamp. This is enclosed in a cap, having a small aperture closed with a plate of rock crystal. The shaft, or tube, which is about five inches in length, contains a S3Tstem of lenses for magnifying the image seen by the observer, as well as one insulated electric conductor (the metal of the tube itself serving as the other), and two small tubes for the conveyance of water to carry away the intense heat developed bv the lamp. It is elbowed, and, at the position of the bend, has an opening in which is placed a prism. The eye-piece, or proximal end, has upon it the tubes to which the water cooling system is attached, and binding posts for the battery connections. The great heat evolved by the lamp in this instrument, and the necessity of a mechanism for cooling it by water, constitute serious objections to it. The improvement of adapting the Edison incandescent lamp to the male cystoscope was not made for several years after the date of Nitze’s instrument. In the mean time Nitze had had a disagreement with Leiter, and sought the skill of Hartwig, of Berlin, for the con- struction of his improved cystoscope. Leiter, too, was working in the same direction, and, in 1887, two incandescent lamp cystoscopes, one by Nitze (made by Hartwig), and the other by Leiter, were presented to the profession. That of Nitze resembles in general appearance his original instrument. In the end of the beak, which is a hollow silver cap, and can be screwed on and off, is placed a small incandescent lamp, which closely fills it. A small oval opening permits the escape of the luminous rays. The shaft differs from that in the earlier instrument in that it does not contain tubes for conveying water to and from the end of the instrument. At the bend of the elbow is, as before, a refracting prism inserted in an aperture. The eye-piece is simplified by the omission of the water connections, and has upon it only the binding posts for the battery wires, and a key controlling the circuit. Leiter's Cystoscope.—This instrument is very much like that of Dr. Nitze in appearance. It has some advantages over it, however. The ' F. Tilden Brown, loc. cit.