DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AMD ANUS. 902 preciate the indications for the operation. To those who believe that the condition is a living death, that the patients are objects of disgust to themselves and those with whom they come in contact, and that there is a constant leakage of faecal matter from the opening which prevents anything approaching personal cleanliness, it is useless to attempt to argue for the operation. But to such it will perhaps seem strange that many of the patients upon whom I have operated have themselves come to me and requested me to do so, because they had known and compared notes with others upon whom I had operated before. One of my patients is a physician doing a large practice as a special- ist in rectal diseases. Three years ago he came to me worn out with a simple ulceration high up in the rectum, and I did a colotomy. He has sent me several cases since, and they merely ask to be made as well and comfortable as he is, in the same way. I think that few have started with a deeper natural objection to the operation than myself. At first I advised it with fear and trembling, but now I do so with perfect confidence. To return, however, to the main point, the indications for the opera- tion. A distinction must be made in all cases between ulceration and contraction. The latter is more easily overcome than the former. Ulcer- ation kills in one way, contraction in another. Both may be associated in the same patient, or either may exist separately and may call for colo- tomy. Given a case of old, non-malignant ulceration, with or without fistulie, and with no stenosis that prevents the patient from relieving his bowels with some straining daily, I often, in such a case, at clini- cal lectures, pick out some intelligent student and ask him what he would do, bearing in mind the fact that the patient has come from a long distance for relief, that he has been under treatment by one means or another for years, that he has spent all his money and can no longer work, and that he has grown steadily worse and is nearing the end of his suffering. Generally the first answer is to dilate or to incise; and I point out that though the man has stricture, he is not really suffering from stenosis but from ulceration. Then local applications and antisyphilitic treatment are suggested; and again I point out that he has had four or five years of that treatment, that he has been filled with iodine and mercury, though the ulcer was never syphilitic but due perhaps to the sloughing following injections of carbolic acid into hemorrhoids, and I ask if with this past history it is worth while to continue the same treatment, pointing out that ulceration of such extent and with such an amount of destruction is incurable by local measures. Then it is seen that we must either leave the patient to die of his disease or do something more radical, and generally we choose colotomy, knowing that after the rectum has once been relieved of the irritation of the fseces it will heal after a few months without local treatment. Inguinal Colotomy. Still another advance of the past few years has been, I cannot but think, the general substitution of inguinal for lumbar colotomy. The old operation was a good one, but, to my mind, the new one is