FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 433 186 cases, argues in favor of operation under certain favorable condi- tions, and with rigid attention to asepsis. Phelps 1 advocates it without reserve, citing 42 cases so treated within five years. He would take no account of age, habits, or constitutional state; thinks it better that the suture should enter the joint; but lays stress on closing this cavity and isolating it from the skin wound. He regards four weeks as the limit for the confinement of the patient to bed. In the discussion on the paper, these views were opposed by Abbe, Bryant, Leale, Stimson, and Stephen Smith. Bogdanik2 sutured a recent fracture of the patella, and thought that he had obtained bony union. The patient dying of pneumonia eighteen months afterward, the fragments were found to have between them a strip of whitish substance like cartilage, 2 or 3 millimetres in width, but no bone; in the lower fragment, which was broken into several pieces held together by the periosteum, bony union had taken place. In another instance, mentioned by Grandclement,3 an autopsy showed in a patella “long before” sutured, the union only fibrous, and the sutures far from the place of their application. Ollier4 would divide fractures of the patella into three categories: recent or immediate; old cases, in which there are adhesions with atrophy and retraction of the muscles; and intermediate cases, at the sixth or eighth month. In the first set he regards cutting operations as premature; in the others, to be adopted or rejected according to cir- cumstances. Kirmisson 5 reports three cases. He thinks suturing a grave proced- ure to be employed in view of the condition apt to be obtained without it, and would restrict it in recent cases to those involving the knee- joint, and in old cases to those in which the approximation of the frag- ments is either extremely difficult or altogether impossible. Bruns6 says that the mere degree of separation is not the criterion of a bad result. Every writer speaks of cases in which “ to his aston- ishment” there is almost unimpaired function in spite of unsatisfactory healing. Such instances, to the number of ten, he cites from Bardele- ben and other well-known surgeons. Beck7 after an analysis of twenty-eight cases, takes ground decidedly against bloody operations; the local result, he admits, is better, but the risk is very great, notwithstanding the claims made by Lister and others. The results of the older methods, he says, are so good that the exposure and suturing of a recently fractured patella can only be jus- tified when there is at the same time a wound of the soft parts, opening into the joint. Another method, that of passing a suture of silver wire subcutane- ously around both fragments, was proposed, I believe, by von Volk- mann.8 Silk has been substituted by Kocher and others, and many successes have been claimed for the procedure, the details of which will at once suggest themselves. Other measures have been resorted to in special cases. Sonnenberg9 1 New York Med. Journal, May 31 and June 7, 1890. 2 Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, 12 Feb., 1887. 3 Lyon Medical, 8 Fev., 1891. 4 Ibid. 5 Qaz des Hopitaux, 2 Oct., 1888. b Beitriige zur klinischen Chirurgie, Band iii., Heft 2, 1888. 1 Ibid. 8 Ashhurst, Principles and Practice of Surgery, 5th edition, 1889, p. 279. 9 Beilage zum Centralblatt filr Chirurgie, 1888, No. 24. VOL. VII.—28