ULCERS. 167 overlapping each other, until the whole surface of the ulcer is covered. Over these strips is placed a pad of bichloride gauze, consisting of ten or twelve layers, large enough to extend beyond the edges of the ulcer in all directions, and freshly wrung out of a 1-2000 bichloride solution, while over this pad is placed another of bichloride cotton. The dress- ing is then held firmly in place by a bandage applied (in case of ulcer of the leg) from the toes to the knee. The bandage should be applied firmly, either as a spiral reversed bandage, or as a spica bandage of the leg, the latter retaining its place better than the former if the patient is compelled to walk about during the course of treatment. This dressing should be renewed every second or third day until the surface of the ulcer presents a healthy granulating surface and the discharge has no odor. After this time the use of bichloride irrigation may be omitted, and the ulcer may then be dressed as a simple or healthy ulcer. If there is a tendency for small sloughs to adhere to the surface, which are not removed by the action of the peroxide of hydrogen, the use of an acidulated solution of pepsin (pepsin 3 grains, hydrochloric acid 2 minims, water a fluidounce) will often liquefy them and cause their rapid removal. It is important that this solution should be in contact with the ulcer for some time, to accomplish the desired result. In some indolent ulcers, where the ulcerated surface is very extensive, even after the condition of the surrounding parts has been improved by the treatment above mentioned, it is impossible to obtain cicatrization, and in such cases some of the various methods of skin-grafting or skin-im- plantation may be employed with advantage; in other cases, where the extent of the ulcer is so great that repair cannot be expected under any form of conservative treatment, amputation of the affected part may be required. Skin-Grafting in Ulcers.—In the case of large ulcers such as occur after burns or scalds where there has been extensive destruction of the skin, we may have a broad surface covered by healthy granula- tions, and in such cases skin-grafting may be employed with advantage. The skin-grafts may be taken from the thigh or arm of the patient, or from recently amputated limbs; the skins of frogs and birds, and the hairless skin of young animals, have also been employed. The surface of the ulcer should be irrigated with a warm solution of boric acid, or with a warm normal salt solution, 0.7 per cent., and the grafts, taken from a portion of skin which has been sterilized by washing with soap and water and then with bichloride solution, are placed upon the granulating surface at a number of points, and are applied in lines transversely across the surface of the ulcer, so that a number may be covered by one strip of protective. Over each line of grafts a strip of protective, which has been sterilized and then dipped in boric acid or normal sal*t solution, is next laid, and a strip of isinglass plaster is fastened to the sound skin at one edge of the ulcer and is carried directly over the protective and fastened to the skin on the opposite side. This serves to keep the protective in place, and to press the grafts firmly upon the granulating surface. A number of these strips of protective and isinglass plaster are applied, until all the lines of grafts have been covered in. A pad composed of a number of layers of borated or sterilized gauze, and a few layers of borated or sterilized cotton, are