(149) RACHITIS. BY J. LEWIS SMITH, M.D., CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF DISEASES OF CHILDREN IN THE BELLEVUE HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE, NEW YORK. Rachitis is a constitutional disease, but its most conspicuous ana- tomical characters pertain to the osseous system. The gross nutritive changes which it produces in the bones and cartilages, causing deform- ities, are well known to both physicians and public. In addition to these anatomical changes in the skeleton, typical cases exhibit a lack of tonic- ity along with stretching of the ligaments, causing the knock-knee and flat foot. They exhibit also weakness of the muscles, resembling paralysis, and sometimes mistaken for it in severe cases, reflex irrita- bility, rendering rachitic patients liable to laryngismus and tetany, un- due perspiration, anaemia, and proneness to catarrhal inflammations. Certain anatomical changes in the spleen and liver also occur in aggra- vated forms of the disease. These many and diverse anatomical and functional characters indicate the constitutional or general nature of rachitis. Therefore theories which restrict rickets to the osseous s}rs- tem are inadequate and erroneous. Antiquity of Rachitis.-—Rachitis is probably an ancient disease. It is said that an old statue of HCsop, who was thrown from a precipice by the indignant Delpliians 56-1 years before Christ, exhibited rachitic deformities; and Hippocrates, born 160 years before Christ, is believed to have alluded to this affection in his Treatise on the Articulations. Occasional expressions in the works of Celsus and Galen in the second century of the Christian era have led writers on rickets to believe that they also had observed the deformities produced by this disease. But rickets was first investigated in a scientific manner by Whistler, Glis- son, and their contemporaries in the middle of the seventeenth century. During the last few years many excellent monographs have been writ- ten on rachitis, and its causation, pathology, and treatment are better understood than formerly. Frequency.—Rachitis is widespread, but it is comparatively infre- quent in rural localities where families enjoy the hygienic requirements of pure air, sunlight, and a plentiful diet of good quality. It is most common in the crowded and badly fed families of the city tenement- houses where anti-hygienic conditions prevail. As pointed out in Vol. I., mild cases of rickets, not manifested by any prominent signs or