529 PELVIS—CLAVICLE—SCAPULA. The result in all lias been satisfactory, though in one of the cases of empyema the patient is tuberculous, and entire recovery is therefore not to be expected. Contrarily to the ordinarily received view, I have found very little trouble from hemorrhage in excisions of the ribs, the intercostal arteries being commonly occluded as the result of the pre- viously existing disease. Pelvis.—C. Nelaton records a case in which he removed the whole ilium, the patient recovering and preserving the power of walking; partial resection—cutting out a wedge from the crista ilii—has, in my hands, proved of value in the treatment of iliac abscesses, and is, I think, upon the whole preferable to trephining the ilium as advised by Fischer, Riedel, and Gangolphe. Partial excision of the sacrum is re- commended by Kraske as a means of facilitating operations on the rec- tum, a purpose accomplished by Heinecke, Rydygier, and Gussenbauer, by means of temporary resection of the same bone. Clavicle.—I have twice had occasion to excise the entire clavicle, once for necrosis and once for tumor—an ossifying enchondroma—and in a third case 1 removed the inner two-thirds of the bone for a large osteosarcoma, the last-mentioned operation having been the most diffi- cult of the three. In the case of necrosis, the bone was readily peeled out from its periosteal sheath, and quick reproduction took place, the patient regaining the use of his arm in not much longer time than is required for the repair of a fracture of the bone concerned. In all the three cases the patients recovered satisfactorily from the operation, but in the case of sarcoma the growth recurred after some months and led to a fat'al result. To the 28 cases of total excision of the clavicle tab- ulated in Yol. III., page 5S0, I am now able to add 9 more, viz., the successful cases of Jessett, Kronlein, Sloan, Tansini, Wheeler, and two of my own, the fatal case of Segond, and one of uncertain result in the hands of Despres; the whole 37 cases gave 29 known recoveries, one undetermined, and but 7 deaths, a mortality of only 19.4 per cent. Additional successful cases of partial excision of the clavicle reduce the death-rate of that operation to only 14 per cent. I have once excised the sterno-clavicular articulation in a case of un- reduced dislocation with marked deformity, suturing the resected bones together, and obtaining a satisfactory result. Scapula.—Total excision of the scapula, the arm being preserved, appears to have been now practised in 59 cases, the additional success- ful operations, since the publication of the table in Yol. III., page 583, having been those of Ceci, Maclean, Phelps, Putti (two cases), Shutz, Simons, Soutliam, Symonds, and Walder, ten in all; the fatal opera- tions, those of Brinton, Ceci, Cheever, and Poinsot, four in number; and the undetermined cases those of Bull, Dysart, and Weir. Wood’s case, marked undetermined in the table, was a success. The whole 59 cases therefore have given 43 recoveries, 12 deaths, and 4 uncertain results^—a mortality of determined cases of 21. S per cent. Extirpation of the scapula subsequent to amputation at the shoulder has been prac- tised in six cases additional to those tabulated in Yol. III., page 5S4, there having been two successful operations, by Conant and Lange; two vol. vii.—34