HERNIA. 876 With the finger or with dull-pointed scissors, the structures of the spermatic cord and the hernial sac are carefully dissected out of the inguinal canal. The hernial sac should be freed from all attachments well down to the inner surface of the internal ring. The operator is now ready to open the sac and reduce the con- tents of the hernia. This is done preferably by picking up the sac with two pairs of forceps and carefully cutting through it until a few drops of serum exude. This liquid is almost universally present in cases of hernia, and when this is non-strangu- lated is clear and straw-colored. A grooved director can now be inserted through this small puncture and the sac further divided so that the finger may be admitted and the contents examined by the touch. If the sac contain only intestine, which is non-adherent, it can readily be reduced. If there be only an ordinary mass of omentum, it may also be returned to the abdominal cavity, unless it has been long compressed and changed in structure by its location in the sac. When, however, the omentum is indurated or the mass large, it should be tied off with strong, carefully asepticized catgut (boiled in alcohol for at least fdtir hours before being used). It is important to be assured that there are no adhesions in the deeper portions of the sac, and that the reduction of the contents is complete. The sac, being freed from all attachments to the cord as well as to the immediate edges of the internal ring, is now twisted so as to completely occlude it at the neck, when it is transfixed and tied with a double, strong catgut ligature. It is then cut o£E about \ inch from the ligature and allowed to drop. Bassini recommends, when the hernia is very large and the openings of the in- ternal ring and of the sac are broad, that there be another row of sutures in the divided sac. In case of a congenital hernia, the sac should be cut off one inch above the testis, and should be separated from the cord up to the internal ring, as Fig. 1728. Fig. 1729. Fig. 1730. First Stage. Second Stage. Third Stage. Bassini’s Operation for the Radical Cure of Inguinal Hernia. in the method just described. This divided sac can be twisted and tied off in the same way as in the acquired form of hernia. Fig. 1728 shows the incision through the skin, the first step in Bassini’s operation;—at «a, the reflected flap of the external oblique muscle. The sac is tied off and dropped back into the abdominal cavity, while the spermatic cord is held to one side by a blunt hook. The second step consists in stitching the conjoined tendon of the external oblique and transversalis muscles to the shelving edge of Poupart’s ligament, preferably by sutures of Kangaroo tendon, or next in order strong silk, carefully sterilized. These sutures can be inserted by the ordinary curved needles. In my own work I prefer the Iiagedorn, but any good needle will suffice. Care must be taken not to wound the femoral vein or the external iliac vein which lie close to the shelving edge of Poupart’s ligament, which is included in the suture. It is my practice to insert a very dull grooved director over the vein, and to carry the point of the needle along the groove until it is turned upward to transfix the shelving edge of Poupart’s ligament. The posterior wall of the canal, composed of the transver- salis fascia, should be included in the upper grasp of the needle along the conjoined tendon. From four to six sutures inserted in this way will suffice. The lower