DISEASES AXD INJURIES OF BURS.E. 398 Recurrence of Chronic Bursal Enlargements after Excision. Volkmann has reported two cases of this accident after removal of a prepatellar bursa. This is explained, as well as the bilobed form of certain cases of “housemaid’s knee,” by the long-known fact that the prepatellar bursa is often multilocular, the spaces at times communicat- ing, at others forming separate sacs. Gruber, Luschka, and Linliart have described two or three superimposed sacs in this region which may or may not communicate. Treatment.—As recurrence has been reported after excisions of the prepatellar bursa only, when the operation is done the dissection should be carried down to the fibrous layer covering the surface of the bone and serving as its periosteum. Fungous Bursitis. This disease, incidentally mentioned in the article on Diseases of the Bursae,1 has been since proved, by numerous observers, 2 to be tubercular, first by the detection of giant-cells, formerly the only criterion for determining the presence of this disease, but more recently and beyond question by the discovery of the bacillus tuberculosis in certain cases of the malady.3 Volkmann first taught the tubercular nature of this disease in 1865, and was followed by Kuester; hut it was Charles Nelaton who in 1883 reported a case of Terrier’s, clearly proving the correctness of previous teaching. Tuberculosis of bursae occurs in two distinct forms, viz. : (1) fungous bursitis, caseous bursitis, or cold abscess of a bursa; and (2) bursitis with riziform or melon-seed bodies. Caseous Bursitis.—This form of bursitis may develop near either a tubercular tumor or a focus of tuberculous osteo-myelitis, but is more often primitive, being a local tuberculosis of the bursa itself. Brief ab- stracts of the histories of a few typical cases will best serve to render clear the diagnosis and treatment of this condition. Terrier had under his care a male patient, aged 29 years, who, with- out any previous tubercular history, presented a rounded swelling of the size of two fists situated over the inferior angle of the left scapula, beneath which it seemed to extend. The tumor was indolent, soft, fluctuating, non-reducible, and unaffected by coughing. The contents 1 See Yol. III., p. 144. 2 Lancereaux, Labbe and Coyne, Trelat, Terrier, Charles Nelaton, Roswell Park, Annals of Surgery, vol. i., p. 241. 3 Editorial Article, Annals of Surgery, vol. i., pp. 233-256, founded on the following articles: Charvot, Rev. de Chirurg., Mai, Juin, Aout, Sept., 1884, Des Conditions favorablcs ou, defavorables a la tuberculose osseuse ; Cliarpy, Ibid., Sept., 1884, p. 689; Contrib. l’Etude des Tumeurs blanches et des Abcesfroidsdans leurs Rapports avec l'lnfection Tuber- culeuse, Menard, These de Paris, 1884; Tuberculose der Knoclien und Gelenke, Prof. Dr. Konig, S. 170, Berlin, 1884; Ueber cliirurgische Tuberculose, Mogling, Mittheilungen aus d. chirurg. Klinik zu Tubingen, Zweites Heft, S. 248, 1884: Ueber Driisentuberculose und die Wiehtigkeit frlihzeitiger Operationen, Garre, Deutsche Zeitsehrift f. Chile, Bd. xix., Hft. 6, S. 529.