608 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. Apraxia is a general term denoting the loss of perception of the use, odor, color, taste, or other properties of any object. It has of course as many varieties as there are avenues by which the mind may he reached; for instance, sight, touch, smell, taste, hearing for lan- guage, hearing for music, etc., any of which may be lost, producing mind blindness, mind deafness, etc. An object which cannot be recog- nized bv sight (mind blindness) may be very well recognized by touch. This symptom usually indicates a lesion also in the supra-marginal or angular gyrus in the left hemisphere in right-handed persons. One of the most remarkable instances of diagnosis based upon this symptom is related by Macewen.1 Diagnosis of Brain Tumors.—It is a lamentable fact that at pres- ent our diagnosis, sometimes of the existence, but more often of the location, of a brain tumor, is far from being as exact as we could wish. Chipault2 has tabulated 111 operations for brain tumor, in IT of which the tumor was not found, either because it did not exist, or, much more frequently, because it was not rightly localized and was only discovered after death. More than one-tliird of the operations, therefore, have followed an erroneous diagnosis. The only consolation that surgeons can have in such cases is that the subject is so comparatively recent that our means of diagnosis are as yet very imperfect, and that all of these patients would have died just the same without an operation, though at a somewhat later period. The evidences of the existence of a tumor have already been given, and the differential diagnosis, especially between tumor and abscess, has been dealt with on page 588. Bright’s disease and sometimes lead-poisoning resemble brain tumor in some of their sjunptoms, such as headache, vomiting, convulsions, and choked disc. But the examination of the urine and the oedema or dropsy of Bright’s disease, and the wrist-drop and condition of the gums in lead-poisoning, enable us to make the distinction. The means of locating a tumor have been already alluded to in general terms, but it must be remembered that a brain tumor may exist, even for a long time, without any symptoms whatever, or still oftener without any localizing symptoms of value. This is particularly true in what are called the latent zones of the brain, especially the an- terior portion of the frontal lobes, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, except a part of the left side, a considerable part of the parietal and occipital lobes, and to some extent the cerebellum. Tumors of the motor area may be located by the means already de- scribed ; tumors of the cuneus by the hemianopsia and other symptoms. Tumors involving the second temporo-sphenoidal convolution and the angular and supra-marginal gyri have also been alluded to. It is of some importance, however, to allude especially to tumors of the fron- tal lobe and tumors of the cerebellum. Tumors of the Frontal Lobe.—These are characterized first of all by early slowness of the mental processes. The comprehension is good and the conclusions are correct, if the patient is allowed time to think. But rapid mental action is impossible, and if insisted on results in confusion. There is also listlessness of manner, drowsiness in the 1 Brit. Med. Journal. 2 Etudes de Cliir. Medullaire.