VASOMOTOR AND TROPHIC NERVE CHANGES. 393 ( stance of the parotid gland, until either the cervico-facial or the temporo- facial branch is found, when it is traced back to the main trunk. Vasomotor and Trophic Nerve Changes. Angeio-Neurotic (Edema.—Certain vasomotor and trophic disturb- ances of nerves are deserving of the surgeon’s attention; among them are: Angeio-neurotic oedema (Quincke and others), or acute circum- scribed oedema, manifesting itself by the rather sudden appearance of localized cedematous swellings of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which may subside again in a few hours or less, or may persist for several days. The disease, as a rule, first appears in early life, and Osier and others have observed a seeming hereditary tendency in a number of cases; a more or less distinct periodicity has also been noticed. The hands, feet, lips, eyelids, and genitalia are most commonly affected. The color of the part is usually pale, and the local temperature is somewhat lower than normal; the patient often experiences a burning and tingling sensation, with stiffness, and sometimes pain. The mucous membranes may be affected, and rarely oedema of the larynx has been seen. Vom- iting and gastralgia may accompany the attack. Acromegaly.—In this rare disease there are also trophic changes manifesting themselves by a gradual increase in size of the hands and feet, the bones as well as the soft parts being affected. The nose, chin, and lips also increase in size. The subjective symptoms consist chiefly in general weakness and various neuralgic pains. The exact cause of acromegaly is unknown; enlargement of the pituitary body has been found in a number of cases. Morvan’s Disease.—In this peculiar affection there occur painless whitlows and ulcerations of the fingers, preceded often by neuralgic pains, and accompanied by complete insensibility of the parts and atro- phy of the muscles. The lesions of neuritis of the peripheral nerves are found after death, and changes in the gray matter of the cord have been described. Recent investigations seem to show that the disease has a certain relation to syringomyelia. The disease has been chiefly observed in Brittany. Raynaud’s Disease, or Symmetrical Gangrene.—In this affection there is a “local asphyxia” or contraction of the capillaries of the fingers and hands, supposed to be of neuro-trophic origin and often leading to gangrene. The parts are white and bloodless, there is analgesia, and the local temperature is lowered; subsequently the extremities may become dusky red in color. The disease occurs most commonly in elderly wo- men, and in cases of chlorosis and hysteria, and is met with particularly in winter. Pitres, Vaillard, Affleck, and others have found peripheral neuritis of the affected extremities; syringomyelia and lesions of the brain have also been found after death. The treatment consists in endeavoring to stimulate the circulation by warm baths, friction, and electricity.