236 TUMORS. split in the median line), and the shallow groove disappears, being filled up by the coalescence of these two lateral elevations. As Bramann says, a slight exaggeration of this groove, making it a little deeper, would furnish the opportunity for a sequestration of the epithelium at its base. Congenital sinuses are found here too, showing that there must be a foetal infolding along this line in some cases at least. Dermoids are not uncommon about the auricle, and over the mastoid, and when one recalls that the auricle develops from six different promi- nences clustered around the external meatus, according to His, it is not difficult to perceive how inclusion of epithelium occurs in this local- ity. Although many have attempted to explain the cysts found over the mastoid process, in the same way -as the cysts which occur in other portions of the skull where there are no distinct folds, it appears to me more probable that they are simply auricular dermoids a little dis- placed, like the similar tumors about the angle of the orbit already mentioned. Until recently it was considered difficult to account for the dermoids found within the cranium, but we are indebted to Mikulicz for a ready explanation of the occurrence of most of them. Many of these tumors develop in connection with the deep infolding of the ectoderm which takes place to form the internal ear, and Mikulicz includes the chole- steatomata, so common in the neighborhood of the temporal bone, among the dermoids. When the encephalon is divided by the deep fissures which sink into it, the outer envelopes do not follow, except partially between the fore-brain and hind-brain, where the dura mater forms the tentorium. Nearly all of the intra-cranial dermoids, however, lie in connection with the tentorium. We must recollect that the skin and dura are originally in contact, and that the cranial bones develop after- wards between them, and then it will not be difficult to imagine that in some cases at least the ectoderm should follow the dura into this cleft, and a portion of it become sequestrated in that situation. Now among the recorded cases of dermoids in this region we can find all the transitional forms. There are subcutaneous dermoids, with the occipi- tal bone hollowed out by their pressure in the region of the occipital protuberance. There are dermoids lying between the layers of the oc- cipital hone. There are dermoids lying between the dura mater and the hone, with an opening in the latter, and a fibrous band, connecting the sac with the scalp, passing through this foramen. Finally (Haw- kins’s case) there are dermoids within the dura mater, but connected with the tentorium. Lannelongue has seen a deep transverse fold across the occiput in the skin of a human foetus—-a monster. Less easy to explain are the cases in which a dermoid lies over the anterior fontanelle, often closely simulating a meningocele because it becomes tense when the child cries. Mikulicz is forced here to suppose that a pathological intensification of normal conditions has occurred, exag- gerating the shallow grooves which run across the ectoderm along the course of the fissures developing in the brain beneath, and thus giving opportunity for epithelial sequestration. Sutton prefers to explain these last-mentioned dermoids by supposing an adhesion to take place or per- sist between the skin and dura mater, so that a portion of the latter becomes buried in the gradually thickening tissue during the develop- ment of the bone, and thus becomes sequestrated. We note in passing