ERYSIPELAS. 87 whiskey, brandy, or champagne, with strong, nourishing, but easily digestible food. I want to call attention to the necessity of giving these stimulants early, and not only when collapse has set in. AtVolk- mann’s Clinic, it was usual to give quite large doses of alcohol, from forty to one hundred grammes daily (with equal parts of syrup and an aroma- tic water), which dose was sometimes increased considerably for heavy drinkers. It remains to be said, that Volkmann avoided alcohol in cases with very high temperature and absolutely dry skin, while nervous complications, like delirium, do not contraindicate its employment. Beside alcohol, quinine, or iron, perhaps also camphor, may be used. English authors especially emphasize the use of iron very strongly, and many of them call it a specific against erysipelas. It is hard to under- stand its effect, if we do not accept the explanation that the ptomaines of the cocci of erysipelas have a deleterious influence on the red blood- corpuscles and deprive them of their haemoglobin. The different forms in which iron is given are the tincture and solution of ferric chloride, which were recommended in large doses by Hamilton Bell, the solution of ferrous chloride, and the bromide of iron. Bell’s tincture was usually given in doses of fifteen or twenty drops in water, every two hours, and in very severe cases twenty-five drops every two hours, day and night; for babies, two drops in sweetened water every two hours. About the same dose of the other compounds of iron was employed, only given in gruel, instead of in water. Beside iron, oil of turpentine, tincture of aconite, ergot, iodide of po- tassium, chlorine water, and belladonna have been given. For the complications, especially the gastric symptoms, emetics were adminis- tered as early as possible; for high fever, camphor, large doses of qui- nine, digitalis, veratrine, salicylate of sodium, cold baths, etc., were especially recommended. Pirogoff was especially emphatic in the rec- ommendation of camphor, while others, like Thiersch, Burckhardt, Volkmann, Busch, Oettingen, and Sporer have not observed its much- vaunted results. In regard to the remedies just mentioned for the fever, I may say that Volkmann was generally not in favor of trying to check or reduce it, as he thought that the fever was a natural reaction and “self-help” of the organism against the invasion. This idea does not seem to be very wrong, since we know from experiments that most of the micro-organisms find their most favorable conditions in the nor- mal temperature of the body, and that many of them can endure quite low temperatures—living bacteria can exist in ice—but can stand an elevation of the temperature above the normal even by a few degrees, for only a very short time. Only in exceptional cases is the height of the fever itself of immediate danger to the patient, and many surgeons, at least, do not acknowledge that they have ever lost patients by high fever; they claim that not the temperature has been fatal to the living cell, but the toxic effects, which we cannot counteract. The narcotics, opium, morphine, chloral, sulfonal, etc., are of great value if the patient becomes very restless and excited, but they must be given in large doses, since small ones only intensify the febrile excite- ment, instead of inducing rest and sleep. Wherever it becomes neces- sary to lower the excessive temperature, cold baths are surely the best and most reliable remedy, being also one which acts promptly. As manifold as the internal remedies for erysipelas are those for local