DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 342 Thus continued study of bacteriology may enable us to speak positively as to the modifying influence exerted by this or that microscopic germ upon different kinds of pus, and to account for the varieties observed. There would seem to be little doubt that these varieties are accompanied by different kinds of spores, and when repeated observations have proved the connection between them to be more than accidental, we shall have gained a point from which we may begin to differentiate the varieties of areolar disease dependent thereupon. But at present we are not able to do more than frame hypothetical structures in accordance with the dim teachings of observations thus far made. Everything points to the important sphere which the bacteriologist is to occupy , and it is upon what is to be learned from his cultures that the development of our exact knowledge concerning varieties of areolar disease in large measure depends. It would also seem as if much information might be obtained from a larger and more accurate knowledge of the parasites infesting all ani- mal structures. With his advancing years the late Dr. Joseph Leidy devoted more and more attention to parasites, but without reference to the diseased conditions brought about by their presence. No member of the animal kingdom was brought to him that he did not detect many, and often new, varieties of parasites. The writer recalls the fact that in an ordinary ocean sun-fish Professor Leidy showed him no less than five parasites which he had detected in those few tissues that he had examined, and no less than two of them had been previously unde- scribed. Dr. Howe describes three of the forms which are known to cause disturbance in the connective tissue of man, but even a moderate acquaintance with parasites might lead us to a better understanding of those which in their process of entry, growth, or death, cause diseases which we term inflammatory, but of the true etiology of which we are entirely ignorant at the present time. Adhering to the divisions made by Dr. Howe, it will be the aim of the present writer merely to make such additional observations upon each as seem to him to be called for or made necessary by the rapid progress of surgical science. Simple Cellulitis.—This is of frequent occurrence, and the impor- tance of searching for and removing the cause should not be lost sight of, as upon it the treatment must largely depend. This will generally lie along the lines laid down by Dr. Howe. As a general thing local pressure will be found advantageous in the treatment of cellulitis, and the use of such dressings only as are found by experience to be unirritat- ing. Yet moderately strong solutions of sugar of lead will generally be found beneficial, either alone or combined with laudanum, lead from its well-known sedative qualities being less irritating than the other as- tringents. When suppuration occurs, the free incisions advised by Dr. Howe should be immediately resorted to, and here compression, together with proper drainage and the use of aseptic lotions, will belli to secure sound healing of the parts. Both pressure and drainage act as preventives of that entrance of the “exudates” into the circulation which modern surgeons have learned to dread, while the comfort to be obtained from a properly applied band- age either of cotton or flannel is a matter of daily experience. As a