451 INFECTIOUS OSTEOMYELITIS. say, in the first place, that this supposition is merely a surmise, founded upon a priori grounds; and, in the second place, that it ignores the fact that the germs which excite osteomyelitis also excite suppurative inflammation in other parts of the body, and that it is un- likely they should elect the bones at a distance from the point of en- trance, and leave no noticeable trace of their action at this point, or anywhere between it and where the bone disease develops. It has been asserted that these organisms may effect an entrance through the unbroken skin by the route of the hair follicles and seba- ceous gland ducts, as happens in the case of the staphylococcus of fu- runcle and of carbuncle. But this again is a matter of surmise. The most probable route of entrance is the mucous membrane of the respi- ratory tract or digestive tract, and probably at some point where there is weakness or lesion of their epithelial lining. Once admitted to the system, cocci may proceed without noticeable manifestations to the bones where—usually in the epiphyses—-they find a convenient habitat, in which they multiply, and where they set up the characteristic lesions of infective osteomyelitis. Such outbreaks are in some cases preceded by collections of pus in other parts of the body, in which the staphylococcus may be found. In such collections it has been observed that, the more chronic the process and the less constitu- tional reaction there is accompanying it, the more likely it is that the coccus found will be of a lighter color: that is, the mild forms of the disease are associated with the staphylococcus pyogenes citreus or albus, while the graver and more acute forms of infection are accom- panied by the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. Lannelongue and Achard, in 1890, reported to the Societe de Biologie a series of experi- ments which seemed to demonstrate the relative degree of virulence just described. Certain conditions are probably necessary to infection with the bac- teria of osteomyelitis: some lowering- of the tone or condition of the system, or some excitation like that of adolescence, or some trauma- tism. This may be of so slight a character as to escape particular attention, but it is probably present in every case. In addition to the three forms of staphylococcus referred to, it has already been mentioned that osteomyelitis may be produced by the action of the streptococcus pyogenes; although Ullmann asserts 1 that it has heretofore never been found alone in the pus of osteomyelitis. Unmistakable forms of in- fectious osteomyelitis are occasioned by the bacillus pyocyaneus, as also by the micrococcus tetragenus, and the bacillus prodigiosus. Ullmann, in four attempts to produce osteomyelitis by subcutaneous injection of an emulsion of bacillus prodigiosus, succeeded in every case. The occurrence of inflammatory disease of the bones after typhoid fever is by no means uncommon, and such inflammation has been attributed to the presence of the bacillus of typhoid fever. This bacillus has been found in the pus of osteomyelitis under such circumstances, and in some cases is said to have been found unaccompanied by any other coccus or bacillus. Ullmann reports thirteen experiments—twelve on rabbits and one on a dog—with an emulsion of typhoid bacillus; and in four of the rabbits and in the dog he succeeded in producing the lesions of osteomyelitis. 1 Osteomyelitis Acuta. Wien, 1891.