787 CEDEMA OF THE LAliYNX. acteristic of the morbid state of the blood existing in influenza, and is similar to the condition found in the mucous membrane of the bronchi and in the walls of the air-vesicles. This solid oedema may involve any part of the air-tract. It is seen in the nasal, post-nasal, pharyngeal, laryngeal, and bronchial mucous membrane, and in the walls of the air-vesicles. It is most frequent in the palate and in the lateral walls of the pharynx. More rarely it in- volves the larynx, and then constitutes a grave form of disease. To the eye the membrane has a swollen, oedematous appearance, and is paler than the normal mucous membrane. The veins are enlarged and may be visible. The membrane appears dry and pale, although in many cases a viscid secretion is present, and when artificial light is thrown upon it this may present a sparkling appearance. To the touch it gives a solid feeling, with an entire want of its normal elas- ticity, and it does not pit under pressure. When the larynx is involved we may find the mucous membrane of the ventricular bands, the true cords, the epiglottis, and the posterior sur- face of the larynx affected. More frequently we find the oedema limited to one of these parts, the other portions remaining normal. When the true cords are involved we find them, on inspection with the laryn- geal mirror, swollen, pale, and glistening. This swelling is especially noticeable at the edges of the cords. When the ventricular bands are affected the oedema is generally bilateral. The bands are symmetrically swollen, and may cower the true cords to such a degree as to produce a most complete stenosis of the larynx. (Edema of the epiglottis changes this organ into a symmetrically swollen tumor. In small children it may be so much enlarged as to almost entirely close the glottis. With this swelling there is no sign of inflammation, and secretion may be entirely absent. In many cases, in addition to the swelling, we notice a paresis of the true cords due to imperfect action of the adductors. The symptoms of septic oedema of the larynx depend upon the part involved. When the true cords are the site of the oedema there is an impairment of the voice, which is especially noticeable in singing. In many cases the voice fails completely and the greatest effort does not suffice to produce a tone. This condition usually comes on sud- denly. This loss of the singing voice may be present, although the voice of ordinary conversation may appear normal. When the ven- tricular bands are affected the symptoms will depend upon the amount of tumefaction. If slight there may be no special symptoms. When great, however, the larynx may be almost completely closed. This condition is especially a dangerous one, for there is always a tendency to spasm of the glottis which may be quickly fatal. A minor oedema or swelling of the ventricular bands may cause a certain degree of hoarseness or huskiness of the voice. (Edema of the epiglottis rarely causes symptoms in the adult. In infants it produces the symptoms of spasmodic croup. In oedema of the ventricular bands and of the epi- glottis in children, there may be marked stridor in both inspiration'and expiration. This is persistent, and at times becomes greatly intensified when the element of spasm is added to the obstructive lesion. The constitutional symptoms of septic oedema are those of influenza.