916 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. field one at 49 years, and a number of others where the overgrowth was attended by cystitis, retention, etc. An examination of the prostates of a large number of men under fifty, suffering with some vesical disorder, has convinced me that enlargement of this organ frequently takes place at an earlier period than is usually supposed, but rarely gives rise to trouble until some pathological change in the bladder supervenes in consequence of senility. Guyon believes that the hypertrophy is due to general athe- roma. Moullin says “that the primary change is the invasion of the surrounding tissues by a glandular growth, with more or less stroma, distantly resembling the normal structure of the prostate. Sometimes it spreads superficially, sometimes eccentrically. Its rate of increase may be rapid and irregular, leading to the formation of outlying bosses and nodules, or it may be slow and uniform, so that the gland enlarges equally in all its dimensions. The one gives rise to the soft adenomatous prostate, with possibly cysts and distinct encapsulated tumors scattered through it, the other to the dense and but slightly enlarged variety.” This writer does not think that the enlargement is due to senile changes, and says that it is difficult to understand how general atheroma, always attended with defective nutrition, can explain the overgrowth. In an address (1892) before the Detroit Medical Library Association on this subject, Prof. G. Frank Lydston, of Chicago, took the view that prostatic enlargement was due, in a majority of cases, to wffiat he termed prostatic overstrain. This author believes that, inasmuch as the pros- tate is a sexual and not a urinary organ, it is in the direction of some perturbation of its physiological sexual function that we must look for an explanation of its pathological changes, with the exception, of course, of such pathological conditions as are incidental to traumatism or infection. Professor Lydston gives due credit to certain other factors in the etiology of prostatic overgrowth, such as gout, senility, etc., but claims that these factors are alike subordinate to prostatic overstrain, perpetuated for a long period during the height of sexual activity of the individual. This overstrain produces active hyperaemia and glan- dular proliferation, which if it persists for a long period is not followed by a restoration to the normal condition, but by permanent hyper- trophy. While prostatic enlargement may take place from an urethritis which has produced inflammation of the prostate, and more or less permanent hypertrophy may follow “prostatic overstrain,” these con- ditions are not followed by loss of power of the muscular coat of the bladder and by an accumulation of residual urine, with all the conse- quent symptoms. Some other changes are necessary, and while these are occasionally seen in younger men, whose bladders may be said to be prematurely old, they are usually found in men after fifty-five years of age. These senile changes are very common. Sir Henry Thompson1 found in 200 post-mortem examinations of men over fifty-five years of age, that 1 in 3 had prostatic hypertrophy and that 1 in 20 had manifest symptoms of that condition. Mr. Reginald Harrison,2 since his article in the Encyclopaedia was written, has given a very clear and satisfactory explanation of the 1 Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 8th ed., 1888. 2 Surgical Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 3d edition.