DISEASES OF TIIE JOINTS. 522 ease of that bone. Along with the swelling and the inflammation of the joint is associated stiffness of the joint movements. This is apt to be deceptive, because at times the medio-tarsal joint becomes more than normally flexible, and executes a certain amount of the movement or- dinarily accomplished at the ankle-joint itself. This tends, unless the surgeon is carefully on the watch, to mask the rigidity of that articu- lation. There are two malpositions which are not commonly found in cases of ankle-joint disease and which have been but slightly alluded to. One is a distinct talipes equinus with the foot held rigidly in that position. In connection with this there is generally swelling of the ankle, to show that it is not an ordinary talipes equinus. The same may be said of talipes calcaneus, which occasionally, although more rarely, ex- ists in connection with ankle-joint disease. The foot is sharply flexed and held in that position by muscular spasm. Pain is generally a prominent factor, but is not always noticeably present, so that the significance of these two malpositions may be overlooked. They are evidences of muscular irritation, and are of the same class of symptoms as the malposition of the hip in early joint disease, and the flexion of the knee, in early tumor albus. To speak for a moment of tarsal and metatarsal disease, it is dis- tinguished chiefly from ankle-joint disease by the fact that in the former the ankle-joint is movable, and that the swelling is chiefly localized to the tarsal region, or to some especial metatarsal bone. Swelling of the metatarsus involves ankle-joint movement if it goes on to any marked degree, although it is never severe enough to cause the malposition spoken of in connection with ankle-joint disease proper. It is in young children chiefly that metatarsal disease occurs, and the bone most frequently affected is the first metatarsal. The process seems more like a periostitis than a true osteomyelitis, and very fre- quently on incising these swellings a partial necrosis is found. With regard to the treatment of ankle-joint disease, I incline very strongly toward the expectant method, not only in children but also in mild cases in adults. In pursuing this treatment the error is very often made, just as it is in disease of the knee-joint, of fixing the diseased joint in plaster of Paris, and allowing the patient to walk about, without perhaps even the use of crutches. This, of course, furnishes fixation to the joint as far as hinge motion goes, but it af- fords no protection whatever against the jar of the body weight in walking, and consequently is very incomplete, and insufficient to pro- tect the joint from becoming worse. Fixation, even if enough to pre- vent motion, is only half the treatment, and should be joined to protec- tion against weight-bearing in all cases severe enough to require any treatment at all. The method to be pursued in these cases is a very simple one, and has yielded the most satisfactory results. The child’s foot is done up in a small and light plaster-of-Paris bandage reaching from the toes to just below the knee, or in severe cases even above the knee. This bandage is ordinarily left on for some weeks, although it may be cut down the front and furnished with lacings to be removed just as is a plaster jacket. It is preferable, however, for it to be left on for some weeks at a time, unless in exceptional cases. This fixation splint is