CHONDROMA. 251 ces in external appearance it appears to me wiser to admit the warty or papillary variety as a keloid growth. The typical keloid, however, is a hard, smooth tumor, and is usually red or pink in color, although it is said occasionally to be white. It is usually an oblong patch, slightly elevated above the surface of the skin, with extensions at various points stretching out over the neighboring skin like claws, and from these projections it gets its name. This form of the growth is rare, how- ever, Hebra having seen it only once in two thousand cases of skin dis- ease. Verneuil has reported a case occurring in the conjunctiva, so that keloid may occur even in mucous membrane. Microscopical examination of these tumors reveals a true cicatricial structure, made up of bundles of interlacing fibres, running horizon- tally just below the upper surface of the corium. In false keloid, just as in any ordinary cicatrix, there is a complete absence of papillae, for these are seldom if ever reproduced when once destroyed; but in the true keloid the papillae are usually perfect, the growth infiltrating the corium beneath them, and only rarely destroying them, probably by the mechanical effects of its pressure. The blood-vessels in and even be- yond the growth show certain changes, being surrounded with round cells which infiltrate the adventitia, while many fusiform cells are also found surrounding the vessels. The glands of the skin are destroyed in both varieties of keloid. Warren says that the keloid begins by a growth of round cells in the adventitia of the arterioles of the corium, these cells afterwards becoming fusiform in shape, and finally developing into fibres which coalesce and form the tumors. One theory of the path- ology of these growths is that they are really myomatous, the fibres- being bundles of unstriped muscle fibres. Although keloid is usually easy of diagnosis, sarcoma may some- times be mistaken for it, as is illustrated by the cases reported by Taylor and Jacobson. The treatment of these scar-tumors is very difficult. When small they may be excised with a wide margin of healthy tissue, and a cui’e will usually result. Skin-grafting by Thiersch's method might be tried after excision of the larger growths, as there appears to be very little tendency to contraction or hypertrophy after such grafting. One of the most successful methods of treatment is cross-barred scarification, as suggested by Vidal. Local anaesthesia is employed, and with a sharp knife parallel incisions are made, extending through the entire thickness of the growth and a short distance beyond its edges on every side, and these incisions are then crossed by a second similar series at right angles or obliquely. The rationale of this treatment would ap- pear to be the encouragement of a new formation of blood-vessels in the granulation tissue which fills up the little cuts, and the absorp- tion of the surrounding fibrous tissue, just as it melts away in the indurated edges and bases of chronic ulcers similarly treated by “cross- hatching” incisions. Chondroma. Very interesting is the mdependent observation by Virchow and by Bland Sutton of the frequent association of encliondroma with rickets, and the explanation that this association is due to irregular ossification of