1022 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. ed surface is practised. Two assistants, each having two tenacula, hold the parts to he incised tense, one tenaculum being inserted into the perineum close to its margin, one on each side near the lower part of the nympha, and the fourth upon the middle of the posterior vaginal wall, at about the height to which the splitting of the recto- vaginal wall is to reach. The operator then inserts the point of the scalpel near one of the lateral tenacula, and makes an incision half- circumscribing the vulval orifice, when the flap thus begun is dissected up until the surface represented in Fig. 1767 is presented, the upper tenaculum during the dissection having been changed so as to be in- serted into the apex of the upper triangular portion. The next step is the insertion of three silkworm-gut sutures so as to include the middle third of the raw surface; these sutures, tied and cut off short, change the surface, hitherto quadrangular, into two triangles lying base to base, a condition represented in Fig. 1768. The next step is to unite the sides of the upper triangle by means of a continuous catgut suture, the result being represented in Fig. 1769. Finally, external sutures of silkworm gut bring the surface of the inferior triangle together, and close the perineum. (Fig. 1770.) It has been complained of Tait’s operation that it does not remedy a rectocele-—it might with equal propriety be asserted that it does not cure hemorrhoids—but this objection cannot be justly made to Winckel’s method. Martin’s Elytrorrhaphia and Perineauxesis. In this, as in most other plastic operations upon the female genital organs, Dr. A. Martin, of Berlin, uses catgut exclusively; this has been made aseptic by eight days’ soaking in corrosive sublimate and water, 1-1000, and is kept ready for use in a mixture of oil of juniper and alcohol, one of the former to two of the latter.1 The operation consists of a double lateral posterior elytrorrhaphia, lessening the diameter of the vagina, and of a perineal operation, in- creasing the size of the perineum. The subjoined illustration shows the denuded surfaces; but it is to be remembered that the lateral operations upon the vagina are first done, and that the denuded sur- faces are stitched on each side so as to be completely closed and covered, before the final operation. (Fig. 1771.) It will be observed that, in the lateral elytrorrhaphies, the column which from embryological fact is richest in fibrous tissue, and there- fore strongest, is left untouched in the denudation. Further, with the suturing on either side, the column is necessarily shortened. In performing perineauxesis the first step is a transverse incision just at the lower end of the seams made by the elytrorrhaphies; from the ends of these, an incision is made on each side to the under margin of the nympha (/?—1, Fig. 1771). Next an incision is made around the margin of the introitus, its ends uniting with those of the lateral incisions (a b c d to I). The tissue included in these incisions is denuded. The con- 1 Martin states (Frauenkrankheiten, dritte Auflage, 1893) that silk is used only in excep- tional cases, though constautly for suture of the abdominal wound aud ventrofixation, and that in vesico-vaginal fistuloe he employs silver wire.