842 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. Operation for Cancer of the Breast. The radical treatment for permanent cure of cancer of the breast is aseptic excision of the entire seat of disease. Palliative treatment is devoted to the relief of painful or ulcerating tumors, and to the pro- longation of life. Early and thorough extirpations are indicated in all tumors of the breast which are malignant, doubtful, or benign but troublesome (White). In some cases continuous pain justifies exploration, even if no tumor can be detected. One instance of this kind occurred in my own experience three years ago. A woman of forty complained of persist- ent pain in the breast. Nothing abnormal could be felt. Exploration followed by microscopic examination proved the presence of a small focus of cancer, which was removed with the infected axillary glands. There has been no recurrence up to the present time. The variety of cancer influences the question of interference. In far advanced cases of the more malignant and rapidly growing forms, one is not justified in operating; while in cancer of moderate malignancy extirpation may he attempted even in the face of the greatest diffi- culties. Cancer, especially of themedullary variety, which has involved rapidly the whole breast, and presumably the peri-mammary tissues, particu- larly the skin, and which is complicated by obvious axillary infection, does not justify extensive and dangerous dissection nor the hope of permanent cure. Large masses in the axilla, with swelling of the arm, or enlarged supra-clavicular glands; internal symptoms with progres- sive amemia; incurable diseases of other organs—all contra-indicate radical operations. The field of operation must be prepared with the greatest care, for upon this precaution as much as upon the sterilization of the instru- ments and hands depends the immediate result. Preparation should be begun twenty-four hours before the operation by shaving the skin, including the axilla. The parts must next be scrubbed thoroughly with a brush in soap and water. A green soap poultice should then be applied, followed by washing in ether or alcohol. Finally a moist corrosive sublimate dressing (1-3000) should be put on and kept in position till the moment of operation, when it is well to wash in a fresh sublimate solution (1-1000). The field, having been irrigated with boiled water and dried with a sterilized towel, is then ready for incision. Authorities of the present day are practically unanimous in declaring that next to very early operative interference a permanent cure de- pends upon the thoroughness of the operation. The first consideration, therefore, is so to plan the incision that every vestige of the tumor may be extirpated without regard to the easy approximation of the skin. The closure of the wound thus made must be regarded from the outset as a minor consideration, to be met according to the circum- stances of the case. If the enormous and deforming wounds neces- sary for the removal of an extensive local recurrence had been made in the first instance, it is fair to say that recurrence might have been avoided.