741 HARELIP. Harelip. This deformity is due to imper- fect closure of the embryonic fis- sures of the foetus. The congen- ital defect may be so extensive as Af?sravated Hare&i^ufOT(wyeth.)diI,gInt0 Eyeand to include the cheek and head as well as the lip. Very rarely a similar cleft is found in the lower lip; and occasionally the cleft in the upper lip is in the median line. The recent monograph of Rose gives much valuable information about the causation and varieties of this malformation. The correction of the deformity in harelip involves much more than the mere closure of the cleft. The lip, even in simple cases, is usually imperfectly developed on the side of the cleft away from the middle line. This is fully appreciable when the lips are closed, and should be noticed in every case before the incisions are made. The operator must lengthen this side of the lip and elevate the nasal ala, flattening of which ordinarily ac- companies the labial defect. There must be a perfect adaptation of the skin and mu- cous membrane at the junction of these structures on the edge of the lip, and no vermilion mucous membrane should be per- Congenitai Fissure of Lower Lip and mitted to remain along the cutaneous scar ctse. ^BryantjF'ssule' Thorudike’s left by the operation. Error is sometimes committed by not freeing the lip thoroughly from the upper jaw. The first step should consist in dividing the mucous membrane between the lip and gum, and paring the tissues loose on both sides of the median line. This detachment may at times go as high as the infra-orbital foramen before the tension has been sufficiently relieved. cranial neurectomy only has been done. Mr. Rose has operated by the basal method on at least six cases, with one death, and Andrews and others have taken this route. Horsley’s1 method of reaching the gan- glion and the emerging nerve-trunks by opening the dura mater and exposing the temporo-sphenoidal lobe is a more serious operation than Hartley’s modification. One of Rose’s patients had been free from pain for nearly two years after re- moval of the ganglion, and was still well when the report was made. A recent survey of the litera- ture of the subject shows 21 cases operated upon by the basal route, with 3 deaths, and 20 cases oper- ated upon by the temporal route, with 2 deaths.2 1 British Medical Journal, Dec. 5, 1891. 2 See the author’s article in Dennis’s “System of Surgery, ” vol. ii., p. 914.