396 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF BURS.E. only permissible when pus is forming, before an opening is made by nature or art, after which moist antiseptic gauze, covered with rubber tissue or oiled silk, should be substituted. When pus has formed—best determined in all doubtful cases by an aseptic exploring needle or by the aspirator—prompt incision with the strictest aseptic precautions should be adopted, followed by moist antiseptic dressings. The warn- ing given against incisions into inflamed but not suppurating tis- sues still holds good unless strict asepsis be maintained, because sep- tic infection—local or general—is apt promptly to occur, owing to the diminished resistance of the tissues to microbes, but with the proper precautions no such objection exists, and, on the contrary, incisions will in proper cases relieve, not add to, the existing trouble. Sinuses will be of infrequent occurrence under antiseptic treat- ment, but when present should be laid open with the knife where their anatomical relations do not forbid, their tracks being thoroughly cu- retted, and asepsis secured by solutions of zinc chloride (grs. x to f §i) or mercuric chloride (1-500) ;* when possible, deep or “etage” suturing should be employed, complete rest being insured by a plaster-of-Paris bandage fixing the whole limb; if all these measures cannot be adopted, curetting, disinfection as just advised, and the use of a gradually shortened drainage-tube, its track being effaced by proper compresses, should be tried. The oakum seton formerly advised should be dis- carded, curetting being preferable. Treatment of Subacute and Chronic Bursitis.—The only change requisite is a condemnation of any method of employing the seton, ex- cept that formed of catgut threads with the strictest of aseptic precau- tions; horsehair may also be used, but, being non-absorbable, must be removed as soon as it is believed that no more fluid will be effused. Incised and Punctured Wounds of Burs,®. With aseptic precautions these may heal without causing oblitera- tion of the bursal cavities. Rest, drainage if deemed requisite, and effective antisepsis are imperative. If either primary or secondary in- fection occurs, an attempt should be made, under amesthesia if deemed necessary, to render the parts aseptic, due provision being made by ap- propriate incisions for the escape of pent-up fluids or those likely to be subsequently effused. When the injured bursa is a deep-seated one, it so often communicates with its related joint that it is safer to con- sider this to be the fact in any given instance, and to treat the case as one of wounded joint. While all surgeons recognize the evils of the un- necessary use of drainage, still, in the injuries under consideration, the chance of the subsequent infection of an important joint through the medium of a communicating bursa is so great, that after thorough dis- infection I certainly think that capillary or in doubtful cases tube drainage is indicated, with absolute fixation of the articulation by suit- able splints, or preferably by a plaster-of-Paris bandage. Subsequently, if the joint unquestionably becomes involved, free antiseptic incisioDs, 1 If large surfaces are involved, all remainders of sucli strong solutions should be freely washed away with sterilized water.