INFLAMMATION. 20 ported by it in the direction in which it is travelling, and therefore come, as do the infusoria spoken of above, from the positive to the negative pole; but Yerworn thinks that in this case the corpuscles travel in a straight line, that they do not arrange themselves so that their antero- posterior axis is in the direction of the current, and that their progress is slow. On the other hand, if the infusoria be anaesthetized by chloro- form or ether, the same current that before produced a manifest gal- vanotropic effect no longer does so, and it is therefore evident that the rapid movement of orientation observed is a manifestation of sensibility. Dineur 1 repeated the latter experiment upon a number of infusoria, and observed the existence of the galvanotropic effect, notably in the paramoecium, and especially in the rassula, but found that he was obliged to use a current with sufficient electromotive force to produce a rapid and very apparent electrolysis. If the current was not sufficiently energetic to develop bubbles of gas, the galvanotropism was not mani- fest, and he therefore considers that Verworn must have employed cur- rents sufficiently strong to decompose the fluids containing the infusoria, and able therefore to influence them chemically. In such a problem, it is difficult to separate the part played by true galvanotropism from that produced by chemiotaxis. It is known that the inferior organisms react to changes in the chemical constituents of the fluid in which they move, and this kind of sensibility, studied by Pfeffer2and Massart,3 has received the name of positive or negative chemiotaxis, according as the infusoria observed are attracted or repelled. The only point that it is desired to make here is that in order to be considered due exclusively to galvanotropism, the orientation and displacement of the infusoria toward the negative pole observed by Verworn must be also produced by non-electro lytic currents. New experiments, with a more feeble electromotive force, must be made to illustrate this point.4 The fact that leucocytes, considered as free cells or as independent organ- isms, possess an irritability analogous to that of monocellular beings, lias been completely demonstrated, especially so far as concerns their tactile sensibility, or chemiotactic power. The tactile sensibility of the leucocytes described by Ranvier5 has been recently experimented upon by Massart and Bordet,6 their method of procedure being as follows: A drop of lymph is placed on a large cover- ing-glass, and this is inverted and placed over a cell in a piece of heavy plate glass covered with water, so that the fluid is entirely prevented from evaporating. At the end of a little time, the leucocytes are mostly collected on the lower surface of the cover-glass, and on the free surface of the suspended drop, some only remaining in the middle of the drop. According to the situation that they occupy the leucocytes have different forms; the cells that are in contact with the glass have peculiar shapes, presenting certain fine prolongations by means of which they fasten themselves to the lower surface of the glass, as if with tentacles. They have been seen spread out in such a way on the lower surface of the glass as to disappear almost completely, so that they could no longer be detected except by the eyes of the expeiimenter which had followed 1 Ann. de la Soc. Roy. des Sciences Med. de Bruxelles, t. i. No. 1, 1892. - Arb. a. d. hot. Inst. z. Tubingen, Bd. i. S. 363 ; Unters. a. d. hot. Inst. z. Tubingen, Bd. ii., 1888. 3 Archives de Biologie, 1889. 4 Dineur. loc. cit. 5 Treatise upon Histology. 0 Journal de la Societe Royale de Medecine de Bruxelles, 1890.