134 HYDROPHOBIA. At 1 p.m. I took Dr. Melchert to see the patient, and found the spasm in- creased, with aggravation of ail his sufferings. We resorted to inhalations of nitrite of amyl in doses of 15 drops every five or ten minutes for more than an hour, the boy being held by his father, but it had no perceptible influence upon the irregular movements. His powers seemed to become exhausted by the violence of the paroxysms, and his pulse became so frequent and feeble that it could not be counted at the wrist. He died at 3.30 p.m., less than twenty-four hours from the onset of the disease. It may be a matter of some interest in studying' the surroundings of this case, to give the thermometric record of the day. The tempera- ture of the atmosphere at 7 A.M. was 66° F.; at 2 P.M., 74° F., and at 9.15 p.m., 75° F. It was a clear and sunny day. The access of the disease was not therefore induced by anything unfavorable in the state of the weather. The second case was brought to me from the country in the person of a mulatto boy of 16 years, with the history that he had been bitten about a month previ- ously by a mad dog, and that he had been complaining of his head for twenty- four hours. He was then suffering from general disturbance of the nervous sys- tem, with inability to swallow Quids. There was not such marked spasm of the muscles as in the boy whose case has been reported above, yet the symptoms ran such a course as to impress me with the characteristic features of hydrophobia. He was given ten grains of calomel, followed in two hours by a tablespoonful of castor-oil and a teaspoonful of oil of turpentine. After the bowels bad been moved freely, a hypodermic injection of sulphate of morphine, gr. and sulphate of atro- pine, gr. y^was administered. Frictions with oil of turpentine were employed over the spine and epigastric region at frequent intervals. Carbonate of ammonium and camphor water were given internally, while enemata of lac assafcetidte were liber- ally used. My treatment was intended to be conservative, so that no harm should come from the remedies employed, and that the charge of killing the patient might not hold against me. It has been claimed that the desperate nature of this disease warrants the use of desperate means, and the most violent measures have in some instances been resorted to, even to the infliction of bites from ven- omous serpents, under the supposition of some antidotal influence. In this case, however, I determined to avoid all crucial medication, and left the patient to succumb to the violence of his disease rather than to the toxic properties of drugs. He died from exhaustion on the second day of treatment, being the third after his attack, and thirty-three days after he had been bitten by the rabid dog. Here it may be noted that no attempt was made to cauterize the wounds, and that the period of incubation was only about one-half that observed in the case in which the nitric acid had been ordered, but per- haps not properly applied by the father of the boy. The third case which came under my observation was that of a young white man, about twenty years old, who had felt uncomfortable for a day and a night before I was called, nervous twitching with occasional spasmodic contraction of the limbs having supervened during the morning. There were periodic exacerba- tions of a convulsive nature observed during my first visit, and upon inquiry, it was learned that the patient had been bitten on the ankle by a small dog about two years previously. Neither he nor his friends had suspected at the time that this was a rabid animal, and they did not know what had become of it. The difficulty in swallowing water being notable, I made out the case as one of hydrophobia, and determined forest my treatment upon frictions along the spine with camphorated oil of .turpentine, and upon inhalations of ether, the use of which upon a towel, held over his mouth and nose, gave relief to the patient.