700 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. remain straight. The muscles often act normally when the fellow-eye is closed, proving that there is no actual loss of power. These eyes will in some cases gradually recover their normal positions as the patients grow older, while in other cases the deviation may increase to the extreme limit. Tenotomy of the contracted muscle may not only fail to correct the defect, hut may cause the eye to deviate equall}T in the opposite direction, wherefore it is probable that advancement will accomplish more in such cases than tenotomy; or it may be advisable to perform the operations on the opposing muscles, either at the same time or separately. When operative interference has been decided upon according to the characteristics of the case, we must decide whether it shall be tenotomy, advancement, or both. In cases of insufficiency, some surgeons (von Graefe, Abadie, and G. T. Stevens) have advocated partial or graduated tenotomies. When hyperphoria is present it is claimed that graduated tenotomies accomplish a great deal, for there is often much discomfort from even one or two degrees of deviation. Dr. G. T. Stevens, of New York, lias devised special forceps and scissors for this mode of procedure. Cocaine is of inestimable value in this class of operations, as enabling the results to be seen as the operation progresses. Tenotomy is still performed after the method described by Arlt. and by the so-called subconjunctival method. The advocates of the latter claim that it is attended by less exposure of the subconjunctival tissues and less likelihood of the caruncle sinking. Advancement is performed by making a vertical incision over the tendon, which is then raised upon a hook. A suture with two needles is now passed through the muscle just back of its junction with the tendon, when the latter is divided, and the conjunctiva is dissected from the first incision to the corneo-scleral junction. The muscle is next drawn forward and fixed in its new position by passing the needles through the conjunctival and episcleral tissues, and bringing them out, one above and one below the cornea. The ends are tied, both eyes are dressed antiseptically and closed by a bandage, and the patient is kept cpiiet in bed for several days. The sutures should be left in as long as they will hold without creating too much irritation. Prince’s 'pulley operation is an ingenious method of advancing a muscle. A suture is introduced vertically, near the corneo-scleral junction, through the conjunctival and episcleral tissues, and the ends are tied, making a stationary loop. The muscle is next pierced hack of the tendon by a needle carrying a suture, which after emerging is carried forward through the loop. The ends are then tied, and the advancement is regulated by tightening or loosening the thread. The objections to muscle advancement are the liability of the sutures tearing out and rendering the operation useless, the amount of irritation that is set up by the operation, the dianger of wounding the ciliary body if the needles pass too deeply into the sclera, and the deformity that is caused by “ bunching” the tissues. Landolt maintains that only by advancement can the normal movements be retained, and he rarely operates for insufficiency. He performs tenot- omy with advancement upon the worse cases of strabismus, and de- clares that sutures do not tear out when introduced into the episcleral tissue.