LEPROSY—CONNECTIVE-TISSUE CANCER—MADURA FOOT. 335 the abdominal cavities of guinea-pigs, have given rise to general tuber- culosis in these animals. Morbid Anatomy.—Koch has succeeded in finding bacilli in lupoid tissue, which cannot be differentiated from the bacilli of tuberculosis. The reaction following the injection of tuberculin in lupus patients also points to lupus as being a cutaneous tuberculosis. Treatment.—Applications of salicylic acicl, in the strength of 10 to 20 per cent., on plaster, are a good remedy; creasote is advantageously combined with the acid, equal parts of each, for the purpose of decreas- ing the pain. Bichloride of mercury in solution, gr. 1 to 2 to the ounce, or in ointment form, of the same strength, is reported to act very beneficially. Injections of tuberculin have proved too dangerous, and the results obtained too temporary, to justify their use. Dr. George Fox removes small nodules with dental burrs and the excavator. Scarification with the multiple scarifier is a very good method of treatment. A multiple scarifier devised by Van Harlingen 1 will be found ver}r useful in this operation. The incisions arfe to be made longitudinally and transversely and should extend through the diseased area to the sound tissues. Besnier advocates the use of electro- cautery knives of different sizes. Electrolysis in multiple punctures, or by means of a metallic button, may also be employed. Leprosy. In the treatment of leprosy segregation and isolation of the affected individuals must be rigidly enforced in order to prevent the spread of the disease. Connective-Tissue Cancer. This constitutes the so-called cancer en cuirasse of Velpeau; when this condition exists, the chest movements are interfered with and res- piration becomes difficult. Madura Foot. Synonyms: Ulcus grave; Tubercular disease of the foot; Podelcoma ; Mycetoma. Usually only one foot is attacked, and at times only parts of a hand or foot are affected. In very rare cases the shoulders and scro- tum are the seat of the disease. The palmar surface of the finger or thumb, and the plantar surface of the toe or the spaces between the toes, are the locations in which the disease often makes its first appearance. The affection has been attributed to the presence of a splinter or thorn in the foot, or to a slight traumatism; in a number of cases dracunc.ulosis has been observed to have been followed by podelcoma. The possibility of the fungus penetrating through the skin in individuals who are ac- customed to go barefoot in wet, low ground, has been mentioned by 1 Handbook of Skin Diseases, p. 298.