817 OPERATIONS OX THE LUNGS. symptoms of ordinary inflammation may appear; sometimes the pain is of a pulsating character, similar to that caused by abscess in other parts. In cold abscess the percussion note may vary according to the position of the body. The diagnosis in obscure cases may be cleared up by the introduction of a small aspirator or exploring needle. The prognosis is always more favorable than in cases of morbid growth. The acute variety may run its course in three or four days, bursting into the trachea or oesophagus, or may go on for as many weeks. The treatment depends upon the patient’s physical condition. If the abscess points externally, it should be freely opened and drainage pro- vided for. If the pus collection is extensively diffused, as in cold abscess, only a portion should be removed at first, lest the sudden relief from intrathoracic pressure should cause fatal syncope. If the abscess does not point on either side of the sternum, but appears to be involving its substance, the trephine may be employed and the abscess evacuated through the opening. A sufficient number of successful cases have been reported to warrant the procedure. Operations on the Lungs. Undoubtedly the surgery of the lung is still in its infancy. The experimental researches of Gluck, Wills, Willard, and others, have thrown much light upon the subject, showing that large portions of the lung may be removed in certain cases, and that it is not only possi- ble but judicious to attack abscess cavities in the pulmonary tissue. In some forms of abscess, however, surgical interference is inadmissi- ble; nothing could be hoped for in attacking a lung riddled by numerous tubercular cavities, or by multiple gangrenous foci the result of embolic pyaemia. Those cases in which surgery may be and has been attempted with a fair degree of success may be thus classified: (1) Well-defined and circumscribed tubercular cavities; (2) cavities resulting from gan- grene of the lung; (3) cavities caused by the bursting into the lung of a collection of pus or other irritating matter from without; (I) bron- chiectasis resulting from whatever cause, including the presence of a foreign body in the air passages. The subject of operations on the lung is not entirely new to the minds of surgeons, for Barry1 in 1726, and still earlier Baglivi in 1714, advo- cated the opening and draining of pulmonary abscess cavities, saying that the operation might be performed without danger, as adhesions were sure to exist which would tend to shut off the pleural cavity at the point of incision. The medication of tubercular cavities with various antiseptics has been frequently resorted to, the remedy being introduced either through the mouth, or directly, by the medium of a thin canula or hollow needle inserted through the chest-wall. By these procedures little is to be gained except in very small foci which cannot be punctured with any degree of accuracy. Cavities resulting from tuberculous disease, except in rare cases, as following catarrhal pneumonia at or near the 1 A Treatise on a Consumption of the Lungs, p. 217. Dublin, 1726. VOL. VII.—52