SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE HEAD. G42 several deep punctures and evacuating “ an unusual quantity of serum.” Entire recovery followed. The author suggests that either a cyst or the ventricle was punctured. It would seem probable that the latter was the more likely conclusion. McCosh 1 narrates a case in which there was doubtful prior epilepsy. Sub- sequently, at 29 years of age, the patient fell downstairs. This was followed by partial and temporary paralysis of the left arm. Epileptic convulsions ensued, as many as live in the 24 hours, with rapidly increasing weakness and headache. A quarter-inch button of bone was removed over the lateral sinus; no clot was found, but there were evidences of great intracranial pressure, and there was marked bulging of the brain. Punctures in different directions gave no result. Finally, by puncturing the right lateral ventricle fluid was found. An ounce of fluid was drained off in 48 hours, when the canula was removed. At the end of two weeks the patient was out of bed, and in five weeks there was en- tire recovery, with no headache. Markedly increased, acute, intracranial pressure is due commonly to an accumulation of cerebro-spinal fluid in the ventricles, not only from hydrocephalus, but especially from pressure on the aqueduct of Sylvius, chiefly by tumors of the pons or cerebellum. It is of course impossible to expect any cure from the mere evacuation of the pent-up cerebro- spinal fluid, but the relief which was obtained in a case reported by Mills and Hearn2 was so noticeable that, as a palliative measure, it seems en- tirely justifiable. In this case the patient was blind and deaf, and the only means of communicating with him was by tracing German letters on the palm of his hand. His headache was atrocious, so that life was absolutely a burden. At the operation Dr. Hearn tapped the lateral ventricle, withdrawing a large amount of fluid; and though the patient died on the fifth day, yet the relief which he obtained from his intense headache was as justifiably procured by this surgical procedure as it would have been by a hypodermic injection or other medical means. The lessened suffering in my first case, in which a tumor of the cere- bellum was found, was quite marked. Diller3 records also a case of tumor of the pons in which he tapped the ventricle, with relief of pres- sure, although there is no especial statement as to the influence on the suffering of the patient. Instead of draining the cerebro-spinal fluid directly from the ven- tricles by tapping them, Wynter4 proposed to drain it away indirectly by puncturing the membranes of the cord in the lumbar region. He has reported four cases, with temporary improvement, but ending fatally. Quincke 5 has reported ten similar operations for hydroceph- alus, the treatment being combined with pressure on the skull at the same time. One patient was cured. In two cases the result was prob- ably due to the other means employed. In three there was temporary improvement. None of the patients died. Ziemssen 6 has also operated on some cases. Quincke calls attention to the fact that in infants the cord extends to the third lumbar vertebra, and that hence the puncture should be 1 Med. Record, Sept. 16, 1893, p. 376. 2 Phila. Hosp. Reports, vol. i., p. 270, and Proc. Phila. Co. Med. Soc., Dec. 11, 1890. 3 Amer. Journal Med. Sciences. 1892, vol. ii., p. 509. 4 Lancet, 1891, vol. i., p. 931. 5 Berl. klin. Woch., 1891, Nos. 38, 39. 6 Verhandl. d. 12ten Kongress. f. inner. Med., 1893, S. 197.