257 NEUROMA—ANOxEIOMA. Polaillon reports a case in a woman fifty years of age in whom a large myoma developed from the posterior wall of the bladder, and was removed under the supposition that it was uterine, a vesical fistula de- veloping in the pedicle. An autopsy afterward showed that it had really originated from the bladder wall. Gibbons and Parker success- fully removed a myoma from the bladder of a girl eighteen years of age. Myomata are found in the broad and round ligaments of the uterus, both of which contain unstriped muscular fibres, and, very rarely, in the Fallopian tube. When arising from the round ligament, they may grow in the inguinal canal entirely extraperitoneally, and may attain the size of a cocoanut. Neuroma. Virchow long ago made the distinction between true and false neur- omata, the former being composed of a true new-growth of nervous elements, either ganglionic or fibrillar, and the latter comprising those tumors which develop in or on nerves, but consist only of fibrous or other tissues, with no increase, or even with a diminution, of nerve tis- sue. As the latter are usually considered under the head of neuroma, it is necessary to mention them here, although a full description of them has already been given under the head of fibroma, where they properly belong. Tumors composed of true newly formed nerve-fibres are great rarities, and Goldmann even questions whether such growths exist. Even those which are found on the ends of divided nerves, es- pecially in amputation stumps, where nearly all previous observers had claimed to find a growth of nerve-fibres, gave to his more thorough methods of examination a negative result. The older observers had no satisfactory technique for examining these tumors, and while among recent writers Krause has claimed to have demonstrated an increase of nerve-fibres in sarcomatous growths of the nerve, Goldmann denies the validity of his proof, especially since he was unable to positively demon- strate any point of division of the primitive nerve-fibres. If all writers would follow Mr. Butlin’s example and include these tumors under the head of fibroma, the undesirable terminology would soon die out. Even the word neuro-fibroma, applied to these growths is incorrect. They might be called nerve-fibromata, but have no right to the misleading term neuro-fibroma, which implies that they contain newly formed nerve-tissue. Angeioma. Gessler collected 1178 cases of tumors of the blood-vessels, and found that seventy-six per cent, occurred on the head, eleven per cent, on the trunk, nine per cent, on the extremities, and three per cent, on the neck. Of Williams’s 94 cases fifty-five per cent, were found on the head (Gurlt gives sixty-seven per cent.), and twenty-one per cent, on the trunk. The disease is congenital in nearly all cases, as is shown by the fact that of Gessler’s own 213 cases, 139 were in persons under five years VOL. YH.—17