691 GLAUCOMA. means of affording protection from blows, or from pressure accidentally applied. Many operators close both eyes after the operation, while a considerable number close only the one. The operated eye is usually kept closed for a week, and those who close both eyes generally keep the well eye closed for two or three days. When there are no signs of trouble the dressings are often left for three or four days without disturbance, but the comfort of the patient is increased by putting fresh dressings on every day, which can be done without detriment to the eye. It is safer to keep the patient quiet on his back, in bed, for a time after the operation, and if possible to keep him in bed for a day or two; but many surgeons do not confine their patients, nor do they in- sist upon their remaining quiet, and some even allow them to go to their homes after the operation has been finished, and require only that bright light should be excluded from the room. Atropine should be in- stilled on the third or fourth day if it has not been used before, in order to prevent adhesions of the iris to the capsule. Any pain or swelling of the lids should cause an examination of the eye to be made, and if suppuration has commenced in the incision nothing but the actual cautery will avail, and this should be thoroughly applied to every por- tion involved. Afterward atropine and aseptic solutions should be regularly used. Iritis should be treated as heretofore directed. When a secondary operation is necessary for opaque capsule, it should not be performed until all inflammation following the extraction has subsided. The same care should be exercised in cleanliness, and in tearing the capsule the vitreous should be disturbed as little as possible. Glaucoma. Ophthalmologists are still discussing the causes of glaucoma, and many new opinions are constantly being expressed, proving that our knowledge on the subject is still unsettled. It is pretty well decided that changes in the circulation of the eye produce the external appear- ance and the increase of intra-ocular tension. Richey maintains that gout is the true etiological factor of the chronic glaucoma, and “that acute glaucoma is merely a paroxysmal expression of the same affec- tion; that local irritation, or trauma, excites an attack of glaucoma only in the presence of dyscrasia; that operation saves the eye during the paroxysm; that operation serves little purpose in chronic glau- coma, even when it does not, by irritation, hasten the disease process or precipitate a paroxysm; that chronic glaucoma is a neurosis, a progressive atrophy, with the feature of inflammation with deficient power, varied by periods of apparent rest; that correcting and control- ling individual habits, especially in the character and amount of food taken, will do more to preserve vision than operation; and that there may be a possibility of aborting chronic glaucoma, if the tendency to it be recognized at an early date.” Taking into consideration, there- fore, that some constitutional defect or weakness has been the cause of the circulatory changes in the eye which have in turn brought on the glaucomatous attack, it is very necessary that the existence of any dys- crasia should be known, and that it should be treated by the most appropriate methods. When glaucoma supervenes, the operative treat-