220 TUMORS. corded by Bruce and Demarquay appear to be the only authentic in- stances, and with the great frequency of uterine carcinoma it is strange that infection does not occur more often if there is any real danger of its taking place. Budd instances the case of a terrier which, accus- tomed to lick the face of its master who had cancer of the lip, ac- quired and succumbed to cancer of the tongue before the man died. It is easy to see how cases of contagion occurring, as they would be very likely to do, in one family, would furnish evidence apparently in favor of heredity. But is there not some more definite evidence of contagion or infection by direct contact? Many attempts have been made to transplant tumors in animals, and a few in man, but such attempts have almost invari- ably met with failure. Von Eiselsberg succeeded in transplanting tibro-sarcoma from rat to rat, Hanau accomplished the same for carci- noma, and Welir transplanted carcinoma in dogs. Even in these cases it is not certain that the tumors would have continued to grow, for the usual result of such operations has been the shrinking and the final dis- appearance of the mass, although at first it may show some signs of increase. Hahn, in a patient who was suffering from disseminated carcinoma, transplanted three small nodules to a healthy part, when the transplanted tissue healed in and attacked the healthy skin around it, enlarging at the expense of the latter. Von Bergmann says that he has repeated this experiment successfully. Cornil reports two simi- lar instances from the practice of a surgeon who, with excellent reason after such a criminal proceeding, kept his name secret. In one case, while operating for the removal of a sarcomatous breast, he trans- planted a portion of it to the healthy breast of the other side, and after the graft had taken and begun to grow, excised it, the microscopical ex- amination showing the development of a tumor exactly like the parent growth. In another case, the same proceeding was carried out upon a patient suffering from carcinoma, who, however, refused to submit to the second operation, so that no microscopical examination was possible; but there was sufficient clinical evidence that a new tumor had formed. Nicaise saw a sarcoma develop in the abdominal wall at the site of puncture of a sarcomatous uterus, made with a trocar under supposi- tion that it was a cyst; and Schopf has reported recently a case in which two lateral incisions in the healthy tissues of the vulva, made during a vaginal hysterectomy for cancer, became infected with the disease. With these instances of implantation, we can class the numerous cases in which an ulcerating epithelioma has caused an infection of some other part of the body kept in close contact with it. Such in- stances have been noted by Lucke, in the tongue and cheek; by von Bergmann, in the upper from the lower lip; by Hamburger, from one labium minus to the other; by Cripps, on the breast and the adjacent arm; by De Morgan, on the breast and the underlying skin of the side; and by Kaufmann, in the eyelid infected from an ulcer on the back of the hand used to rub it. Similar to these are the cases of pavement epithelioma of the stomach secondary to a primary epithelioma of the mouth, oesophagus, etc., primary epithelioma of the stomach being un- known ; and also the instances of multiple peritoneal carcinoma follow- ing a subperitoneal growth of one of the viscera, likened by Virchow to