INFLAMMATION. 14 of the vascular endothelium, and an exudation with diapedesis, three phenomena which result in an afflux of phagocytes toward the inflamed area. Are the same phenomena present in chronic inflammations, in which the principal role has hitherto been attributed to local changes in the tissues without any notable influence of sanguineous and vascular elements? As illustrating this question, there are studied in detail the processes involved in the formation of a miliary tubercle, as a type of chronic inflammatory change. The view of Baumgarten, which is that generally accepted, that tubercle is the product of a proliferation of fixed local elements due to the presence of the bacillus of tubercu- losis, is rejected. According to this view, the leucocytes and phagocytic corpuscles play only a secondary part in the formation of tubercle; but after describing in detail the development of artificially induced tuber- culosis in the liver of a rabbit, Metchnikoff’s own view of the origin of tubercle is formulated as follows: “A tubercle is made up of a, massing together of phagocytes of a mesodermic origin, that crowd toward the points where the bacilli are found, and englobe them, The phagocytes taking part in the formation of a tubercle are of a mononuclear char- acter. Polynuclear phagocytes take up the bacilli very easily, but soon perish, and with their contained bacteria are destroyed by different varieties of mononuclear phagocytes that are called macrophages. ” The calcification of tubercle is looked upon as the result of an. active secre- tion on the part of giant cells, not as a degenerative process; and in support of this view are offered the details of the effects of inoculation of the gei'bille, a rodent of Algeria, which is very resistant to tuberculosis, and which defends itself in this way. It is admitted, however, that fre- quently the tubercular phagocytes themselves perish and become caseous. This theory of the action of the giant cell in the tubercular process is directly opposed to that supported by Koch and by Weigert, who regard the tubercular giant cell as presenting a state of partial necrosis, which view of the process is one that has been very generally accepted, and seems to be up to the present time that which is best sup- ported.- With regard to serous inflammations, it is shown that generally the serous exudation contains very few phagocytes, and that in this respect it differs from the ordinary varieties of acute and chronic inflammatory processes. Some varieties of serous inflammation are due to the fact that there is a <s negative sensibility” of the leucocytes preventing their passing along with the fluid through the inflamed vessel walls. The exuded fluid in these cases, however, contains a considerable number of bacteria that multiply without hindrance. In another class of cases, as for example diphtheria, serous exudations take place in areas more or less distant from the collections of bacteria, and in these exudations there are no bacteria. The question then arises as to the object of the serous exudation. Some experimenters look upon the process as a means of ridding the organism of its enemies, and believe that the serum possesses a bactericidal power. Metclmikoff objects very vigor- ously to this view, and details a number of experiments in support of his opinions. Phagocytes alone are, he thinks, the agents provided in the organism for the destruction of pathogenic bacteria, but at the same time the fact of the occurrence of serous inflammation has been diffi- cult for him to explain, a difficulty which he meets by saying that at