INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS AND ‘ANEURISM. 350 suppuration of the sac and gangrene of the extremity, both of which oc- currences have been noted not infrequently; and while aseptic ligation of the vessel relieves the operating surgeon from one anxiety, the danger resulting from the other still remains; consequently much attention has been given, of late years, to the removal of the sac. The good results which follow aseptic ligation of a vessel have em- boldened surgeons to try, and the result of experience seems to justify, the extirpation of the aneurismal sac, ligatures being placed on the main vessel at points proximal and distal to the dilatation, the aneurism itself being considered and treated as a tumor to be removed in its en- tirety, leaving a simple connective-tissue wound, which will heal as the wound remaining after the removal of a tumor of any other kind. It is only necessary to look into the records of cases to see how often other- wise successful treatment of an aneurism has been rendered nugatory by the behavior of the sac; the contained blood failing to organize, and so becoming a suppurating focus and entailing the loss of what would otherwise have been a useful limb. I cannot avoid thinking that it is a very great advantage in the surgical treatment of aneurism to ex- tirpate the sac. The fear that the vessel close to the aneurism, both above and below, will not hear ligature, is obviated by aseptic operating; and it is without doubt a fact, that the removal of the tumor, by re- lieving tension in the limb and pressure on the veins, renders the occur- rence of gangrene less likely. An atheromatous artery will unques- tionably resist sepsis and suppuration less well than a healthy artery, but sepsis and suppuration should not occur; hence it is to be expected that a ligature applied very close to the sac, if done in a clean way, will be followed by definitive closure of the vessel. Wherefore it becomes proper in extirpating an aneurism to tie the main vessel close to the sac above and below. If the ligature is applied at a distance, as in the Hunterian method, there occurs, when the pa- tient recovers, an obliteration of the vessel at the point ligated, and also where the aneurism exists, two places some distance apart. By tying the vessel above and below the aneurism, close to the sac, there is de- finitive closure at but one place and not two, and the danger of gan- grene would seem thus to be diminished. Just what vessels may or may not be properly subjected to this ope- ration, we are as yet not in a condition to know, since the operation is of too recent a date for one to speak of it dogmatically, hut so perfect has the result been in my own hands that I am inclined to think it should be made use of wherever possible. There are many difficulties inherent to this treatment—-the irreg- ularity of the sac, close adhesion of adjacent and important structures, irregular protrusion of the sac in one direction or another, making its removal not easy—-which at first sight may seem to militate against it; hut these difficulties are physical ones, and the skill of the surgeon will overcome them. No other insuperable objections at this time present themselves to my mind. Should a portion of the sac be indissolubly united and incorporated with important structures, and so incapable of removal, it might have to be left, but I imagine that such a condition of affairs would be very exceptional. Should a dilatation of the artery exist in that part of the vessel where large branches are given off, it would be proper, in removing the sac, that those branches should