981 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE AND TUNICA VAGINALIS. pear with such frequency as one -would expect were the proportion as great as that which Wechselmann gives. Varicocele.—Varicocele is usually an affection of youth and young adult life, and inasmuch as it then makes its appearance it has been considered an acquired affection. Its immediate cause has been sought in derangements of the venous system,, such as are observed in hemor- rhoids. That this is a correct view is certainly doubtful, and it is quite probable that some congenital peculiarity exists which favors the pro- duction of the malady. McGraw 1 believes that an interference with the proper performance of the function of the cremaster muscle is an important factor. He claims that the function of this muscle is to empty the spermatic veins, and that it does this by contractions caused by the stimulus or irrita- tion produced by their overdistention. Lydston 2 strongly insists upon the dependence of varicocele upon al- terations of the condition of the general venous system, and gives the case of a man, aged thirty-nine years, who applied for the relief of a double varicocele. The abdominal veins and also those of the legs were remarkably enlarged. He also had hemorrhoids. His mother had been a delicate woman, and had suffered from severe varices of the ex- tremities. She had died of pernicious antemia. One of his brothers was troubled with severe nsevi located on the inner aspect of the thigh. Tillmanns3 regards a congenital predisposition to the disease as an important element, and Treves4 says that the congenital origin of the affection is generally allowed. The difference in their mode of empty- ing of the two spermatic veins; the fact, as pointed out by Spencer, of the larger size of the vein of the left side; and the passage of the left spermatic vein behind the sigmoid flexure, are congenital and not ac- quired peculiarities; and that disease of the veins themselves maybe hereditary is shown by Lydston’s case above quoted. The necessity of operation in this disease is sometimes overrated, and its bad effects magnified. While Curling thought that softening and atrophy of the testicle sometimes occurred, the true view is expressed by Mr. Jacobson 5 when he says that “save in varicoceles of very large size and rapid formation, serious atrophy is not to he feared.” He also cautions against mistaking simple softness for atrophy, and Keetly G says that even an atrophied testicle is not necessarily functionless. The infrequency of the affection in mature adults is in itself a pro- test against indiscriminate operating, and demonstrates the ability of nature itself to cure the majority of cases. Operation.—There are three operations usually practised, viz.: ex- cision of the redundant scrotum, subcutaneous ligation, and ligation by open incision ; my preference is for the last-named method as a rule. Mr. Bennett,1 while advocating the open method of excision of the veins, characterizes excision of the scrotum, which is a very old opera- tion revived more recently by Dr. Henry, as useless in practice and un- sound in theory. Reginald Harrison8 also does not advise it, hut 1 Journal of the American Medical Association, vol. xix., 1892, p. 193. 2 Medical News, Nov. 26, 1892. 3 Lehrbuch der speciellen Chirurgie, Bd. ii., S. 345. 4 Operative Surgery, vol. ii., p. 635. 6 Op. cit., p. 525. 6 British Medical Journal, 1894, vol. i., p. 860. 1 Lancet, 1889, vol. i., p. 265. 8 Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs, p. 536.