165 ULCERS. or poultices have been continued for a long time, and is apt to occur in patients whose general health is defective. Treatment.—In this form of ulcer the application of a 20-grain solution of nitrate of silver, or of a 20-grain solution of carbolate of zinc, is often followed by a change in the character of the granulations. If, however, these project much above the surface of the ulcer, they should be freely touched with the solid stick of nitrate of silver, and after this boric-acid ointment may be applied on lint, with a compress of cotton and the support of a bandage. At the same time tonic reme- dies should be administered to correct the anaemic condition of the patient which often coexists. As soon as the granulations assume a healthy appearance, the treatment should be that of a healthy ulcer. Irritable Ulcer.—This form of ulcer differs from the healthy ulcer in the fact that the granulations covering its surface are smaller and redder than those seen in the’ latter, while at the same time the ulcer is the seat of intense burning pain. Treatment.—The treatment consists in touching the surface of the ulcer with a 5 or 10 grain solution of nitrate of silver, dusting it with iodoform or aristol, and applying over the granulations a piece of lint spread with boric-acid oint- ment, a pad of sterilized cotton, and a bandage. As a depressed condition of health is often asso- ciated with this form of ulcer, tonics should be employed in con- nection with the local treatment. Varicose Ulcer.—The treat- ment of ulcers dependent upon or coexisting with a varicose condition of the veins, consists in the application of a stimulat- ing solution of nitrate of silver, 5 or 10 grains to the fluidounce, with a dressing of boric-acid ointment and a pad of gauze or cotton. This dressing should be combined with support of the venous circulation of the part, which is accomplished by the use of a firmly applied muslin or elastic bandage. Warty Ulcer of Cicatrices. —This is a very persistent form of ulcer, which is sometimes known as the warty ulcer of Marjolin, and which occurs in wounds which have only partly cicatrized, or which have broken down again after cicatrization. Some of the ulcers are non-malignant, being Fig. 1593. Warty ulcer of leg.