RACHITIS. 154 should be diluted to about the percentage which obtains in human milk. It is not enough to supply fat alone, if proteid and salts are likewise deficient. ” The room occupied by the patient should be at about 70° F., of uniform warmth, and not exposed to draughts of air. The garments worn should usually be of woollen, thin and light in the summer, heavier and warm in the winter. Sponging and bathing with water at a temperature of 80° for young children, and from 70° to 75° for older children, the process occupying only a few minutes, and with precautions to avoid taking cold, are useful means of invigorating the system. A child with rachi- tis should be often in the open air when the weather permits, with pre- cautions always to prevent chilling of the extremities. Medicinal Treatment.—Medicines which aid the digestion and assim- ilation of properly selected foods, are sometimes useful. Irritability of the stomach, imperfectly digested stools, flatulence, colicky pains, etc., indicate faulty digestion, which may be improved by pepsin given with each feeding. Tonic remedies designed to improve the appetite and digestion, of a kind suitable for the age and condition of the patient, are often useful. In amemia one of the readily assimilated prepara- tions of iron should be given. The complications which are so common require special treatment. The laryngismus stridulus, eclampsia, and tetany should be promptly treated. The bronchial catarrh to which rachitic infants are liable may be best treated by remedies like the following:— R Ammon, chloridi, . . . . . . . • 3 i- Syr. tolutan., . . . . . . . . . . f 3 ij. M. Dose, 15 drops every hour or two hours to an infant of from six to ten months. R Ammon, chloridi, [ -- 7 Ferri et amnion, citratis, ) c c Syrupi, . . . . . . . . . . f § i. Aquae, . . . . f § iij. 51. Give one teaspoonful from every two to every four hours to a child of one year. Some of the rachitic cases, with protracted bronchial catarrh, espe- cially those who also exhibit scrofula, may be most relieved by the syrup of the iodide of iron and cod-liver oil administered three times daily, with the inhalation of moist air containing the turpentine vapor. In the protracted intestinal catarrh of rachitic infants, I have ob- served the best results, as far as medicine is concerned, from the follow- ing prescription:— Subnitrate of bismuth, 3 1 j. to iij. Essence of pepsin (Fairchild’s), . . . . . § i. Distilled water, . . . . . . . . . f 3 ii j. Shake the bottle ; give from half a teaspoonful to one teaspoonful, according to the age, every two hours. But a remedy is needed which will act promptly in the cure of rachi- tis, so as to prevent the evil consequences which its continuance is sure to produce. It is the opinion of many of the best clinical observers, who have had ample experience, that this has been discovered in the daily use of minute doses of phosphorus. Wegner fed young and growing animals (rabbits and fowls), for months, with small, lion-poisonous, and easily assimilated doses of phosphorus, with the result, he believes, of expediting ossification