271 MIXED TUMORS. to submit to earlier operation. For this form of malignant disease, however, we have another method of treatment which promises well, and that is the inoculation with erysipelas or its bacterial micro- organisms, or the injection of their sterilized cultures. Following the experiments of Fehleisen after he had separated the streptococcus of erysipelas, in which he inoculated patients suffering from malignant disease with erysipelas by means of pure cultures of the germ; and in view of the cases collected by Bruns, of erysipelatous infection accidentally occurring in such patients and producing perma- nent cures; but especially stimulated by Bull, who had observed such a case in his own practice, Coley began making inoculations of pure cul- tures in advanced cases of malignant disease. Spronck had meanwhile been working on the same lines. Afterward, instead of inoculating the cultures, injections were made with the toxic products of these cultures, sterilized by heat or by other methods. Coley sums up the results of all the cases treated by these plans as follows: Carcinoma, 20 cases, 3 permanent cures; sarcoma, 19 cases, 8 permanently cured—the propor- tion of cures therefore being respectively 15 and 42 per cent. The pa- tients who were not cured were many of them improved, their lives lengthened, and their sufferings diminished, for it is to be noted that the injections, although often themselves painful, appeared to lessen the pain of rapidly growing tumors. In the whole list of 39 cases there were 3 deaths, but only 1 from intentionally inoculated erysipe- las, and the new method of using the toxic products appears to be prac- tically free from danger to life. Taking by themselves the cases of in- oculation in sarcoma, we find 8 cases with 3 cures, or over one-third, a result which is very remarkable when it is considered that the treat- ment has only been employed in hopelessly inoperable cases; it should be observed, however, that the results obtained by others are not so good as those claimed by Coley, to whose recent papers I must refer for the details of this method of treatment. Mixed Tumors. In this class I would place those composite tumors of the parotid and other regions in which a large number of different tissues, both homol- ogous and heterologous, are found. These tumors are very closely allied to the sarcomata, although in some specimens it is impossible to find any truly sarcomatous elements, and although the tumors are dis- tinguished by their slow and benign course they should undoubtedly be considered as sarcomata from a pathological point of view. In these tu- mors are found fibrous, myxomatous, fatty, and cartilaginous tissues, each portion perfect in its structure, and all closely intermixed. Besides these benign portions there will be intermediate areas, containing cells in rows, tubes, and even alveoli, cells whose origin in some cases is clearly from the endothelium (lymph spaces, perivascular channels, even the endothelium of blood and lymph vessels), and in other cases is doubt- ful, while in some the tissue strongly resembles epithelium and is held by some authorities to be of this type. It would appear, however, that the view which considers all these cells as of endothelial origin agrees better with the undoubted connective-tissue origin of the rest of the