ACCIDENTS OF ANAESTHESIA. 181 zation of the heart and of the phrenic nerves, and the injection of ether in ether narcosis, are unscientific and deserve condemnation.1 Epileptic Seizures.—Nothing can be done during such seizures ex- cept to protect the patient’s tongue, and restrain him from doing him- self an injury. After-Effects of Anesthesia.-—Temperature.—This is appreciably lowered by etherization, and hence it is advisable to supply artificial .heat and to keep the patient well covered. Nausea and Vomiting.—These conditions often prove troublesome, and sometimes intractable. No specific treatment has as yet been de- vised, but the following measures have been found most useful. The patient should maintain the recumbent position and abstain from food for three or four hours after anaesthesia. Hot water in teaspoonful doses is frequently useful. Small quantities of ice, and also iced cham- pagne, are quite generally used. Ice with small doses of aconite is advised by Hare.2 Dr. Ochsner, of Chicago, has had nearly uniform success in controlling vomiting after anaesthesia by administering an ounce of castor oil in the foam of ale. It is important to give only the foam of the ale, the carbonic acid gas of which probably acts as a local anaesthetic until the oil removes the mucus from the stomach. Sina- pisms applied over the epigastric region are sometimes beneficial. In plethoric, bilious persons, small doses of calomel are occasionally useful. Nausea alone can be relieved by minim doses of tincture of nux vomica, given in hot water every ten minutes.3 Britton4 recommends four or five drops of spirit of chloroform, witli two or three drops of the vinegar of opium, as the most efficient remedy in ether nausea. Hiccough.—This may be relieved by an infusion of mustard (3i. added to f 3iv. of boiling water) taken in teaspoonful doses.5 Mor- phine hypodermically is also useful. Hysteria.—Hysterical seizures may occur, but are of short duration and do not require treatment. Insanity.—Various forms of insanity may follow anaesthesia in pre- disposed persons,6 and should be treated upon general principles. I had once three cases within a single month, in which insanity developed after anaesthesia for herniotomy, on the fourteeenth, twelfth, and fourth days respectively. The last two cases recovered under general treatment, and the first underwent improvement. Jaundice.—This condition occasionally follows cbloroformization, and should be treated as catarrhal jaundice. Albuminuria and Glycosuria.—These conditions may follow both ether and chloroform anaesthesia, and while usually temporary after the latter, they may prove serious when caused by the former, and should be treated upon general principles. 'Hare, Practical Therapeutics ; Buxton, Anaesthetics; Babroff, Kirurgitcheskaia Latopis, 1891 ; Annual of Universal Med. Sciences, 1893. 2 Practical Therapeutics. 3 Buxton, Anaesthetics. 4 Annual of Universal Med. Sciences, 1892. 5 Buxton, Anaesthetics. 6 Savage, Brit. Med. Journal, 1887; Bull, Annual of Univ. Med. Sciences. 1888; Bro- phy, ibid., 1888; Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, 1889; American Journal of Med. Sciences, 1890.