70 WOUNDS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. or other aseptic material. Jt has been suggested to cover that part of the dressing which corresponds to the wound, in cases in which we anticipate much oozing, with rubber tissue, which prevents the dis- charges from showing on the surface and from opening a path of in- fection from the outer world to the wound. But this should certainly not reach to any extent over the external surface of a dry dressing, otherwise evaporation of the secretions may be interfered with. The latter is justly considered one of the most important factors of modern aseptic wound-treatment. Nothing will more surely prevent the de- velopment of micro-organisms in dressings than rapid evaporation of the discharges that have escaped into them. It is not necessary for this that the discharge should have appeared on the external surface of the dressing; on the contrary, gauze and moss, for example, which ab- sorb rapidly, will also allow evaporation through much of their ma- terial which is still dry. On the whole, it seems a better plan to avoid entirely the use of impermeable materials in the application of a dry aseptic dressing, more especially as we are able to control ooz- ing by the proper manipulations in almost all cases, and because we can detect and remedy a weak spot in an aseptic dressing immediately. A method of, wound-treatment which may be occasionally em- ployed with much advantage, is the tamponade of wounds. This may be either temporary or permanent. When used only temporarily, it is employed mainly to control capillary oozing from wound-surfaces, which cannot be checked by other means, and to lessen the risk of in- fection in cases in which the surgeon, apart from the nature of the ailment, does not for some reason or other feel sure of an aseptic course from the outset. Kocher some years ago extended this plan to the treatment of almost all wounds. His method was to tampon at the time of operation, and to introduce the necessary sutures for closing the wounds, leaving them, however, untied. At the expiration of two or three days, having assured himself of the aseptic condition of affairs, the tampons were removed, and the wounds, which had been treated with subnitrate of bismuth as an antiseptic, were closed by tying the sutures already in place. A second use of anaesthetics was thus avoided. Following Kocher, von Bergmann has used this method very extensively in the treatment of some aseptic wounds. A great advance in his method was the substitution of iodoform for subnitrate of bismuth. He furthermore abandoned the introduction of sutures at the time of the operation, preferring, two or three days later, to again anaesthetize the patient for removal of the tampon and closure of the wound. The ad- vantages claimed for this plan are the easy control of hemorrhage, which may occur during extraction of the iodoform gauze, and the greater comfort to the patient and the surgeon during the neces- sarily somewhat extended secondary manipulations. Von Bergmann employed the method more especially in resections of joints, but also in compound fractures involving the joints and the skull. When, for example, after resection of the knee, the tampon is removed on the second day, the wound-surfaces will have a perfectly fresh appearance, and will be equally well adapted to suturing as at the time of the oper- ation. It is not improbable, however, that temporary tamponade in aseptic cases will soon be entirely abandoned, except in those in which excessive hemorrhage is going on. In operations on the brain, and