DISEASES OF THE SPINE. BY DE FOREST WILLARD, M.D., CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY IN THE HOSPITAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Spina Bifida. It would be an advantage if the old name of “spina bifida” could be dropped, and a term adopted which would more accurately describe the actual pathological condition, since the spine is not really bifid. The defect actually consists in the absence of a portion of the vertebral arch, with a protrusion of the contents of the canal, either meninges or cord. Rachischisis posterior, Schistorachis (cleft spine), or Atelora- chiclia (defective spine), would more correctly designate the condi- tion. When the meninges alone protrude through the opening, the tumor is a meningocele; when the cord contents also emerge, it is a myelomeningocele. The terms hydro-meningocele, myelo-cystocele, etc., are also employed. Spina bifida anterior occasionally occurs from a defective vertebral body. These tumors occurring in the pelvis may present themselves in the vagina or rectum, and have been operated upon with fatal results, as instanced by Doughty, Thomas, Emmet, and others. Spina bifida occulta is caused by a defect in the lumbar region. The tumor is covered with skin and with an excessive growth of hair.1 Koch,2 Dareste, Lebedev,3 and others do not assign to hydrops as great an influence in the etiology of spina bifida as do earlier authors. Koch believes that the bony defect is rather due to the failure of sejiaration between the cutaneous and medullary layers after the formation of the medullary canal. The consequent septum between the neural tube and the skin prevents the osseous and muscular tissues from uniting at the median line, thus permitting hernia of the contents. The report of the London Clinical Society’s Committee gives the pro- portion of cases in which the spinal cord enters the sac as sixty-three per cent, and while this may not be true as regards the cord, yet there is no doubt that nerve elements enter the sac in even a much larger proportion of cases. Thorburn reports a peculiar case of cicatrization of a spina bifida which compressed the cauda equina, producing anaesthesia and ulcera- tion of the legs, while the walk was tabetic. 1 Keating’s Encyclop. Dis. Children, vol. iv.. p. 733. 2 Beitrage zur Lehre der Spina Bifida. 3 Virchow’s Archiv, 13, Bd. Ixxxvi., S. 263. ( 053 )