DISEASES OF BONES. 452 In rare cases, osteomyelitis is produced by the action of the pneumo- coccus ; but the cases so far observed are so very few that there has been little opportunity to study this form of osteomyelitis. Ullmann had no difficulty in producing the disease by injecting pneumococci after preliminary fracture of the bone. Achard reported, in 1890, a case of osteomyelitis caused by pneumococci.1 Petrone and Fournier have described a form of osteomyelitis occurring in gonorrhoea, and at- tributed to the activity of the gonococcus, but Ullmann’s attempts to pro- duce the disease experimentally, failed entirely. The streptococcus of erysipelas is by certain pathologists regarded as identical with the streptococcus pyogenes. Senn2 distinguishes be- tween them, and cites, with apparent approval, Hajeck’s assertion that the streptococcus erysipelatosus is found within lymphatic vessels, while the streptococcus pyogenes penetrates the tissues very deeply, and migrates beyond the lymphatics. The latter also, is found in connec- tion with blood-vessels, the former is not. Senn holds to the view of Fehleisen that these forms of streptococcus are not identical. Ull- mann’s experiments in regard to this subject tend to a different view. He succeeded in producing experimental osteomyelitis with cultures of the coccus of erysipelas; while on the other hand Meierowitsch pro- duced erysipelas with the streptococcus pyogenes. Osteomyelitis has been observed a certain number of times after an attack of smallpox; but its exact nature is not any more clearly under- stood than that of variola itself. Similarly, a few cases have been reported as following measles and scarlet fever, and influenza. The sum of our knowledge in regard to experimental osteomyelitis may be expressed in the language of Ullmann, as follows: “ A disease like osteomyelitis can be produced in animals by introduction into the circulation, or into the bones, of pus-producing organisms, after having injured the bone. This may be done with any form of bacterium which has the property of producing pus. If experiments of this kind are carried out with successful aseptic precautions, the micro-organisms found in the pus are identical with those used in the experiment. In man, the most commonly present micro-organism is the staphylococcus; but other forms of bacteria may undoubtedly, produce osteomyelitis. The mode of access of the micro-organism may be through the skin or mucous membrane, probably at some injured point. Osteomyelitis is not a specific disease any more than an abscess is of itself specific. It is ordinarily produced by micro-organisms, but maybe produced exper- imentally without them.” If this statement be accepted, it will be seen that part of our definition of osteomyelitis is set aside; for we have been speaking of “infectious” osteomyelitis; and, of course, osteomyelitis without infection belongs to a different category. Ullmann produced true osteomyelitis by the injection of calomel into the veins of a dog and two rabbits. In these, the symptoms were perfectly typical, including painful swelling and suppuration; and the pus being carefully examined both microscopically and by bacteriological culture methods, showed no bacteria. This re- sult corresponds to the subcutaneous abscesses or diffuse infiltrations of pus produced by Chotzen by subcutaneous injections of calomel. • Ull- mann caused osteomyelitis also by injecting turpentine into the medul- 1 Bulletin Medical, 24 Aout, 1890. 2 Surgical Bacteriology. Philadelphia, 1889.