371 LYMPHANGEITIS. ated by them, which can only prove fatal if a vital depravation of the tissues, either primary or secondary, render them efficient; wherefore I believe that a prompt disinfection of the uterine cavity upon the first onset of suspicious symptoms will in some cases reduce the number of germs to a point compatible with successful resistance by tissues, even of lowered vitality. Deep Lymphangeitis.—This may follow a similar affection of the superficial trunks. Symptoms.—When attacking the deep vessels from the start, pain is first felt in the course of the lymphatics, along which a deep knotted induration can be detected, tender on pressure. The glands are swollen, and sometimes there is a little oedema. The skin, at first normal, shows here and there reddened spots overlying the indurated masses. At times the superficial vessels now become in- volved. Suppuration may either give rise to deep-seated, diffused sup- puration, with all its profound septic complications, or may result in deep, circumscribed abscesses, which may even be situated at some dis- tance from the primary inflammatory focus. Treatment.—Beyond what has been mentioned by Mr. Bellamy, and a caution as to much more rigid asepsis and antisepsis than he has in- culcated, I would merely suggest the propriety of the constant applica- tion of weak antiseptic lotions, and possibly the adoption of Hueter’s advice to inject small quantities of a 2 or 3 per cent, solution of carbolic acid along the course of the affected vessels.1 The constant application •of an ointment of ichthyol, 25 per cent., seemed to me of value in one case. Gangrenous Lymphangeitis.—This chiefly attacks the lower ex- tremities and commences as an ordinary lymphangeitis, but the general condition is from the outset grave, as shown by the occurrence of chills, high temperature, prostration, and early delirium. On the second or third day small bullae form, which afterward fuse into larger ones, or a large one may exist surrounded by a circle of smaller ones, all filled with fluid, transparent or variously tinged with blood. The early rupture of the vesicles reveals the previously dead derm, pultaceous, whitish or red- dish-brown, then greenish or black. The gangrene often extends pe- ripherally, and may destroy considerable skin, the depth of the eschar varying from the superficial layers to the whole thickness of the skin. Oftentimes a diffused phlegmonous inflammation supervenes, frequently terminating fatally. A. M. Jalaguier, who has most carefully studied this disease, distinguishes three forms: (1) A grave form, dangerous from the spreading tendency of the gangrene and from the systemic condition; (2) limited gangrene, but a form where the systemic in- volvement is most grave; (3) a benign, circumscribed gangrene, with relatively mild constitutional symptoms, where recovery most often ensues. Treatment.—This must be actively antiseptic, and Jalaguier advises puncturing of sloughs and evacuation of pus, etc., by means of the hot iron rather than the knife, as less likely to lead to renewed infection. 1 As to the advantages of absorption of antiseptics kept applied to the skin, see Annals of Surgery, vol. iv., p. 429.