577 TECHNIQUE OF CEREBRAL OPERATIONS. will mark the end of the fissure of Ro- lando. In using it, the antero-posterior arm is placed one-eighth of an inch to the right of the median line, and in such a position that the inion and the glabella will each correspond to the same figures on the scale. For instance, if the distance from the glabella to the inion is 13 inches, the reading on the scale, front and back, will be 6% inches each. The zero point will correspond to the middle of the distance between the two points named, and the lateral arm will start half an inch back of this mid-point. Mr. Horsley has de- vised another cyrtometer (Figs. 1676, 1677), much more elaborate, and so ar- ranged that the angle of the lateral arm can be changed to correspond to very broad or very Fig. 1677. Fig. 1678. long Horsley’s Later Cyrtometer Applied. heads; but in practice I have found the simple cyrtometer the more easily used, and suf- ficiently accurate. It can be made by any one out of an ordinary piece of stout paper if one of metal is not at hand. Buchanan, of Pittsburgh,1 has devised a simple modification of this, consisting of a triangular piece of aluminium, the radius of which is 3^ inches and the angle 67°. (Fig. 1678.) Another method has been de- vised by Chiene, of Edinburgh, by taking a square of paper and folding it diagonally from the same corner twice, which will divide the ape*x into four angles of 22 Buchanan's Cyrtometer. each. applied to the head will mark the fissure of Rolando with very fair accuracy. (Fig. 1679.) The fissure of Sylvius begins 1-| inches pos- terior to the external angular process, on a line drawn from this process by the shortest route to the inion. From this it proceeds in a straight line toward and a little below the parietal eminence. The fissure of Bichat runs in a line from the external auditory meatus to the inion. For the location of the other fissures of the 1 Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1893, p. 20. VOL. VII.—37 Three of these angles will give us and when Fig. 1679. A Chiene’s Method of Fixing the Fis- sure of Rolando.