1 FIBROMA. 247 The liporaata which develop about spinal meningoceles require notice, if only for the danger of attempting removal without recognizing be- forehand the existence of spina bifida. Tumors of this nature in the regions where spina bifida occurs, should of course be carefully exam- ined before any operation is undertaken. Fibroma. A fibroma may develop wherever there is connective tissue ; it is of all tumors the most universally distributed. The fibrous is very often combined with other tissues in neoplasms—most frequently with fat, unstriped muscle, and glandular elements, among the benign tumors— and it is associated also with sarcoma and, as a stroma, even with car- cinoma. Frequently found in cystic form, it becomes so by reason of mucous degeneration, or because of its association with glandular ele- ments. The latter variety of fibro-cyst is most common in the breast, and has even been observed in- males in a considerable number of cases; in fact, the cystic variety of fibroma is more common in the male breast than the solid. Fibroma is very common in the breast, but usually there is also enough increase of gland tissue to make the title fibro-adenoma more proper. Seven per cent, of these tumors are developed before the six- teenth year of life, twenty-three per cent, after the fortieth year, and the rest between these ages, so that the disease is one of the active life of tho mamma. The solid form occurs earlier in life than the cystic. Pilz reports a case in which a fibroma developed in the nipple, becoming pedunculated, and was removed after four years of growth, having- reached the size of a walnut. Leser has shown that a form of cystic tumor occurs sometimes in the breast, in which the amount of fibrous tissue is very small, but in which the walls are covered with several layers of proliferating epithelium, warty growths projecting from them into the cavity, and making a picture which resembles the proliferat- ing cysts of the ovary, rather than the ordinary cystic fibroma. Gross in a study of one hundred cases of fibroma of the breast found a history of injury in one case out of every seven. Among unusual situations for fibromata the tongue should be men- tioned, for here they are almost as rare as lipomata (Kirchoff). Clini- cally they have no importance in this situation except as a possible source of irritation and consequent carcinomatous development. A pedunculated fibroma in a woman’s urinary bladder, where it had at- tained the size of a turkey’s egg, has been reported by Bazy. Only two cases of fibroma developed from the spermatic cord are on record, so that it is even rarer than lipoma in this situation (Brossard). Kir- misson reports an instance in which symmetrical tumors developed in the tendo Acliillis on each side in a young man, existing for years with- out symptoms; as they were unaffected by mercurials, and as the pa- tient afterward acquired primary syphilis, it was pretty certainly dem- onstrated that they were not gummata. so that the diagnosis of fibroma appeared the only one which was justifiable, in spite of the fact that fibroma of tendons is so rare. Sendler reports the case of a man forty- two years old with a fibroma of the tendon of the palmar is long us, re-