755 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE NECK. caseation in and about the nodules speedily ensues. Foci, central and peripheral, become fused until the entire gland capsule is filled with a thick cheesy material resembling inspissated pus, but which primarily contains none of the pus formers. Not infrequently secondary infection by the latter occurs. Often the formation of an abscess leads the way to an abiding cure of a tubercular adenitis. When suppuration attacks a number of glands, extensive peri-adenitis generally results, and in consequence numerous fistulse leading to the glands are formed. Often the latter are found embedded in the abscess cavity, the glandular inflammation being overshadowed by the more extensive process in the surrounding tissues. In older subjects the process of caseation is of slow development, and may not occur at all. It is not uncommon to find tubercular glands as large as a hulled walnut or an egg, which though present for years show no trace of softening. Between these extremes of the rapidly caseatingand the hyperplastic tubercular adenitis, all grades are found, not only in different individuals but in one and the same. Some trivial, local, histological cause may induce caseation in more than half of an entire chain of lymphatics, while the remaining glands in the im- mediate vicinity are not similarly affected. As in tuberculosis of all forms, the hygienic aiid medicinal treatment of that of the cervical lymphatic glands merits much consideration. The preparations of iodine, iron, and cod-liver oil, have long been found useful, not through any specific effect, but because they are good tonics. In two cases, quite recently under my care, I observed an al- most total disappearance of the double row of glands, some of which had been softened, under the protracted use of creasote. While the tuberculin of Koch promised much for glandular as well as other forms of tuberculosis, it has been very largely discarded, though there are those who still use it in its modified forms, and in minimal doses, with claims of good results and of freedom from the dangers incident to its original mode of employment. When caseation has taken place within a gland capsule, an occasional success may follow iodoform injection. The old-fashioned collar or stock, to keep the parts at rest, may some- times be used with advantage. There is a large number of cases in which, despite local and systemic therapy, the condition remains unchanged, or progresses in regard to the number of glands involved and the tendency to early caseation. Certain is it that in these the operation of complete excision rests on sound surgical principle. While but few of the glands are involved and the peri-glandular structures are free, the operation is simple in the extreme, and with proper precautions is devoid of danger, Lindenbaum 1 reporting 91 operations without a death. The two sides of the neck may be operated on at separate sittings, and practically all the deep-seated lymphatics may be removed. The remaining cicatrices, though they may extend from ear to sternum, are linear, and far less disfiguring than those resulting from spontaneous cure after prolonged suppuration. Nor can the operation be said to be especially difficult when the entire chain of the deep-seated lymphatics is involved, unless extensive sinuses or widespread infiltration of peri-glandular tissues exists. To shell out one gland after another until it is believed that all are removed, use- 1 Central!)], f. Chir., 1891, S. 357.