61 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. passed through into the orbit; but it is not safe to depend upon the latter supposition, and the injured eye should he enucleated, unless vision is still good, when it should be kept under strict surveillance. Perfect cleanliness must be observed in all operations for the removal of foreign bodies from any portion of the eye, and the suggestions under the bead of asepsis and antisepsis should he carefully followed. The conjunctival wound, if large, may be closed with aseptic sutures, and the eye should then be protected by a light dressing. Wounds of the Eyeball.—But little need be said in addition to what is contained in the article of Dr. Williams, except perhaps as to the manner of treatment. Perfect cleanliness of wounds and of surround- ing parts has done much toward saving many eyes that were thought to he irreparably injured. Sutures are rarely necessary except in wounds involving the conjunctiva and sclera, and then only in the former. The danger of infection is always greater when the vitreous chamber is opened, and the greatest care should be taken in cleansing such wounds and thoroughly disinfecting them. Before closing the wound a few drops of a solution of bichloride of mercury (1 in 1000) may be instilled. Injuries and Diseases of the Eyelids. Symblepharon.—In addition to the methods by sliding flaps of con- junctiva which have long been practised in the treatment of sym- blepharon, the methods of Harlan and Hotz are often of use when there is extensive attachment between the lid and ball. Harlan’s operation is especially useful when the entire lower lid is adherent. The attach- ment is dissected through until the ball has free movement in every direction. Then an incision is made through the lower lid into the conjunctival cul-de-sac along the margin of the orbit, leaving the lid attached only at its ends. Next a thin curved flap of skin is dissected below the incision in the lid, and large enough to cover the denuded conjunctival surface. This flap is turned on -itself and tucked through the incision into the cul-de-sac, and attached by sutures to the lid, thus bringing the fresh surface in contact with denuded portions of the lid, and the skin surface against the hall. Hotz’s mode of operating for extensive symblepharon is by Thiersch’s method of skin grafting. The e}Te is first thoroughly cleansed and the part for receiving the graft is prepared by dissecting through its attachment, or by carefully denud- ing its surface of cicatricial tissue. The inner surface of the forearm is washed with soap and water, and then with a solution of bichloride of mercury. A sharp razor which has been rendered aseptic by being dipped in boiling water is then laid flat against the arm, and by a gentle sawing motion a thin layer of skin is shaved off. This is trimmed to the proper size and laid on the denuded surface. No harm is done if the graft is larger than the denuded part. The lid is gently closed over the graft and the eye is dressed aseptically. The new sur- face will be lighter in color than the surrounding mucous membrane, and will remain so for a long time, but the flap rapidly grows to the part, and soon takes on the nature of the conjunctiva.