WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. Ill unascertained, than that exploration should be made with a finger or probe that carries upon it morbific germs. What hospital surgeon has not again and again seen pistol wounds that have been rendered dan- gerous, not to say fatal, by the idle curiosity or useless zeal of the practitioners who had first seen them? Once properly cleansed and dressed, the after-treatment is that of wounds in general. If possible to avoid it, no piece of clothing that may have been introduced should over be left, for it is almost absolutely certain to be a carrier of infec- tion, and whenever therefore there is a reasonable probability that a bit of cloth is in the wound, careful search for it should be made with the finger, the only instrument that is likely to detect its presence. Dressing of the Wound.—How far it may be practicable in mili- tary practice to early protect a wound, is to be determined in some future great war. When regard is had to the condition of the soldier's clothing, the long time that he may have to lie upon the field before he can be removed, and his surroundings while in transport to hos- pital, one may reasonably doubt if his wound is likely to remain unin- fected until it becomes possible to properly dress it. Military surgeons of wide experience have advised the issuing of antiseptic packets for primary use, but it may well be questioned if they will prove of much value. While the modern wound treatment has rendered practicable many an operation that in years gone by could not properly have been undertaken, it has even more permitted of a conservatism that at an earlier date would have been at the expense of life. In no other class of injuries probably is this more true than in gunshot wounds. Lesions of bones and joints produced by pistol balls rarely demand amputation or excision. Careful cleansing, proper drainage, aseptic dressing, with immobilization, will in the great majority of cases enable the surgeon to save the part, and not seldom to preserve in large measure its func- tional value. The new bullets, at other than close range, boring through the bones and causing little splintering or separation of frag- ments, will make wounds which, if protected from infection, may be expected to heal promptly, and to be followed by but a minor degree of late disability. If very destructive action is produced by these long bolts of small diameter, it will most likely be observed in cases occur- ing in civil rather than in military life, in street firing and mob fight- ing, and in wounds inflicted at short range, when, as has been already said, the damage done by the new is about the same as that caused by the old bullet, “always enormous.” Never have I seen, in men brought from the battle-field, bullet-wounds of such terrific character as those observed in the Cincinnati Hospital during the riot of 1884, in patients who had been struck by the Springfield rifle bullet, calibre .45, at very olose range, from 50 to 250 feet. Wounds of the Head. With the adoption of antiseptic methods of treating wounds in gen- eral, has come a marked change in the management of penetrating wounds of the skull. No longer left to themselves, to terminate very