521 DISEASES OF THE SPECIAL JOINTS. too late to perform artlirectomy, and that excision will be the only operation to consider. Artlirectomy then will find a place chiefly with those who favor early operative treatment,1 either because they have not apparatus at their command, or because they prefer operative to slower measures. If artlirectomy be done early, perfect motion may be obtained in the affected joint, and the results of the operation are in general reported as satisfactory: the‘wound closes early, the mortality rate is low, and there is not the shortening which is likely to accompany complete resection. Senn analyzes TO cases of artlirectomy for knee-joint disease collected from various sources. Of these 7 proved fatal, the causes of death being as follows: pulmonary tuberculosis 2, iodoform poisoning 1, chloro- form 1, general tuberculosis 1, tubercular meningitis 1, and tubercular peritonitis 1. Nineteen times the operation was a failure, and was fol- lowed by return of the disease. Forty-four times the operation was suc- cessful, and in none of these cases did any shortening of the limb occur. A movable joint was noted in 8 cases, and a fixed joint in 32 ; in no case did a flail joint occur. Contraction of the joint into a flexed position occurs in certain cases when the splints are removed too early. With regard to amputation for knee-joint disease, it only remains to be said that it is a measure occasionally necessitated in children by a relapse after excision or artlirectomy, and that in adults it is frequently to be considered as a primary measure in cases of extensive disease, inas- much as excision is in these cases often unsatisfactory. Ankle-Joint Disease.—Tubercular disease of the ankle and tarsus is an affection fairly common in childhood, but fortunately more rare in later life. The location of the disease is most frequent in those bones which seem to transmit the body weight, viz., the os calcis and the astragalus. It is believed by most authors that the disease is generally of primarily synovial origin. Munch, for example, found in 28 cases that the disease was primarily synovial in 23, while in the other 5 cases the focus was once situated in the tibia and four times in the astragalus. Erasmus, however, differed from the general opinion in finding that of 11 cases only 2 were primarily synovial. As to the individual hones affected, Czerny found that in 52 cases the astragalus was affected 15 times, the os calcis 13 times, the cuboid 16 times, and the scaphoid and cuneiform 8 times. Often the lower end of the tibia is affected while there is a focus in the head of the astra- galus, but the complex arrangement of the synovial membrane at the ankle makes extension of the disease very easy to other bones and other parts of the articulation from that originally affected, and the same condition renders complete removal of the diseased tissues very difficult. The symptoms of disease of the ankle-joint, in addition to the swelling, have been very slightly alluded to, and are of much importance in connection with the diagnosis. A persistent swelling about either malleolus is exceedingly suspicious; any thickening over the front of the ankle-joint points to an inflammation of the synovial membrane; while swelling and tenderness over the os calcis indicate probable dist- 1 Volkmanu, Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1885. No 9. Mandry, Beitr. zur klin. Chirurgie (Bruns), Bd. iii , H. 2. 1887. Israel, Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, 1889, No. 5. Zesas, Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1886. No. 28. Duncan, Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences, April, 1889, p. 369.