DISEASES OF BRAIN FROM SUPPURATIVE DISEASE OF MIDDLE EAR. 593 (1) Meningitis.—Meningitis following disease of the ear differs in no respect in its symptoms from meningitis arising from any other cause, saving that it is more likely to be localized, and may he more frequently relieved by operation. The differential diagnosis from ab- scess may he made with considerable accuracy by noting the fact that the pain is much sharper and more general in meningitis, especially if it be diffused, while that of abscess is duller and more local. The pa- tient’s mental condition in abscess is marked by hebetude, while in meningitis there is apt to be delirium even early in the case. The tem- perature in meningitis will be very high, with slighter fluctuations than in pyaemia or thrombosis of the lateral sinus, and in marked contrast to the subnormal temperature of abscess. If the meningitis be localized, however, the temperature will probably not be very high, and will fluc- tuate but little; in other words, it approaches that of abscess. The pulse in meningitis will be rapid and of small volume, and often irregu- lar, and in marked contrast again to the slow pulse of abscess. In men- ingitis also the bowels are apt to be constipated while diarrhoea often accompanies the pysemic manifestations of sinus thrombosis. Optic neuritis is not present with such regularity that it can be depended upon as a differential symptom. Photophobia and intolerance of noise, flushed face and contracted pupils, all would look toward meningitis rather than abscess. (2) Subdural Abscess.—If the meningitis be a localized one it may very possibly lead to a subdural abscess, that is, an abscess between the dura and the brain. Two localities are the commonest for such abscesses (Barker). The first, especially in children, is the neighborhood of the petroso-squamosal suture above. The next and most serious is the sulcus lateralis, or groove for the lateral sinus, below. From the first point the abscess may extend into the lateral sulcus, but may also spread upward and backward over the inner surface of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and may even perforate, first the dura and then the squamous portion of the temporal bone, commonly behind the meatus, when it may be mistaken for an ordinary periosteal abscess; or, as in a case recently reported by MacCuen Smith, it may burst through the squama in front of the ear, or may burst through the tympanum and drain through the meatus itself. If the subdural abscess form in the lateral sulcus it may escape by the mastoid fora- men, but is more likely to involve the lateral sinus and be followed by fatal thrombosis and pyaemia. But in both varieties there may be produced a widespread septic meningitis, which will lead to death unless the surgeon interfere early. The symptoms of such a subdural abscess will be those of meningitis already described, but in addition to these there may be valuable localizing symptoms, either of convulsions, paresis, or paralysis, involving the face, arm, or leg, according to the location and size of the abscess. Treatment.—In a diffused meningitis it is doubtful at the present time whether operative interference is justifiable, although the ten- dency of surgical practice is rather towTard than from operation. But in cases of localized meningitis, especially in that form which leads to subdural abscess, an operation should certainly be resorted to, and it should be both early and thorough. If the diagnosis, as is often the case, is doubtful, in view of the gravity of the prognosis the patient vol. vii.—38