TUMORS. 268 while in 5 cases of round-cell and spindle-cell sarcoma, all treated by entire removal, two patients died from the operation and the disease in the others recurred. Czerny in 18 cases of sarcoma of the upper jaw, reported by Wassermann, lost 2 patients from the operation, and had recurrence in 9, while 6 remained well, 4 for three, five, eight, and nine years respectively, representing 2 round-cell, 1 spindle-cell, and 1 melano- tic sarcoma. In his only case of sarcoma in the lower jaw, a giant-cell tumor, the patient was well nearly seven years after the operation. Sarcoma of the tongue is quite a rarity, and during the last few years but few cases have been recorded. Scheier, in reporting a case, says that he could find in surgical literature only seventeen, of which he gives a table. Jacobi has reported a congenital case, and the rest range through all periods of life, the oldest patient being over sixty. In con- trast to the rarity of women among sufferers with carcinoma of the tongue, is the fact that 6 of the 17 cases of sarcoma were in the female sex. The tumor differs from carcinoma, too, in its frequent occupation of the root of the organ, while it appears to occur very seldom upon the edges. It may be pedunculated. The mucous membrane is usually smooth on the surface of the tumor, and in only four of the recorded cases was it ulcerated. The lymphatics are infected late, and rarely. The growth of the tumors is sometimes rapid, sometimes exceedingly slow. All of the 17 cases were submitted to operation, recurrence tak- ing place in 7, while 4 patients were lost sight of and the rest were cured. The recurrence took place two years after the operation in 2 cases, and only 4 patients were observed to remain well over that time, namely, for two, four, four, and six years respectively, but even this number furnishes over 30 per cent, of cures. Sarcoma of the salivary glands is quite common, hut it must be re- membered that many, perhaps the majority of tumors in these organs are not clinically sarcomata, although held by some pathologists to be- long to this variety of growth; these constitute the curious class of mixed tumors, which I shall consider by themselves. Their composite structure, slow growth, and the complete organization of the various tissues represented in them, distinguish them at once from the ordinary types of sarcoma. Endothelial sarcomata also occur in the salivary glands, and appear to be quite mild in their course. The typical sar- coma, however, in this situation is of rapid growth and almost invariable recurrence, perhaps because of the difficulty of complete removal with- out injuring important neighboring parts, and the consequent natural tendency to conservatism on the part of operators. Sarcoma of the Stomach, Intestine, and Spleen.—Sarcoma of the stomach in the primary form is rare, but not so rare as text-books would lead one to suppose, for the numerous operators upon the stom- ach for tumors have of late years put on record several cases of sarcoma. The clinical and pathological history remains unwritten as yet, but this form of disease should be suspected when rather rapidly growing tumors are found in young subjects, causing few symptoms, for they appear to occur more frequently on the sides of the organ than at the pylorus, and hence do not cause obstruction. In the small intestine sarcoma is also rare, and Madelung in a recent study could find only eleven re- corded cases to add to three of his own. The tumors in this situation