229 METAMORPHOSIS. tioning cancerous patients, as to imagine that a tendency to tubercu- losis predisposed an individual to cancer also. Lubarsch, in a very thorough study of the subject based on over 6000 post-mortem exam- inations, found that of 2668 tuberculous individuals 4.4 per cent, were also carcinomatous, while of 3868 not tuberculous, 11.7 per cent, were carcinomatous. Of 569 carcinomatous individuals 20.6 per cent, were also tuberculous, while of 5967 not carcinomatous, 42.7 per cent, were tuberculous. Hence tuberculous individuals are less liable to cancer than others. In the combined cases no organ was specially in- volved, and in particular not the alimentary canal, though the oesopha- gus was supposed by Lebert to be especially liable. This immunity is not due to the difference in age at which the diseases prevail, for phthisis is also most common at from fifty to seventy years. It is a fact that carcinomatous individuals are less prone than others to all the infectious non-traumatic diseases, such as typhoid fever, pneumo- nia, etc. Metamorphosis. That benign tumors change their characteristics in occasional cases and become malignant, cannot be denied, but perhaps many supposed instances of this change are really cases where tumors of malignant structure have run a slow course or have remained quiescent for years. But in studying these changes it is necessary to distinguish three possible ways in which the metamorphosis may occur. Thus an ulcer may form on the surface of a benign growth, as in a suppurating sebaceous cyst, or a projecting fibroma of the breast, and an epithe- lioma or sarcoma may develop upon this surface just as in any other ulcer. Or a benign epithelial tumor such as the cystic disease of the breast described by Reclus, or a simple adenoma, may by irritation or from some unknown cause change the type of its growth, and become malignant. It is possible also that a malignant tumor may develop in the substance of a benign one as well as in any normal tissue. Besides, it is possible that a benign tumor might, by the irritation of its pres- sure, cause the growth of a malignant neoplasm in the neighboring parts. We do not include here the development of • epithelioma on the epithelial surfaces of dermoid cysts, but perhaps we should include those obscure cases in which after the removal of a benign ovarian cyst re- currence takes place, and recurrence of a malignant form. Among the commonest of these changes is the development of an epithelioma from an ordinary wart, either of the congenital or of the acquired form. Volkmann, in his monograph on primary cancer of the extremities, has carefully studied these cases, collecting from litera- ture and from the elder Volkmann's experience a dozen examples of each variety, and has worked out the curious fact that cancer develop- ing in the congenital warts is far more dangerous to life than that from the acquired wart, not a single instance of cure after operation being known in the first class, while in the second the prognosis is excellent. This change seems to be rarer in the mucous membrane than in the skin; at least Simon collected 10,747 cases of papilloma of the larynx, and found only 45 in which the change to a malignant growth occurred.