ABSCESSES AND ULCERS. 104 number of layers and moistened in a weak carbolic solution, 1-80, or in boric-acid solution, should be laid over the ulcer and the inflamed surrounding tissues. Continuous irrigation is then practised by sus- pending over the part an irrigating bottle or can, filled with warm or tepid carbolic or boric acid solution, a small stream of the fluid being allowed to run continually over the gauze which covers the inflamed area. The constitutional condition of the patient should also receive attention, and the use of saline laxatives and of the tincture of chloride of iron is often followed by the best results. Usually after the use of irrigation for a short time, twenty-four or forty-eight hours, it will be found that the inflammation of the surrounding tissues has subsided, and that the ulcer presents a healthy appearance, when the irrigation may be dispensed with and the ulcer dressed as a healthy ulcer in the way already described. If for any reason the treatment by irrigation is not feasible, a very satisfactory method consists in putting the in- flamed part at rest and covering it with a. piece of lint spread with an ointment of ichtliyol and lanolin, one part of the former to four parts of the latter. The dressing is completed with a layer of cotton and a bandage. Under this treatment, combined with the use of constitu- tional remedies, the inflamed and unhealthy appearance of the ulcer and surrounding tissues rapidly disappears. Sloughing or Phagedenic Ulcer.—This form of ulcer is found in cachectic or ill-nourished individuals, and in addition to local treatment, the constitutional condition of the patient demands prompt attention. TreatmentThe surface of the ulcer should first be cleared from sloughs by a stream of warm carbolized water, or the sloughs may be removed by forceps and scissors. The surface should next be washed or sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen, 15-volume solution, and a wet dressing consisting of a number of layers of lint or gauze moistened in a 1-60 carbolic solution should be placed over the ulcer and covered with waxed paper or rubber tissue. This dressing should be changed at the end of twelve hours, the ulcer being irrigated with peroxide of hydrogen, and then with a 1-60 carbolic solution, and the wet dressing should be continued until the sloughs have separated. If, however, the sloughing process continues and tends to assume a phagedienic form, the surface of the ulcer should be thoroughly dried with absorb- ent cotton and touched with nitric acid applied by means of a swab, and after this, to arrest the further action of the acid, should be irrigated with lime-water. Powdered iodoform, or acetanilide, should then be dusted over the ulcer, this being covered by a pad of moist gauze. The cauterization often arrests the phagedaenic action, and when the sloughs separate, a healthy granulating surface is left. The constitutional treatment of a patient suffering with this variety of ulcer is also a matter of the first importance. He should be given stimulants, iron, and opium, the latter remedy, in doses of from one to three grains in twenty-four hours, seeming to exert a beneficial influence in many forms of gangrenous disease, as pointed out by Mr. Pollock. (Edematous Ulcer.—This variety of ulcer, which presents large, pale, flabby granulations, is often seen in cases in which wet dressings