765 CYSTS OF THE NECK. certain, and quite as dangerous as extirpation. When they have been tried and have failed, subsequent extirpation is rendered far more difficult. Lymphatic Cysts.—'These have been briefly described in a previous volume of this work 1 under the heading of compound congenital cysts. They may be unilocular or multilocular. When the cyst is single, it may he impossible to distinguish it from one of branchial origin if found in the anatomical position of the latter. The lymphatic cysts are found in any part of the circumference of the neck, immediately underneath and involving the integument, or sub-fascial and in their growth displacing muscles, vessels, and nerves, or invading the former. A favorite site is the nucha, the cyst then resting on the cervical spine, which divides it into symmetrical halves. When occupying the front of the neck, the processes of the cyst may project into the floor of the mouth, involve the base of the tongue, and extend over the maxillary border to the face, but never, according to Lannelougue, beyond the line joining the labial commissure and the auditory meatus. In their downward growth the compound cysts may involve the mediastinum. The contents of these cysts are ordinarily clear and limpid, containing a few leucocytes and a marked proportion of albumin, from four to eleven per cent. The larger blood-vessels which are found within the cyst-wall may through rupture change the character of the contents of some of the cysts. A number of theories has been advanced as to the primary source of these congenital cysts. Since the investigations of Wegner,2 Middle- dorf,3 and Lannelongue, it is quite certain that these tumors spring from aberrations of the lymphatic vessels, and that they may he re- garded as cavernous lymphangeiomata. They are often associated with other lesions of the lymphatics, such as macroglossia or macrocheilia. After spontaneous rupture or operative interference long-continued lymphorrhagia has been observed. In very exceptional cases cystic lymphangeiomata have developed later in life. The symptoms produced are those from compression, and when the cysts are superficial they may be negative. In cases of extensive and deep-seated cysts, respiration and deglutition are interfered with to such an extent that death ensues within a few months of birth, from oedema of the glottis or from inanition generally. In a few cases, involving limited areas, spontaneous cure has followed rupture of the sac. The treatment of this condition must ordinarily be palliative. The radical treatment by extirpation is feasible in children only when the tumor is small. Should rapidity of growth or the effects of compression threaten the life of the child, multiple punctures may be resorted to with a view to the reduction of the tumor in size, and the definite oblitera- tion of a number of the cysts. The injection of irritating fluids, such as the tincture of iodine, may be resorted to in properly selected cases. The use of permanent drainage promises much in these cases, provided that wound infection can be avoided. In older children and in adults total extirpation is indicated, unless the necessary dissection would pass the limits of operative safety. 1 Vol. V., p. 200, supra. 2 Archiv f. klin. Chir., Bd. xx., S. 641.