986 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. which I have seen occurred in a young man aged twenty-six years. He gave the following history: He was addicted to masturbation, and over a year previous to coming under observation, when ejaculation was about to occur, stopped it by grasping the penis firmly with his hand. He experienced a sudden, sharp pain in the right testicle which immediately began to swell, so that by the third day it was as big as a fist and very sore. He then knocked it on the gunwale of a boat, when it broke and discharged pus. It never entirely healed, but left a sinus which he claimed discharged semen, and not pus, whenever he had a movement of the bowels, and sometimes through the day. Having had the discharge for a year he insisted on having the testicle removed,, which was done. The sinus was found to lead down to a fibrous mass in the epididymis, with some granulation tissue strongly suggestive of tuberculosis. The wound healed kindly. He gained twenty-six pounds in weight during the two months following the operation. Soon after- ward he returned with a small collection of typical tubercular pus at the site of the operation. This case I regard as one of suppurating tubercular disease of the epididymis. Although no phthisical family history could he elicited, he had the typical appearance of a tubercular subject, and the thick, curdy, lumpy pus in the recurring abscess demon- strated conclusively the tubercular nature of the disease process. That he really did have a discharge of semen through the fistula seems to me to be impossible, for the fibrous matting together of the structure of the epididymis must have occluded the lumen of the vas deferens. Neuralgia of the Testis.—Pain in the testis is sometimes so dis- tressing to the patient as to require radical treatment. Mr. Reginald Harrison 1 in such a case performed an operation of which he gives the following account: Having seen, in performing the open operation for varicocele, certain variations in the arrangement of the nerves which supply the spermatic cord, and which he regards as being derived from the sympathetic, he exposed the cord by a linear incision just below the abdominal ring. Having teased out the nerves, or rather the cellular nidus in which they were surrounded, from the structures of the cord, as far as he was able, he removed them with a pair of small curved scissors. The parts were carefully adjusted with catgut sutures and healing soon took place. The relief was so great that a few months afterward the patient requested that the same operation should be done on the remaining side. This was accomplished, and subsequently he remained free from pain, while no change was observed in the testicles. Strangulation of the Testicle from Twist of the Cord.—Dr. Johnson, of Baltimore,2 reports a case of strangulation of the testicle in which the cord had a series of twists. It occurred suddenly in a man while blowing a cornet, and gave rise to some of the symptoms of strangulated hernia. In a further article on the same subject3 he has collected fourteen cases, including his own. To these may be added that of Van Liveringen.4 It occurred in a boy aged thirteen years, who was idiotic and a confirmed masturbator, and who probably got the 1 Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs, p. 39. Annals of Surgery, March, 1893, p. 282. 3 Ibid., May, 1894, p. 530. 4 University Medical Magazine, April, 1893, p. 551.