318 VENEREAL DISEASES: SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. 3. In the last instance two phenomena may result. Either the bubo is chancroidal throughout its whole glandular tissue, but the periglan- dular cellular tissue is not as yet contaminated by the presence of the virus; pus from such a bubo is immediately inoculable. Or else the cellular tissue first becomes inflamed, and then, as it is this simple pus which escapes first after the opening of the bubo, the gland itself not becoming immediately chancroidal, a negative result is produced so far as inoculation is concerned; but it becomes positive if attempts at in- oculation are delayed until this simple pus has entirely escaped and nothing but the interglandular pus, or else that which comes imme- diately from the ganglion itself, is employed. Many cases might be cited in support or refutation of this theory, which, after all, sifts itself down to the following points:— 1. That in the large proportion of cases of chancroids of the genitals no glandular infection occurs. 2. That of those in which it does occur, the larger proportion are purely inflammatory at the beginning, and a very few of them may be- come virulent by carelessness in dressing the wound of the genital chancroids. 3. That a small proportion of them are virulent from the start, and this would seem to be borne out by the fact that occasionally, where the chancroids are virulent, there will be a virulent absorption, with breaking down of one or more of the lymphatics connecting the two points of ulceration. Such instances are not very frequent, but they have occurred. Treatment of the Chancroid. The treatment of this variety of venereal ulcer is as varied as that of gonorrhoea, every one having some pet drug which he deems facile princeps the thing to use, and which he thinks no chancroid, it matters not how inflammatory or angry it may be, can possibly withstand. One of the latest methods is the use of heat, which, by the way, is not a new thing. Aubert, surgeon-in-chief of the Antiquaille Hospital of Lyons, France, in the Lyon Medical for August, 1883, gives his opinion of the action of heat in depriving the chancroid of its inoculable virus, and says that heat, which he employed in the shape of hot baths beginning at from 12° to 13° C. (108° to 110° F.) completely destroys the inocula- bility of the virus after twenty-four hours. After the first twenty-four hours the heat may be reduced from 12° to 38° C. (100° F.) with con- tinued happy results. Aubert prosecuted his experiments further in order to find the lowest point at which the virus was innocuous, and he discovered, or thought he discovered, that the chancroidal virus was rendered non-inoculable after the application of heat between 37° and 38° C. (98° to 100° F.) for several hours, that is to say, by a tempera- ture at or slightly above that of the interior of the human body. He subjected the pus of the chancroid to a microscopic examination, and while he found that before the application of the heat at high tempera- ture the secretion of the chancroid was purulent, after the application, even when carried only to 37° or 38° C. (98° to 100° F.), the pus corpus- cles were found to be absent, and in place of them there was a simple