494 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. than when there was no outlet. Socin 1 tried the method in 20 cases with unsatisfactory results. Verneuil2 claimed that an authentic and permanent cure of surgical tuberculosis by the use of Koch's lymph had not been recorded at the time of his writing in 1891. Among the papers written by surgeons who have obtained favorable results from this treatment are those referred to in the foot-note.3 An attack upon this method of treatment was made at the Second Congress of Tuberculosis, July 27, 1891. It was demonstrated by Ar- loing, Rodet, and Courmont that the curative effect of tuberculin in cases of bird, bovine, and human tuberculosis occurring in animals, was practically nothing, and finally the assertion of Koch that the Guinea pig was given immunity against tuberculosis by treatment with tuber- culin, was disproved. It was stated, indeed, that in many cases animals thus treated developed more confluent tubercular lesions, and with greater tendency toward speedy degeneration. Dr. SennJ gives the history of 53 cases of tuberculosis, 43 being cases of pulmonary phthisis, and 10 cases of surgical tuberculosis, and as his conclusion from this experience speaks as follows: “ I have given Koch’s lymph a fair trial, and have carefully observed its results, and have become firmly convinced both of the danger which attends its use and of its utter inutility in curing any form of tuberculosis.” He protests, moreover, “earnestly against further experimentation with this myste- rious and dangerous fluid.” A purified preparation of Koch’s lymph, called by its advocate, Professor Klebs of Zurich, Tuberculocidin, has been advocated on the ground that the toxic substances which produced the unfavorable fea- tures in Koch's lymph have been done away with, and that the thera- peutic value of the preparation is equal to that of tuberculin, but so great was the distrust engendered by the failure of Koch's tuberculin treat- ment, that Klebs's newer remedy has aroused but little interest. Treatment by Injection.—Within the last few years the treatment of tuberculosis of the joints by the direct injection of some remedy has been advocated. The proceeding has not as a rule found favor so much with orthopaedic surgeons as with general surgeons in certain parts of this country and in Germany. I have had personally little or no experi- ence in the use of these parenchymatous injections, but have depended largely upon the admirable account given of the method by Professor Seim in his “Tuberculosis of Bones and Joints.” Tincture of iodine, arsenious acid,5 carbolic acid,6 corrosive sublimate,7 phosphate of lime,8 1 Correspond enzblatt f. Sclnveizer Aerztc, 1891, II. 1, S. 91. 2 L’Union Medical, 22 Janv., 1891, p. 24. 3 Berickt liber die Anwendung des Koch’schen Heilmittels bei Kranken; von Esmarch, Deutsche med. Wochenschrift, H. 3, S. 4, 1891. Mittheilungen fiber das Koch’sche Heilver- fahren; II. von Burkhardt, Med. Corresp.-Blatt des Wiirt. arzt. Landesvereins, 18 Dec. 1890. Das Koch’sche Heilverfahren combinirt mit chir. Eingriffen; Sonnenburg, Deutsche med. Wochenschrift, H. 1, 1891. Mittheilungen liber das Koch’sche Heilverfahren aus dem Kaiser Franz Josef Kinderspital in Prag; Ganghofer und Bayer, Prager med. Wochenschrift, No 34. 1891. Das Koch’sche Heilverfahren in Spital Munsterlingen; Kappeler, Corresp. f. Sclnveizer Aerzte. 1891. 4 Chicago Medical Recorder, June, 1891. 5 Cavagnis, Etudes de la Tuberculose, p. 462. <; Die Wirkungen der parenchymatosen Carbolinjectionen bei Entziiudungen der Gelenke und Knoclien. Deutsche Zeitsclirift f. Chirurgie, Bd. iv., S. 526; Bd. v., S. 120. 7 Ibid. 8 Korlischer, Ein neues Heilver. bei lokalisirten tuberculosen Processen. Wiener ined. Presse, Bd xxviii., H. 22, 1887. Ibid., Bd. xxviii., II. 24, 1887. Ibid., Bd. xxvii., H. 29. Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, II. 15, 1888.