738 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. ridge. The attachment of the eyelid to the bone is divided and the orbi- tal fat pressed downward, and the nerve is then isolated, lifted up on a strabismus or other blunt hook, and divided as far hack in the orbit as possible. Before its division it should be grasped by forceps far back and drawn forward, so as to stretch the portion near the brain. After it has been divided, traction should be made on the part to be excised, in order that the peripheral branches supplying the forehead may he stretched and dragged out of the tissues. This method enables the surgeon to extract the greatest amount of the nerve and its branches. The second division is dealt with by the orbital, antral, or ptergygo- maxillary route. The various methods are well described in detail by Rose.1 One method of operating by each route will here suffice. The infra-orbited foramen is exposed by a transverse cut under the orbit. A second incision may be made from the nasal end of the first incision along the naso-labial furrow. This additional wound gives more room by enabling the surgeon to turn down a flap, but is not essen- tial. A longitudinal cut from the middle of the first incision is, I think, less desirable, because of the greater prominence of the cicatrix. The portion of the lower margin of the orbit above the foramen is readily cut out by a chisel, and access is thus obtained to the nerve. The orbital contents are next carefully held up with a retractor, while the thin roof of the canal in the floor of the orbit is broken through and the nerve uncovered. It is stretched with forceps and cut off as far back in the orbit as possible. The peripheral branches are then torn out of the muscles and skin, by steady traction made on the detached piece of nerve. If the operator prefer, the periosteum may be detached from the floor of the orbit and held up along with the eye and orbital fat, while the canal is being laid open. When the antral route is chosen, illumination with an electric light and mirror is almost a necessity. A Y-shaped or T-shaped incision, with the centre over the foramen and the lower end extending nearly to the corner of the mouth, lays bare the front of the upper jawbone. The anterior wall of the antrum is then opened by a chisel or trephine, the posterior wall of the cavity similarly perforated, and the spheno- maxillary fossa reached. Incision of the mucous membrane of the roof of the antrum, and breaking away the layer of bone under the nerve, give the surgeon an opportunity to remove the latter with or without the splieno-palatine ganglion, which, however, should be re- moved if possible. Bleeding is often very free during the deep manipu- lations, but pressure with gauze is readily applied and is usually suf- ficient. There is no objection to cutting off and ligating the arteries which accompany the painful nerves in their canals, when operating upon any of the divisions. The pterygo-maxillary operation may be done by an inverted V- shaped incision, with the apex just behind and below the external angular process of the frontal bone. One limb of the A is carried downward and backward to the tragus, and the other downward and forward upon the cheek, the zygoma is sawn through near each extrem- ity, the temporal fascia is detached from the upper edge of the zygoma, and the detached zygoma with the masseter is turned downward. The 1 The Surgical Treatment of Neuralgia of the Fifth Nerve, by Wm. Rose, F.R.C.S. London, 1892.