951 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. contusion to any considerable degree, to leave the lower part of the wound without sutures, and perhaps to insert a small drain. The catheter should be left in the bladder for from five to ten days, and should afterward be passed at intervals, so as to maintain the calibre of the urethra. If, after first removing it, any difficulty should be en- countered on attempting to reinsert it, it would be safer, provided the patient could urinate without it, to defer further efforts to pass it until the urethral wound should be firmly healed, since the process of union might be interfered with by the end of the catheter becoming engaged and tearing apart the united edges. Barling recommends suprapubic drainage of the bladder for ten days, instead of allowing a catheter to remain in the urethra, withdrawing the latter after the first stage of the operation, when the urethral sutures are tied. He advises that no attempt at catheterization shall be made for three weeks, if the progress be favorable. It would seem that the suprapubic opening of the bladder, in cases where it is not rendered necessary as a step in retrograde catheteriza- tion in order to find the proximal end of the urethra, which search in the perineal wound has failed to discover, would add a complication to the operation which might well be avoided. Proof of its being un- necessary, except when this difficulty is encountered, is furnished by the favorable progress of cases in which it has not been resorted to, drainage of the bladder being carried on by the catheter left in the urethra. In all the cases above alluded to union of tbe parts took place rapidly. The advantages claimed for immediate suture of the urethra for rupture are that it shortens the period of convalescence and diminishes the liability to subsequent stricture, as compared with the method of treat- ment which permits repair of the injury to take place by granulation. Stricture of the Urethra. Exploration of the Urethra.—For determining the presence of stricture, as well as for ascertaining the degree to which the urethral calibre is encroached upon, the most accurate instrument, as far as the anterior portion of the canal is concerned, is the urethrometer of Dr. F. N. Otis.1 As described by its inventor, this ingenious instrument consists of a small straight canula “terminating in a series of short movable arms, hinged upon the canula and upon each other. At the distal extremity where they unite, a fine rod, running through the canula, is inserted. This rod (which is worked by a stationary screw at the handle of the instrument) when retracted expands the ends into a bulb-like shape.” A thin rubber cover fits over the movable arms, and protects the urethra from damage. An index upon the handle tells the degree of expansion of the bulb. In the instrument as ordina- rily made, the bulb, when closed, is of 14 calibre F. and can be expanded as high as 40 calibre. A scale in inches is usually marked on the shaft to enable the surgeon to note the distance from the meatus of any strictures that may be detected. 1 Stricture of the Male Urethra, p. 77. New York, 1882. See also Vol. VI., Fig. 1419 supra.