RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. 795 in my hands. The curette, preferably that of Gottstein, will accom- plish a great deal. In using both the forceps and the curette care should be taken not to injure the Eustachian orifice. The wire snare may be used in a certain number of cases when en- trance can be obtained through the nostrils, and occasionally it may be used to advantage when introduced behind the palate. When it is possible to use the wire snare, and the growth is hard, I believe this to be the preferable means of removal, especially with large children, who can aid the operator. The snare cuts quickly through the growth, and the operation is rapidly performed. The question of the use of chloroform or ether is a debatable one, but the weight of opinion is in favor of their employment, especially with small children. With a state of partial amesthesia, the operation can be more thoroughly and satisfactorily performed. In older children, especially if they have courage, anaesthesia may be dispensed with to their advantage. Retro-pharyngeal Abscess. An inflammatory swelling, generally in the posterior surface of the pharynx, is known by the name of retro-pharyngeal abscess. The inflammatory process involves the underlying connective tissue with the lymphatic glands, and usually tends to suppuration. The pus may collect in a circumscribed sac, or it may burrow downward in the line of connective tissue to the posterior mediastinum, perforating the trachea, oesophagus, or pleural cavity. In a case of my own the pus burrowed into the subcutaneous cellular tissue and perforated the skin, forming a fistula near the cricoid cartilage. It was formerly said that retro pharyngeal abscess was most frequently due to caries of the vertebrae, but later and more extensive observation has proved that this view must be modified. A large number of cases result from caries of the vertebrae, but others are due to a less formidable cause. The strumous diathesis, with its tendency to pus formation, is the primary cause in a number of instances. Retro-pharyngeal abscess may occur as the result of a catarrhal inflammation in which the inflam- matory process has invaded the submucous and cellular tissue, which is loose and which has a lax attachment to the mucous membrane of the pharynx; or it may be the result of a true phlegmonous inflam- mation in which the tissues are intensely inflamed and which passes rapidly into the suppurative stage. A large number of cases arise from inflammation and suppuration of the lymphatic glands in the pos- terior portion of the pharynx. In these the inflammation follows the usual course of strumous glandular inflammation, and terminates in a circumscribed abscess. A traumatic abscess may be the result of wounds of the pharynx pro- duced by foreign bodies. Abscess of the pharynx has also been observed as a sequence to diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, and cerebro-spinal meningitis. Nelaton has reported a case due to metastasis in connec- tion with perineal suppuration. In a certain number of cases no con- situtional or traumatic cause can be discovered; the abscess seems to be simply the result of exposure to irritating atmospheric influences which have produced an inflammatory condition of the pharyngeal