INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. 766 Sanguineous Cyst of the Neck. Sanguineous Cysts.—A cyst containing blood may develop from an encapsulated hemorrhage, or from bleeding into a solid tumor or a cyst primarily serous and branchial. Other cysts are sanguineous from their inception, and owe their development to anomalies of the large venous trunks or lymphatics of the neck. Although they may be found in any part of the neck, these are generally in relation with the internal jugular or subclavian vein. In three out of eleven cases which have been carefully investigated by Franke1 and reported by Koch, Hueter, and Baiardi, the subclavian vein was not found in one, and the internal jugular in two of the remainder. In a larger number of instances the cyst is connected with one of the veins by a trunk of considerable diameter. In the patient from whom Fig. 1719 was obtained, the deep sur- face of the cyst was adherent to the internal jugular, and from its lower portion there ran to it a branch nearly an inch long and as large as the temporo-maxillary vein. In other cases the cyst ap- pears to be a varix which has be- come separated from the parent vein and stands in no relation with any large trunk. Its growth is not thereby interrupted since, ac- cording to Virchow,2 it is fed by a number of small branches which empty into the sac. Anomalies of the venous and lymphatic vessels must account for yet other cases, since there may be in the same patient a number of small lymphatic cysts within the wall or just without the principal, sanguineous cyst. In the case above alluded to this condition was found. Four or five of these cysts, vary- ing in size from a pea to a hazelnut, were incised and discharged a clear serous fluid. Finally, an angeioma which is not in connection with any large vein may by absorption of its septa become converted into a san- guineous cyst. Bell3 recognized this possibility, and reported such a case. In a youth of seventeen recently operated on at the Good Sama- ritan Hospital, a sub-fascial encapsulated angeioma of the submaxillary region, projecting into the floor of the mouth, consisted largely of a central cyst, the walls of which seemed formed of the remainder of the vascular growth. It had no connection with any large vessel. The cyst-wall, generally rather adherent to its surroundings, may measure from one-twentieth to one-sixth of an inch in thickness, and is rarely of equal thickness throughout. Within it the three coats of the vessel have been found.4 The internal surface varies in appear- 1 Deutsch. Zeit. f. Chir., Bd. xxviii., S. 411. 2 Geschwulstlehre, Bd. i., S. 154. 8 Principles of Surgery, vol. iii., p. 399. London, 1796. 4 Meyer, Centralbl. f. Chir., Bd. lxxxix., S. 663. Fig. 1719.