SMALL HOSPITALS. 1053 and to this may be added $11,000 for furniture and sundries. There is a training-school for nurses. The hospital is supported by small en- dowment funds and endowed beds; there are, too, paying patients, and the city and county and various railroads pay for the care of others; and there are charitable donations from a variety of sources for the care of the poor. The Watts Hospital, at Durham, N. C., is situated near the grounds of Trinity College; it is for the use of the community and of the college, and the medical students of the latter will have the privilege of at- tending the clinics at the hospital. It is the gift, with complete equipment and endowment, of Mr. George W. Watts. Five acres of land are set apart for the hospital, which has been built and furnished, ready for use, at a cost of about $25,000. The object in view was to build the most effective hospital that could be had at moderate cost. The form of construction is simple, the low Fig. 1806. pitch and broad overhang of the roof suggesting a Spanish style an<f having a picturesque effect. There are five buildings: the admin- istrative block has two stories and basement; the surgical building stands next in the rear; and the two pavilions, to the right and left, are connected by a roofed corridor which can be enclosed by glass panels in winter. The three buildings last named are each of one story. In the rear of all is a low one-story building containing the autopsy room, mortuary, and a carriage shed. The first-floor plan of the prin- cipal buildings is shown in Fig. 1806. The capacity of the hospital is twenty-two beds; fourteen are in the open wards, and of the private rooms two are on the second floor of the administration block. Its foundations, etc., are of brick, and North Carolina hard pine is used for all woodwork and exterior finish of the superstructure. The heating is indirect, and ample vent openings are provided near floor and ceiling, and under the beds. The finish is absolutely plain, with rounded edges and curved inner angles. The plumbing is simple