479 TUMOURS In the case of the ivory exostoses a widespread fissured fracture of the skull may be produced in trying to chisel them away ; therefore, unless special circumstances, such as pressure on nerves or important structures such as the eye, or the external auditory meatus, call for their removal, they are better left alone. For the method of removing them when they are seated on the skull see Vol. III. CHONDROMATA. The chondromata are commonly met with in connection with the phalanges and metatarsal or metacarpal bones. They are generally multiple, and grow either from the outside or in the interior of the bone. They are usually benign. TREATMENT.—As a rule it is sufficient to cut down and remove the projecting portion and then gouge away any deposits of cartilage which may be present in the neighbourhood. If the tumour is growing in the interior of the bone, the outer layers of the bone must be chiselled through, and then the soft chondromatous material scooped out. Sometimes recurrence takes place after tliese operations, but they can be repeated without risk if the operation be done aseptically. When, however, there is anv suspicion of malignancy, it is better to amputate if possible. SARCOMATA. The sarcomata of bone may be of various kinds. Perhaps the most common is the osteosarcoma or periosteal sarcoma, beginning in the periosteum and spreading along it. These tumours usually show im- perfect ossification, and the secondary tumours to wliich they give rise are similar ; they are very malignant, and the chances of curing the patient are small. Spindle-celled sarcoma is also common in connection with the periosteum of bones. Round-celled sarcoma is often found in the interior of the bone, its most commoir seat being the head of the humerus. It is very malignant. Treatment.—Amputation wide of the disease aft'ords the only chance ol success in osteosarcoma and spindle-celled sarcoma, and no attempt should be made to save any portion of the aftected bone ; the operation must be performed through or above the neighbouring joint. Metastatic deposits occur early, and usually affect the lungs. In the endosteal sarcomata, even when of the round-celled variety, it is a general rule that the tumours wlrich commence in the interior of the bone do not spread widely throughout it, so that if the lower end of a bone, such as the femur be affected, amputation below the trochanters may be done in preference to enucleation of the entire bone; the medulla, however, must be examined carefully to see that no disease has spread up it. If the growth be in its most common situation, at the head of the humerus, the amputation nmst be through the shoulder-joint, taking