264 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES fracture in the least. There is not the same risk of oedema of the hmb below when bandages alone are used. When splints are applied to both sides of a limb they may be kept in place by means of three straps of webbing buckled around the top, bottom, and middle of the splints. Strips of bandage tied in sUp knots may be used as substitutes ; outside them an ordinary bandage may be put oji. The outside bandage can be taken off and the fracture inspected without loosening or disturbing the splints; the slip knots can be tightened one at a time without causing any disturbance. Materials for Splints.—Fixation apparatus may be made of wood, B a Fig. 112.—Gooch's Splinting. A. The roll of splinting before it is cut. The scored surface is uppermost in this figure, the one covered with American cloth being undermost. B. The splint cut ready for application to the right lower limb. An aperture (c) has been cut for the heel, while the upper end of the splint (ab) has been cut obliquely from the inner side (a) upwards and outwards to (6). The dotted lines indicated upon the spMnt show the manner in which it is sometimes still further cut away when it is desired to leave the knee exposed. various kinds of metal, wire, guttapercha, pasteboard, felt, plaster of Paris, silicate of soda, etc. Wood.—Most wooden spHnts are made of deal, which is strong, hght, and cheap. No wooden splint, however, can be made to fit the limb closely, and, therefore, its place often has to be taken by materials which may be made to encircle the limb. To a certain extent this may be done by a wooden splint, if the form known as Gooch's splint be employed (see Fig. 112). This is useful when it is required to surround a considerable part of a Hmb, as in fractures of the upper arm or thigh. Block tin is very useful for sphnts, especially after operations and in compound fractures, as it can be sterilised by boiling, cut to any pattern with plaster of Paris shears, moulded so as to fit the limb closely, and incorporated in the dressings. A specially handy material for this latter