336 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES FRACTURE OF EITHER CONDYLE ALONE. Either condyle may be fractured, the Une of fracture starting above the condyle and running obliquely downwards into the elbow-joint between the condyles. There is generally displacement forwards of the broken fragment, which is very difficult to overcome ; serious interference with the movements of the joint may result unless the fracture is accurately set. TREATMENT.—The surgeon may either manipulate the frag- ments into position under an anaesthetic and then put up the limb in the position recommended for supra-condyloid fracture, or he may cut down and fasten them in position. The latter is the better method, for a slight irregularity in the joint surfaces may lead to serious disability. We, therefore, recommend that operation should be undertaken with- out loss of time. An incision is made over the fractured condyle, and the soft parts are turned back until the line of fracture is exposed. All blood-clot is cleared out, and any loose bone removed, and the frag- ments are then coapted and held in position by an assistant, while the surgeon runs a drill across the lower end of the humerus from one condyle to the other transversely to the long axis of the bone. In doing this, care must be taken not to encroach upon either the olecranon or coronoid fossa. A square ivory peg, a steel pin, or a screw is then inserted. The subsequent treatment is the same as that given on p. 333. FRACUTRE OF THE INTERNAL EPICONDYLE. The internal epicondyle may be broken off by direct violence, and the detached fragment is usually pulled forwards and downwards by the muscles attached to it. The resulting disability is not great because the disi^lacement is usually slight, but if the separation be marked there may be considerable loss of power. TREATMENT.—This fracture is outside the joint, and it is generally sufficient to put the arm up in the fully-flexed position so as to relax the flexor muscles ; an attempt may be made to press the fractured portion of bone back into position by means of a suitable pad and strap- ping. If, however, there be any difficulty in getting the fragment back into place, it is easy to expose the tip of the condyle and fasten it in position b}^ a plate or screw.