AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS 84 was at one time looked upon as a simple chronic teno-synovitis, but it is now known to be tuberculous in nature. In this affection there is also a small quantity of turbid fluid and the sheath is thickened and irregular, with fibrinous or cheesy material and ' rice bodies ' adherent to its inner surface. The latter vary in size from the head of a pin to a pea; they are smooth, flattened, and usually ovoid. The condition may coexist with disease of a neighbouring joint, but it more often occurs alone. The most usual situation for the affection is in the common flexor sheath in front of the wrist, where it forms the so-called ' compound palmar ganglion ' ; it may also occur on the front of the fingers, the back of the wrist, or in the sheath of the peronei tendons and the extensors of the foot. Active work seems to predispose to the condition. The most noticeable signs of this condition are the rubbing of these bodies against each other, some dull pain increased by pressure, and an indistinct sense of fluctuation. The presence of the ' rice bodies' is very noticeable when there is a constriction in the sac, as there is, for example, on the palmar surface of the fingers, where one part of the distended sheath is in front of the phalanx, and the other part is in front of the metacarpal bone. On pressing the contents from one part into the other the crepitant feeling of the' rice bodies' as they pass through the constricted portion is quite evident ; this is also well marked in the case of the compound ganglion in front of the wrist. The prognosis is grave. The disease is apt to extend from the sheath to the tendons themselves and destroy them, and, apart from local troubles such as adhesion and suppuration, it is hkely to become general or to extend to neighbouring bones or joints. Treatment.—The best method of treatment is to make a fyee incision into the tendon sheath, and to evacuate all the 'rice bodies.' The cavity should then be scraped with a sharp spoon, and washed out with a i in 4000 sublimate solution, and filled up with a 10 per cent, emulsion of iodoform and glycerine (see Vol. I. p. 234). The skin is united by a continuous suture ; no drainage tube is required. In the case of compound ganglion of the wrist extending into the forearm, two incisions should be made, one above and one below the annular hgament. The contents of the sac should then be evacuated, the cavity filled up with iodoform and glycerine and the skin wound stitched up. The hand should be kept on a splint for several weeks, passive and active movements being carried out once or twice a week, and later once or twice daily. When this method does not succeed, the sheath must be dissected out as completely as possible in the manner described below. Other methods, such as compression or injection, are of httle value; the same may be said of draining a compound palmar ganglion after spHtting the annular ligament. TENO-SYNOVITIS WITHOUT 'RICE BODIES.'—In the second form of tuberculous teno-synovitis the synovial membrane is