8o AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS ACUTE SEROUS TBITO-SYNOVITIS may follow the dry form, or may be synovitis with effusion from the first. It is, perhaps, most commonly met with in rheumatism, and more especially affects the extensors of the fingers, the long flexor of the thumb, the peronei, and the tibial tendons. The disease is characterised, as a rule, by pain, by interference with movement, and by redness and oedema of the skin. It usually gets well, but, as the fluid becomes absorbed, there is a tendency to the formation of adhesions, although not to the same extent as in the plastic form. Treatment.—The treatment is similar to that of the acute plastic form. As the fluid becomes absorbed and the acute stage passes off, compression by means of a mass of cotton wool (see Vol. I. p. 22) should be used, after which active and passive movement of the fingers must be employed and massage carefully carried out. It is necessary to be careful with massage, because if it be too vigorous, it may lead to a recurrence of the trouble. SUPPUBATIVB TBNO-SYNOVITIS.—This condition is usually traumatic, following wounds involving tendon sheaths, or teno- tomies that have become septic. It may also occur in scarlet fever, pyaemia, etc., but it is most often secondary to inflammation of the surrounding parts, as in the case of a whitlow, especially one affecting the thumb or the little finger, where there is direct extension of the septic material along the sheath of the tendon. In these cases the inflammation is usually very violent, and suppuration occurs early. When the condition is very acute the tendon generally sloughs, while in less acute cases the tendon sheath and the tendon itself become covered with granulations, which subsequently lead to the formation of firm adhesions. After a time the sheath gives way, an abscess forms outside it, and the inflammation may spread to neighbouring bones or joints. Treatment.—The sooner the tendon sheath is laid freely open the better ; in fact, in the very acute form early incision offers the only chance of preserving the tendon. If the opening of the abscess be delayed the tendon will certainly slough, and irretrievable damage will result; as soon, therefore, as the condition is recognised, free incisions should be made into the tendon sheath, the pus washed out with sterile sahne solution, and a drainage tube introduced. The free exit of the pus is so important that the surgeon should not hesitate to lay the sheath very freely open. Hot baths, in which the liquid is frequently changed and the temperature maintained at 100° to 105° F., are very useful in the after-treatment ; they should be employed for several hours daily, but care must be taken that the parts do not become sodden. Passive congestion by means of Bier's method (see Vol. I. p. 13) may also be employed. When the tendon sloughs, the part is irretrievably damaged. When death of the whole tendon occurs right up to the muscle, the separation is