63 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS there may be adhesion of the muscular fibres to each other, or fibrosis and consequent impairment of function. In some cases calcareous salts are deposited in the muscle and calcification occurs ; in others a true ossification may take place. Occasionally the effused blood is neither absorbed nor organised, but becomes encysted and forms a blood-cyst in the substance of the muscle. TREATMENT.—The part should be placed completely at resi until the haemorrhage has ceased ; when this has occurred, attempts are made to get rid of the eftused blood as rapidly as possible by the emplo^'ment of suitable massage. Massage should consist at first, of gentle rubbing in the upward direction for about twenty minutes at a time twice a day. In a few days the other methods employed by masseurs for breaking up the exudation (see Vol. I. p. 23) may also be used. Each sitting should be gradually lengthened up to half or three-quarters of an hour at a time, and the massage should be persisted in for at least two or three weeks. When the effusion is large and does not become absorbed readily, the best plan is to make a curved incision over one side of the swelling, expose the muscle, turn out the clots and put m a drainage tube for two or three days. The operation must be done strictly antiseptically on account of the danger of septic infection. Massage and manipulations should be employed as soon as the wound has healed. WOUNDS OF MUSCLES. Incised wounds of muscles are of no particular moment unless the incision be transverse to the direction of the muscular fibres Punctured wounds over muscles often do not injure the muscle, as it contracts and shdes out of the way, but occasionally some of the fibres are divided and retract, and leave an irregular gap in the muscle (see Punctured Wounds, Vol. I. Chap. VIII.). When the incision is large and, particularly, when it is transverse to the direction of the muscular fibres, considerable retraction takes place and serious functional disabihty may result unless means be taken to restore the continuity of the muscle. TREATMENT.—When a muscle has been divided transversely through the greater part of its width, an attempt must be made to approxi- mate the divided ends by means of sutures. This is a somewhat difficult task, for if the sutures be inserted in the same manner as they are in the skin, each one simply separates the muscular fibres and cuts its way out as the thread is tightened. In order to avoid this, the suture must be passed transversely across the muscle at some distance from the divided edge and tied so as to surround a mass of muscular fibre sufficiently tightly to prevent the portion included in the ligature from slipping through the loop, but not tight enough to strangulate its vessels (see Fig. 15). .\ similar stitch is put in the other divided end, and tied in a like manner. The ends of these tw-o stitches are then tied together firmly, and thus the