INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 29 None of these methods, however, are quite satisfactory. After removal of half or the whole of the nail, recurrence of the trouble is apt to take place as the fresh nail grows, and nothing short of the destruction of the matrix on the affected side of the toe is sufficient to prevent it. In some cases this may be done effectually after removal of the nail by care- fully paring away the matrix with a knife, but it is very uncertain, as portions are apt to be left behind. In order to make sure of a successful result, the following simple operation is the best : The patient being under an anaesthetic, a lateral flap (see Fig. 10) is cut at the side of the toe b}' entering the knife vertically at the base of the nail just outside the ulcerated area. The point of the knife as it comes against the ungual phalanx is carried around it, im- mediately outside the bone and in contact- with it, and, finally, the point is pro- truded on the plantar surface of the toe at the point opposite to the one at which it was entered. A lateral flap is then made by carrying the knife straight for- ward and bringing it out beyond the nail 10, A and B). It is not always Fig. g.—E.xtirpatio.m ok a Nail. The unbroken line shows the extent to which the nail is implanted beneath the skin, and the point to which operation must be extended completely to extir- pate the nail. (see Fig. on the plantar surface. If the cut be front, the flap can generally be turned necessary to make a wound carried well downwards in aside without making any Fig. 10.—Operation for Ingrowing Toe-nail. In .-1 is shown the method of cutting the lateral flap. In B the flap has been cut, the portion of the nail removed and the matrix beneath cut away. In C is shown the second method of performing the operation without forming a flap ; a deep wedge-shaped gap is produced. D shows the final result in both cases, when the parts are brought together. incision on the under surface of the toe (see Fig. lo, C). The nail is now split with scissors from the free edge to the base, a little to the outer side of the centre, and the portion on the afiected side is pulled away by forceps. The matrix beneath the portion thus removed is then dissected awav. Care must be taken to remo\'e it right back to its extreme