404 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES of Lane's bone-plates applied flat over the anterior surface. While this is an excellent method, we prefer to use a wire, as it gets a better hold and is less likely to cause irritation subsequently than are the plates. Non-operative.—The limb must be put on a splint with the knee fully extended and the thigh flexed as far as possible, so as to relax the quadriceps extensor muscle. This is best done by using a back splint with a foot-piece at right angles and raising it on an inclined plane. The fragments should be brought as close together as possible, and the chief obstacle to this is the effusion into the joint. Free bleeding occurs into the joint as a result of the injury, and later on synovitis with effusion takes place. Until this has been subdued to some extent, the fragments cannot be approximated satisfactorily. Reduction of the Effusion.—In the first place evaporating lotions, lead and opium lotion, or an ice-bag, should be applied until the effusion has become absorbed. It will often be a week or ten days before any successful attempt can be made to bring the fragments into apposition. If the effusion be considerable, matters may be hastened by aspirating the joint with all aseptic precautions, the skin being purified, and the fluid drawn off with a fairly large aspirating needle. The result of aspiration, however, is seldom satisfactory ; it is difficult to empty the joint completely, as a great part of the effusion consists of blood-clot which is apt to choke the needle, so that the fluid is only drawn off imperfectly. The removal of a small amount of fluid, however, will hasten absorption considerably by relieving the tension. The needle should not be pushed too far back into the joint, as otherwise it will be thrust into blood-clot, and will get blocked; it should be pushed downwards beneath the front part of the capsule where the fluid has collected. The small puncture is dressed with a piece of gauze fixed on with coUodion, and then steps should be taken to bring the fragments together. Approximation of the Fragments.—The knee is shaved, and the lower fragment is pushed firmly upwards so as to put the ligainentum patellas on the stretch ; the bone is then fixed in this position by a piece of strap- ping which has its centre over the ligamentum patellfe and the lower fragment, while its ends pass obliquely upwards on either side to be fixed to the edges of the splint. Care must be taken to see that the fragment is in proper position when the strapping is applied, as the object is not only to fix it, but also to prevent the tilting forward of the lower frag- ment which is so marked a feature, and which might result in the cartilaginous surface of the lower fragment being in contact with the bony surface of the upper one. After the lower fragment has thus been fixed, the upper one must be brought down into contact with it ; this is usually done by apptying a broad piece of strapping, or 'elephant plaster,' over the front of the lower part of the thigh, extending from six or eight inches above the upper edge of the patella downwards as far as the line of fracture; it should be cut