526 AMPUTATIONS arm behind. The operation has also been done for extensive recurrent cancer of the breast ; but when breast cancer has advanced so far as to necessitate an operation of this kind the case is hopeless, and operation does not offer the least prospect of prolonging life. There are several methods of doing the operation ; that described by Berger is, perhaps, the best. Position.—The patient should be drawn as far as possible to the edge of the table, so that the shoulder on the affected side projects beyond its edge, and the thorax should be well raised by sandbags. The first step in the operation consists in dividing the clavicle and ligaturing the subclavian vessels. Preliminary Ligature of the Subclavian Vessels.—An incision is made along the upper border of the clavicle down to the bone, from the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid to the outer end of the clavicle. The bone is carefully cleared below and divided at the junction of the two curves. The division may be effected with a saw or strong cutting pliers. We have found that the simplest and quickest plan is to use GigU's wire saw (see Fig. 239). This can be passed round the bone by means of the instrument shown in Fig. 240, and the division can thus Fig. 240.—Stiles's Introducer for Gigli's Saw. The instrument is passed round the bone like an aneurysm needle and the wire saw is then hooked into its eye and drawn into place as the instrument is withdrawn. be practised in a few minutes with perfect safety as the bone requires little or no clearing, the instrument being passed like an aneurysm needle. The outer end of the clavicle is pulled forcibly upwards with lion forceps, whilst the tissues beneath it are stripped off. The outer end of the bone can then be disarticulated from the scapula or cut across with Fig. 239.—Gigli's Saw. The saw is a finely tem- pered wire with a low screw-thread round it. This is introduced by the special introducer shown in Fig. 240. The handles are then hooked on and the bone is rapidly divided. It is a most useful saw for many purposes, as its fineness enables it to be passed where others will not £0.