282 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES being slightly increased in length. It is also well to flex and extend the toes in fractures of the leg, or the fingers in fractures of the forearm, at least once a day. This can be done without disturbing the fracture. The rubbing causes rapid diminution of the pain and swelling, and by the end of the first week it will be possible to remove the bandages from the extremity of the limb, so as to leave the ankle and foot, or the wrist and the fingers, free. .A.t this stage passive movements of the joints above and below the fracture should be performed daily. The seat of fracture should be carefully steadied by one hand, whilst the joint is moved with the other. It is only necessary to perform each movement of which the joint is capable once at each sitting ; there is often some pain at first, but this soon subsides. This should be carried out untU the fourteenth day after the injury, and during this time the limb is not taken off the splint. The next step is to lift the limb carefully off the splint and lay it upon a firm flat pillow. The rubbing can now be carried out more vigorously than before, and may be repeated in sittings of twenty-five minutes each twice a day. When the fracture is about three weeks old, fair union will have taken place between the fractured ends, and a light splint, preferably of poroplastic, which does not fix the joint below, may be substituted for the more rigid apparatus. If the fracture be in the lower extremity, the patient may get about on crutches with a patten on the sound foot or in a Hessing's splint; he should be encouraged to move the ankle, although no weight must be borne upon it. Massage and passive movements should be persevered with until consolidation has advanced sufficiently to allow the weight to be borne upon the limb. The patient will then regain practically complete use of the limb without loss of time. It is scarcely necessary to say that this form of treatment requires to be carried out with the greatest care, and by a trained masseur if the surgeon be unable to do it himself. In the cases for which it is specially valuable, namely, fractures in the vicinityof joints, such as Pott's fracture, CoUes's fracture, or fractures in the vicinity of the elbow-joint, the treat- ment is difficult to carry out satisfactorily, and demands great care in preventing imdue mobility of the fragments during the passive movements of the joints. This method, which is the one we are accustomed to employ, seems to us to strike a mean between the somewhat rash disregard of the use of splints, advocated by some of the French surgeons, on the one hand, and the undoubtedly unsatisfactory results of their prolonged use on the other.