ANEURYSM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY the arch of the aorta, behind the middle of the lower part of the manu- brium of the sternum. It ascends obliquelj^ in the superior mediastinum to the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation. It is one and a half to two inches in length. Behind, it lies on the trachea below, and the right pleura above. In front are the manubrium sterni, the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the remains of the thymus gland, The left innominate and right inferior tliyroid veins cross the artery near its commencement. On the riglit side are the right innominate vein, the vena cava superior, the vagus nerve, and the right pleura. On the left side are the thoracic portion of the left common carotid, the left inferior thyroid vein, and, at a higher level, the trachea. Operation.—Ligature of the innominate artery, combined with a similar operation upon the common carotid, is performed as follows. The shoulders are raised on a sandbag, which throws the head and neck well back and brings the innominate artery to some extent up into the neck. It is essential for the success of the operation that the light should be good, and a powerful electric forehead light will be required in the later stages to illuminate the depths of the wound. It is most convenient for the surgeon to stand on the patient's left side, as a better view of the wound will be thus obtained. The incision should be made in the middle line, the advantage of tliis being that the muscles are then merely pulled aside ; after the operation they resume their place and leave no cavity behind, so that drainage is not necessary and primary union occurs rapidly —a point of considerable importance in these cases. The median incision also gives better access to the vessel than any other, and it is easy to tie the carotid artery through it also. The incision commences at the cricoid cartilage, and extends down hi the middle line to a little below the sternal notch. The skin, the cervical fascia, and often the communicating branch between the anterior jugular veins, are divided, and the handle of the knife is sunk into the division between the infra-laryngeal muscles. Some of the inferior thyroid veins which lie upon the front of the trachea and run downwards to the innominate, may require ligature and division ; the thyroidea ima artery, if present, will also require to be tied. If the muscles on the right side of the neck be now retracted firmly, the lower part of the carotid sheath comes into view ; if this be traced down\\-ards, the bifurcation of the innominate will be felt. About half an inch of the innominate artery can thus be exposed in the sternal notch in spare subjects (see Fig. 80). The operation is greatly facilitated by clearing the upper part of the sternum and removing a piece from it about one and a half inches square by means of a chisel. The sheath of the vessel is next opened as far down as possible, and rather to the left side of the artery; an aneurysm needle is care fully insinuated around it in the manner already described (see p. 194) and finally passed around the vessel from the outer side. Great care must