AMPUTATIONS 510 the second phalanx the stump left will be useless unless special care be taken to provide a new attachment for the tendons, especially the flexors. Fixation of Tendons to the Stump.—The flexor tendons should be divided on a somewhat lower level than that of the bone section. Before they are divided they should be secured by catch forceps. Should they escape and retract up their sheath, they can be protruded by flexing all the fingers and squeezing the palm downwards. At the end of the opera- tion they should be stitched with fine catgut either to the edge of the sheath or to the periosteum on the front of the bone. They thus acquire an intimate connection with the bone, and flexion of the stump of the fin ger is preserved. It is not so eas}' to stitch the extensor tendon in a similar manner, but it is well to do so in order to get the best possible result. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FIRST PHALANX. If the tendons be sutured in this manner, even a small portion of the first phalanx may be retained with advantage to the patient. If the entire phalanx can be saved, this certainly should be done, instead of sacrificing it by disarticulating at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, as used to be the practice. It is of great importance to save even the smallest portion of the first phalanx of the index or little fingers. DISARTICULATION AT THE METACARPO-PHALANGEAL-JOINT. This operation is performed more frequently than amputation through the finger itself, and is required for severe cases of whitlow, for bad crushes of the finger, and for tuberculous disease either in the form of strumous dactylitis or tuberculous joint mischief. Importance of Retaining the Metacarpal Bone.—It is always well, if circumstances permit, to avoid interfering with the head of the metacarpal bone. It is true that removal of a finger, particularly the ring or middle finger, leaves an unsightly gap in the hand, but the hand is much more useful than it is when the head of the metacarpal has been removed. The latter procedure gives a better appearance to the hand and leaves little trace of the operation, but the power of the grasp and the general utility of the hand are considerably diminished. Certainly in men, and particularly in those who have to earn their living by manual labour, the metacarpal bone even of the index or the little finger should be left imtouched. In those, however, who are not so situated and to whom the sightliness of the hand is of more importance than its strength, the head of the metacarpal bone may be removed, so as to avoid attracting attention to the gap between the fingers. The Racket-shaped Incision.—The best operation for general use, particularly for the middle and ring fingers, is that known as the racket- shaped incision. The hand is pronated, the other fingers bent and kept out of the way by an assistant, while the surgeon, facing the hand, seizes