524 AMPUTATIONS tissue. The advantages I claim for this plan are, first, the fulness and better form of the stump left after healing ; second, the posterior circum- flex artery is not divided except in its small terminal branches in front, whereas both in the large deltoid flap and the double methods the trunk of this vessel is divided in the earh^ stages of the operation, and retracting often gives rise to embarrassing haemorrhage. In the case of the deltoid single-flap method the vitality of the flap must be seriously compromised, as it depends chiefly on that vessel for its arterial supply. Third, the great ease with which disarticulation can be accomplished.' The above operation will chiefly be called for in cases of tumour of the humerus or disease of the upper end, or for tuberculous disease of the shoulder-joint itself. In the latter case the operation must be ex- tended by removing the glenoid cavity, which can be cut away with bone pliers after the limb has been removed ; in addition, all the synovial membrane must be dissected out, as well as the bursa beneath the deltoid if that should happen to be affected. Operation by a Deltoid Flap.—In cases of tumour occupying the head of the humerus, Spence's operation is not applicable, and in these either the deltoid flap method or some more irregular form of amputation based upon it will be the best (see Fig. 238, B). Incision.—An incision is made from the tip of the coracoid process vertically downwards as far as the level of the insertion cf the deltoid, and from this point it sweeps across the front and outer aspects of the arm with its convexity downwards until it reaches a corresponding point behind, whence it is carried vertically upwards to the root of the acromion. When this flap is dissected up, it should consist of skin, subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia for the first inch or two ; then the deltoid should be raised as the flap is further dissected up. The axillary vessels should be exposed in the incision before the flap is dissected up ; they should be divided between two hgatures, the upper end being stripped up and kept out of the way during the later stages of the operation. After the flap has been raised, the ends of the incision are united by another on the inner side of the arm which forms a flap of sufficient length with its convexity downwards. The length of this will vary inversely with that of the deltoid flap. When it is possible to cut the latter the full length the internal flap need only be short ; a longer one will be called for, if the deltoid flap has to be made shorter than usual. Disarticulation.—The deltoid flap is held well up out of the v/ay and the external rotator muscles are divided close to their insertion into the great tuberosity, the capsule is opened and the knife is slipped behind the head of the bone, and made to divide the tissues forming the deeper part of the internal flap. Removal of the Joint entire.—When the amputation is done for malignant disease of the upper end of the humerus, it is as well to remove the glenoid cavity and the whole of the capsule of the joint, lest the disease should