210 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS by the internal jugular and the vertebral veins, by the inferior thyroid artery, and by the terminal portion of the thoracic duct on the left side. It is surrounded by a plexus of sympathetic nerve fibres. Operation.—The positions of the patient and the operator are the same as for ligature of the common carotid (see p. 193), except that the head is turned rather more forcibly to the opposite side. An incision three and a half inches long is made along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, extending upwards from the clavicle. The external jugular vein is avoided if possible, or divided between ligatures. The deep fascia is divided along the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and that muscle and the internal jugular vein are drawn inwards together, the neck being flexed, meanwhile ; if necessary the muscle may be partially separated from its attachment to the clavicle. The artery is deeply seated, and the safest guide to it is the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, which is parallel to, but deeper than, the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid. The interval between the scalenus and the longus colli should then be identified, and the process of the sixth cervical vertebra felt for ; the artery can generally be found deep down beneath it. The needle should be passed from without inwards. The operation is difficult owing to the depth of the artery and the free oozing from the vertebral and other small veins which lie directly over the vessel; if the former be wounded it must be tied. The wound must be widely retracted and a good light is essential. The fibres of the sympathetic are almost certain to be interfered with, and temporary contraction of the corresponding pupil usually occurs when the vessel has been secured. Ligature of the First Part of the Subclavian Artery.— Surgical Anatomy.—The right subclavian artery commences behind the sterno-clavicular articulation at the bifurcation of the innominate artery, and on the left side the artery arises from the transverse part of the arch of the aorta. The right artery is about three, and the left about four inches in length. Relations of the First Part of the Right Subclavian.—In front are the skin and fascia, the platysma, the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid and the sterno-thyroid muscles ; the anterior jugular, the internal jugular and the vertebral veins ; the vagus, the phrenic and branches of the sym- pathetic nerves, the sternal end of the clavicle, and the sterno-clavicular joint. Below, the recurrent laryngeal nerve intervenes between the artery and the pleural sac. Behind are the longus colli muscle, the neck of the first rib, and the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. The subclavian vein is below the level of, and on a plane anterior to that of the artery. Relations of the First Part of the Left Subclavian.—In the superior mediastinum this vessel ascends almost vertically to the root of the neck, where it curves upwards and outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. Behind are the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, the