468 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES relation to the scurvy, which is of the same type as that found in adult life, and which, moreover, may occur in infants without any rickety change whatever. ETIOLOGY.—Scurvy in infants, as in adults, is primarily due to a lack of fresh animal and vegetable food. That this should occur among the children in large cities seems at first sight somewhat remarkable, but the explanation is to be found in the increased prevalence of hand feeding during the last fifteen or tv/enty years. Dr. Sutherland 1 and others have pointed out that, while healthy breast milk and fresh cows' milk—even when the latter has been just raised to the boiling-point and allowed to cool—are perfect foods for infants from an anti-scorbutic point of view, the same cannot be said of either the ' sterilised ' milks or many of the artificial infants' foods upon the market. With regard to the ' sterilised ' milks, it may be remarked that while ' Pasteurisation '—i.e. subjecting the milk for 20-30 minutes to a tem- perature of 160° F.—does not affect its anti-scorbutic properties, true ' sterilisation,' by keeping it at or above the boiling-point for 20 minutes or more, does so in a very marked degree. The same is true of various infants' foods prepared artificially, whether they take the form of preserved milks or starchy foods, or a mixture of the two ; the treatment they have to undergo destroys their anti-scor- butic powers, and therefore they cannot be relied upon as the sole article of diet. Even meat or meat-juice cannot be depended upon entirely to prevent scurvy ; possibly it might do so were the meat quite freshly kiUed, but this is rarely the case, and scurvy has been known to occur where meat has formed part of the diet. Fruit and vegetables, of course, possess high anti-scorbutic properties. It does not necessarily follow, however, that a child brought up for a long time on a diet of preserved milk or patent foods will develop scurvy ; it is only safe to say that a child so brought up is not proof against the affection. There is often a history of some preceding trouble in the alimentary canal, and the disease not infrequently follows one of the specific fevers. It is far more common in the first two years of life than at any other period. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The chief morbid changes that concern us from the point of view of treatment are those occurring in the bones. Whereas in adults spongy, bleeding gums are the most frequent signs of scurvy, in infants the disease mainly manifests its presence by ' Dr. G. A. Sutherland, Clinical Journal, 1897 The reader desirous of further information on this subject may with advantage consult this paper, from which many of the above points are taken.