AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES aneurysm or one which has become diffuse. In all cases of traumatic aneurysm in the extremities in which the circulation can be controlled by an Esmarch's bandage, it is the most satisfactory procedure. In order to perform the operation in these cases, an incision is made over the aneurysm, extending well above and below the sac. The sac wall is exposed above, the artery is defined as near to the aneurysm as possible, and a Hgature applied to it. The artery below the sac and any of the branches emerging from the sac are then sought for, and tied, and the sac is then laid freely open, and the clots turned out. Should there be any difficulty in defining the artery below the sac, assistance may be gained by passing a sound or bougie into its orifice through the sac. The sac is dissected out as completely as possible ; should any portion of it be adherent to the main vein or to important nerves in the neighbourhood, however, it should be left behind. This operation leaves a wound which will heal by first intention, the aneurysm is entirely got rid of, and the pressure it exerted on the collateral circulation (which sometimes increases as consolidation occurs) is entirely done away with. It is well to insert a drainage tube into the wound for three or foTir days. Even for a traumatic aneurysm of vessels which cannot be controlled satisfactorily by an Esmarch's bandage, the operation may be performed if it be possible to ligature the vessel upon the proximal side before the sac is opened, as by this means the risk of serious haemorrhage on opening the sac is largely avoided. If any blood escapes when the sac is opened, it will come from the lower end, or from some branch-opening into the sac; and should this happen, the finger should be placed over the aperture from which it comes, whilst the lower end of the vessel or any of the branches emerging from the sac are sought for, and tied. It is possible that the operation of endo-aneurysmorrhaphy [vide infra) may supplant this operation in some of these cases. After-treatment. — After any operation for ligature of the main arteries of an exti"emity every precaution should be taken to diminish the risk of gangrene. The limb should be disinfected (see Vol. I. p. lOo), wrapped in a thick mass of sterile salicylic wool and kept slightly elevated on a pillow, special care being taken to avoid pressure over any bony point such as the heel. When extirpation of the sac or Matas's operation has been performed, the patient may be allowed to get up in about three weeks. After the Hunterian ligature, however, it is well to keep the patient in bed for six weeks or two months. There is often much pain as the sac contracts. Endo-aneurysmorrhaphy or Matas's Operation embraces two distinct procedures. In one the lumen of the main artery is obliterated, while in the other an endeavour is made to maintain the circulation through the main vessel after effecting a radical cure of the aneurysm.