TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES after reduction, it is best to cut down upon the fractured ends immediately and fix them in position. Operation has the further advantage that the bones are thereby firmly fixed, and thus the surgeon can commence passive movements much earlier than would otheiwise be feasible. This prevents the occurrence of adhesions, which, apart from the dis- placement of the bony surfaces, is a very common cause of the subsequent disability of the limb. Fractures may also be complicated by an injury to the joint in other ways ; thus, a lacerated wound of the soft parts may extend into the joint, although the fracture itself does not. These cases must be treated as a wound of a joint, the fracture being put up in the ordinary manner. When, however, there is a wound of the joint complicating a fracture extending into it, the broken ends of the bones should be fastened together when the joint is cleaned out. In these cases free drainage must be provided, because there is always a risk that the cleansing of the joint may not have been effectual. Dislocation complicating Fractiu-e.—When the fracture is not situated in the immediate vicinity of the dislocated joint, the treatment is to reduce the dislocation and then to set the fracture and employ suit- able retentive apparatus. Passive movement must be begun early ; if the limb be kept at rest until the fracture has united, hopeless stillness of the joint may have resulted. Movement can be practised without risk to the union of the fracture, as the limb can be enveloped in a moulded splint and moved as a whole. When, however, the fracture is in the immediate vicinity of the dislocated joint, the case is much more difficult to deal with. A good example of this is seen in dislocation of the shoulder combined with fracture of the neck of the humerus. Under these circumstances it is difficult to reduce the dislocation, for it is impossible to get a good hold on the head of the bone. The old rule was to put up the fracture with the long fragment in a line with the short one—i.e. the dislocated head—■ and, after the fracture had imited, to attempt reduction of the dislocation. If this attempt were unsuccessful, as was usually the case, excision was sometimes resorted to, in order to get a useful limb. It is now generally recognised, however, that the best treatment is to cut down upon the head of the bone, at the time of the injurv, replace it in position, sew up the rent in the capsule, and then fix the ends of the bones together, so. as to enable jDassive movement to be commenced early, and thus avoid the stiffness which is apt to follow even a per- fectly aseptic operation unless the joint be moved quite early. Fat-embolism.—In severely comminuted fractures fat may enter the veins and be carried on in the circulation. This occurs to some extent in all fractures, but no bad effects result unless a large quantity of fat gains access to the circulation in this manner. Wlien, however, lai"ge (quantities pass into the veins, the fat globules may become impacted in U 2