AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 338 connection with the olecranon, the separation is not marked, particularly when the forearm is extended, as the curved articular surface prevents displacement upwards. In any case, however, the separation of the frag- ments is increased when the elbow is flexed. Fracture of the olecranon is always accompanied by inability to extend the forearm fully. When bony union does not take place, the patient may be unable to throw, to forcibly extend the arm, or to carry heavy weights. In fact, even when the separation is not great, thehmb is feebler than its fellow ; its range of movement is also frequently hampered by the presence of adhesions in the joint. Hence it is important to obtain bony union if possible ; in the majority of cases treated by apparatus, union occurs only by fibrous tissue, which is apt to stretch afterwards and lead to progressive impairment of function. TREATMENT.—In Recent Cases.—In all cases except those in which there is little or no separation of the fragments the best treatment is to cut down on the fracture as soon as possible, to remove any structures interposed between the fragments, and then to fasten them together. Operative.—The elbow-joint is semi-flexed and the forearm is carried across the chest, while the surgeon stands upon the affected side. The limb may be extended while the flap is being marked out, but access to the joint in the subsequent stages is facilitated by semi-flexion The incision should be crescentic, with its convexity upwards ; a straight one does not give such free access to the fracture, and it has the further disadvantage that the wire is apt afterwards to penetrate the thin scar which then lies directly over it, and, should re-fracture occur, the scar is liable to give way and lead to a compound fracture. The incision should begin and end close beside the olecranon just below the line of fracture, and its convexity should reach up to about an inch above the tip of the process (see Fig. 157). It is of no real importance whether the incision be made as above and a flap thrown down, or whether a flap be turned up by making an incision with its convexity downwards on the forearm reaching well below the line of fracture. In recent cases the one described above is perhaps preferable, as the cicatrix does not lie over a subcutaneous bone surface anywhere. In long-standing cases, Fig. 157. Incision FOR Wiring the Olecranon. The dotted lines indicate the outline of the bones.