TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS III together, healing by first intention should be aimed at ; when this cannot be done, immediate skin-grafting should be practised, in order to diminish the subsequent contraction. When Compression has already produced its effect.—After the compression has been relieved, recovery will almost certainly occur unless the nerve has been severely disorganised. Weeks or even months, however, may elapse before recovery is complete. Usually in such accidents as pressure on the musculo-spiral nerve from the edge of a table, recovery begins in about three weeks, and is complete in five or six J but when the compression has been severe, months, or even years, may elapse before the nerve regains its normal condition. During the interval preceding recovery it is extremely important to maintain the nutrition both of the nerve itself and of the parts supplied by it. The nutrition of the nerve trunk may be improved and the restoration of its functions expedited by the use of the galvanic current; a current of not more than five milliamperes should be applied for about ten minutes, and gradually increased in strength and duration as is found desirable. The current should flow downwards in the course of the nerve : i.e. the positive electrode is applied to the spine while the negative is on the affected nerve near its termination. The circuit should be opened and closed at intervals ; this produces muscular action, and thus helps to keep up the tone of the muscles. The nutrition of the muscles supplied by the nerve is best maintained by massage, and steps must be taken to prevent contracture, which is apt to occur in consequence of the loss of the nerve supply ; unless proper steps be taken to prevent it, this may be permanent even after the nerve has completely recovered its functions. Massage of a paralysed muscle is very beneficial, as it improves its circulation, gets rid of waste products, and thus promotes its nutrition. The faradaic current, used in a strength sufficient to keep the muscle gently m action, but not strong enough to exhaust it, is also very useful. Should the muscle show ' the reaction of degeneration ' [i.e. loss of contractility to the faradaic current with coincident increase of contractility to the galvanic current), the galvanic current ought to be employed ; under these circumstances the circuit should be furnished with a key for opening and closing the current fre- quently (vide supra). At the same time active and passive movements of the affected limb should be encouraged, passive motion especiallv being diligently practised with the view of preventing contractures and adhesions in the neighbouring joints. During the night, the limb should be put on a splint in such a position as to oppose the tendency to contracture. Careful treatment on these lines should be persevered with until the functions of the nerve have been restored, however long a time may elapse before the restoration occurs ; unless this be done, it may be found that by the time the nerve has regained its functions, the parts on which it acts have become irretrievably damaged.