AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 402 that the two cartilaginous surfaces come into accurate apposition. The wire is then bent up so as to approximate the bony surfaces, several twists are made in it (see Figs. 199-200), and its ends are cut off by cutting pliers and hammered down so that there is no projection on the surface of the bone. Care must be taken to see that each end of the wire rotates round the other when it is twisted up, and not that merely one wire is twisted round the other, as in that case movement would pull the inner wire out. Each wire must be held out parallel to the surface of the bone and rotated equally. When a vertical fracture of the lower fragment is met with in addition to the transverse one, the surgeon should begin by uniting the two halves of the lower fragment with medium-sized wire, and then the fragment thus united is secured to the upper one by means of two vertical wires, one for each half of the lower fragment (see Fig. 201). The loose periosteum is next stitched with catgut over the seat of fracture, and one or two stitches through the rent in the capsule on either side complete the operation. The skin-flap is fastened in position by a continuous silk suture ; no drainage tube is necessary. A considerable mass of dressing should be bandaged firmly around the knee to keep the joint still without the aid of a splint. The patient is put back to bed with the limb slightly elevated upon a pillow. After-treatment.—^The chief point in the after-treatment is to restore the movements of the joint as soon as possible, so as to avoid the occur- rence of adhesions. For this reason we think that no splint should be applied. Formerly we used splints for some weeks, but we then found that there was stiffness which required much patience to overcome. Fig. igg.—Wiring the Patella. Twisting the wire. The limb is straightened, the wire pulled taut and twisted. The rent in the capsule is then stitched up, and the flap replaced and sutured. Fig. 200.—Method of Twisting the Wire when Uniting a Fractured Pa- tella.