252 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS muscle, or aiter dividing the soleus the flexor longus digitorum is separated from the tibia, so that the finger passes inside that muscle and away from the artery. Behind the inner ankle the artery lies midway behind the tendo Achilhs and the inner border of the tibia, and as it curves behind the internal malleolus it keeps about the same distance from the edge of the bone. A curved incision, with its concavity forwards, is made a finger's breadth behind the internal malleolus, when the vessel is exposed after division of the annular Hgament. Between the malleolus and the artery lie the tendons of the tibiafis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum, whilst behind the vessel is the posterior tibial nerve, and behind that again the tendon of the flexor longus haUucis (see Fig. iii). The principal mistake made in tying this artery is to get too far back towards the tendo Achilhs. Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—This will be carried on by the communicating and muscular branches of the pero- neal and posterior tibial; the dorsalis pedis with the external plantar; the external calcaneal of the peroneal with the internal calcaneal of the external plantar ; the internal malleolar with the corresponding branch of the an- terior tibial; and muscular branches which pierce the interosseous membrane. Ligature of the Peroneal Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—^This artery is the largest branch of the posterior tibial. It arises about an inch below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and passes obhquely outwards to the fibula, descending along the inner border of that bone to the lower third of the leg, where the anterior peroneal artery is given off; the main trunk then passes across the articulation between the tibia and the fibula as the posterior peroneal artery. The vessel rests first on the tibialis posticus muscle, and, for the greater part of its course, it is contained in a fibrous canal between the origins of the flexor longus hallucis and tibialis posticus. It is covered by the deep transverse fascia and the soleus and flexor longus hallucis. Two vense comites accompany this vessel. The course of this vessel is sufficiently indicated by a line drawn from just above the middle of the calf along the inner border of the posterior surface of the fibula. The line usually given for the incision for tying the vessel is from the posterior border of the head of the fibula to a point midway between the external malleolus and the tendo AcMlhs. The artery is generaUy tied in the lower third, but it can be tied in the upper third near its origin through the incision made for hgature of the posterior tibial in that situation (see p. 250). In hgaturing it in the lower third, an incision is made in the fine of the vessel, the deep fascia divided and the outer border of the soleus muscle exposed and drawn inwards. Beneath this are seen the fibres of the flexor longus hallucis covered by a tendinous expansion. On separating the flexor longus hallucis from the posterior surface of the fibula the artery is found at the outer border of the tibiahs posticus muscle.