114 AFFECTIONS OF NERVES a malignant tumour, which before long will cause the patient's death, there need be no hesitation in resorting early and freely to the use of these remedies ; but when the cause of compression is a simple one and is not likely to destroy life, they should only be employed with great reluctance, on account of the risk of setting up a morphine or cocaine habit ; their use is only permissible when it is quite certain that the symptoms cannot be reheved by any form of operation. Hyoscine hydrobromide, in doses of -j-to '^'^ ~ro^ grain will often be very useful in alleviating the pain ; it should be injected locally as near as possible to the seat of the pain. As a preliminary to the more powerful anodynes, a trial may be made of antipyrine (5 to 20-grain doses), aspirin (5 to 15-grain doses), methylene blue (3 grains in pill), quinine (3 to 5-grain doses). Fowler's solution of arsenic (3-minim doses to begin with), or salicylate of soda (5 to lo-grain doses), either alone or in various combinations. CONTUSION OR RUPTURE OF NERVES. • A nerve may be contused or ruptured by the sudden application of a force which either compresses it violently against a bone or else stretches it, so as to lead to partial or complete rupture. Actual rupture of a nerve is extremely difficult to produce ; usually the nerve is violently stretched, and some of the fibres are torn. The best examples of this are seen in the brachial plexus—the result of severe traction, e.g. the so-called birth palsies—or in attempting to save oneself by grasping at a projection during a fall from a height. The changes which take place when a nerve is contused or stretched are rupture of some of the fibres, effusion of blood into the sheath (generally in the form of minute haemorrhages), and rupture of the nutrient vessels, followed by disintegration of the nerve structures at the point of injury. These accidents usually occur as complications of fractures or dislocations; sometimes they result from severe blows on the nerve as it runs over some bony prominence. In the case of a motor nerve there will be paralysis of the muscles it supplies. In the case of a sensory nerve there will be complete loss of sensation when the injury is severe; when it is less severe, the patient usually complains of tingling and various per- verted sensations. In either case neuritis is apt to supervene after a time. TREATMENT.—The treatment is practically the same as that already described for compression of nerves (see p. no). The same precautions must be taken to maintain the nutrition of the damaged nerve itself and the parts it suppUes while waiting for recovery. When a considerable length of the nerve has been crushed into a pulp, and the continuity of nerve transmission completely destroyed, excision of