22 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES tumour is situated towards the periphery of the hmb, and may be accom- panied by muscular spasm. Treatment.—The treatment is to extirpate the tumour ; but usually these patients become highly neurotic, and, in addition, it is necessary to employ treatment suitable for hysteria. Various other tumours of the skin such as angiomata, lymphangiomata, are referred to in Vol. I. pp. 255, 264. MOLES.—A mole is a soft tumour of the skin, with or without hypertrophy of the hair follicles and the pigmentary layer ; it may or may not be pigmented. Treatment.—The danger of pigmented moles is that they may become the starting-point of melanotic sarcoma as the patient gets older, and, therefore, if there are only one or two isolated pigmented moles present it is best to excise them, whether they are causing disfigurem.ent or not. Sometimes a mole may give rise to wide-spread metastatic deposits without itself showing any changes at all. Hairy pigmented moles on the face are very unsightly, and should be cleanly and com- pletely excised whenever possible ; even in the most extensive cases, excision followed by immediate skin-grafting will give an improved appearance. When grafting in these cases, it is important to try to cut one single graft broad enough to cover the raw surface completely, as otherwise the lines of junction of the individual grafts may be a source of subsequent disfigurement. When there is a very large hairy mole, whose size forbids excision, for instance, on the forehead, the hair can be removed by means of electro- lysis ; the pigmentation remains. MALIGNANT TUMOURS. These may occur under three forms, namely. Sarcoma, Rodent Ulcer, and Epithelioma. SARCOMATA of the skin, with the exception of the melanotic form, are not common, and when met with must be treated by complete excision, followed by the removal of recurrent nodules should they occur (see Vol. I. p. 246). RODENT ULCEE, begins insidiously. There is often a history of slight traumatism followed by a sore place, which becomes covered by a scab, under which the growth slowly spreads. When the scab is detached, a good deal of haemorrhage may occur. The ulcer has a reddish base devoid of granulations, is indolent, and has very little thickening, either about the base or the edges. Sometimes the latter are sharply cut, and occasionally the epithelium makes an attempt to spread over the surface of the ulcer. The condition is a true carcinoma, the cells, how- ever, not being squamous epithelium but smaller elongated cells, and the tumour tends to break down and ulcerate almost as fast as it grows. The