ANEURYSM 189 Macewen recommends that the scarification should be carried out for about ten minutes at one spot, and then the position of the point of the pin should be shifted so as to do the same at another point ; in this way the greater part of the sac wall should be gone over. To do this the pin need not be withdrawn from the puncture in the skin ; it may be left in the aneurysmal sac for some hours, but the longest time that Macewen recommends is 48 hours. While in siiu the pin should be surrounded with a piece of antiseptic gauze, and when it is withdrawn a small dressing is fixed on with collodion and kept in place for several days. Should the aneurysm be large, several pins may be introduced at different points, a suitable interval being left between each so as not to do too much damage to the wall at any one point. The action of this procedure is slow ; some- times it may be weeks before any noticeable thickening of the coats is made out. The pins may be introduced on several occasions ; it is well to leave an interval of a week to a fortnight between each introduction. In several cases this plan has resulted in marked improvement ; in one or two it has even produced an apparent cure of the aneurysm. In all cases, how- ever, where either galvanO-puncture or plained in tlie text. The dotted Unes sliow , . , . I- . , the position of the steel pin as it is made to the nitroductlOn of needles is to be em- scarify fresh portions of the sac wall. ployed, it should be used at an early period in the disease before the sac has become too large and its co\'erings too much thinned. SUMMARY.—It will be evident from what has gone before that in a sacculated aneurysm any of the above methods are apphcable according to the circumstances of the case and the anatomical relations of the part. The precise indications for the choice of any particular method in any indi- vidual case is discussed in detail in connection with the various aneurysms. Wherever it can be employed, the best method is the radical one of removing the sac, and hgaturing the vessel above and below ; Matas's operation may be performed when it is impossible to remove the sac. Failing either of these methods, the next best is Anel's, or the Hunterian ligature. When these are not applicable, cUstal ligature should be resorted to, and failing any of these we can only fall back upon galvano- puncture or the use of Macewen's needles or the employment of general medical treatment. In cases of fusiform aneurysm, proximal ligature of the arter}' (or Matas's obliterative operation in certain cases) should be employed, except when the aneurysm involves a short extent of the artery and is Fig. 71.—Macewen's Method of treat- ing LARGE Aneurysms. The method is ex-