OSTEITIS FIBROSA—BONE CYSTS 475 OSTEITIS FIBROSA. Conversion of the bone marrow into fibrous tissue occurs in tliis rare affection ; in some of the cases the entire medullary cavity is occupied by dense fibrous material. The condition is usually confined to ore or two bones ; cvs''" are not infrequently found. TREATMENT.—Removal of the fibrous tissue is called for. The periosteum, which is usually normal, is incised over the affected area, the extent of which is usually easily determined by a radiogram ; a gutter is then cut in the thinned compact tissue and the whole of the fibrous tissue is carefully scraped away. If cysts occur they should be dealt with as described below. The periosteum is then sutured and the wound closed. Care must be taken to protect the part from injury, until radio- graphic examination shows that repair has taken place. OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. This disease usually occurs after the age of 45 and affects males more often than females. It begins insidiously with slight but increasing aching pain in the affected bones. It generally starts in the tibia, spreads to the femur, and gradually affects the chief bones of the skeleton. In the early stages there is a diffuse fibrous osteo-myelitis with the formation of multijile small cysts. Lime salts are ultimately deposited in the altered lione. These two ])rocesses go on side by side, the bones becoming bent and losing the normal arrangement of their trabecuhe, but, owing to the deposition of lime salts, becoming thickened and heavy, so that the femur and tibia are bowed forward ; the spinal column becomes l;)ent, rigid and thickened, there is loss of height, the chin is protruded and the chest sunk on the pelvis. The disease usuall}/ progresses steadily, the muscles become weak so that walking is difficult, and the patient ultimately dies of exhaustion, though in some cases bone tumours may occur and death not infrequently results from them. There is no known treatment that is likely to do any good in this affection. BONE CYSTS. Apart Irom cysts occurring in tumours in iione, such as myeloid sarcoma, chondroma and myxoma, simple c\'sts are met with in bone which are not associated with new growth. These occur in the medulla and cause expansion of the bone. Those which we have met with have been at the upper end of the humerus, but they also occur in other bones, especially the femur and tibia. The wall of the cyst is generally lined with a thin laj-er of connective tissue, and the medulla in the neighbour- hood contains fibrous material apparently of inflammatory origin ; the periosteum is not thickened. Apparently it is a chronic fibrous