41 LYMPHANGIECTASIS—TUMOURS TREATMENT.—Of Lymphatic Varix.—Excision of the varicose trunks is not to be recommended The varicosity is due, not to the pres- sure of a column of fluid or to inflammation of the vessels, but to actual obstruction, and the removal of the lymphatic trunks will not remedy this. On the contrary, it is apt to lead to lymphorrhagia. Mr. Godlee and Sir Patrick Manson have introduced a promising method of treat- ment for this condition by anastomosing prominent dilated lymphatics with a neighbouring vein (see Clin. Soc. Trans., vol. xxxv. p. 209). It is difficult, but is well worth trying, as they report considerable improvement in the two cases in which it was tried. The operation of lymphangeioplasty (see p. 33) also seems to promise considerable improvement. Apart from these plans, the treatment must be palli- ative, and should consist in careful support and compression of the part W'ith elastic bandages or strapping (the exact method depending upon tlie seat of the trouble) and massage. Of Lymphorrhag'ia.—In cases marked by severe lymphorrhagia— a condition which is injurious from its tendency to produce anaemia— it may be permissible to excise the affected area if it be hmited, in order to get healing by first intention. When this is done successfully, enlarge- ment of the subcutaneous lymphatic vessels generally occurs. The operation must be clone under rigid asepsis because acute and often fatal lymphangitis is likely to ensue, if septic material gain access. Of Lymphadenocele.—This affection has been successfully treated by complete excision, and this method therefore should be followed by those who are confident of their power to keep the wound aseptic. The occurrence of sepsis in a wound of this kind would probably be disastrous; at the least, a permanent lymphatic fistula would be likely to form, and there is also a great risk of erysipelas or some other form of septic infection gaining access to the wound. In the cases not treated by excision, pressure should be employed by means of a pad and an elastic spica bandage. TUMOURS. Lymphangioma has already been referred to in speaking of tumours (see Vol. I. p. 264). It is not uncommon for cancer to occur in the lymphatic tracts leading from the primary disease to the nearest lymphatic glands, and special reference is made to this point in connec- tion with cancer of the breast.