TRANSVERSE FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA 399 Time for Operaiion.—Some surgeons prefer to wait for lour or live days for the inflammation and synovitis, set up by the injury, to subside, l)ut we have been in the habit of operating as soon as possible alter the accident, and we have seen no reason whatever to regret doing so. Im- mediate operation has the advantage that it allows movement to be begun at the earliest possible moment and tlius gives less chance of adhesions forming, and, moreover, the blood and clots are cleared out of the joint at quite an early period. Incision.—After the skin has been disinfected with especial care,— owing to the coarseness of its structure it is a favourite seat of micro-organisms—a flap should be turned down over the front of the ]xil('lla. The incision begins about one inch to one side of this bone, a little l)clow the level of the fracture, and is then carried upwards and curved across the front of the knee about an inch above the upper margin of the patella, and is finally brought down on the opposite side to a point opposite its commencement (see Fig. 196). This flap of skin and super- ficial fascia is turned down until the lower fragment and the ligamentum patelke are thoroughly exposed. The advantage of this incision over the usual vertical one is great. If a vertical incision be used, the wire uniting the fracture lies immediately beneath the scar, which it is apt to per- forate, or at any rate to irritate considerably, when the patient kneels and, should re-fracture occur, the vertical scar is apt to give way and a compound fracture results. When a flap is employ ed, however,. the wire, lying underneath healthy skin, seldom causes trouble ; and, should re-fracture occur, there is no more reason why the fracture should be compound on the second occasion than on the first. It is well to have the convexity of the flap upwards instead of downwards, because if the incision be made downwards the scar will lie over the tubercle of the tibia, which is the point exposed to pressure when the patient kneels. Clearing the Fracture.—As the flap is turned down and the line of fracture is reached, the rent in the capsule on each side of the bone will be seen, and blood and clots can be pressed out from the joint. After the two fragments have been exposed, the fractured surfaces are everted and inspected, and the periosteal layer which is curled over the surface of the fragments (see Fig. 195) is peeled back. It need not be cut away, because it is well to stitch it over the line of fracture afterwards, but it must be removed from contact with the fractured surfaces. Any blood clot in the joint or between the fractured surfaces should be removed very carefully. Drilling the Bone.—When the surfaces have been prepared thus, the upper fragment is bored for the passage of the wire. The best instru- ment for drilling the patella is a square bradawl or ' reamer ' ; this is less likely to split the bone than the ordinary form, but wliate\er form of awl be employed it must be used gently and well rotated ; it should be alliiwed to work its way througli the bone and must not ])e