86 AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS sheath fully open, and the whole of the diseased portion of the sheath can then be removed in one piece (see Fig. 23). After removal of the sheath, the tendon should be examined to see whether it is affected ; if any soft points be found, they should be thoroughly scraped. The skin flap is then sutured, and the hand is placed on a splint with the fingers somewhat flexed and kept at rest until the wound has healed. When the affection is situated in the palmar bursa, the operation is performed in a similar manner, the annular ligament being split as already described on p. 83, and the tendon sheath dissected out. After-treatment. — The first dressings may be removed and the stitches taken out in ten days, when a collodion dressing is fixed on, the splint left off, and the patient encouraged to practise active movements ; pas- sive motion is employed once or twice a week for several weeks. We have treated several cases of this kind, and have been very much surprised at the ease with which movement is regained. There is not nearly the same difficulty in obtaining free move- ment, nor is there the same ten- dency to adhesion to siurrounding parts as there is in cases of plastic teno-synovitis in which the tendon sheath is intact; in- deed it has occurred to us that removal of the sheath might be the best practice in cases of plastic teno-synovitis limited to a few tendons. The tendon moves freely in the cellular tissue, and a sort of sheath is soon re- formed around it. If recurrence of the tuberculous affection take place, the operation should be repeated ; as a rule the recurrence is at the upper or lower end of the incision, and is due to an insufacient amount of the sheath having been removed at the first operation. Short of excision the next best plan is to scrape away the bulk of the tuberculous material, and to inject iodoform and glycerine emulsion. If it be undesirable to give an ansesthetic for the purpose, an exploring needle may be introduced into the cavity, any fluid that is present drawn off, and the emulsion injected without withdrawingTthe needle. In these Fig. 23.—Method of Excision of a Tendon Sheath. A flap is thrown back, and after the sheath has been isolated from the surrounding structures, it is divided circularly well beyond the limits of the disease. A longitudinal incision joining the two circular ones then allows the whole of the affected portion to be re- moved as a flat ribbon-like mass.