AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS 30 limit, for it must be remembered that the matrix extends backwards beneath the skin for about a quarter of an inch (see Fig. 9) ; any portion left behind will give rise to fresh growth. When this has been done, there is a flap at the side of the toe and a raw surface corresponding to what was previously the outer portion of the nail (see Fig. 10, C). The flap is made to cover this raw surface, and is fixed in position by two or three stitches. The result of this operation is that no nail grows on the side operated upon, and, as the edge of the remaining portion of the nail is on a higher level than the skin, the soft parts cannot be pressed up against it, and no recurrence can therefore take place, even though tight boots be worn, or even though the affected toe be on the top of the one next to it. The wound usually heals by first intention, and after a fortnight no further dressings are necessary, and the patient may be allowed to walk about. The disinfection of the toe before operation must be carried out with the minuteness required for all operations in this situation ; micro-organisms are very abundant in the folds about the toes and nails. SYPHILITIC ONYCHIA. Syphilis may affect either the nail itself, when it is called ungual onychia, or the soft parts around it, in which case it is said to be of the peri-ungual variety. UNGUAL ONYCHIA.—The first form of syphilitic onychia chiefly affects the nails of the hands, which become friable and often partially detached. It occurs about the same time as the squamous syphilides on the skin. Treatment.—This is mainly that for secondary syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). The finger should be wrapped up in mercurial plaster or unguentum hydrargyri, or 5 per cent, oleate of mercury may be rubbed into and beneath the nail. PERI-UNGUAL ONYCHIA.—The more common and trouble- some form of syphilitic onychia is that in which the parts around the nail are attacked; the affection may be of two forms—dry or ulcerating. The Ciry form is really a papular or papulo-squamous syphilide occurring at the fold of the nail. The inflammation is, however, pretty severe, and at first sight it may be thought to be of a suppurative character ; no suppuration or ulceration takes place, however. This condition is treated similarly to the last. At a somewhat later period of secondary syphilis ulceration is met with, and this is chiefly due to the presence of condylomata about the base of the nail, and is most frequent on the toes. The result is that a fungating ulceration, with an abundant foetid sero-purulent secretion, occurs about the nail, and may surround the latter entirely, or may affect one side only ; in the former case the nail falls off, and the condition