435 ACUTE INFLAMMATION The fixation should not be continued too long ; provided that the joints are not infected, daily passive movements ought to be begun as soon as the acute stage has passed off. The usual cause of stiffness of the joints is inflammatory swelling of the tissues around and not actual infection. Moreover, the muscles in the vicinity of the affected bone may become matted together and may render movement difficult. Therefore passive movement of the joints is desirable as soon as the acute inflammation has subsided. As healing progresses, the patient may be allowed to perform some movements himself; but the part should be kept elevated most of the day. Should any portion of the bone die, healing will not occur until the sequestrum has been removed (see p. 444). Among the chief risks of acute osteo-myelitis may be mentioned septicaemia and pyjemia. and, in spite of free and earlv operation, the patient may succumb to one of these diseases. If symptoms of pycBinia, such as repeated and severe rigors occur, the main veins of the limb should be examined to see whet'ier any of them are thrombosed, and if so, whether the affected portion can be cut off from the general circulation (see Vol. I. p. 193). In many cases, however, this cannot be ascertained, because the veins leading from the bone are deeply seated, and the thrombosis may not have extended to the larger vessels. Under such circumstances, amputation through the joint or bone above should be performed, as it offers almost the only chance of recovery. If a thrombosed vein be found in the amputation stump, it should be dissected out well beyond the clot and removed. Amputation is no doubt very dangerous when the patient is in this serious condition, but it is practically the onl}^ wav of removing the septic clots thoroughly and satisfactorily, and hence often offers the only chance of saving the patient. When the process is a septicesmia, amputation is not to be recommended because the infection is probably no longer local, and the operation would so weaken the patient as to prevent the hody maintaining a successful struggle against the organisms. All that can be done is to see that the local conditions are made as favourable as possible, and to conduct the rest of the treatment on the lines alread}^ laid down in speaking of septicfemia (see Vol. I. p. 189). Amputation.—Apart from the question of pytemia, immediate amjiu- tation mav be the best treatment in acute osteo-myelitis in old peoj^le, especially when we consider the age of the patient, the diminution in his resisting power, the length of time that will elapse before the separation of the sequestrum, the consequently prolonged suppuration, the serious operation that may be required for the removal of the seques- trum, and the length of time required for healing, which indeed may never occur. Amputation is also often necessary in cases of long-standing necrosis in old people (see Chap. XXIII.). Resection of the Entire Diaphysis.—The periosteum of the diaphysis FF 2