AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 398 time must elapse, even when the fracture is fairly well consolidated, before the patient can get about satisfactorilj^ At first the move- ments are feeble, slow and uncertain, partly from the weakness of the limb, partly from want of confidence, and often from adhesions in the joint. A not uncommon result of fractures treated by non-operative methods is a stiff knee from adhesions which follow upon inflammation and the long rest necessary to obtain close fibrous union. When these adhesions are extensive they are the more difficult to get rid of because the force required to break them down may seriously imperil the ligamentous union. Be- sides this, the union between the fragments is never bony, and although an incline without considerable difficulty, and the fibrous union is always liable to stretch after a time. The results are never as good as when bony union occurs between the fragments. Contra-indications.-—These are very few in number. There is no reason why the operation should not be done in a person well on in years ; an old patient suffers almost more than a young one from the loss of exercise which is likely to result from the treatment of these fractures by the expectant plan, while the operation is not accompanied by shock, and there is no difficulty in obtaining firm union. Ill-health, heart disease, advanced albuminuria, diabetes, and so forth, naturally contra-indicate the operation; but in an ordinary healthy person, even of 70 or more, there is no objection to the operation. Fig. 196.—Incision'"for the Operation of Wiring A Transverse Fracture of the Patella. at first the fibrous tissue may be short,'[^broad and firm, and the fragments closely approximated, the uniting medium gradually stretches with movement and the strain put upon it, so that ultimately there may be a con- siderable gap bridged across by an elongated thin fibrous band. It is true that cases have been recorded and shown where the patient gets along very well after treatment by splints, udt it must be remembered that such a result is not the rule, that it is only obtained after very prolonged treatment and is never absolutely perfect. The limb is never quite sound, the patient as a rule cannot go upstairs without dragging his leg behind him, he cannot kick, he cannot go down