489 METHODS OF AMPUTATING skin can be stretched to its original lengtli again wlien the wound is stitched up, there is some risk of interfering with its vascular supply in doing this, and, therefore the flaps should always be cut longer than is necessary just to cover the ends of the bone. If no retraction of the soft parts had to be taken into consideration, it is obvious that the combined length of the two flaps ought to be equal to the diameter of the limb at the point where the bone is to be divided ; but as a matter of practice it is found that if the flaps be made this length, they will provide insufficient covering on account of the retraction we have alluded to. In order to ahow for this, therefore, they should be at least one-third longer than the diameter of the liml) at the point of section of the bone. It was formerly the custom to cut flaps even longer than this, with the object of avoiding even the slightest tension upon the stitches. Fig. 219.—How to estimate the Length of the Flaps when Amputating. The ■transverse diameter of the limb at the point where the bone is to be sawn is ascertained. This is position a. Keeping the ttiumb in its original position, and maintaining the distance between it and the forefinger, tlie hand is rotated into position b \ this enables the lengtli of the diameter of the limb to be marked along the thigh. This is for an amputation by lateral flaps, and the length of each flap slionld be two-thirds of this measurement. Now that we are sure of obtaining union by first intention, however, a sliglit amount of stretching of the skin flap is of no consequence; while it is very important to a\-oid creating a long bag of skin at the end of the stump, in which blood and serum may accumulate and interfere with union. Another point of great importance nowadays is that unduly long flaps entail an unnecessarily high division of bone. At the same time, if the beginner be in doubt as to the length of his flaps, it is better to cut them too long than too short. It is a simple matter to cut them down afterwards, and this is far better than cutting the flaps too short and being obliged to take away more bone in order to enable them to come together. The point of section of the bone should always be the fixed point which is determined upon before commencing the operation. How to estimate the Length of the Flaps.—The length of the flap may be estimated roughly by spanning the limb at the point where it is proposed to divide the bone without compressing the soft parts. If