TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 93 is to pass a probe, threaded with silk, through the tendon sheath from the original wound to the second incision. The Hgature is fastened to the proximal portion of the tendon, and the probe is withdrawn. By making traction on the ligature, the proximal part of the tendon is pulled down into apposition with the distal part (see Fig. 25). When the two ends have been secured, they may be brought into apposition in a recent wound, without any undue tension, by relaxing the parts (in the example before us, by fully flexing the fingers, the wrist, and the elbow). The next point is to see tliat the divided ends are clean cut ; if they be ragged, a clean section should be made with a sharp knife through each. The ends are then stitched together. If an ordi- nary interrupted suture be passed between the ends, the thread simply separates the fibres of the tendon as it is tightened, and cuts its way directly out, just as it does in the case of muscles. The needle should be passed across from front to back through the whole thickness of the tendon quite to one edge of it and close to the line of divi- sion, and the thread tied over the small piece of tendon in- cluded in the loop (see Fig. 26, A). A secure hold is thus obtained, and the thread may be pulled upon firmly without fear of its cutting its way out. A similar procedure should be adopted on the opposite side of the tendon, and both the upper and lower ends should be prepared in this way, care being taken that the sutures are inserted at exactly corresponding points in the two ends, so that the tendon is not twisted when they are tied together. The ends of the corresponding threads on each side are then tied so as to bring the two cut surfaces into apposition (see Fig. 35.—Method of finding the divided end of a Tendon. An incision has been made at the site of division and another over the same tendon in tlie forearm. A probe is then pushed up the tendon sheath from the first incision and made to emerge at the upper one. Into the eye of the probe is passed a suture tied to the proximal end of the tendon, which can then be pulled down to the distal end by withdrawing the probe.