AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES 172 very rarely takes place spontaneously, but in former times, when sepsis was frequent, it sometimes followed operations in the vicinity of the sac. Instead, however, of leading to a spontaneous cure of the aneurysm, suppuration in the sac may lead to a fatal termination from haemorrhage, or from general septic infection, as the result of the escape of septic emboli into the lumen of the vessel. Rupture.—Generally, however, the clinical history of an aneurysm is that it gradually increases in size, causes absorption of the tissues around until it reaches a free surface, and then bursts and leads to fatal haemor- rhage. Sometimes, however, it may rupture subcutaneously, and then death may ensue either from an extensive escape of blood into the cellular tissue, if this be very loose, or from gangrene of the parts below from pressure-of the effused blood upon the arterial trunk and the collateral circulation. This condition is spoken of as diffuse aneurysm. VARIETIES.—Two forms of aneurysm are generally met with, viz. (i) sacculated aneurysm, in which the dilatation occurs only on one side of the artery, and in which the sac communicates with the artery by a comparatively narrow opening; or (2) fusiform aneurysm, in which there is dilatation of the whole circumference of the artery, giving rise to a fusiform sweUing. In this form of aneurysm there is not, at first at any rate, any formation of the laminated clot described in connection with sacculated aneurysm. The fusiform variety enlarges more slowly than the sacculated, although it follows the same course in the main ; towards the end of its existence it may become sacculated owing to greater dilata- tion of one part of the wall than of another, or from a localised rupture. SYMPTOMS.—There is an expansile tumour, pulsating synchron- ously with the heart and associated with a bruit. Much pain may be caused from pressure on sensory nerves surrounding the aneurysm, or there may be paralysis from pressure on motor nerves, and oedema of the limb if the main vein of the limb be pressed upon. TREATMENT.—The treatment of true aneurysm may be medical or surgical. Medical treatment is confined to the internal form of aneurysm, that is to say, in one of the great cavities of the body ; surgical treatment is employed wherever possible in external aneurysm. Surgeons are, however, occasionally called upon to treat aneurysms which are on the border line between internal and external, for example, aneurysm of the innominate artery. In these cases, medical treatment must always be employed, whether surgical treatment be carried out or not. It will be well to indicate briefly, therefore, the chief points in the medical treatment of aneurysm. Medical Treatment of Aneiirysm.—This has for its object the production of a condition of affairs which will favour the occurrence of coagulation in the sac and spontaneous cure of the aneurysm. This end is, of course, most likely to be obtained when the aneurysm is of the sacculated variety ; it is hardly likely^to occur when it is fusiform. The