544 AMPUTATIONS Bending over the limb, he introduces the knife in the middle line of the calf just below the spot marked by his forefinger, and carries an incision- almost vertically downwards, or with a very slight divergence to the side of the limb opposite to that on which he stands, to about two inches below the spot at which the bone is to be divided. The incision is then carried almost transversely across the front of the limb to a corresponding spot on the other side, whence it ultimately passes upwards to join the vertical incision in the calf (see Fig. 250). To enable the surgeon to mark out the last part of the incision the limb must be raised almost to the vertical. It is well to cut the flap somewhat longer on the inner side of the limb than on the outer. In this way a racket-shaped or oblique flap is fashioned, the lower end of which is about two inches below the point of bone section. This flap is then raised, the muscle being taken up with it, and also, should it be healthy, the periosteum ; the bones are sawn at the point previously determined, and the crest of the tibia is bevelled off. The result is that a hood of skin and muscle falls over the ends of the bones, whilst the cicatrix lies vertically just behind them. As the contraction incidental to healing takes place, the scar becomes pulled up behind the bones and out of harm's way. Amputation at this situation may also be done by means of lateral flaps in which the cicatrix falls over the ends of the bones. This method should only be employed when the old bucket-stump is to be used, as then there will be no pressure upon the ends of the bones, and the position of the cicatrix therefore is unobjectionable. In fashioning lateral flaps the one on the inner side must be cut longer than the outer to allow for the greater width of the tibia. In other cases the operation may be performed by means of a single large external flap as described by Farabeuf, but when the surgeon has the choice we prefer the hooded flap above described. Other Methods.-—It used to be the fashion to amputate the leg by transfixion and to provide a long posterior and a short anterior flap, the former being the length of the diameter of the limb where the bones were divided, while the anterior flap was about one-third as long. The objection to this is that the weight of the posterior flap drags upon the line of union, and this either gives way or the scar is pulled down till it lies over the ends of the bones. The latter objection was no great dis- advantage when amputation was performed at the 'seat of election,' because no pressure was to be borne upon the end of the stump, but at the present time it should not be performed except when, owing to destruction of the skin on the front of the limb, it is necessary to make a long posterior flap in order to save the movements of the knee-joint. Even when performed under these circumstances, it is better to cut the posterior flap from without inwards rather than by transfixion, and to take up only a comparatively small amount of muscle in it.