204 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS The collateral circulation after ligature of the internal carotid is maintained through the circle of Willis. Distal Ligature.—When the aneurysm is at the commencement of the carotid trunk, distal ligature above the omo-hyoid is the only operation that can be performed. The success of this is not nearly so great as that of proximal ligature ; there are the same risks of cerebral disturbance, ANEURYSM OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The external carotid is rarely affected except as the result of extension of an aneurysm of the common trunk ; aneurysm of this vessel is, there- fore, usually situated just above the bifurcation of the common carotid. It may be situated somewhat higher up, however, and then shows itself as a swelling about the angle of the jaw. The pressure effects produced by it are not so severe as those of aneur3/sm of the common carotid, the most striking being those due to pressure upon the hypoglossal nerve. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this affection should be ligature of the artery below the aneurysm, if possible. If the circulation can be controlled on both sides of the aneurysm, however, Matas's operation should be employed, because otherwise it would be necessary to tie the common and internal carotids simultaneously owing to the free anasto- mosis between the branches of the external carotid. Ligature of the External Carotid Artery.—Ligature of the external carotid should be done between the origins of the superior thyroid and the lingual arteries. On account of the free collateral circulation it is also advisable to tie the more accessible branches such as the superior thyroid, the facial, and the lingual vessels at the same time. Surgical Anatomy.—This artery commences at the bifurcation of the common carotid, and terminates in the substance of the parotid gland between the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw and the external auditory meatus, at which point it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. At its commencement the artery is superficial and internal to the internal carotid artery. The direction of the artery may be represented by a line drawn from the point of bifurcation of the common carotid to the front of the external auditory meatus. At its origin the artery is covered by the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, and the platysma, and is overlapped by the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In its upper part, it is deeply placed beneath the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscles, and in the substance of the parotid gland, where the temporo-maxillary vein descends on its outer side and the facial nerve crosses it. The lingual and common facial veins cross it, as they pass to the internal jugular vein. The hypoglossal nerve passes in front of the artery at the lower border of the digastric muscle. Behind it are the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the