AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS 28 in young male adults of the working class, who have much walking to do, who do not keep the feet clean, who wear badly fitting boots, and cut the great toe nail so short that it does not project beyond the soft parts. The result is that the nail is pressed down and irritates the lateral fissure or, what comes to the same thing, the soft parts of the toe are pressed up against the nail; hence, as a rule, the affection occurs near the free end of the nail. It begins with slight pain and swelling, which impede walking. Ulceration soon occurs and spreads backwards along the lateral groove. In bad cases the suppuration is abundant and foetid; there is a good deal of swelling, and the granulations are exuberant. The condition is often serious on account of the pain and lameness it induces, and also on account of the risk of lymphangitis. TREATMENT.—This will vary according to the stage of the disease, but in all cases what may be termed the hygiene of the foot should be carefully attended to. The nails should be cut square, and their edges should project slightly beyond the soft parts ; the feet should be kept clean, the socks changed frequently, and the patient should wear well- fitting shoes or boots. If the case be seen before any ulceration has occurred, it sometimes suffices to introduce a minute pad of boric lint between the nail and the lateral fold so as to take off the pressure of the edge of the nail, the other points in the hygiene of the foot being carefully attended to. This procedure is most likely to succeed when the nail is thick and well-developed ; when it is thin and papery it is of little use. If ulceration has taken place, however, this plan will not suffice. In the later stages, various other methods are resorted to, but all. with one exception, are more or less ineffectual. Some surgeons content themselves with cauterising the prominent granulations, either by the application of nitrate of silver or by dusting them over with crystals of nitrate of lead, and interposing a pad of dressing or a piece of tin-foil beneath the edge of the nail ; others clip away the portion of the nail which is pressing on the skin—an exceedingly bad plan, as it really aggravates the trouble in the end—and others again remove half or the whole of the nail. If it be desired to remove the whole or one half of the nail, the patient is put under an anaesthetic—gas is generally sufficient— and then if one half of the nail is to be removed, one blade of a pair of sharp-pointed scissors is passed down in the middle line between the nail and the matrix right to the root, the nail is split down the centre, and the half on the side affected torn away by forceps. If the whole nail is to be removed, it is detached and torn off by forcible traction with a special pair of forceps termed 'onychia forceps,' one blade of which is thrust down between the nail and the matrix, well to the root of the nail in the middle line, and then on closing the blades, the nail is firmly grasped between the blades and wrenched from its bed, after being loosened by turning the forceps forcibly, first to one side and then to the other.