176 AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES provided that the Ugature be tied sufficiently tightly to occlude the vessel. When a single round ligature is tightened, the internal and middle coats give way and curl up within the lumen of the artery, whilst the external coat remains constricted by the hgature. Hence, at first, the only obstacle to the escape of blood is this constricted external coat. Very shortly, however, blood-clot forms in the vessel, and this afterwards becomes organised and connects the divided internal and middle coats, while lymph is poured out and embeds the ligature, and later on organises and offers a still further obstacle to the escape of blood. Some days or even weeks must elapse, however, before the organising material inside and outside the vessel is sufficiently firm to resist the high blood pressure which exists, for instance, in the innominate artery. Hence the view is held that in large arteries, such as the innominate, the ligature should not divide the internal and middle coats, but should only bring the walls of the vessel firmly together, and so occlude its lumen. As the ligature is tightened, the artery folds up in pleats, which come into absolute contact as the tightening is continued (see Fig. 63). It is only when the force is carried still further that rupture of the internal or middle coat occurs, but even without this, sufficient irritation results if the surfaces of the internal coat be brought firmly in contact by the ligature, and proliferation of the endothelium occurs, and leads to union between the opposed surfaces. While this is going on, the entire wall of the artery remains as a firm obstacle to the escape of blood, instead of only the external coat, as is the case when the two inner ones have been divided. Extensive experiments have been carried out by Ballance and Edmunds 1 as to the amount of force required to constrict a vessel without rupturing the internal coats, and also as to the exact method in which a ligature should be applied so as to occlude the lumen effectually without rupturing the coats. Naturally the amount of force varies according to the pjarticular artery in question, and there is also a marked difference between that necessary to bring the walls into contact and that required to rupture the coats. The exact degree of force required under these Fig. 63.—Occlusion of an Artery WITHOUT DIVISION OF ITS WaLLS. ^ is 3 vertical section of a large artery thus tied, showing the pleating up of its walls. B shows the appearances presented on looking down upon the occlusion from above. {Ballance and Edmunds.) ^ Ligation in Continuity. London, 1891, Macmillan & Co,