39 TROPHEDEMA established. In the legs, the condition is generally unilateral, and the foot is usually most markedly affected, but it may reach up the limb as far as the groin. It does not cause much inconvenience, except from the weight of the enlarged part, which, however, may in time reach an enormous size. In the external genitals, the parts chiefly affected in men are the pre- puce or the scrotum : chylous hj'drocele may sometimes be present. In women the labia majora, and more rarely the clitoris are the chief parts involved. Treatment.—This is very unsatisfactory. Pressure may be applied by means of an elastic bandage, and massage may be tried night and morning, but the results are not encouraging. Ligature oi the main artery of the limb has been practised, with only transient success. Compression of the main artery does not give better results. Punctures into the part are useless and expose the patient to the risk of erysipelas, which is apt to develop after slight injuries in parts affected with elephantiasis. Prolonged rest in bed or elevation of the part leads to a diminution in the size, which is only temporary. In most cases the question of removal of the enlarged part arises ; it is frequently required when the scrotum, the prepuce or the external genitals are affected, and sometimes amputation of the limb is necessary. Recently lymphangeioplasty (see p. 33) has been performed, in some cases with a good result, but in others without any permanent benefit. In the parasitic form little can be done. Radical treatment of this disease is not yet possible, but palliative measures may afford some relief. In the early stages the size of the hmb may be con- trolled to a small extent by the use of an elastic bandage. When the disease is fully developed the size of the affected part may be reduced by operation. In the leg, longitudinal strips including any marked ]3ro- minences may be excised. In the case of the scrotum, an amputation of the main mass of the tumour has been practised with advantage. An attempt has been made to remove the parent worms with a certain measure of success. Although the established disease is not very amen- able to treatment, the increase in the knowledge of the habits of the Filaria, which is accumulating, affords ground for hope that much may be done in the way of prophylaxis. TROPHCEDEMA. Under this name Meige has described a group of cases in which there is oedema, usually of the lower extremities, but occasionally of other parts of the body. The oedema is due partly to fluid which can be removed temporarily by massage or pressure, and parti}' to an overgrowth of the subcutaneous tissue. In infants the oedema is more fluid than in adults. This disease often runs in families and may be (see Fig. 11, present