88 AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS to lead to disappointment, whilst conservative operative treatment will generally require to be too extensive to be feasible. When both the joint and the tendon sheaths lying over it are diseased, it would be necessary not only to dissect away the tendon sheath, as already described, but also to perform arthrectomy of the joint. Between the two, the chances of eradicating the disease on the one hand, and of obtaining a useful limb on the other, are very remote. An operation of this nature will also of necessity be a prolonged one, and the patient will be exposed to the danger of severe shock. When there is no special urgency, these cases should be treated with splints and tuberculin, etc., but if this fails, operation must be considered. In most cases amputation is the best practice when tuber- culous disease of a joint coexists with a similar disease in the tendon sheaths over it. It is only when the joint disease is in quite an early stage and when the tendons involved are few in number, that it is justifiable to limit operative interference to dissecting out the tendon sheaths and fixing the joint. But when the disease is extensive, and especially when abscesses have formed in connection with either the sheaths or the joint, some radical operation such as amputation is necessary. Further, there seems to be a special liability to the occurrence of phthisis in these cases of tendon sheath disease, and unless something radical be done, the patient is very apt to develop lung trouble. SYPHILITIC TENO-SYNOVITIS. Syphihs affects the sheaths of tendons in the same way as it attacks the synovial membrane of joints. In the secondary period of the disease the tendon sheaths, especially in the neighbourhood of the joints, may be affected with a form of serous synovitis. The condition is chronic, but it yields readily to anti-syphihtic treatment (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). In the tertiary stage gummata may form in connection with the tendon sheaths, but they are very rare. The treatment is that appropriate for tertiary syphilis. NEW GROWTHS. New growths in connection with the tendons and tendon sheaths are very rare. Myxoma, fibroma, and sarcoma may occur as primary growths : their treatment is removal according to the circumstances of the case. GANGLION. By this term is understood a sac attached to a tendon sheath, containing a glairy fluid ; the sac wall resembles in structure the tendon sheath. Ganglia generally occur in connection with tendons that are over- used ; they are common on the back of the wrist in pianists and about the thumb and the wrist in needlewomen. They form tense, elastic