454 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES of tuberculosis. In certain cases, such as strumous dactylitis, there need be little hesitation, the only other possibility being syphilitic disease. Radiography is often of great value in these cases, as alterations in the structure of the bone can be identified and sequestra demonstrated by its aid. Palliative Measures.—When the diagnosis has been made, the surgeon has to make his choice between palliative and radical measures. Palliative measures comprise rest, counter-irritation, pressure and good hygienic conditions, cod-liver oil, syrup of iodide of iron, etc., which have already been referred to in connection with tuberculous disease in general (see Vol. I. p. 231), and are also referred to under Diseases of Joints. In strumous dactylitis particularly, palliative measures are very useful, and many cases recover if treatment be persevered with steadily for several months ; it is seldom that an operation is necessary or advisable, unless an abscess forms. In the case of other bones, counter-irritation, especially by means of the actual cautery (see Vol. I. p. 20), is often very useful. Radical Measures.—When the deposit is in the articular end of a bone, it is very liable to open into the joint and infect it, and therefore it is advisable to get rid of it as soon as possible. A radiogram is a most valuable aid in deciding whether a deposit of this kind is present; if it is, the best treatment is to remove it without delay. The incision should be so planned that it does not open the joint, because it is im- portant to avoid infecting it with tuberculous material. The incision should expose the bone where the thickening is most marked ,' if a tender spot can be detected, it should always be cut down upon, because there the deposit is probably nearest to the surface of the bone. A flap, consisting of skin and subcutaneous tissue, is turned aside and the bone exposed ; if the periosteum be unaffected it should be incised and peeled back, and then the surface of the bone is removed with a gouge. If a caseous deposit be present, unduly soft bone is soon encountered; if, on the other hand, there be a sequestrum, the bone will be extremely dense. In the case of a soft deposit, all the tuberculous material shoald be scooped out with a sharp spoon until a cavity with fairly firm walls is left, and then a thin layer of the denser bone which forms the wall of the cavity should be taken away by a stronger spoon or a gouge. For this purpose Barker's flushing gouges (see Vol. I. p. 156) are very useful. Microscopical examination shows that the disease seldom extends more than an eighth of an inch into the bone beyond the actual soft deposit, so that only a thin layer need be removed. It is, however, important to remove this as otherwise tuberculous disease may be left behind. // a sequestrum be met with, it must be taken away. The characteris- tics of a tuberculous sequestrum are that it consists of thickened bone, and is thus heavier and harder than the normal bone ; but at the same time it is not very firm and usually crumbles under the fingers. Tuberculous