231 FEMORAL ANEURYSM obviate or delay the occurrence of sepsis, should gangrene result from ligature of the main vessel. The time at which the patient may be allowed to move about and sit up is discussed in connection with femoral aneurysm (see p. 237). Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Common Iliac Artery.— This is maintained by the internal mammary and the lower intercostals anastomosing with the deep epigastric ; by the deep circumflex iliac and ilia-lumbar anastomosing with the lumbar arteries ; the middle sacral with the lateral sacral ; the superior haemorrhoidal with the inferior and middle haemorrhoidal; the branches of the pudic, epigastric, obturator and vesical arteries, with those of the opposite side. Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the External Iliac.—This is carried on by the deep and superficial epigastrics anastomosing with the superior epigastric of the internal mammary and with the lumbar and lower intercostal arteries ; by the deep and superficial circumflex iliacs with the lumbar and gluteal arteries ; by the obturator with the internal circumflex ; by the sciatic with the internal and external circumflex, and the first perforating branch of the profunda ; by the gluteal with the ascending branch of the external circumflex; and by the terminal branches of the internal pudic with the superficial and deep external pudic. FEMORAL ANEURYSM. This may be situated upon the common or the superficial femoral artery, but as a rule an aneurysm of the superficial femoral artery is implied when the term ' femoral aneurysm ' is used, the term generally applied to aneurysm of the external iliac trunk or the adjacent part of the common femoral artery being ' inguinal aneurysm.' Aneurysm of the profunda branch of the femoral artery is extremely rare. Aneurysm of the superficial femoral may occur either in Scarpa's triangle or in Hunter's canal; it is, perhaps, more frequent in the former situation. In either case, it may cause serious pressure symptoms and may produce marked oedema of the limb from pressure on the femoral vein. It also gives rise to considerable pain, chiefly referred to the inner side of the thigh and upper part of the leg, which is due to pressure upon the long saphenous nerve. Aneurysms of the femoral artery either in Scarpa's triangle or in Hunter's canal not infrequently become diffuse, and it will therefore be necessary to consider the treatment of aneurysm in this situation according as the affection is circumscribed or diffuse. CIRCUMSCRIBED FEMORAL ANEURYSM. TREATMENT.—Here there is a choice between compression, ligature, and aneurysmorrhaphy. Compression of the Femoral Artery.—We are of opinion that treatment by compression should only be employed when the patient