FRACTURES OF INDIVIDUAL BONES OF PELVIS 367 for four or five''days. The patient should be instructed not to assume the dorsal decubitus. Union usually occurs satisfactorily if the fracture be simple, and the patient may be allowed to get up in three weeks; he should not be allowed to sit down until six weeks have elapsed. When the fracture is compUcated by a wound of the skin and there is difficulty in preventing the tilting of the lower fragment, the ordinary treatment for compound fracture should be carried out, and it will be well to fix the fragments together (see p. 305), or else to remove the lower piece. These cases, however, often suppiirate owing to the proximity of the wound to the anus. The treatment of cases, in which the rectum is wounded, is dealt with in connection with the injuries of that organ (see Vol. IV.). FRACTURES OF THE COCCYX. Fracture of the coccyx may be caused by direct violence, such as falls in the sitting position, kicks or blows, etc. It sometimes occurs during parturition, and closely resembles fracture of the sacrum. The bone is usually broken in the vicinity of the sacro-coccygeal joint and the fragment is always displaced forwards ; it may press upon the rectum and give rise to pain on sitting or standing—the condition known as coccydynia. This fracture is often overlooked, and the displacement is therefore not rectified, with the result that the fractured ends unite in bad position and much pain results. TREATMENT.—The treatment is very similar to that of fracture of the sacrum. The rectum should be emptied, and then an effort is made to replace the broken fragment by grasping it between the fore- finger in the rectum and the thumb over the skin outside, and manipula- ting it into place; when this has been done, an enema of starch and laudanum is given. There is, however, a constant_tendency for the fragment to become displaced forwards, and if the fragment will not remain in position, it_is,best,to_cut^down^' and^either lix the fragment by a wire or to excise it altogether. Operative measures, however, should not be employed until the effusion about the fracture has become absorbed. Septic infection is prone to occur in the wound as the result of its proximity to the anus, and might be grave if the soft parts were much damaged. Therefore, persevering attempts should be made for the first fortnight to replace the bone as often as it becomes displaced. After that, operation may be resorted to if these efforts fail. Operation.—A median vertical incision is made down to the bone, the periosteum and fibrous structures are peeled back with a rugme, the fragment is seized in forceps and removed by a few touches of the point of the knife, the woundis sutured, and it is well to fasten the dressing on with collodion. Should septic infection occur, the stitches must be renioved, a drainage tube inserted, and wet boric dressings applied.