AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT 535 membrane. In cases of injury a long plantar flap will be unattainable, and in cases of gangrene the front part of the plantar surface will prob- ably be involved in the gangrenous process. Apart from these draw- backs to the operation itself, the after-results are not good. The tendo Achillis draws up the heel and therefore depresses the front of the stump. Even if tenotomy be performed at the time of the operation, this tilting of the stump recurs at a later period when the tendon has united. The result is that the patient bears pressure upon the end of the stump and there is considerable pain and ulceration. In our opinion these opera- tions might with great advantage be left out of text-books on operative surgery. SUB-ASTRAGALOID AMPUTATION. In this valuable method the whole of the tarsus below the astragalus is removed, leaving the latter behind, with the ankle-joint unimpaired. The natural ankle-joint movement can thus be communicated to the artificial foot, and this is a great advantage. The best method of ampu- tation is, perhaps, that recommended by Farabeuf, who makes a large internal plantar flap (see Figs. 244 and 245). The foot should project well beyond the end of the table, the skin must be scrupulously purified, and the front part of the foot should be wrapped in gauze soaked in a i in 2000 sublimate solution, so that the hands of the assistant holding it will not be infected and, therefore, cannot endanger the wound. This precaution should be adopted for all amputa- tions about the foot. A tourniquet should be applied to the thigh. In operating upon the right foot the limb is rotated firmly inwards, and the incision commences about a finger's breadth below the tip of the external malleolus and nms forwards parallel to the outer border of the foot as far as the level of the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then sweeps across the dorsum with a slight convexity downwards just in front of the articulation between the scaphoid and the cuneiform bones, as far as the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis. From this point the incision is continued downwards across the inner border of the foot to the centre of the sole, and during this part of its course it has a marked convexity forward which reaches as far down as the central point of the inner border of the foot. From the centre of the sole the incision passes across to the outer border of the foot, sloping gradually back as it does so, until it passes on to the outer surface just behind the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. It now follows the outer border of the foot horizontally until the outer tuberosity of the os calcis is reached, when it passes upwards over the back of the heel to join the first part of the incision which has been prolonged horizontally backwards from the malleolus to the insertion of the tendo Achillis. While the last part of the incision is being made, the foot must be elevated'and flexed When marking out the incision in the left foot, the limb is rotated