FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF HUMERUS 327 condition that a radiogram will make evident—and when, therefore, it is certain that no union will take place, it is best to cut down and remove the detached head. A freely movable joint may be obtained if passive movement be resorted to soon after operation. FRACTURE OF THE GREAT TUBEROSITY. The great tuberosity may be detached without any loss of continuity in the shaft of the bone. This accident gives rise to considerable broaden- ing of the shoulder, the fragment being drawn upwards and backwards by the muscles attached to it. TREATMENT.—In this fracture the continuity of the head of the bone with the shaft is unimpaired. The fragment may not be completely detached, and may be held fairly well in position by untorn bands of periosteum. The position most favourable for good union is to carry the arm out from the side nearly to a right angle, and to rotate it well out- wards ; and this position is frequently recommended. A wedge-shaped pad, the upper angle of which is a right angle, or a well-padded splint of a similar shape, is placed in the axilla with its apex upwards in order to keep the arm in this position ; a thick flat pad is placed over the great tuberosity, and the whole is fixed in position by a bandage. This position is most irksome, and as there may be much difficulty in getting the frag- ment into position, the only really satisfactory method of treatment is to make a vertical incision, split the fibres of the deltoid, and fix the detached tuberosity in place mechanically. Special care must be taken not to injure the circumflex nerve, otherwise paralysis of the deltoid will result. This injury is rare, and the force which produces the fracture is generally so severe that there are hkely to be other injuries in the vicinity which may modify the treatment. SEPARATION OF THE UPPER EPIPHYSIS. This occurs in subjects under the age of 20, and corresponds closely in its characters to fracture of the surgical neck. TREATMENT.—-The injury resembles fracture of the surgical neck so closely both in appearance and treatment that what has already been said with regard to the one may be taken as appl3nng to the other. This particular injury possesses the added gravity that there may be arrest of development in the humerus following the damage to the epiphyseal line and, as a considerable proportion of the growth in the bone takes place at the upper epiphysis, this may lead to marked shortening. Hence an operation for fixation of the fragments should be performed at once unless the position after reduction is quite satisfactorv.