ANEURYSM 173 first point of importance is to diminish the force and rapidity of the circulation, and for this object the amount of food taken, and more par- ticularly the fluid part of it is much restricted ; the second point is to increase the coagulability of the blood. Tufnell's Method.—The plan originally described by TufncU is that most commonly employed, but its stringency is such that it can seldom be adhered to strictly for any length of time. The patient is confined to bed and is forbidden to make the slightest movement. He is put on a very limited diet with the object of diminishing the force of the circula- tion, and of rendering the blood more fibrinous and thereby favouring the deposition of clot. The diet Tufnell recommended consists of ten ounces of solid food in the 24 hours, and about eight ounces of fluid. This is given in three meals a day, which are ordered as follows : For breakfast, two ounces of bread and butter and two ounces of milk or tea ; for dinner, three ounces of mutton and three of potatoes or bread, with four ounces of claret or water ; for supper, two ounces of bread and butter and two of milk or tea. The patient should be confined to bed upon this strictly limited diet for at least two months; should improvement occur, it should be persisted in as long as the patient can tolerate it. This plan can seldom be strictly adhered to, and some relaxation of it, particularly with regard to the amount of fluids administered, soon becomes necessary. The thirst rapidly becomes intolerable, and in many cases all that can be done is to restrict the diet as much as possible without running the risk of depressing the patient unduly or exciting cardiac irritability. Drugs.—Various drugs are also administered in order to increase the coagulability of the blood. The chief of these is iodide of potassium in large doses, commencing with fifteen grains three times a day and increas- ing rapidly to thirty or forty. Chloride or lactate of calcium in cachets of five to ten grains may also be given twice daily. Injections of four to five ounces of a 2 per cent, sterilised solution of gelati)i in normal saline solution have been used with the same object. The injection should be given deeply into the buttock or into the axilla beneath the pectoral muscles. It should be repeated every three or four days until pulsation in the sac ceases or it is evident that no good effect is likely to follow the treatment. Instead of a 2 percent, solution, a i per cent, solution, using nine or ten ounces, may be employed. As many as eighteen or twenty urjections may be required. Several successful cases following this method of treatment have been reported, but that there is considerable risk attend- ing its use is evident from the number of deaths which have occurred from tetanus. Commercial gelatine is apt to contain the tetanus bacillus, and the difficulty in sterilising the solution is very great, as the efficacy of the gelatine is destroyed when the temperature is raised above a certain point. Before using the solution, it should be carefuUy tested to make sure that it is free from the tetanus bacillus ; a specially prepared gelatine may be