64 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES divided ends of the muscle are approximated (see Fig. 15). Before the stitches are tied, the muscle should be relaxed by flexing or extending the limb according to the muscle affected. More than one suture may be required, the number being regulated by the breadth of the muscle. When these fixation stitches have been tied, the approximated muscular edges may be united by means of a continuous catgat suture, the button- hole stitch (see Vol. I. p. 142) being the best. Catgut is the best material for suturing muscles. A drainage tube should be inserted and the limb placed upon a splint in the position that ensures full relaxation of the muscle. After - treatment. — This should follow the lines laid down for accidental incised wounds (see Vol. L p. 164). Full inuscular relaxation should be maintained for three days, and then may be diminished daily until, in the course of a fortnight, the muscle is put fully upon the stretch. It is important not to keep the muscle in the fully relaxed position too long, because a certain amount of adhesion is likely to form between the line of suture and the tissues around, and if pos- sible this should occur when the muscle is fully extended ; the muscular contractions will then pull upon and gradually stretch the adhesions. The patient should move the muscle voluntarily in about four weeks, but up till then only passive movement should be resorted to. If firm adhesions should form between the line of union in the muscle and the other soft parts, massage and faradism are of great assistance in breaking them up ; if necessary, they may be divided with a tenotomy knife. The uniting material is composed of fibrous tissue, but if the parts have been well approximated, and no separation occurs during healing, the line of union is narrow and firm, and the muscle is as good as ever. Fig. 15.—Method of Suturing a divided Muscle. The method of passing the sutures is shown in the right- hand side of the figure. On the left-hand side they are shown passed and tied.