METHOD OF PERFORMING A TYPICAL AMPUTATION 501 stop oozing after having l)een clamped for a little while, bnt time is saved by tying them all and there is less risk of the flaps becoming separated by blood-clot subsequently. As soon as the vessels have been tied, the main nerves should be identified, seized with forceps, pulled down and cut short ; the same may be done with any tendons projecting in the stump. SUTURING THE FLAPS.—After the bleeding has been arrested, the flaps are brought together with a continuous suture. In order to make sure that the flaps sliall be united accurately, a few inter- rupted sutures may be inserted deeply through the flaps before the continuous one is put in, as they serve to keep them temporarily in position. One of these may be introduced through the centre of tlic flaps and one 011 eitiier side. DRAINAGE.—A drainage tube sliould always be inserted and should be kept in for two or three days ; otherwise the stump is a^^t to fill with blood, owing chiefly to the oozing following the use of the tournicjuet, and this would cause delay in healing. Sloughing of the flaps has been known to occur from the pressure exerted by the blood distending tliem. A drainage tube is all the more necessary because it is impossilile to apply sufficient pressure to stop capillary oozing in amputation wounds without running the risk of causing sloughing of the flaps. The drainage tube (generally about No. 14) should he introduced if possible at the most dependent angle of the wound, and the one farthest from any possible source of septic infection—a point of importance in amputation in the upper third of the thigh or disarticulation at the hip-joint. When tlie most dependent point would bring the tube too near to some possible source of infection the tube must be inserted farther away, for the dependent position is of comparatively slight consequence. DRESSINGS.—A very large dressing should be applied, because otherwise the movements of the patient may uncover the wound. If the stump be short, a broad strip of adhesive plaster may be applied round the upper part of the dressing, half on the skin and half on the bandage, so as to prevent it from slipping down. It is not uncommon for the stump to jerk about freely after amputation, and in order to obviate this a splint should always be applied. SPLINTS.—For amputations of the lower extremity a trough of Gooch's splinting (see p. 264), made to encircle rather more than half the circumference of the limb, is excellent. The splint is covered with jaconet, upon which is laid a large mass of salicylic wool. The stump, with its dressing applied, is placed upon the splint, and padding arranged so as to afford equal support in all directions. The bandage which fixes on the splint must be applied from the extremity up\\ards, and special care must be taken that the upper turns do not exert any con- striction upon the limb ; if they do, the venous return will be interfered with, and increased oozing will ensue. In amputations through the