TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES 297 should it become so in spite of treatment, it may be necessary to imder- take operative measures designed to relieve the tension of the contracted muscles, as it is well known that muscles that are unduly stretched recover their functions slowly, if at all. The usual operation—which, however, is often disappointing—is lengthening the flexor tendons in the forearm. The actual method of performing the lengthening of the ten- dons is fully described in Chap. IX., and need not be repeated here. We prefer to do it through an H-shaped incision, the vertical limbs being at the junction of the anterior with the lateral aspects of the forearm, and the ti'ansverse one about an inch above the crease of the wrist. By this means two flaps are raised and thrown upwards and downwards to expose the flexor tendons ; if preferred, a flap may be raised with its convexity downwards. As there are many tendons to lengthen in this operation, and it is most important to join each proximal to its corresponding distal end, and as all the tendons must be cut before the fingers can be extended, and as it is therefore impossible to suture each tendon as soon as it is lengthened, we have adopted the following plan to avoid confusion : After each tendon has been raised from its bed and divided in the manner determined upon, a long silk suture is passed through each cut end well above and well below the line of section. The two ends of this suture are knotted together so that the ends of the tendon are con- nected by a long loop which does not interfere with the rest of the opera- tion, while the corresponding ends of the tendon can be found at once by traction upon its loop when it is desired to put in the permanent sutures. The division of the tendons must be practised as high up the forearm as practicable, so as to get the slight protuberance formed by the unions out of the way of the annular ligament. It is well, if possible, to divide different tendons on slightly different levels. The method of lengthening will depend upon the amount of shortening present ; the "L-method is, perhaps, the most useful. After the operation the hand is put uj) with the lingers and wrist slightly flexed, and massage and gentle passive movements are employed as soon as union has occurred. It is important that this operation should not be done until the contracture has reached its maximum, and it should not therefore be undertaken until at least three months have elapsed since the occurrence of the injury. -Another method of treatment for this condition is to resect a portion of the radius and ulna with a view of shortening these bones sufficiently to enable the Angers and the wrist to be brought into the fully extended position. The section of the bones should be oblique, and the divided ends are fastened together after the requisite amount of bone has been removed. Several cases have been treated in this manner, but un- fortunately the operation has been followed more than once by non-union of the bones. If it is done, the division of the two bones should be made at different levels.