RICKETS 465 which, at first, is diluted with double the amount of water or barley water, and to which a little sugar of milk is added. Later on, cows' milk inay be given pure. When the child is about nine months old, some farinaceous food, such as oatmeal, may be mixed with the milk, but it should be given in small quantity ; the bulk of the diet should consist of milk. Biscuits should not be administered at all until the child is nearly a year old, and then only sparingly. When the child is a year old, an egg may be given once or twice a week, and on other days a little gravy and potato, or gravy and bread. The child should not. take solid animal food until towards the end of the second year. The child should be placed under good hvgienic conditions, should be out in the open air as much as possible, should take advantage of the sunshine to the utmost, and, if possible, should be sent to the seaside or to the coun try ; the clothing should be woollen. The following regulations are in use at the Children's Hospital, Paddington Green, and may be taken as a type of regulations suitable for outpatient cases ; they may easily be adapted for use in private practice. FOOD. Between 9 and 12 months.—Give cows' milk which has been brought to the boil and slightly sweetened, i.l to 2 pints daily. Not Swiss or any form of condensed milk. Half a teaspoonful of fresh butter, or a teaspoonful of cream, may be given three or four times a day in the milk. In addition the child may be given, not oftener than twice in the day, any plain milk pudding, or porridge made with milk, or bread and milk made as follows :— Put a slice of stale bread without crust to soak in a basin of cold water for 2 hours ; then pour the water, beat up the bread, and pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. Sweeten with loaf sugar. This should be freshly made for each meal. Feed every 3 hours by day, and only once during the night. If diarrhoea or sickness comes on, or curds appear in the motions, give equal parts of cows' milk and lime water, or barley water. To make barley water, wash I teaspoonful of pearl barley, and put it in a saucepan with i pint of cold water. Let it come to the boil, and simmer beside the fire for half an liour. Strain and use as required. Should be prepared twice daily. Between 12 and 18 months.—Add to the above, potato and gravy, or half an egg, once daily. After 15 months, feed every 4 hours by day, and not at all during the night. After 18 months.—Finely minced or shredded mutton and fresh fish may be added to the above, but cows' milk should still be the principal food. On no account keep a child at the breast after it is 9 months old. Mother's milk is useless to the chUd after that age, and suckling is most injurious to the mother. It is a mistake to suppose that suckling after this time prevents pregnancy. Feed at regular times, as stated above, and not every time the child cries. Do not give cheese, pastry, shellfish, salt or fried fish, unripe or tinned fruits, nuts, sweets, tea, wine, beer, or spirits. n. II H