AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES 68 Later on, massage or electricity may be employed if there be any sign of adhesions. In the case of rupture of the quadriceps extensor femoris the leg is placed on a back splint the foot of which is raised, so as to relax the muscle as far as possible. The skin of the thigh is shaved, and a large piece of adhesive plaster, cut as shown in Fig. i8 with the lower end left free at each side, is applied over the upper portion of the ruptured muscle, and bandaged to the limb. To each free end is attached a piece of elastic tubing, which is fastened to an upright on the bottom of the splint ; as the elastic is tightened, the upper portion of the muscle is pulled down by the traction upon the skin. This method, however, is very imperfect, Fig. i8.—^Treatment of Rupture of the Quadriceps Extensor Femoris by Position. The details are given in full in the text. For the sake of clearness the bandages securing the limb to the splint have been omitted. as the actual pull upon the muscle is very slight indeed. The splint must be kept elevated for at least three weeks and is then gradually lowered until the limb is lying flat on the bed in four or five weeks. The patient should not be allowed to use the muscle until eight or ten weeks have elapsed since the injury. Subsequently, passive and active movements, massage, and electricity should be employed. In rupture of the rectus abdominis, the divided ends are approxi- mated as much as possible by diminishing the distance between the ensiform cartilage and the symphysis pubis by propping the thorax well up on a suitable bed-rest and pillows, and flexing the hip-joint by means of a large firm pillow placed beneath the knees. This pillow should be fastened to the head of the bed by a length of bandage on each side so as to prevent it from slipping, and it is well to have a firm foot-rest fixed to the bed-frame, so that the patient can brace himself against it. In Long-standing Cases.—Cases may be met with in which rupture of a muscle has occurred some considerable time before the patient is seen, and the result may be great loss of power. Much good may often be