TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES II. X The fracture is exposed by a free incision, so planned as to give the most direct and satisfactory access to the bone. Much help on this point may be gained by the aid of a radiogram. The incision should be in the long axis of the limb. The fracture is exposed without detaching the periosteum, and a thin layer of bone is chiselled off each fractured siu face and removed along with the intervening fibrous tissue. If the fractured ends overlap, extension must now be made, either by an assistant or by means of puUeys, and any tense bands should be carefully divided, provided they do not contain structures of import- ance. If necessary, muscles maybe divided at their origin or attachment in order to allow the bone ends to come into apposition. In old cases with much shortening, it often happens that full reduction cannot be obtained even after free division of the soft parts ; the bone surfaces must then be cut obliquely, and so arranged that they may be fastened together in the best position attainable. The bone ends should be cut so that one fragment will not be rototed with regard to the other when the two freshened surfaces are applied to one another. In these cases, where there is only a single bone, one fragment is very apt to be rotated in a different direction to that in which the other is; and therefore, if the bone surfaces are cut so that the relative positions of the two fragments remain unaltered when they are applied together, the limb may be in a faulty position. In deahng with Umbs in which there is only a single bone, it is always well to use some mechanical means to retain the fragments in position. Ununited fractures unite slowly after operation, and, apart from the increased security from' the^mechanical fixation of the bony surfaces, the presence of these foreign bodies may assist union by giving rise to a certain amount of persistent irritation at the seat of fracture. Fixation Methods.—Many methods have been devised for fixing the fragments together, but the choice generally lies between a wire, a screw, a peg, or a metal plate fastened with tacks or screws. The method em- ployed will depend to some extent upon the individual preference of the operator, but there are certain general mles which should be borne in mind. It is not advisable to use plates and screws of two dissimilar metals, since these form a galvanic couple, the current produced by which causes disintegration of the surrounding tissues. The same objection applies to silver-plated screws, viz. steel screws which are first coated with copper and then silver-plated. Anv breach in the plating exposes the underlying copper or steel, and in this way sets up an electrical cmxent; if screws are used, they should be steel throughout. Silver acts to a certain extent as an antiseptic, even in the metallic form; and hence, cceteris paribus, when there is any doubt as to the asepsis of the wound, as, for example, in compound fractures, a silver wire should be emplo3'ed in preference to a steel plate. The condition of the frac- ture itself will also determine the method to be employed. WTien the