169 ANEURYSM essential to do something for varicose aneurysm if possible, and it is advisable to treat aneurysmal varix, but in the latter case operation cannot be urged as being a matter of life and death. TREATMEISTT.—Of Aneurysmal Varix.—When the communication between tlie artery and tlie vein is in an accessible region, the treatment must be operative if a cure be desired; the exact procedure will depend upon the particular vessels involved. In the most usual case, namely, a communication between the brachial artery and the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, the best treatment is to ligature both the artery and vein immediately above and below the point of com- munication (see Fig. 61, A). In this way the disease is cured without opening and dissecting out the communicating part. When a large vein, such as the femoral, is involved, it is sufficient to tie the artery above and below the communication to- gether with any branches springing from the main trunk between the ligatures, which should be placed as near the orifice of communication as possible ; the vein may be left untouched. This is a matter of considerable importance in a vein such as the femoral, as ligature of it might cause oedema or even gan- grene of the limb, and lead to a long and tedious convalescence. Of Varicose Aneurysm.—In all cases situated below the middle of the thigh or the upper arm the artery should be ligatured above and below the opening of the aneu- rysm ; then the sac should be incised and the clots turned out. If possible the sac should be dissected away and the opening into the vein sewn up with a very line round needle and the finest silk passed through sterilised vaseline (see p. 163). If it should be impossible to remove the sac entirely, however, any arterial branches coming from it should be ligatured and as much as possible should be dissected away, and the remainder sewn up, the aperture into the vein being occluded first by a suture similar to that used in Matas's operation (see p. 182). This leaves the circulation in tlie vein unimpaired. If the vein be small and unimportant it should be ligatured also, and then the whole aneurysm ma.}' be dissected out. The ligature of the branches is not always easy owing to the matting of the tissues, and it is one of the advantages of opening the sac that one can often see the openings of these branches and thus can trace them. a i- a V Fig. 61.—Diagram showing the methods OF TREATMENT FOR ANEURYSMAL VaRIX AND Varicose Aneurysm. A, Treatment of an aneurysmal varix by ligature of the artery (a) above and below the communication with the vein (v). B, Treatment of a varicose aneurysm by ligature of the artery above and below, and incision of the aneurysm. In neither case need the vein be tied.