THE TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES 285 is impossible to be certain of obtaining a good result, and it is better to enlarge even a very small wound sultrciently to enable the whole of the interior and the ends of the bones to be effectively disinfected. The wound made by the surgeon can be stitched up again, and no delay in healing will take place. However, should the surgeon yield to the temptation simply to disinfect the skin and syringe out the wound, some care must be taken in carrying out the method. It is necessary to see that the lotion—preferably i in 20 carbolic—comes into contact with and washes away the clots from tlie ends of the bones, is able to escape freely, and is not driven along the planes of cellular tissue. It is well to attach a rubber catheter to the syringe, to introduce its point through the wound, and by inserting it in various directions, especially deep down, in the neighbourhood of the bones, to see that the lotion comes into contact with all the parts. The lotion should not be driven forciblv into the wound, and if the latter be small it will be necessary to enlarge it, in order to allow of the free escape of the fluid. A good }>lan to ensure that the fluid is not driven into the tissues under pressure, is to use for the purposes of the irrigation a catheter, connected with a glass funnel by a few inches of india-rubber tubing. AFTER-TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. —//' tlie attempt at securing asepsis be successful, the course of e\'ents will be the same as after ordinary operations on bone. If blood comes through the dressing during the first twenty-four hours, the bandage and the outer layers of wool should be soaked with i in 20 carbolic lotion, and a fresh dressing applied outside. The wound sliould be dressed in four days and the drainage tube removed. The limb is put up again with the wire splint incorporated in the dressings and, in many cases, need not be disturbed for several weeks. Should the attempt to obtain asepsis fail, the case must be treated as a septic wound. If a high temperature and signs of osteo-myelitis super- vene, the question of amputation will arise, and this will probably prove the safest practice when the patient is getting progressively worse, more especially when there are rigors. The amputation will be performed through or above the joint next above the fracture. It is generally found, however, that, even should the case become septic after the thorough treatment just described, the free drainage pro- vided renders extensi\-e infection of the medulla rare, and the limb may still be saved. Under these circumstances it is a question whether the plates or wires emj^iloyed to fix the bones together should be removed. This question is decided by ascertaining whether they cause much irritation ; should there be very little, they may be left in situ for some weeks, because they tend to steady the bones, but if irritation is caused they must be removed. In these septic cases frequent changes of dressings are necessary, and as the parts must be disturbed as httle as possible during the dressing lest non-union should result, special precautions are necessary. It is not