DISARTICULATION THROUGH THE ELBOW-JOINT 521 By a Large Antero-internal Flap.—An elastic bandage is placed around the upper third of the arm, the elbow is flexed to an angle of 135°, and the antero-internal flap marked out. The incision commences at the centre of the bend of the elbow, and is carried down parallel to the long axis of the humerus for about three inches. With the arm at the angle above mentioned, the incision should meet the inner border of the forearm at about this point. It is then curved backwards and upwards to the base of the olecranon. After this flap has been marked out, a somewhat similar one, but only about an inch in length (see Fig. 237), is cut from the external surface. When the flaps are retracted, the soft structiues are taken up right down to the bone. Disarticula- tion is performed by forcibly flexing the elbow, cutting through the triceps at its attachment to the olecranon, and then dividing first the lateral and then the anterior ligaments. It is recommended by some authors that the base of the olecranon should be sawn through and left m situ, so as to preserve the attachment of the triceps. This, however, is of no real advantage. The large antero-internal flap will fold completely over the lower end of the humerus, and cover the prominent internal cond3'le. The vessels requiring ligature are the brachial itself, which should be secured before the Esmarch's bandage is taken off, and a few smaller vessels, such as the terminations of the superior and inferior profunda arteries and some of the anastomotic branches about the joint. A drainage tube should be inserted at the upper angle of the flaps behind, and the arm placed in a trough of Gooch's splint upon a pillow. Various other flaps may be employed to cover in the lower end of the humerus, according to the circumstances of the case with which the surgeon has to deal. A large variety of operations have been described, such as amputation by a long anterior and a short jwsterior flap, by an external skin flap, by the circular method, and so on. It is probable that in the majority of cases the operation that we have described may not be feasible owing to the lack of sufficient soft parts, and in these the modified circular method (see p. 486) will probably have to be adopted. The obhquity of the condyles must be remembered ; the flaps must extend further downwards on the inner than on the outer side. Fig. ■ AmI'UTA- IION THROUGH THE El- Eow Joint by a Long Internal Flap. The incision for the large in- ternal flap is carried up to a corresponding point behind the joint. The relative length of the flaps may be varied to suit the circumstances of the case.