! FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT not uncommonly, a loose piece of bone between the fractured ends, or apparently some constitutional defect. In every case, the ununited fracture will have to be treated by opera- tion, and the best plan is to cut down on the fracture. The other methods of treating ununited fracture which have been mentioned (see p. 304) are very unsatisfactory compared with free exposure ; besides, there is no call to employ them in this situation, because the bone is quite superficial, and no important structures need be divided. The operation is in all respects similar to that described for ununited fracture of the tibia alone (see p. 415) ; a portion of the fibula should be removed if the ends of the tibia will not come together otherwise. For this purpose a separate incision must be made over the outer side of the leg or at some part where the fibula is easily accessible, but not necessarily at the same level as the defect in the tibia. Plates should be used to fix the fragments. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. These injuries are not common and may be dismissed in a very few words. FRACTURE OF THE ASTRAGALUS. Fracture of this bone alone is of extreme rarity. The fracture results from falls from a height upon the foot ; the bone may then fracture or become dislocated. If it fractures, the anterior part of the bone is dis- placed forwards, tlie fracture being through its neck. TREATMENT.—The treatment is difficult and will depend essen- tially on the condition of the astragalus, as shown by a radiogram; in most cases it would probably be advisable to expose the fractured bone, and in the majority of instances it would seem desirable to excise the astra- galus completely (see Vol. I.). The movement of the ankle after removal of the astragalus is remarkably good, whereas if a piece of bone be left in the joint, a satisfactory result can hardly be expected. FRACTURE OF THE OS C.ALCIS. The most common fracture in the foot is fracture of the os calcis, which may occur from falls from a height upon the heel or from the foot being run over. The result is often comminution of the upper part of the OS calcis ; the posterior portion, to which the tendo Achillis is attached, may be broken off. Many of these cases are overlooked and are treated as mere sprains. The mistake is of importance as these fractures are liable to leave much stiffness. TREATMENT.—We shall refer to the treatment of extensive com- minuted fracture, and of detachment of the posterior portion. When there