AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS 82 accompanied by much more pain and stiffness, less marked fluctuation, a tendency to the formation of abscesses, and other signs of tuberculosis. We shall describe this affection separately. TREATMENT.—Of Simple Chronic Teno-synovitis.—When the fluid is limpid and the wall of the sheath is not thickened, the best treatment is to open and dvain the sac aniiseptically. In the case of the palmar bursa, an incision is made into the sac above the annular ligament, and a drainage tube is introduced and pushed beneath the ligament into the palm ; in simple teno-synovitis it is not necessary to make an opening in the palm as well. An operation of this kind must be done with full antiseptic precautions ; otherwise it should not be adopted, for tendon sheaths are very liable to septic inflammation of an exceedingly dangerous character, leading not only to sloughing of the tendon and abscesses along its sheath, but often to general septic poisoning. The drainage tube may be removed in about fourteen days as a rule, but, if there be several drops of fluid from the tube in the course of twenty-four hours and the dressing be stained over an area the size of a two-shilling piece or more, the drainage should be continued. As soon as the stain on the dressing does not exceed the size of the orifice of the drainage tube, and does not extend deeply through the layers of the dressing, the tube m_ay be left out. While drainage is being carried out, the arm should be supported in a sling ; a splint is not usually necessary. A large dressing is applied and made to fill up the whole hollow of the hand, so that the dressing alone keeps the limb at rest. The fingers should be left free for active move- ments after ten days, and should be moved passively at intervals, whether drainage is being continued or not. If there be no adhesions, the patient may move them himself, but if adhesions have formed, they should be broken down, if necessary under a general anaesthetic, every three days at first and more frequently later on. After the drainage tube has been removed, the small incision will heal in a few days, and, as a rule, there will be no recurrence of the effusion. When this method is deemed inadvisable, or when the patient objects to an incision, the next best method of treatment is to puncture the sac, withdraw the fluid, and inject an irritant. The aspirating needle or trochar and canula must be boiled for 20 minutes, and the syringe must also be disinfected. The canula is inserted into the sac above the wrist, most of the fluid drawn off, and 20 minims of undiluted carbolic acid injected. It is not desirable to set up too much inflammation, as otherwise adhesions might form. The hand should be kept at rest on a splint for about ten days, fomentations being applied if there is much swelling or pain. Afterwards massage and movement should be employed as in the other cases. Of Villous Teno-synovitis.—In the villous form of chronic teno-syno- vitis, nothing short of excision of the tendon sheath will arrest the effusion. Removal of the fluid by a canula and injection of carbolic