INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 149 is otherwise well and there may be little or no pyrexia. These cases demand care in treatment, because the patient is apt to under-rate the dangers, and there is often considerable difficulty in persuading him to He up. The great danger in these sub-acute and chronic cases is the detachment of a portion of the clot, and immediate death from pulmonary embohsm. Another danger is that movement may lead to extension of the thrombus, and, as a result, to serious interference with the venous return and possibly pulmonary embolism later. OEdema is a frequent complication of phlebitis and thrombosis in the larger veins. How far it is due merely to the mechanical interference with the flow of the blood, and how far it is due to an altered and leaky condition of the capillaries, or to increased lymph formation or diminished lymph removal, are points which are still under discussion. TREATMENT.—In the treatment of phlebitis and thrombosis it is important to determine, in the first instance, whether the case is septic or not. In the first case the chief danger is pyjemia; in the second, pulmonary embohsm or extension of the inflammation to the main veins followed by severe oedema of the limb below. Of Acute Septic Phlebitis.—The treatment of acute septic phlebitis has already been referred to in speaking of the treatment of pyaemia (see Vol. I. Chap. IX.). Of Sub-acute and Chronic Phlebitis.—The first essential is to avoid the risk of the clot becoming detached and being carried into the general circulation. The patient should be rigidly confined to bed, and the affected part, if a hmb, put on a suitable splint and somewhat elevated ; the dangers of the affection should be explained and the patient ordered to keep quiet and avoid any muscular exertion which would tell on the inflamed vein. Warm fomentations used soon after the commencement of the disease are, as a rule, effectual both in relieving the pain and arresting the inflammation. When the pain is severe, the administration of opium may be called for ; digitalis is also useful in the acute stage when there are no symptoms to contra-indicate it. The internal administration of citric acid or potassium citrate may be beneficial in preventing a further extension of the clot in the vein. A drachm or more of the acid may be dissolved in a pint of water, and the solution drunk ad libitum. or fifteen to twenty grains of the salt may be taken in an ounce of water every four hours. After the acute pain has subsided, glycerinum bella- donncB should be smeared thickly over the part, and a layer of cottoir wool applied outside. The application should be merely spread over the surface of the skin without employing friction, otherwise there is a risk of disturbing the clot. The limb should be kept at rest for at least three weeks. It takes about that time for a clot to become organised and adherent to the wall of the vessel in which it hes, and before then there is a risk that movement may lead to its detachment. In the cUnical history of phlebitis, especially