CHRONIC BURSITIS 57 As the" result of the chronic mflammation, various changes take place in the wall of the bursa. In the early stages the bursal cavity is merely distended with fluid, and its surface becomes covered with lymph ; this leads to thickening of the wall of the bursa, and the formation of bands crossing its cavity, or tags hanging into it ; the latter may become detached, and form loose bodies. The chief cause of the constant recurrence of chronic bursitis, after it has subsided under treatment by rest and counter-irritation, is the presence of these loose bodies or tags in the bursa. As time goes on, the wall becomes more thickened and fibrous, until, ultimately, it may become converted into a fibrous tumour with a small cavity con- taining a little fluid. TREATMENT.—Radical. — The treatment of chronic bursitis should be radical wher- ever it is possible. Undoubtedly the best method is to excise the sac entirely, and thus a great deal of time is saved. Excision, moreover, is essential, when the bursal wall is much thickened, or when there are bands or loose bodies present in the interior. In excising a pre-patellar bursa, for instance, the skin about the front of the knee should be puri- fied with scrupulous care, as, owing to the thickness of the epidermis, septic material is apt to accumulate there, and is only got rid of with difficulty. A curved incision with the con- vexity upwards should be made around tlie swelling, its upper border coming just below the upper limit of the patella, and its ends terminating a little to each side, well below the centre of the tumour (see Fig. 13). The flap, thus marked out, is turned down until the anterior surface of the enlarged bursa is fully exposed, and it is then easy to see the limits of its wall, and to detach it from the con- nective tissue around with a few strokes of the knife, and peel it off unopened from the front of the bone and the ligamentum patellae. There is no danger of wounding the joint if care be taken to keep close to the sac. After the bursa has been removed, the wound is stitched up, an antiseptic dressing is applied, and the limb put upon a splint, or a thick mass of dressing applied so as to check the Fig. 13.—The Incision for Removal of the Pre- patellar Bursa. The unbroken line is the incision, the dotted one denoting the outhne of the patella.