FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES OF THE LEG 423 FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES OF THE LEG. These are among the commonest fractures in the body and, apart from the difficulties which not infrequently arise in their treatment, they are important because a considerable number are compound—according to some authors, as many as one in three or four. They may occur from direct violence, such as run-over injuries or kicks, in which case the tibia is not infrequently comminuted, the line of fracture more or less transverse, and the fracture compound. More often, however, they result from indirect violence, when the fracture in the tibia takes place at the weakest part—a short distance above the malleolus—whilst the fracture in the fibula generally occurs higher up, often near its upper end. The line of fracture is generally oblique from below upwards and backwards in both bones. When these fractures are compound it is generally due to {perforation of the skin by the sharp upper fragment of the tibia. Spiral, T-shaped, and longitudinal fractures of the tibia are met with, but the spiral and the oblique fractures are the two common forms. In a fracture from direct violence there is not necessarily any dis- placement at first; when the leg is lifted, however, the weight of the foot, of course, carries the lower fragment backwards. In an oblique fracture from indirect violence the lower fragment is pulled upwards and somewhat backwards, so that the upper fragment of the tibia projects beneath tlie skin and is apt to perforate it either at the time of the accident or subseqiiently, unless the limb he fixed in proper position. There is a tendency also for the lower fragment to rotate outwards owing to the weight of the foot, especially when the fracture is high up the bone. TREATMENT OF A SIMPLE FRACTURE.—In treating a simple fracture of the tibia and hbulain this region, the surgeon has to bear in mind the liability that there is for the fracture to become compound, and the tendency to shortening and outward rotation of the foot. In a simple fracture due to direct violence, the bones should be brought into accurate position ; the two fragments should be in the same straight line, and there should be no rotation of the foot and the lower fragment. It is well to take a radiogram in the course of a few days, before the parts become consoHdated, so as to see if the fi-actured ends are in good position. If there be much bruising of the skin it is well to disinfect it and to apply an antiseptic dressing, lest ulceration or gangrene should take place. Then the \\mh may be put up in a Croft's splint, whicli should extend from the lower third of the thigh to the root of the toes ; care must be taken to see that the foot is at riglit angles to the leg. In oblique fractures of the leg also the application of a Croft's splint before swelling occurs is the best procedure. Even if marked swelling has taken place, fixation of the part in this way will often prevent further swelling and aid the absorption of any that has already taken place. The toes must be closely watched, and tlie sensations of the patient as regards