ii6 AFFECTIONS OF NERVES altogether, but there is usually a certain amount of resemblance to the normal nerve retained, the degenerated nerve persisting as a semi- transkrcent cord, smaller and flatter than it was before. If this be examined microscopically after the lapse of a few weeks it will be found to be composed of a fibrillar structure, along which fairly large nuclei are scattered at short intervals, the whole resembling a non-medullated nerve. The resemblance is, however, only superficial, for it is impossible to demonstrate any actual axis cylinders. Regeneration commences from the central end of the nerve and progresses steadily towards the periphery. Although the axis-cylinders can grow for a considerable distance, they do not seem able to do so in indifferent tissues, at any rate for more than a short distance. For example, they cannot penetrate scar tissue, nor do they often find a new path for themselves through inter-muscular septa and subcutaneous tissue. A special track along which they can grow seems to be necessary, and the best is that provided by the degenerated peripheral portion of the nerve. When a portion of a nerve has been removed, a track has sometimes been provided, by the surgeon, by the introduction of foreign bodies {vide infra), but regeneration under these circumstances is far less certain than when the degenerated remains of the original nerve trunk are available. TREATMENT.—In all cases sirid asepsis is of the highest import- ance, both with the view of obviating the occurrence of neuritis, and also of minimising the amount of cicatricial tissue which must form between the divided ends, and which, if large, might lead to severe compression of the nerve trunk. Any foreign body present in the wound must be removed. Of Partial Division.—When the nerve is only partially divided, the best plan is to bring the two edges of the wound in it into direct contact by means of fine catgut sutures introduced through the sheath. It may be tempting to leave the divided portion unsutured, and to hope that union will progress satisfactorily because a portion of the nerve remains intact. Unless the divided portions be brought into accurate contact and secured by sutures, however, the downward growth of new nerve fibrils, by means of which regeneration of function has to take place, is apt to be irregular, and the new nerve fibrils may miss the sheath of the distal portion owing to the curling up of the divided portion. Of Complete Division.—^When a nerve is completely divided, suture of the two ends is essential. The steps of the operation differ according to the period at which the operation is done, however, and we shall therefore discuss separately the treatment of recent cases and those of long standing. Recent Cases.—When the nerve has been divid<.d completely, the divided ends should be sutured together with as little delay as possible.