FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE 421 position. Successes following the former method of treatment have been recorded, but, as a rule, the results are not satisfactory, since the astragalus is not in its normal position with regard to the articular surface of the tibia and fibula and the ankle remains as stiff as ever. We have had good results from the second method. The fracture should be freely exposed by a vertical incision over it in front, and the union divided somewhat obliquely downwards and inwards. A longi- tudinal incision should also be made over the inner border of the tibia, carried forwards on to the foot, and deepened until the lower end of the tibia is completely exposed. If it be found that the broken internal malleolus has become fused to the articular surface of the tibia by a mass of callus, so that there is no possibility of bringing the astragalus into its proper position, the remains of the internal malleolus should l)e removed, and the proper curve of the articular surface reproduced by means of a gouge. The articular cartilage will probably be found intact over the lower end of the tibia external to the base of the malleolus, and also over the greater part of the astragalus. Powerful extension should now be made and the lower end of the tibia pushed outwards, while an assistant exerts pressure on the outer border of the sole so as to drive the foot forcibly inwards. It may be necessary to remove some soft tissues between the tibia and fibula before the foot can be got inwards far enough, but after a little trouble the parts can probably be loosened completely, and the deformity made to disappear entirely, the astragalus passing into its proper position in relation to the lower end of the tibia. If possible a flap of soft tissues, as recommended by Murphy, should be turned in between the astragalus and any portion of the tibial articular surface that has been made raw. The wounds should be stitched up, and dressings applied, in which are incorporated wire splints to keep the foot inverted and to prevent the heel from being pulled backwards. Passive movement should be begun early with a view of preventing adhesion between the articular surfaces. The results are often satisfactory ; a considerable range of movement may be obtained, while the pain, of which the patient complains, dis- appears entirely. FRACTURE OF THE LOWER END WITHOUT DISLOCATION. The displacement typical of Pott's fracture does not always occur in connection with fractures of the fibula above the malleolus. Thus the injury may force the foot inwards instead of outwards, the result being that the strain is thrown on the external lateral ligament, which is usually strong enough to stand the strain, while the fibula gives way at its weakest part, namely, just above the malleolus. There is little or no displacement of the foot in this form, and, therefore, the condition is not the ordinary Pott's fracture.