INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 35 the lymphatics. The organism producing this condition is usually the streptococcus pyogenes, and lymphangitis plays an important part in the multiplication of abscesses in diffuse cellulitis, and also in septicaemia and pyaemia. SYMPTOMS.—-The symptoms of lymphangitis may be very severe, and often commence within twenty-four hours after the injury, witli shivering, headache, loss of appetite, high tempei^ature, and the presence of red lines running from the wound or primary focus of inflammation towards the nearest lymphatic glands. These red lines are generally broader than the lymphatic vessels beneath, and are accounted for by the presence of peri-lymphangitis ; they are firm, slightly raised, and often tender on palpation. Abscesses may form as the result of the escape of micro-organisms from the vessels into the tissues around. Bullae and patches of gangrene may also occur along the course of the lymphatics in very severe cases. In the simplest form there is merely a primary seat of inoculation or focus of inflammation, with red lines spreading from it, with or without swelling of the nearest lymphatic glands. When the virus is very potent the lymphangitis may be only slightly marked, and the organisms may pass on through the lymphatic vessels and reach the blood stream, and so set up rapid and fatal septicaemia. In bad cases of lymphangitis, the fever, though at first of the acute sthenic form, soon assumes the typhoid type, and in the severest forms the patient may die in from one to four days. Among the complications of this condition may be mentioned diffuse cellulitis, phlebitis, erysipelas, abscesses, and purulent affections of bursae or joints, when the lymphatics pass over or are in the immediate neigh- bourhood of these structures. TREATMENT.—Prophylactic—Wounds of all kinds must be carefully cleansed. In post moiicni wounds more especially, thorough disinfection with undiluted carbolic acid, as recommended in Vol. I. p. 164, should be systematically carried out as soon as possible after infliction of the wound. Curative.—When lymphangitis is established, it is necessary to treat the primary source, the local affection itself, and the constitutional con- dition. The primary source should receive careful attention; if it be a wound it should be thoroughly cleansed and sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid; if a localised inflammation, such as a boil, it should be freely excised, or incised and scraped out, and the raw surface left should be swabbed with the acid in a similar manner. The local affection itself is best treated by fomentations in its early stages (see Vol. I. p. 12). When the lymphangitis is very acute, it is some- times advantageous to use fomentations of a warm watery solution of carbolic acid (i in 40). Cyanide gauze soaked in this solution and not squeezed very dry is placed over the affected area, and outside it is laid a large piece of mackintosh or gutta-percha tissue overlapping it in all D z