440 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES inflammation extends to the periosteum, so that the case is a combination of chronic osteo-myehtis and chronic periostitis, and, therefore, the treat- ment of these two conditions cannot be separated. Chronic inflammations usually commence without acute symptoms, sometimes after an injury, possibly in connection with some constitutional condition, or under other circumstances that we do not exactly understand. We exclude here the chronic inflammation of bone dependent on tuberculosis, syphilis, and possibly rheumatism, though some of these chronic forms may be of so-called rheumatic origin. In chronic osteo-myelitis going on to rarefying osteitis an abscess may occasionally arise, and the rarefying osteitis may extend through the whole thickness of the dense bone, so that an external opening forms. If this be insufficient for the escape of the pus, the chronic inflammation of the bone still persists. Similarly, chronic inflammation may go on after successful removal of a sequestrum when there is not a sufficient exit for the discharge from the cavity. SYMPTOMS.—There is thickening of the bone, tenderness over the inflamed part, and often severe pain when the limb becomes warm, especially at night in bed. Tenderness is usually more marked in chronic periostitis than in chronic osteo-myelitis. In the latter affection, on the other hand, pain is more marked than tenderness and is of a neuralgic character. In both diseases the symptoms may subside for a time, but are liable to exacerbations, particularly in the chronic abscess of bone ; in this affection the patient may be comparatively free from pain for months and may then suffer from a severe attack. Radio- grams should be taken to show the extent of the disease on the surface of the bone and the condition of the medulla. When an abscess is present a cavity will be seen in the bone, and this information is of great value in deciding the extent of the operation. TREATMENT.—The treatment may be palliative or operative. We shall mention the former first, as a patient will seldom submit to operation in the first instance. Palliative.—This consists firstly in rest ; secondly, in elevation of the limb so as to improve the circulation ; thirdly, in the employment of counter-irritation, either in the form of blisters or the actual cautery, especially Corrigan's (see Vol. I. p. 21) ; and fourthly, in the adminis- tration of drugs, of which the most useful are iodide of potassium, aspirin, salicin, or salicylate of soda. Large doses of iodide of potassium will often relieve the pain very markedly, even in cases of a non- syphflitic origin ; ten grains should be given three times a day at first, but the dose should be rapidly increased up to twenty or twenty-five grains. Palliative treatment is almost always only temporary in its results ; a cure rarely results, even though the treatment be carried out for many months. As a rule, the condition improves for a time and then relapses,