2i6 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS In the latter situation no muscular fibres are divided. The former method is the one more commonly practised and the easier of performance (see Fig. 84). The arm is pulled forcibly down, whilst the skin is puUed well up over the clavicle, along which an incision about four inches in length is made down to the bone, running inwards from the level of the coracoid process. The skin is then relaxed and the shoulder pushed up, when the wound in the skin and fascia lies half an inch below the level of the clavicle. This exposes to view the clavicular attachment of the pectoralis major, which is divided in the line of the wound and to the same extent as the skin. The lower portion of the muscle is then pulled well downwards with a retractor, and the costo-coracoid membrane (which is perforated by the cephalic vein, the acromio-thoracic artery and the external anterior thoracic nerve) comes into view. These structures should be pulled to one side, and care must be taken to avoid injury to the cephalic vein and the external anterior thoracic nerve. The costo-coracoid membrane is slit up in the direction of the external wound. The upper edge of the pectoralis minor is defined and pulled downwards, whilst the vessels perforating the costo-coracoid membrane are pulled upwards and outwards. After clearing away some fat, the axillary vein appears as a large distended vessel at the lower part of the wound, whilst above the artery are the cords of the brachial plexus. The lowest of these runs alongside the vein, and should be freed along its lower border and pulled outwards while the vein is pushed inwards. The artery can now be seen between the two, but on a deeper plane, and should be cleared. The needle should be passed from within outwards so as to avoid the vein. The divided pectoralis major should be stitched together in the manner described for wounds of muscles (see p. 63); no drainage tube is required unless the patient be very fat. Ligature of the Third Part.—Besides being tied for aneurysm of the axillary itself [vide supra), the third part of the vessel is sometimes tied for aneurysm of the brachial artery high up in the arm, and is done as follows : The patient lies with the arm abducted to a right angle and the shoulders somewhat raised upon a pillow. An incision is made along the Ime of the artery, which corresponds to the inner border of the coraco- brachialis muscle, for about three inches. After the deep fascia has been divided, the inner margin of the coraco-brachialis comes into view and is puUed upwards with a retractor. The axUlary artery with its vein and the median nerve are at once exposed, and the vessel can be cleared and tied. The median nerve lies on the outer side, the ulnar nerve and the vein on the inner ; sometimes there are two venje comites in place of the large axiUary vein (see Fig. 85). The ligature is passed from within outwards, the vein being pulled downwards and the median nerve upwards. Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Axillary Artery.—(i) If the first part be ligatured above the origin of the acromio-thoracic, the