343 FRACTURES OF THE OI,ECRANON is verv old or declines an ojieration, some form of mechanical apparatus must take the place of operative interference. Should a radiogram show that the fracture is starred or comminuted, as it sometimes is, it will also be better to employ apparatus. The sim])lest is a straight splint along the front of the arm and forearm, with a pad in the bend of the elbow, so that the arm is not fully extended ; otherwise the position becomes so irksome that the patient insists on discarding the apparatus. An attempt should be made to bring the upper fragment into contact with the lower by strapping. The arm is abducted to a right angle, and narrow strips of strapping are applied with their centre above the fragment (over which is placedia small pad of boric lint), and the ends are brought obliquely downwards to the sides of the splint below the elbow ; it is well to make a small notch in the splint on either side to pre\Tnt the strapping from slipjnng. By this means the two fragments may be kei)t in appositi(jn for a time if there is not much separation. The strapping will require daily inspection and frequent renewal. If there be much effusion into the joint—as there often is in cases not operated upon—an ice-bag or a Leiter's coil may be applied over the point of the elbow. After-treatment.—The chance of bony union is comparatively slight. The limb should be kept in the extended position for about six weeks ; it must be taken off the splint from time to time, so as to allow of passive movements being carried out. \Vlien the elbow is flexed, the upper frag- ment must be carefuU}' fixed and pressed downwards in contact with the lower. There is often considerable stiffness left, in spite of the passive movement, and this is partly due to adhesions in the joint and partly to some irregularity in the cartilaginous surfaces of the bone, or to some contraction of the triceps. It maybe necessary to employ an anaesthetic to break down these adhesions ; the greatest care must be exercised to avoid tearing through the weak ligamentous union between the fragments. In Old Cases.—When a case has not been operated upon, the fibrous tissue between the fragments not infrequently becomes so stretched that there is no really effective union ; these may be looked upon as ununited fractures. The patient may consequently suffer considerable disabilit}^ especially if he has to earn his living by manual labour, and if the right arm is affected, he often applies for relief. The only effectual treatment is by operation, but favourable results are much more difficult to obtain than in recent fractures. Operation.—A flap is raised by an incision (see p. 338) with its con- \-exity downwards, and its extremities carried up the arm some distance until the upper fragment with the tendinous and muscular tissues inserted into it is exposed. The fibrous material between the fractured surfaces is cut away, and then the joint should be flexed and extended to the full extent in order to break down adhesions. The ends of the bones are next refreshed by removing a thin slice from each with a saw or chisel, until the whole area of the fracture shows