TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES is cut long enough to overlap the fracture about an inch and a half in each direction, and wide enough to embrace about three-fourths of the circumference of the bone. In the case of a tri- angular bone, two narrow slips may be cut, one for each side of the bone. These are fastened on with ordinary tin-tacks or small steel screws. This method is generally inferior to that just described, but it has the ad\'antage that a plate of any size and shape can be fashioned in a few- minutes with a stout pair of scissors. It is well not to detach the periosteum from the ends of the bone ; no doubt there is less risk of bleeding if it be Fig. 135.—ScRFvvs for use WITH Lane's Plates. There are different sizes of screws for the different plates: the drawing is full-size. Fig. 136.—Forceps for holding Screws, detached, but it is possible that the delay in union is to some extent increased by this detachment, and the plates can be fixed outside the periosteum quite firmly. The bone should always be bored for the reception of screws or pegs with a drill of suitable size ; it is very impor- tant to have a series of drills corresponding to the \'arious sizes of screws, and the one selected should be a trifle smaller than the screws that are to be used. If a fine drill be used for a stout screw, there will be great risk of splitting tlie bone. Bone-grafting.—WHien the ends of the bone are atrophied, or when there is a considerable interval between them, bone-grafts may be em- ployed with advantage. These are best obtained from the ends of the bones themselves. Portions of the bone along with the periosteum are chipped off by a chisel and wedged in between the frag- ments ; naturally, wiring or pegging the bones cannot be attempted here, but Lane's plates may be applied. When the non-union affects a part, such as the leg or forearm, in which there are iivo parallel bones, care must lie taken that the ends of both bones come into ajiposition. This is usually Tie. i;7. — A 1|, secured by means of a Plate of Aluminiumscrewed ON TO THE Bone.