FRACTURES OF THE UPPER END OF THE FEMUR 371 for an unimpacted fracture in a comparatively young and vigorous subject is as follows : The patient must be placed fiat upon the back in bed with fracture boards beneath the mattress, and the latter should be so arranged that there is the least possible disturbance involved in the action of the bowels, etc. ; the divided mattress (see p. 363) may be usefully employed for this purpose. When, after prolonged confinement to bed, the skin shows a tendency to become the seat of bed-sore, a suitable ring-pad or water-pillow should be placed beneath the pelvis, but this is best avoided in the earlier stages of the treatment, as the body is kept steadier without it. All the ordinary precautions against bed-sore must be rigorously observed (see Vol. I. p. 70). Extension.—Traction should be made upon the fractured limb until measurements show that it is the same length as the sound one; this Fig. 179.—Liston's Long Splint. The splint applied. After the splint has been put in position the free end of the upper sheet is brought around the thorax and pinned to the portion rolled up around the splint as shown above. The lower sheet is brought around the extremity and similarly fastened. The slot for preventing rotation is shown at the lower end of the splint, and the extension apparatus is also indicated. The lower extremity is slightly abducted. traction should be kept up by means of a weight and pulley applied in the usual manner, the strapping being carried half-way up the thigh so as to avoid unnecessary strain upon the ligaments of the knee. The foot of the bed is raised upon blocks so as to produce counter-extension, and a weight of from four to eight pounds is employed. The exact weight is determined by measurements of the limb and by the patient's sensations. Only such a weight should be employed as is necessary to make the two limbs of equal length. The measurements should be taken from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to either the tubercle of the tibia or the internal malleolus, and it is well to mark these spots upon the skin with an anihne pencil or with a solution of nitrate of silver at the com- mencement of the treatment, so as to be sure that the measiurements are always taken from the same points. A small pillow is placed beneath the leg just above the heel to prevent the formation of a pressure sore upon the heel, which might occur were the heel to rest upon the mattress. Liston's Long S-plini.—The next point is to overcome the eversion of B B 2