FEMORAL ANEURYSM 235 On the outer side oi the artery above is the anterior crural nerve, and lower down the long saphenous nerve. The crural branch of the genito- crural nerve is in front of, and to the outer side of the artery above, and for a short distance is within the femoral sheath. In Hunter's canal, the arterj' is covered by tlic aponeurotic covering of tlie canal, the sartorius, the skin and the deep and superficial fasciae. Behind are tlie adductor longus and magnus, and to the outer side is the vastus internus muscle. The long saphenous nerve is at first to the outer side; then it crosses the front of the artery, and finally lies on its inner side. The nerve to the vastus internus is on the outer side of the artery. The vem is posterior, and, to some extent, external to the artery. Ligature of the Common Femoral Artery.—The thigh is somewhat abducted and rotated outwards, with the knee in the semi-flexed position supported by a sandbag. An incision two or three inches long, with its centre about half an inch below Poupart's ligament is made along the line of the artery (see Fig. loi). This incision divides the skin and superficial fascia, in which enlarged lymphatic glands are often met with ; they should be pulled aside, or removed if large. A few superficial veins may also require ligature. The deep fascia is incised, the ]:iulsation of the artery felt for, a small incision made in the sheath of the vessel, and an aneurysm needle inserted around it. The ligature should be passed from the inner side, so as to avoid the vein ; a single ligature suffices for tying the femoral artery and any of the vessels lower down in the limb, and there is no objection to division of the internal and middle coats. Care must be taken not to include in the ligature the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, which descends upon the front of the artery, otherwise severe pain may result. The wound is closed without a drainage tube and the limb is disinfected, wrapped in salicylic wool, and slightly elevated. Ligature of the Superficial Femoral.—The seat of election for ligature of this \ essel is the apex of Scarpa's triangle, but when the aneurysm occupies that situation it may be necessary to tie tlie vessel in the middle or even the upper part of the triangle. The line of the vessel is the same as that of the common femoral (see p. 233). In ligaturing it at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, an incision is made in the line of the vessel with its centre about the apex of the triangle {i.e. about a hand's breadth below Poupart's ligament), dividing skin, super- ficial and deep fascia. The inner border of the sartorius then comes into view, but care must be taken not to mistake the adductor longus for this muscle, as it may be exposed should the incision be made rather too far inwards. The identification should be easy, as the fibres of the sartorius run downwards and inwards, whilst those of the adductor longus run directly downwards, or downwards and slightly outwards. The sartorius should be drawn outwards with a retractor. Should the adductor longus be at all prominent it maybe drawn to the inner side (see Fig. 102). The fascia over the femoral artery is divided, the sheath opened, the vessel