133 NEURITIS If the lamina are to be completely removed, it is simplest to apply a small trephine (one inch crown) over the root of the spinous process (see Fig. 47)—it is immaterial which, but generally the one at the upper or lower limit of the incision is selected—and a circle of bone is carefully cut out. This opens the neural canal and then it is easy to cut through the laminae on one or both sides as far out as possible with cutting pliers, guarding the dura from injury, mean- while, by a suitable spatula. When the section of the bone is complete, the lamina is removed by dividing the ligaments connecting it with those immediately above and below it. A more tedious and, perhaps, more dangerous plan is to apply a laminectomy saw (see Fig. 48) close to the junction of the lamina with the pedicle on each side and to saw it partially through, when the division is completed either with a chisel or with cutting pliers. At the root of the spinous processes the dura is separated from the bone by a greater interval than elsewhere, and therefore there is less likehhood of it being damaged. Moreover, by sawing the laminae in the position just mentioned, it is easy to pass too far outwards and miss opening the spinal canal. When the first lamina has been removed, it is easy to in- sinuate the blade of the cutting pliers beneath the next above it, and so to divide it ; the laminfe are lifted out as they are freed. In the cervical region the laminae on the affected side only will be removed (see Plate II.). Should it be decided to retain the laminae, they may be turned back in one piece, after the removal of the spinous processes and opening the spinal canal as in the former method by carefully divichng the requisite number of laminae on each side by a laminectomy saw, aided by cutting phers, and then dividing the ligaments connecting the lowest lamina of the block with the one below it, and turning up the laminae in one mass on a hinge which is formed by the ligaments connecting the uppermost Fig. 47.—Removal of the Lamin/e in Laminectomv. The spinous processes have been clipped off with the phers, and the open- ing into the spinal canal is made by means of the trephine hole seen on the uppermost neural arch. The opening is then easily enlarged, until the entire lamina is removed.