AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 300 to restrain his attempts to get out of bed. Narcotics should be given, and probably the best are chloral in doses of 25 grains by mouth or double that quantity by the rectum, bromide of potassium in doses of 30-60 grains and paraldehyde in draclim doses repeated if necessary every three hours until they take effect. As a rule, morphine should be avoided ; in some cases, however, in persons who are extremely restless, who do not respond to the use of chloral and in whom the kidneys are healthy, opium given by mouth may be extremely beneficial. Hyoscine hydro- bromide given hypodermically in doses of ^th to ;^,th of a grain is also a very powerful sedative which may succeed when the others fail. The patient should take as much nourishing food as possible; this should be concentrated and highly nutritious, beef-juice, strong soups, milk, egg and brandy, and underdone meat being administered by the mouth, or by means of the stomach tube. To allay the intense craving for stimulants, it is sometimes well to spice the food with cayenne or other condiments. When the pulse is feeble, rapid, and compressible, an ounce of brandy may be given every three or four hours; some physicians recommend an ounce of port wine every hour. Bed-sores.—In many fractures, j^articularly in elderly people, the prevention of bed-sores is of the highest importance. Their prophylaxis and treatment have been already dealt with (see Vol. I. p. 70). Necrosis.—This is a common complication of septic compound fractures ; it results from the occurrence of periostitis and osteo-myelitis, and its treatment is dealt with on p. 444. Mal-union.—By mal-union is meant union of a fracture with the fragments in faulty position. There may be shortening from either over- lapping or from angular deformity. In most cases mal-union does not give rise to any serious disability, but in some the limb may be crippled ; this is most likely to be the case if the mal-union has occurred in the neighbourhood of a joint, when the movements of the latter may be severely restricted. Causes.—Mal-union may be due to (i) imperfect reduction and coaptation of the fracture, in the first instance; (2) subsequent occurrence of deformity, owing to imperfect apparatus or to the occurrence of muscular spasm although the fracture was put up in good position at first ; (3) yielding of the callus formed during consolidation of the fracture, the result of too early removal of the sphnts (in which case the patient bears weight upon the limb before it is strong enough), or of some constitutional condition which prevents the formation of sufficiently firm bone. Treatment.—It is obvious that mal-union is preventible in the majority of cases. When it impairs the usefiilness of the limb, an attempt must be made to rectify it. An angular deformity, detected before consolidation is complete, can generally be remedied by splints properly adjusted along the concavity of the limb, combined with elastic pressure exerted over