284 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES Treatment of the Fractured Ends.—The ends of the bone should next be examined, and, if they are very dirty, a thin layer should be sawn or gouged off the surface ; any loose pieces should be removed. The whole of the wound, except the incisions made by the surgeon, should be carefully sponged with undiluted carbolic acid, which must not be allowed to run over the edges of the skin ; the fractured ends should receive similar treatment. There is no need to apprehend danger from using undiluted carbolic acid in this manner, and we are at a loss to explain the cases of carbolic gangrene which are reported, especially from America, where it is said to follow the use of even a i per cent, solution. We have never found the application of the undiluted acid to a wound lead to necrosis of anything more than microscopic portions of tissue, nor have we had any difficulty in obtaining prompt and sound healing of the wounds so treated. Certainly we emphatically deny that it causes sup- puration. On the other hand, we have found it a thoroughly satisfactory antiseptic in these cases, and it must not be forgotten that the initial triumphs of antiseptic surgery were obtained by Lord Lister, when using pure carbolic acid in the treatment of compound fractures. After the wound and all its recesses have been purified, the tourniquet is removed and any bleeding points are tied. The tourniquet is employed in these cases to arrest the oozing which, if allowed to go on, would wash off the pure carbolic acid as soon as it was applied, and would therefore interfere with its germicidal action. The position of the fractured ends of the bones should next be ascer- tained ; in the great majority of cases it will be advisable to fix them together by some mechanical means (see p. 305). When, however, there is no tendency to recurrence of the displacement after accurate coapta- tion has been secured, mechanical fixation is not necessarily called for. The greater part of the wound may then be stitched up, but a large drainage tube should be inserted at the most dependent part and, if necessary, a counter-opening should be made lest the attempt to purify the wound should have failed. Antiseptic dressings are appHed, and it is well to use a sterihsed splint of perforated block tin or wire net- ting (see p. 265) moulded to the part and incorporated with the dressings. Another sphnt of wood or metal may be appHed outside the dressings if additional security be desired ; the limb should then be put in the position best calculated to obtain relaxation of the muscles. THE TREATMENT OF A COMPOUND FRACTURE IN WHICH THE WOUND IS SMALL. When the wound is small the surgeon is frequently tempted simply to disinfect the skin, possibly syringe out the wound, and apply an antiseptic dressing. No doubt these measures suffice in some cases, particularly when the wound has been caused by the protrusion of a sharp bony fragment which has receded immediately afterwards ; it is most likely to be effectual in parts not covered by clothes. At the same time it