FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF HUMERUS fragment. It usually passes up in front, and is felt below the coracoid process, forming a projection beneath the anterior fold of the axilla. Below the projection formed by the lower end of the upper fragment there is a depression opposite the insertion of the deltoid, and the elbow is directed somewhat away from the side. This accident may be com- plicated by dislocation of the head of the bone ; probably the dislocation occurs first and the fracture takes place^subsequently. TREATMENT.—The treatment employed for fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus is, in the main, the one most suitable for the other fractures about the upper end of the bone. R e d u c t i o n.—In order to reduce the fracture satisfactorily, the patient should be put under an anaesthetic. Tlie scapula and shoulder are fixed by an assistant whilst the surgeon reduces the fracture by making extension downwards and outwards, so as to bring the lower fragment down to its proper level as a preliminary to manipulating it outwards and back- wards with the left hand in the axilla, until the fractured surfaces have been brought into accurate apposition. When the line of frac- ture is transverse, there is little risk of recurrence of the displace- ment after reduction has been properly effected ; when, however, the fracture is oblique, displacement is likely to recur, and the limb re- quires very careful immobilisation. Retentive Apparatus.—If the fracture be transverse, a simple arrangement will suffice to retain the fragments in position after the fracture has been reduced. The axilla is dusted with boric acid, and a pad (see Fig. 144) is placed in it to prevent displacement inwards of the lower fragment. The elbow is flexed, and the arm brought vertically down to the side. The base of a large triangular bandage is fastened horizontally around the arm and trunk just above the elbow. The apex of the bandage hangs downwards, and is turned up around the forearm and the point of the elbow, between the limb and the chest, over the base of the handkerchief, to which it is finally pinned (see Fig. 145). The wrist is supported by a narrow sling. Fig. 144.—Method of securing a Pad in the A.xiLLA. A piece of bandage is fastened to each end of the axillary pad and these are made to form a figure-of-eight as shown above.