145 WOUNDS the occurrence of haemorrhage. When the vein has been divided completely or almost completely across, a ligature should be put around it above and below the seat of injury ; if only the distal end, from which the blood comes, be tied, it is frequently found that coughing or some sudden movement will force out blood from the proximal end. In the case of the larger veins in the neck, another reason for tying the proximal end of the vein is to prevent the risk of entrance of air into it. This would otherwise be very likely to occur, as there is considerable aspiration during each act of inspiration, and the veins are rigid where they pass through the openings in the deep cervical fascia and do not collapse properly. An additional reason for tying large veins, when they are divided, is that the pressure which may be exerted upon the vein between the wound and the heart by the bandage put on to retain the dressings in position may interfere with the return of the blood and lead to serious Fig. 54.—Schumacher's Artery Forceps. When the ligature is arranged as shown in the figure, the forceps are made to pick up the bleeding vessel. If the ligature be then tied, it must slip off the end of the forceps instead of tying them in. haemorrhage from the open distal end ; as soon as the bandage is removed this bleeding will cease. This point should be borne in mind in cases of secondary or reactionary haemorrhage, because it is very seldom nowadays that bleeding of this kind is arterial. As a rule it will be found that when the dressing is removed the bleeding stops, and it is well, therefore, not to be in too great a hurry to open up a bleeding wound after the dressing has been taken off, unless it be quite certain that active arterial haemorrhage persists in spite of its removal. The forceps illustrated in Fig. 54 are often very useful in cases of deep-seated bleeding, as for instance in the mouth or the pelvis, and will often obviate the necessity of leaving instruments in situ. If the bleeding point can be commanded by them, there is no great difficulty in tying the ligature. In some cases, when the vein is deeply seated and it is impossible to get a ligature around it, a pair of pressure forceps applied and left in silu for from 24 to 36 hours will arrest the bleeding satisfactorily without II. L