550 AMPUTATIONS or above the middle of the thigh. The posterior flap should be about a third as long as the anterior one and both should consist merely of skin, subcutaneous tissue, and deep fascia for the first two or three inches ; then a gradually increasing thickness of muscular tissue shoidd be taken up as they are raised, as has already been described for the mixed-flap method (see p. 498). While sawing the femur, care must be taken to keep the limb horizontal and perfectly steady, and the bone should be divided at right angles to its long axis. Special care must be taken when finishing the division of the linea aspera, for the saw is apt to become locked if the assistant does not keep the limb steady, or else the bone may be fractured before it is com- pletely divided. Should the latter event happen, the sharp edge of the linea aspera must be snipped off with bone forceps or rounded off with a saw (see Fig. 227, B). A large drainage tube should be inserted at the outer angle of the wound, whilst the limb is laid in a trough of Gooch's splinting supported upon an inclined plane ; both the dressings and the splint should be fastened round the pelvis by a spica bandage. It is essential to elevate the limb in order to relax the quadriceps extensor muscle, which would otherwise pull injuriously upon the anterior flap. This method of amputation by means of long anterior and short posterior flaps, or by antero-external and postero-internal ones, is applic- able to almost any part of the thigh, and the exact position and length of the flaps can be varied according to the circumstances of the case. But irregular operations should always be performed in preference to removing an unnecessary amount of bone. Almost the only amputation which is unsuited for the thigh is that by means of a long posterior flap. DISARTICULATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. These were formerly among the most fatal and unsatisfactory opera- tions which the surgeon was called upon to perform The danger was due partly to the loss of blood at the time, partly to the profound shock occasioned by the division of large and important nerve trunks, and also in large degree to the septic infection of the wound which so constantly occurred afterwards. At the present time these dangers have much decreased, owing partly to improvements in the methods of operation and partly to the profound alteration in the treatment of wounds. The result is that, except when the operation is done for injury, the mortality is extremely slight if the patient be in good health when the operation is performed. The bleeding can be controlled satisfactorily, and the soft structures may frequently be divided comparatively low down in the thigh and the head of the bone subsequently dissected out, so that the large nerve trunks are divided at a much lower level than formerly, and the shock is