551 DISARTICULATION AT THE HIP-JOINT thereby much diminished. It is also a debated point at the present time whether the shock due to the division of the large nerve trunks may not be greatly decreased by the substitution of spinal analgesia for general anaesthesia (see Vol. I. p. 486). At any rate, it is well to try this in cases of primary amputation in the region of the hip for severe injury. Besides this, the flaps can be so planned that the line of incision is at a considerable distance from all sources of sepsis, which, combined with the improved antiseptic arrangements now in vogue, renders the avoidance of septic infection fairly certain. Disarticulation at the hip-joint has to be performed under two different sets of conditions. In the one case the nature of the disease permits of the formation of long flaps, whUst in the other the flaps have to be short. We shall describe operations suitable for each of these two main indica- tions. The operation is generally required for tumours of the femur, but it may also be necessary in bad crushes of the limb, especially when the thigh is torn off; it may be called for in widespread necrosis or extensive tuberculous disease of the femur, while some surgeons perform it for bad hip-joint disease, where the trouble has extended on to the ilium or where there is lardaceous disease—in some instances with considerable benefit. FURNEAux Jordan's operation. This is the most suitable operation for aU those cases in which it is possible to form long flaps. It consists essentially of a circular amputation of the limb well below the trochanters, and subsequent enucleation of the upper end of the bone. The vessels and nerves are divided low down, so that bleeding and shock are less severe, and the angle of the wound is at a considerable distance from any possible source of contamination. The Operation.—Towels are arranged so as to cover the whole of the lower part of the abdomen, the buttocks, and the perineum, and the most scrupulous cai-e is taken to disinfect the Umb, especially about the folds of the perineum. The femoral vessels are controlled (see p. 495), and the point at which the bone is to be divided is determined upon. A circular incision, somewhat notched at the inner side, is then made around the thigh about an inch below this point (see Fig. 252, A). This notch on the inner side is made to enable the flaps to be raised with greater ease and to be more satisfactorily sutured afterwards. The incision goes through the skin, fat, and fascia, which are now dissected up for about two inches. The muscles are next divided circularly down to the bone, retracted carefully and the bone is sawn. The next step in the operation is to secure the principal vessels, and then a vertical incision is carried up over the outer side of the femur from the circular incision to a point midway between the crest of the ilium and the top of the great trochanter, and deepened down to the bone from which