AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 4o6 A tightly-fitting knee-cap should then be applied and the patient allowed to walk with crutches. Weight may be borne upon the foot at the end of six weeks, but the patient should use crutches for two months longer, and may then take to two sticks. It will generally be nearly a year before these can be dispensed with. Owing to the great muscular atrophy which follows prolonged treat- ment by splints, and owing also to the risk of stiffness from adhesions, some surgeons avoid the use of splints, relying upon massage alone. Under this treatment it is held that many cases recover with a satisfactory limb, although with considerable separation of the fragments. This seems a somewhat exaggerated view ; and while, on the one hand, it is probably a mistake to keep up the limb for any considerable time without having careful regard to the condition of the muscles or the joint, it seems still more unsurgical to give up all chance of close union. Hence, when operation is not possible or permitted, we prefer the plan that we have just described. TREATMENT OF LONG-STANDING CASES.—Cases of ununited fracture of the patella sometimes come under observation long after the injury, because the patient desires to have something done to remove his disability. The complaint generally is that the separation between the fragments is so excessive that there is no proper control over the limb, and that, while walking upon the level is possible, there is little power when walking up or down hill or up and down stairs. This may be due to a thin elongated fibrous union between the fragments, to adhe- sions of the patella to the femur, or to adhesions within the capsule of the joint and rigidity of the articular tissues generally. There is generally considerable muscular atrophy and weakness in addition. In these cases surgeons are agreed that operation is advisable, but unfortunately the results are not nearly so satisfactory as they are in recent cases, and much time and trouble are required to obtain even a fairly satisfactory result. Secondary Suture of the Patella.—An incision is made similar to the one recommended for recent cases (see p. 398), except that the convexity of the flap should extend farther up the thigh, so as to expose the lower part of the belly of the quadriceps. After the flap has been turned down, the fibrous union between the fragments is removed, and the fractured surfaces are refreshed by means of a saw, chisel, or bone forceps. Great care should be taken to see that the direction of the two raw bone surfaces corresponds ; accurate coaptation is essential to success. Any adhesions must now be got rid of. When the patella is bound down to the femur, it may be freed by means of a knife. Any adhesions in the supra-patellar pouch, which prevent the upper fragment from coming down, should be divided with a probe-pointed knife passed into the pouch ; the knee should then be bent forcibly, so as to break down any adhesions remaining. It is important to remember that the adhesions should not be broken down until the fibrous tissue connecting the two