THE TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES 283 THE TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. In compound fractures the first and absolutely essential point is to secure asepsis of the wound. In former days compound fractures were amongst the most dangerous of injuries, and it was in connection with their treatment that Lister began his antiseptic work. Unless the wound be rendered aseptic, it becomes the seat of septic inflammatory troubles, and, the medulla of the bone being exposed, grave results frequently arise. The septic inflammation does not remain limited to the soft parts, but may spread to the medulla and extend u})\vards as a septic osteo-mye- litis, which may lead to a fatal pyxmia ; or, if the patient survive after a prolonged and dangerous illness, necrosis of the bone results and ampu- tation may become necessary. Indeed, so dangerous was compound fracture in former times that many surgeons looked on amputation as the best routine practice in the great majority of instances, even when there was no injury to vessels, nerves, etc. We now know that wounds exposing a bone or its medulla, if aseptic, are not more serious than wounds of the soft parts, and therefore there is no reason for amputation on account of the fractured bone alone, provided that the wound can be rendered aseptic. In compound fractures, however, the wound has not been inflicted by the surgeon and is therefore usually soiled, and the l)roblem is, not to prevent the entrance of micro-organisms, but to destroy those that have already gained admission ; it will of necessity happen that in a certain, fortunately small, number of cases, the attempt to render the wound aseptic fails. THE TREATMENT OF A COMPOUND FRACTURE IN WHICH THE WOUND IN THE SOFT PARTS IS CONSIDERABLE. Treatment of the Wound.—We have already referred to this (see Vol. I. p. 163) in considering the treatment of wounds inflicted accidentally, but it may be well to recapitulate it here. An anfesthetic should be administered and a tourniquet applied to the limb well above the seat of fracture. The skin for a considerable area around the wound is then washed with ether soap and strong mixture, shaved, and again washed with ether soap and strong mixture and scmbbed with a nail brush, the wound being kept covered while the surrounding skin is being disinfected. The edges of the skin around the opening which leads to the fracture should be cut away ; they are certain to be soiled and contused, and, therefore, rapid healing is not likely to occur. The wound should be enlarged as much as may be necessary to obtain thorough access to the injured parts. There need be no hesitation in making a very large incision if necessary, in order to see the condition of the deeper parts. All blood-clot should be sponged out, all foreign matter removed, and any contused tissue clipped away. The whole wound should be then scrubbed out thoroughh- with strong mixture.