10 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES the cellular tissue and the lymph spaces around, and thus set up fresh trouble. The skin around the affected area should be disinfected both before the operation is commenced and after the part has been scraped out, because the sloughs and pus from the interior are otherwise certain to re-infect the skin. The wound should be packed with moist cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform. Care must be taken not to use too much of this drug, because it may give rise to toxic symptoms ; surfaces im- pregnated with undiluted carbolic acid absorb iodoform more readily than those which have not been so treated. After-treatment.—The gauze packing is changed as often as may be necessary, probably in most cases every 24 hours, until the wound is granulating healthil}^ when skin-grafting (see Vol. I. p. 54) should be employed. Unless the surface be skin-grafted it will take a long time to heal, especially if the carbuncle be situated on the back of the neck ; in this situation the destruction of tissue may lead to inconvenient con- traction if the area be left to cicatrise. Free incision alone without scraping, such as is possible without an anaesthetic, is not nearly so good as either of the methods just de- scribed, and, while relief may be no doubt given by promoting the escape of discharge and relieving tension, the septic process is not arrested, and the healing process will be prolonged, and during it the patient will remain liable to general septic disease. If, however, the carbuncle be got rid of in one of the ways just described, and skin-grafting be employed subsequently, the duration of the case is much shortened. Anti-staphylococcic vaccine may be used in these cases, but the evidence in favour of it is not so strong as it is in the case of furunculosis (see p. 6). A carbuncle is a very acute process, and it is doubtful whether the lowering of the patient's resisting power, which occurs at the commencement of the treatment, may not be prejudicial. The value of a vaccine in these cases still remains to be proved. MALIGNANT PUSTULE OR ANTHRAX. Anthrax is a disease of the lower animals, especially of sheep and cattle, but it sometimes affects man, and comes under the notice of the surgeon in the form known as malignant pustule. The disease is due to the bacillus anthracis, which grows in the dermis and subcutaneous tissues, but has a great tendency to pass into the blood-vessels and cause general infection. It occurs especially in those, such as tanners, mattress- makers, butchers, etc., who are brought in contact with the skins and hair of infected animals, and it is caused probably in all cases by direct inocu- lation through lesions of the skin or mucous membrane. Inoculation is followed by a period of incubation, then by the appear- ance of a red spot, and subsequently of a vesicle. When the condition is fully developed, there is a central black area which is a slough, and outside this are one or more circles of small vesicles, and outside that again