FRACTURES OF SHAFT OF HUMERUS 329 TREATMENT.—Fractures of the shaft of the humerus not infre- quently fail to unite, and their treatment, therefore, demands special care. Probably the chief cause of non-union is neglect to fix the elbow-joint. In reducing the fracture it is well to employ an anaesthetic, as other- wise the muscular contraction may be very difficult to overcome and displacement may recur before tlie splints can be applied. Four splints are applied to the arm, viz., an internal straight one reaching from the a.xilla to just above the internal condyle ; an anterior straight splint reaching from the level of the coracoid process to just above the ante- cubital fossa ; a posterior splint, also straight, I'eaching from the level of the neck of the humerus to the tip of the olecranon ; and a • \ shoulder-cap which is prolonged \ below into an external angular splint reaching as far down as the lower third of the forearm. The short splints, which may be conveniently made of Gooch's splinting, should together be about two-thirds of the dia- meter of the limb in width, should be well padded, and fixed around the arm with straps and buckles. The elbow is flexed to right angle, and the forearm is put up in a position midway between pronation and supination. The wrist should be supported in a sling, and the arm fastened to the side (see Fig. 152). When the fracture is below the insertion of the del- toid, the arm should hang verti- cally at the side with the long axis of the forearm parallel to the antero- posterior plane of the trunk ; if the forearm be brought across the chest, the lower fragment will be rotated upon its vertical axis with regard to the upper. The splints should be kept on for about four or five weeks because of the liability to non-union already mentioned, but the shoulder-cap and angular splint should be removed daily after the first fortnight, so as to carry out passive movements of the elbow and shoulder-joints. During the manipulations the fracture should be carefully steadied with one hand. If the fracture be oblique, there is a great tendency for the fragments to over-iide, and it is well to have a radiogram taken (without removing the splints) as soon as possible after the fracture has been reduced, so as to Fig. 151.—Fracture of the Humerus above the INSERTION OF THE DELTOID. To show the lino of action of the muscles, n, Pectoralis maior ; b, latissimus dorsi ; c, teres major ; d, biceps ; e, deltoid.