45 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS may be acute, however, and in most cases suppuration ensues early. The suppuration begins in the substance of the gland, giving rise to an oval swelling with its long axis parallel to Poupart's ligament ; this gradually softens and points. The pus is somewhat thin and dark, and contains flakes or clots ; it is unlike the ordinary yellow pus of an acute abscess. If the abscess be opened freely, it often happens that a chan- crous ulcer forms in the groin, which may extend deeply and prove ex- tremely obstinate in healing. Treatment.—This is somewhat difficult, especially when suppuration has occurred. In the early stages, when the inflammation is not very acute, coiii- pressioii is useful. A large pad of cotton wool is laid over the inflamed glands, and kept in place by a firm, spica bandage, outside which a piece of elastic webbing is applied so as to exercise gentle pressure. The patient should be kept recumbent, and the primary sore should receive appropriate treatment. The condition may subside entirely under this treatment. Injections of carbolic acid, or similar antiseptic substances, into the glands at an early stage are not to be recommended. When the affection is progressive, however, the question as to the further procedure is somewhat difficult. Bearing in mind the obstinacy of the ulcer which follows free incision of these abscesses, and also the fact that fresh glands are apt to enlarge, and thus lead to the formation of ulcerating cavities in the groin, it is advisable to excise the affected gland, and, with it, any others in its vicinity that may be enlarged as soon as it is evident that softening of the glands is about to occur. If care be taken not to come too near to the infected gland, and more especially to avoid puncturing it during the operation, it is not uncommon for the wound to heal hy first intention, and thus the patient is saved a prolonged and tedious illness. When the glands are not adherent to the skin, a semi-lunar flap, consisting of skin and fascia, may be raised; but if the skin be thinned, or even reddened, the affected portion should be included in an oval incision and removed, special care being taken to keep wide of the glands. The incision should be carried through the fat in the groin above and below the affected area, and the whole ma^s of fat and glands removed without the latter being exposed. It is generally well to insert a drainage tube for two or three days. If there be a large abscess when the case is first seen, excision of the glands is not advisable, because the affection is wide-spread, and an extensive dissection would be required, and also because the abscess would probably/ burst during the operation, and infect the wound. Under these circumstances it is best to open up the bubo by as small an incision as possible. The organism that causes soft chancre is aerobic, and, as long as the skin is unbroken over one of these glandular abscesses, the conditio!! progresses comparatively slowly. As soon as the interior is freely exposed to the air, however, a large chancroid ulcer forms rapidly.