456 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES abscess, and cnt across by cutting pliers on each side, so that the inter- vening diseased portion can be removed along with the abscess over it. When the rib has been lifted out, a cavity containing tuberculous material is generally found beneath it, for the pus usually surrounds the rib. This part of the wall cannot be dissected away, but should be thoroughly scraped without damaging the pleura. The wound is then washed free of any tuberculous material that may have lodged in it, and stitched up. If all the tuberculous material has been removed, heahng by first inten- tion occurs, whereas if the abscess had been merely opened, scraped out, and glycerine and iodoform injected, the disease might go on for months, and spread to inaccessible parts or from one rib to another. When this treatment can be adopted in other bones it should be done. Fig. 213.—Method op Excising a Tuberculous Abscess of the Rib. The skin is left adhering to the abscess cavity and the periosteum has been divided well beyond the abscess at each end, preparatory to cutting through the rib. For example, when there is an abscess in connection with a tuberculous deposit in one condyle of the femur, a curved incision should be made over it, the flap thrown back, and the abscess wall dissected out as far as possible. After removing this, the hole in the condyle is searched for, the bone cut away all round it, and the deposit removed in the manner already described (see p. 454). When the abscess is very large, or when from its connections it cannot be dissected out, it should be laid freely open, as much of the abscess wall as possible removed with scissors and forceps, and any portions left behind thoroughly scraped. The diseased bone is then exposed and removed. After this the wound can generally be stitched up and heahng by first intention secured without further trouble. When the complete removal of the tuberculous tissue is doubtful, it is well to leave the wound open, sponge it out with undiluted carbolic acid, and stuff it with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform. In strumous dactylitis with abscess, which maybe taken as represent- ing tuberculous osteo-myehtis in the shafts of bones, similar treatment