152 AFFECTIONS OF VEINS Treatment of the Resulting CEdema.—As a sequel to phlebitis of the main vein of a limb, there will be oedema of the parts below the block, which is often severe and slow to subside. The extent and duration of the oedema depend mainly upon whether or not vessels able to carry on the circulation open into the main vein above the seat of the disease and also, in some degree, upon the general condition of the patient, the nutrition of the tissues, the presence of anaemia, etc. Hence the treatment does not by any means necessarily come to an end when the phlebitis is cured. The oedema must be treated by pressure and massage. Massage should not be begun for at least a couple of months after an attack, or carried out too vigorously, as otherwise fresh phlebitis may be set up. Even then, however, it should be very gentle in the immediate neighbour- hood of the vein. At first it should be done every morning, for about twenty minutes, the frequency and length of the sittings being gradually increased ; in the intervals, the hmb should be firmly bandaged from below upwards, and kept elevated so as to promote the circulation. When the patient is allowed to walk, an elastic bandage should be applied from the foot to above the seat of the oedema, and this should be put on before he leaves his bed and after the employment of the massage. This will be referred to again in connection with varicose veins. The patient's general health must also be attended to carefully. Plenty of nourishing food must be given, whilst amongst drugs iron and arsenic are the most useful. VARICOSE VEINS. By varix or varicose veins is meant a cordition in which the venous trtinks are both dilated and elongated. The lower extremity is the most usual seat of the disease, but the affection is also common in the hjemor- rhoidal plexus—where it is known as piles—and in the pampiniform plexus—where it is termed varicocele. When varices occur elsewhere, particularly in the upper arm, they are usually due to some congenital malformation, though they may be due to pressure on the veins, aneurys- mal varix, etc. We shall only deal here with varicose veins in the leg ; varix elsewhere is treated of in connection with the regions in which it occurs. CAUSES.—Varicose veins in the leg may be met with at almost any period of hfe, but they most frequently commence between the ages of twenty and thirty. Varix of the large trunks is much more common in men than in women—a fact accounted for by the more laborious occupa- tions of the male sex ; heredity seems to play an important part in the occurrence of the condition; anything which interferes with the circula- tion, such as pregnancy, may also lead to its production. Occupations involving long-continued standing, especially if associated with con- siderable exertion, are liable to lead to varicosity, and hence the affection