AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 28o tacks, or by steel pins introduced temporarily and removed later (see p. 305)- When there is separation of the fragments—such as in fractures of the olecranon or the patella—it is sufficient to approximate the fragments by means of a wire (see Chaps. XVII. and XX.). In fractures of the shaft of a long bone, however, particularly oblique ones, wiring is not the best method as it does not prevent movement between the ends ; moreover, the wire may cut through the bone, and shortening may recur a few days later. Hence, in oblique fractures and those in the neighbourhood of joints, or where it is necessary to fix a small piece, the fragments should be screwed or nailed together (see p. 305). PREVENTION OF ADHESIONS IN JOINTS AND MUSCLES. The best methods of preventing adhesions and promoting the nutrition of the parts may be considered under two heads—{a) the after-treatment in cases where spHnts are chiefly relied upon, and (5) the after-treatment in cases where massage is chiefly employed. When Splints are employed.—Two important points must be considered—namely, how long should absolute rest of the part be maintained, and how long should the use of spUnts be continued. The length of time required for bony union to occur varies considerably, but usually displacement is not likely to recur in the upper arm after the lapse of four weeks, and in the leg after about six weeks, and many surgeons retain the sphnts for this length of time. After the sphnts are left off, a considerable time often elapses before the patient regains the full use of the Hmb, partly because the muscles have shrunk from disuse and partly because of the haemorrhage into them, while at the points where the muscles and other soft tissues pass over the fracture adhesions are apt to occur which are difficult to get rid of. This is especially marked in fractures in the immediate vicinity of joints. In these cases, if the part be kept at rest during the whole time required for bony union, temporary stiffness of the joint at least is certain to occur; and, unless vigorous measures be taken, permanent stiffness will ensue, notwithstand- ing that the fracture may have united in good position. Hence the tendency now is to shorten the length of time during which sphnts are kept on, as far as is compatible with safety, or at any rate to take measures during the course of the treatment to prevent the occurrence of these adhesions. We shaU indicate immediately the various steps of the pro- cedure we are accustomed to employ to attain this end. Wlien Massage is mainly relied upon.—Among French sur- geons it is becoming a common practice to treat a case of fracture by massage from the first, to the almost entire exclusion of the use of splints. In some cases sphnts are practically not employed at all, whilst in most they are merely put on as a restraining apparatus in the intervals between