TRANSVERSE FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA are approximated, and tliis is an important reason wliy union by bone does not occur except after operation. The third point to remember is that the lower fragment is usually tilted forwards, and, therefore, when the upper fragment is brought down into contact with it, the cartilaginous surfaces do not lie in the same plane. The upper fragment, moreover, may be somewhat tilted, so that the broken surface looks backwards. Fourthly there is considerable laceration of the capsule. TREATMENT IN RECENT CASES.—It foUows from the above considerations that the object of the treatment mi:st be fourfold : the separation must be over- come, the layer of fibrous tis- sue and periosteum between the fractured surfaces must be re- moved, the tilting of the frag- ments must be remedied, and the rent in the capsule must be closed. Operative,—It is evident that these objects can only be effectually carried out by means of operation. We, therefore, recommend an open operation as the best treatment for recent transverse fractures of the patella. Advantages of operative t r e a t m e n t.—Sometimes the ])atient is disinclined to sub- mit to an operation and the decision does not lie with the surgeon. The patient, how- ever, should have the result of T1><; specimen shows the curling-in of the fibrous aponeurosis over the front of the bone, so that the treatment m the two cases fractured surfaces are partly hidden. lA/lcr Hel/erich.) clearly explained to him. After operation the result is practically perfect restoration of the func- tions of the limb within a very short time ; we have frequently had patients who were able to go about their business within five weeks after the injury without even using a stick. The result depends entirely on the asepsis of the wound ; if that can be assured, there is really no risk. On the other hand, progress is extremely slow in cases not treated by operation, and it is often six months or more before the patient can bear any weight upon the limb or can do without some form of apparatus for keeping the fragments together ; it is still longer before lie can dispense with crutches or a stick. During this time the muscles of the limb atroph}-, so that there is a further loss of jiower, and a very long Fig. 195.—^Transverse Fracture of the Patella.