23 TUMOURS OF THE SKIN disease goes on steadily if left to itself, and gradually destroys all the tissues that it encounters in its spread ; its rate of growth is exceedingly slow. It may occur on any part of the body, but is naost comnaonly met with on the side of the nose, just below the orbit, at the outer angle of the eyelids, and in the parotid region. The glands do not become affected. Treatment.—Excision, which was at one time the method of choice, has given way to treatment by radium, though very small rodent ulcers may be dealt with satisfactorily in this way. For the following account of the newer methods of treatment we are indebted to Mr. A. D. Reid, Radiographer to King's College Hospital:— ' Treatment of Rodent Ulcer by Radium or X-Rays.—The best method of treatment for rodent ulcer consists in the application of one of the salts of radium, and the bromide is usually employed. The radium bromide should be enclosed in a capsule preferably with one side flat. This side consists of platinum i millimeter thick. The platinum filters out the a-rays, and allows the fi- and y-rays to pass through. ' The length of time of application depends on the quality and quantity of the radium employed. ' If the radium only covers ulcerated tissue, an exposure of three or four times longer can be given than would be safe on unbroken skin. For small ulcers which are not deep, small quantities (10 mg.) are enough, but it is better to employ 50-100 mg. with the latter amount. A simple exposure of from one to four hours will be sufficient to effect healing. ' Where radium is not available, the next best method is to employ the X-Rays with which most satisfactory results have been obtained. ' The apparatus usually employed to excite the tube consists of a 10-12 inch coil worked off the continuous main or from accumulators with a mechanical interruptor such as the Mackenzie Davidson break. The tube is enclosed in an opaque shield made of rubber or lead glass with a central aperture, to which can be fitted diaphragms of different dimensions. A milliamperemeter is inserted in series with the tube. A diaphragm should be selected of such a size that it can include the whole of the area to be treated with about lialf an inch of healthy skin around. ' Operators vary in their opinions as to the exact details of technique, but the following has been abundantly tested and will be found to give excellent results. ' A tube with a 3-4 inch alternative spark gap is employed, with a current of half a miUiampere. The anode of the tube is placed six inches from the affected part and exposures of live minutes—raised after six sittings to ten—are given three or four times a week until eighteen applications have been given, when the treatment is stopped for a fortnight. In most cases considerable improvement will be noticed by this time. ' After three weeks, by which time it is usually possible to esrmiate the amount of reaction which has been produced, a second course may be