FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR 389 A assistant is not always sufficient. Before employing the pulleys a stout skein of worsted should be passed behind the ankle, crossed over the dorsum of the foot (see Fig. 192), and bandaged on with a wet bandage to prevent the loop slipping; its end is then attached to the hook of the pulley. An assistant now makes traction upon the pulley, whilst counter- extension is provided for by a perineal band fastened to a hook in the wall or the head of the table. As the extension is made, the tissues in the region of the fracture become tense, and should be divided as they are put on the stretch ; it is important to see that no large vessel or nerve is divided. After as much elongation of the limb as possible has been obtained, the extension is maintained whilst any projecting portions of bone are removed by a chisel, and a well-fitting fresh bony surface is prepared on each fragment. It is a good plan to shape the ends of the bones so that, when fastened together, they will interlock and so resist the tendency of the muscles to displace tliem (see Fig. 193). The bones are firmly fixed together by Lane's plates (see p. 307). In cases of mal-imion or non-union ac- companied by considerable shortening all the surgeon's efforts may fail to reduce the shortening materially and the best result obtainable, will be firm union with a shortened, but straight bone. This, however, will give the patient a useful limb instead of one that seriously impairs his power of locomotion. The after-treatment is similar in all respects to that described for oper- ations upon recent fractures in this situation (see p. 385). Non-union.—The operative procedure for cases of ununited fracture is essentially the same. Care is taken not to peel off the peri- osteum to a greater extent than is absolutely necessary, and the fine of fracture is refreshed by chiselling enough off the end of each fragment to get a raw bony surface exposed. The fractured ends are secured as recommended abo\'e. Afier-ireaiinoit.—It must be remembered that union after operation in cases of non-union is often slow, and that at least twelve weeks will be required before consolidation is likely to be complete, and it may be six months or more before firm union occurs. Hence care must be taken to keep the parts at rest for a sufficiently long period. The 1/ ■i B I'lo. 192.—Method of attaching Pulleys to THE Lower Extremity. In A the skein of worsted is passed round tlie ankle ; the ankle has been previously bandaged, to prevent abrasion. The whole is then wetted, and a wet bandage is applied outside the skein of worsted to prevent it slipping when the pulleys B are attached to the loop below the sole.