THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES 257 In Epiphyseal Separation.—As a general rule union takes place as in a simple fracture, wlietlier the plane of fracture be in the cartilage or in the adjacent bone. There is a risk, however, that the injurj' to the growing cartilage may interfere with the subsequent development of the bone. THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES. There are four important indications to attend to in the treatment of any case of fracture :— 1. To bring the ends of the bone level with one another, or Reduc- tion. 2. To get the ends into accurate apposition, or Coaptation. (These two manipulations are included under the term ' setting the fracture.') 3. To maintain the ends of the bones in apposition until union has taken place, or Immobilisation. 4. To promote the nutrition of the part, and to prevent adhesions in neighbouring joints and muscles. THE REDUCTION AND COAPTATION OF FRACTURES. These two processes may be considered together. Their object is to bring the ends of the fractured bone together, and to place them in accurate apposition, so that union may take place with the least possible deformity. Reduction and coaptation of a fracture are necessary when- ever there is any displacement. .Sometimes, as in fractures of the metacarpus or the jaw, this may be done by simple manipulation with the fingers, aided, if necessary, by the administration of an anaesthetic ; but mere manipulation will not suffice in the great majority of fractures affecting the long bones. The fractured ends generally overlap to some extent, and the muscles are contracted and offer resistance to the mani- pulations. Hence it is necessary to employ extension of the limb by traction in order to bring the ends of the bone to the same level before the manipulations requisite for tlie proper coaptation of the broken ends can be practised. In practically all cases except fractures of small bones it is advisable to administer an aucesthetic in order to set the fracture. Anaesthesia not only relieves pain and shock, but, by abolishing muscular contraction, it allows coaptation to be secured with the minimum amount of damage to the soft parts. A fracture has not been properl}' coapted if the overlapping recurs when the traction necessary to ensure reduction is relaxed. With rare exceptions the broken surfaces are jagged and should interlock when tlie fracture has been set properly, and the case should not be left until this object has been attained. Extension alone will not maintain the reduc- tion. On the other hand, very little force is required to prevent displace- ment when once the fracture has been properly coapted. Manipulations II. s