461 SYPHILIS mass or a diffuse infiltration of the whole bone with gummatous material. The circumscribed gummata are most frequent on the skull, where they may begin either under the periosteum, or in the diploe. They also occur frequently in the vomer, the nasal bones, the palate, the clavicle, the tibia, and the epiphyseal ends of other bones. The gummatous material spreads from the deeper layer of the periosteum into and along the Haversian canals, and leads to rarefying osteitis in its vicinity ; condensation of the bone beyond takes place, so that a bone which has been the seat of syphilitic gummatous disease presents an eroded and worm-eaten surface, due to the great size of the Haversian canals, with very dense bone around. This condition is sometimes spoken of as syphilitic caries, and considerable destruction of bone may result from it. In other cases, portions of the condensed bone may die, and thus a syphilitic sequestrum is formed, the characteristic of which is, that it is much denser and heavier than normal bone, because before dying it has been the seat of condensing osteitis ; its surface is worm-eaten from the spread of the gummatous material along the Haversian canals. These sequestra, like those of tuberculous origin, often take a long time to separate. There is not the same stalactitic new formation of bone from the periosteum in connection witli these sequestra as there is in ordinary necrosis, althougli, when tlie sequestrum is central, it may be more or less surrounded b}^ bone. In gummatous disease of bone tliere is often a good deal of pain, which is generally more intense than in the syphilitic node, of a boring character and worse at night. When gummata occur in superficial bones, they spread in the soft tissues and involve the skin, and a syphiHtic ulcer forms, at the bottom of which there is bare bone, soft on the surface but very dense underneath, so that a probe cannot be pushed into it for any distance. TREATMENT.—The treatment of gummatous disease of bone is mainly that of tertiary syphilis (see Vol. I. p. 224), but this affection is one of the forms of tertiarj^ syphilis in which surgical intervention may materially shorten the course of the case. The operation consists in opening up the affected area, scraping away the diseased tissue, chisel- ling away some of the dense bone and removing a sequestrum if one be present. The whole surface of the bone thus exposed should be sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid, stuffed wdth iodoformed gauze, and made to heal from the bottom. At the same time anti- syphilitic treatment should be carried out. Very satisfactory results may be obtained in this way ; tertiary bone syphilis is very rebellious to internal anti-syphilitic remedies alone, especially when there is an external ulcer.