313 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE fragment which practicahy consists oi the articular portion of tlie sternal end of the clavicle. COMPLICATIONS.—Comphcations are rare and usually only occur in fractures from very severe violence. The most frequent is injury to, or pressure upon the brachial plexus, leading to severe neuralgia of the upper extremity and, in bad cases, to paralysis. Paralysis due to this cause is present before the fracture is reduced ; when it occurs after reduction, it is generally due to a pad in the axilla exerting undue pressure upon the nerves there. When the fractured ends are much comminuted from severe direct violence, there may be a wound of the subclavian artery, which may lead to immediate death from haemorrhage, to the occurrence of a large heema- toma, or to the formation of a false aneurysm. True aneurysm has also followed a fracture of the clavicle a^ a result of bruising of the coats of the artery. Wounds of the pleura and even of the lung have also been described in connection with these fractures, but they are rare and are generally accom- panied by fracture of the first rib. TREATMENT. — Of the Ordinary Form.—The treatment must be directed towards correcting the threefold deformity, that is to say, the outer fragment must be carried outwards, upwards, and backwards. The results of treatment are rarely perfect as regards appearance, but the fracture imites readily and the iunctional result is almost invariably good. Recumbency.—Should the patient be a lady, it will be very desu'able to avoid leaving any deformity that would be noticeable when evening dress is worn, and the only method of ensuring this is to place the patient in bed on a hard, flat mattress with a small, narrow, hard pillow or pad between the shoulder blades and another supporting the nead only. The pillow beneath the spine must be very narrow, so that the edges of the Fig. 139.—The Handkerchief Method for treating Fractured Clavicle. The shoulders are well pulled back by the handkerchiefs looped around tliem, and the arm is sup- ported by a large elbow sling tied over the sound shoulder. The apparatus is completed by the handkerchief encircling the thorax and binding the arm to the side.