244 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS of injury to the vein. A No, 12 bougie fits the lumen of the artery fairly well, and should be pushed up through the opening in the sac until it is felt in the vessel above it, which is then cleared and tied ; the bougie is next introduced into the distal portion of the vessel, which is similarly treated. When this has been done, the vein may be identified above and below, and peeled off the sac, after which the latter should be removed en bloc. Some of the articular branches of the knee will probably open into the sac, and if these can be recognised they should be tied before the tourniquet is removed, as otherwise considerable bleeding will occur. Any clots must be turned out of the tissues around ; sometimes it may be necessary to clear them out of the knee-joint should the aneurysm have ruptured into it. Even in these cases amputation is not necessary, because the articu- lation wUl probably recover per- fectly if the operation be performed asepticaUy. A drainage tube must be inserted into the popliteal space and left in for about ten days, on account of the free oozing which often occurs. The leg should be put on a straight back splint and somewhat elevated, and the same precautions should be taken with the lower extremity as are re- quisite after ligature of the com- mon femoral (see p. 237). The operation of endo-aneurys- morrhaphy has been strongly advo- cated for the treatment of popliteal aneurysm, largely on account of the difficulty of performing the old operation satisfactorily owing to the dense adhesions between the sac and the surrounding tissues which render removal of it dangerous. Result!;.—Gangrene is not nearly so likely to occur after the old operation for popliteal aneurysm as after ligature of the femoral artery high up, because the anastomosis is better in the former operation. The anastomotica magna carries a large volume of blood to the articular arteries and the recurrent branches of the tibial. Fig. 105.—Ligature of the Right Popliteal IN THE Ham. (a) Internal popliteal nerve; (6) popliteal vein ; [c) popliteal artery ; (d) divided fibres of gastrocnemius ; (c) sural nerve.