119 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS before the wound is sewn up. An incision is then made in the hne of the nerve. The most satisfactory method for exposing the divided ends is to identify the sound nerve above the proximal end first. This can be done by means of the usual anatomical guides, and when the trunk has been thus identified, it is easily traced down until the bulbous divided end is reached. The identification of the distal portion is, however, more difficult. An attempt to expose the nerve below the point of section should first be made by using the ordinary anatomical guides, and this may be facilitated by pulling upon the proximal portion, which acts upon the distal end through the medium of the intervening fibrous tissue, and so leads to its identification. It is, however, a difficult matter to find the lower end when the nerve has been divided just before it splits up into a number of terminal branches, e.g. the median in front of the wrist. After the nerve has been identified above and below the point of division, all the fibrous tissue between the two divided ends is dissected out cleanly. The bulbous end of the proximal portion must then be shaved away with a very sharp knife, until healthy nerve fibres are exposed ; this need not imply complete removal of the bulb. The section must be kept strictly at right angles to the long axis of the nerve, and it is well to introduce some firm structure, such as a copper spatula, beneath it while making the section, in order to avoid tearing or bruising of the nerve. The upper end of the distal portion is next prepared by cutting off as much of the tapering end as is necessary to get a surface wide enough to suture to the proximal portion. There is no object in cutting off a large portion in order to look for healthy nerve fibres ; the degeneration will have progressed a long way down, and any resection of the cut end only serves to increase the gap in the nerve and to make it more difficult to obtain proper approximation. The method of uniting the divided ends will depend largely upon the amount of separation between them. This may be diminished to a great extent by grasping the proximal end of the nerve, and pulling gently upon it, so as to stretch it \\dthout rupturing any of the nerve fibres. In a long nerve, half an inch, or even more, may be gained in this manner wdthout damaging it. If the divided ends now come into apposition fairly easily, they may be united by direct suture as described above (see p. 118). Plastie Operations upon Nerves.—When the ends will not come into contact, in spite of nerve stretching and attention to the position of the limb, the surgeon has the choice of the following procedures :— (i) The interval between the ends may be bridged with strands of fine catgut, which serve as a guide along which the new fibres can spread from the proximal to the distal portion.