414 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES to keep the foot at right angles to the leg, so that, should stiffness occur, the patient can put the sole of the foot fiat on the ground ; this is also the best position from which to commence passive movement afterwards. TREATMENT OF A COMPOUND FRACTURE.—A wound is very commonly piesent in the fractures due to direct injury ; it may not communicate with the fracture, but it often does. The treat- ment of compound fractures in general has already been described (see p. 283); the difficult point in the management of the cases under considera- tion is how to provide for the due immobilisation of the fracture, and at the same time to take proper care of the wound. If the fracture be com- minuted, any detached fragments should be removed ; those that retain any connection with the tissues around should be left, after being mani- pulated into position. Then the fragments are got into position and secured as firmly as possible by means of two or more bone-plates (see Fig. 206.—Mactiniyre's Splint. Both the foot-piece and the thigh-piece are adjustable. p. 307). Any incision made by the surgeon for the examination of the wound should be stitched up, unless required for drainage, while the original wound is left open. It is useless to attempt to bring the contused edges together, because they will not unite by first intention, and besides it is necessary to provide for drainage, should sepsis occur. The limb should be put up in a Maclntyre's splint with the knee bent nearly to a right angle. The splint is provided with a foot-piece which can be inclined at an angle. The heel must be supported by passing a broad bandage across, opposite the heel, through the slots in which the foot-piece moves, and tying it behind the splint. By this means the heel can be raised or lowered to the requisite degree. The splint is padded with a folded sheet, over which is placed a piece of sterile jaconet or mackintosh, so as to prevent the sheet being soaked by discharges from the wound. Upon the splint thus prepared is placed, first, a thick layer of salicylic wool, and then pieces of cyanide gauze reaching from the ankle to the knee. These should be arranged like a many-tailed bandage, so