i6o AFFECTIONS OF VEINS necessary is to rub the limb in the upward direction with the open hand, which should be well oiled. Active exercise in moderation is also of value ; moderate walking, bicycling, horse-riding, and golf may be indulged in without fear of aggravating the disease, but the exercise should not be persisted in for too long at a time, and it should be varied as much as possible. The muscular contractions involved in these exercises help to force the blood onwards through the veins, while the exercise keeps the patient in better condition, makes him less flabby, and prevents him from putting on too much fat. The point that should be specially guarded against is continued standing, or sitting with the legs dependent. The third, and perhaps the most important, part of the palliative treatment is mechanical support to the veins. This support usually takes the form of bandages or stockings containing elastic material, which aim at supporting the vein and exerting equable pressure from below upwards. The India-rubber Bandage [Martin's] .—The most useful form of com- pression is the application of a bandage, by means of which the pressure can be varied at will, and can be so regulated that it is uniform and is always exerted in the right direction. An elastic stocking, on the other hand, unless made with extreme accuracy, is apt to press injuriously on the limb somewhere, and the compression does not vary according to the needs of the case ; the stocking, as usually made, constricts the hmb above, and so actually aggravates the mischief it is designed to alleviate. The best bandage is Martin's india-rubber bandage, perforated with holes to permit the escape of the perspiration. It is cheap and does not perish so soon as elastic webbing, while it can be kept much cleaner. It should be applied while the patient is in the recumbent position, and should reach from the instep, just behind the root of the toes, to just above the upper limit of the affected veins. Before the bandage is put on, the limb should be washed, dried, and powdered either with starch or with equal parts of oxide of zinc and starch. Many patients develop eczema or intolerable pruritus if the elastic bandage be appHed directly to the skin. A white silk or cotton stocking should therefore be drawn smoothly over the limb first ; it is well to have this washed at home so as to avoid any risk of irritation from chemicals employed at the laundry. The bandage is wound lightly round the limb in the ordinary spiral form over the stocking. A little swelling of the hmb is sure to occur when the patient assumes the upright position, and this renders the bandage sufficiently tight ; if it were put on tightly at first, the pressure would soon become intolerable. Indeed, even when put on loosely, many patients find it necessary to remove and readjust it towards the middle or end of the day, because it becomes too tight. The final turn of the bandage, either above or below the knee, must not be drawn tight, as otherwise it wiU act as a greater and constrict the hmb. The pressui-e must be uniform ; if it