AMPUTATIONS THROUGH CONDYLES OF THE FEMUR 547 in a short trough of Gooch's sphnting, elevated and secured to an inchned plane or firm pillow. This operation gives a large hooded flap which falls over the end of the femur, and the skin of this flap is dense and able to bear considerable pressure. The cicatrix is vertical, and lies partly behind the femur and partly in the hollow between the condyles. As healing goes on, it gets more drawn up upon the posterior aspect of the thigh out of the way of all pressure. The object of leaving the semilunar cartilages behind is to form a natural pad to the rounded condyles, so that the end of the stump presents a level surface well adapted to bear pressure. It is found in practice that the result is much more satisfactory when the cartilages are left behind than when they are taken away. AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE CONDYLES OF THE FEMUR. Various amputations are performed in this situation in which the line of bone section is through the condyles of the femur. This may be necessary, for example, when malignant disease of the tibia extends so high up that it is impossible to get sufficient covering after disarticulation, or when there is disease of the knee-joint itself; it may also be called for in severe injuries or septic troubles, such as extensive necrosis of the leg. lister's modification of garden's amputation. Garden's amputation is often performed at the present day, hut in our opinion the modification suggested by Lord Lister in Holmes' System of Surgery, Vol. III. p. 718, is preferable. The disadvantage of Garden's operation is that sloughing may occur in a portion of the long anterior flap, and it is evident that this risk will be diminished if the flaps be made shorter by not carrying the horns of the incision so high up the limb on each side. Lister's amputation is performed as follows :— ' The surgeon first cuts transversely across the front of the limb from side to side at the level of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, and joins the horns of this incision posteriorly by carrying the knife at an angle of 45° to the axis of the leg through the skin and fat [see Fig. 251, B]. The limb being elevated, he dissects up the posterior skin flap, and then proceeds to raise the ring of integument as in a circular operation, taking due care to avoid scoring the subcutaneous tissue ; and, dividing the hamstrings as soon as they are exposed, and bending the knee, he finds no difficulty in exposing the upper border of the patella. He then sinks his knife through the insertion of the quadriceps extensor, and ha\'ing cleared the bone immediatelj' above the articular cartilage, and holding the limb horizontally, he applies the saw vertically and at the same time transversely to the axis of the limb (not of the bone), so as to insure a horizontal surface for the patient to rest on. The popliteal arter\' and N N 2