AFFECTIONS OF NERVES ii8 If the divided ends cannot be brought together without tension, as may be the case when a portion of the nerve has to be removed, the limb should be put into the position in which the cut surfaces come into accurate contact without any tension. The sutures are inserted as follows: The needle is passed from before backwards through the whole thickness of the proximal portion of the nerve about its centre and at least a quarter of an inch from the cut surface; it is then passed through the distal portion from behind forwards in a similar manner. This stitch is tied so that it just brings the cut ends into accurate contact, without tension, otherwise it will cut its way through between the nerve fibrils. When this supporting stitch has been secured, three or four stitches are introduced around the periphery of the nerve, merely traversing its sheath so as to prevent lateral displacement of the cut ends (see Fig. 38). After-tveaiment.—The wound is closed, a drainage tube being left in, if necessary, and the limb is fixed in a position that ensures the least possible tension upon the stitches. For instance, when a nerve has been divided on the front of the wrist, the fingers, the wrist, and the elbow should be kept in the fully flexed position by a suitably moulded posterior splint. This position should be maintained for about ten days, at the end of which time the skin stitches are taken out, and active and passive movements of the finger joints are begun, care being taken not to carry them so far as to pull upon the divided ends of the nerve; the flexion of the fingers and wrists may be somewhat relaxed. During the following week the fingers may be still further extended, and they may be left out of the splint so that the patient can move them for himself. The splint may be left off in about six weeks, and massage and electricity employed. Recovery of function after division of a nerve is often slow, as long as two years often elapsing before it is complete. Cases in which Cicatrisation of the Wound has taken place.—Here a considerable time must necessarily have elapsed since the occurrence of the injury, and the appropriate treatment is what is known as ' secondary nerve-suture,' in contradistinction to the method of ' primary nerve- suture ' just described. Secondary Nerve-suture.—The first part of the operation consists in finding and preparing the divided ends, a task which is not always easy. The dissection is facilitated if the part be rendered completely bloodless, and, therefore, when the operation is being performed upon one of the nerves of the extremities, an Esmarch's bandage should be apphed higher up the Umb (see Vol. I. p. 106), and should only be kept on until the nerve ends have been identified and isolated, in order that the oozing which commonly follows its application may have time to cease spontaneously