238 SURGICAL TREATMENT' OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS increased resistance to the return of blood, and this might just turn the scale in favour of gangrene when the tissues are feeble. In vigorous, healthy individuals, however, complete transverse ligature of the vein does not seem materially to complicate matters. The Old Operation.—The old operation in this situation is performed as follows : The limb is placed in the position for ligature of the femoral artery, and the circulation is controlled by the fingers of an assistant who compresses the common femoral as it passes over the brim of the pelvis, or by a temporary ligature (see Vol. I. p. 107) around the vessel. The surgeon then makes an incision, according to the size of the aneurysm, along the course of the superficial femoral artery, and if there be sufficient room between the aneurysm and the assistant's finger it is weU to tie the femoral artery above the latter before opening the sac. The assistant then relaxes the pressure, the aneurysmal sac is laid freely open, all the clots are turned out, and the bleeding from the lower end is arrested, at first temporarily bj'' digital pressure, and subsequently by clearing the vessel and applying a ligature on the distal side of the opening. When all the clots have been turned out, it is well to isolate and clip away as much of the sac as possible. The posterior part of it is best left behind, however, as the dissection needed to separate it from the vein might easily injure the latter. When it is impossible to secure the artery on the proximal side of the aneurysm before opening the sac, a small incision must be made into the sac and plugged at once by introducing the finger into it. The finger feels for the opening of the vessel, occludes it by pressure, and the artery on the proximal side is rapidly cleared and a ligature applied to it. The finger is then withdrawn, the sac laid freely open, and the operation is finished as above described. If the circulation on the proximal side of the aneurysm can be con- trolled, Matas's operation of endo-aneurysmorrhaphy may be performed (see p. 182). RUPTURED (diffuse) FEMORAL ANEURYSM. TREATMENT.—Should the sac of the aneurysm have ruptured, the best treatment will be to control the vessel on the proximal side of the aneurysm, and then cut down upon the tumour, and turn out the clot from the sac and the tissues around. After this has been done, the surgeon has the choice of doing Matas's operation (see p. 182), or hgaturing both ends of the vessel, and, if possible, excising the sac wall. Matas's opera- tion is probably preferable if it can be done, as it may enable the direct circulation through the femoral to be maintained, or may give the collateral circulation time to become efficient. In former times rupture of a femoral aneurysm was regarded as an accident which necessitated amputation, partly on account of the great risk of gangrene if the artery were ligatured.