METHOD OF PERFORMING A TYPICAT. AMPl^TATION 495 axilla, crossing over the outer end of the clavicle, the two ends being finally tied beneath the opposite axilla. There may be a tendency for the tubing thus applied to slip if it encroaches upon the field of operation, and the plan described in the preceding paragraph may be employed to avoid this (see Fig. 222). If no assistant be available, the ends of the two bandages can be tied together over the root of the neck upon tlie opposite side. On the whole, however, the simplest plan of controlling the circula- tion when the amputation is to be performed high up tlirough the humerus by the modified circular method, is to deepen the incision and expose the brachial artery after the anterior flap has been cut, and then to divide it between two ligatures before proceeding further with tlie operation. Care must be taken not to damage the artery above the point of ligature in the subsequent steps of the operation. In certain situations, such as the shoulder and the hip, the circular elastic compression above described cannot be applied. Special means have then to be adopted. In disarticulation at the slwulder-joint it is difficult to prevent bleeding with any certainty. Many plans have been proposed for this purpose, that most commonly employed being either digital or instru- mental compression of the subclavian artery as it crosses the first rib. In order to do this efficiently it is necessary to make an incision through the skin and deep fascia just over the clavicle as for ligature of the third part of the vessel (see p. 196), and through this to introduce the thumb or a special instrument called a ' key ' 1 to compress tlie vessel. The objections to this are that it necessitates a second wound, and the compression is uncertain, since the ' key' may be displaced during the manipulations attendant upon the removal of the limb, or the assistants' fingers may become tired. The safest plan is to secure and divide the artery in the axilla between two hgatures at the commencement of the operation. The incision for this purpose may often be so planned as to mark out one of the flaps. In disarticulation at the hip-joint various contrivances have been employed for controlling the circulation, such as abdominal tourniquets, transfixion pins and forceps, rectal levers or digital pressure on the aorta or common iliac through an abdominal incision; but these are really unnecessary if the operation be begun by tying the conmion femoral vessels. In one form of operation the incision for this purpose forms part of the incision for the disarticulation, and in Furneaux Jordan's operation it is a slight addition. If this be done, the onU' vessels of con- sequence not controlled are the branches of the gluteal and obturator arteries. When Furneaux Jordan's amputation is being done, however, the ' This consists of a x-shaped piece of wood, the cross-piece being short and covered with india-rubber. The instrument should be sterilised by boiling before use.