FEMORAL ANEURYSM 237 vessels is a feeling of coldness, with ]:iain and cramp in the lower extremity. These sensations usually pass off during the first t\\'enty-four hours, and are due to deficiency in the circulation of the limb ; sometimes also there is pain about the seat of the aneurj^sm as a result of its distension by clot when coagulation takes place. Should this pain be excessive, there is no objection to the administration of full doses of morphine unless there are other features in the case which contra-indicate the use of the drug. After the lapse of twenty-four hours the toes should be examined ; as a rule they will be warm and of good colour b}' that time. The simplest way to ascertain whether the circulation is maintained is to press upon the point of the nail and force the blood out of the matrix. On relieving the pressure the blood ought to flow back again immediately, and, should it be slow in doing so, it is a sign that the circulation is much impaired. Should impairment of the collateral circulation last for forty-eight hours, it is highly probable that gangrene will occur. As the surgeon knows what vessels are blocked, he need not wait for a line of demarcation before amputating. At the same time he may wait a short time in case the gangrene should be quite limited. When the gangrene is extensive, amputation must be performed within the area of distribution of the branches of the profunda femoris and their anastomoses, that is to say, at the knee-joint. When gangrene does not take place, the consolidation and shrinking of the aneurysm go on rapidly. Consolidation is usually accompanied by pain radiating from the seat of the aneurysm down the leg, w hich may continue until the aneurysm has completely disappeared. The patient should be kept in bed for about six weeks after the operation, so as to allow a certain amount of consolidation of the clot to take place, and it is well to restrict the movements of the knee afterwards until such time as the aneurysm has almost disappeared. With this object the patient should go about upon crutches, and the knee should be fitted with a suitable casing which may be prolonged upwards so as to protect the aneurysm from injury. Fixation of the knee-joint is more especially important in cases of popliteal aneurysm. Complications.—Should the surgeon happen to puncture the vevi during the operation, the best plan is to apply two ligatures to the artery, and divide it between them ; in this way the puncture in the vein is easily exposed. It is impossible to employ pressure to stop the bleeding from the vein, as would be done under ordinary circumstances, on account of the risk of gangrene frcnn interference with the collateral circulation. The surgeon has choice of two methods in which he will be influenced by the size of the aperture in the vein ; should it be quite small, a lateral ligature will suffice to close it ; should the wound be too large for this, the vein may be stitched uj) in the manner described for the treatment of wounds of veins (see ]). 146). The entire lumen of the vessel should never be occluded if it be i^ossible to avoid it, as such a procedure would offer