265 THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES purpose is the ordinary wire netting used for fences of suitable stoutness, sterilised and moulded to the limb ; it has the great advantage that it does not interfere with the proper absorption of the discharges (see Fig. 113). Moulded splints are also made from gutta-percha, poroplastic material, and leather. They are very comfortable and may be adjusted rapidly to any particular case. A pattern should first be cut out in brown paper, and upon this the material should be shaped. Gutta-percha may be cut with a knife held obliquely or it can be cut with stout scissors after soften- ing in warm water. When cut to pattern, the gutta-percha is immersed in hot water for ten minutes; it is then taken out, laid on a dry towel, with another towel placed over it to remove the excess of moisture, and then the soft gutta-percha is rapidly moulded round the limb and secured Fig. 113.—Wire-Netting Splint. The illustration shows tlie method of incor- porating these Splints with the dressing. A few layers of gauze are placed directly over the wound, and then a large sheet of the gauze is wrapped around the limb ; outside this the wire netting is moulded to the limb, and when this has been done, the gauze is turned down over the free edges of the splint, and more dressing is added over the region of the wound outside the netting. In the figure above, two lateral splints of this netting are being applied. a l)andagc. A dry towel is interposed between the gutta-percha and the limb to prevent scalding. The splint will harden in a few minutes, and it and the temporary padding can then be removed, and the per- manent padding arranged so that the splint does not exercise undue l^ressure anywhere, while it gets a good hold. Poroplastic material may be cut with a sharp knife if the latter be held at about an angle of 43° ; if the knife be held at right angles it is difficult to cut. The splint, when cut, is softened by holding it before a fierce fire or by putting it in a steam steriliser for a short time. It then sets more slowly than if it had been softened by immersion in hot water, and this gives more time for its careful adaptation to the limb. Leather can be softened by immersion in ^^negar or a solution of acetic acid. Splints of gutta-percha, or of leather, should be perforated with holes, which should be punched from within outwards, in order to allow of the escape of perspiration from beneath.