AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 470 Should the breast-milk fail, its place must be taken by pure fresh cows' milk, and it is most important to remember that no artificial food or milk prepared otherwise than by scalding, boiling, or Pasteurising, should be given during this period except as a temporary measure because the child is unable to digest fresh milk. Even then it will be well to administer orange-, grape- or lemon-juice in teaspoonful doses twice a day. After the age of nine months, vegetables and fruit should be added to the diet, which will still be mainly milk. The subjoined table of instructions, issued to mothers at the Paddington Green Children's Hospital, may be made to serve as a model either for private or hospital practice. HOW TO BRING UP BABIES. FEEDING. I. If the Mother is perfectly healthy and has plenty of Milk, breast milk alone should be given until the infant is 8 months old. Suckle every 2 hours by day, and twice by night, until the child is 3 months old ; then suckle every 3 hours by day, and once only by night. Too frequent suckling makes the milk poor and does not satisfy the baby. The mother's nipples should be bathed with warm water both before and after suckling. Also wash the inside of the child's mouth with a small piece of clean linen and warm water after taking the breast. This will prevent ' Thrush.' Begin to wean at 8 months, and wean completely at 9 months. Between the eighth and ninth months let the child have three times a day a mixture of two parts of cows' milk and one part of barley water, sweetened with one lump of sugar or one-third of a teaspoonful of malt extract to each bottle. The cows' milk should be just brought to the boil. The barley water is made as follows : Wash one tablespoonful of pearl barley, and put it in a saucepan with one pint of cold water. Let it come to the boil, and then simmer beside the fire for half an hour. Strain and use as required. Should be prepared twice daily. II. If the Mother has only a little Milk, the child should still have it. Give also one part cows' milk and two parts barley water, made and sweetened as above. There is no harm in mixing the milks. It is better to get ordinary dairy milk than milk from one cow. Should diarrhoea or vomiting come on, give equal parts of milk, lime water and barley water. III. If for any reason the Breast cannot be given, feed as follows :— Up to 3 months.—One part of cows' milk and two parts of barley water- prepared and sweetened as above—every 2 hours by day and twice by night. Give one-sixth of a pint of the mixture at each feed, and add a little more milk each week until— Between 3 and 6 months.—Equal parts of cows' milk and then barley water may be given, to 2 pints a day. One-third of a teaspoonful of fresh butter, or a