AFFECTIONS OF NERVES 124 in a similar manner. Exposure to cold is a common cause of neuritis (Vol. I. p. i8o) ; the indolence of the ulcers that follow upon a mild degree of frost-bite has been attributed by some authorities to neuritis set up by the action of the cold. [b] General.—Among these may be mentioned alcoholism, syphilis, gout, diabetes, rheumatism, and anaemia. Neuritis due to a constitu- tional cause is apt to be multiple. PATHOLOaiOAL CHANGES.—In acute neuritis the nerve becomes distended, and softened, and its vessels are engorged; extravasa- tion takes place into the nerve, followed by degeneration of the nerve fibres. In the more chronic cases the changes are those characteristic of chronic inflammation. The nerve becomes enlarged and harder than usual ; under the microscope proliferation of the nerve sheath and formation of new fibrous tissue are seen. As it contracts, this new fibrous tissue presses upon the fibres, and causes them to atrophy. SYMPTOMS.—The nerve functions soon become impaired; in severe cases the parts supplied may permanently lose both sensation and motion, but such cases are exceptionally rare. In sensory or mixed nerves the earliest effect of the inflammation is neuralgic pain, which is accompanied by hyperesthesia of the skin supplied by the nerve ; in some rare cases epileptiform convulsions may occur as an early symptom. The neuralgic pains are at first limited to the affected nerve and its branches, but in the later stages of the affection they may spread to nerves other than that primarily affected. For example, the pain in neuralgia in one division of the trigeminal nerve is very apt to spread to the other divisions, and may even affect the corresponding nerves on the opposite side. Accompanying the hyperaesthesia are usually perversions of sensation, such as tinglings ; these are generally worse at night. Tenderness is often present over the spots at which the nerve pierces the deep fascia. It is also common for trophic changes to be met with in the part supplied by the affected nerve. The temperature of the limb may be considerably raised at first, whilst the cutaneous circulation is increased and the limb looks flushed and hot. Various skin eruptions, such as bullae followed by indolent ulcers, may also occur, whilst the nails become rough and corrugated. After a time sensation becomes less acute, and anaesthesia may gradually increase until it becomes complete. The muscles supplied by the motor fibres waste, but complete paralysis rarely occurs. Paresis generally affects only two or three of the muscles supplied by the nerve, and is seldom present except when the inflammatory process has been very acute, or has lasted so long as to disorganise the affected nerve completely. An established neuritis has a great tendency to extend along the nerve in both directions ; that is to say, it may ascend from the branches to the trunk or vice versa. Thus a condition that was at first a local or peri- pheral neuritis may develop into the more diffuse or multiple variety.