246 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS dividing into numerous branches, supplies the gluteus maximus : the latter runs forwards with the superior gluteal nerve between the gluteus medius and minimus and divides into upper and lower branches. Operation.—The patient is rolled over upon the unaffected side, and an incision four inches in length, with its centre over the point of emergence of the artery, is made along the line of the vessel. This incision will run parallel with the fibres of the gluteus maximus, which must be separated and pulled apart with retractors. The interval between the pyriformis muscle below and the gluteus medius above is sought for, and these muscles are separated and held apart. The finger then seeks for the upper edge of the sacro-sciatic notch, upon which the gluteal artery will be found beating (see Fig. io6). The vessel is isolated and a ligature applied ; care should be taken to tie it as far back as possible, because the artery divides into branches soon after its exit from the pelvis. After the vessel has been ligatured, the aneurysmal sac should be opened, the clots turned out, and the wall dissected away as completely as possible. Ligature of the Internal Pudic Artery in the Buttock,—This artery emerges from the pelvis through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, winds round the spine of the ischium and passes to the front of the innomi- nate bone through the lesser sacro-sciatic notch. The artery is tied as it lies on the posterior surface of the spine of the ischium, and this point corresponds with the junction of the lower with the middle third of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the ischial tuberosity. An incision is made somewhat obliquely to this line parallel to the fibres of the gluteus maximus and with its centre corresponding to the ischial spine. After the skin and fascia have been divided, the fibres of the gluteus maximus are separated and held apart. This shows the lower border of the pyriformis muscle with the tendon of the obturator internus below it. The vessel will be found as it passes around the spine with the nerve lying to its inner side. ■GMx .GMe Fig. loO.—Ligature of the Right Gluteai. Artery, GMx. Gluteus maximus. GMe. Gluteus medius. P. Pyriformis. A. Obturator artery. A^. Superior gluteal nerve.