FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF HUMERUS meats, some more efficient method must be employed because of the disability which follows these fractures if they are not kept in good position. The patient, therefore, should be kept in bed and a pulley extension apparatus applied to the upper arm, taking purchase just above the elbow. The arm should be away from the side, and the cord, with a \\eight of three or four pounds attached, should pass over a pulley at the side of the bed. There must be no rotation of one fragment upon the other. Counter-extension is made by a well-padded sling around the axilla, fastened to the head of the bed (see Fig. 147). At the end of ten days the patient may be allowed to get up, wearing a shoulder- cap or a Middeldorpf's splint (see Fig. 148). Extension can also be made from the elbow, when the patient is up and wearing a shoulder-cap, by means of a weight of about three pounds, the hand being kept in a sling in such a position that one frag- ment is not rotated upon the other (see Fig. 149). At the end of the third week extension may be left off, but the shoulder- cap should be kept on for another week. Mechanical Fixation of Fragments. — In any case in which the fragments can- not be got into position, or in which the dis- placement recurs after reduction, there should be no hesitation in cutting down upon and fixing the fragments in position, provided that the patient be a fit subject for operation. This will be especially called for in those cases in which the fracture runs ol:iliquely upwards through the tuberosities. A stereo- scopic radiogram will show the exact dis- placement and will be of much help to the surgeon in planning his incision, so as to approach the fracture by the shortest route. The incision will vary with the fracture. Generally the choice is between one running almost vertically down from the tip of the acromion between the fibres of the deltoid, or one rimning down along the anterior border of that muscle, curving outwards and backwards below ; its insertion may be partially detached, if necessary, to allow of proper access to the fracture. The fractured ends are got into position by means of manij:iulations aided by powerful extension exerted by an assistant. When the fractured surfaces are accurately applied to one another they are fastened together by means of Lane's plates (see p. 308). All bleeding is arrested and the wound closed, a few catgut sutures uniting Fig. i.io.—WEIGHT Extension in Fracture of the Upper End of THE Humerus. Extension applied while the patient is up. The weight is attached to the stirrup and a shoulder-cap and wrist-sling are put on. At night the two latter can be taken ofi and the extension applied as in the preceding figure.