TRANSVERSE FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA 405 away over the patella, so that the edge of the bone is surrounded by a horse-shoe shaped piece of plaster. The plaster is then bandaged to the limb, and tapes are fixed to its free lower end on each side. To these are attached pieces of elastic tubing which are fastened to hooks in the foot- l)iece of the splint (see Fig. 202). It is well also, especially in muscular or )rrital)]c subjects, to immobilise the quadriceps extensor as much as ])ossible by surrounding the thigh with strapping applied obliquely from above downwards. If sufficient extension be applied, the upper fragment of the patella is brought down into contact with the lower. After-treatment.—This apparatus should he kept on for six or eight weeks and the plaster must be renewed as often as it slips ; when this Fig. 202.—Fracture of the Patella treated by Splints. The lower fragment is fixed by oblique strips of strapping fastened to the splint, and the upper one is pulled down by the elastic apparatus shown above, and attached to the horse-shoe shaped plaster bandaged firmly to the thigh. is done, the opportunity should be taken to emploj- massage, the upper fragment being held down in contact with the lower by one hand, while massage is carried out with the other. Care must be taken to avoid a pressure-sore around the margin of the patella; a pad of boric lint between the margin of the bone and the edge of the plaster will generally prevent this. The strapping may be removed in about eight weeks, when a certain amount of fibrous union will ha\ e occurred, and this wiU not yield so long as the patient does not voluntarily contract the extensor muscles. Massage should now be applied to the quadriceps in the downward direc- tion so as not to separate the fragments, and at the same time careful movements of the patella should be emploj'ed with the view of preventing adhesions. The two fragments must be pressed together while this is being done ; the knee-joint may be flexed daily with the same precautions.