74 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES than in muscle. After the muscle or tendon has been divided, suitable apparatus is applied to maintain the position and to prevent subsequent contraction. OSSIFYIISTG MYOSITIS.—This occurs either as an affection limited to one muscle or group of muscles, or as an ossification of the entire muscular system. The localised form may be seen in the neighbourhood of fractures, where spicules of bone radiate from the fracture into the muscles which are attached in its neighbourhood ; the ossification usually commences in the tendons and extends thence into the muscle ; it may also follow injury apart from fracture, e.g. a severe blow. A similar condition also occurs around joints which are the seat of rheumatoid arthritis. Apart from these conditions, however, ossification is sometimes met with in the bellies of muscles. The most common seat is in the adductor longus, and the name given to this condition is ' rider's bone.' Here ossification occurs in the substance of the muscle, and may extend through it from end to end, rendering it entirely rigid, and interfering considerably with the movement of the limb. Among other muscles which may be affected are the deltoid or the biceps cubiti in soldiers as a result of musketry drill. The pathology of the condition is not clear. Some look on it as due at first to a ha^matoma in the muscle, followed by partial absorption of the blood, and a deposit of calcareous salts in the remainder, but in many cases true bone is actually formed. Treatment.—When the condition is limited to a single important muscle and when much disability results, the new bone should be excised. This may involve the loss of the entire muscle, but this actually benefits the patient by allowing the others to act freely once more. When the entire muscle is not involved, it is only necessary to remove the ossified portion ; if sufficient healthy muscle be left, the divided ends may be re-united. Sometimes, however, the process stops and the bone becomes absorbed. Hence, when an unimportant muscle is affected, and there is not much disability, it may be better to immobilise the limb and to watch the result by means of repeated skiagrams. The condition is apt to recur after operation, especially when the operation is limited to a mere shelling out of the bone ; a layer of muscle around the bone should always be removed as well. The generalised form of ossifying myositis is not common; it usually begins in children, especially in males. It is probably a neuropathic disorder resembling pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, and it probably affects the connective tissue of the muscle. It generally begins in the muscles about the spine, more especially the latissimus dorsi, erector spinae, and also the pectoraUs major. Whether the affection is a true inflammation or not is a matter of doubt. Treatment.—Unfortunately nothing is known that will arrest the