346 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES expose the branchialis anticus with the coronoid process embedded in it the mass of bone may then be shelled out. It is not easy to perform this operation satisfactorily through a single incision ; the external incision greatly facihtates matters, because the finger pushed through it can displace muscle and its tendon to the inner side and render them much more accessible. The connection between the muscle and the base of the coronoid process is not disturbed in this operation, and, therefore, the full power of flexion should be regained. When there is bony union with exuberant callus, the latter must be chipped off and removed. FRACTURES OF THE HEAD AND NECK OF THE RADIUS. Fractures in this situation are rare, but of great importance ; they usually result either from direct violence or from injuries occurring in connection with dislocation. In young children a fall upon the hand may produce dislocation of tne radius or separation of its upper epiphysis. In adults the injury is generally caused by a direct blow on the outer side of the arm, and we have seen cases of vertical frac- ture of the head of the radius with detachment of a portion of the head, which was lying free in the elbow-joint. In this accident there is little chance of getting union, while the loose fragment causes a mechanical obstruction to movement and leads to pain, irritation, and the formation of adhesions. The diagnosis is materially facilitated by the use of radiography. TREATMENT.—The de- tached fragment should be re- moved as soon as possible. The best method of gaining access to the head of the radius is by an incision on the posterior and outer surface of the elbow close behind the outer condyle of the humerus. It should commence just above the external condyle and run downwards and a httle backwards towards the posterior border of the ulna for about three inches. This incision will lie between the triceps and the radial extensors of the forearm above, and over the interval between the extensor carpi ulnaris and the anconeus below. When the two latter muscles are separated, the capsule Fig. 164.—Incision for Excision of the Head of THE Radius. The continuous line indicates the skin incision, the broken one the intermuscular septum through which the bone is exposed. This is an alterna- tive method to the one described in the text.