196 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS receives the supra-scapular and transverse cervical veins. The nerve to the subclavius muscle and the descending branches of the cervical plexus cross it. The outer part of the artery is behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, and is crossed from without inwards by the supra- scapular artery. Above the vessel are the brachial plexus and the omo- hyoid muscle. Behind it is the scalenus medius. The subclavian vein is in front of, and below the level of the artery. The lower end of the arterj^ lies upon the outer surface of the first rib and the first digitation of the serratus magnus. Operation.—The operation is done as follows. The patient lies on the back, with the shoulders supported on a suitable sandbag, the head turned towards the opposite side, and the arm firmly drawn down ])y an assistant skin, platysma, and the superficial cervical fascia. As soon as it is made, the skin is released, when the incision will be found to occupy the lower part of the posterior triangle, and in most cases to give sufficiently good access to the vessel. Should it be found that more room is required during the course of the operation, a vertical incision may be made upwards along the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid, taking care in doing this not to injure the external jugular vein; a triangular flap is thus formed, which is turned upwards, and stitched or hooked out of the way. The tissues at the base of the posterior triangle are sep'arated until the omo-hyoid muscle is seen crossing the space obliquely above the clavicle; the fascia along its lower edge must be divided in a direction parallel to the muscular fibres. The supra-scapular and transversalis colli veins and the termination of the external jugular vein will be seen running inwards beneath the posterior edge of the stemo-mastoid; they are usually very distended, and some of them must be divided between ligatures. The sterno-mastoid muscle with the fat and the veins be- neath it are then drawn inwards, and the omo-hyoid upwards by means or by a bandage fastened to the foot of the oper- ating table. The clavicle is thus depressed, the posterior triangle enlarged, and the artery rendered more acces- sible. The soft parts are pulled down over the clavi- cle, and a transverse incision is made immediately over Fig. 73.—Ligature of the Third Part of the Right Subclavian Artery. First stage. Showing the opening made above the clavicle by the skin incision. margin of the trapezius to the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid. The incision should go directly down to the clavicle and divides the