II INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS an oedematous and erythematous condition of the skin. In advanced cases there is enormous swelling and brawniness of the parts, and wide extension of the cedema, which, in certain situations, as in the neighbourhood of the upper air passages, may in itself be a very serious danger. This is accompanied by enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands, and, if the case be left to itself, it usually goes on to extension of the gangrene, phlebitis, lymphangitis, internal complications, and death. As regards the general symptoms, there is from the first a small feeble pulse, a dry skin, a temperature up to 104° F., and subsequently bloody urine, the patient passing into a typhoid condition in which death occurs. TREATMENT.—Prophylactic—In the first place, if there be any suspicion that the animal or the hair is contaminated with the anthrax bacillus, precautions must be taken at once to disinfect any accidental cut or scratch that may occur in those that work in contact with it. Any wound should be thoroughly cauterised, first of all with a red-hot iron, and then with undiluted carbolic acid. The skin around should be dis- infected with the strong mixture (see Vol. I. p. 50), and antiseptic dressings applied. Local.—In the milder cases the best treatment is to excise the pustule completely whenever its size and situation render this safe, and then to use the actual cautery to the wound left, and afterwards to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the cauterised area. The application of chloride of zinc pastel to the raw surface left by the excision is often practised. It is, however, not so reliable as the application of the actual cautery, and gives rise to more pain afterwards. The progress of the affection is so rapid that, unless the whole of the disease be destroyed at the first sitting, there is not much chance of the somewhat tardy action of the chloride of zinc overtaking it. Before excision, the pustule and the portion of skin to be removed should be sponged with rindiluted carbolic acid, the skin around strictly disinfected, and all concerned in the operation should wear rubber gloves. The mass to be excised should be handled only with vulsella forceps and no discharge should be allowed to contaminate the wound. All swabs or sponges used in the operation should be burnt, owing to the resistance of the spores of the bacillus anthracis to antiseptics. The wound should be stuffed with cyanide gauze. In more advanced cases the brawny swelling should be laid freely open, the slough cut away, and the raw surface thoroughly destroyed with the actual cautery, and subsequently soaked with luidiliitcd carbolic acid. In addition to these measures, some surgeons recommend injections of carbolic acid into the tissues around the pustule when there is much cedema. For this purpose a i per cent, watery solution is employed and two or three drops are injected hypodermically at numerous points in a circle ' Zinc chloride i part, extract of opium ..\|th part, and flour 4 parts. Mix with water into a stifi paste and apply for 24-48 hours. Then apply fomentations until the sloughs separate.