12 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES all around the area of redness. If the treatment prove successful, a granulating wound is left, which must be skin-grafted. Recently Sclavo has introduced a serum from which remarkable results are said to have been obtained either alone or in combination with the methods described above. We have had no personal experience of this, but the reader may consult Dr. T. M. Legge's excellent Milroy Lectures on ' Industrial Anthrax' [Lancet, March i8, 1905 et seq.). If the serum be obtainable it should certainly be used, at any rate in the more advanced cases which are the ones having a high mortality. The serum may be obtained from some of the leading chemists, or from the Lister Institute. General.—As much nourishing and easily digested food as possible must be given. Stimulants—sometimes in large quantities—will be called for, and quinine in 5 to lo-grain doses every four hours, or War- burg's tincture in drachm doses at similar intervals is also useful. Pow- dered de-emetinised ipecacuanha, in doses of 40-60 grains given every four hours as long as the patient can retain it, has been highly recommended. We have no personal knowledge of its use, but in any case it should only be tried as an adjunct to vigorous operative treatment. TUBERCULOSIS. This affection occurs in four forms : (i) Tuberculous ulceration ; (2) Tuberculous warts ; (3) Lupus ; and (4) Tuberculous nodules in the subcutaneous tissue, termed gommes scrofuleuses by the French. TUBERCULOUS ULCERATION. Tuberculous ulcers occur on the skin or mucous membranes either primarily, as the result of direct inoculation from the outside, or secondarily from infection from beneath, as after rupture of tuberculous abscesses. In phthisis, tuberculous ulcers are comparatively common on various mucous membranes, especially in the intestine, the tongue, and the throat ; they are probably due to direct inoculation of the part by the bacilli contained in the tuberculous sputum. Elsewhere, the ulceration generally results from the bursting of deeper-seated abscesses, but it may also be due to external inoculation. The tuberculous ulcers are often multiple, and form sores of various sizes with sharply cut and undermined edges. The base is usually not indurated, the granulations are greyish and imperfect, and a sort of sero-pus, which has a great tendency to form crusts, is secreted from the surface. As a rule the ulcers are not painful, except when they are situated on the lip, or about the anus, etc., when they may cause intense pain. TREATMENT.—Excision.—Tuberculous ulcerations, of course, re- quire local treatment; if possible, the best is to excise the sore as soon as its tuberculous nature is determined ; it should be done with full