233 FEMORAI. ANEURYSM those of the right (see Fig. 100). Upon the fingers may be laid a bag containing two or three pounds of shot, or a leaden weight of suitable size and shape, so as to diminish the amount of muscular effort required ; with this aid it may be ])ossible to maintain compression for a longer period than fifteen minutes. When the assistant becomes tired, a second sliould ai)ply pi'cssure higher up or lower down over the vessel, and should control the circulation before the first assistant relaxes his pressiu'e. Pressure may thus be kept up by a relay of men either until coagulation in the aneurysm is complete or until the patient can tolerate the pressure no longer. It is difficult to say exactly how long pressure should be kept uj"), as so much depends upon the individual patient. Cases are known in whicli a cure has resulted after the application of pressure for as short a time as four hours, whilst in others the duration of the treatment has been measured by days. Speaking generally, perhaps, we might say that pressure should be maintained for from four to eight hours in the first instance, and then the patient may be left alone for a day or two, so as to give the skin and soft tissues time to recover from the pressure to which they have been subjected. It not infrequently happens, under these cir- cumstances, that, although pulsation returns in the vessels when the pressure is first relaxed, coagulation still continues in the sac, and the aneurysm may be cured without any second compression being required. Should this not happen, however, and should the patient be able to bear it, the compression may be resumed the following day for four or five hours. It is well to keep the patient fully under the influence of morphine by repeated hypodermic injections, so as to diminish the pain which accom- panies the treatment and which is often very severe ; this must not be done, however, when there is renal disease. If, in spite of morphine, the pain becomes intolerable, ligature had better be employed. It has been suggested that chloroform should be administered in place of morphine, but, if this is to be done, the chief objection to operation is done away with, and it is then much better to tie the artery. Ligature of the Femoral Artery.—In the large majority of cases, the surgeon will resort to ligature of the femoral artery in preference to compression, and whenever it is feasible the superficial femoral should be the vessel tied. Should the aneurysm happen to affect the upper part of the superficial femoral or the profunda femoris, ho\^'e^■er, it will be necessary to ligature the common femoral arterj'. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of this vessel may be indicated by a line drawn from the mid-point between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symph3'sis pubis, to the adductor tubercle of the femur, when the limb is abducted and externally rotated, the knee being flexed. The first inch and a half or two inches of the artery is usually desig- nated the common femoral, the rest (below the origin of the profunda femoris) being called the superficial femoral. At its commencement