METHOD OF PERFORMING A TYPICAL AMPUTATION 503 press the limb evenly from above downwards either by the figure-of-eight method or by reversing, so as to push down and fix the skin and the muscles, and thus to relieve tension on the stump. When the free end of the stump is nearly reached, the bandage is finished off as a typical stump bandage, as follows: The last circular turn is fixed by the thumb at the centre of the limb in front, and the bandage is then brought vertically downwards over the centre of the free end of the stump, and carried up to a corresponding point on the centre of the limb behind, where it is fixed by the forefinger. From tliis point the bandage is again brought over the free end of the stumj), slightly to the opposite side of the middle line, up Fig. 228.—Gauze and Collodion Bandage for an Amputation Stump. When the collodion fastening the gauze to the front of the thigh is dry, the soft parts are pushed well down, and the gauze is then folded down over the end of the stump, applied to the posterior surface of the thigh and secured with collodion to it, being held firra until the collodion is quite dry. to the thumb, beneath which it is caught, and then similar turns are carried backwards and forwards to alternate sides of the middle line, each turn overlapping its predecessor by about two-thirds of its width until the whole of the end of the stump has been covered (see Fig. 229). Finally these vertical turns are caught and fastened beneath a few turns of the bandage carried circularly around the limb, lea\'ing the whole stump well covered in and firmly supported. In appljdng this bandage it is important that the turns which pass over the end of the stump should always be begun on the side of theUmb on which the longer flap is. For example, if the anterior flap be the longer, the bandage should be carried from the anterior surface of the limb over the end of the bone and up on to the posterior surface. Should the long flap be the posterior one, the bandage should be commenced