AMPUTATIONS THROUGH SHAFT OF FEMUR 549 AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. Amputation may be practised anywhere through the shaft of the femur. The usual situation is either at or below the middle of the bone, amputation in the lower third being especially suitable for tuberculous disease of the knee-joint. AMPUTATION BY ANTERO-POSTERIOR FLAPS. In this situation the best operation is by means of antero-posterior flaps, but lateral flaps may be employed when there is not sufficient sound skin available for an anterior one ; even the circular method may be adopted. A good result may also be obtained by antero-external and postero-internal flaps. It should be remembered in amputating through the femur that it is not necessary to sacrifice bone in order to insure the cicatrix being out of the way of its divided end, because very little weight, if any, is borne upon the end of the stump when an artificial limb is fitted, as this takes its support mainly from the pelvis. The length of the femur left is of great importance ; the function of the stump is not to carry weight, but to form a lever to work the artificial limb, and there- fore the longer the lever the more satisfactory is the result. At the same time, the scar should not lie directly over the end of the bone if it can be avoided ; in any case it is necessary to pull out the nerves and cut them short, so that their ends cannot become involved in the cicatrix. The operation used frequently to be done by transfixion, and some surgeons still prefer to cut the anterior flap from without inwards and the posterior one by transfixion. There is no great objection to this, but the flaps are more accurately fashioned if they are cut from without inwards. Preliminary Precautions.—In aU these cases the surgeon must take every possible precaution to prevent shock (see Vol. I. p. 117), not the least valuable of which is rapidity of operation. The special measures for ensuring the prevention of hemorrhage in operations in this situation have already been dealt with fully (see p. 495). If due precautions be taken it is remarkable how shght the shock often is. AMPUTATION BY ANTERO-EXTERNAL AND POSTERO-INTERNAL FLAPS. The operation which we prefer in all cases where choice is possible consists in making a flap on the anterior surface of the limb which shall be slightly antero-external rather than directly anterior ; in length this flap should be about seven-eighths of the diameter of the Umb at the point where the bone is to be divided. The object of having the flap somewhat external is to prevent the angle of union of the flaps lying over the femur, which is liable to be the case when the flaps are anterior and posterior. Moreover, it ensures the femoral artery lying in the posterior flap, and not in the angle between the flaps when the amputation is at