AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 26o thorough manipulation under an anaesthetic, it is best to cut down upon the fracture, disentangle the ends of the bones, and secure them in position. Time for effecting Reduction.—Reduction and coaptation of a fracture should always be effected as soon as possible after the accident, and, if possible, before marked effusioji has occurred ; the surgeon is then able to ascertain satisfactorily whether he has brought the ends of the bones into apposition. Moreover, as the effusion is largely due to haemorrhage resulting from laceration of the tissues by the broken ends of the bone, the sooner these are immobilised the less will be the effusion. Lastly, when an anaesthetic is not to be used for the purpose, it is easier to effect reduction immediately after the occurrence of the fracture, because the patient is suffering from shock, and hence there is less rigidity and less difficulty in bringing the ends of the bone into apposition, while at the same time he does not appreciate the pain as much as he does after the shock has passed off. It has been customary to describe cases in which immediate reduction is not to be attempted, and in which some time should be allowed to elapse before the fracture is reduced—for example, those in which there is great swelling about the fracture or excessive spasm (as in cases of incipient delirium tremens). The same line of treatment is recommended when some time has elapsed since the occurrence of the fracture and there is great swelling. But in all these cases there would be less trouble in reducing the fracture, less pain caused to the patient, and less likelihood of the occurrence of local troubles if the broken ends were brought into position at once. Fresh swelling will not occur, because the ends of the bones will be at rest; spasm can be readily overcome by an anaesthetic, and the limb can be so put up that the fracture cannot be subsequently displaced, even by the most violent movements. The longer the time allowed to elapse between the injury and the reduction of the fracture, the greater will be the difficulty in effecting it, because of the rapid consohdation of the effusion that has been poured out, and the consequent difficulty of stretching the soft parts sufficiently to get the ends of the bone into apposition. When a fracture is reduced, it should be done once and for all, and the surgeon should then immediately proceed to apply some form of retentive apparatus designed to immobilise the parts. Should suitable fixation apparatus not be at hand when the surgeon first sees the case, he should content himself with applying some form of temporary fixation to the fragments, without making any attempt to bring them into apposi- tion. Then, as soon as possible, he should complete his arrangements for the reduction of the fracture and the permanent maintenance of the broken ends in position. To attempt a partial reduction in the first instance, to apply a temporary splint, and then to come back again and repeat the reduction before applying a permanent one is to lacerate the tissues twice instead of once, and to cause a much greater effusion than would result if the advice we have just given were followed.