168 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES indication that enough has been added to the water to enable it to soUdify into a mass which will not crack and will not set too rapidly. When the saturation point has been reached, and not until then, the plaster should be stirred with the hand until it is of the consistency of thin cream. The outer layer of each lateral splint is immersed in this, and thoroughly impregnated with it. As each piece is impregnated, it is raised from the plaster in the vertical position, and any excess upon its surface removed by passing the hands down it (see Fig. 115). As each layer is prepared, it is laid upon its corresponding unplastered portion which remains on the table. This finishes the preparation of the splints ; the next step is to bandage them on. Each lateral splint (consisting of the inner unplastered and the outer plastered layer) is raised and applied to its respective side of the limb; and, while this is being done, the surgeon sets the fracture and Fig. 116.—Croft's Splint. Bandaging on the lateral portions. The surgeon holds the fracture in good position and the foot at right angles, while an assistant keeps the lateral portions in position at their upper end, and a second assistant applies the muslin bandage. holds the limb in position, taking care to see that the foot is at right angles to the leg. As he does this, he grasps the foot-piece of the two lateral splints, whilst an assistant holds them together at the upper part of the thigh ; a second assistant bandages them rapidly in place (see Fig. 116) with bandages of book-muslin, about tw'o and a half inches wide. They should be steeped in hot water and applied smooth^, evenly, and without any compression. The plaster shrinks shghtly as it dries, and, therefore, if the splints were tightly bandaged on there would be a risk of compression as they dr}''. The bandaging must be done rapidly, as otherwise the plaster sets before it is done, and the splint will not fit smoothly. It is important not to impregnate the flannel with the plaster until everything is ready for the application of the splints, as the plaster is fairly firm by the time the bandaging has been completed. Extension should be maintained until this has occurred. After the splint has been applied, a hood of cotton-wool is put over the toes, and the limb left exposed upon the bed for some hours to dry.