113 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS When a cicatrix is causing compression of a main nerve trunk, the nerve and any branches that may be involved must be freed just as is done when the compression is caused by callus. When only the terminal filaments of the nerve are involved in cicatricial tissue, the best plan is to dissect out the scar freely ; this removes the ends of the nerves that are pressed upon. When the end of a nerve is mvolved in the scar of an amputation, it is advisable, in addition, to excise a portion of the nerve, so that it cannot be compressed again. The wound is then closed, so as to secure union by first intention ; if necessary a plastic operation or immediate skin-grafting may be em- ployed, so as to ensure a minimum amount of fresh cicatricial tissue. Operation must be undertaken before neuritis has become established, otherwise it will be useless. Division of the filaments of the nerve implicated in the scar with a tenotomy knife introduced beneath it often fails to divide all the filaments involved, and, moreover, the divided nerves may unite, when the patient's troubles will reciu". When the Cause cannot be removed.—When it is impossible to remove the cause of compression, the treatment will depend upon whether a motor or a sensory nerve is involved. If it be a motor nerve alone, no interference is called for, but if a sensory or a mixed nerve be affected, the compression may cause so much pain and hyperassthesia, and may set up such a severe ascendmg neuritis, that something must be done to give the patient relief. Not only is the pain intolerable if the case be left alone, but the neuritis set up by the compression is apt to spread up the trunk and involve other branches of the nerve, and thus to extend the painful area. Under these circumstances the advisabihty of dividing the nerve above the area of compression must be considered. Experience shows that it is better to resect a portion of the nerve than merely to divide it—in other words, neurectomy is a better operation than neurotomy. In a mixed nerve this, of course, abolishes the motor as well as the sensory functions, but paralysis of motion is already present when the nerve is badly compressed, and the abolition of sensation is what is desired by the patient. Whenever it is possible, therefore, the nerve should be exposed above the seat of compression, and a portion removed. In some cases, however, the nerve cannot be exposed above the seat of pressure, as, for example, when an inoperable intra-pelvic tumour presses upon the sacral ple.xus. In these cases, however, and also in those in which the pain has recurred after a previous neurectomy, it may be advisable to open the spinal canal and divide the posterior nerve roots. This is described on p. 130. When operative interference is not possible or desirable, the surgeon must be content to relieve the pain by means of anodynes, such as in- jections of morphine or cocaine. When the compression is caused by II I