36 AFFECTIONS • OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS directions. In this way lieat and moisture are obtained, vvliile at the same time the carbolic acid may be absorbed by the skin, and, passing along the same lymphatic trunks as the poison itself, may exert a direct action upon the organisms. This can hardly effect a true disinfection, but an attenuation of the virulence of the organisms may possibly be brought about by its means. If carbolic fomentations be employed, care must be taken not to cover too large an area with them, as other- wise a poisonous amount of the drug may be absorbed. It is further important to remember that carbolic acid should not be used when renal disease is present. In any case, the urine should be examined for carboluria, and if this or any other sign of carbolic acid poison- ing be detected, the fomentations should be changed for those of boric acid. When abscesses form or diffuse cellulitis occurs along the course of a lymphatic vessel, incisions must be made at once, and the treatment proper for acute abscess and diffuse cellulitis adopted ; this has been already described (Vol. I. Chap. II.). The constitutional treatment must also be attended to. The strength of the patient must be kept up, and stimulants should be given freely, with quinine in doses of ten grains every four hours until symptoms of cinchonism set in. The patient should have plenty of nourishing food, and the bowels should be kept acting regularly. The general treatment is identical with that already described for acute inflammation (see Vol. I. p. 14). Antistreptococcic serum may be employed in these cases, and should be used without delay if it can be demonstrated by examination of the blood or of the discharges from the wound that the streptococcus pyogenes is the actual causal agent at work. Recently the so-called ' polyvalent serum '■—i.e. sera from animals immunised against several different strains of streptococcus—has been introduced, and will probably replace the older serum. The dose of the serum is usually indicated for each preparation, the ordinary one being 20 c.c. The general view is that large doses should be given, and should be repeated frequently; in the first twelve hours another 20 c.c. should be given, and then two or three further injections of 10 c.c. each at intervals of twelve hours. Injection of the serum may be followed by pains in the joints with some effusion or urticarial skin eruptions and severe itching, usually at the end of a week or ten days. The temperature may be slightly raised, and there is often some general malaise. The point of primary importance in making the injections is to be sure that everything used is aseptic. Syringes are sold for the purpose which can be safely disinfected by heat. The syringe is boiled for at least a quarter of an hour immediately before use, and the skin at the proposed seat of injection is purified in the ordinary manner (see Vol. I. p. 99). After the injection has been made, for choice beneath the skin