89 GANGLION swellings which may give rise to a good deal of aching and some disability. They move laterally with the tendon and vertically also when the fingers are moved. They may also occur in connection with joints ; this variety is most often seen about the back of the wrist, where they communicate with the synovial cavity. In this form the sac is often multilocular, whilst in those connected with the finger tendons it is usually single. TREATMENT.—The simplest method of treatment is to burst the ganglion, and so disperse its contents into the cellular tissue, and then to favour obliteration of the cavity by pressure. This may sometimes be done when the wall of tlie sac is thin, and good pressure can be made against the subjacent bone. The swelling is squeezed against the bone by one or both thumbs ; if sufficient pressure be exerted, the ganglion suddenly gives way. The compression is maintained, and the part kneaded until the contents of the sac have been pressed out into the cellular tissue. A graduated compress is then apphed, a piece of hnt about the size of the ganglion being first placed over the spot, a somewhat larger piece outside, and then one larger still, until sufficient has been •put on to enable the bandage to apply effectual pressure ; outside the last layer of lint may be placed a piece of metal or wood about the size of a penny, so as to press the ^^•alls of the sac together, in the hope that they will adhere. The bandage is left on for a week, and then nothing further is necessary. If the ganglion be cured, there will be no further trouble ; if not, it will refill. This treatment is successful in a consider- able number of cases, and it should be tried as a first measure. If the ganglion refill after rupture, or if the sac be too firm to burst, the next procedure is to puncture the skin with a fine tenotome at a little distance fi'om the ganglion, make the knife pass right across the sac through the wall on the opposite side, and then to cut horizontally so as to divide the wall of the ganglion. The tenotomy knife is then withdrawn, and the contents of the sac are squeezed out into the cellular tissue. Collodion is painted over the skin puncture, and a pad and bandage are applied firmly over the seat of the ganglion as described above, and left on for about a week. The distribution of vessels and nerves in the vicinity must be borne in mind whilst performing this small operation, and in some situations this method cannot be emploj'ed lest injury to these structures should result. It is important to remember that the ganglion will refill if the sac wall be merely punctured ; a wide opening must be made, through which tlie contents can be evacuated into the cellular tissue around. In some cases the ganglion persistently refills after rupture or division ; in others it may be so situated that it can neither be ruptured nor safely divided with a tenotome, on account of its proximity to important vessels. Apart from these points, the ganglion may be a multilocular one, in which one compartment ' has'' been evacuated, while others