INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 8i more rapid than when only a portion sloughs; in the latter case it may be months before the dead part is got rid of, and as the tendon can be of no use subsequently, convalescence may be materially shortened by cutting it away as soon as the surgeon is sure that it has necrosed, as will be indicated by its ragged and greyish appearance ; if a little too much be taken away, no particular harm is done. When the tendon of a finger sloughs it will often save time if amputation be performed early. When sloughing does not occur, active and passive movement should be begun as soon as the wound begins to heal, and should be persevered with daily ; it is not necessary to wait until the wound has healed before commencing it. In these cases the tendency to adhesion is greater than in the plastic form, and the resulting adhesions are firmer, and much patience and self-denial must be exercised by the patient if a satisfactory result is to be obtained. Abandoning passive movement prematurely will certainly result in permanent uselessness of the part. During the acute stage the patient suffers from severe inflammatory fever, and the appropriate treatment must be employed (see Vol. I. Chap. I.). When the upper extremity is affected, the patient need not be confined to bed after the acute inflammatory symptoms have subsided. CHRONIC TENO-SYNOVITIS. This affection is generally serous, and may follow on the acute form, or it may occur as the result of rheumatism or of excessive use, as, for example, in various trades. Chronic serous teno-synovitis is most often seen in the hand, where it chiefly affects the common palmar sheath ; it also occurs in connection with the popliteus and certain other muscles. The tendon sheath becomes slowly distended with serous fluid, without any marked pain or interference with movement at first, and the patient may only become conscious of the trouble when the distension has become considerable. In the case of effusion into the common palmar sheath a swelling forms in the palm, and the fluid extends beneath the annular ligament into the forearm, where it forms a second swelling, and fluctua- tion between the two can generally be obtained. The fluid is limpid and straw-coloured, and the tendon sheath is smooth and not materially thickened. A second form, however, occurs, probably in connection with rheuma- tism, in which the tendon sheath becomes much thickened and covered with villous outgrowths. This condition resembles that sometimes found in joints in which the synovial fringes have become hypertrophied, a condition known as ' lipoma arborescens.' In these cases the chances of getting a good result without an extensive operation are comparatively slight. Many cases of chronic teno-synovitis are, however, tuberculous in nature ; in them the fluid is scanty and turbid, and often contains rice- like bodies, and there is thickening of the sheath. These changes are n. G