FRACTURliS OF THE LOWER END OF THE FEMUR 391 SUPRA-CONDYLOID FRACTURE. This fracture is due either to direct or indirect violence ; in the former case the line of fracture is usually more or less transverse, but after indirect violence, such as falls upon the knee, its direction is generally oblique. Fracture usually occurs from one and a half to two and a half inches above the epiphyseal line, and its direction is oblique from above down- wards and forwards. The consequence is that the lower fragment is always behind the upper, and, as the gastrocnemius and the popliteus muscles are attached to the lower fragment, the latter is tilted back so that its fractured surface looks somewhat backwards into the popliteal space. In some cases this projection is so great that serious pressure occurs on the contents of the popliteal space; indeed the popliteal artery may be punctured by a sharp fragment, or may be entirely torn across. When the artery has been injured, there may also be a diffuse aneurysm or so great an extravasation of blood into the ham as to lead to occlusion of the vessel from pressure. Apart, however, from rupture of the artery, the pressure of the lower fragment upon it may lead to gangrene of the limb below, especially if reduction of the fracture be not effected. The ui)per fragment lies in front of the lower, and its lower end is usually directed towards the inner side of the knee ; its sharp lower end may perforate the synovial membrane of the knee and lead to effusion of blood into the joint. TREATMENT.—It is difficult to obtain a thoroughly satisfactory result after this injury without operation ; the backward rotation of the lower fragment renders it difficult to get the broken ends into proper position, while adhesions are likely to form, and a stiff joint not infre- quently follows. An anjesthetic should be employed in setting the fracture and, if possible also, the X-raj's. Immediate operation should be always resorted to if perfect coaptation cannot be secured. Hodgens Splint.—As the lower fragment cannot be brought into line with the upper by horizontal traction, the fracture must be put up with the knee and thigh flexed ; extension will also be required to pull down the lower fragment. For this purpose a Hodgen's splint (see p. 382) with the wire frame bent beyond a right angle at the knee may be em- ployed. Many cases, however, require greater flexion and must be put up on a double inclined plane at a very aciite angle. Maclniyre's Splint.—After three or four weeks a Maclntyre's splint, lient at a considerable angle, may be used until consolidation has taken place, which wUl be in six to eight weeks. Fractures in this region are essentially those in which careful massage and passive movement are desirable. They should be employed from the commencement on account of the great tendency to stiff knee. For a description of the method see p. 280. If the knee-joint has been punctured by the upper fragment,