256 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES cases the displacement is maintained or exaggerated by the contraction of the muscles, whilst sometimes it may even be due entirely to this cause. The weight of the limb is also an important factor in the production of dis- placement especially in fractures of the lower extremity ; in these cases, unless proper support be given to the foot, the latter rotates outwards, carrying with it the limb below the fracture, and outward rotation of the lower fragment is produced. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—When a bone is broken, there is alwaj's bruising or tearing of the soft parts about it. The periosteum is almost invariably torn through, although in children it may occasion- ally remain intact to a large extent. Usually, however, it gives way immediately above or below the seat of fracture. This is important to remember, because the free ends of the torn periosteum may become interposed between the fractured surfaces, and non-union may result. The muscles attached to the bone in the immediate neighbourhood of the fracture are torn, and the fractured ends stiU further tear up the tissues if there be much displacement. The result is a considerable effusion of blood, which coagulates. When the ends of the bone are brought into apposition, they are therefore separated to some extent by a layer of clot, and they are surrounded by a mass of coagulated blood, in which are entangled torn portions of the periosteum, the muscles, and other soft tissues. In a simple fracture this clot remains and forms a mould in which the processes of repair take place. REPAIR OF FRACTURES.—In a Simple Fracture—It is un- necessary to do more than indicate the gross changes which take place when a fracture undergoes repair. The greater part of the blood extra- vasated between the ends of the bone is absorbed, but a certain amount is replaced by granulation tissue, which, in its turn, is replaced by fibrous tissue containing nodules of cartilage and newly formed unossified bone or osteoid tissue. This mass of newly-formed tissue welds together the fragments and is known as ' callus'; it can be felt as an irregular fusi- form swelling at the site of the fracture. That part of the callus lying between the fragments becomes converted into bone and forms a per- manent uniting medium ; hence it is called the ' permanent' or ' defini- tive ' caUus. The remainder, including the portion with the medullary canal called ' the provisional callus,' is destined to become absorbed. In a Compound Fracture.—When a fracture is compound or is treated by an open operation, the amount of provisional callus is usually very scanty; and since the function of this stiucture is to fix the bones together whUe ossification is in progress, union may be correspondingly delayed. In septic compound fractures the fractured surfaces and the tissues around become converted into granulation tissue, so that the opposing surfaces of the bone are soon covered by granulations, provided that no necrosis or osteo-myelitis occurs. These granulations coalesce, and ossification takes place in them.