FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA 317 no deformity exists when the patient is first seen ; this is necessary to prevent the tip of tlie shoulder rotating forwards at a later period. Of Fracture at the Sternal End.—When the fracture is at the sternal end, the treatment depends upon whether there is any deformity and whether there is any other fracture present. Usually there are other injuries, so that the patient is confined to bed ; it then suffices to keep him lying on his back with a pad between the scapuke. When tliere are no other injuries, Sayre's method is the most suitable. Of Greenstick Fracture.—Greenstick fractures should be treated in the same manner as the complete varieties; care must be taken to reduce the deformity when the case is first seen by carrying back the shoulder with one hand and pressing on the projection with the other until the deformity has disappeared. Of Compound Fracture.—If the fracture of the clavicle be compound, the case must be treated by the methods ordinarily employed for com- pound fracture (see p. 283). The wound and, if necessary, the ends of the bone are purified, and the fractured ends are fastened together by silver wire or a plate ; a drainage tube should be used, in case com- plete asepsis has not been secured. The patient should lie upon his back with a narrow pillow along the spine, and the bandages should be so arranged as to pull the shoulders well back and to support the elbow ; good union usually takes place. Since union in compound fractures is not so rapid as in simple ones, tl\e apparatus may have to be kept on for at least six w eeks. FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. VARIETIES.—Fracture of the scapula may occur in the body, the neck, the acromion, or the coracoid process. Fracture of the Body.—The body of the scapula is rarely fractured, owing to its extreme mobility and to the protection afforded by the muscles over it. It is generally caused by severe direct violence, such as a blow upon the back in buft'er accidents and the like. It is often com- plicated by other fractures in the vicinity, such as fracture of the ribs beneath and is not uncommonly comminuted ; it occurs more frequently in the infra-spinous than in the supra-spinous fossa. Fracture of the Surgical Neck.—This form of fracture is generally produced by a fall upon the out-stretched hand, but is sometimes due to a fall directly upon the point of the shoulder. Fracture of the Acromion.—Here the cause is generally direct violence, such as a fall or a downward blow upon the point of the shoulder. Fracture of the Coracoid Process.—As the coracoid process is deeply seated and well protected, fracture of it is usually accompanied by other injuries, such as fracture of the cla\-icle or the upper ribs, or dislocation of the humerus, and is due to direct injury.