AFFECTIONS OF TENDON SHEATHS 78 is supposed to be a predisposing cause, and many attribute the prevalence of the affection in washerwomen to the fact that the hands are repeatedly alternately plunged into warm water and exposed to cold air rather than to excessive use. Treatment.—Rest to the affected limb for a week or two is usually advisable ; ic must not be continued longer than this, lest adhesions form and interfere with movement. In the case of the hand, the forearm and hand should be placed on an anterior splint, reaching almost as low as the knuckles, and should be carried in a sling ; the thumb should be allowed to hang down by the edge of the splint, and the metacarpus should be thrown well back. Blisters are often of considerable value ; an elongated blister (see Vol. I. p. 19) should be applied over the region of crepitation, and this may be I'epeated in three or four days ; generally two apphcations are sufficient When the blister has risen, it should be punctured, the fluid aUowed to escape, and boric ointment applied, while outside this light compression may be applied by means of a mass of wool bandaged on moderately firmly until the bhster has quite healed. When this has occurred, benefit may be obtained by I'ubbing unguentum hydrar- gyri or unguentum hydrargyri oxidi rubri into the part night and morning for two or three days. When the splint is left off, the patient is en- couraged to move the fingers and wrist, and passive movement should be employed if there be any stiffness. The three essential points in the treatment during the active stage are—rest, blistering, and light com- pression, followed by early movement. If there be a rheumatic tendency, salicylate of soda (gr. v-x) should be given three times a day. PLASTIC TBNO-SYNOVITIS.—This form of the affection is much more serious than the one just described; the effusion is greater and the tendency to the formation of adhesions is much more marked. In it a quantity of fibrinous material is thrown out on the inner surface of the sheath, and this afterwards organises and give rises to adhesions between the tendon and its sheath, whereby movement may be seriously impeded. The origin of this condition is generally traumatic ; it follows contusions, fractures about the joints, sprains, or dislocations, or it occurs after wounds and suppurations in the vicinity of the tendon sheaths. It may also, however, occur without any previous injury, when it is supposed to be of rheumatic or gouty origin. The plastic form is the one so common after diffuse cellulitis of the hand, whitlow, and similar affections, and here the inflammation of the tendon sheaths is secondary to the other conditions, and is not necessarily due to pyogenic organisms. It occurs as a complication of gonorrhoea, sometimes alone, sometimes as an accompaniment of gonnorrhceal arthritis of a neighbouring joint. Pain, especially on movement or pressure, is very acute, but crepitation is not marked. From an early stage there is interference with the free movements of the tendons in their sheaths ; even when the disease has lasted only two or three days it may be found that numerous soft