319 FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA will not act properly on the acromion ; a small pad should be placed betvveeh the internal condyle and the ribs, and the forearm should be flexed across the chest. Then the arm and the forearm are bound firmly to the side by a bandage or strapping. It is well to keep the arm in this position for a month at least, but in many cases a certain amount of deformity persists, the point of the acromion being tUted somewhat downwards. This does not necessarily give rise to any disability, but there may be weakness of the arm, and, therefore, if the acromion is much drawn down when the case is first seen, it is well to operate and hx the two fragments together by one or more plates (see p. 305). Fracture of the neck of the scapula can be readily reduced by pushing up the elbow, which should be kept in that position until union occurs. The axilla should be shaved and powdered and a pad placed in it ; the arm is then supported by a large elbow-sling and is bound to the side by a hand- kerchief or bandages. If bandages be employed, they should not only encircle the chest and arm, but should also pass diagonally below the elbow on the affected side and over the opposite shoulder, so as to give additional support to the arm. This apparatus must be kept on for four or five weeks ; if it be removed pearlier, the deformity is almost certain to recur. As, however, stiffness of the shoulder joint is very liable to result from the presence of adhesions within the capsule, it will be necessary to commence passive motion after the lapse of about a week. Two persons are required to carry out this passive movement in Older to avoid displacing the fragments. The surgeon fixes the scapula as well as he is able from the axilla—a matter of great difficulty in fat patients—while the assistant, keeping the arm well pushed up, moves it cautiously in all directions. This passive movement should be very gentle at first and moderate in range, and should be repeated daily for the first week, after which time it may be employed more frequently and more freely. In the intervals the arm should be kept in the shng or apparatus above described, which should not be wholly discarded for about five weeks. Fracture of the coracoid process, if accompanied by comparatively slight displacement, is best treated by carrying the elbow as far forwards and upwards as possible, so as to relax the pull of the muscles upon it. The position of the arm is practically that employed in cases of fracture of the clavicle. The arm should be finnly bound to the side and the elbow supported. If, however, there be considerable displacement, and no contra-indication to operation exists, the best plan wUl be to cut down over the anterior edge of the deltoid, expose the coracoid process and fasten it to the scapula. This fracture, however, is extremely rare, and is often complicated with other severe injuries, so that this operation will seldom be called for.