AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES i68 the aneurysm barely large enough to admit the finger, which is immedi- ately thrust into the interior so as to form a plug to check the escape of blood ; the finger is gradually insinuated through the clots, and the opening in the vessel is made out by the sense of touch or by feeHng the stream of blood impinging on the finger as it escapes from the vessel. The opening is firmly compressed against the underlying bone, and then the sac is laid freely open, the clots turned out, and the artery cleared and tied above and below, while the pressure is maintained. In some cases of false aneurysm it may be possible to perform Matas's operation (see p. 182). In cases of subcutaneous rupture of an artery in which the patient does not die at once but a diffuse aneurysmal haematoma forms, the treatment is to compress the artery above, cut down upon the haematoma, clear out the clots and tie the vessel above and below the seat of injury. The wound is then stitched up, but it is well to put in a drainage tube for the first few days, as there is generally a good deal of oozing. When the main artery of a limb is affected, the limb should be kept warm and elevated ; the general treatment is similar to that called for after Ugature for true aneurysm. ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURYSM. In connection with false or traumatic aneurysm must be considered another condition sometimes met with, in which there is a communication between an artery and a vein—that known as arterio-venous aneurysm. This also is the result of direct injury in the great majority of cases, although instances have been met with in which the communication has formed without any traumatism. There are two forms of arterio-venous aneurysm, namely, Varicose Aneurysm, in which an aneurysm (usually a false one) communicates with a neighbouring vein ; and Aneurysmal Varix, in which there is a communication between an artery and a vein without any intervening aneurysmal sac. The result of the communica- tion in both cases is that arterial blood passes into the vein ; this interferes with the return of the venous blood and renders the latter partially arterial. As a consequence the veins below the point of communication with the artery become dilated and elongated and practically varicose, while the result of the arterialisation of the venous blood, if excessive, is manifested by irregularity of the heart's action. Aneurysmal varix is not a source of special danger, and may persist throughout life without serious results. The veins below the communication become varicose, the limb becomes swollen, there is a disagreeable thrill in the part, and the nutrition of the limb is interfered with ; there is, however, no tendency to rupture. In varicose aneurysm, however, this tendency undoubtedly exists, although not to the same extent as in true aneurysm ; the aneurysm increases in size very slowly, and may ultimately burst. Hence, it is