194 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS superficial and deep fascia are divided, and the sterno-mastoid muscle is pulled outwards. On dividing the deep layer of the deep cervical fascia, the omo-hyoid wiU be brought into view crossing the wound obliquely from above downwards and outwards. With regard to its effect upon the aneurj'sm, it is a matter of no importance where the ligature is applied to the carotid, and as it is easier to tie the vessel above the omo-hyoid, that is the point which is usually chosen. The omo-hyoid is therefore defined, the fascia enveloping it being divided in a direction parallel to its muscular fibres, and care is taken not to divide the de- scendens hypoglossi nerve which supplies it. The muscle is pulled downwards and inwards by a retractor ; at this stage branches of the dilated superior and middle thyroid veins may require ligature. This ex- poses the carotid sheath, to- wards the outer side of which is seen the descendens hypo- glossi. The artery lies in the inner compartment of the sheath, being usually over- lapped by the jugular vein to some extent, varying with the distension of the latter (see Fig. 72). The exact position of the carotid can be determined by the pulsation ; should this be diminished owing to the pressure of the aneurysm, its characteristic glistening white appearance and its flat ribbon-like feel will serve to identify it. The carotid sheath is opened well to the inner side, so as to avoid the compartment containing the vein. A small portion is picked up with forceps and incised with the blade of the knife held on tlie flat, so as to avoid puncturing the vessel; the sheath of the artery is opened in a similar manner. The [sheath is gently detached from the artery by insinuating between them an unthreaded aneurysm needle or a bent Fig 72.—Ligature of the Right Common Carotid ABOVE THE Omo-hyoid. (a) Stemo-mastoid muscle; (6) ex- ternal jugular vein ; (c) descendens hypoglossi nerve ; (U) common carotid artery ; (e) omo-hyoid muscle.