i66 AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES Treatment.—There is practically no cure for these inflammatory conditions of arteries. The only thing left for the surgeon to do is to try to arrest the spread of the disease, and particularly to guard against the consequences that may ensue. Drugs, such as iodolysin have been employed but without any definite success. The chronic forms of arteritis are often associated with the various constitutional conditions already mentioned; when the arteries are becoming thick and hard, and when other signs, such as cold extremities, or perverted sensations, which betoken the occurrence of atheroma, are present, any constitutional affection which might lead to chronic arteritis must be sought for and, if possible, remedied. The patient should also be warned against doing anything which might precipitate the onset of any of the ordinary sequelae of the disease. One of the most common of these is gangrene, which may result either from thrombosis in the vessel, or from the gradual narrowing of its lumen without throm- bosis ; this has been already dealt with (see Vol. I. p. 72). The other common sequela of chronic arteritis is aneurysm [vide infra). Anything, therefore, which injures parts already imperfectly supplied with blood, or which throws an extra strain on the walls of the vessel, must be rigor- ously avoided. ANEURYSM. By the term aneurysm in its widest sense is understood a cavity con- taining blood communicating by an opening of variable size with the lumen of an artery. According to this definition, two conditions are met with which are spoken of respectively as true and false aneurysm. By a true aneurysm is meant one in which the sac was originally formed by dilatation of one or more of the coats of the artery ; in other words, its formation is preceded by a weakened or diseased condition of the vessel wall. By a false aneurysm, on the other hand, is meant one in which the wall of the sac was never constituted by any part of the original vessel wall; in other words, there must be a solution of continuity of the wall of the artery in the first instance. A true aneurysm is thus of pathological, a false aneurysm of traumatic, origin. FALSE ANEURYSM. CAUSES.—A false or traumatic aneurysm may arise in one of two ways ; in the first there is a wound in the wall of an artery (it must be simply a hole and not complete division of the vessel), and the blood passing out through the aperture clots in the surrounding tissues and leads to condensation of the structures around ; the result is that a sac is formed which prevents the further escape of blood into the planes of cellular tissue. The wall of this sac is composed of dense cellular tissue and organised blood-clot.