AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS 96 the lower end of the tendon down the sheath beneath the annular ligament. The cut end can be exposed by dividing this structure, but a better plan is to expose the tendon in the palm; then the point at which adhesion has taken place may be found by pushing a probe up the sheath and an attempt may be made to make the probe protrude into the upper wound and form a guide along which the tissues can be turned aside, and the end of the tendon freed. When the end has been secured and the adhesions freed, it is always possible to pull the tendon up into the wound, because the distal end is not shortened; the gap between the divided ends is due to con- traction of the muscular fibres and this only affects the proximal portion. The Flap Method. — When the distal portion has been freed and brought into the wound, its end must be prepared in a manner similar to that employed for the proximal portion. As a rule ap- proximation cannot be secured by the method recommended for re- cent cases, as the shortening of the muscle does not allow the ends to be brought into apposi- tion without danger of the stitches cutting out. The simplest way of overcoming this difficulty is to split the proximal end of the tendon and turn down a piece sufficiently long to meet the dis- tal portion without undue tension. This may be done by making a transverse incision half-way across the tendon, one to two inches above the free end of the proximal portion of the divided tendon, according to the amount of shortening present. From the centre point of the tendon the incision is carried vertically downwards to within a quarter of an inch of the end (see Fig. 28, ^4). A flap is thus turned down, but it would easily become completely separated if any pull were made upon it, and, therefore it is well to insert one or two catgut stitches between the sides of the vertical incision at its lower end where the tendon might split (see Fig. 28, B). The reflected flap of tendon should be stitched to the distal portion in the manner already described (see p. 93), the fingers and wrist being fully flexed to obviate tension. In cases in which there is wide separation it Fig. 28.—Method of lengthening a Tendon. In A the tendon has been divided and one end has been cut half through at (a) by a transverse incision ; a second incision has been carried to (c) so as to enable a flap (b) to be turned downwards. In B this flap has been sutured to the lower end of the tendon, support- ing sutures being inserted at (d) so as to prevent the complete detachment of the flap. In C the same operation has been performed, but flaps have been turned to meet each other at both ends (e) of the divided tendon.