THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES 267 the patella, the centre of the calf, and just above the ankle. The circum- ference of the limb at each of these points is then ascertained, and strips of bandage or paper are prepared, corresponding in length to half these measurements. A piece of house-flannel, eighteen inches wide, and the length of the intended splint, is then laid upon the table, and the strips of paper or bandage are laid upon the flannel in due order, as ascertained by measurement with a tape, commencing at its upper limit. From these guides the pattern for the lateral splint is then cut out (see Fig. 114). The foot-piece must be exactly at right angles, and must not extend farther forwards than just behind the ball of the great toe. A small slit about two inches long is made at the angle in front of the ankle, and a shorter one over the point of the heel to allow the proper adaptation of the sjilint to the limb. By these means a lateral splint is obtained, which will extend from the middle of the thigh above to the middle of the sole below, and from the middle line of the limb behind to the middle line in front. Three other pieces of house-flannel are then cut to this pattern, and the four pieces are ar- ranged in two superposed jxnirs, which are laid upon the table in such a manner that the two innermost pieces, namely those that will lie against the skin, are next to the table. A large mackintosh, or several sheets of newspaper, are then placed beneath the affected limb, so as to protect the bedclothes, and the whole extremity is oiled, in order to prevent the splint sticking to the hairs of the limb. The plaster of Paris, which should be of the best quality and free from lumps, is mixed as follows : A sufficiency of cold water is put into a basin, and the plaster is dusted into it by hand. The first plaster dusted in sinks at once, and will continue to do so until the water has become saturated, when the plaster floats upon the surface; this may be taken as an 1?,,;^ 115.—Crom's Splint. Removing the excess o) plaster from the lateral portions. Tliis shows a simple way of ensuring an even distribution of tUe plaster.