igS SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS brachial plexus. It should be easy to avoid doing this, however, if ordinary care be exercised in clearing the vessel. After having tied the ligature, which should consist of a single thread of silk or stout catgut, the wound is stitched up without a drainage tube and sponge pressure (see Vol. I. p. 151) is appUed over the base of the posterior triangle, so as to obliterate any cavity left. The arm should be wrapped up in cotton wool and bound lightly to the side for the first week or ten days ; it should not be flexed at the elbow, but should lie on a pillow parallel to the trunk. Fig. 75.—Dupuytren's .Aneurysm Needle. Difficulties and Dangers.- - Ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery is not easy even in the dissecting room, and in actual practice may be excessively difficult. The following are the chief difficulties in the operation. In the first place there is considerable engorgement of the veins, and this may be complicated by marked cedema of the cellular tissue, so that the surgeon may be confronted with a wound from which blood wells up copiously, and in which the normal structures of the part cannot be easily identified. It is of the greatest importance to have as bloodless a wound as possible ; otherwise the difficulties in finding the artery are enormously increased. This is best assured by taking care that every vessel is clamped in two places, and, if necessary, ligatured before it is cut. Careful sponging and the sparing use of the point of the knife also facilitate matters greatly. The lower edge of the dilated external jugular vein may project well into the field of operation ; it can generally be drawn inwards by a retractor, but should it get in the way, it must be divided between two ligatures. Care should be taken not to cut into it before it has been ligatured, as the cardiac end of the vein usually stands rigid and widely open as it passes through the fascia, and air may there- fore be sucked into it. The arteries do not give rise to trouble as a rule. The transverse cervical is generally well above the incision, and the