TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 103 elbow being fully flexed, but, as may be imagined, union is not satis- factory, because the end of the tendon is pulled away from its attachment to the glenoid cavity. The only way in which a completely satisfactory result can be looked for is by operation, which is, however, very difficult. It involved opening the shoulder joint, and it is very doubtful whether the disability of the limb caused by rupture of this tendon, is so great as to make such an elaborate operation worth while. Should the disability caused by the accident be so great that the patient desires an operation, it would be justifiable to do it ; but each case must be judged upon its merits, and no definite rules can be laid down. When the disability is only slight, it is not worth while putting the patient to the inconvenience entailed by putting up the limb for a prolonged period with the elbow fully flexed and the arm fixed across the chest, since by these means it is impossible to secure apposition of the torn ends of the tendon which will have retracted at the time the rupture takes place. Treatment by position of this kind is likely to give rise to adhesions, and it is, therefore, better to treat the case by massage and movements from the first, the forearm being carried in a sling for about a fortnight. Rupture of the Plantaris Tendon.—This may occur as the result of sudden muscular action. It is not uncommon in tennis players. A sudden sharp pain, which is generally com- pared to being hit by the ball, is felt in the calf ; the limb may subsequently become swollen. The treatment is to strap the limb from the balls of the toes to just below the knee (see Fig. 34). The leg should be shaved before applying the strapping, which is put on in strips overlapping one another, It is kept on for three to four weel;s, being renewed when necessary. The patient may go about with the strapping on ; massage may be required after it is removed. Fig. 34.—Method of Strap- ping THE Limb in Rupture of the Plantaris Tendon. DISLOCATION OF TENDONS. The tendons most liable to displacement from violence are the peroneus longus at the outer ankle, and the long head of the biceps cubiti, which may become dislocated from the bicipital groove ; both these accidents are important as they give rise to much disability. DISLOCATION OF THE PERONEUS LONGUS TEN- DON is the more common accident, and usually results from the patient