FRACTURES OF THE UPPER END OF THE FEMUR 379 be allowed to get up on crutches. The Thomas's splint should be worn for six weeks, when, in all probability, the fracture will be firm. After these fractures have united there is often some limitation of movement in the hip-joint, due either to adhesions in the capsule or to callus thrown out around the fracture. The adhesions in the joint may be overcome by massage and active and passive movements, but if the movement be interfered with by bony outgrowths, it may be necessary to cut down over the trochanter and chisel away any portions of bone that interfere with the mobility of the joint. A stereoscopic radiogram will help greatly in determining this point. Pegging.—In some cases of extra-capsular fracture it may be advisable to peg the fragments together in the manner described in dealing with intra-capsular fracture. We have never had occasion to do this, but when there is difficulty in keeping the patient quiet, when the fragments cannot be kept in position, or when the skin is so tender that efficient weight-exten- sion cannot be tolerated, operation may undoubtedly be called for. A couple of pegs driven in through the trochanter would probably fix the fragments and en- sure good union. The steps of the operation would be similar to those already described for intra-capsular fracture (see P- 376). Of Impacted Fractures.— When the fracture is impacted it is not advisable to break up the impaction unless there be great deformity, such as extreme eversion. It is only necessary to keep the limb at rest until bony union occurs, which generally takes place rapidly. Breaking up the impaction is diflicult and is not necessarily followed by less de- formity than leaving the case alone, while it may result in fibrous union. It is unnecessary to employ extension in impacted fractures ; the impac- tion is generally firm, and the parts can be efficiently immobilised by a long Liston's splint applied, as already described, without a perineal band (see p. 371). The patient should be kept at rest for six or eight weeks Fig. 185.—Method of Preventing Rotation during Weight Extension for Fracture of the Femur. A plaster of Paris bandage is applied to the knee and made to include a piece of board placed behind the limb as shown in the figure.