THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES 281 the massage, the hmb being quite free of them during that process. The object of the massage is to secure absorption of the effused blood and mfiammatory products, to ensure free movement of the neighbouring joints, tendons, and muscles, and to prevent the occurrence of adhesions or to break down any that may have formed; the shght movement necessarily imparted to the fractured ends during the process is not pre- judicial to union of the fracture. While we are not prepared to discard splints entirely, we think that massage and careful passive movement may be associated with them to a far greater extent than has been the case heretofore, not only without risk to the union, but with actual advantage to the patient ; in this way it is comparatively easy to get the limb into such a condition that the patient is able to commence using it freely as soon as the broken bone has united sufficiently firmly to bear the weight of the body. This, as everyone knows, is rarely the case when fractures are treated by splints alone for a long period. When the splints are discarded, the limb is generally much crippled, both by oedema, which is often extensive and recurs every time the limb is in the dependent position for any length of time, and also by adhesion of the torn muscles to the tissues near the seat of the fracture ; when the fracture is near an articular end, there are not uncommonly considerable adhesions in the neighbouring joint. For example, in Pott's or Colles's fracture, the chief difficulty is not in setting the fracture, but in restoring to the patient a useful limb ; the after-treatment often has to be carried out for months with the greatest assiduity. It is claimed, and, we think correctly, that, by using massage early and repeatedly, dispensing with splints and employing passive movement as soon as possible, union takes place as readily as when splints alone are employed; and that, moreover, when union has occurred there are no complications such as stiff joints, or adherent muscles, or tendons to be treated. This method requires more attention, occupies more time, and calls for more skill than the ordinary method of reducing the fracture, putting it up in position, and maintaining the splints in place until satisfactory union has occurred ; moreover, it is not applicable to every case. The cases best suited for it are simple fractures, free from ordinary complications, which are easily reduced and maintained in position by simple splinting or retentive apparatus. We shall therefore describe more in detail the steps of the treatment, which is best carried out by the surgeon himself. When putting up the limb it is well to choose a form of splint in which the strapping or bandages can be applied so as to leave the neighbour- hood of the seat of fractm'e freely exposed. Simple rubbing of the limb with the palm of the hand in an upward direction for about ten minutes at a time once daily should be begun from the first, and is often very soothing ; after the first few daj's it may be done twice daily, each sitting