33 INJURIES not the case, and apparently the vessels on the right side suffice to carry on the circulation. This is therefore the best method of treatment if it can be carried out. It will seldom be possible to imite the divided ends. When the duct cannot be ligatured, the second method of treatment must be employed. OBSTRUCTION OF LYMPHATICS AFTER INJURY. —In some cases where there has been extensive interference with the lymphatic return from a limb, as, for example, after removal of the contents of the axilla in extensive cases of cancer of the breast, the obstruction to the lymphatics may be so great as to cause considerable and very obstinate oedema of the limb. A somewhat similar condition occurs in these cases as a result of recurrence of the growth either in the lymphatics or in the axilla. In this case there is generally also considerable pressure upon the main veins. This gives rise to the so-called ' brawny arm ' of cancer. Treatment. -Under these circumstances the best treatment is to elevate the limb on every possible occasion, and to employ gentle rubbing and upward squeezing so as to help onwards the flow of lymph, and to bring about dilatation of the collateral channels. As a rule, the oedema is found to subside gradually after two or three months, and ultimately it may completely disappear. The operation of lymphangeioplasty may be performed in those cases where the oedema is persistent. Lymphangeioplasty.—This name has been given to an operation in which a number of silk threads are introduced into the oedematous limb or organ, in which they remain permanently buried. The threads are carried from the affected area to one in which the lymphatic circu- lation is intact. The theory of the operation is that, since the lymphatics in the affected area are obstructed and unable to drain off the fluids, the threads will carry the fluid by their capillary action to the healthy region whence it will pass to the circulation. The operation has been performed for the relief of the swollen arm which follows amputation of the breast, for the relief of elephantiasis, and to drain a hydrocele or ascites into the subcutaneous tissues. In the case of a limb, the first essential for success is the absence of any septic material, and inasmuch as this is very liable to accumulate in the furrows between the folds of the hypertrophied limb, especial care must be taken to disinfect the parts thoroughly. At the distal end of the limb a small incision is made into the sub- cutaneous tissue along which a long probe is passed as far as possible parallel to the long axis of the limb towards the trunk. The eye of the probe projects at the first incision and is threaded with thick silk (size 4). An incision is then made over the point of the probe, which is withdrawn through tliis opening so that the silk comes to lie in the track of the probe. The probe is then re-inserted at this opening, pushed II. D