AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG 541 the astragalo-scaphoid joint. From this point it passes straight onto about the centre of the sole, whence it turns backwards, passing over the centre of the heel to the level of the upper surface of the os calcis ; it is then carried round the outer side of the ankle to join the commencement of the incision beneath the external malleolus (see Fig. 248). The large internal flap thus marked out is raised from the bone, with which the edge of the knife is kept in contact throughout. The raising of tlie flap has to be effected with the greatest circumspection, as its nutrition is essentially derived from the posterior tibial artery, and therefore any injury to tliat vessel or its branches higher up than the point of section in the incision wUl materially damage it. When the ankle-joint has been exposed, the foot is disarticulated and the lower ends of the tibia and fibula are cleared, and the malleoli sawn off just as in Syme's amputation The cicatrix lies along the outer side of the stump, and the patient walks upon skin that is partly derived from the sole and partly from the inner side of the foot. In cases of tubercu- lous disease of the ankle this operation has the ad- vantage that the synovial membrane is more easily removed along with the foot, and therefore there is not the same risk of recurrence in the stump. Fio. 248.—Amputation at the Ankte-joint by an In- ternal Flap. The thick continuous line shows the incision upon the inner aspect of the foot, that on the outer being denoteri by the thicl< dotted line. The thin dotted line on the bone shows the level of the bone section if the cartilage be healthy ; otherwise it is well above this level. AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG. The general rule that the greatest possible amount of bone should be left in the stump, applies to amputations through the leg as to amputa- tions elsewhere. Formerly the custom was to divide the bone at what was termed the ' seat of election,' namely, about a hand's breadth below the top of the tibia. The reason for this was that pressure was borne upon the bent knee, which was received into what was termed a bucket stump, and the bones of the leg were therefore intentionally cut short, so that there should be no undue projection behind. The fitting of artificial limbs has been so much improved of late 3'ears, however, that