290 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES should be sutured without loss of time (see p. 117). It must be remembered, however, that it is not always easy to be quite certain that loss of sensation in a case of simple fracture is due to actual rupture of the nerve and not to bruising or compression ; if any doubt exists, it is weU, to set the fracture first and then to wait for a week or two, to see whether recovery will take place. If at the end of this time no improve- ment occurs, it is probable that the nerve has been divided, and it should be exposed at the seat of fracture without further delay. If the nerve is intact, no harm is done; whereas, if it has been torn, delay wUl only chminish the chances of a satisfactory issue. If the nerve be so much bruised and injured that there must evidently be a considerable amount of scar tissue formed, the most satisfactory practice is to excise the damaged part and suture the ends. In putting up the fracture, pressure by the splint or other restraining apparatus must be studiously avoided, because imperfectly innervated parts are more prone to slough from pressure than are healthy tissues. Injury to a IsTeighboimiig Viscus.—-The treatment of a com- pUcation of this kind will be the treatment appropriate to the injury of the viscus affected, rather than anything specially directed to the fracture. The viscera which are most commonly injured are the lungs in fractures of the true ribs, the kidneys and spleen in fractures of the lower ribs, and the bladder and rectum in fractures of the pelvis. It is sufficient to mention here that these injuries to neighbouring viscera occur; their appropriate treatment is dealt with in connection with injuries of the particular organs. Wounds of Joints.—When a fracture is in close proximity to a joint, the articulation may be injured. In simple fractures this may occur from the fracture extending into the joint; fractures of the patella or the olecranon necessarily imphcate the joint, and this is also the case in fractures of the articular ends of bones, such as the condyles of the femur or the humerus. The difficulties that occur in these cases—putting aside fractures of the patella and the olecranon, which will be referred to in detail—are not so much in promoting repair, as in preventing the occurrence of deformity and limitation of movement, which almost invariably result when these fractures are put up on splints in the ordinary manner. This is due to the fact that it is very difficult, on the one hand, to get the fragments into proper position, and, on the other hand, to maintain them there when once they have been properly reduced. A very slight irregu- larity of the articular surface may lead to marked impairment of the movements of the joint; indeed, in many cases the resulting limb is so stiff and useless that the surgeon has subsequently to interfere and possibly to excise the joint. Hence when it is evident, on a careful examination of a fracture into a joint, under an anesthetic and with the help of the X-ray screen, that the fragments will not remain in apposition