274 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES in a woollen stocking or a bandage of boric lint ; plaster is mixed in a basin as already directed, and the plaster bandages, which should have been immersed previously in enough cold water to cover them, are rapidly applied to the limb, from below upwards, lightly and evenly. During the application of the bandage the surgeon smooths it out from time to time and adds liquid plaster here and there. If necessary, the bandage may be strengthened by means of block tin or tow saturated with plaster (see p. 272). A permanent casing may be used in a case of fracture from the fust; it has the great disadvantage, however, that it takes considerable time to remove, and it is generally necessary to employ either a special form of shears or saw for the purpose. It is best only to use this form of casing for fractures if there is no risk of complications, since cases are known in which swelling has taken place beneath the plaster in recent fractures, and gangrene of the extremity has resulted. Moreover, if a permanent casing be put on a swollen limb, the spHnt becomes loose when the swelling subsides, and the only remedy for this is to remove the casing and apply a fresh one, a procedure involving considerable disturbance of the fracture. It is, therefore, rarely advisable to make use of this form of splint until consolidation is proceeding satisfactorily. The method of removing these casings by means of Gigli's wire saw is described in Vol. I. p. 399. The Silicate Bandage.—A lighter material, which is useful in the upper extremity or in children, is the silicate bandage. In employing this, the limb is first enveloped in boric lint, and then bandages of crinoline mushn, soaked in a solution of silicate of potash, are applied outside and left to dry. Three or four thicknesses of bandage usually suffice to ensure a firm, light casing. This splint does not set hard for at least twenty-four hours, and therefore, when it is used, a temporary splint should be fastened to one side of the hmb so as to control the fracture until the bandage has set. It has, however, the great advantage of light- ness combined with strength and easy applicability. Extension Apparatus.—When the ends of the bones have not been satisfactorily interlocked, it is often very difficult to prevent over- riding of the fragments and recurrence of the deformity when extension is taken off. This is especially the case in fractures of the femur, where the thigh muscles are so powerful that they overcome any fixation apparatus. The fractured ends are deeply seated and cannot be fixed by splints, and moreover, it is extremely difficult to control the move- ments of the hip joint. In order to obtain a satisfactory result in these cases, therefore, it is necessary either to employ extension, with the object of maintaining the reduction and tiring out the muscles, or to have recourse to operative measures and fasten the broken ends of the bone together. Most surgeons employ some form of extension apparatus in these cases, but the only reliable way of preventing shortening is by operation.