512 AMPUTATIONS knife, the lateral ligaments divided and the finger removed. The only vessels requiring ligature are the digital branches of the palmar arch which will be found on either side of the head of the metacarpal bone slightly towards its anterior aspect and close to the bone. The flaps should come into apposition on approximating the fingers. Sometimes, however, particularly when the skin of the palm is very thick, an un- sightly projection of skin is left at the palmar end of the incision when the flaps are brought together. This can be removed by taking out a V-shaped portion there (see Fig. 231, B) and this should be done after the amputation has been completed, as the surgeon can then see exactly how much skin should be taken away. A drainage tube is unnecessary unless the case be septic. The cartilage over the head of the bone may be left, and there is no necessity for any interference with the tendons or the tendon sheaths. Should the case be septic, however, the cartilage should be removed, the tendon sheath sewn up with fine catgut and the wound sponged over with un- diluted carbolic acid. After-tveatment.—The hand is placed upon an anterior splint extend- ing some distance up the forearm, so as to fix the wrist. The fingers next the seat of amputation on either side should be fastened to one another by strips of gauze, so as to avoid all tension upon the stitches. The stitches may be removed in a week and the splint discarded. REMOVAL OF THE HEAD OF THE METACARPAL BONE. Should it be desired to remove the head of the metacarpal bone at the same time, this may be done by the incision shown in Fig. 231, C. The head of the bone is freed from the surrounding parts without opening the joint and cut off obliquely from behind downwards and forwards (see Fig. 231, C) by a special metacarpal saw. AMPUTATION OF THE INDEX AND LITTLE FINGERS. These fingers are best removed by means of Farabeuf's method (see Fig. 232, A), which provides an excellent covering and places the cicatrix well out of the way of pressure. The incision commences at the level of the base of the first phalanx just to the radial side of the extensor tendon of the index or the ulnar side of that of the httle finger. It is carried vertically down along the extensor surface of the finger to just above the centre of the phalanx, when it is carried around the radial or ulnar sides of the respective fingers to the junction of those surfaces with the palmar. From this point the incision slopes to the edge of the web and thence back along the dorsal aspect of the hand by the shortest route to the original starting-point. By this means a large single external flap (in the case of the httle finger an internal one) is made ; this is dissected up to the line of the joint and disarticulation is effected. Care