TUMOURS OF THE SKIN 21 Fig. 7.- LlNES ALONG WHICH DER- MOIDS OCCUR. cyst is then situated below the angle of the jaw and in front of, or partly deep to, the sterno-mastoid muscle. The lining wall of the cyst closely resembles normal skin in structure, and is furnished with sebaceous glands, and often with distinct follicles bear- ing hairs. The cyst generally contains a thick pultaceous material in which may be found hair, and it is not adherent to the skin unless it has been subjected to irrita- tion ; it may extend deeply between muscles and other structures. Treatment.—Complete excision is the only successful method; imless the entire wall be removed, the cyst will re-form, or a persistent sinus will result. When the cyst is adherent to the skin, a portion of this must also be excised. Dermoids are usuaUy sepa- rated easily from the surrounding structures, but when they run deeply amongst muscles, the dissection required for their removal is often tedious and difficult ; this point is re- ferred to in connection with cysts of the neck. FIBROMATA.—These tumours may occur in the skin either as dense, hard fibromata, or, more commonly, as soft pedunculated tumours which may be solitar)', but which are usually multiple and are known as molluscum fibrosum. MoUusciim Fibrosum.—In this condition soft pedunculated pendulous tumours form small tags or large masses. Sometimes the whole body is more or less covered with these growths; sometimes only a few large pendulous masses are present. They are not dangerous to life, but they are often unsightly; they may become abraded and be the starting-point of some septic trouble, and give rise to a great deal of pain. Treatment.—Solitary pendulous masses may be snipped off, and a collodion dressing put over the small wound left. When the tumours are very numerous, it is obviously inadvisable to remove them all ; only those causing definite inconvenience should be snipped off. When large pendulous masses are present, a wedge-shaped portion may be cut out, or even the whole mass may be excised, according to its size and situation, and the edges of the skin brought together. The hard fibromata are dissected out through an incision parallel to the long axis of the tumour. Painful Subcutaneous Tumour.—This is a form of fibrous tumour involving a nerve trunk or one of its branches. It is generally small, intensely tender, and sometimes, apart from pressure, gives rise to neuralgic pain, which radiates from the point where the