NEURITIS 131 affected trunk must be entertained. If this procedure is to be adopted at all, it should not be too long delayed, as otherwise the neuritis will have extended so far upwards as to have actually reached the spinal cord, and the patient will then be only imperfectly relieved by operation. Unfortunately, this operation does not appear to have been attended with much permanent success when performed for the relief of pain due to neuritis. It has, however, been attended with better results when performed for the gastric crises and lightning pains of tabes, and good results have also followed when it has been done in certain cases of spastic paraplegia (see Forster & Hey Groves, Lancet, July 8, 1911). In order to do this, laminectomy must be performed, and the spinal dura mater divided ; the particular nerve roots can then be cut close to their origin from the cord. As the operation usually involves considerable shock, all the prophylactic measures recommended in Vol. I. p. 117 should be carried out. Br aim (Detiisch. Zeiiscrfi. fiir Chir., 1910, p, 561), quoted by Hey Groves (Lance/, 1911, ii. p. 84), injects 2-3 ounces of a i in 50,000 solution of adrenalm into the subcutaneous and muscular tissues and obtains thereby an almost bloodless operation witli very little shock. The operation of laminectomy is done as follows: The patient is turned over upon the face, and the spinous processes of the vertebrae are carefully counted, and those which require removal are noted. In order to avoid mistakes in the latter part of the operation, these processes may be marked out by driving a needle or some similar instrument into one of them, so as to act as a guide for identification later on. Reference to Fig. 44 will show the relations of the root origins of the spinal nerves to the spinous processes of the vertebrcC. Incision.—The skin incision must be very free, since the laminae lie deep down, and the parts must be widely retracted before they can be satisfactorily exposed ; when, for example, the laminae of two or three vertebrae are to be removed, the incision should at any rate reach from a couple of spines higher up to a couple of spines lower down than the area to be operated upon. Some surgeons employ a median incision, while others use a curved one ; the latter has the advantage, that it removes the scar from the line of the spinous processes. The advantage of the vertical incision is that it can be enlarged when necessary, and, if K 2 Fig. 45.—Incisions for Laminectomy. The merits of the two forms are discussed in tlie text.