174 AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES obtained. The fluidity of the blood may also be diminished by giving twenty grains of compound jalap powder three times a week, so as to produce copious watery evacuations. Valsalva's Method.—In pletlioric patients the method named after Valsalva, namely, the withdrawal of blood by frequent venesection (see Vol. I. p. 4) is recommended ; eight or ten ounces of blood are withdrawn daily for about the first ten days of the treatment, but this method must be used very carefully, and is not to be recommended for the majority of patients, especially those who are old or anjemic. In the latter iron is beneficial, and the administration of opium for the relief of pain produces a markedly good effect. Surgical Treatment of Aneurysm.—The treatment to be fol- lowed in any particular case will depend largely upon the character and seat of the aneurysm. The following are the chief methods of treatment. Fig; 62.—Methods of applying a Ligature to an Aneurysm. A. AneJ's operation. B. Hunterian ligature. C. Distal ligature—Brasdor's and Wardrop's operation* D. The ' old ' operation. The arrows show the direction of the blood stream. (l) Ligature of the Artery affected.—This procedure may be divided into five different groups according to the site at which the ligature is applied, and the treatment of the sac of the aneurysm. They are ;— {a) Ligature of the artery in close proximity to the sac; this is com- monly known as ' Anel's operation ' (see Fig. 62, A). {h) Ligature of the artery at such a distance from the sac that at least one branch intervenes between it and the ligature : this is usually known as the ' Hunterian operation ' (see Fig. 62, B). (c) Ligature of the artery or its main branches on the distal side of the aneurysm ; this is known as ' Brasdor's or Wardrop's operation ' (see Fig. 62, Q. {d) Incision of the sac, evacuation of the clots and ligature of the artery above and below the orifice of communication with the aneurysm ; this is often spoken of as the ' old operation ' (see Fig. 62, D).