AMPUTATIONS 514 As a rule, however, it is seldom necessary to remove the metacarpal bone as well as the finger. Excision of the metacarpal is generally required for some disease of the bone itself, such as tumour or tuberculous osteo-myelitis, and under these circumstances it is often possible to remove the metacarpal and to leave the finger intact. In place of the meta- carpal bone there will then be a firm cicatrix, and the finger will be drawn up between the heads of the adjoining metacarpals, so that there is apparent shortening. The operation may be done through a dorsal incision extending the whole length of the metacarpal bone from well above the base and diverg- ing a little to each side opposite the knuckle (see Fig. 233). The incision should only go through the skin, and the extensor tendon should be pulled aside and carefully preserved. If the amputation be done for any other affec- tion than tumour or periosteal disease, it is well to strip the periosteum off the bone and preserve it. The ligaments connecting the base of the metacarpal with those of the adjacent bones are then divided by a narrow-bladed knife inserted in the interosseous spaces with the edge upwards. The dorsal carpo- metacarpal hgaments are next put on the stretch and divided with the point of the knife. The head of the bone is separated from the metacarpals on either side, the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tion is opened, and the head of the bone seized with strong forceps and pulled forcibly backwards so as to allow the structures to be separated from the anterior surface of the bone right back to its base. The anterior carpo-metacarpal ligaments are then divided with the point of a narrow- bladed knife, the bone being twisted from side to side as this is done. There is no risk of injuring the structures in the palm in this method. In cases of tumour of the metacarpal bone, the operation is rendered more difficult by the presence of the growth, and it is well, especially in cases of sarcoma, to take the neighbouring metacarpal on one or both sides, so as to avoid the risk of leaving disease behind. This is better than amputation of the hand. When more than one metacarpal bone is removed, however, it is well to take away at least one finger in order to preserve the full use of the hand as otherwise the fingers get crowded together as the wound contracts, and their usefulness is interfered with. Fig. 233.—Amputation of a Metacar- pal Bone alone. The diagram shows the best incision. The transverse dotted incision is not always required.