97 TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS is often necessary to turn up a similar flap from the distal portion also ; if this has to be done, it is well to make the two flaps longer than necessary, so that one overlaps the other. One or two fine catgut stitches between the adjacent sides will then give satisfactory union (see Fig. 28, C). After-treaimeni.—The wound is stitched up without a drainage tube, and the fingers and wrist, which are at first fully flexed, are gradually extended; in a few days gentle active and passive movements are begun. When tendons have been lengthened, great care must be taken not to tear away the flap of tendon while practising movements, but that danger is minimised when lateral sutures are employed as for the union of recently divided tendons (see p. 93). Bridging with Catgut. — Cases occur, however, in which this method is in- sufficient. A plan which occasionally yields fairly good results, when there is a long tendon enclosed in a sheath, is the following (see Fig. 29). After the ends of the tendon have been freed, they are approximated as much as possible by the lateral stitches already described (see p. 93). A long piece of catgut is then taken and the needle passed backwards and forwards from one end of the tendon to the other several times, so that the gap between the ends is bridged by a number of catgut strands. The result is that lymph and blood are poured out amongst the catgut threads, and the lymph and the catgut itself become organised. In these cases, as in the others, it is well to reduce the flexion of the limb gradually and, after two or three weeks, active and passive movements may be com- menced. There is no likehhood of the stitches cutting through at all quickly. Division ol Muscle.—When a single tendon only has been divided and the muscle has undergone considerable shortening, it may be necessary also to divide the belly of the muscle in the zigzag manner described on p. 69. By this means very considerable lengthening may be obtained, but to secure a good result much care and perseverance are required in the after-treatment. II. Fig. 29.—Method of darning a gap in A Tendon. Tension sutures are inserted at [a a), and a continuous suture (6 b) is tlien passed so as to darn the space between the ends of the tendons.