INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 79 adhesions give way on attempting to move the hngers when very shght force is employed. These adhesions soon become organised, and increased force is recjuired to break them down, while the power of spontaneous movement is lost. Treatment.—Great patience and endurance are required from both the patient and the surgeon, while the ultimate result is rarely quite satisfactory. From the earliest stage care must be taken to prevent the formation of adhesions, and to put the limb in such a position that, if adhesions do form, they can be readily broken down. For example, when the flexor tendons of the hand are affected, the hand must be in a condition of semi-flexion, because if the fingers be kept extended on a splint, passive movement of the fingers would not break down the adhesions. In dealing with the hand, the best plan is to keep it in a sling (or to lay it on a pillow with the metacarpus thrown well back, if the patient be confined to bed) and to leave the position of the fingers to nature ; they will be found to assume a position of semi-flexion. During the acute stage warm fomentations should be applied. In gonorrhoeal cases, a gonococcal vaccine should be given (see Appendix, Vol. I. p. 517). Important as rest is in acute inflammatory conditions, it must not be persevered with too long in these cases. At the end of a week at latest, passive movement of the fingers should be practised at least once a day, so as to break up any adhesions in process of formation ; the patient should also be encouraged to move the fingers for himself. Unfortunately both active and passive motion cause intense pain, but despite this they must be vigorously persevered with. As soon as the acuteness of the inflammation has passed oft' (as evidenced by the disappearance of tenderness on pressiu'e), massage should be employed to promote absorption of the plastic material, while both passive and active movements should be continued. At this stage the patient can do a great deal for himself by moving the aft'ected fingers to their fullest extent with the unaft'ected hand, and by trj.'ing to carry out active movement. The surgeon himself should also move the fingers freely in all directions once a day, and in this way the formation of adhesions can generally be kept under to a very large extent. Super-heated air or radiant heat baths to the part are also very valuable just before the movements are carried out. \\'hen the patient is seen at a later period, and firm adhesions have already formed, they should be broken clown under nitrous oxide once or even twice a week, if the procedure does not produce very marked reaction; in the interval, hot-air baths, massage, passive movement, and faradism should be employed daily. In this way, a fairly satisfactory result may be obtained in some cases if the adhesions are not numerous. In the majority of cases, however, only a certain amount of improvement will result. Fihrolysin has been used in these cases, but we have seen no definite advantage in its use.