390 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES administration of thyroid tabloids and the use of massage and Bier's treatment are said to hasten consoHdation. The immobilisation should be carried out at first in an exactly similar manner to that for cases of recent fractures that have been operated upon (see p. 385). After the wound has healed, a useful apparatus is a plaster of Paris casing around the hmb from the calf to the groin, in which is incorporated an outside straight wooden splint reaching up to the axilla, with a bracketted interruption opposite the trochanter. The upper part of the splint is fastened to the thorax by a sheet or a broad bandage. A plaster of Paris splint alone, which does not extend higher than the groin, cannot be recommended. The limb shrinks inside the splint and the grasp on the upper fragment becomes so im- perfect that movement is sure to occur at the seat of fracture. If a plaster of Paris casing be employed alone, it must cer- tainly be carried around the pelvis, and even then its grip is not satisfactory. If the case goes on for more than two or three months without firm union occurring, and if it be desirable for the patient to get about, a Thomas's hip-splint with a second bar along the inner side of the thigh and leg, or, better still, a Hessing's splint, should be employed. Both of these allow massage to be practised, which is of the greatest value at this stage. Compound Fractures.—An attempt should always be made to save the limb, if at all feasible ; the treatment will be the same as that already given for compound fractures elsewhere (see p. 283). The opportunity should be taken to fix the ends of the bones together (see p. 305). Ample drainage must be provided. Union is often slower in these cases than in simple frac- tures, and consequently a long period of immobilisation may be necessary. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER END OF THE FEMUR. The chief fractures in this situation are supra-condyloid fracture, which occurs at a little distance above the condyles ; fracture of either condyle separately; T-shaped fracture into the joint; and separation of the epiphysis. All these fractures, except the supra-condyloid form, necessarily involve the joint cavity. Fig. 193.—Methods of cutting THE Femur for Ununited Frac- ture. Two methods are illustrated, but others may be employed. Either involves some slight shorten- ing o the limb, but this is compen- sated for as there is much less tendency for the fragments to be separated afterwards by muscular action.