FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR 387 height to allow of the affected limb being drawn np so that the buttocks are just clear of the bed (see Fig. igo). It is well also to suspend the sound limb to the bar, so that it is impossible for the child to i)ut it on the bed ; otherwise he might support the weiglit of the pelvis upon the sound limb and so nuhify the extension. The sound limb, however, should only be raised sufficiently to keep it well clear of the bed, and no actual extension should be applied to it. Both limbs should never be fastened to the same back splint, and \'ertical extension applied to the latter, as is sometimes recommended. In this method the weight of the pelvis acts as a constantly extending force ; there is no necessity to apply any splint, as the child keeps still, and the result is all that could be wished for. The only practical ob- jection to the method is that the stirrup may slip and cause ulcera- tion just above the os c a 1 c i s. Great care should therefore be taken in applying it, and renewing it as often as may be necessary. A safe way is to put on a boot and make extension from that. Bryant's Double Splint. ■—In children over the age of five the best splint is perhaj'js that known as Bryant's. It children. The aSectcd Umb is vertical, while the sound one is merely looped up to the bar in order to keep it well off the bed. consists of two lone; No splints are required, parallel outside splints with bracketted interruptions opposite the trochanter, and connected abo\-c and below by adjustable metal bars, which aUow for the sepa- ration ov approximation of the splints according to the breadth of the patient. The sound limb is fastened firmly to the splint by strapping or bandages, while to the injured limb extension is apj)lied, preferably by means of a stirrup,1 the cord passing round a pulley at the foot of the splint and being fastened to an elastic door-spring (see Fig. 191, A), by wiiich the requisite extension is made. A broad bandage or folded ' In the double Bryant's splint as originally designed and still supplied by instrument makers, the affected limb is fixed to a foot-piece running in a slot in the lateral splint, and acted upon hy the elastic door-spring. This is quite in- effectual in practice, as the foot-piece always jams in the slot and will not slide; a stirruji is much better (see Fig. igi, B). c c 2 Fig. 190.—VnRTiCAL E.xtension for Fractured Femur in