AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 426 the wound if necessary being enlarged and the part thoroughly disinfected (see p. 283). If loose fragments be present between the ends of the bones they should be removed, and the fragments should be fastened to- gether by means of suitable bone-plates (see p. 307) ; a drainage tube should be inserted. It is best to use strong sterilised wire splints in- corporated with the dressing, as they get a better grasp of the limb than any other form; their advantages have been already referred to (see p. 265). Like all compound fractures treated aseptically these cases are much slower in uniting than simple fractures, and often a long time elapses before firm union is obtained. If the patient can afford a Hessing's splint (see p. 374) this will enable him to get about much earlier. When the wound is at the back of the leg—which is, however, rarely I ^ —^ ^ Fig. 211.—Anterior Suspension Bar for Compound Fracture op the Leg. The limb is fixed firmly to the bar by plaster of Paris bandages about the knee and ankle. Between these points is seen the bandage securing the dressing. the case—the limb is best immobilised by an anterior splint of malleable iron or two parallel splints, one running down on each side of the crest of the tibia reaching from the lower third of the thigh to the dorsum of the foot, and fastened by plaster of Paris bandages round the upper part of the leg and thigh on the one hand, and to the foot and lower part of the leg on the other. A sufficient interval is thus left for dressing the wound, and the splint may be slung in a cradle and the wound got at without disturbing the parts (see Fig. 211). As, however, there is likely to be some displacement of the ends of the bones, it may be necessary to fix the fracture mechanically first and then to sling the limb as above. TREATMENT OF UNUNITED FRACTURE.—Ununited fracture of the tibia is fairly often met with; in the fibula the condition is rare. It is more common in fractures due to indirect violence than in those due to direct violence, and it is also common in compound fractures. The causes may be excessive movement, inclusion of portions of muscles, or,