AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 304 are described as causes of this complication, but their influence is problematical. Treatment.—It is first of all necessary to be certain that the case is one of non-union and not one in which union is merely delayed. As we have already pointed out, union is sometimes very slow. Hence, when there is no evident cause for the occurrence of non-union, such as a piece of muscle between the ends of the bone or separation of the fragments, a fracture should not be considered an ununited one until at least six months have elapsed, and during that time the limb should be put up in an apparatus, sudi as a sihcate or plaster of Paris casing renewed from time to time. The patient may get about upon crutches, or may be wheeled about in a bath-chair, provided that this does not interfere with the immobility of the fracture. Massage of the limb is useful, provided that undue disturbance of the seat of fracture be avoided. Thyroid extract, in doses cautiously increased from 5 grains daily, is highly spoken of by some authorities. Recently passive hyperaemia by Bier's method (see Vol. I.) has been used with advantage. The treatment of a fracture that is definitely ununited may be both local and general. General.—The general treatment embraces an easily digestible diet, and good hygiene ; appropriate medical measures must be taken against any constitutional affection, such as gout, scurvy, syphifis or anaemia. Local.—The local treatment aims at causing fresh exudation from the bones, and also at removing any local cause which may interfere with union. It is well to preface the operative measures by a course of massage so as to improve the circulation and the muscular tone of the limb ; sometimes consolidation takes place during this treatment. Various methods have been employed for producing fresh exudation at the seat of fracture, but the only plan that is in any degree an alternative to operation is the injection of irritating substances between the fractured ends. This is sometimes efficacious when there is onlj^ slight separation. A needle of suitable length is thrust through the skin and between the ends of the bones. Two or three minims of tincture of iodine are then injected at various points around the seat of fracture, and the limb is put up in a retentive apparatus. In some cases the irritation thus produced has been sufficient to secure consolidation of the fracture. Operative Measures.—The plan adopted by practically all surgeons at the present day is to expose the seat of fracture, remove the material between the fractured ends along with a thin layer of bone, so as to obtain a fresh surface and bring the fragments into apposition and fix them securely. The operation must be done with the strictest aseptic precautions (see Vol. I. p. 99). When there is only a single bone, e.g., the femur or the humerus, the chief steps in the procedure are as follows :—