AMPUTATIONS 502 thigh, the bandages fixing both the dressings and the sphnt must be carried up round the pelvis, as otherwise they will slip off. After the limb has been secured to the splint it should be raised upon an inclined plane or on pillows. The latter generally suffice in amputation through the leg, and the limb may be fastened to the pillows by means of bandages. In the thigh it is well to fasten the limb and splint on an inclined plane of wood, weighted by a heavy sandbag or by weights, so that it cannot be moved by the jerking of the limb. AFTER-TREATMENT.—The dressings should be changed at the end of the first twenty-four hours if the oozing has reached the surface, as is practically always the case. The dressings will also probably require changing on the second day for the same reason, and the drainage tube can be left out on that day or the next, except when there is accumulation of blood-clot between the flaps; in these cases it should be retained for two or three days longer. Occasionally, however, particularly in drunkards, the blood does not coagulate properly, and tarry blood may be squeezed out for several days after the operation. When this is the case, the drainage tube should not be discontinued until it has ceased. The continuous suture can generally be removed in ten days, but in the more important amputations, it is well to leave the in- terrupted sutures in position for a week longer so as to prevent separation of the flaps from accidental damage. Support to the Stump.^—When the wound has nearly healed, it may be necessary, particularly when the flaps have been cut a little short and there is consequently tension upon them, to employ some special method of bandaging the strtmp. The object of the bandage is to push down the muscles over the end of the bone and prevent retraction of the flap, and therefore the stump must be bandaged from above downwards. A special stump bandage is also called for when a large, heavy posterior flap has been turned forwards, as this flap, if unsupported, would tend to drag the scar backwards over the end of the bone. Before applying this bandage, considerable support may be given to the flaps by the arrangement shown in Fig. 228. A single layer of dry gauze, the width of the transverse diameter of the limb, is fastened by collodion to the skin for a considerable distance above the divided end of the bone. When the collodion is dry, an assistant, grasping the limb above, pushes the tissues well down over the bone, and the free end of the gauze is then pulled upon and folded down over the end of the stump and fastened to the opposite surface of the limb by more collodion, the soft parts being held in position until the collodion is dry. Outside this a bandage may be applied ; if the bandage be wetted with i in 2000 sublimate solution it adheres better and obtains a firmer hold upon the limb because it shrinks as it dries. An assistant pulls the soft parts down over the end of the bone, and the bandage is commenced a considerable distance above the end of the stump. From this point it is made to com-