5i8 AMPUTATIONS the circumstances in which this operation is called for : The surgeon places his left thumb and index finger upon the styloid processes. The forearm should be horizontal, at right angles to the trunk, and fully supi- nated; both flaps should be cut from without inwards, and the palmar flap should be dissected up first. The pisiform bone should be raised with the palmar flap and dissected out afterwards. The incision commences at the tip of one styloid process, curves downwards along that border of the hand for about an inch, and is then carried across the palm to a point an inch below the opposite styloid process whence it runs upwards to the tip of that structure. A similar incision is carried across the back of the wrist ; the anterior or palmar flap should be a little longer than the dorsal one (see Fig. 235, A). The flaps are dissected up, the wrist-joint is opened .immediately below one of the styloid processes and the hand is dis- articulated. When the flaps are sutured, the incision lies over the lower end of the bones. By a Long Palmar Flap.—When the tissues in the palm are intact and a longer palmar flap can be made, little or no dorsal flap will be required. This long palmar flap should be broad and not pointed. On the left side, the incision commences on the outer aspect of the styloid process of the radius, runs downwards along the outer side of the thumb to a little above the transverse crease of the palm, then transversely across the palm, and finally along the ulnar border of the hand to the tip of the ulnar styloid process (see Fig. 235, B).; on the right side the incision will run in the reverse direction. All the soft parts are turned up from the front of the hand down to the flexor tendons. The pisiform bone is raised in the flap. The two extremities of the palmar incision are then joined across the back of the wrist hy an incision with a slight convexity downwards. This short skin flap is turned back, and the wrist-joint is opened by dividing one of the lateral ligaments ; the wrist-joint is fully flexed, and the posterior and lateral ligaments are then divided. The hand is removed by cutting downwards through the remaining ligaments and the flexor tendons, the hand being brought nearly into line with the forearm meanwhile, and the palmar flap being folded back and carefully kept out of the way by an assistant. During the second half of the operation the surgeon grasps the hand in his left hand and manipulates it in the desired directions. The palmar flap when sutured in position forms a fleshy and sensitive pad covering the ends of the bones of the forearm. A drainage tube is generally required. The limb should be placed upon an internal rectangular splint with the forearm midway between pronation and supination. The splints and dressings may be left off in a fortnight.