3i8 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES SYMPTOMS.—Fracture of the body of the scapula is characterised by extreme pain, and inability to move the shoulder. There is also generally considerable swelling from extravasation of blood, and crepitus is sometimes felt when the hand is placed over the scapula and the arm moved, or when the fragments are grasped and rubbed one on the other. In fracture of the acromion process there is inability to raise the arm from the side, and the shoulder presents a sUghtly flattened appearance. The fractmed portion is pulled downwards, chiefly by the deltoid. In fracture of the coracoid process the detached fragment is often drawn downwards and inwards by the three muscles attached to it; but when the ligaments between the coracoid process and the clavicle are intact, little or no deformity is present. Fracture of the neck of the scapula is one of the injuries which has to be distinguished from dislocation of the shoulder. It is generally accompanied by some flattening of the shoulder, but the arm is lengthened instead of being shortened. The contour of the shoulder can be restored by pushing up the elbow, and crepitus generally occurs at the same time. As soon as the elbow is allowed to hang again, the deformity is reproduced. When the fracture runs through the neck, the coracoid process also descends with the arm. In extremely rare cases, fracture of the glenoid cavity occurs, and the coracoid process remains connected with the rest of the bone. In aU cases the X-rays are required to localise the fracture exactly. TREATMENT.—In fractures of the body of the scapula the important point is to keep the bone at rest until union has taken place. With this object the elbow, supported by an assistant, is held slightly away from the side, and a thick layer of cotton wool is applied over the back of the scapula and secured firmly in position by a broad bandage or by strips of strapping applied around the side of the thorax, so as to press the bone against the chest. After shaving the axilla and powdering it with boric acid, the forearm is put in a sling which supports the elbow, the arm is brought to the side, a ring-pad is inserted between the internal condyle of the humerus and the ribs, and the arm is bandaged firmly to the chest. Some starch solution is then rubbed into the bandages to prevent them from slipping, and the apparatus is kept on until the end of the second week, when it is remove<l and the patient is encouraged to move the arm, and massage is begun. Fracture of the acromion process is more difficult to treat. The ideal treatment is to place the patient in bed in the horizontal position, with the arm stretched out at right angles to the side of the chest, so as to relax the deltoid, and prevent it from puUing the fragment downwards. This position, however, is most irksome, and will hardly ever be tolerated. The best alternative is to push up the head of the humerus against the under surface of the acromion, and to fix it there, with the object of keeping the fragment as nearly as possible in its normal position. No pad should be inserted in the axilla, as otherwise the head of the humems