TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 67 splint should be left off in a fortnight and the patient allowed to move the limb to a limited extent ; this may be safely left to the patient himself, as he is sure not to do too much. Movement, however slight, is of advantage in preventing firm adhesions between the divided ends of the muscle and the surrounding tissues. In about five weeks the limb may be used actively, and then massage and passive movements may also be employed. The above description applies particularly to rupture of the quadriceps femoris muscle, but it is applicable to a rupture of any other nluscle. In cases of rupture of a muscle of the upper extremity, such as the biceps, it is unnecessary to confine the patient to bed for more than a few days. Non-operative.—This \\'ill be the line of treatment to follow when the patient himself ob- jects to operation, when the muscle is only partially rup- tured or is small and unim- portant, when the rupture is only one of several serious injuries or when the surgeon does not deem it advisable to operate, either because he is afraid of suppuration or be- cause he thinks the patient too old or too feeble. With regard to the last point, how- ever, the operation is not as a rule accompanied by shock, and it is seldom that this 17.—apparatus for use after rupture would form in itself a Sufil- °" ^alf muscles, should the tWgh band tend to shp, as it often will from wasting of the muscles, it Cient reason for refusing may be kept in position by fastening it to a band .... . T round the waist. operative treatment. In rup- ture of degenerated muscles, as after typhoid and other infective diseases, operation is not expedient, because the patient is not in a condition for operation, and also because the degenerated muscles might not unite satisfactorily. The part is put at rest, and the joint fixed in such a position that the muscles are relaxed as completely as possible, so as to allow the torn muscular fibres to come close together. For example, in the case of rupture of the calf mnsdes, the knee is flexed and the heel draw n up and fastened to the thigh ; this is usually done by means of a slipper which has an elastic band attached to the heel and fastened to a band around the middle of the thigh (see Fig. 17). This apparatus must be worn night and day for three or four weeks, in order to allow the union which is taking place to become fairlv firm before it is subjected to stretching. F 2