428 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES is an extensive comminuted fracture of the os calcis, the heel feels like a bag of bones and it is difficult to bring the parts into good position. The best plan is to divide the tendo Achillis, and then to hold the heel in position while the patient is under an anaesthetic and to put on a plaster of Paris casing so moulded as to bring the heel and the os calcis into proper shape ; this is held whilst it sets, and the foot can then be slung with the knee bent. In these cases any resulting disability will be in connection with the transverse tarsal joint, not with the ankle-joint, and the apparatus should therefore be taken down from time to time for the performance of passive movement, especially in the transverse tarsal joint. Special care should be taken to prevent the occurrence of a valgus condition. In compound fracture of the os calcis the treatment must follow the lines for the treatment of compound fracture, but if the bone be hope- lessly broken up or if the chance of getting the wound aseptic be slight, it is as weU to excise all the loose fragments ; the parts that are covered by periosteum may be left and will help to form a new os calcis. The results of excision, under these conditions, are so satisfactory that it is not worth while running any serious risk in order to preserve a quantity of loose pieces of bone which are apt to become septic. When there is fracture of the posterior part of the os calcis, and when the fragment is tilted or drawn upwards by the tendo Achillis, the best procedure is to turn down a flap with its convexity upwards and fasten the fragment of bone into position ; the flap should reach high enough up the back of the ankle to escape friction from the hard part of the boot. Unless this operation be done, a projecting piece of bone will be left which will cause much pain when a boot is worn. It is also well to divide the tendo Achillis obliquely and to suture it so as to lengthen it (see p. 105). Fractures of the other tarsal bones are comparatively rare except as a result of a general smash of the foot. As they are usually compound and associated with extensive injury, they do not call for individual description. FRACTURES OF THE METATARSAL BONES. These may be caused by run-over injuries or kicks, or heavy weights falling upon the foot. As a rule there is little displacement in these fractures, the other bones forming splints for the fractured one. All that is necessary is to see that the broken ends are brought into position by suitable manipulation, and then to fix the foot in plaster of Paris.