TUBERCULOSIS 17 Others use sulphur in ulcerated cases, and others again simple mercurial applications such as lotio flava or lotio nigra. ' The drugs which are commonly used for the destruction of diseased areas, and the actual cure of the disease, are :—Salicylic acid, pyrogallol, chloride of antimony, carbolic acid liquefied, permanganate of potash. The usual method employed with all of these is first to apply the drug in plaster or a paste spread on lint over the whole surface, and, when most of the disease is eradicated, to bore out individual nodules with a piece of pointed wood such as a burnt match. Unna advocates the use of thorns soaked in antimony solution, and claims that these give the best results. They are thrust into the bottom of the nodule, cut off flush with the surface and allowed to exfoliate. ' Salicylic acid, when used, is generally made up in a plaster with some creosote to obviate the pain that would be caused otherwise, but these plasters are, as a matter of fact, very painful. ' Pyrogallol may be used in the following formula, which is absolutely painless in use :— After complete necrosis of every nodule appears to have occurred, the raw surface should be allowed to heal under a weaker (2-3 per cent.) paste. ' Chloride of antimony is seldom used in this country, its great dis- advantage being the tendency to produce hypertrophic scarring. Pointed pieces of wood may be dipped in a strong solution of the trichloride, or an ointment containing 10 per cent, of the solution may be applied. ' Carbolic acid may be painted on, and introduced by boring. It is painless and not very efficient as a destructive agent, but it is valuable painted on, as recommended by Jacob of Nottingham to increase the transparency of the tissues before light treatment. ' Permanganate of potash is used in France, but the results seem to be much the same as with the other caustics. Unquestionably pyrogallol is the best. ' By Immunisation.—Two main principles of treatment may be men- tioned under this heading, namely, that in which the dosage is con- trolled by means of the opsonic index, and where in consequence the dose remains small; and that in which the dosage is guided by the clinical reactions of the patient, and in which it is the aim to raise the doses to high amounts. ' In using the opsonic method it is usual to start with a dose of new tuberculin containing from one ten-thousandth to one two-thousandth of solid substance, and this is not necessarily increased during anv part B Acid pyrogallic Anaesthesia . Pulv. zinci oxidi ) Pulv. amyli \ Paraffini mollis gr. xl. aa 3j. ad 5j, 3j. (over small areas only). II c