AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS 509 towards the tip of the iinger. When the flap is of sufficient length, which will generally be when the knife approaches the point at which the finger begins to taper to its tip, the cutting edge is turned at right angles to the skin which is then divided (see Fig. 230, B). Few vessels require ligature, as only the terminations of the digital arteries are divided. In this way a rectangular palmar flap is made which can be turned up over the head of the second phalanx and united to the skin on the dorsum. A common mistake is to make the flap pointed or triangular, either from carelessness in not making the knife follow the anterior aspect of the bone closely, or from continuing the knife in the horizontal direction until it cuts its way out, instead of turning it at right angles to the skin when finishing off the flap. In order to cut the flap satisfactorily it is necessary to have a knife with a narrow blade of equal breadth throughout—in other words, a bistoury and not a scalpel. The situation of the inter-phalangeal joint can almost always be determined by the guide given above ; if not, the line of the joint is about an eighth of an inch below the level of the lowest crease on the palmar aspect of the finger. Should the surgeon not have a suitable bistoury, he can first cut the palmar flap from without inwards, and then proceed with the rest of the amputation as described above. In aseptic cases in which the joint is healthy, the cartilage covering the head of the second phalanx may be left behind and gives no trouble. No drainage tube is required. When, however, the operation is per- formed for septic affections, such as whitlow, or when there has been a bad crush or lacerated wound of the tip of the finger, the articular cartilage should be removed from the head of the second phalanx as otherwise it would be almost certain to necrose. In these cases, also, it is well to introduce a fine drainage tube at one angle of the flap for two or three days. Aftey-treatment.—An anterior splint which extends into the palm should be applied ; the one made of block-tin and used for fracture of the fingers (see p. 360) is as good as any. When the wound is aseptic, the dressing need not be changed until the stitches are taken out about the tenth day. When the wound is septic, the after-treatment will be that of a septic wound (see Vol. I. p. 155) ; in these cases the splint must be re-applied until the wound has healed, as otherwise tlie flap is likely to fall away and leave the head of the middle phalanx exposed. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE SECOND PHALANX. The single long palmar flap method is also applicable to amputations through the middle phalanx, the flap being cut from without inwards and the bone divided by a fine saw. When the amputation is done above the middle of the phalanx a long dorsal flap with a short palmar one will usually give a better result. In amputations above the middle of