TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 69 done by suturing the separated ends, even though a year or more may have elapsed since the rupture. We have operated with great benefit upon cases of rupture of the rectus femoris of long standing. The operation is very similar to that just described. A curved incision, with the convexity downwards, is carried across the limb, well below the seat of rupture, the flap being turned up, the fascia divided, and the fibrous tissue between the divided ends exposed. This is cut away, and an attempt is made to bring the ends of the muscle together. In these long-standing cases it will be found that the divided upper end has curled up underneath, and be- come adherent to the posterior surface of the belly of the muscle at a little distance from the free end If, therefore, the muscular fibres were divided where they apparently join the fibrous tissue between the two ends when the latter is being removed, a con- siderable portion of the length of the muscle would be lost. Hence, after dividing the fibrous tissue which connects the separated ends, the belly of the muscle should be turned up, and the spot where the actual division has occurred, should be looked for. The cicatrix at that part i.:; then dissected out, and the muscular fibres unfolded. The stitches are passed in the manner already described (see p. 63) ; as they are tightened, the muscle is relaxed to its fullest extent. If it should be impossible to bring the ends of the muscle into apposition, in spite of full relaxation, it may be necessary to divide the muscle higher up in a zig-zag manner, so as to lengthen it. An incision is begun at one side of the proximal portion of the muscle, three or four inches above the rupture and carried through the muscle obliquely upwards for about two inches, then obliquely downwards to the original level, then upwards, and so on to the other side, until a zig-zag incision marking out a series of serrations or V's has been carried across the muscle. The Fig. 19.—JIf.thod of Lf.ngtiiening \ IMusclf. The lines of incision tlirough the muscle are sho\™. The sides of the cones thus formed are stitched together, and their apices are united by the method shown in Fig. 15.