ANEURYSM OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY 213 on each side across the middle hne, and of this artery with the supeiior thyroid of the same side ; by the superior intercostal communicating with the aortic intercostals ; by the branches of the latter vessels com- municating with thoracic and scapular branches of the axillary, and by the anastomosis of the superficial cervical with the occipital. If the ligature be placed on the proximal side of the vertebral and internal mammary arteries, the communications of the vertebral with its fellow of the opposite side in the circle of Willis and with the branches of the occipital, and the communications of the intercostal branches of the internal mammary with those of the aorta, and the epigastric branch of the same vessel with the deep epigastric will be important means of carrying on the circulation. ANEURYSM OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This may be either spontaneous or traumatic ; the latter variety is sometimes met with in connection with dislocation of the shoulder joint. It may occur at any part of the vessel ; generally it is either in the first or the third ])art. TREATMENT.—For axillary aneurysm affecting the first part of the vessel, the best treatment is hgature of the first part of the subclavian. When aneurysm affects the third part of the vessel, thesac enlarges downwards into the loose cellular tissue of the axilla and only rarely extends upwards towards the clavicle, so that the third i)art of the sub- clavian can be ligatured without much risk of rupturing the aneurysm. Ligaliire of the tliird part of the subclavian has already been described (see p. 196), but is usually more difficult of performance imder these circumstances than when it is performed for aneurysm of the innominate, because the shoulder is pushed up if the axillary aneurysm be large, and there may be great difficulty in exposing the artery ; indeed, it may be necessary to divide the clavicle and to pull the two ends aside in order to get at the artery as it crosses the first rib. If this has to be done, the two fragments of the clavicle should be united after the ligature has l)een applied. If an aneurj'sm of the third part of the axillary has resulted from injury, or has become diffuse, it may be advisable to open the sac, turn out the clots, and tie the vessel above and below or to perform endo- aneurysmorrhaphy (see p. 182). An incision should first be made into the lower part of the posterior triangle so as to expose the subclavian artery (see p. 196), and either to enable the assistant to compress it against the first rib with the finger or, better, to allow of a temporary ligature to be passed around it. After the subclavian has been controlled, an incision is made along the line of the axillary artery from the centre of the cla\-icle to the junction of the upper with the middle third of a vertical line between the two folds of the axilla, when the arm is fully