444 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES tissue, but the main mass still remains, and as long as the sequestrum is present, suppuration and the inflammatory condition of the bone around persist, so that there is steadily increasing condensation of the bone, and fistulae are formed which often traverse the skin for a considerable distance, and along which a probe can be passed through the cloacse on to the sequestrum. It is often impossible to make out whether the latter is loose or not, because the cavity in which it lies is too small to permit of movement, or because the sequestrum is large, or because it is convex and represents a great part of the surface of the bone ; but we know that the dead fragment will be loose in any case, if six months have elapsed since the acute attack. TREATMEjNT.—The treatment consists in removing the dead bone as soon as it is loose, and then dealing with the cavity left. Until the sequestrum has become loose, the sinuses should be dressed with boric ointment. There is no object in operating until the dead bone has become loose, and in many cases the time for operating must be deter- mined by the time that has elapsed from the commencement of the trouble rather than by the mobility of the sequestrum. It is not advis- able to operate on patients suffering from necrosis soon after the acute symptoms have subsided, since the dead fragment cannot then be loose, and it would be quite impossible to know how much is dead and how much, therefore, ought to.be removed. Sequestrotomy.—When possible, it is well to control the circulation with an Esmarch's bandage, partly because a good deal of blood would otherwise be lost in a prolonged operation, and partly because it is difficult to disinfect the part if oozing is going on. When the necrosis is high up in the limb it will not be possible to apply the bandage satisfac- torily, and the increased after-bleeding may also be an objection to its use. Nevertheless, it is best to employ it whenever possible; the after-bleeding may be checked by plugging the wound firmly before the bandage is removed. Removal of the Seqtiestriim.—Before operation the position and extent of the sequestrum should be ascertained by means of a radiogram, which will often assist the surgeon to plan his incision so as to approach the sequestrum by the best route. The incision must be planned so as to avoid injury to important structures, more especially nerves, but it must afford complete access to the part, and must be enlarged if required during the course of the operation. It need not necessarily be in the vicinity of the sinuses, which may be disregarded if better access can be obtained from another part of the limb. All the soft parts, including the periosteum, are divided down to the bone, and the former structure is peeled off with a rugine as freely as may be necessary. If one of the cloacal openings in the bone be exposed in the wound, the new bone is gouged or chiselled away, beginning at this opening, but no attempt should be made to remove the sequestrum until it has been