AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 422 TREATMENT.—The simplest and most efficacious metliod is to apply a Croft's splint when the case is first seen. The later treatment will be on the lines already laid down for Pott's fracture (see p. 419). dupuytren's fracture. A much rarer fracture than Pott's is that known as Dupuytren's, which generally occurs when the patient falls from a height and alights flat upon the sole ; the astragalus is driven upwards between the tibia and the fibula, the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments are torn, and the fibula is fractured near the lower end of the shaft, usually a little higher up than in Pott's fracture. This fracture is generally produced by very severe violence, and it may be accompanied by fracture of the astragalus, OS calcis, or the inferior articular surface of the tibia. The diagnosis is facilitated by the marked broadening of the ankle that is always present; there is not as much eversion as in ordinary Pott's fracture. A radiogram will generally be required to clear up any doubts that may exist. TREATMENT.—This is often very difficult. The astragalus is driven up between the bones of the leg and extension is required to bring it down. The patient should be put under an anaesthetic and the leg fixed by an assistant with the knee bent almost at right angles, while the surgeon makes firm extension on the foot and at the same time presses together the malleoli and inverts the foot. The main point in the treat- ment is that the fracture should be reduced satisfactorily as soon as its nature is recognised. As a rule displacement does not recur if the foot be kept firmly inverted so that the upward pressure of the astragalus tells against the articular surface of the lower end of the tibia, and not against the tibio-fibular articulation. After the fracture has been reduced, the leg should be fixed in a Croft's splint. The subsequent treatment is the same as after a Pott's fracture (see p. 419). TREATMENT OF MAE-UNION—When the deformity is of long standing and cannot be remedied by manipulation, operation will be necessary. The incisions are similar to, but longer than those for the treatment of Pott's fracture (see p. 421); and the operation, which is extremely difficult, aims chiefly at restoring the astragalus to its place beneath the tibia. All the soft parts, especially the tendons, must be restored to their natural position, and any loose fragments of bone or newly-formed fibrous tissue should be excised. The fibula will usually require division at the seat of fracture, and it is well afterwards to fix the two portions of it together with a bone-plate (see p. 307). The remaining steps and the after-treatment are identical with those of the operation upon cases of mal-united Pott's fracture (see p. 421).