AFFECTIONS OF VEINS 150 when associated with gout or varicose veins, it is not infrequently found that after the lapse of a week or ten days, when the patient is apparently getting better, there is a fresh extension of the disease ; therefore tho patient's stay in bed must be reclvoned from the appearance of the last extension of this kind and not merely from the first onset of the disease. Apart from the risk of the clot becoming detached, there is often immediate extension of the phlebitis, if the patient be allowed to get up too soon, and thus the effect of attempting to hasten matters is to cause considerable delay. Phlebitis occurring in varicose veins may often be cut short by tying the vein well above the thrombosed area and then excising the thrombosed portion. This is the best treatment to adopt under the circumstances. Otherwise, it is often necessary to keep a patient suffering from inflamed varicose veins in bed for six weeks or more. Gouty Phlebitis.—When there is gout, appropriate constitutional treatment must be adopted. A good local application is a lotion re- commended by Dr. Burney Yeo, containing half an ounce of bicarbonate of soda crystals and two drachms of laudanum in ten ounces of water. This should be mixed with an equal quantity of hot water, and lint or soft linen wetted with it should be applied to the affected part, and some of the hot lotion poured over the dressing, which should then be covered with oiled silk overlapping it in all directions, and enveloped in cotton wool. If the phlebitis be associated with an acute attack of gout, it is a good plan to administer colchicum combined with sulphate of magnesia. Dr. Burney Yeo gives the following useful formula :— B Magnesii sulphatis . . . . Sjss. Magnesias levis . . . . . 3ij- Potassii citratis . . . . . gss. Tinct. sem. colchici . . . . 3ij- Aq. carui . . . . . .ad §viij. M. ft. mist. Two tablespoonfuls, with two of hot water, every three hours until the bowels have been freely relieved. The sulphate of magnesia may be omitted after the bowels have been well reheved, and when the pain has subsided to a great extent, the mixture may be taken thrice daily, but it is well to give a dose of the original mixture each morning to ensure the proper evacuation of the bowels. The same authority gives the following formula for use when there is reason to avoid colchicum and when no aperient action is called for :— B Sodii salicylatis . . . • 3ij- Lithii salicylatis .... gr. xl. Potassii citratis . . . . §ss. Tinct. zingib. .... Hlxx. Aq. cinnam. . . . .ad §viij. M. ft. mist. Two tablespoonfuls every two or three hours until the pain is relieved ; then every five or six hours.