392 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES adhesions are very likely to occur ; if these be allowed to become firm, the treatment will be much more difficult, as they can only be overcome at a late stage by forcible movement, followed by massage and passive motion. Operation.-—Even with the greatest care, however, these fractures are apt to give unsatisfactory results, and in most cases the best treat- ment is undoubtedly operative. It may be laid down as a good rule that a radiogram should be taken as soon as possible after the reduction of the fracture, and, should this show that the bones are not in proper position, the fracture should be cut down upon. The incision should be made at the outer side of the limb, and care should be taken to avoid opening the knee-joint if possible, by keeping well to the side. When the fracture has been exposed, the broken ends are manipulated into position while an assistant makes extension, and the ends are fastened together by lateral bone plates (see p. 307). The limb is then placed on a Maclntyre's splint without any extension, the knee being flexed. Massage and passive movement may be begun in ten days with a view of prevent- ing adhesions, care being taken to fix the fragments with both hands whUe the movements are being carried out. Compound Fractiure.—When these supra-condyloid fractures are compound, special investigation must be made in order to see whether the knee-joint is wounded. The wound should be laid freely open, the usual methods for disinfection employed, and the fragments fastened together (see p. 305). If the joint be wounded, the opening into it should be enlarged sufficiently to enable it to be washed out, if it contains blood and clots. Drainage tubes should be inserted for the first two or three days. The limb is put up in a Maclntyre's splint and the after- treatment, already described, carried out (see p. 391) if no septic infection occur. Should sepsis occur, the question of amputation will arise. If the condition be serious, there should be no delay in resorting to it, because septic osteo-myelitis will complicate the acute suppurative arthritis. FRACTURE OF EITHER CONDYLE. Either condyle may be detached by a fracture which passes ob- liquely downwards and inwards or outwards according to the condyle affected. TREIATMENT.-—Great care must be taken to get the fragments into position. In the great majority of cases this is best done by immediate operation. If for any reason operation is out of the question, reduction should be attempted by manipulation under an anaesthetic and the limb should be fixed on a suitable splint. If there be any backward tilting of the detached condyle, a Maclntyre's splint is best; but if not, the limb may be placed in the extended position in a Croft's sphnt. A stereoscopic