AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 256 Plaster of Paris Splints.—A very useful splint applicable to many fractures may be made with plaster of Paris. This may take the form either of an immovable casing completely surrounding the limb and destined to remain on for some time, or of lateral or antero-posterior splints hinged so that either or both can be easily removed to permit of inspection of the hmb. The latter form is generally known as Croft's modification of the Bavarian splint, and is of such general utility that we shall describe its application in detail. With slight modification this method may be employed for moulded removable spHnts in almost any case of fracture. Croft's Splint.—There are two ways of making this apparatus; in one the splints are lateral, in the other antero-posterior. The former is, Fig. 114.—Croft's Splint. Cutting out the lateral portions. The pieces of white paper in the lower figure are equal to half the circumference of the hmb in the upper figure at tlie corresponding marks, with the exception of the right-hand one which is equal to the distance from the point of the heel to the mark at the root of the toes. perhaps, more suitable for fractures of the lower extremities, especially in adults, and is made as follows : A pattern is first cut from a piece of thoroughly shrunk house-flannel. The shaping of this pattern is of considerable importance in the proper application of the splint; a simple but not very accurate method is to take a stocking which fits the patient's sound limb, and lay it flat, with the foot at right angles, upon the house- flannel; from this the pattern is then cut, making due allowance for any swelhng that there may be in the region of the fracture. A more accurate way is depicted in (Fig. 114). The distance between the upper limit of the sphnt and the sole of the foot is first ascertained ; then marks are made with ink or an aniline pencil upon the skin in the middle line in front at certain measured distances down the hmb. Convenient points are opposite the extreme upper limit of the splint, opposite the centre of