TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 95 of such an accident. From this time onward, active movements of the fingers by the patient himself is of great help, and passive movement must be employed once or twice a day. Complete restoration of function may result if this treatment be carried out carefully and assiduously. OLD INJURIES.—When a considerable time has elapsed after the receipt of the injury and union has not occurred, it is often extremely difficult to secure a satisfactory result, whether there was in the first instance an open wound or a subcutaneous rupture. The only possible chance of success hes in operation, the chief difficulty being to find the divided ends and bring them into apposition. All scar tissue present should be dissected out as completely as possible, as the uninjured tendons frequently act better after an operation has been performed to unite a divided one, because their action has generally been impeded by adhesion to the original scar tissue. Secondary Tendon Suture.—For purposes of illustration we shall take a case of division of a tendon in front of the wrist, when no union has occurred, and where the ends of the tendon are not even adherent to the scar. An incision should be made directly in the line of the ten- don ; if there be no scar tissue, it is well to make it crescentic, so that the incision in the skin and fascia does not correspond to the point in the tendon at which suture is to be practised (see Fig. 27) ; this will avoid adhesion between the line of suture and the cutaneous scar. Ex- tensive dissection is often required to expose the divided ends. In the example we are considering, the lower portion of the tendon will be behind the annular hgament, possibly in the palm, and the upper one will be some considerable distance up the sheath ; both ends wall be firmly adherent to the stractures in their immediate neighbourhood. The search for the upper end is facilitated by prolonging the skin incision upwards over the lower end of the belly of the muscle ; by following this down, the tendon may be found. Its sheath can then be opened, the end freed from any adhesions it has contracted, and enough removed to provide a freshly-cut surface. The distal portion of the tendon is then sought for and treated similarly. In the example before us it may be difficult to find the lower end behind the annular ligament, this difficulty depending largely upon the position in which the fingers were when the tendon was divided. If division occurs when the fingers are extended, the distal end remains almost directly beneath the wound; but if the fingers are flexed at the moment of division the action of the extensors in straightening the fingers, pulls Fig. 27. — Flap for operations upon rup- TURED Tendons. The incision ab marks out a flap which, when turned back, exposes the cicatricial tissue between the ends of the tendon (shaded in the diagram) weU away from the line of division oi the skin.