2o6 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS nasal and supra-orbital branches of the ophthalmic, and by the arteria princeps cervicis anastomosing with the branches of the vertebral and the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal artery. ANEURYSM OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The symptoms of aneurysm of this vessel are very similar to those occurring in aneurysm of the common trunk near its bifurcation, but the swelling is rather higher up in the neck, and the tumour projects beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and indeed generally ruptures into the throat. TREATMENT.—The treatment should be ligature of the internal carotid artery just above its origin if possible, and if not, the common and external carotid should be tied simultaneously {vide supra). A fatal result is very apt to occur in these cases from the cerebral complications already alluded to (see p. 202). ANEURYSM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Aneurysms in this situation are more frequent on the right side than on the left, and are more common in men than in women. They mostly occur in the third part of the artery, but they may also be met with in the first part and still more rarely in the second. An aneurysm in the first part of the right subclavian artery is often associated with a similar condi- tion in the trunk of the innominate, and the symptoms of these two forms are very similar. When the aneurysm occurs in the third portion of the artery it spreads downwards towards the axillary, and gives rise to pressure symptoms upon the brachial plexus and severe pain about the shoulder ; there is also engorgement of the veins in the arm, with oedema from pressure. TREATMENT.—The treatment has been very unsuccessful up to the present. Among the measures employed are ligature of the innominate, of the first part of the subclavian artery or of the axillary ; amputation of the upper extremity ; and various palliative measures, such as galvano- puncture, the introduction of needles, etc., which are employed when ligature in continuity is not feasible. Ligature of the Innominate Artery.—Ligature of the innominate artery or the first part of the subclavian has proved almost invariably fatal from secondary hamorrhage, but there seems reason to beheve that this risk will not be so great in future. Ligature of the innominate artery is easier than ligature of the first part of the subclavian on account of the greater distance from the aneurysm ; if the innominate be tied, it is well to tie the common carotid at the same time, as otherwise blood passes down the carotid into the subclavian and so on to the aneurysm. Surgical Anatomy,—^The artery arises from the right extremity of