AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 464 deformity ; this manifests itself either in enlargements about the epiphy- seal lines, or in curvatures of the bones. We shall not refer to the other symptoms, but it must not be forgotten that these bony changes are only part of the general morbid condition. Enlargement at the epiphyseal lines always occurs in rickets; curva- ture of the bones depends upon mechanical factors, and may or may not be present. In the thorax enlargements are found at the junctions of the costal cartilages and the ribs, forming the so-called ' rickety rosary.' When there has been obstruction to respiration, as, for example, when the child has suffered from bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia, there is gener- ally the deformity known as ' pigeon-breast,' in which, as the result of atmospheric pressure, there is a depression at the junction of the ribs with the cartilages, so that the sternum projects and the cartilages run forward towards it. The chest may also be constricted transversely, the lower ribs being everted. The spine is not uncommonly affected ; usually there is a general antero-posterior curvature affecting its whole length, but sometimes the curvature may be lateral. The pelvis may be flattened antero-posteriorly or the acetabula may be approximated, and the pelvis may be heart-shaped; it often does not develop properly and remains small throughout life, becoming a serious obstacle to child-bearing in the female. The ribs and the bones of the extremities, especially the femur, the tibia and the radius, constantly become enlarged at their lower epiphyseal lines. If the patient bears weight on the weak bones, there is also a certain amount of bending; thus the femur becomes curved antero- posteriorly, and the tibia becomes flattened laterally and bends outwards, the common rickety deformity being bow-legs. Genu valgum is also common, and there may be an antero-posterior curvature in the tibia just above the ankle. The changes in the bones during rickets consist essentially in excessive preparation for the formation of new bone and imperfect deposit of the hard bony structure ; the epiphyseal line is thus thickened and increased in breadth. The periosteum is also thickened, and the soft tissue in the Haversian canals and lining the medullary spaces is increased in amount, while the dense bone is diminished. Hence the bones are soft and bend easily when subjected to pressure. When the rickets passes off, fresh bone is formed in this soft material, and in consequence the bone becomes much denser than normal, so that it is sometimes difficult to cut through it. TREATMENT.—In the treatment of rickets, attention should be paid to the feeding of the child, and to the hygienic conditions under which it lives. Farinaceous food should be avoided during the first year of hfe, and during the first nine months the chet should consist entirely of milk. If the mother be unable to suckle her child, a wet nurse is the best substitute, and failing this the child should be fed on cow's milk