FRACTURES OF LOWER THIRD OF FOREARM 355 TREATMENT.—The following are the chief points requiring atten- tion in the treatment of these fractures : If the fracture be impacted its reduction requires considerable force, but it is most essential that reduction should be complete. Care must also be taken to see that the wrist-joint moves freely, and that the movements of pronation and supination are restored. There is always a great tendency to subse- quent stiffness of the wrist and fingers, because of the close connection of the tendon sheaths with the lower end of the radius in the neighbourhood of the fracture. Teno-synovitis is a constant result, and is frequently followed by adhesion) of the tendons to their sheaths. The tendons in front of the wrist are most liable to be thus affected, and the greatest care must be taken to avoid it. Adhesions will generally occur in the synovial membranes of the wrist. Fig. 171.—CoLLEs's Fracture. The sketch shows how'the characteristic displacement is produced. Reduction.—This is the first point of importance. Reduction often calls for the exercise of considerable force, and it is therefore advisable to place the patient under an anaesthetic, when the fracture may be reduced by extension, and by forcing the lower fragment forwards. If no anaesthetic be given, reduction may be effected by grasping the hmb and placing it palm downwards across the front of the knee with the styloid process of the ulna in contact with the patella, and then, by partly flexing and pai"tly adducting the hand, the impaction may be undone. Care must be taken to see that the displacement is rectified completely ; the styloid processes of the radius on the two sides must be made to occupy the same relative level. After the fracture has been reduced, the fragments can be kept in place by grasping the lower end of the bone between the thumb and fingers; the thumb is placed on the back of the wrist and presses forward the lower fragment, whilst the fingers press backwards the lower end of the upper fragment.