CHAPTER XXIV. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE : ACTINOMYCOSIS. TUBERCULOSIS. VARIETIES.—Tuberculous disease of bone is most common in young people. The bone is generally affected either in the epiphj^sis or in the shaft just outside the epiphyseal line. In some cases the medulla may be attacked, while in others the disease may begin beneath the periosteum. The affection may assume the following forms. Acute Tuberculosis of Bone.—This may occur in the course of a general acute tuberculosis, or the disease may be limited to one bone, in which case it starts in connection with a pre-existing tuberculous deposit. The form met with in acute general tuberculosis is of no importance from the point of view of treatment ; when the acute affection is limited to one bone, it influences the treatment in so far that nothing short of removal of the affected bone is likely to do any good. Limited Tuberculous Deposits.—These are found most frequently in the epiphyses, though in some places, notably the head of the femur, they may be extra-epiphyseal; they may occur as soft caseating deposits in which the bone trabeculee have more or less completely disappeared, or as sequestra imbedded in tuberculous material. When there is a limited caseating deposit in the end of the bone, the tendency is for the disease to spread gradually and for the softening of the bone to continue until the deposit reaches the surface. Its further progress then depends upon whether the spot at which it reaches the surface of the bone is inside or outside the joint. In the former case the articular cartilage over the deposit is destroyed, a communication is formed with the joint, and the result is rapid infection of the synovial membrane. These cases are considered in connection with tuberculous disease of joints (sec Vol. III.). When the tuberculous deposit reaches the surface outside the capsule of the joint, the periosteum becomes infected, and the tendency is for the soft tissues outside to become attacked, and for a chronicabscess GG2