31 TUMOURS is more tractable. In some cases it extends deeply, and may lead to disease of the bone. The treatment of this form of syphilitic onychia is that of secondary syphilis. The application of mercurial ointment, 5 per cent, oleate of mercury, or a dusting powder of calomel and starch (i to 3) to the part, are of considerable use, and, in addition, it is advisable to remove the whole nail ; it is rare for the disease to be cured until this has been done. The unhealthy ulcerated surface should then be cauterised with nitrate of silver or acid nitrate of mercury, and the mercurial preparations above mentioned applied to it. As a rule, the affection subsides rapidly under this treatment, combined with that appropriate for secondary syphilis in general, and the new nail grows again without any marked deformity. TUBERCULOUS ONYCHIA. Tuberculous onychia is often termed onychia maligna, and is a disease which occurs in infancy or adolescence. In scrofulous people a traumatic onychia frequently develops into this form, instead of getting well, as would be the case were the patient healthy. The disease, which may involve several fingers, gives rise to a livid swelling, at first at the base of the nail and, later on, spreading around it. This swelling ulcerates and fungates, the nail becoming black and soft, and faUing off; or the condition may begin with an abscess beneath the nail, which falls off and leaves an ulcerating surface beneath. Treatment.—The nail should be removed, the softened tissue thor- oughly scraped away, and the part sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid. The best dressing to use at first is wet gauze sprinkled plentifully with iodoform, with a piece of mackintosh outside, which keeps it moist and forms an antiseptic fomentation. When the parts assume a healthy aspect, boric ointment (one-quarter the pharmacopoeial strength) may be substituted. In addition to this local treatment, the general treatment for tuberculosis, already referred to in Vol. I. p. 231, must be carried out. TUMOURS. SUB-UNGUAL EXOSTOSES.- This is the term applied to little tumours which grow beneath the nails. In some cases, however, they are not really exostoses, but are fibromatous or papillomatous in nature; in some cases they are sarcomatous. They press up the nail and cause a great deal of pain. Strictly speaking, a sub-ungual exostosis is not an affection of the nail at all. Treatment.—The only satisfactory method is to remove the nail and cut or gouge away the tumour : if there be a suspicion that the growth is malignant, amputation of the toe should be performed.