136 AFFECTIONS OF NERVES constitutional tendency such as gout will require treatment with colchicum and other appropriate remedies ; rheumatism, with salicin or sahcylate of soda ; and the treatment for syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.) will be called for when there is a syphilitic history. For the relief of the pain various external remedies will be required, of which the most important are the anodyne Uniments, especially belladonna ; menthol and aconite are also of use. Another method of relieving the pain is by the hypodermic administra- tion of such drugs as atropine, cocaine, and morphine. A weak galvanic current may be used daily, and often gives considerable relief. The positive pole should be applied near the seat of the pain, whilst the negative is connected with a large, fiat, moist electrode placed over the spine. The current should be passed for 15 minutes at a time ; it should be sufficiently weak not to cause any pain, and should be very cautiously increased in strength ; no interruptions should be employed in the circuit. Alcohol has been injected into or around the nerve with success in bad cases. This is usually done for trigeminal neuralgia and is described fully in connection with that affection (see Vol. IV.). Operative Treatment.—Of the surgical operations that have already been described in the treatment of neuritis, there are only two applicable to cases of neuralgia: these are neurotomy and neurectomy, the latter of which is preferable. The poi^tion of nerve excised should be as far away from the seat of the pain as possible ; indeed, in some cases, it is advisable to perform the operation in the immediate neighbourhood of the central origin of the nerve, as, for example, removal of the Gasserian ganglion for trigeminal neuralgia (see Vol. IV.). CONVULSIVE TIC. Another nerve affection, which is considered in detail in connection with the affections of the head and neck (see Vol. IV.), is that in which intermittent muscular spasms occur as a result of an affection of the nerves. This condition is spoken of as convulsive tic, and consists of intermittent and involuntary contraction of various muscles or groups, particularly in the facial and cervical regions. The surgical treatment of this condition will be either nerve-stretching (which is only hkely to succeed in the milder cases) or neurectomy, which may cure the disease if practised sufficiently early and freely. TUMOURS. NEUROMATA. The ordinary tumours of nerves are spoken of as neuromata, but, as a rule, they are not strictly neuromata, that is to say, they do not consist of true nerve tissue. The ordinary neuroma is usually of the connective