AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 356 Splints.—The simplest and best splints that can be employed are straight anterior and posterior splints about the width of the forearm. In this case there is no fear of pressing the ends of the bone together unduly, and better fixation is obtained with splints the same breadth as the forearm. They should extend from the elbow to the metacarpo- phalangeal joints, that is to say, to the knuckles behind, and almost to the transverse crease of the palm in front. They should be cut to the shape of the forearm (see p. 172), and the anterior sphnt .should be hollowed out or cut away opposite the thenar eminence, so that the thumb can hang down in a position of opposition. A pad should be placed over the posterior surface of the lower fragment, and a somewhat longer narrow pad should be placed along the front of the upper fragment, reaching down to its lower end. The sphnts are then fixed on firmly, with the forearm midway between pronation and supination. The fingers should be left uncon- fined, and the patient encouraged to move them from the day following the accident. The surgeon should also move them freely every day, so as to avoid the risk of immediate adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths. The forearm should be supported in a shng. After-treatment.—On and after the third day the posterior splint should be removed daily and gentle massage employed. At the end of the first week both splints should be taken oft" daily, and passive move- ment of the wrist, combined with pronation and supination, carried out, care being taken to avoid displacement of the fragments by grasping the lower end of the forearm with one hand and making pressure forwards over the lower fragment with the thumb, and backwards over the lower end of the upper fragment with the fingers. The'splints may now be shortened, the anterior being cut away so that it ends opposite to the radio-carpal joint. The posterior splint should be continued and the hand bandaged to it; this bandage may be removed daily to allow of movement of the wrist, while the anterior sphnt need not be disturbed as it does not interfere much with flexion. \ Fro. 172.—Splint for Colles's Fracture.