104 AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS trying to regain his balance ; a sudden forcible movement when the foot is everted, such as a fall in which the foot suddenly reaches the ground in an everted position, is very apt to dislocate the tendon from its groove. When the accident occurs there is a sensation of tearing, accompanied by sudden pain and a certain amount of loss of power in the foot. Very often, too, there is a subfascial haemorrhage and considerable swelling, so that, unless the case be seen early, the exact injury cannot be diagnosed until two or three weeks have elapsed ; it is then found that a tendon which ought not to be there rolls about under the finger on the outer side of the malleolus. Treatment.—The treatment consists in replacing the tendon in its groove and keeping it there by artificial means until the rent in the sheath has united. This may be done either by replacing it by manipulation, and afterwards fixing the foot m the inverted position, or by means of operation. Without operation it is very difficult to get the tendon into place satisfactorily and to keep it there after- wards ; and, as considerable swelling generally follows the injury, it may readily slip out again and the displacement not be recognised until the swelling subsides some weeks later. Hence immediate operation is the better procedure. A curved incision is made with the convexity forwards, and a flap turned back, so as to expose the groove behind the external malleolus. The tendon can then be readily replaced in position after everting and extending the foot; the edge of the torn sheath must not be allowed to roll up between the tendon and its groove. The torn edges of the sheath should then be brought together over the tendon by a continuous catgut suture. The foot is brought to a right angle and strongly inverted, and is maintained in this position by a poroplastic splint moulded to the outer side of the leg and foot. The limb is not touched for ten days, when the stitches are removed and daily active and passive movements are begun. The thumb should be firmly pressed over the tendon whilst movement is being practised, and the foot should be kept well inverted; after the movements have been carried out the sphnt is re-applied. It is advisable not to allow walking or to leave the foot out of the sphnt permanently, until about six weeks after the operation, so as to give time for the union of the sheath to become firm. When the tendon has been dislocated for some weeks, it is extremely difficult to return it to its groove, and to keep it in position afterwards. The groove becomes filled up with new tissue, remains of the sheath, etc., and, therefore, even when the tendon has been got into position, there is a constant tendency for it to slip out at once, because there is no proper groove for it to lie in. When, therefore, it is possible to get the tendon into position by operation, it will be necessary to deepen the groove in the external malleolus in order to keep it there. The soft tissue which fills up the groove is first dissected away, and then a fine gouge is