446 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES superficial bones like the tibia, the skin and soft parts may be brought over and pressed down so as to line the cavity throughout. A large antiseptic dressing is applied and bandaged on firmly in order to arrest all oozing and to press the soft parts well down on to the bone. After-treatment.—This will vary according as the cavity can or cannot be obliterated. {a) When the cavity can he obliterated, a drainage tube should be inserted, the wound stitched up, the ordinary antiseptic dressings applied and the limb placed on a splint for a week or two. The splints should be left off as soon as the wound in the ^kin has healed, and the patient encouraged to move the limb in bed, while at the same time passive motion should be practised, otherwise the muscles are apt to become adherent to the raw surface of the bone, in which case free movement of the neighbourmg joints will be interfered with. It is well, however, not to allow the patient to hang the leg down or to walk until the wound has quite healed, especially when the tibia is affected ; in the case of the upper extremity, however, the patient may be allowed up as soon as he has recovered from the effects of the operation. (61 When the cavity cannot be obliterated.—When the above procedure is impossible and a cavity must be left, it may be treated by continuous drainage if it be septic, or, if the surgeon be successful in making it aseptic, by filling it up with some material that may afterwards organise or act as a mould for blood-clot. The choice between these two plans depends on the question of asepsis. It must be confessed that more often than not the attempt at complete disinfection of these wounds is a failure, and under such circumstances the length of time required for closure of the cavity in the bone left after removal of a sequestrum is very great and in many cases, especially in deeply seated bones, healing never takes place. In all cases, however, the attempt to disinfect the cavity must be made. We have already referred to the use of undiluted carbolic acid after thoroughly scraping out all recesses of the cavity ; other antiseptics such as formahn, and various caustics such as nitric acid are also employed. Heat has also been used, the whole interior of the cavity being cauterised by a cautery, or hot air being directed over its wall. These various attempts are made while the tourniquet is still apphed. After a time the tourni- quet is taken off, when the result is that the antiseptics are diluted and washed away with the blood, and oozing from any larger vessels in the bone can be arrested by the use of Horsley's aseptic wax (see p. 146). After the bleeding has practically stopped, the wound should be stitched up, small intervals being left between the stitches to permit the excess of blood to escape, the usual antiseptic dressings applied, and the limb placed at rest on a suitable splint. In the course of three or four days it will be evident whether the attempts at disinfection have succeeded or not. If they have, the wound