ANEURYSM 179 interior of the artery. Should the granulation tissue be weak and the clot be small in amount, secondary haemorrhage is very likely to occur. The amount of clot formed upon the distal side of the ligature is generally small, and it is from this and not from the proximal side that secondary haemorrhage usually occurs. At the present day, when wounds are kept aseptic, ligatures do not separate at all; the wound heals rapidly, and there is very little formation of granulation tissue in the wall of the vessel, and consequently only slight softening of the coats. Moreover, the ligature becomes buried in lyni])h which undergoes organisation and thus serves to strengthen the artery. Hence the fear of secondary haemorrhage after ligature of any artery, except perhaps the largest, such as the innominate, need not trouble the surgeon. Here however, there still seems to be a distinct danger of such an occurrence. This is due not to septic infection so much as to a mechanical rupture of the inner and middle coats, the external coat being too weak to resist the force of the blood-stream. The special precautions necessary in this case have already been outlined in speaking of the method of application of the ligature (see p. 177), and are referred to again in connection with ligature of individual vessels. Gangrene.—The chances of gangrene after ligature of an artery in continuity depend upon the rapidity with which the collateral circula- tion is developed; this in its turn is influenced by two points. The first is whether the collateral circulation has been established before the ligature is applied : the second is whether it is possible for collateral circulation to be properly established. It may fail because of a diseased condition of the smaller arteries which prevents their proper dilatation or because of pressure exerted upon the collateral vessels as they arise from the main trunk or because of oedema of the limb, which wUl offer a phj'sical obstacle to the circulation. Thus, the Hunterian operation is not the best in those cases in which the aneurysm is very large, in which there is extensive disease of the arteries or in which the aneurysm has become diffuse. Under these circumstances, and especially in the latter case, the clot may interfere seriously with the secondar3/ circulation, and therefore the modern operation of opening the sac, clearing out the clots, and occluding the circulation through it either by Matas's operation of endo- aneurysmorrhaphy (see p. 182) or by tjing the vessel above and below and extirpating the sac itself is less likely to lead to gangrene than is tlie Hunterian operation. When the aneurysm has become diffuse, the clots which are infiltrating the tissues should be removed at the same time. Anel's Operation.—The views upon the question of applying the ligature in the immediate vicinity of the aneurysm, or at some distance from it, have undergone considerable alteration. It is now found that the opinion formerly held as to the diseased condition of the artery in the neighbourhood of the sac was not absolutely correct, and in a large number of cases the artery is quite as healthy close to the aneurysmal sac N 2