TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 115 the irreparably damaged portion, followed by immediate union of the two healthy ends, is no doubt the best treatment (see p. 117). It is very difficult to diagnose this condition with certainty, because complete loss of function may result from a temporary and com- paratively trifling injury; when several weeks elapse without any sign of recovery, however, and the loss of both sensation and motion is complete, the surgeon is justified in exposing the nerve opposite the seat of injury. Should it be found soft and pulpy, sufficient should be removed to allow healthy fibres to be made out above and below ; the remaining steps of the operation are those for nerve suture (see p. 117). Unless, however, the nerve has undergone complete destruction, there is no special advantage in excising the injured portion, because, while the nerve sheath remains intact and serves as a guide to direct the iibrils in the proper direction, the latter can spread down through the injured portion just as they will across the interval bridged over by operation. Hence, we only advise excision of a portion of the nerve when complete destruction has taken place. WOUNDS OF NERVES. Wounds of nerves may be simple punctures, clean-cut divisions, or lacerated wounds. It is, however, only necessary to discuss the treatment of a partial or complete division of the nerve, since a mere puncture does not usually call for special treatment. The changes that take place in a nerve after division, and the mode in which regeneration occurs, may be briefly summarised thus :— Immediately after section of a nerve, the nerve fibres shrink up into the sheath, so that the stump of the nerve becomes covered with an irregular sheath of the connective tissue surrounding the nerve or perineurium, the whole forming a sort of bulbous ending. Degenerative changes set in at once, the myelinated sheath begins to break up, and, in the place of a continuous sheath, there appears a number of fatty droplets which are capable of taking the usual stains for fat. At the same time the essential part of the nerve, the axis cylinder, breaks up and finally disappears entirely. There remains the neui'ilemma or primitive sheath, and this soon shows indications of proliferative changes, the nuclei multiplying and assisting the leucocytes in the removal of the fat resulting from the disintegration of the myelinated sheath. On the side of the nerve between the section and the nerve cell these changes are very little marked, and only for a very short distance, but the nerve cell itself shows certain changes, chiefly fragmentation of the Nissl bodies, indicating that the section has also profoundly affected its nutrition. The nerve which has undergone these changes may disappear I 2