59 TUBERCULOSIS—SYPHILIS gradually finds its way to the surface. These burs^e may or may not be connected with and secondary to disease of the joint ; those most com- monly- affected are the bursa over the great trochanter, and that beneath the deltoid muscle. TREATMENT.—The treatment is essentially that of chronic abscess (see Vol. I. j). 233). The affected bursa and its contents should be dissected out if possible ; when this cannot be done, the wall should be clipped away after the cavity has been laid open freely, and any portion that has to be left behind should be scraped and sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid. When the entire bursal wall is not easily accessible, ('.£,'., in the psoas bursa, tlie pus should be evacuated, the walls scraped, the cavity injected with a 10 per cent emulsion of iodoform and glycerine (see Vol. I. p. 234), and the wound stitched up with{)ut a drainage tube. In the case of the bursa over the great trochanter, an incision should be made witli its convexity forwards, and a flap turned back so as to expose the swelling completely. The bursal wall is then peeled off from the underlying tissues, and removed entire, the surface of the bone being carefully examined lor evidence of tuberculous infection ; any deposit of tubercle in it, must be gouged out. The wound is stitched up and an antiseptic dressing and pressure applied. On the other hand, it is impossible to remove the subdeltoid bursa entirely without an exten- sive dissection, but it is possible to dissect away the greater part of it by means of an incision along the anterior edge of the deltoid muscle, curving backwards at the lower part (see Fig. 14). The portion left behind should be scraped, iodoform and glycerine emulsion injected, and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Tuberculosis of the subdeltoid bursa is gener- ally secondary to tuberculous disease of the shoulder joint, and if this be the case and the disease be extensive, it may be advisable to excise the joint. It will then be best to dissect away the bursa as completely as possible before dealing with the synovial membrane and the joint surfaces (see Vol. III.). SYPHILIS. Syphilitic bursitis occurs in the secondary stage as an acute affection ; in the teiiiaiy stage it occurs as a gummatous deposit, but these lesions are rare. The pre-patellar bursa is most often affected and gummatous Fic. 14-—Incision tor removal OF Deltoid Bursa. This should correspond mainly to Ihe anterior edge of the deltoid muscle, and should curve round well on to the outer aspect of the arm at its lower end.