AMPUTATIONS 492 sterilised bandage, so as to prevent the discharge from the sinuses finding its way into the region of the amputation wound during the operation. Even when there are no septic areas, it is always well to wrap up the whole of the limb to be removed in a towel soaked in a i in 20 carbolic acid solution, as it is difficult to render the whole limb aseptic. The assistant, to whom the task of holding the limb is entrusted, can then be allowed to take part in the operation subsequently without risk of infecting the wound. Wherever it is possible, however, the limb should be in charge of an assistant who will have nothing to do with the rest of the operation. PREVENTION OF HEMORRHAGE. — The arrest of haemorrhage during the amputation was formerly effected by digital com- pression of the main vessel, but although this may be necessary even now in some operations, such as those about the shoulder-joint, the method is risky and comparatively ineffectual. The blood-supply of the stump is generally derived from more than one large vessel, and compression of the main arterial trunk does not arrest all the bleeding. Moreover, the assistant is apt to relax the pressure at an inconvenient moment. Whenever there is room to permit of its use, the safest and simplest plan is to adopt Esmarch's method and encircle the limb by elastic tubing or by an elastic bandage. Esmarch's Method.—^In Esmarch's complete method the limb is band- aged spirally with an elastic bandage from the extremity to a point well above the region of amputation. At the upper limit of this bandage a length of india-rubber tubing is stretched and wound horizontally around the limb, and when this is fastened in position, the spiral elastic bandage is removed. By this means, nearly all the blood in the limb is forced into the general circulation and is thus saved to the patient. There are, however, two important conditions in which the objections to the method are so great as to render it inapplicable. Should the amputation be for malignant tumour, the compression exerted by the elastic bandage may force portions of tumour substance into the circulation, and thus give rise to secondary deposits elsewhere. Again, in septic conditions, as, for example, septic sinuses or cellulitis, pus may be forced by the bandage through the interstices of the tissues and may lead to general infection. Lister's Method.—A plan that is equally efficacious in rendering the limb bloodless but free from the above objections is that of Lord Lister, who elevated the limb for a few minutes before applying the tubing. The effect of this is to empty the veins by gravity and to cause the arteries to contract reflexly, so that, on the one hand, all the venous blood runs out of the limb, while, on the other, comparatively little arterial blood finds its way into it. The tubing is applied horizontally as high above the seat of amputation as the anatomical conditions of the parts allow, while the limb is in the elevated position. By this