228 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS intestines are carefully packed away in the upper part of the abdomen with abdominal cloths. On the right side the caecum and the adjacent part of the ileum are displaced upwards, and on the left the sigmoid flexure. The direction and extent to which this latter structure can be displaced will depend upon the position of the meso-sigmoid in relation to the external iliac artery ; usuall}' it can be displaced upwards. The limits of the aneurysm are next defined with the finger, and the pulsation of the artery is felt for above the point where the dilatation commences. It is also important that the position at which the ureter crosses the vessel should be made out. An incision is then made in the peritoneum over the vessel; the latter is care- fully cleared, and the Hgature passed from within outwards. On the right side the artery is readily acces- sible, and the peritoneum may be incised directly over it without fear of bleeding ; on the left side there may be many large arterial branches running in the meso-sigmoid, and in that case it is better to incise the peritoneum near the middle line, and to raise it outwards over the vein until the artery is reached. In the iliac vessels, as in the innominate, it is well to employ the double ligature recommended by Ballance and Edmunds (see p. 177), so as to avoid complete division of the coats. When clearing the vessel on the right side care must be taken to avoid puncturing the vein. After the vessel has been tied, the opening in the peritoneum over it should be closed by a catgut stitch, and the abdominal incision sutured in the usual manner, the peritoneum being first stitched up with a fine continuous catgut suture, the muscles on either side brought together by silk ' mattress ' sutures (see Figs. 94-96), and the skin united with a continuous silk suture. The Extra-peritoneal Operations.—The extra-peritoneal ligature of the external or common iliac artery is not a good method for cases in which the aneurysm is situated upon those vessels. It may, however, be employed with advantage when the aneurysm is situated high up on the superficial femoral. There are two methods of performing this operation, which are known respectively as Abernethy's and Astley Cooper's. The former was employed chiefly when the upper end of the external iliac or the common trunk was to be tied, but for these arteries the trans-peritoneal operation is preferable. Astley Cooper's Operation.—Astley Cooper's operation is performed Fig. 97.—Astley Cooper's Incision for Extra-peri- toneal Ligature of the Common or External Iliac Artery. The outlines of the pelvis and the pelvic brim are shown. The thick line denotes the incision.