ArFECTIONS OF THE BONES 258 must be employed during coaptation in order to interlock the fractured surfaces. A frequent cause of failure in coaptation is that the surgeon forgets the spiral nature of the fracture, and does not rotate the fragments sufficiently to get accurate apposition. Employment of the X-rays.—The X-rays are most useful both in the diagnosis and the treatment of fractures. Not only are they of the greatest value in determining the exact nature of a fracture and in ascertaining whether the fractured ends remain in position after the fracture has been set, but in many cases they are invaluable during coapta- tion of the fracture. The necessary manipulations can be carried out with the aid of the fluorescent screen, and the surgeon can see not only when the fracture is accurately set, but also the most advantageous direction in which to manipulate the fragments so as to get the ends into position. In certain fractures in the neighbourhood of the articular surfaces, this is almost the only way in which the surgeon can make sure that he has obtained satisfactory coaptation. In this connection we would emphasise the importance of the X-ray work being done by a medical man, as it requires a good general know- ledge of fractures to be able to take radiograms that shall demonstrate the points in a particular fracture that the surgeon desires to know. Stereo- scopic views are necessary in a large number of cases, since no other view will show the frequently spiral nature of these fractures so well; but direct examination of a fracture by means of the fluorescent screen is valuable since the limb can be moved in any direction and the fracture examined from all points of view, and the direction and extent of the manipulations necessary for coaptation ascertained. This examination should never be omitted if it can be practised, and with a suitable couch it is easy to apply it to most fractures. After coaptation has been secured, and the limb has been put up m splints, a stereoscopic radiogram should be taken as soon as possible, in order to see that the position remains good. If this be so, there is little chance of the ends of the fractured bones becoming displaced unless some obvious cause of displacement should arise. Extension and Counter-extension.—Assistance is necessary for the proper reduction of a fracture in a long bone, and, if the patient be very muscular, two assistants will be required. If only one be at hand, he should exert counter-extension, that is to say, he fixes the upper fragment or the trunk while the surgeon effects the extension ; it is not necessary to have a skilled assistant for this purpose. When no assistant is available, counter-extension may be obtained by fixing the body of the patient to the bed, whilst the surgeon makes the necessary extension and manipulations. The lower fragment should be seized with one hand well below the seat of the fracture ; the other grasps the region of the fracture, and manipulates the bones into position when the lower fragment has been pulled down sufficiently. If two assistants be present