24 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES commenced. The reaction is assisted by the application of a strong irritating antiseptic dressing such as i m 2C carbohc acid. This plan of treatment is puisued until a healthy, fiat, granulating surface is obtained. ' This means that all the growth has been removed and all that is needed to complete the healing is the application of a mild antiseptic dressing, such as boric acid ointment. ' Another method of applying the rays is to give maximal doses at intervals, the maximal dose being measured by means of " a pastille" which changes colour to a standard tint when the largest amount of the X-rays has been applied that can be used without giving rise to erythema. The dose is repeated at intervals of three weeks. ' When the disease has attacked bone or cartilage, a preliminary opera- tion will be necessary to remove the necrosed portions. When this has been done. X-ray treatment may be commenced with some hope of success. Unless this removal of necrosed portions has been undertaken, it has been found that, even after prolonged exposure to the rays, healing does not take place. ' Although it is easy to obtain a scar which is apparently quite sound and free from disease, yet recrudescence is the rule. Fortunately these recrudescences are as amenable to treatment as the original growth. It is advisable therefore that patients should be kept under observation for a prolonged period after healing has taken place.' EPITHELIOMA.—-Two forms of this affection are met with in the skin, namely, the fiat superficial form and the tuberous variety. The flat epithelioma is a superficial hardness of the skin, a kind of parch- ment induration usually beginning in a sebaceous nodule or a mole, and generally occurring in old people. It is not particularly malignant, and may exist for a considerable time before enlargement of the glands takes place. Treatment.—The disease can generally be arrested by excising the indurated area. Excision should be practised without hesitation on any enlarging nodule about the face in old people, especially an old sebaceous patch or a mole that has existed for many years and has recently begun to increase in size. The microscope will generally show that the nodule is an epithelioma limited to the surface of the skin. Radium, as now used, may be of value in these cases, particularly when, owing to the situation of the growth, free excision in every direction is not feasible. The tuberous epitlieliomata are much more malignant, and give rise to comparatively early infection of the glands. The extent of the opera- tion required for their excision will depend on the situation of the growth ; a descriptioia of the operations will therefore be found in connection with the affections of the regions in which they occur. The glands, if enlarged, should also be excised. A question of great importance is whether the lymphatic glands should be removed, if they are not enlarged, at the time of removal of the growth. When the growth is in such a situation that