ANEURYSM OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY 205 glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, the stylo- hyoid hgament and the styloid process, these structures passing between the internal and external carotid arteries. The superior laryngeal nerve is behind both vessels. On its inner side is the pharynx, the great cornu of the hvoid bone, and the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches. Operation.—The neck is thrown well back over a sandbag and the head turned towards the opposite side. An incision is made over the line of the artery from the angle of the jaw to the line of the common carotid trunk op- ))Osite the upper level of the thyroid cartilage. A lew superficial veins are secured, the deep fascia is opened, and the guides to the artery are felt for. The first is the greater cornu of the hyoid, above which the surgeon should make out the posterior belly of the digastric muscle (see Fig. 79). The cellular tissue is then separated with a blunt dissector, so as to expose the vessel, which can be traced from its point of origin upwards and inwards towards the ()osterior belly of the di- gastric ; its pulsation can be easily felt. Crossing the arter}' from behinds for- wards is the hj/poglossal nerve which is jood Fig. 79.—Ligature of the Right External Carotid Artery, [a) Digastric muscle ; (6) superficial layer of the cervical fascia ; (c) sterno-mastoid muscle ; (d) deep layer of the cervical fascia ; (c) facial artery ; (/) occipital artery ; (g) hypoglossal nerve giving off its descending branch ; (/() lingual artery; (;) internal carotid artery; (k) external carotid artery; (/) great cornu of the hyoid bone ; (m) facial vein ; (ii) lingual vein ; (o) superior thyroid artery. guide, and must not be included in the ligature. The needle should be passed from without inwards, and care must be taken to keep it closely in contact with the artery so as to avoid taking up the superior laryngeal nerve. Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the External Carotid.—This is maintained by the branches of the opposite external carotid anastomosing across the mid-line of the head and neck with those of the ligatured vessel ; by the terminal branches of the facial anastomosing with the