FRACTURES OF THE UPPER END OF THE FEMUR 377 EXTRA-CAPSULAR FRACTURE. By this term is understood an injury in whicli tlie line of fracture is outside the capsule, at any rate in part of its course. As a rule, it is intra- capsular in front and extra-capsnlar behind, owing to the fact that in front the capsule is attached to the lowest limit of the neck. This injury is caused by more severe violence than that whicli produces the intra-capsular fracture and is generally due to a heavy fall on the great trochanter; impaction frequently occurs, the neck of the femur being driven outwards into the trochanter, which it may split up considerably. The injury may also occur from indirect violence, such as falls from a height upon the feet or knees, but in these accidents the shaft of tlie femur is more likely to be broken. The fracture occurs in younger people than does the intra-capsular variety, and generally unites by bone. As it occurs in younger subjects there is less hability to lung complications than in the intra-capsular fractures. There is generally shortening, even when the fracture is impacted ; as much as two to three inches may be met with. The limb is strongly everted whether impaction be present or not. In impacted cases there is broadening of the trochanter—a point of importance in the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—In two respects the treatment of this fracture differs from that of the intra-capsular variety. In the first place, the surgeon's object is to obtain bony union, and, therefore, a prolonged treatment is advisable and is usually well borne, since the younger and more vigorous patients do not run the same risk of bed-sore or pneumonia as do the victims of intra-capsular fracture. In the second place, powerful extension is required to keep the fractured surfaces in position, because there is nothing to oppose the upward puU of the muscles. The treatment wUl vary according as the fracture is impacted or is not. Of Unimpacted Fractures.—The limb is shaved and extension strapping applied from the middle of the thigh to about the middle of the leg (see p. 276) ; the bandage securing it should not extend as low as the malleoli, because heavy weights ha\-e to be employed which may cause the strapping to slip and produce a sore about the ankle. As an alternative the extension apparatus may be attached to a well fitting spat (see p. 277). After the strapping has been applied, the patient should be anaesthetised and the limb dragged down into position by traction upon the foot and ankle, while an assistant makes counter-extension ; a suitable weight which will vary with the muscularity of the patient is then attached to the cord passing over the pulley. In an adult it is best to begin with six or seven pounds and increase it, if necessar}'. The outward rotation of the limb will also have to be corrected, and this is much more difficult to do tlian in tlie intra-capsular fracture,