441 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION for reasons that are not clear. E\on when iodide oi potassium exerts considerable influence, the large doses must be continued for a long time, as the disease is very apt to recur as soon as the drug is left off. Operative.—in Young Subjects.—If the disease persists after a trial of these measures, it is advisable to deal freely with the alfccted area in the following manner. The milder measure of making a free incision through the periosteum down to the bone is not of much practical use ; it may relieve the pain for a time, but it recurs soon after the \\ound has healed, and something more radical is required. Removal of Pei'iosicitm and Gouging of Bone.—It is best to di\-ide the periosteum over the whole area of thickening, and to remove all of it that lies over that area. The new periosteal bone is next gouged away over the same region, and then a groove is cut in the bone towards the centre of the inflamed portion until the medullary cavity is opened. Should the case be one of osteo-myelitis with abscess, the abscess cavity will almost certainly be opened during the operation. It is not clear how the gouging of the inflamed bone leads to such remarkable relief and often to complete cure, seeing that all the inflamed part is not removetl ; but if a cure is to be obtained, it can only be looked for after free removal of the thickened periosteum and the inflamed bone. It has been proposed to bore holes with a bradawl, or to use a small trephine, but these methods ha\'e nothing to recommend them as compared with the free removal of bone. Moreover, it is very easy to o\'erlook an abscess cavity unless the bone be opened up very freely. Drainage of an Abscess.—When an abscess cavity is exposed, it should be opened thoroughly so that no recess is left, and the opening in the bone leading into it should be as large as, if not larger than, the abscess cavity itself; any sequestrum present should be removed, the lining membrane of the abscess should be scraped away, and with it should be removed some of the condensed bone which forms its wall. There is no necessity to pack the wound or apply any antiseptic, l)ecause even in the case of chronic abscess of bone it is questionable whether the organisms causing the abscess are alive ; in any case thev are certainly not \'iru]ent. When the bleeding has been arrested, the soft parts can be brought together and the skin stitched up ; if free oozing be going on, it is well to introduce a small drainage tube at the lower part of the incision, but this should be removed in a day or two. The cavity in the bone becomes filled with blood and healing occurs by organisation of clot. In order to obtain as vigorous a clot as possible, it is well not to pour lotions of any kind into the wound after the operation has been completed ; it is wefl also not to make a vertical incision over the part, but to employ the flap method. In the tibia, for instance, a large flap with the convexity backwards may be turned forwards so as to expose the whole bone ; the incision will then lie nowhere over the gouged cavity in the bone, which will be all the more likely to heal readily on that account.