AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 374 The weak point in the bandage opposite the fold of the groin should be strengthened by incorporating in its folds strips of block-tin or thin malleable iron across the fold of the groin at right angles to Poupart's ligament and in a corresponding situation behind. As a substitute for these, strands of tow teased out and steeped in plaster may be used in a similar manner, but they will not stand so great a strain as the metal. The apparatus should be firm enough not to crack when the patient's full weight is borne upon it, and as light as is consistent with this. It must be allowed to dry thoroughly before any weight is borne upon it. With this object the patient may lie in the horizontal position before a fire for some hours. For recent cases it is much more satisfactory to apply the apparatus when the patient is erect, as the weight of the limb then acts as an extending force; if, however, it has to be put on while the patient lies in bed, extension by weight and pulley or by an assistant must be maintained. When the plaster has set, a boot with a high heel or a patten (see Fig. i8o) is worn upon the sound limb and the patient is allowed to get about on crutches, the toes of the affected limb being slung by a long strip of bandage passing round the neck and beneath the instep. The plaster spica is very useful because it allows the patient to bend the lumbar spine and so he can be propped up in bed; the risk of lung complications is thus minimised. It may require renewal and should be worn for three or four months ; a Thomas's splint may then be substi- tuted for another two or three months. Fairly firm union may be obtained by this method. The Ambulatory Method.—The ambulatory methods of treatment of these injuries and, indeed, of all fractures of the lower extremity has been adopted by Hessing with considerable success and we have used Hoefftcke's modification of his splint with excellent results. A plaster cast of the leg is taken and on this the sphnt is moulded. It consists of a thigh- piece made of perforated leather strengthened with steel bands prolonged below into two lateral steel bars, terminating in a flat foot-piece an inch below the sole of the foot. When the patient is standing, the weight of the body is borne on the tuber ischii and transmitted to the ground through the lateral steel bars. The foot, encased in an accurately fitting anklet, is so arranged that constant extension can be kept up, and the leg is steadied in the splint by a padded leather sheath moulded accurately to it below the knee and laced up down the front. There are hinges opposite the ankle-joint, and m those used for fractures high up in the femur there is a hinge opposite the hip-joint connected with a pelvic band, which not only steadies the apparatus, but prevents external rotation. The sphnt may be safely apphed as soon as the initial shock of the injury has been overcome, and should be worn continuously for the first three weeks. It may then be removed twice a day for massage, and about a fortnight later it may be taken off at night and the patient allowed to move the leg freely in bed. Patients wearing this apparatus need not