458 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES until the whole surface is covered with healthy granulations and then to bring the edges of the skin together, leaving in a drainage tube for a few days. The part should be kept at rest, and when the disease affects the lower extremity, the pelvis or the spine, the patient should remain in bed or on a couch which can be wheeled out into the open air. While healing is taking place, the patient should be put under the best possible hygienic conditions. Many cases of septic tuberculous sinuses, however, are unsuitable for this thorough treatment, and must be treated by local appUcations. Of these the most useful seems to be the injection of an emulsion consisting of bismuth oxychloride one part, vaseline two parts, and liquid paraffin in sufficient quantity to make the mixture about the con- sistency of thick cream at the body temperature. This is injected into the sinuses by means of a screw-down syringe fitted with a soft rubber catheter that will penetrate the sinus. The injection should be made im- mediately after the sinuses have been washed out, and enough force should be used to distend the sinus to the point of discomfort. The injection is left in sihi and is repeated every three or four days, or at longer intervals if the discharge be only slight. In addition to this treatment, tuberculin combined with a vaccine prepared from the contaminating organism may be employed. These septic sinus cases are just the ones that derive least benefit from hygienic treatment. Amputation.—Amputation seldom comes into question except in cases in which joint disease comphcates the bone trouble. But it may have to be considered in extensive bone disease with numerous sinuses, where proper drainage cannot be established or maintained, and where at the same time the patient is suffering from phthisis, albuminuria, or amyloid disease. The indications for amputation, however, are more appropriately considered in connection with joint disease (see Vol. III.). ACTINOMYCOSIS. This disease is due to a fungus called the actinomyces, which is common in cattle. It may affect either the soft tissues or the bones, and it has three main seats, viz. the mouth and its neighbourhood—especially the jaws—the respiratory, and the abdominal organs. The lower jaw is the bone most commonly attacked, and the affection generally begins as a hard tumour about the angle which slowly increases in size until suppuration occurs and an abscess forms and bursts, either into the mouth or externally. The disease goes on destroying the bone, which becomes worm-eaten, and numerous sinuses form and discharge pus containing yellow granules. If a few drops of pus be received in a watch-glass, spread out and held up to the light, these yellow grains can usually be seen distinctly. Under the microscope they appear composed of clumps of actinomyces. Sometimes, however, only a few branching