ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY gets in the way of the operator, and not only hinders identification of the vessel, but runs considerable risk of being punctured. On the whole, it is best not to attempt to ligature this vessel for an innominate aneurysm. When the aneurysm is of the fusiform variety these operations will do no good ; the best plan is to leave the patient alone. Ligature of the Common Carotid Artery above the Omo hyoid.— Surgical Anatoviy.—On the right side the artery commences behind the sterno-clavicular articulation at the bifurcation of the innominate, while on the left it arises from the transverse part of the arch of the aorta. Each terminates at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage; the left carotid is therefore somewhat longer than the right. The line of the artery in the neck is from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the mid-point between the angle of the jaw and the tip of the mastoid process. Relations in the Neck.—In front are the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, and the platysma throughout its whole length. The omo-hyoid crosses it at the level of the cricoid cartilage, and the lower part of the vessel is deeply placed, being covered by the stemo-mastoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The descendens hypoglossi nerve lies on the carotid sheath, though sometimes it is within it, and the artery is crossed by the sterno-mastoid artery, the superior and middle thyroid veins about its middle, and by the anterior jugular vein below. The communicating vein between the facial and the anterior jugular vein which lies along the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid is superficial to the artery. Behind, the artery rests on the longus colli, the scalenus anticus, and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles. The inferior thyroid artery passes behind it at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra, and lower down are the vertebral artery, and on the left side the thoracic duct. The sympathetic nerve is behind the vessel throughout its whole length ; the vagus is behind and to its outer side. On the outer side is the internal jugular vein, which overlaps the artery in its lower i)art, especially on the left side. On the inner side are the trachea, the oesophagus, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve below, the pharynx and larynx above. The thyroid gland is internal to, and sometimes overlaps, the vessel. The carotid sheath is derived from the deep cervical fascia, and con- tains the artery, the internal jugular vein and the vagus nerve, the latter being between the vein and artery, and on a plane posterior to both. Operation.—Ligature of the common carotid trunk for innominate aneurysm is performed as follows: The skin is shaved and the patient lies on his back, with the shoulders raised on a sandbag so as to throw the head slightly back, with the chin towards the opposite side. An incision about three inches in length is made along the line of the artery, viz. in a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The centre of the incision should be opposite the cricoid cartilage. The skin, platysma, 11. o