TUMOURS OF^THE SKIN 25 it is possible to tell which glands will be first infiltrated, it is nndoubtedly advisable to remove these glands, although they are not obviously enlarged. When, however, this is doubtful, it is justifiable to excise the primary growth and leave the glands till they become enlarged. In such cases the patient must be kept under close observation and examined every three or four weeks, in order that the removal of the glands may be done whilst the disease is still limited to them. One other point is also of importance, namely, whether it is necessary to excise the lymphatic vessels and fat, lying between the primary tumour and the glands, as is so strongly to be recommended in breast cancer. It seems, however, that in most cases of the kind which we are now considering it is not necessary. The lymphatic vessels seldom become infected in their course from the primary tumour to the glands. Why tliis should be so is not very clear, but it is a clinical fact. CHELOID. The cheloid condition of scars is fully dealt with in Vol I. Chap. X. p. 204, but we may here refer to the true or Alibert's cheloid, which is supposed to arise spontaneously. These tumours are chiefly situated in front of the sternum and begin as small tubercles which slowly increase in size, sometimes by the coalescence of neighbouring nodules, until they form a firm tumour with an unequal surface, an irregular shape, and edges of a rosy or violet colour running out in tlie form of ridges. TREATMENT.—This must be on lines similar to that for false cheloid (see Vol. I. p. 205). Excision is unsatisfactory, as the scar tends to become cheloid again; it is possible, however, to convert by excision, a large broad tumour into a linear one in this way, and Goldmann has stated that there is no recurrence of the cheloid if the growth be excised freely and the raw surface left be covered immediately with Thiersch's skin- grafts ; this, however, is not always the case. Radium has proved useful in some of these cases.