ANEURYSM 187 needle as it yjasses through the skin and the wall of the aneurysm may burn a hole in the sac, and the aneurysm may thus become diffuse. The needles should be disinfected by boiling ; they should not be immersed in strong carbolic solution, which destroys the insulating material. If more needles than one are introduced, they should be kept parallel to one another in order to produce the greatest effect. The strength of the current employed may be varied, but it should not be stronger than 50 milliamperes to begin with, and it should be continued until tlie sac becomes firm under the finger, as it usually does in about a quarter to half an hour ; the needles may be then withdrawn and the punctures painted over with collodion. The operation may be repeated once a week if necessary, and no anaesthetic is required. The Introduction of Foreign Bodies into the Sac.—This method was at one time largely employed with the object of producing clotting around the foreign bodies, the materials used being fine iron or silver wire or horsehair. In a certain number of cases success followed this method, but in others no cure was effected, although large quantities of the foreign body were introduced. In some cases the latter has been known to pass from the aneurj^sm into the general arterial system, and to have caused fatal results. The method generally adopted has been to introduce a considerable length of wire into the sac through a canula After the wire has been passed into the cavity, the canula is withdrawn and the projecting end of the wire is pushed into the sac After the canula has been removed, the aperture must be sutured or ligatured in order to prevent haemorrhage taking place. Neglect of this detail has led to the death of the patient. Cages of steel wire compressed into the form of a cylinder have also been designed 1 (see Fig. 70). When the wire is in position in the sac, it expands at once; one or more cages may be employed according to the size of the sac and the amount of clotting surface it is thought desirable to have. Maceiven s MctJiod.—Instead of introducing foreign bodies into the aneurysm and leaving them in situ, Macewen has suggested the insertion of fine steel pins through the wall of the sac in such a manner as to scratch or scarify the wall on the opposite side over a considerable area, and thus to produce a rough surface upon which clot will be deposited. The pins should be of tempered steel, as fine as possible, and should taper to a point like the ordinary sewing needle ; on the opposite extremity is a rounded head. The skin and the pins are disinfected ; the pin or pins are then made to penetrate the sac and pass right through its cavity until the point is felt to come into contact with the opposite side, which it should be made to touch but not to penetrate. The point of the pin is then moved over the surface of the wall upon which it has impinged so ' D'Arry Power and Colt, Trans. Med. Chiv. Soc, vol. Ixxxvi. p. 363.