TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 65 II. F RUPTURE OF MUSCLES. Rupture of a muscle may occur without an external wound, and results from violent, irregular, or inco-ordinated contraction. An actual rupture of muscle is much less common than is rupture of a tendon ; it generally occurs in men, and is usually only partial. The muscle which ruptures may be quite healthy or it may have been the seat of disease or atrophy previously. Rupture of a healthy muscle generally results from some violent exertion, especially some sudden and unexpected movement, such as recovering the balance. The muscles which most commonly rupture in this way are the plantaris in plajdng tennis, the rectus femoris in recovering the balance, the pectoral or the deltoid in throwing, the biceps in pulling, the sacro-lumbalis in twisting the body rapidly, and the adductor longus in riders. The long muscles are most exposed to this injury, which generally occurs at or near the point of junction of the muscular fibres with the tendon ; the rupture may be either complete or partial. Effusion of blood occurs between the divided ends, and if the case be left alone, the ultimate result is the formation of a fibrous cicatrix between the torn ends with possibly some slight regenera- tion of muscular fibres. As time goes on, this cicatrix, which is broad and resisting at first, tends to stretch considerably, so that the patient never regains the full use of the muscle. On the other hand, rupture is not uncommon in old persons, the muscles in the old taking part in the general atrophy of the body ; or again, the affected muscle may be the seat of waxy or fatty degeneration, such as occurs, for example, after typhoid or any other acute infective fever- The muscles most frequently affected after infected diseases are the rectus abdominis below the umbilicus, and the psoas ; in both cases rupture generall}^ occurs when the patient sits up in bed too suddenly. The symptoms accompanying this accident are sudden pain in the part, with a sensation of tearing, followed by loss of power in the affected muscle. There is a characteristic depression over the seat of rupture, and a swelling immediately above it, due to the retraction of the upper part of the muscle; the gap and the swelling above it become more pronounced when the muscle is voluntarily thrown into contraction. TREATMENT.—In Recent Cases.—There are two methods at the disposal of the surgeon, viz., suture of the torn muscle fibres or an attempt to get healing without operation. The decision depends upon whether the rupture is complete or incomplete, whether the muscle is healthy or diseased, and also whether it is an important one. When an important healthy muscle is torn through almost completely and there is no contra- indication, the best treatment is immediate operation, which, however, should only be done by those who are sure of the asepsis of their wounds. If the wound become septic, very disastrous suppuration may occur, leading not only to permanent impairment of the limb from adhesions