TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES 289 indicated. If the fracture be oblique, or if there be any difficulty in keeping the ends in position, it is well to take advantage of the incision already made and to fix the fragments together. After the wound has been stitched up, a drainage tube is inserted at one end, and the limb is put on a splint, the lower end of which should be slightly elevated. When the circulation is interrupted by the pressure exerted upon the vessel by a displaced fragment—an accident which is indicated by loss of pulsation and by coldness of the limb below without the occurrence of any swelling at the seat of fracture—it is possible that the pressure will l:>e removed and the circulation re-established on effecting accurate coaptation of the fractured ends. If this cannot be done by simple manipulation, fir if there be any uncertainty as to the accuracy of the reposition of the tragments, the best l)ractice is to make an incision at once and fix the fragments in place (see p. 305). At the same time the limb below should be disinfected, wrapped up in antiseptic wool, as for the treatment of impending gangi^ene (see Vol. I. p. 73), and carefully watched to see whether or not the circulation becomes re-established. In putting the limb on a splint under these circumstances, it is important that no undue pressure should be exercised on any part, as otherwise sloughing readily occurs at any point where even slight pressure has been exerted, although the collateral circulation may be restored in the limb as a whole. Should gangrene occur, immediate amputation should be resorted to, as soon as its extent can be gauged. As a rule it is well to amputate at, or just above the seat of fracture. False Aneurysm.—The treatment of a false aneurysm has been already described (see p. 167). The aneurysm need not be operated upon until the fracture has undergone consolidation, unless it be increasing rapidly, for it does not necessarily interfere with union, whilst the opera- tion required for its cure might possibly do so. Iiijiu'y to tlie Main Vein.—Injuries to the main vein, occurring as complications of fracture, do not materially aggravate the severitj' of tlie case. Repair and recovery usually take place uninterruptedly ; all that is necessary is to facilitate the return of blood from the parts below by raising the limb slightly above the level of the trunk ; at the same time the limb should be enveloped in antiseptic wool, so as to promote warmth. When both the main artery and vein are damaged simulta- neously, the danger of gangrene is greater than when the injury is limited to only one of these vessels, but recovery will occur in a good many cases, if care be taken to wrap the limb up, to elevate it, and to see that there is no undue pressure anywhere. Injiuy to tlie Main ISTerve.—The main nerves are sometimes torn by the fractured ends, and this accident is evidenced by loss of sensation and motion in the part supplied by the nerves injured. When it is clear that an accident of this kind has happened, the nerve ends 11. u