AFFECTIONS OF NERVES 132 the patient be very muscular or fat, a small transverse incision may be made at each end of it. The curved incision may have its con- vexity either upwards, downwards, or to one side; on the whole, a lateral flap is best. The convexity of the curve extends to one side as far as the outer edge of the spinal muscles, and crosses the middle hne both at the upper and lower ends (see Fig. 45). Retraction of the Muscles.—The next point is the separation of the muscles from the spinous processes and the laminje. This should be effected as rapidly as possible. Any spouting vessel should be clamped and a sponge wrung out of hot sahne solution (about 110° to 120° F.) should be packed into the vertebral groove on one side, while the muscles on the opposite side are being separated, and in a very shoil time the oozing stops. The muscles are divided at their attachment to the spinous pro- cesses and are then rapidly stripped off with a curved raspatory as far out as the transverse processes ; they are pulled firmly aside by large flat retractors. Removal of the Spinous Processes.—When the neural arches have been thoroughly cleared, the spinous processes are removed. This is done by nipping through their bases with a pair of angular cutting pliers processes should be identified again, so as to avoid the possibility of dividing the wrong nerves. Removal of the Lamince.—The spinal canal is now opened by removing the laminae. Taylor (see Hey Groves, loc. cit.) suggests a hemi- laminectomy when the affection is one-sided and, according to Hey Groves, this is an excellent plan in the cervical region. In the lumbar region, however, a complete laminectomy is necessary owing to want of room. Here there is a choice between two procedures : in the one the laminae are completely removed; in the other, they are detached, lifted up upon a hinge and subsequently replaced in position. The latter method is called osteo-plastic resection and is theoretically the better, because after the operation the bony covering to the cord is restored, and adhesion between the cicatrix and the dura mater is avoided; but it prolongs the operation considerably, adds to the shock, and is not always easy to perform. We shall describe both methods, but the osteo-plastic form will probably be rarely used. The great difficulty in either case is the removal of the first lamina, because it is essential to avoid injuring the cord in the process. It may be done in various ways. Fig. 46.—Laminectomy Pliers; (see Fig. 46) ; it is generally well to remove the spinous process both of the vertebra above and that below the ones to be operated upon, in order to gain proper access to the laminae. After retracting the soft parts forcibly, the spinous