no AFFECTIONS OF NERVES pressure thereby produced on them usually ends in the production of a neuritis spreading up to the trunk of the nerve. Symptoms.—However produced, compression of a large trunk nerve gives rise to symptoms which vary according as the nerve is sensory, motor, or mixed ; in the latter case the sensory filaments are usually the first affected. In the case of a sensory nerve, the patient first complains of neuralgia in the part supplied by the nerve, followed by sensations of heat and cold, numbness, hyperaesthesia, and subsequently complete ansesthesia. In a mixed nerve, the sensory disturbance is followed at a somewhat later period by motor paralysis ; this is slight at first, but it gradually increases in degree as the compression advances. If the com- pression and its effects—that is to say, neuritis—still continue, trophic changes, such as the formation of bullae, ulcerations of the skin, wasting of muscles, and so forth, may take place in the parts supphed by the nerve. When nerve-endings are imphcated in cicatrices or malignant growths of the skin, the symptoms are generally great pain, hyperccsthesia, excessive tenderness on pressure, reflex pain in distant parts, convulsive twitching of muscles or even of the whole limb, and, in rare cases, epilepti- form convulsions. Treatment.—Prophylaxis.—The dangers resulting from the com- pression of nerves should always be present to the mind of the surgeon, and must be guarded against wherevei possible. In appljdng com- pression to a limb the possibility of injury to the nerve should always be remembered ; for example, if a narrow tourniquet or elastic tube be tightly apphed to the upper arm, the nerves are apt to suffer injurious pressure because of their exposed situations. Hence, tubing should not be used as a tourniquet here, but a broad piece of elastic webbing should be employed in its place; this will exercise sufficiently firm pressure, but will do no harm, since the pressure is diffused owing to its breadth. Again, the possibility of crutch palsy in a patient compelled to use crutches must be borne in mind, and special care must be taken to see that the crutches are not too long for the patient, and that the arms are sufficiently padded. It is also very important to have handles or rests fitted to the crutches at a proper height, so that the palms may be made to bear the pressure, and not the axillae. In fractures also, the possibility of the inclusion of a nerve between the broken ends of the bones, or of subsequent inclusion of the nerve in the callus must not be lost sight of. When reducing the fracture, care must be taken to see that no soft tissues are left between the bones, and directly symptoms pointing to compression of a nerve make their appearance, steps should be taken to remedy it, even should this involve operative interference. When there is a chance of the terminations of a nerve becoming involved in a cicatrix and leading to a painful scar, every possible means of promoting rapid healing, more especially the avoidance of sepsis, must be had recourse to. When the edges of a wound can be brought