TUBERCULOSIS 15 brane, and may thus completely destroy the soft parts of the nose, leaving the bones intact, however. The course of the disease is exceedingly slow, as a rule, and years may elapse before any marked destruction is caused. TREATMENT.—The disease is a local one, although it often occurs in patients who have an hereditary tuberculous taint, or who are suffering from tuberculosis elsewhere. Hence, although general treatment, such as is recommended in Vol. I. Chap. XII., is advisable in all cases, the disease will not, as a rule, disappear without local interference. The methods of local treatment have undergone great changes in recent years, and we are indebted to our colleague. Dr. Arthur Whitfield, Physician in charge of the Skin Department at King's College Hospital, for the following account of present-day knowledge :— ' The treatment of lupus may be considered under four headings :— ' (i) By surgical operation. ' (2) By physical means without operation. ' (3) By drugs and caustics. ' (4) By attempts to immunise the patient to the specific bacillus. ' (i) Operative—Small patches of lupus may be excised and the edges brought together, so that a neat linear scar results. In the present state of knowledge this is probably always the best method where possible, as relapse is extremely rare and the scar is practically negligible The points to remember are that the incision should go sufficiently wide of the disease, at least a quarter of an inch, and, above all, so deep that the knife does not cut through any infected tissue with the consequent risk of con- taminating the wound. Larger patches may be excised, and the raw surface left may be skin-grafted. This method of treatment is not to be recommended unless there are urgent reasons for it, since the result, where successful, is the production of a bad scar, and, moreover, relapse occurs within the grafts in the great majority of cases. ' Scraping with the Volkmann's spoon is still used a good deal, but it should never be trusted to alone. An efficient scraping, first with a good sized and afterwards with a very small spoon, followed by the packing of the raw surface with a paste made up of powdered zinc chloride and glycerine, gives wonderful results in many cases. It is true a few nodules often recur, but if these are persistently bored out and filled up with zinc chloride paste the disease in many cases may be actually cured and the resulting scar, though often a good deal thickened, is usually less unsightly than that after Thiersch grafting. Scarification, which has gone a good deal out of fashion, still has its advocates. With a single Vidal's or a multiple knife, the whole area is minced up very finely by cross strokes, and after the bleeding has stopped sterilised iodoform is rubbed in vigor- ously. The process is not very painful, but it has to be repeated several times. The resulting scar is hardl}' visible. ' (2) Non-operative—A. The Light Method.—After a great deal of