38 AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS limb should be employed in order to combat the oedema (see Vol. I. Chap. I.). The only form of this affection requiring special notice is elephantiasis. ELEPHANTIASIS is an affection characterised by an enlarge- ment of parts due to inflammatory oedema especially connected with the lymphatic vessels. In addition to the distension of the tissues with fluid, there is hypertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissues and not uncommonly of the other structures of the limb as well. "Varieties.—There are two distinct varieties of this affection. The Non-parasitic Form.—This is usually inflammatory in origin and is the form most common in this country. In it there is lymphatic obstruction and a local inflammatory state of the tissues. Tuberculosis of the lymphatic vessels and glands is sometimes the cause of this con- dition, and it is almost always found to some degree in patients with chronic ulceration of the leg or chronic eczema, or in those who suffer from repeated attacks of chronic Ij^mphangitis. Sometimes a whole limb, generally the lower one, becomes enormously enlarged without any apparent cause, the subcutaneous tissues become firm and solid and do not pit on pressure, or only very slightly, and then the skin and underlying tissues become hypertrophied ; the former becomes coarse and is often thrown into large folds and irregular masses. Warty growths develop, and chi-onic ulcers may arise as a result of the accumulation of septic material between the folds of the skin. The Parasitic Form.—In the second variety the invasion of the lymphatic vessels by a parasite, the Filaria sanguinis hominis leads to an enormous hyperplasia of the tissues from which they derive lymph. The adult worms inhabit the larger trunks and are of consider- able size. The embryos, on the other hand, are microscopic, and are remarkable for their habit of appearing in the blood only at night. Although some obstruction may be caused by the worms themselves, the most important factor in the causation of elephantiasis is the chronic lymphangitis and thrombosis of the larger lymphatic trunks produced by them. The whole of the tissues of the part affected are enlarged, but the main part of the swelling is due to the hyperplasia of the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Warty growths are common, and there are a number of deep clefts between them in which dirt and the secretions of the skin accumulate. In consequence of this, ulcerations occur, which heal with difficulty, owing partly to the impossibility of keeping the part clean and partly to the deficient vascular supply. The parts usually affected are the legs and the external genitals in both sexes. Course.—The endemic form is generally characterised by an acute onset, which often takes place after fatigue or injury, with the occurrence of lymphangitis, a certain amount of fever, headache, vomiting, redness and swelling of the parts, etc. This subsides, and after an interval further attacks may occiu% and so it goes on until the condition of elephantiasis is