NECROSIS FOLLOWING ACUTE OSTEO-MYELITIS 447 remains quite quiet, the blood-clot remains solid and gradually undergoes organisation into fibrous tissue and the skin wound heals. If the attempt fails, the wound becomes painful and red, the blood-clot breaks down and healing by first intention does not occur. When the wound remains aseptic, it is worth while to try to get organisa- tion of blood-clot in it. Under such circumstances one may be content to leave things alone, and trust to the organisation of the blood-clot as referred to in the ]:>receding paragraph. It not uncommonly happens, however, that, while organisation goes on to a considerable extent, some of the clot becomes fluid and a collection of serum gradually makes its way out through the scar and leaves a sinus which does not always remain aseptic. Hence with a view of getting a better clot, various substances, of which the chief are catgut, decalcified bone or a mixture of iodoform and paraffin have been left in the wound to assist the clotting. Of these, decalcified bone and the iodoform and paraffin mixture are the best. The bone is cut into small pieces, decalcified and placed in absolute alcohol until just before use, when it is immersed for some minutes in sterile salt solution. Decalcified cancellous bone is better than the compact tissue when it can be got ; it is lighter and more porous and thus forms a supporting medium. It should be well squeezed and then packed into the cavity in small fragments pretty close together, until the cavity is filled up to the level of the periosteum, before the tourniquet is relaxed. The periosteum is then brought together by catgut sutures, as close as it will come over the cavity. When the bone is deep-seated, it is well also to bring the muscles together with catgut stitches. If there be free oozing, a small drainage tube should be inserted at the lower end of the wound for the first twenty-four hours, but a drainage tube is unnecessary when the oozing is slight. Antiseptic dressings are applied and the limb is placed upon a splint. The result of tins in an aseptic woimd is healing by first intention, and the blood-clot between the fragments of bone becomes penetrated with cells which find their way also into the decalcified bone, so that ultimately the whole cavity is filled with young tissue which gradually organises into fibrous tissue. This method is much the most rapid and satisfactory, but is only effectual in an aseptic wound. At the end of three weeks the splint should be left off, and the patient allowed to move the limb in bed. Only slight movement must be permitted at first, as otherwise the organisation of the grafts may be interfered with. As much movement as the patient cares to do in bed will not usually do any harm. It is important to promote early move- ment, for not only are the movements of the neighbouring joints apt to be impeded by the occurrence of some synovitis, but the muscles are specially likely to become adherent to the edges of the cavity in the