SCURVY-RICKETS 469 subperiosteal htemorrhages in the long bones. At some point along the course of the bone a firm swelling develops, which gradually increases in extent and may spread along the entire length of the shaft. This swelling consists of blood extravasated beneath the periosteum, and also, to a lesser extent, among the deeper muscles. As a rule, fluctuation is difficult to make out. The femur is most frequently affected, and the bones of the lower extremities are usually attacked before those of the upper. Fractures, either spontaneous or following slight violence, are apt to occixr in bones thus affected, and union does not take place until the disease has become arrested. In cases of scurvy, pure and simple, these fractures are commonest in the shafts of the long bones; while in the cases of scurvy associated with rickets, separation of one or both epiphyses of the bone affected is more likely to be met with. Spongy and bleeding gums are not very noticeable in these cases. If the child has no teeth, there is but little alteration in the gums. The older the child is, however, the more prominent this symptom becomes, while the lesions in the long bones are proportionately less severe. (T SYMPTOMS.—A child affected with scurvy becomes Ustless and anaemic, sallow in colour, and irritable if disturbed. There may be the characteristic bleeding and spongy gums or haemorrhages from the bowel or kidneys, or into the subcutaneous tissues. Hsematuria is an important symptom, and when this symptom occurs in infants the possibility of scurvy-rickets being the cause should never be forgotten ; the kidney has been vainly explored for stone under these circumstances. Later on there are extravasations of blood beneath the periosteum of various bones, chiefly those of the extremities, resulting in inability to use the affected limbs and intense pain when they are handled. If the case be left un- treated, the hemorrhages increase, and the child dies from exhaustion or some intercurrent affection. Quite trivial cases of scurvy occur in which the only symptom to attract attention is tenderness of the lower extremities, the child crying whenever he is handled or washed. Occasionally there may be slight reddening around any teeth that are present, but the tenderness may be the only symptom. That these patients are really suffering from scurvy is shown by the rapidity with which the symptoms yield to treatment; they disappear completely in two or three days. TREATMENT.—Prophylaxis.—No child, brought up upon a suitable diet, can develop this condition. There is no known case of the disease among infants brought up on breast-milk during the ordinary lactation period; after that time it is said that the milk undergoes changes which rob it to a certain extent of its anti-scorbutic powers.