58 AFFECTIONS OF BURS^ movements of the joint sufficiently to permit rapid healing. The stitches may be taken out in a week, a collodion dressing applied, and the patient allowed to walk on the eighth day. The scar of the curved incision, recommended above, does not lie over the lower part of the bone, so that there is no danger of pressure upon the scar and pain on kneeling. The skin over the patella soon becomes supple, and the patient experiences no inconvenience from the absence of the bursa. Palliative.—This should only be employed when the patient declines radical treatment ; it consists in rest and counter-irritation. The limb is placed upon a back splint, the patient being kept recumbent or only allowed to walk with the splint on, and iodine or blisters are applied over the bursa. Time may be saved by drawing off the fluid with an aspirating needle before applying the counter-irritation. If the patient continue to walk, only a slight diminution of the swelling results as a rule ; if, however, she be confined to bed from the first, the swelling may disappear almost entirely, the fluid being absorbed, and only a thickened bursal wall left. In many cases it is then possible to feel cords or loose bodies moving under the finger in the interior of the bursa. If the patient resumes kneeling, the effusion recurs, so that nothing is gained by this palliative method of treatment unless kneeling can be given up. Other methods intermediate between complete excision and rest have been employed. For example, the bursa may be aspirated and injected with tincture of iodine or undiluted carbolic acid, as is done in the case of a hydrocele ; at least as much time is taken up by this method of treatment, however, as if excision were practised, and the result is uncertain. Incision and drainage will often cure the trouble permanently, even if loose bodies or tags be present in the bursal cavity, as they can be removed at the same time, but this plan does not possess any advantage over excision. In the first place, it takes longer (as a rule, it is not possible to leave out the tube in less than ten days, and then the wound has still to heal), and it is more dangerous on account of the risk of sepsis. If sepsis were to occur in the wound made for removal of the bursa (provided no communication had been made with the joint), it would probably be a purely local accident ; whereas, sepsis in an open bursa is followed by violent suppurative inflammation, which not only causes prolonged local trouble, but may lead to general septic infection. Recurrence of the original bursitis has taken place after incision and drainage. TUBERCULOSIS. This is not very uncommon, and the disease runs the ordinary course of tuberculosis elsewhere. The wall of the bursa becomes thickened, and effusion occurs into its cavity. The fluid often contains rice or melon- seed bodies. These are oval-shaped masses, white or yellowish-white in colour, and of a soft texture. Subsequently pus is developed, which