449 QUIET NECROSIS These patients are usually very debilitated by the previous acute illness and the prolonged suppuration following it, and they should be placed on a generous diet and given suitable tonics ; if possible they should be sent to the country, and if unable to walk they should be wheeled out in the open air as much as possible. In all cases of long continued suppuration after necrosis, it is well to examine the urine frequently for albumen. When once the sepsis has been eradicated, the albuminuria, which is usually due to amyloid degeneration, will commonly pass off as the wound heals. Amputation.—^The foregoing refers to the treatment of sequestra in young people. In patients who are over fifty-five the problem is different, because obliteration of the cavity will hardly be likely to occur after removal of the sequestrum and it is very important for the old to get well as soon as possible. Hence it seems to us best to amputate the limb when the necrosis is extensive or affects the lower extremity, whether the necrosis follows a compound fracture, an amputation, or some acute disease in early life. Attempts to get the cavity to fill up after removal of the seques- trum are liable to end in disappointment ; and it must not be forgotten that the operation of sequestrotomy is often severe and accompanied by shock and considerable loss of blood, which may lead to very serious consequences in people of advanced age. The after-effects of the opera- tion are certainly more severe after a bad sequestrotomy than after amputation, so that, both from the point of view of rapid healing and of the safety of the patient, amputation is the better practice. Another point of importance is that when a sequestrum has remained in siin for many years, severe albuminuria is often present, and in such cases it is safer to amputate than to remove the sequestrum. QUIET NECROSIS. Sir James Paget described a condition that he called ' quiet necrosis,' in which death of portions of bone occurs without any violent inflamma- tion and without the formation of sinuses. These cases are rare, and it is probable that some of them are really cases of tuberculous disease of the bone, while others are complications of enteric fever. We have met with cases in which a sequestrum lay in the middle of much thickened bone, without any suppuration around. TREATMENT.—The only interest in the condition from the point of view of treatment is to remember that when thickened bone, resulting from chronic inflammation, is being operated upon, the possibility of hnding a sequestrum or a chronic abscess in the centre of the enlarged area should not be lost sight of; if a sequestrum be found, it must be removed. If a deep cavity be left in the bone, bone-grafts may be intro- duced immediately ; or it may be left to heal by blood-clot (see p. 446). In any case the wound should be closed without drainage, and immediate healing will probably result.