INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 43 neighbourhood become enlarged, soft at first, tender and painful, and, after a time, matted to the surrounding parts as a result of peri-adenitis. If no suppuration occur, the pain generally subsides in the course of a few days, and the swelling gradually goes down, though it may be some weeks before it disappears entirely. Should suppuration occur, the glands become fixed, the skin reddened over them, and fluctuation soon becomes evident. As a rule, suppuration does not take place until the sixth or seventh day ; it usually results in a circumscribed abscess, but sometimes, especially in the neck, a diffuse cellulitis may be set up. TREATMENT.—The treatment, in the early stage before suppura- tion has commenced, is that of acute inflammation (see Vol. I. Chap. I.) ; in addition, an^^ primary focus giving rise to irritation of the glands should be treated. Inflamed ulcers should be disinfected, boils should be incised, and so on. Warm fomentations (see Vol. I. p. 12) should be applied over the gland, the parts kept at rest, if necessary on a splint, and the general treatment attended to. When an abscess forms in connection with the gland it should be opened hke any other acute abscess (see Vol. I. p. 27). Besides simply incising the abscess, however, it is well to remove the remains of the gland, because there may originally have been several foci of suppuration in it. and, although the main one is opened, the others may subsequently enlarge and keep up the suppuration. Hence an incision in the line of cleavage of the skin (see Vol. I. p. 134) large enough to admit the finger should be made, and if portions of the gland be felt at the bottom of the wound, they may be enucleated by the finger aided by a sharp spoon ; it is not necessary to make an elaborate dissection for the purpose. The resulting cavity should be drained; as a rule healing will occur in the course of a few days. This method does not apply to the acute form of adenitis due to venereal causes, which is described separately (see p. 45). CHRONIC ADENITIS. Chronic adenitis may follow on or precede the acute form, and is not uncommonly associated with uncleanliness, lice, eczema, ulcers, etc. When the cervical glands are affected, the presence of enlarged tonsils and adenoids should be looked for, and the state of the mouth and teeth should be investigated. Oral sepsis is frequently present in these cases. If the enlargement persist for some time, or increase in size, it will fre- quently be found, on excising the affected gland, that the condition is a tuberculous one ; secondary tuberculous infection is very prone to occur in these chronic cases. TRBATMEWT.—If a primary source of irritation can be found, it should be removed at once ; for example, an eczema, oral sepsis, or an open ulcer, should receive appropriate treatment; while, should the condition arise from lice or uncleanliness, the removal of the cause is all that is