125 NEURITIS In bad cases the affection may ascend to the spinal cord, and in the severer forms a myeUtis may actually be set up. Diagnosis of Neuritis from Neuralgia.—Neuritis is often accompanied by neuralgia, but the latter may occur apart from neuritis. These affections are very apt to be confounded—a matter of primary importance since the treatment differs considerably in the two cases. In neuralgia the pain is intermittent, whilst in neuritis it is continuous ; in neuralgia there is no tenderness along the course of the nerve, while this is almost invariably found when the nerve is inflamed. In neuralgia there is no local elevation of temperature, no spasm of the muscles supplied by the nerve, and no paralysis ; and lastly the trophic lesions above described do not occur. TREATMENT.—Propliylactic treatment is of great import- ance in wounds in the neighbourhood of large nerve trunks, particularl}/ when the latter have been divided or lacerated. The risk of neuritis in these cases must be borne in mind, and care taken to prevent it. The first point is to see that the wotmd is kept aseptic, because neuritis is more frequent in septic than in aseptic wounds. Hence, scrupulous care should be taken to disinfect all wounds involving or occurring in the neighbourhood of important nerves. Search should also be made for any foreign body which may be lying in contact with the nerve. When a nerve has been divided in a wound, it is important to sec that its Olds arc not left projecting upon the surface, or in any position in which they may become involved in the scar. Hence in amputation wounds it is the rule to pull out the large nerves with forceps, and cut them short, so that they shall be divided at a considerably higher level than the muscles and other structures. When a nerve has been torn across, it is well to cut off the lacerated portion, and then to bring the divided ends of the nerve together and suture them if possible. When neuritis is established the most important point is to search for the cause and remove it, if possible. This may be local or general, and it must be remembered that a neuritis set up by a local cause may sometimes be much aggravated by the general constitutional coia- ditions already referred to. Any local cause must, therefore, be searched for first. Should the neuritis be due to an area of inflammation in the vicinity of the nerve, such as a carious tooth, this should be removed, or treated so as to get rid of the irritation as quickly as possible. Should the neuritis occur in connection with a cicatrix, the scar must be excised ; should it occur in connection with amputation flaps, a fresh amputation must be performed higher up, or the flaps opened up, and the ends of the nerves freed from the scar and cut short, so as to avoid the possibility of their implication a second time. In addition, any constitu- tional causes should be treated ; if the patient be alcoholic, the alcohol should be cut off; should there be a rheumatic tendency, treatment by salicylate of soda or salicin should be adopted ; \\ hile, if the patient be