REMOVAL OF THE ENTIRE UPPER EXTREMITY 525 have infected tliis structure ; in these cases the deltoid should not be raised with the flap, and the division of the rotators should be effected at some distance from the joint. Then, if the condition of the parts permits, the neck of the glenoid cavity should be cleared without opening the capsule and detached with powerful cutting pliers or a chisel, and the whole of the glenoid cavity with the capsule of the joint intact shoald be removed in one piece. Operation by Lateral Flaps.—The incisions for this operation com- mence just below and external to the tip of the coracoid process. They run down, at first vertically for about four inches, and then diverge in a curved form with the convexity downwards across the inner and outer aspects of the limb, to meet at a point over the posterior fold of the axilla opposite their commencement. The flaps should be of equal length; it is easy to secure the axillary vessels in the inner flap as the incision is being deepened, and thus no compression of the vessels is required. Furneaux Jordan's Method.—This amputation is similar to Fur- neaux Jordan's amputation at the hip-joint and may be applicable to cases of long-standing bone disease, especially extensive osteo-myelitis or necrosis. The arm is amputated by the modified circular method (see p. 486) at about the level of the insertion of the deltoid, the flaps being made somewhat antero-external and postero-internal ; an incision is then carried vertically upwards upon the inner side of the arm from the junction of the flaps towards the tip of the coracoid process. This incision is deepened down to the bone, the periosteum is peeled off and the upper end of the bone is extracted (see Fig. 238, C). In this operation a certain amount of new bone may form from the periosteum left behind ; if not, there will be a firm fibrous centre to the stump which should give useful support to an artificial limb. The cases in which an operation of this kind will be called for are extremely few nowadays, as amputation for necrosis is of the greatest rarity. Even should it be necessary to open up the whole length of the bone in order to remove the sequestrum, this is j)referable to amputation. Therefore, we are of opinion that Spence's method is the best when it can be done, and when it cannot the deltoid or lateral flap methods seem to offer the most satisfactory results. REMOVAL OF THE ENTIRE UPPER EXTREMITY. Indications.—It may be necessary to remove the entire upper extremity, that is to say, the upper limb together with the scapula. The cases calling for this severe operation are those of malignant disease of the upper end of the humerus involving the scapula, or malignant disease of the scapula, which has spread to the shoulder-joint or the soft parts in the region of the shoulder to such an extent that it is unsafe to leave the