AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS 515 PARTIAL AMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND. There are many partial amputations of the hand, for which it is ahnost impossible to give directions, as they may be varied widely to meet the circumstances of different cases. The essential points to bear in mind are that even the smallest portion of a hand is of great value to the patient, and its place can never be adequately filled by any artifi- cial sul»titute ; consequently no considerations such as opening jcjints, or tendon sheaths, or partial removals of bone should be allowed to stand in the way of operations of this kind, provided always that asepsis can be maintained, and that the case be not septic to start with. Tlie majority or the whole of the fingers may be removed, large portions of the meta- carpal bones, and even of the carpus may be taken away ; but, so long as the smallest portion of the bony structures of the hand or wrist can be left behind, this should be done. The flaps, when possible, should be taken from the palmar aspect, as the structures there are more vascular than those on the dorsum, and are therefore less likely to slough. More- over the flexor tendons can then be retained in the flap, and will help to increase the usefulness of the wrist. The fle.xor tendons should be seized when tiie flap is raised, cut as long as possible and stitched to the end of the stump, so that the power of flexion shall be preserved ; if this precaution be omitted, the object of the operation will be largely defeated, as the tendons will retract up their sheath and movement may be almost entirely lost, even though a considerable portion of the bony structures of the liand be left. The extensor tendons should be treated similarly. AMPUTATION OF THE THUMB. The operations for amputation of the thumb are practicall}^ the same as those for removal of the fingers, but the larger size of the bones will call for proportionately longer and larger flaps. What has been said as to the importance of leaving portions of the fingers behind applies still more strongly to the thumb. Every additional inch or fraction of an inch that can be preserved is of value to the patient, and in practice the operations necessary for the removal of the thumb will nearly alwa3's be some form of partial amputation rather than the typical operations described in text-books. The terminal plialanx of the thumb may be removed in a manner exactly similar to that described for removal of the tip of the finger (seeFig. 234, A). Ampntatioji atthe ])ietacaypo-pliahuigeal joi)it is best done by a racket-shaped incision which must be carried well down beyond the head of the metacarpal so as to insure plent}' of co\-ering for the large head of the bone. In order to avoid pressure on the scar and damage to the tendons, it is well to place the handle of the racket on the radial side of the thumb rather than o\ er the dorsum ; the oval part of the racket should reach down to the middle of the first phalanx (see Fig. 234, B). The