AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES 66 of far greater severity than would have been the case had there been no operation, but even to loss of Ufe. If, however, the surgeon has con- fidence in his power of securing asepsis, he is doing the best thing for his patient by suturing the muscle at once, and he will get a far better result by this means than by treating the case by position and relaxation of the muscle. Operative.—A curved incision is made across the limb an inch or so above or below the seat of rupture, and the flap of skin and fascia thus marked out is turned aside. The convexity of the incision should run well beyond the actual line of rupture in the shorter por- tion of the muscle, so that the horns of the incision can be ex- tended if much retraction of the other longer portion has taken place, and thus the torn ends can be completely exposed. A curved incision is preferable to a vertical or transverse one, not only because it gives better ac- cess to the parts, but also because the line of union in the muscle nowhere corresponds to the scar in the skin, and therefore ad- hesions between the scar and the rent in the muscle do not occur. The blood lying between the divided ends of the muscle comes into view as the deep fascia is divided and must be cleared out ; then the ends of the muscle are united by means of the suture just described (see Fig. 15), as many stitches being inserted as are required by the size of the muscle. Silk is better than catgut for the deep sutures, for here the wound is through unbroken skin, and is not expected to become septic ; the silk is stronger than catgut, and thus the patient may be allowed to move the limb rather sooner than if catgut were used. The union is completed by a fine continuous catgut suture. The deep fascia is then sutured separately and the wound closed. After-treatment.—^The limb should be put on a splint, with the muscle completely relaxed. In two or three days the latter is gradually put upon the stretch until, after a week or ten days, it is fully extended. The Fig. 16.—^LiNE of Incision for Suture of a Ruptured Muscle. The shaded area denotes the depression corresponding to the gap between the divided ends.