ANEURYSM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY After the innominate artery has been tied, a ligature should be applied to the common carotid, close to its origin ; this can be done through the same wound. All hcemorrhage should be arrested by pressure and ligature before the wound is closed, and the muscles are allowed to fall back into their proper position or are sutured with fine catgut. It may be thought advisable to ligature the vertebral artery, but this is very difficult to do through a median incision unless the patient be very spare, and then it can only be done when the aneurysm does not bulge much towards the inner side. Tlie Collateral Circulation ajter Ligature of the Innominate Artery.— (i) Free anastomosis of the vertebrals and branches of the internal / '■ u /j c 3 e y Fig. 8i.—Ligature of the Innominate Artery through a flap incision COMBINED with e.xcision OF A PORTION OF THE CLAVICLE, [a] Sterno-mastoid muscle, divided ; (6) common carotid artery ; (c) subclavian artery ; (d) innominate vein ; [e) innominate artery ; (/) lower portion of sterno-mastoid muscle. The right stemo-clavicular articulation has been excised. carotids through the circle of Willis. (2) The branches of the two external carotids communicating across the mid-line of the head and neck. (3) The first aortic intercostal artery with the superior intercostal C'f the subcla\'ian ; the aortic intercostals with the thoracic branches of the axillary and the intercostal branches of the internal mammary artery ; the deep epigastric with the superior epigastric of the internal mammary ; the phrenic with the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary. Ligature of the Vertebral Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The vertebral artery springs from the upper and back part of the subcla\aan, opposite the interval between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli nuiscles. It terminates at the lower border of the pons, uniting with its fellow artery to form the basilar artery. Relations in the Neck.—In the lower part of the neck the artery lies between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli, and enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cerxical vertebra. It is crossed II. p