AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 332 of the deformity is very apt to occur if the hmb be put up in this position, owing to the obliquity of the fracture. Evidence obtained by means of radiography is steadily accumulating to show that the fully-flexed position is the only one that is likely to maintain the fragments in good position. Our experience, gained largely under the X-ray screen, is that the quickest and best way of securing good coaptation is to supinate the forearm fully and then flex the elbow as far as it will go. The point of the elbow will thus be pulled forward, and the lower end of the upper frag- ment pushed backwards. In order to maintain the flexed position, Croft's splint, reaching from the upper third of the arm to the lower third it will be found that this position keeps the fragments in position, and if this be so, the forearm should be bandaged to the upper arm by figure-of-eight turns (see Fig. 154). Before doing this the arm should be dried and powdered so as to protect the skin, and it is well to put a fold of boric lint into the crease at the elbow-joint to absorb the per- spiration and to keep the parts dry. When this bandage has been applied the part should be carefully examined to see that the reduc- tion is maintained and, if possible, a radiogram taken. The arm is then bandaged to the chest wall in the position already described. It is very important to ascertain by means of a radiogram, after the lapse of two or three days, whether the bones remain in good position. If this be the case, the splint may be removed at the end of a week, and of the forearm, should be put on the posterior aspect of the limb, and if necessary this may be strengthened oppo- site the elbow by pieces of block tin or strands of tow im- pregnated with plaster incor- porated in the splint ; this sphnt is better than one of gutta-percha or poroplastic material. The elbow and fore- arm should be supported by a large sling and fastened to the side. tiG. 153.—Fracture of ih^. LuwiiR Hnu or the Humerus. The so-called supra-condyloid variety. In children it is usually pos- sible to dispense with splints altogether. When the fracture has been reduced, the arm is fully flexed so that the hand on the affected side rests upon the opposite shoulder, and the elbow is carried well forward on the chest. In the majority of cases