AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES igo situated in the extremities ; then, of course, it can be dissected out completely. Fusiform aneurysm, however, is comparatively rare in the extremities and there is little or no tendency in it to the deposit of clots upon the wall. In diffuse aneurysm the radical operation should be employed when- ever possible, on account of the risk of the compression exerted by the effused blood upon the collateral circulation producing gangrene of the limb, should the pressure not be relieved by the removal of the clots. CIRSOID ANEURYSM. By the term cirsoid aneurysm, or aneurysm by anastomosis, is meant a condition in which an artery or group of arteries is much enlarged, dilated, and tortuous. This forms a vascular mass consisting of numerous anastomosing branches, which may, in fact, be roughly described as an arterial naevus. The veins and capillaries in the neighbourhood are also enlarged in a similar manner. The affection may occur in almost any situation, but is generally met with about the head and face, especially in the area of the temporal artery and its branches, or upon the hand and lower part of the forearm. There is generally free communication between the arteries and veins ; the skin may become adherent to the tumour and ulceration may ulti- mately occur, and repeated and even fatal haemorrhage ensue. Owing to the free communication with the veins, it may happen that there is considerable interference with the return of blood when the aneurysm is situated in an extremity. TREATMENT.—This is often difficult. Ligature of the main arterial trunk leading to the aneurysm has proved almost uniformly futile. Themethodthat offers the best prospect of success is excision of the tumour. The vessels entering and leaving the aneurysm are cut down upon and tied, and the tumour is then carefully isolated from its blood-supply, and dissected out. This operation is comparatively simple when the mass is small, but even then the number of vessels requiring ligature may be considerable. When the aneurysm is in one of the extremities, the operation is greatly facilitated by using an Esmarch's bandage. In the case of one on the head or face a temporary ligature should be apphed to the external carotid. When the tumour is large, the difficulties are increased enormously, and in some cases removal is impossible. Recourse may then be had to electrolysis (see Vol. I. p. 256), which should be apphed whilst the circulation through the aneurysm is controlled by pressure upon the main artery leading to it ; the electrolysis may be combined with hgature of the main artery. In some cases about the wrist and palm in which the tumour threatened to rupture, it has actually been necessary to perform amputation of the limb.