ACUTE INFLAMMATION 437 be as long as the wound, but they must not be too tliick (jr too broad, and, therefore, it is well to split the bone longitudinally into fragments with a stout knife. These fragments are laid in the wound after the bleeding has been arrested, until a sufficient amount has been introduced to fill out the groove to a reasonable size. The soft parts are next brought together over the fragments by means of a few buried catgut sutures, and the wound is then closed without a drainage tube and the limb put on a sj^lint. If the operation be done aseptically, no infection will take place, and the pieces of bone should gradually become welded together and united with the surrounding tissues. To some extent they may lead to the formation of new bone. Unfortvmately, in a good many cases absorption goes on to such an extent that the bone-grafts become mere hbrous tissue and the limb l)ecomes weak again, but in some instances very satisfactory results have been obtained. It is better to use bone from one of the lower animals than from another patient (for example, from an amputated limb), because of the possibility of transmitting disease thereby. In some cases it is possible to use an autoplastic graft, a compara- tively unimportant bone being sacrificed to replace one whose presence is indispensable. For example, the fibula may be fixed between the two ends of the tibia after destruction of the shaft of the latter. Experience shows that the slender fibula may increase in strength and thickness, and efficiently rejilace the stronger tibia. Of Acute Epiphysitis.—When acute osteo-myelitis occurs near the epiphyseal end of a bone in a young child, the epiphyseal cartilage is apt to be destroyed completely, and no further growth of that end of the bone will occur after recovery. Should the epiphysis aftected be the one from which the main growth of the bone is derived, material shorten- ing of the limb may result. The treatment of all the stages of acute epiphysitis is identical with that ap])ro]iriate to acute osteo-myelitis (see p. 434). Treatment of the Resulting Arrest of Development.—The only point requiring special attention is the deficient growth of the bone afterwards. This condition not only gives rise to general shortening of the limb, but when one of two parallel bones is affected, troublesome deformity may arise. If for example the epiphyseal cartilage of the tibia or the radius be completely destroyed, the unaffected bone {i.e. the fibula or the ulna) continues to grow, and the foot or hand becomes deflected to the side of the damaged bone. When the disease occurs in infancy, complete uselessness of the hand or foot may result. In order to prevent this, it has been proposed to destroy the epiphyseal cartilage of the healthy bone. The objection to this is that in the early stage of the disease it is impossible to be sure that the cartilage of the bone affected is realh- destroyed. Hence the method should not be resorted to in the early stage ; but when two or three years have elapsed