AFFECTIONS OF NERVES 128 condition which may have any bearing upon the affection should receive appropriate treatment. Operative Treatment.—Should these palliative measures fail, the question of operative interference will arise. Palliative measures should be abandoned in favour of operative procedures, if the symptoms indicate that the neuritis is spreading in spite of careful treatment. The operative measures suitable for neuritis are : (i) acupuncture; (2) nerve-stretching; (3) neurotomy ; and (4) neurectomy. Acupuncture.—At one time the plan of puncturing an inflamed nerve with a long needle was much in vogue, especially in cases of sciatica. The patient is not anaesthetised. The position of the nerve is first marked out, partly by anatomical data and partly by the pain experienced on pressure. A long round needle is then thrust rapidly through the skin down into the nerve. The only way of performing this operation success- fully is to use a very sharp needle and to plunge it rapidly through the soft parts, as otherwise the point of the needle glances off the nerve and does not penetrate it. After the first needle has been introduced, it is left in situ so as to fix the nerve, along the course of which some six or eight needles are then introduced at other points. A good guide as to whether the nerve has been punctured or not is the pain experienced by the patient. The pain on puncturing a nerve is sharp and characteristic and is referred to the particular nerve itself, whereas there is no special pain attached to a puncture rapidly performed through the soft parts ; if, therefore, any of the needles fail to elicit this characteristic symptom, they should be removed and reintroduced. The mode in which this procedure acts is difficult to understand, but it undoubtedly gives relief in some cases, and as it is harmless, it might precede the per- formance of such an operation as nerve-stretching in the case of a large nerve like the sciatic. Nepve-stretehing.—Nerve-stretching has been much employed in cases of obstinate sciatica. Its results vary considerably, but in some cases the benefit is most marked. The precise manner in which the effect is produced is by no means clear, but in part the explanation may be that the new fibrous tissue, forming in the nerve in consequence of the inflammation, which exerts injurious pressure upon the nerve fibrils, is torn through, and thus the pressure upon the nervous elements is relieved. Nerve-stretching also produces some alteration in the transmission of the nerve currents, and thus leads to temporary diminution in the trans- mission of sensory impulses and considerable rehef of the pain that is a constant accompaniment of the affection. In the majority of bad cases the immediate effect of properly performed nerve-stretching is very marked ; the pain may disappear entirely, and is almost invariably much improved, while for a time at least the patient may be apparently weU. In some cases this improvement is permanent and a cure results ; in the majority, unfortunately, there is apt to be recurrence, which is