476 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES osteomyelitis with cystic formation. The great majority of cases begin before twenty years of age, and the bone increases in size slowly as com- pared with one that is the seat of a malignant tumour ; fracture of the affected bone is not infrequent. The diagnosis is made by the slow growth, the age of the patient, the X-ray appearances of a cavity in the bone, and by exploration. TREATMENT.-—In the cases in which the cavity does not involve much of the shaft, the cyst should be opened and curetted freely. Severe hsemorrhage may occur as a result of this, for which it may be necessary to use Horsley's wax and pack the cavity firmly. When, however, the haemorrhage is not severe, the periosteum may be sutured after the curetting, and the cavity allowed to fill with blood which, in time, becomes replaced by calcified tissue. In severe cases so much of the bone may be involved, and the walls ot the cyst may be so thin, that even curetting may practically amount to an excision of a portion of the shaft of the bone. If this be the case, the periosteum should be carefully stripped off the cyst throughout its whole extent, and then the whole of the thin wall of the latter removed. The shortening which would otherwise follow must be prevented by the insertion of some form of internal splint to keep the ends of the bone apart, such as a bone-graft (see p. 309) or a sterile rod of ivory, or vul- canite, interposed between the remains of the shaft and the articular end ; the reflected periosteum is sutured around the graft and the wound closed. The latter method, avoiding as it does the transplanting of tissue from one patient to another or the loss of a healthy bone from the same individual, seems the best way of dealing with these cases; a very successful case of the kind has been reported by Mr. Lett.' FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. This is a rare congenital condition in which the bones are imperfectly ossified and so brittle that they give way even during intra-uterine life, the patient sometimes being born with multiple fractures. Some of these cases exhibit signs of congenital syphilis. TREATMENT.—This resolves itself into the protection of the child from injury and the treatment of any constitutional affection. The fractures usually unite, but, owing to their multiplicity, splinting is difficult and vicious union is common. Some cases have survived, although most of them die from inanition ; those that survive are usually stunted. The condition is important from a medico-legal aspect, as prosecutions have been instituted against parents on account of repeated fractures. A similar condition occurs in extreme old age, which is due to simple atrophy of the bone. ' Lancet, Oct. 22nd, 1910.