148 AFFECTIONS OF VEINS of a blood-vessel, generally a vein ; thrombosis is a constant result of phlebitis. Inflammation may affect the lining membrane of the vein, when it is termed endo-phlebiiis ; or all the coats of the vein, when it is known as phlebitis proper ; or the sheath of the vein and the tissues in which it lies, in which case it is called peri-phlebitis. The term phlebitis is, however, usually employed in the widest sense, and includes both endo- and peri-phlebitis. CAUSES.—The condition may follow an injury which causes bruising of the wall of the vein and the formation of a thrombus in its interior ; it may originate in connection with a septic wound ; it may be associated with gout or rheumatism, or with poisons, such as alcohol or lead, cir- culating in the blood ; or it may follow debilitating diseases such as typhoid fever, when it is probably of an infective character. It most frequently attacks veins which are already unhealthy, notably those that are varicose. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The changes which occur in the vein are thickening of its wall, proliferation of its endothehal Hning, swelling of the internal coat, and early formation of white clot, with ultimate blocking of the lumen of the vessel. The clot thus formed may extend upwards to the nearest branch ; or, if a branch only be affected, the clot may reach the main vein itself, and may there project into its lumen. As a result of any sudden movement this projecting portion may become detached and carried on by the blood-stream, and give rise to an embolus ; when the piece so detached is large enough to block the pul- monary artery, immediate death may result. The later history of the primary thrombus depends upon whether or not sepsis is present; in aseptic cases the clot becomes firmly adherent to the internal coat of the vein, and subsequently becomes partly absorbed and partly converted into new tissue. In the process of organisation, new venous spaces are often formed, and extend through the clot from one end to the other ; the result is that the lumen of the vein may either be restored from this channelling of the new tissue, or the vein may be converted into a fibrous cord. Not infrequently earthy salts are deposited in the thrombus in long-standing cases, so that hard adherent calcareous masses are formed in the interior of the vein usually in the neighbourhood of the valves ; these are often spoken of as phleboliths. When the clot is septic, pyaemia is apt to occur (see Vol. I. Chap. IX.). SYMPTOMS.—The disease may run an acute, sub-acute, or chronic course. Acute phlebitis is accompanied by high temperature, diffuse redness of the skin over the vein, and oedema of the tissues in its vicinity ; later on, when the thrombus breaks down, septic emboli or a localised abscess may form and pyeemia may develop. Between the acute and the chronic forms there are all sorts of gradations. In a typical case it is usual to find pain and tenderness and a hard cord in the course of the vein, with redness or dusky discoloration of the skin over it ; the patient