THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES and those accompanied by so mnch deformity that a really good result cannot be obtained otherwise. Operative measures are particularly necessary in fractures about joints—notably the elbow—where the dis- placement interferes with movement, and where satisfactory re-position and retention of the fragments cannot be obtained by simple manipula- tion and the application of splints. When operation is called for, it should be undertaken as soon as possible after the accident ; if it be delayed, the most favourable time will have passed and it will be difficult to rectify the displacement. When the fragments are separated, as in old fractures of the patella, the muscles become shortened, and it is extremely difficult to get the fragments together again unless the muscle be partially divided. At the same time the fragments become so thinned and atrophied that they do not offer a good hold for the Avires. If operation be delayed in oblique fractures with much overlapping or displacement, the muscles, fasciae, and other soft tissues become contracted, and a dense fibrous mass surrounds the fracture so that the ends cannot be separated and cleared, and it becomes very difficult to bring the fragments into position and to exert enough traction to overcome the shortening. And lastly, if operation be delayed in fractures into joints—for example, the elbow—it will be almost im- possible to obtain a good result without chipping away portions of the articular surfaces or even excising the joint. All these difficulties can be avoided if operative interference be carried out soon after the fracture has occurred and before any consolidation has taken place—in fact, as soon as the surgeon sees that he cannot obtain a good result in any other way. While in most cases—as, for example, those in which there is separa- tion of the fragments—there will be no hesitation m operating at once; in others—as in oblique fractures—the surgeon may be tempted to wait. In the latter cases the decision can be greatly facilitated by radiography, and all oblique fractures should be examined under the X-rays within three days of the accident ; this can be done without removing the splints. If the position be bad, operative measures can be undertaken before consolidation has taken place. It is always advisable to take a stereoscopic radiogram if the apparatus be at hand, as thereby the surgeon is enabled to see at once the exact relative position of the fractured ends, and he can therefore judge clearly in what direction it is most advisable to approach the fracture. In these operations strict asepsis of the wound is absolutely essential; without it operation would be unjustifiable. The operative procedure consists in cutting down upon the fracture, clearing away all the blood- clot between and around the ends of the bone, removing any tissues interposed between the fractured ends, and then bringing the latter into apposition. As a rule, it is not sufficient merely to get the broken ends into position, and means must be taken to fix them together until consolidation has occurred by means of metal plates, screws, or