14 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES the thin undermined edges must be divided; they are stretched and thin, and will never develop into healthy tissue. They need not necessarily be cut away, but several incisions should be made through them radiating from the centre of the ulcer well into the healthy skin beyond. As a result of this, the skin between the incisions contracts and a number of tags are left which will readily adhere and form new centres for epithelial growth. As a rule, however, if a presentable scar be desired, it is better to clip away all these tags at their junction with the sound skin. This can be done under cocaine or after freezing. The treatment of tuberculous ulcers of the skin, secondary to tuber- culous abscesses, depends, of course, on the treatment of these abscesses, and will be referred to in speaking of tuberculous sinuses in connection with joints, etc. TUBERCULOUS WARTS. Tuberculous warts—which are also known as lupus anatomicus—are mentioned in Vol. I. p. 172. They occur in post mortem porters, or • those who do much post mortem work. They form irregular papilloma- tous elevations, and fissures are very often found between the bases of the papillae. As a rule they are indolent, the surrounding skin is normal, they are benign and slow in their course, and the glands do not usually enlarge. In some cases of lupus anatomicus, however, the course of events may be much more acute, and there may be enlargement of the glands, disease of subjacent joints, or even phthisis. TREATMENT.^—This is practically the same as that of lupus ; when the disease is not too extensive, the best plan is completely to excise the group of warts. TUBERCULOUS LUPUS. Lupus may be met with in any part of the body, but it is most frequent about the cheek, the nose, and the back of the hands. The disease is characterised by the presence of nodules which, under the microscope, are found to consist of a collection of tubercles. These nodules tend to spread at the margin of the patch, while healing often occurs at its centre. In some cases the epidermis remains unbroken, and the nodules present a yellowish translucent apple-jelly-like appearance, or the epidermis is slightly thickened and scaly, the nodules are dull, and there is a slight congestion of the skin around. In this form of the affection the tubercles tend to dwindle after a time, leaving a soft violet-coloured cicatrix; in other cases there is ulceration. The ulceration tends to heal, and when it does so, the scar often causes considerable contraction and deformity; in the cheek, for example, it pulls on the lower eyelid, causing eversion or ectropion. This form of lupus is especially destructive ; when it occurs on the nose it spreads from the skin to the cartilage and destroys it, then it extends to the mucous mem-