SCURVY-RICKETS 471 teaspoonful of cream may be given twice daily in the milk. Feed every 3 hours by day, and once during the night. Between 6 and 9 months.—Two parts of cows' milk to one part of barley water. Then add gradually more milk and less barley water until at 9 months the child is taking plain milk. On no account give any infants' food, condensed milk, bread, biscuits, or tops and bottoms until the child is 9 months old, except by doctor's orders. If the cows' milk does not seem to agree, consult a doctor, not the chemist. Never give babies at any age sweets, pastry, fruits, cheese, salt meat, salt or fried fish, tea, wine, beer, or spirits. Between 9 and 12 months.—Besides i pint or li pints of cows' milk, the child may be given, not oftener than twice in the day, any plain milk pudding, or porridge made with milk, or bread and milk made as follows : Put a slice of stale bread without crust to soak in a basin of cold water for 2 hours ; then pour off the water, beat up the bread, and pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling milk ; sweeten with loaf sugar. This should be freshly made for each meal. Between 12 and 18 months.—Add to the above, potato and gravy, or half an egg once in a day. After 15 months, feed every 4 hours by day and not at all during the night. After 18 months.—Finely minced or shredded mutton and fresh fish may be added to the above, but cows' milk should still be the principal food. Feed only at meal times, never between meals, ' Just to keep the baby quiet.' Babies often cry not because they are hungry, but because they are thirsty. A little pure water or barley water, flavoured with orange-juice, will satisfy them. The bottle should have a nipple, but no tube. Scald it out both before and after use, and cleanse with a brush. Prepare at a time only enough milk for one meal. Never give what is left over in the bottle for the next meal. Taste the milk before feeding, and be sure it is not sour or smoked. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. I. —Sleeping.—The child should sleep in a cot or basket alone. Many babies are overlaid every year from sleeping with their parents. If babies kick oii the bedclothes, put them in long flannel nightgowns, fastened below the feet and at the wrists and throat. They must not lie between window and door, or fireplace and door. Keep the window open all night in hot weather. Keep a small fire burning all night in cold weather. II. —Clothing.—Should be loose round the chest and close round the belly. Do not let them go about with nothing on below the armpits, but petticoats. A flannel binder round the belly and warm drawers should always be worn. III. —Washing.—Wash them all over with soap and warm water night and morning. Dirty children are always delicate. They will not take cold if carefully dried, especially about the head and ears, after the bath. It is a good plan to put them to bed betiveen the blankets for half an hour after the morning bath. IV. —Fresh Air and Sunlight are nearly as important as food to children. Take them out every da-y in fine weather. Curative.—General.—Wlien the disease has become estabhshed, the effect of proper treatment is generally very marked. All artificial foods should be stopped and the child put upon a diet of fresh scalded cows' milk, properly diluted according to the age of the patient.