FRACTURES OF LOWER THIRD OF FOREARM 357 During this time the forearm should be carried in a sling. At the expiration of eighteen days the splints should be left off entirely and the patient should be encouraged to practise active and passive movements of the fingers and wrist. The arm should be carried in a sling for another fortnight during the day, but at night the splint should be re-applied. Considerable oedema and pain sometimes remain for some time after these fractures, but early persistent massage will overcome it, and is indeed the most powerful preventive measure. Various special splints have been introduced for the treatment of this fracture, but none will be found better than the one we have recom- mended. Carr's splint (see Fig. I73) is very popular; it consists of an anterior portion terminating in an obliquely placed liar which is grasped by the hand, and a narrow posterior one. which is applied along the dorsal surface of the radius from its upper end to just beyond the wrist joint. The outer or radial border of the anterior splint is thicker than the inner, and is hollowed out below for the reception of the lower fragment. The oblique bar at the lower end is grasped by the hand, which is thus brought into a position of adduction. The old ' pistol sj^lint' has nothing whatever to recommend it. Mal-union. —Non-union is i)racticallynever met with in this fracture, but there may be mal-union, either because the fracture has never been reduced or because reduction has been imperfect ; the hand may be much disabled thereby, but not by any means necessarily so. Should there be much functional disability the deformity should be corrected by operation, with a good prospect that the functions of the hand will be thereby restored. A long incision is made over the outer side of the lower end of the radius ; the line of union is then chiselled through with the same obliquity as the fractme originally had, and the fragment detached and got into position. Mechanical methods of fixation are not necessarily required, as the surfaces are broad and union occurs readily. If, however, there is any tendency to recurrence of the deformity a light plate (see p. 307) should be applied where it will not interfere with the action of any of the tendons. After the wound has been stitched np. splints are applied as described above, and should be kept on longer than in the case of a simple fracture. Equal care must be taken to carry out active and passive movements of the fingers and wrist. Passive motion of the iingers should be begun from the very first, and of the wrist after about ten days. Fig. 173.—Carr's Splint tor Colles's Fracture. The splint illustrated is for the left limb. The oblique bar at the end of the anterior splint A is grasped in the hand. The radial border of the splint is considerably thicker than the ulnar. There is a depression in the radial side of the splint just behind the oblique bar into which lower fragment is pressed by the posterior splint B.