2o8 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS be taken to avoid puncture of the innominate vein which lies to the outer side and somewhat in front of the vessel, and aneurysm needles of varying curves and length must be at hand. Wound of the pleura is avoided by keeping close to the vessel. The materials used for ligature of the innominate artery are floss silk or the ordinary Chinese twist, or kangaroo tendon which has been kept in a I in looo solution of perchloride of mercury in glycerine. Two ligatures should be applied side by side, and tightened up and tied in the Fig. 8o.—Ligature of the Innominate Artery through a Median Incision. The soft parts are pulled to the right after the interval between the sterno-thyroids has been opened up. The process of deep cervical fascia (/) covering in the vessels is seen pulled over to the left side in front of the trachea (t). This brings into view the innominate artery bifurcating into the common carotid (c) and the subclavian (s). manner described on p. 177, care being taken not to divide the coats of the vessel in doing so. Another incision for ligature of the innominate artery is a A -shaped cut, one limb being parallel with the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, while the other runs outwards along the clavicle. The sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid and the attachments of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are divided. This method is undoubtedly superior to the preceding one in that it gives better exposure. The objection to it is that it creates a deep cavity in which blood may collect. Experience shows, however, that this is not so important now that wounds are kept clean, and it is probable that the practical advantage of having a clearly exposed field of operation in these most difficult cases will outweigh the rather theoretical one of faulty drainage. In this operation, as in the other, it is an advantage to remove the bone. The right sterno-clavicular articulation may be removed if desired, and the room will then be ample (see Fig. 81). s