FRACTURES OF THE UPPER END OF THE FEMUR 373 one is wound around the lower extremity and the splint so as to fasten the two firmly together, and is similarly pinned to the spHnt. The best way to prevent recurrence of the eversion is to make the lower end of the splint slide in a slot formed by two rectangular iron brackets screwed side by side on to a flat wooden cross-piece that lies on the mattress : in this it is free to slide horizontally, but is unable to rotate (see Fig. 179). When an attempt is to be made to obtain true bonv union, this apparatus should be kept on for ten or twelve weeks ; the usual period of six weeks is too short for intra-capsular cases. During tliis prolonged treatment it is necessary to see that bed-sores do not occur, that the patient is kept absolutely quiet, and that there is no ulceration of tlie skin from the extension apparatus. At the end of ten weeks the hip- joint should be fixed in a Tliomas's hip splint (see Figs. 180-2), and the patient may then be allowed to get about upon crutches which should be used for at least two months l)efore he pats the foot to the ground. After prolonged treat- ment of this kind the union w ill gradually become firm enough to allow the patient to support nearly his full weight irpon the injured limb. Plaster Spica.—In men the plaster of Paris spica bandage is useful: it mav be used either , " r J1 • Fig. 182.—Thomas's Hip Splint applied. lor recent cases or for those m side view. which some union has occurred. (Photo supplied by Alien & Hanbury's, Ltd.) It is put on as follows: Tlie patient stands on the sound limb u])on a lilock high enough to raise the affected limb well off the fioor. After the perineum and the groins IvAxe been dusted with boric powder, a spica of boric lint or ordinary* flannel is applied to tlie affected limb from the upper th.ird of the leg to above the crest of the ilium. Over this the plaster of Paris bandages are applied ^ and they may be strengthened by smearing a quantity of the jilaster over them with the hand. ' For the method of preparing and applyins; these bandages see p. 273,