DISARTICULATION AT THE HIP-JOINT 553 means of a layer of dry gauze and collodion, or by rubber strapping (see p. 501), and it is also very important to cover the inner aspect of the dressing with mackintosh in order to prevent it from being soiled. The best way to do this is to take a piece of mackintosh long enough to surround the thigh and broad enough to reach from the perineum down to the end of the stump. The edge of the mackintosh is then fixed to the skin of the perineum by means of a broad strip of adhesive plaster, and the same thing is done above and behind, and thus the mackintosh is firmly fixed. A trough of Gooch's splint should be applied, and it and the bandages fastened on by a spica ; the lower end of the splint is raised and secured to a firm pillow. The dressing must be changed on the following day on account of the free oozing that will occur. Subsequent changes of dressings will be called for according to the amount of discharge ; it is better to err on the side of changing the dressings too frequently than to do it too seldom. As a rule it wiU be found necessary to dress the stump every day for the first three or four days. The drainage tube may usually be left out in about a week. THE ANTERIOR RACKET OPERATION. This type of operation is the one generally called for in cases of malignant tumour of the femur. The flaps have to be short, and there- fore the vessels and nerves are divided higher up than in the previous operation. A vertical incision nearly six inches long beginning an inch above Poupart's ligament is first made over the common femoral vessels, which are tied and divided between ligatures. This incision is then prolonged obliquely around the thigh, crossing its inner aspect a full hand's breadth below the perineum and its outer aspect just below the base of the great trochanter (see Fig 252, B). The skin and fascia alone are first divided and dissected up for about two inches. The muscles on the inner side are then cut across as close to the pelvis as possible when the tumour is high up. The ligatured and divided ends of the common femoral artery and vein must be pushed well up out of the way of injury when this is being done. This exposes the inner aspect of the capsule and neck of the femur. The former structure is opened by a free incision through it and the coty- loid ligament parallel with the long axis of the neck, and the head of the bone is then rapidly disarticulated and pulled forcibly forward. This gives access to the muscles in the buttock and the outer flap, which are divided obliquely in the line of the incision by a few strokes of the knife. The only vessels requiring ligature will be branches of the gluteal and sciatic, and the amount of blood lost is quite small. When it is very important to reduce bleeding to a minimum—as for example when there