366 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES to disengage the head of the bone from the acetabulum ; the upper end of the femur is pulled outwards by a band passed horizontally around the upper part of the thigh, and extension is also made in the long axis of the limb. Then, by means of the finger in the rectum, it is possible that the fragments may be manipulated into position. If this should be the case, the Umb must be put up with extension apphed in two directions, partly in the long axis of the limb and partly at right angles to the upper part of the thigh, so as to keep the head of the bone as far away from the bottom of the acetabulum as possible (see Fig. 176), Passive movement should be begun after the end of the first week, with the view of minimising the resulting stiffness of the hip-joint. It is, however, very rare that an entirely useful joint is obtained after an injury of this kind. Should manipulation fail to restore the parts to position, it wOl be better to expose the seat of fracture and to restore the normal condition of affairs as far as possible than to leave the case alone, in which case very severe deformity would result. FRACTURES OF THE SACRUM. On account of its great strength and its comparatively sheltered position, the sacrum generally escapes injury, but fracture may occur from direct violence, such as kicks or blows, or a run-over accident when the patient is lying upon the face. As a rule the fracture takes place just above the sacro-coccygeal joint. This fracture is generally compound, communicating either with the skin or the rectum. In the latter case the injury is grave, as septic infection is almost certain, and may lead to pelvic ceUuhtis of a severe type. Damage to the sacral nerves may also occur, and may lead to paralysis of the sphincter ani and incontinence of fasces. The lower fragment, with the coccyx attached to it, is generally displaced forwards, and, even when there is no displacement immediately after the accident, the lower end tends to be tUted forward subsequently by the muscles attached to it. The fracture may unite in this bad position, and wUl then exert pressure upon the lower end of the rectum, interfering with the passage of its contents, and often causing great pain and discomfort to the patient on sitting or walking—a condition generally spoken of as coccydynia. TREATMENT.—^The chief point in the treatment is to reduce the fragments, so that there shall be no tilting forwards of the lower end, and also to arrange that the bowels shall be confined for some days. The rectum should first be emptied by an enema. The finger is then intro- duced into the rectvma, the lower fragment of the sacrum is grasped between it and the thumb externaUy, and manipulated into position. Twenty minims of laudanum in half an' ounce of starch are then intro- duced into the rectum, so as to prevent any further action of the bowels