REMOVAL OF THE ENTIRE UPPER EXTREMITY 527 cutting, pliers just short of the articulation, and removed so as to expose the axillary vessels and the brachial plexus, which are covered by the subclavius muscle. The artery and vein are identified as they lie over the first rib, and both vessels are tied separately in two places and divided between the ligatures. It is well to ligature and divide the artery before the vein, and to raise the extremity after division of the artery, so as to allow the blood to flow back through the vein and thus preserve what would otherwise he lost. The vein, moreover, will then cease to be dis- tended with blood and will therefore be more easily manipulated, and not so likely to get torn. The vein, however, may overlap the artery to such an extent that it will be necessary to tie it first. The divided ends of both vessels are sepa- rated upwards and downwards by the handle of the knife, and then the brachial plexus sliould also be divided and the lower ends stripped down- wards. Before com- pleting this stage of the operation, it is well to insert the handle of the knife or the finger beneath the deep fascia of the neck and to sepa- rate the tissues to a moderate extent, lifting them up and searching for, and, if possible, ligaturing the supra-scapular and the posterior scapular arteries. The former is usually readily found and can be ligatured at once ; the latter may also be identified, but it is not worth while spending much time in the search. Raising the Anterior Flap.—The next step is to mark out the incisions for the removal of the extremity ; these form an elliptical incision in- cluding the shoulder and part of the scapula. An assistant abducts the arm to a right angle and pulls the trunk well over, so that the shoulder pro- jects free of the table, and then the front portion of the incision is marked out. The knife should be carried from the centre of the incision over the clavicle downwards with an outward curve over the coracoid })rocess to the junction of the anterior fold of the axilla with the arm. It is then carried transversely across the axilla to its posterior fold and thence to