ANEURYSM OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY 201 is situated at the upper part of the vessel, it is usuaUy advisable to apply the ligature to the vessel below the point at which the omo-hyoid crosses it. In order to do this, the patient is placed in the same position as for ligature above the omo-hyoid, and an incision about three inches in length is made in the hne of the artery, commencing over the sterno-clavicular articulation and extending upwards to the level of the cricoid cartilage. In this incision the anterior jugular vein may be ex- posed ; it should be seized with forceps in two places, divided between them, and secured by catgut ligatures. Sometimes the dilated in- ferior thyroid veins may get in the way ; if so, they must be divided between ligatures. The inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle is defined, the deep cervical fascia incised parallel to it, and the muscle pulled outwards with retractors. The lower part of the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles will then come into view, and should be drawn inwards towards the middle line, the cervical fascia being incised sufficiently for the purpose. The omo - hyoid muscle is also seen and drawn upwards. This leaves a triangular space bounded by the omo-hyoid muscle above and exter- nally, the sterno - hyoid muscle internally, and the sterno-mastoid muscle below and externally (see Fig. 77) ; in it the carotid sheath is exposed. Should the lateral lobe of the thyroid o\'erlap the sheath, it must be freed and drawn inwards with a retractor. The artery is cleared and ligatured exactly as in ligature of the vessel above the omo-hyoid. Should the situation of the aneurysm necessitate more room, it can be obtained by detaching the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid by means of a transverse incision running outwards from the lower end of the vertical one. The muscle Fig. 77.—Ligature of the Right Common Carotid BELOW THE Omo-hyoid. (a) Sterno-mastoid; (6) omo-hyoid ; (c) common carotid artery ; {d) internal jugular vein ; (<r) incision in sheath ; (/) sterno-hyoid muscle ; (g) anterior jugular vein ; (A) stcrno-thyroid muscle.