TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES so that a week or ten days will elapse before it can be applied. During this time the measures just described should be carried out. The details of the splint are given on p. 374. If symptoms of pneumonia arise, it is weU to surround the bed with a curtain or tent, and to place a steam-kettle beside it, so that the patient shall breathe moist air. A tent can be improvised by means of screens roofed in by a sheet. Diffusible stimulants, such as ammonia combined with expectorants, should be given,^ and brandy may be administered in doses of half an ounce every three hours or oftener as necessity arises. If the lung trouble increases, a large jacket poultice of linseed meal renewed every three or foar hours should be substituted for the cotton wool, and when there is nmch cyanosis, oxygen inhalations (see Vol. I. p. 177) should be employed. When, however, the affection reaches this advanced stage the chances of recovery are very slight. It is very important to get aU these old people up as soon as possible, as they may be attacked by this complication at any time ; in speaking of fractures of the neck of the femur we shall refer to forms of a])paratus that may be employed with this object. Delirium Tremens.—This is a common complication of fractures in heavy drinkers. The attack often comes on within a few hours of the receipt of the injury, and at first manifests itself by restlessness, loquacity and disinclination to remain in bed. This is foUowed hy the well-known hallucinations of vision and muscular tremors. It is noticeable that the patient constantlv tries to move the fractured limb, and apparently these attempts do not cause pain. A serious risk of this constant dis- turbance of the fracture is fatty embolism (see p. 291). Non-union is also prone to occur, and, of course, a simple fracture may readily be made compound. As a rule the affection subsides spontaneously in three or four days. In elderly people, however, who are the subjects of habitual intemperance and in whom the kidneys are diseased, the condition gets steadily worse until the patient falls into a comatose, typhoid state, and dies. An essential point in the treatment is to immobilise the limb as soon as possible, and for this purpose there is nothing so efficacious as a Croft's splint, applied as soon as the fracture is seen or as soon as the first symptoms of delirium tremens set in. It is usually necessary to administer an antesthetic to keep the parts at rest until the plaster has set. The limb can then be fastened to the bed, and the patient restrained by an attendant. The medical treatment consists essentially in supporting the strength by nutritious food, and in trying to induce sleep. The patient should be isolated and kei)t in a dark room ; a strong attendant should be present ' The following prescription may be used with advantage: E—Ammon. carbonatis, gr. v. ; Spirit, ajtheris, 3ss ; Vini ipecac, n\x. ; Tinct. scills, n\xv. ; Aq. inenth. pip., ad §j. Misce. Ft. mist. Every four hours.