THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES 271 The second form of Croft's splint consists of a somewhat trough- shaped posterior splint and a narrow anterior piece ; it requires less nicety in application although it has the disadvantage that, composed as it is of an anterior and posterior portion, it is not so suitable for those recent fractures in which it is necessary to have more than the anterior part of the limb easily accessible. It is perhaps most useful for fractures in which a certain amount of consohdation has taken place ; it is also useful for fixing the limb in various cases of joint disease. It is made of house-flannel as before, and each anterior and posterior portion consists of two layers, both of which are satu- rated with plaster. The shape of the two portions of the splint is shown in Fig. 118 ; no accurate measurements are needed for either. The posterior layer should be wide enough to em- brace two-thirds of the circumference of the limb, the anterior a little less than one-third. The two layers of the posterior portion are impregnated with plaster of Paris, mixed as above (see y. 267), held in position along the back of the limb, and secured with a bandage of ordinary muslin or book-muslin. In a fracture undergoing consoli- dation or in joint disease it is well to put a woollen stocking on the hmb to keep the plaster from adhering to the skin. In the case of a recent fracture a layer of boric hnt suffices. The two layers of the anterior por- tion are next impregnated with plaster, applied over the front of the limb out- side the bandage securing the posterior portion, fastened on by a second band- age and allowed to dry. This plan is simpler than that of holding both portions in position at the same time, and bandaging them on together (see Fig. 119), but the latter method should be adopted in recent fractures in children, as in them bandaging of the two portions of the splint together involves less disturbance of the limb. The splint is left undisturbed as long as may be desirable ; when it is desired to remove it, the muslin bandage is cut up on each side, and the anterior portion of the splint is thus made to form a sort of hd to the trough formed by the posterior portion (see Fig. 120). The superfluous bandage is removed and the sjilint re-fastened with an ordinary bandage. Fig. 118.—Modified Croft's Splint. Shape of the anterior and posterior portions. The left-hand one is the narrower anterior piece. The relative width of the two por- tions can be varied at will to suit the needs of any particular case.