AMPUTATIONS 530 growth does not involve the muscles over the back of the bone, the incision may begin over the acromion process and run downwards and backwards along the spine of the scapula to about a couple of inches beyond the vertebral border. From the centre of this incision a second is made running vertically down to the inferior angle (see Fig. 242, A). When, however, the tumour involves the muscles upon the back of the bone this incision wiU have to be modified. In many cases a portion of the skin over the tumour will have to be included in an oval incision and removed. In other cases an I-shaped incision gives the best result. This incision, commencing at the acromion process, rims along the upper border of the scapula to its vertebral angle ; from the centre of this a vertical incision is carried down to the inferior angle, and at the lower end of this a second transverse incision is made. This gives two skin flaps which are turned outwards and inwards (see Fig. 242, B). The first incision described, however, should always be chosen if it can be safely employed, as the attachments of the trapezius and the deltoid can afterwards be stitched together and the movements of the arm may be thus more satisfactorily preserved. The incision is deepened, and the attachments of the trapezius to the upper border of the spine of the scapula and of the deltoid to its lower edge are divided. The flaps with the muscles are turned aside. An assistant now pulls the arm forcibly forwards and downwards and thus puts the rhomboidei on the stretch, so that they can be divided. The finger is then passed beneath the posterior border of the bone, and the serratus magnus is pulled forward and cut through. If the acromion is to be left behind, it should now be snipped across with bone forceps, or if it is to be taken away, it should be disarticulated from the clavicle. The teres major should next be divided, and after that the rotator muscles of the humerus are cut across close to the scapula if they are free of the disease, or close to the humerus if they are involved in it. The scapula is now free except for the attachment of the levator anguli scapulae, the omo-hyoid, and the supra- scapular vessels and nerves. When they are divided, disarticulation at the shoulder-joint is performed and there is nothing to prevent the removal of the bone, as the structures attached to the coracoid process have already been divided. The arteries requiring ligature are the posterior and supra-scapiilar ; these can often be clamped before division. The posterior scapular is seen immediately after the division of the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae, whilst the supra-scapular is not divided until just before the bone is removed, when it can be easily seen above the supra-scapular notch. The sub-scapular has been already secured through the preliminary anterior incision. After the bleeding has been arrested, the trapezius and the deltoid muscles which have been detached from the spine of the scapula (when the condition of the parts allows this to be done) are sewn together by