ANEURYSM OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY 199 supra-scapular usually lies behind the clavicle, well out of the way; should they come into the field of operation, they can be drawn aside with retractors, and should not be divided unless it is absolutely necessary, as they are important agents in carrying on the collateral circulation. Perhaps the most important point in the operation is not to mistake the lotvest cord of the brachial plexus for the vessel, as a ligature placed upon it would entail the most serious and painful consequences. This cord lies in close connection with the artery and is a good guide to it ; in an oedematous and blood-infiltrated wound there is some danger of mistaking the one for the other, more particularly as the artery may com- municate a spurious pulsation to the nerve. As long as the possibility of confounding the two is recognised, it should be easy to avoid such a mis- take, as the firm rounded nerve cord is quite different to the feel of the flat, ribbon-like artery ; besides which, the pulsation should be felt in the vessel, and digital pressure applied to it should at once stop the pulse in the artery below. The only other point that need be mentioned is the necessity for keeping the needle close to the vessel as the ligature is passed, and it is always best, where possible, to pass the needle round the artery from below upwards and from before backwards ; the lowest cord of the plexus can be kept out of the way of the needle by a finger introduced as a guide into the wound. Wowid of the pleura, which is usually described as a complication of the operation, need hardly be mentioned ; it should never occur where ordinary care is employed, and even should it happen no serious harm results. TJie Collateral Circulation after ^Ligature of the Third Part of the Sub- clavian Artery.—The branches of the supra-scapular and posterior-scapular anastomose with those of the acromio-thoracic and subscapular. The superior intercostal, the aortic intercostal, and intercostal branches of the internal mammary anastomose with the thoracic and scapular branches of the axillary. ANEURYSM OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. This affection is not at all common. It mav be met with in any portion of the vessel, but is most frequent at the upper extremity close to its bifurcation, or at the lower end immediately above the origin of the carotid trunk. Its symptoms and course are similar to those of aneurysm elsewhere. The diagnosis is usually simple, but the affection requires to be distinguished from a tortuous condition of the artery, which is some- times met with close to the bifurcation, and sometimes it may be con- founded with glands, tumours, or abscesses which lie over the vessel and receive pulsation from it. TREATMENT.—It is generally advisable to employ operative interference, the exact operation depending upon the situation of the aneurysm. Digital compression of the artery has been tried with success