56 AFFECTIONS OF BURS^ e.g., erysipelas of the skin or inflammation of a neighbouring joint. In some cases it is due to a direct wound. Acute bursitis may be due to gout, the bursa over the olecranon being most often affected ; a rheumatic form is also described. TREATMENT.—When Suppuration has occurred.—The bursa must be laid open freely, drainage tubes inserted at the most dependent points, and an antiseptic dressing applied. It is often necessary for efficient drainage in a large bursa like the pre-patellar, to make two, or even more, counter-openings at its lowest points. In the pre-patellar bursa this is best done by a small median incision, through which the finger explores the cavity and directs a probe or pair of sinus forceps, which are made to project beneath the skin at the most dependent points, and are cut down upon for counter-openings. The neighbouring joint should be fixed with splints until the inflammation has subsided. When suppuration has not occurred, the usual treatment for inflam- mation (see Vol I. Chap. I.) should be employed ; this will be rest and cold in the early stages, hot fomentations, leeches, etc., later on. If there be any rheumatic tendency, 20 grains of salicin or salicylate of soda should be given three times daily. The majority of cases of acute bursitis, however, go on to suppuration, and time is saved and a better result is obtained by early incision and drainage, even though no pus has formed, provided that the wound can be kept aseptic. The fluid evacuated under these conditions is thick synovia with flakes of lymph in it. A fine drainage tube (No. 5) is inserted between the edges of the wound; this can generally be dispensed with after the third day, and the wound is then allowed to close. There is no need for counter-openings ; drainage through a median vertical incision will suffice. If the pre-patellar bursa be affected, the patient may be allowed to walk about with the knee fixed in a suitable casing. CHRONIC BURSITIS. Chronic inflammation of a bursa may follow upon the acute form, or it may be chronic from the first ; it is usually the result of a slight but frequently repeated contusion or injury. Its most common seat is the pre-patellar bursa, where it usually results from prolonged kneeling. Sometimes there is considerable pain and some redness of the skin in the early stage of the disease—a subacute inflammation in fact—but there is not the acute oedema and the violent sj^mptoms characteristic of an acute suppurative inflammation. The pain soon subsides and leaves the bursa dilated and its walls thickened ; the subacute inflammation, however, is very liable to recur on the slightest provocation. In other cases, adventitious bursse may develop over parts subjected to pressure, and these may inflame subsequently ; common examples of this are the bursse which develop over the side of the metatarsal bone of the great toe in hallux valgus, and which are known as bunions.