2 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES has escaped, suitable measures must be taken to prevent any further friction, so that the separated epithelium may remain in contact with the raw surface beneath and protect it against external sources of irrita- tion. If possible, rest should be enforced. When the epithelial layer has been detached, some simple antiseptic application, such as dilute boric ointment (one-fourth of the B.P ointment), should be employed. / Fig. I.—Celluloid Shields. The shield is inserted in (he centre of a sheet of adhesive plaster, by which it is applied to the limb. The holes in each shield are to permit of evaporation. When the patient is compelled to get about, some form of hollow pad designed to keep the pressure off the blister should also be provided. When it is merely necessary to prevent the surface of the blister from being irritated by the clothes, a very useful method in parts other than the feet is to protect the raw area by means of a perforated convex celluloid shield (see Fig. i) fastened over the part by strapping. These shields are of various shapes and sizes ; the dressing to the blister Hes in the shield and is kept in place by it. CALLOSITIES. These are indurated, prominent yellowish portions of skin, shading off at their edges, and consisting essentially of thickening of the horny layer of the epidermis. They are due to repeated friction and may be preceded by blisters. Relief of the pressure will lead to disappearance of the callosity, but while it lasts the callosity is often extremely painful, and a bursa may form beneath it and become inflamed or suppurate. TREATMENT.—When the callosity is causing pain, it is well to shave off as much of the thickened epidermis as possible, after softening it by prolonged soaking in water as hot as can be borne, and then to apply salicylic collodion (loo grains of salicylic acid to the ounce of flexile collodion) and to repeat this application night and morning. This should be combined with the use of a hollow pad to prevent pressure, which may consist of thick felt plaster. The pad should overlap the thickened area for three-quarters of an inch in all directions, and a hole corresponding in size to the callosity should be cut in its centre. This treatment will usually lead to the disappearance of the affection.