222 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS The artery may be reached by an incision on the back of the wrist ex- tending from the upper end of the first interosseous space parallel to and somewhat to the radial or outer side of the extensor secundi inter- nodii poUicis tendon. The artery lies deep down on the carpal ligaments, dipping down between the bases of the first and second metacarpal bones beneath the tendinous arch joining the two heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (see Fig. 91). Ligature of the Ulnar Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The lower two-thirds of this artery may be indicated by a line drawn from the back of the internal condyle of the humerus to the radial side of the pisiform bone. The upper third is indicated by a slightly curved line, with its convexity to the ulnar side of the forearm, extending from the centre of the ante-cubital fossa to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the first line. The artery is deeply placed in the upper part of the forearm and has in front of it the prona- tor radii teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the palmaris longus muscles. It is crossed by the median nerve, the deep head of the pronator radii teres intervening between the nerve and artery. In the middle third the flexor carpi ulnaris overlaps it; but in the lower third it is covered by the skin and subcutaneous tissue only. Behind, it lies successively upon the brachi- alis anticus, the flexor profun- dus digitorum, and the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. On the inner side is the flexor carpi ulnaris, and in its lower two-thirds the ulnar nerve. On the outer side is the flexor sublimis digitorum. The artery is accompanied by two venae comites, one on each side. Ligature in the Middle Third of the Forearm.—An incision is made in the line of the vessel commencing at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm, and running downwards for about three inches. After the fascia has been divided, the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle is identified, and the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor sublimis digitorum is opened up. The flexor carpi ulnaris is pulled inwards and the flexor subhmis outwards, when the ulnar nerve will be seen lying upon the flexor profundus digitorum to the ulnar side of the artery (see Fig. 92). Ligature in the Lower Third of the Forearm.—An incision should be Fig. 92.—Ligature of the Left Ulnar in the Middle Third. {FS) Flexor sublimis digitorum. (FU) Flexor carpi ulnaris. (A) Ulnar artery. (N) Ulnar nerve. {V) Venae comites.