THE TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES 287 time the necrosed i)ortiuns will iieconie loose and should be removed. The time required for this detachment varies from about six weeks in the case of the forearm to about six months in the case of the femur. Non-union is liable to follow necrosis of this kind and, therefore, the interrapted splint just described should be dispensed with as soon as the wound has healed, and the limb put up in a Croft's splint, daily massage, without disturbance of the ends of the bones, being employed to keep up the nutrition of the ends of the bones. THE TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES IN WHICH THE DAMAGE IS EXTREME. Although tlie methods just described apply to the majority of com- pound fractures met with in practice, cases, nevertheless, will arise in which the question of amputation has to be decided first of all. When a limb has been partially or completely torn off, there will be no hesitation in deciding that the stump must be trimmed or the partially torn-off limb must be amputated. Similarly, when, in addition to extensive com- minution of the bones, there is laceration of the main vessels, nerves, and muscles, amputation will be the better practice ; and immediate amputa- tion may be required in badly lacerated wounds, such as machinery acci- dents, in which the bone is much broken and the soft parts are badly lacerated and soiled with greasy dirt. Again, in old persons or in those much enfeebled by constitutional disease, the most satisfactory plan of bringing cases of bad compound fracture to a successful termination, especially when the bone is comminuted, is a primary amputation. But e.xcept for these cases, an attempt should always be made to save the limb whenever the surgeon feels that, by disinfection of the wound and the establishment of drainage, he will probably be able to obviate the occurrence of septic infection. The mere rupture of the main vessels or nerves of the limb in addition to a compound fracture does not neces- sarily call for primary amputation. When the vessels are divided, the case should be watched to see whether gangrene occurs, and amputation can be performed within the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours if it be found inevitable. When the nerves are ruptured they should be sutured in the manner recommended for injuries of nerves (see p. 117) immediately after the wound has been disinfected. Union is often delayed in compound fractures, and it is not uncommon to find that the fragments still move upon one another after si.x or eight weeks. Indeed it may almost be said that this is the rule rather than the exception, and that something like three or four months are necessary to obtain satisfactory union in the majority of compound fractures. It is somewhat difificult to understand why this should be, but probably it is due to the absence of the external callus, which plays a considerable part in the repair of simple fractures.