396 CHAPTER XX. FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. Fracture of the patella is of common occurrence and great importance. The line of fracture may be either transverse, longitudinal, or starred ; the most frequent form is the transverse fracture, which usually results from violent muscular action, as when an attempt is made to recover the balance. The knee is bent and the quadriceps extensor is thrown into such violent contraction that the patella is snapped across the condyles of the femur. The fracture is generally transverse, but in some cases it may be oblique from below upwards and backwards, and it usually occurs nearer the lower than the upper end of the bone ; sometimes only a small fragment of bone is left attached to the hgamentum patellae. Fractures produced by direct blows upon the patella are very often starred, the bone being broken up into several pieces. Sometimes, however, they are longitudinal, the patella being divided into two unequal lateral portions. In neither of these cases is the separation of the fragments so marked as in the transverse fracture. TRANSVERSE FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. There are four points of importance in connection with this fracture. In the first place, the separation of the fragments depends upon the tearing of the periosteum and the capsule at the sides of the bone ; it is generally sufficient to allow the finger to be introduced between the fragments when the knee is flexed. Unless measures be taken to prevent it, the upper fragment becomes more drawn up as time goes on, until there may be a gap of several inches between the fragments. The second and, perhaps, most important point of all is that the periosteum is not torn across on a level with the line of fracture ; it usually gives way below the fracture, and a piece of periosteum projects for half an inch or more beyond the lower edge of the upper fragment, and curls round and lies over the fractured surface (see Fig. 195). Hence this layer of periosteum is interposed between the two fragments when they