51 PRIMARY AND SECONDARY TUMOURS progress of the disease, even, although the whole of the affected area ni.ay apparently be removed. Other glands soon enlarge and recurrence often takes place in the neighbourhood of the primary growth. Hence, except at an early stage, or where its situation is such that the growth causes much suffering from pressure upon important organs, excision cannot be recommended ; even at an early stage it is of doubtful value. Various drugs are said to exercise a certain degree of restraining in- ■ fluence on the growth of these lymphadenomata, but the results obtained from their administration are unsatisfactory. The one usually ordered is arsenic, and it is most commonly given in the form of Fowler's solution beginning with three minims in water three times a day after meals and increasing it by one minim every day or two, so long as it can be borne without causing intestinal irritation, a condition which manifests itself by nausea, vomiting, colic, and diarrhoea. When this occurs, the arsenic should be left off for a few days, and when these symptoms have passed off, the drug may again be given in smaller doses, which should be cautiously increased. Some have advocated the injection of Fowler's solution into the tumour, quantities varying from two to six minims being introduced once a day. There is no convincing proof of the advantage of using the drug in this way. Abroad, phosphide of zinc, in doses of a twentieth of a grain in pill three times a day, is often ordered. On the whole, arsenic is probably the most efficacious drug, but permanent benefit can hardly be hoped lor from it. Recently the X-rays have been used with some success, and injections with Coley's fluid (see Vol. I. p. 249) have been recommended. LYMPHO-SARCOMA.—This is fully described ni Vol. I. p. 264- SECONDARY TUMOURS. The secondary tumours of lymphatic glands are either sarcomata or carcinomata. Treatment.—In all cases of cancerous disease the glandular tumour should be removed, if possible, and great care should be taken, as in the case of tuberculosis, not only to remove the visibly enlarged glands, but also the whole glandular area, which can only be done by making a com- plete dissection embracing all the glands and fat and removing them in one mass. This is most important, and is most easily carried out in the axilla and the neck, where glandular infection after disease of the breast or mouth is very likely to occur. Further, in cases of degenerating malignant glands, the greatest care must be taken not to rupture them, as otherwise tlie whole wound may become a diffuse malignant sore. Should the glands give way in the course of the operation and the semi- fluid cancerous material escape—as not infrequently happens in the case of epitheliomatous glands---the entire wound must be carefully swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid so as to destroy all the epithelial cells.