AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 424 pain ascertained ; if there be any sign of undue pressure upon the seat of fracture the splint should be undone at once. The Croft's splint should be kept on for at least six weeks, but after three or four weeks' confinement to bed the patient may be allowed to get about on crutches, stiU wearing the plaster of Paris casing, the limb being supported by means of a long sling passing around the neck and beneath the sole. The splint may be left off any time between six and eight weeks, if firm union has occurred. If the fracture be low down, it is sometimes difficult to be sure whether the union is firm, as, when attempts are made to move the fragments in the antero-posterior direc- tion, the movement of the ankle-joint may stimulate move- ment at the fracture; the best direction in which to test the movement is the lateral one. The matter is of great im- portance, because, if the union be imperfect when the patient bears weight upon the limb, the result will be to increase the mobility. When there is much com- minution, a Maclntyre's spUnt is very comfortable, but it has the great disadvantage that the leg cannot be satisfactorily radiographed in it, and hence it is impossible to tell how the fragments are lying. An ex- cellent arrangement is Hessing's splint (see p. 374) by which ex- tension can be kept up and the patient allowed to walk about almost from the first, without the foot touching the ground. Operation.—In these fractures there is often considerable difficulty in keeping the fragments in proper position and in preventing over-riding. If it be ascertained by means of a radiogram or otherwise that there is recurrence of the over-riding after it has been once corrected, it is best to expose and fasten the fragments together. The fracture in the tibia is superficial, no important structures are divided in exposing it, and the Fig. 210.—Bone-plates applied to an Oblique Fracture of the Tibia. Two plates have been used, one long and one shorter. If possible the plates should not be applied over the subcutaneous surface as they will then be liable to become exposed to injury or irritation subsequently.