170 AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES When the affection involves the larger vessels, it may be possible to obliterate the aneurysm by means of one form of Matas's opera- tion (see p. 182) and thus maintain the lumen of both artery and vein unimpaired. Even should thrombosis occur in the artery subsequently, time may be gained which will help the collateral circulation. Both the artery and vein must be temporarily controlled on both sides of the aneurysm. Even should it be absolutely essential to tie such import- ant vessels as the femoral artery and vein simultaneously, gangrene will not occur if the wound be kept aseptic, but marked and prolonged oedema of the leg may result, and therefore ligature should be avoided if possible. When the vessels involved are the first part of the subclavian, or the lower end of the common carotid artery with their accompanying veins, it is advisable to leave matters alone. The chances of rupture are not great, and it will usually suffice to protect the parts from violence and to treat any symptoms of cardiac irregularity by suitable medicinal means. TRUE ANEURYSM. CAUSES.—In true aneurysm the wall of the sac is in the first instance formed by one or more of the arterial coats. When the aneurysm is large, the remains of the coats of the artery become prac- tically unrecognisable in the wall of the sac, which is then formed solely of condensed cellular tissue. Before a true aneurysm can be produced, disease or injury must weaken the wall of the vessel at the spot where the dilatation is to occur; this generally takes the form of chronic endarteritis or atheroma. When an atheromatous patch bursts into an artery, the blood finds its way into the little ulcer thus formed and brings about gradual expansion of the arterial wall. In other cases, the atheromatous process extends to the middle coat and dilatation ensues without any rupture of the internal coat; as a rule dilatation does not occur until the middle coat becomes weak, A similar weaken- ing of the middle coat may result from contusions or strains of the coats of the artery which rupture fibres of the middle coat; the result is cellular infiltration of the coat in the vicinity followed by the formation of cicatricial tissue and dUatation of the weakened part. The detachment of infected portions of the valves or clot in ulcerative endocarditis is liable to be followed by a softening of the arterial wall at the place where the embolus is arrested, and to lead to an aneurysm. Multiple aneurysms in young people are generally due to this cause. In whichever way the damage be done, the weakened wall gradually dilates, until ultimately there is a cavity communicating with the vessel by an orifice of variable size ; this is known as a sacculated aneurysm. The lining membrane of this cavity loses its smooth healthy character, and the blood-stream in it is more sluggish than in the vessel itself; the result