TUBERCULOSIS 457 should be employed. It is often tempting to amputate the finger or the toe, but this is not usually necessary. If the abscess wall be removed, and the medulla well scraped out, the wound will usually heal without trouble. In abscesses connected with deep-seated bones, such as the spine or pelvis, the treatment must be conducted on the lines laid down for chronic abscess (see Vol. I. p. 233). In the majority of the patients that come under the notice of the surgeon in hospitals and in large towns, opening the abscess is the usual method. The abscess is opened, the wall thoroughly scraped, the cavity washed out so as to get rid of all the flakes of cheesy material, and then a 10 per cent, emulsion of iodoform and glycerine (see Vol. I. p. 234) injected and the wound closed. In some cases the deposit may be scraped out and rapid healing obtained, but as a rule this is only likely in cases of tuberculous peiiostitis. When there is a tuberculous sequestrum or a soft deposit in the bone, the abscess is apt to re-form and the final result is doubtful. In these cases, however, recent experience has shown that, if the patient can be put under the most perfect hygienic conditions in pure country air, incision of the abscess is not absolutely necessary ; simple aspiration may suffice.^ This matter is dealt \vith more fully in connection with affections of the spine. Of Cases in which there are Septic Sinvises.—Here there is little tendency to healing, and suppuration may go on indefinitely unless the condition can be improved by operation. Excision of Sinuses.—The sinuses may be excised, the area of bone from which they originated being freely exposed and the focus of disease removed, if possible. Every attempt should be made to render the wound aseptic. The skin should be thoroughly disinfected, and the granulations at the orifice of the sinuses should be scraped away. A small piece of sponge saturated with imdiluted carbolic acid should then be introduced into the sinus, care being taken to prevent the acid running over the skin by placing sponges around the orifice. It is well to leave the piece of sponge in the orifice of the sinus, and to insinuate past it a probe which is held in position against the bone. A large elliptical incision is then made, embracing the orifice of the sinus, and the parts are divided in the direction indicated by the probe, the sinus being included in the dissection. When the bone is reached, the sinus should not be cut away, but the healthy bone on each side of it is exposed and chiselled through, so that the diseased portion can be removed entire ; then the diseased area should be gouged away, and the surface which is left treated as described above for a tuberculous deposit in the bone (see p. 455). It is best to stuff the wound with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform and allow it to heal from the bottom, or at any rate to wait ' See Calve and Gauvain : ' The treatment of tuberculous abscesses of bony origin by conservative methods.'—Lancet, March 5th, 1910.