NEURITIS 127 acute pain, the treatment is similar to that for other forms of acute inflammation (see Vol. I. Chap. I.). In chronic neuritis, which either fohows an acute attack or has been chronic from the iirst, the treatment consists partly in the employ- ment of constiiiitional remedies, according to the diathesis of the patient— a point already dwelt upon on p. 125—and partly in the employment of local measures which principally take the form of counter-irritation, followed by massage, friction, and galvanism, as the case improves. The best form of counter-irritation is a blister or the actual cautery (Corrigan's) applied over the course of the nerve. If a blister be employed, it should be long and narrow, and should be applied with its long axis corresponding to that of the nerve. It should be repeated once a week if necessary, and it is well to prolong the effect by the application of savin or resin oint- ment to the blistered surface (see Vol. I. p. 20). Galvanism is also of con- siderable value in the more chronic cases. It is best to employ an ascending current, that is to say, the negative pole of the battery is applied to the spine whilst the positive electrode is placed over the nerve ; no interrup- tions should be made in the circuit. The current should be very weak at first and should be increased very gradually ; if it aggravate the pain, it should be discontinued. When benefit follows its employment, it may be applied daily for half an hour at a time, its strength being gradually increased. Injections of alcohol into the substance of the nerve or into the tissues in its immediate vicinity are a good deal employed at the present time. These are most often used for trigeminal neuralgia and will be described more fully in connection with that affection (see Vol. III.). After the pain has disappeared, massage should be employed, and this may also with advantage be carried out in the direction of the affected nerve trunk. A good way of carrying out the treatment is to order the patient to take frequent baths as hot as he can bear, and immediately afterwards to have the limb vigorously massaged and wrapped up in flannel or cotton wool, after which he rests in bed or upon the sofa for some time. Anodyne liniments are useful when the pain is severe, and they should always be resorted to in preference to morphine or cocaine as long as they influence the pain. The best of these are hnimentum belladonnae, linimentum terebinth, aceticum, or the following liniment :—■ R Menthol . . . . 3j. Liniment, camph. CO. '( -- z Liniment. belladonnEe) ' ' ^ ' They should be used after a hot bath at night, as the pain is apt to increase when the patient goes to bed. The constitutional treatment must be attended to in all cases. Quinine, strychnine, iron and arsenic are of great value, and at the same time the patient must be under the best hygienic conditions ; an}^ constitutional