AMPUTATIONS 500 upon the bone just above the proposed line of section and resting the fully-flexed terminal inter-phalangeal joint against the blade of the saw ; the blade of the saw is pressed against this fixed point and cannot slip upwards. The bone is sawn through by light and rapid sweeps, the assistant taking care to hold the limb absolutely horizontal. This is a somewhat difficult task as he is apt, on the one hand, to push the limb up, in which case the saw becomes locked, while, on the other, if reproved for doing this, he is apt to depress it unduly, so that, after the saw has divided the greater part of the bone, the remainder snaps off. To assist in maintaining the horizontal position of the limb, the operator should grasp the bone firmly in his left hand just above the point of division. If any sharp spicules of bone are left they should be removed by cutting pliers applied with the flat side against the sawn surface. When the bone is subcutaneous and a sharp edge would other- wise be left beneath the skin flap, it is an excellent plan to saw off the projecting portion obliquely (see Fig. 227). SECURING THE VESSELS. — After the limb has been removed, the flaps are laid down in posi- tion to see if they are of sufficient length; if this inspection be satisfactory, the surgeon proceeds to ligature the main vessels which are readily recognised both by their anatomical situation and by their appearance; the large veins should be picked up and ligatured a,- well as the arteries. The best material for ligature is moderately stout catgut. After the main vessels have been tied, a few others may be identi- fied and clamped before the tourniquet is removed by squeezing the muscles, and thus causing a drop of blood to exude from the cut ends of the vessels. Then an assistant should be told off to compress the main artery of the limb whilst the tourniquet is removed, and it is a good plan to fold one of the flaps firmly over a large hot sponge so as to stop the oozing from it, whilst the bleeding points are being picked up in the other flap. If several largish vessels bleed, the assistant can compress the main vessel until they have been secured ; by proceeding in this way very little blood need be lost. While the vessels are being picked up, the limb should be raised into the vertical position. It is weU to tie aU the clamped vessels with fine catgut ; no doubt many of them would Fig. 227,—Methods ok Rounding oh- the End of the Bone in Amputations. A shows the direction of the saw-cut and the appearance of the bone-end after the sharp tibial crest has been sawn o£f. B shows the result after treating the linea aspera of the femur in a similar manner.