482 AMPUTATIONS a large proportion of the cases, either by employing conservative methods, or, at the worst, by means of partial amputations which were out of the question at a time when the risk of sepsis was a constant menace. The Increasing Favour of Irregular Flaps.—A third and very noticeable fact is that nowadays amputations are rarely carried out on the hard- and-fast lines formerly laid down for the surgeon's guidance. The use of irregular flaps and irregular amputations is coming more and more into vogue. In fact, the particular method of amputation adopted in any given case now depends, not upon the surgeon's predilection for any one form of incision or kind of flap, but upon the actual conditions of the part. Thus, in amputating for injury, the main idea present in the surgeon's mind is how to insure the patient a stump that shall be as useful as possible, and therefore he will often shape his flaps in an irregular manner, so as to obtain a longer or more useful stump than would be got by means of any orthodox amputation. To describe the various irregular amputations that are constantly being done would be quite impossible, but it is safe to say that many of the set amputations found in text- books are only performed upon the cadaver. The introduction of anti- septics has greatly assisted in this direction. Through their agency the chances of inflammation in the stump have been greatly diminished, the risk of sloughing of partially-injured flaps has been reduced to a minimum, and the danger of secondary haemorrhage has practically disappeared. Thanks to asepsis, we are now enabled to fashion flaps, even from tissues that have been bruised by the injury, provided that their vitality has not been seriously impaired. Predominance of the Skin-flap.—Another noticeable feature in present- day methods is the increasingly frequent use of skin-flaps, and the diminution in the amount of muscle employed to cover the bone. This is accounted for by the fact that inflammation is absent from aseptic wounds, and that, therefore, the sloughing of the skin-flaps, which led to their rejection in former times, is not likely to occur. THE ESSENTIALS OF A GOOD AMPUTATION. There are three essentials in aU cases of amputation. In the first place, the bone must be covered satisfactorily; in the second, the diseased or injured parts must be removed completely ; and in the third place, the stump left must be as useful as possible, rounded and supple, but firm enough to bear considerable pressure without pain. Position of the Cicatrix.—When the end of the stump is required to support pressure, the cicatrix must not be in such a position as will expose it to pressure from the divided end of the bone ; it is also most important that the flap shall not be adherent to the bone, and that the cicatrix shall be painless. These requirements can generally be arranged for with a little care. In amputating in the lower extremity, the incision