ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY probe (see Plate III.). The best way to do this is to detach the sheath first on one side, whilst the corresponding edge of the incision in the sheath is steadied in forceps and then to treat the sheath on its other side in a similar manner nntil the needle is able to slip right round the vessel and its point emerges again through the opening. These manipulations must be carried out most gently and carefully, for it is easy to puncture the sheath and to wound the vein if force be used; and, moreover, carelessness may result in inclusion of the vagus in the ligature. The general rule is to pass the aneurysm needle from the outer side of the artery, so as to avoid puncturing the vein. The needle should be passed unthreaded ; after it has been passed round the arterv it is threaded with stout catgut or silk, and withdrawn. Before the ligatiu^e is tied, care should be taken to see that nothing but the artery is included in it and that no injury has been done to the vein. Should the vein be pi:nctured, it should be cleared for a short distance by enlarging the opening in its sheath, and the puncture may be picked up in a pair of forceps and a lateral ligature applied to the wall of the vein. Should the rent be too large to allow this to be done or should the ligature fail to hold properly, there is no objection to tjdng the internal jugular above and below the opening and dividing it between the ligatures. A single ligature is sufficient to occlude the common carotid, and the method of tying it has already been referred to (see p. 175). DifficiiUics and Dangers.—This operation is usually quite simple ; the chief trouble is bleeding from the branches of the superior or middle thyroid veins, which are dilated by the pressure of the aneurysm. The veins should be clamped between two pairs of pressure forceps before they are divided. Another difficulty is that the internal jugular may be so distended as a result of the interference with the venous return by the pressure of the aneurysm, that it overlaps the artery almost completely ; this complication is best met by opening the sheath well towards the inner side. Wound of the vein and inclusion of nerves in the ligature are avoided by care in clearing the artery. When the thyroid gland is enlarged it should be i^iulled inwards. The Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Common Carotid.—The anastomosis of the branches of the internal carotids and vertebrals in the circle of Willis: the branches of the two external carotids and of the verte- brals across the middle line of the head and neck : the inferior thyroid with the superior thyroid : the deep cervical and superficial cervical with the occipital. Ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian Artery.— Surgiud Anatomy.—This is the most superficial portion of the arter\-, and it extends from the outer border of the anterior scalene muscle to the outer border of the first rib. Superficially the artery is covered by the skin, platysma and fascia, and is crossed by the external jugular vein, which o 2