75 TUBERCULOSIS—SYPHILIS condition, which progresses in spite of treatment, affecting whole groups of muscles, and sometimes ultimately the entire muscular system, so that the patient finally dies from exliaustion or from repeated bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia. TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculosis of muscles is usually secondary to tuberculosis in the vicinity : for example, tuberculous ulcers on the tongue may lead to tuberculous disease in its muscles ; tuberculous abscesses in the neck often perforate the sterno-mastoid and set up tuberculosis there. In psoas abscess, which is a tuberculous abscess extending down the sheath or in the substance of the psoas muscle, the psoas may be more or less completely destroyed by the tuberculous process. The treatment- of tuberculosis of muscles is the same as that of local tuberculosis in other tissues ; namely, excision if possible, or. if not, scraping and general treatment (see Vol. 1. p. 231). SYPHILIS. Syphilis of muscle may be met with in both the secondary and tertiary stages. In secondary syphilis, generalised muscular pains are not un- common, as, for example, syphilitic lumbago, or syphilitic inflammation of the occipito-frontalis, giving rise to severe headache. The pain is often nocturnal, is increased on pressure, and is intermittent. These condi- tions yield readily to the treatment appropriate for secondary syphiHs (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). Tertiary lesions consist essentially of gummata in the muscles which may be followed by sclerosis. The muscles of the tongue and the masseters are those most often affected. Gummata are also met with in the intermuscular connective tissues or the fascial sheaths, e.g. of the muscles of the leg, or the sterno-mastoid near its origin. The treatment is similar to that of gummata in other situations (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). If much sclerosis ensues, it must be dealt with on the lines laid down for the treatment of the similar condition resulting from chronic myositis (see p. 73). In congenital syphilis a painful mass is often found in the sterno- mastoid muscle during the first few months of life. Sometimes these are simple ha.'matomata occurring during birth, but sometimes, undoubtedly, they are tertiary gummatous lesions, and yield readily to mercurial in- unction, which is best done over the sterno-mastoid itself. At the same time the general treatment of syphilis must be employed (see Vol. I. Chap. XL).