AFFECTIONS OF VEINS 146 causing any material disturbance in the healing of the wound. The latter should be stitched up, except immediately around the forceps, and at this spot a stitch is passed through the edges of the wound, but is left untied. The whole wound, including the handles of the forceps, is then enclosed in an antiseptic dressing, and at the end of from 24 to 36 hours, according to the size of the vein, the dressing is removed and the forceps taken off. The removal of the forceps must be effected most carefully; otherwise the vein may be torn open again. The catch of the forceps should be undone without any lateral movement, the blades then gently separated and withdrawn from the wound. The stitch previously passed and left loose should then be tied, and there will not be any further trouble. When a large vein has only been punctured, or when a branch has been torn off at its junction with the main vessel, it is often a question as to what is the best thing to do. In the case of one of the large veins of the neck, such as the internal jugular, the simplest plan is to tie the vein above and below the puncture and divide the vessel between the ligatures ; this causes no embarrassment to the circulation. When, however, the vein is one—such as the femoral, the axillary high vip, or the renal vein—which it is not desirable to occlude owing to the great interference with the circulation which would result, some other procedure must be adopted. The favourite method is to pinch up the opening in the vein with a pair of forceps, and then to apply a ligature to the pinched-up part—in other words, a lateral ligature is put on. This may act very well if the operation be completed and the ligature be applied immediately before the closure of the wound ; but if it be applied early in the operation it is very apt to slip or be pulled off during the subsequent manipulations, when, of course, the bleeding will recur and the opening in the vein will probably be larger than before. In the case of the largest veins it is a very good plan to sew up the opening in the vein with a fine round intestinal needle threaded with the finest catgut. The circulation through the vein must be arrested by pressure above and below the point of puncture while the rent in its wall is being closed. The puncture made by the needle is closed as the stitch is tightened, and this form of vein suture is not followed by thrombosis in the large veins and the circulation is not obstructed. This method is especially useful in cases of injury to the renal vein during operations on the kidney. Haemorrhage from veins in bones, as a rule, stops on pressure, but if it be persistent, the use of Horsley's aseptic wax,i will readily arrest it. A small piece of the wax is pinched off and kneaded in the hand until it is sufficiently soft; it is then firmly pressed into the hole from which the bleeding is taking place, and the wound is closed. 1 Beeswax 7 parts, almond oil i part, and salicylic acid i part. It should be kept in a vessel of i in 20 carbolic acid solution.