AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 438 and it is evident that no growth is taking place, it may be well to destroy the corresponding epiphysis of the other bone. An alternative procedure is to allow the bone to grow and the deformity to take its course, and then to excise portions of the growing bone, so as to bring the foot or hand straight again. The choice between these procedures will be decided mainly by the age of the patient when first attacked by the disease ; in other words it will depend upon the length of time that must elapse between the time of the attack and that at which growth ceases, and, therefore, upon the degree of deformity likely to ensue. If, for example, several years must elapse, it is no good delaying operation until growth is complete. By that time the chances of getting a useful limb by taking out portions of the unaffected bone will be comparatively slight because the joint surfaces, the tendons, the muscles, and the other structures will have so altered and accommodated themselves to their new positions that they cannot be righted readily. Hence this method should be employed long before the bone has attained its full growth, and should be repeated if necessary. When the disease occurs in young children, the question of amputation may have to be considered ; it must depend upon the prospects of obtaining a useful limb, which, in its turn, will depend upon the amount of destruction of the epiphyseal cartilage, and the share that the latter' plays in the growth of the particular bone. Of Acute Suppurative Osteitis accompanied by Joint Sup- puration.—This is a grave condition which often ends fatally ; it is a combination of two serious affections—osteo-myelitis and acute sup- purative arthritis. Amputation.—In the majority of these cases the first thing to be considered is the advisability of amputation. If the patient be seen before he has passed into a hopeless septicsemic stage, amputation immediately above the affected joint is the best treatment. There is no need to amputate at any great distance beyond the joint aft'ected unless the osteo-myelitis has spread into the bone above. Apart from the septic dangers, amputation is often the best treatment, because, even if the limb were saved, it would be stiff, undeveloped, and useless afterwards. When the joint is infected, it is generally in asso- ciation with acute epiphysitis, and, therefore, the patient recovers with a disorganised joint and an undeveloped limb if he survives the disease; the two conditions combined will ultimately render the limb useless, especially if the patient be young when the disease occurs. When the symptoms are not severe, it may suffice to make free incisions into the joint in addition to opening up the medulla as described above. This arthrotomy should expose every recess, and drainage tubes should be employed, and, if necessary, continuous irrigation or a water bath (see Vol. I. p. 32). Amputation must be performed, however, without loss of time if the symptoms do not improve rapidly under this treatment.