AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 436 may be separated from the bone from end to end, and if this be the case the whole shaft dies. This condition does not, however, necessarily demand amputation, for excellent results have been obtained by removing the dead diaphysis. For example, in the tibia, this can be done through an incision from one end of the bone to the other, and little more is required than to lift out the dead fragment. If the periosteum be still adherent to the bone anywhere, it should not be peeled off, but a thin layer of the surface of the bone should be removed with a chisel and left adhering to the periosteum in order to give a better chance of securing the formation of new bone. Even when the periosteum is separated by the inflammation, however, the deeper osteogenetic layer is often separated along with it and new bone will be formed. Should the diaphysis be still adherent to the epiphysis, a piece of the adherent diaphysis should be left, in the hope that a portion of the epip/hyseal cartilage may remain undestroyed. After the dead shaft has been removed, the greater part of the vTOund should be stitched up ; the edges of the periosteal tube should be approximated by sutures, and drainage tubes inserted at various points. Sometimes there may be almost complete reproduction of the shaft, especially if the precaution of chipping away a layer of the surface of the bone under any adherent periosteum be attended to. In some cases, however, this does not happen, either because the osteogenetic layer has been destroyed by the inflammation or has not been peeled off along with the periosteum, and then in the case of a child it becomes a question whether anything short of amputation is likely to be of use, since the epiphyseal cartilage is destroyed in these cases and no further growth will take place. The answer must depend upon the circumstances of the case and upon the particular bone affected. Bone-grafting.—Of the various plans designed to obtain a firm limb after loss of the whole or the greater part of an important bone, bone- grafting has yielded the best results. It can only succeed, however, in an aseptic wound and, therefore, before it is attempted the wound must have been healed soundly for some time. The following are the steps of the operation. A free incision is made over the deficient bone, the remains of the thickened periosteum are incised, and a bed is made for the new bone. It is better not to use a tourniquet, because it gives rise to prolonged after-bleeding, which is apt to separate the bone-grafts from the tissues ; the oozing should be stopped by pressure, the wound being carefully covered up while the grafts are prepared for insertion. The animal selected—preferably a young dog—is killed and rapidly skinned by an assistant and placed on an aseptic surface. With a fresh sterile knife and forceps, the muscles are rapidly peeled off a bone such as the humerus down to the periosteum, and a portion is removed with cutting pliers. The length of the individual grafts is not of much importance ; they can