ANEURYSM 167 In the second, the wound in the wall of the artery may heal and leave a cicatrix. Dilatation of this cicatrix then occurs, with secondary con- densation of the tissues around, and thus again a sac is formed, the wall of which is never composed of any portion of the original coat of the vessel. This mode of formation of a false aneurysm, however, is rare. A false aneurysm may also result from subcutaneous rupture of an artery, provided that the rupture be small. Usually, however, the rupture is of considerable size, and blood is poured out into the tissues rapidly and in large amount ; indeed, the bleeding may be so free that the patient dies directly from haemorrhage into the cellular tissue, or, at a later date, from gangrene as the result of the pressure of the effused blood upon the collateral circulation. This condition has received the name of diffuse aneurysmal haematoma. False aneurysm most frequently occurs when the wound in the artery is very small, and when the injured vessel is in the neighbourhood of structures that offer considerable resistance to the outflow of blood ; it generally follows small punctured wounds of an artery. This false aneurysm has all the ordinary clinical features of the true variety, with the important difference that the walls of the artery are healthy up to the aperture of communication with the aneurysm. Its further history is practically the same as that of true aneurysm. It gradually increases in size, fresh tissue becomes inflamed and condensed around it, bones and other structures become absorbed as the result of the pressure and inflam- mation it causes, until finally the aneurysm reaches the skin or some internal cavity, when its wall gives way and fatal haemorrhage results. Formerly false aneurysm was a common sequela of venesection, and it usually occurred in connection with the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. The lancet was apt to go too deep in dividing the vein, and the artery was punctured ; the immediate rush of blood was arrested by the pressure of the pad, but when the wound had healed and the pad was left off, blood continued to escape through the incision in the artery, and led to the formation of a false aneurysm. TREATMENT.—This will depend very largely upon the situation of the aneurysm. When it is in an extremity or an accessible part, the usual treatment is to control the circulation either by digital pressure or by a tourniquet—if there be room above the aneurysm—to cut down and expose the sac, lay it open freelv, turn out the clots, search for the opening in the vessel, clear the artery above and below the sac, and tie it in both places. Any branch coming off between these ligatures must also be tied, as otherwise the collateral circulation will allow blood to escape into the remains of the sac. It is well, also, to dissect out as much of the sac as possible. This operation for false aneurysm has also been practised in situations where the vessel cannot be controlled on the proximal side of the sac. In such a case, after the sac has been exposed, an opening is made into