315 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE to time and will probably require renewal in about a week, when passive movements of the shoulder should be carried out. The shoulder loops may be left off in a fortnight and the sling in about three weeks. The massage should be continued throughout. Sayre's Method.—^The method most commonly employed in fracture of the clavicle is that known as Sayre's, or some modification of it. The arm and chest should be shaved, and the hair in the axilla cut short and powdered with boric acid. A strip of adhesive plaster, three inches broad for an adult, and two inches for children, is looped around the centre of the arm, with the non-adhesive side next the skin, and the ends of the loop pinned to prevent them slipping. If the strap- ping be merely wound round the arm, con- triction of the limb will occur when it is pulled on ; the loop must be wide enough to allow three fingers to be inserted between the strapping and the skin. The arm is pulled back as far as possible by traction on the strip of plaster (see Fig. 141), which is then carried horizontally across the back, round beneath the opposite axiUa and across the front of the chest, so as to encircle the thorax. It is finally pinned to itself just beyond the loop around the arm. The strapping thus applied acts as a fulcrum which enables the shoulder and the outer fragment of the clavicle to be carried backwards when the elbow is pushed forwards. An assistant then flexes the elbow, carrying it forwards and upwards until the fingers touch the opposite shoulder and the forearm lies across the front of the chest (see Fig. 142). A second strip of strapping is now carried over the sound shoulder obliquely downwards across the back to the point of the elbow, where an oblong slit is made in it for Fig. 141.—Sayre's Apparatus FOR Fractured Clavicle. Applying the arm loop. The arm is pulled forcibly backwards by traction upon the strapping, whicli is afterwards fastened as shown in the following hgure.