AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 420 delay, get the fractured surfaces into accurate apposition and fasten the fragments by means of bone-plates (see p. 307) or tacks. The limb may be put up in wire-netting splints (see p. 265) and early passive move- ment should be resorted to. If for any reason the surgeon should decide not to operate on a fracture of this type, the displacement of the foot may sometimes be satisfactorily overcome by the use of such spUnts as Dupuytren's (see Fig. 208) or Syme's (see Fig. 209). Neither of these should be used, however, in preference to operation, but only as a substitute for it. The method of applying the splints is given in the description of them. TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURE.—A com- pound Pott's fracture is a very serious condition, as it is a compound frac- ture communicating with a joint. Fortunately the wound generally results from the end of the tibia being driven through the skin, so that there is no primary infection of the joint; any dirt or foreign matter present is generally in contact with the end of the bone and does not often find its way into the joint, so long as the surgeon takes cares not to replace the protruding bone until thorough disinfection has been carried out. Cases of compound fracture of this kind, seen before the materials for proper disinfection are at hand, should be put on a splint without any attempt to reduce the fracture until the necessary arrangements can be made. Great care should be taken to prevent premature reduction. The further treatment is that already described for compound fracture (see p. 283) ; the end of the bone is most carefully disinfected, the whole of the malleolus being protruded and the skin wound enlarged if necessary ; the skin is also disinfected and the joint is washed out. Advantage should be taken of the free exposure of the parts to fasten any considerable portion of the internal malleolus that may have become detached in position by tin-tacks or a bone-plate (see p. 307). A drainage tube is inserted at the back of the joint, the fracture reduced, and the leg and foot put up in sterilised lateral wire splints (see Fig. 113), incorporated with the dressing and keeping the foot at right angles to the leg, and fully inverted. The advantages of these wire splints have been pointed out on p. 265. When the wound has healed, treatment similar to that of a case of simple fracture—viz. a Croft's splint, massage, and passive movement—may be reverted to. TREATMENT OF MAL-UNION.—Cases are sometimes met with in which reduction has been imperfect or has not been attempted, and the result is the condition commonly called' traumatic valgus'; in this painful and crippling condition the patient limps considerably, and often has agonising pain on attempting to walk. It may be necessary to have recourse to surgical intervention to render walking possible. Two pro- cedures suggest themselves for this purpose, one being to divide both bones of the leg and then to invert the foot forcibly, whilst the other consists in reproducing the original injury and then bringing the parts into proper