175 ANEURYSM {e) Extirpation of the sac, xvith ligature of the vessel above and below. (2) Endo-aneurysmorrhaphy or obliteration of the orifice of communi- cation between the artery and the sac by suture from within the sac. This operation is usually called Matas's operation. (3) Compression of the arterial trunk, either digital or instrumental, which may be applied either on the proximal or the distal side of the aneurysm. (4) Galvano-puncture b}' means of needles introduced into the sac and connected with the poles of a constant current battery. (5) Introduction of foreign bodies into the sac. Ligature of the Artery.—In applying a ligature to an artery for the cure of aneurysm, various points must be carefully attended to if success is to be obtained. The essential points are, firstly, the determination of the exact situation at which the ligature should be applied ; secondly, the method 01 applying it ; and, thirdly, the material of which the ligature should be composed. Special reference must also be made to the risks of secondary haemorrhage and gangrene. After discussing these we shall proceed to describe the various operations for ligature in the order given above ; we shall then describe the other methods of treatment. The Point at which the Ligature should be applied.—Apart from the operation of opening the sac, turning out the clots and tying the artery above and below, the older method was to apply the ligature im- mediately above the sac—' Anel's operation.' As a result of this, secondary hsemorrhage frequently occurred, and suppuration in the sac was not at all uncommon. These accidents were at that time attributed partly to a diseased condition of the vessel at the seat of liga- ture, and partly to the direct irritation caused by the ligature upon the diseased vessel. Therefore, the modification of ligaturing the artery at a distance from the sac, known as the ' Hunterian operation,' was sub- stituted. The object of this was partly to Ugature the vessel where it was healthy, partly to avoid irritation in the neighbourhood of the sac. and partly to favour the deposition of firm laminated clot by allowing a certain amount of the circulation to be carried on through the aneurysm by the agency of the collateral branches. In other cases, when it was found impossible either to open the sac and tie the vessel on each side of the opening into it, or to apply a ligature on the proximal side, the artery has been tied on the distal side only—•' Wardrop's operation.' The choice between the operation of proximal and distal ligature is practically deter- mined entirely by the situation of the aneurysm and the possibihty of applj'ing the ligature on the proximal side. When proximal ligature is feasible it should be chosen in preference to the distal one. The Force with which the Ligature should be tied.—-This is a matter of some moment in the larger arteries, particularly the innominate, but in those of the size of the femoral downwards it does not seem to matter