i8 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES of the treatment. After a fairly abundant experience of my own cases treated by this method, and also of those of other investigators treated for long periods, I am in a position to state that I have seen no case in which a really curative action was manifest, that is, in which the disappearance of numerous nodules has been observed. ' The second method may be carried out by means of either the original or the new tuberculin, and of these I have no hesitation in giving pre- ference to the original tuberculin. In view of the generally expressed view that the treatment with old tuberculin is not free from risk, it is best to carry out a careful examination of the important viscera, in order to be certain that there is no gross lesion in any of these organs, which might be a contra-indication to the treatment. ' I usually begin with one four-thousandth of a cubic centimeter of the fluid, and find that this does not usually cause any constitutional reaction. The dose is doubled on the second occasion if no reaction takes place and is doubled again on subsequent occasions until a fairly sharp reaction is caused. The same dose is then maintained until it is borne without any severe reaction, when it is again increased, but as one gets to larger amounts, i.e. over one five-hundredth of a cubic centimeter, it is wiser not to double the dose, but to increase it more gradually, being guided by the reaction as to the suddenness of the increase. In no case have I given more than one-fifth of a cubic centimeter of the original fluid. ' I do not claim that every case of lupus is suitable for this method, but I regard it as an extremely t:seful one for those cases in which excision is out of the question, and the Finsen light is not applicable or not to be obtained.' SCROFULOUS GUMMATA. The fourth form of tuberculosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissue is that spoken of by the French as ' gommes scrofuleuses ' or scrofulous s,ummata. Here nodules form in the skin or subcutaneous tissue, which are at first hard, but which in time soften and break down, and lead to the formation of abscesses. In this way multiple chronic abscesses are found often widely distributed over the body, which burst and give rise to tuberculous ulcerations of the skin with sinuses extending into the deeper tissues. This condition occurs chiefly in infants, in whom the nodules are subcutaneous; in adults it is rarer, and the nodules are in the skin. On examination, the nodules are found to be tuberculous tumours. TREATMENT.—The nodules should be excised without cutting into them ; if fresh ones form they should be excised also. These nodules are very chronic in their course as a rule, and incision and scraping are not nearly so rapid or certain in their results as excision. The immuni- sation method described [vide supra) is worth a trial in these cases, should