THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES 261 ■ ^ • ' MAINTENANCE OF REDUCTION. Two points must be borne in mind in maintaining the fragments in position after reduction. In tlie first place, the limb should be placed in a position that will minimise the action of all the muscles that can pull upon the fragment and reproduce the displacement ; in the second place, some form of apparatus must be employed to fix the bones immovably in proper position. Position of tlie Limb.—The limb should be placed in such a position that the muscles which pull upon the broken fragments are relaxed as much as possible. This is better than attempting to control muscular action by the application of powerful splints and tight bandages. In determining the position which a limb should be made to assume when a bone is broken near one extremity, it should be remembered that it is more difficult to act upon the short fragment than upon the long one and the shorter the fragment the more difficult it is to keep it in proper position. Hence a good axiom, and one that applies more especially to fractures of the lower extremity, is that the position of the limb during repair should be so arranged that the long fragment is brought into line with the short one, and not vice versa. For exami)le, in a fracture of the femur below the lesser trochanter, the short upper fragment is tilted forwards, rotated outwards and abducted, and it is impossible with any form of apparatus to maintain the short fragment in the horizontal position and prevent its outward rotation. Hence, in putting up such a fracture, the long axis of the lower fragment must be made to coincide with that of the upper one—in other words, the thigh must be flexed, abducted and rotated outwards. In this connection it may be mentioned that, in spite of careful attention to position, the muscular contraction may be so great as to keep up the displacement, and, therefore, it may be advisable to divide tendons in order to neutralise the puU of the muscles. This is sometimes necessary in fractures about the ankle, where the gastrocnemius pulls back the lower fragment in spite of flexion of the knee. Retentive Apparatus.—After the fracture has been reduced, measures must be taken to keep the fragments in apposition until con- solidation has occurred. In some fractures, such as those of the skull and the upper jaw, in which there is no likelihood of a recurrence of the displacement after reduction, these measures are not necessary. The following are the chief methods in use : (i) Bandages and strapping ; (2) splints of various kinds, including immovable apparatus made of plaster of Paris, etc. ; (3) extension in its various forms ; and (4) operatix'e interference designed to fasten the fragments together mechanically. Bandages and Strapping.—These are chiefly employed in fractures involving tlie trunk. In fractures of the clavicle, for example, and in certain fractures of the jaw, no splints are required, bandages or strapping