AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 434 or so, however, the probability is that a sequestrum will have to be removed later on. Of Acute Osteo-myelitis.—Here the danger arises mainly from con- finement of the pus under pressure within the medulla, and the patient's safety depends to a great extent on the pus finding an early exit. Osteotomy.—Directly the diagnosis of acute osteo-myelitis is made, a free incision should be made down to the bone. By a free incision is meant not merely one through which the finger can be introduced, but an incision extending over the whole of the affected part of the bone. The periosteum should be incised, and the compact bone cut away so as to expose the medulla. This may be done by means of two or three large trephine holes afterwards joined together with a chisel and hammer, or the whole part may be laid open by a chisel or gouge and hammer. The medulla will be found very vascular and generally infiltrated with pus ; usually a drop or two of pus exudes as soon as it is opened. All soft inflamed and infiltrated tissue should be scraped away and the cavity sponged out with undiluted carbolic acid. Although a very free opening should be made into the medulla, it is not necessary to lay it open from top to bottom when a large extent of bone is involved ; it suffices to make two or three large openings, and through them to scrape out and disinfect the whole of the medullary cavity. Although the patient's depressed condition renders it inadvisable to perform a more severe operation than is absolutely necessary, there must be no hesitation in getting free access to the medulla. In all probability the bone exposed by the first incision would die in any case, and it is possible that by cutting it away freely the whole portion which would have died may be actually removed, and so a proportionately rapid recovery may ensue. After the medulla has been opened up and disinfected in this way, drainage tubes should be introduced into it, and gauze may be put in between the tubes to keep the skin edges apart. This gauze packing should not extend into the depth of the wound ; if the latter be stuffed tightly, as is sometimes done, the pus may be confined and its free escape from the medulla prevented. The object of putting in packing is to hinder the edges of the skin and the separated muscles from coming together, for that would prevent healing from the bottom. The hmb must be put on a splint, the joints above and below the affected bone being fixed in the position in which they will be most useful afterwards. After-treatment.'—The wound must be kept open for a few days and afterwards drained thoroughly. Peroxide of hyd:ogen (lo vols.) may be used daily for irrigation. If a trough has been made in the bone, it is a good plan to stitch up the greater part of the wound as soon as the acute stage of the disease has passed off, or to deal with it as recommended in connection with the removal of sequestra (see p. 444). Strict anti- septic precautions must be maintained throughout the treatment.