AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES i86 The reconstructive operation is probably only suitable for aneurysm of the abdominal aorta or the upper part of the common iliac, as it is almost certain to be followed by thrombosis, and it is hardly worth while to do such a difficult operation except when it is of great importance to maintain the circulation, if onty for a short time, in order to allow the collateral circulation to become established. We have given the full details of this operation because it has been done already with a fair amount of success in a considerable number of cases, especially in America. It must be, however, difficult to perform successfully, and it is probable that further experience will show it to be only of limited applicability. Compression. — The artery may be compressed either by the fingers or by special instruments. This method of treatment, which is now rarely resorted to, consists in applying pressure to the artery (if possible upon the proximal side of the aneurysm and at some distance from it) and maintaining that pressure either continuously or inter- mittently for twenty-four hours or longer. It has been found in practice that a number of aneurysms can be cured by pressure, even when applied intermittently. The objections to the procedure are, firstly, that it is difficult to compress the vessel satisfactorily; secondly, that it causes great pain to the patient; and thirdly, that there is risk of injury to the vessel itself at the seat of compression : aneurysms have developed later on at the point of pressure. At the present time, com- pression would only be occasionally employed in the treatment of femoral aneurysm. Galvano-puncture.—This method is only resorted to when there is no chance of employing one of the previous ones. Hence it is generally confined to sacculated aortic aneurysms which project externally, or to large innominate aneurysms. Its object is to cause the deposition of clot in the sac by the direct action of the galvanic current on the blood. Several needles connected with the positive pole of a constant battery are introduced into the sac, while the negative pole is connected with a large wet pad applied to the skin in the vicinity of the aneurysm. The skin must be scrupulously purified before the needles are introduced, and it is best not to introduce both poles into the sac ; a large amount of gas is disengaged at the negative, and the clot which forms there is soft, frothy, and useless; moreover, a considerable amount of heat may be generated, should the points of the needles come into contact. The clot formed at the positive pole is firm and of great use in the cure of the aneurysm, whilst the amount of gas disengaged is comparatively small. Only the finest needles should be employed, and they should be carefully insulated to within a short distance of their points ; the un- insulated portion should be buried completely in the interior of the aneurysm, so that only the insulated part is in contact with the skin and the wall of the sac. Unless this be done, the naked portion of the