448 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES bone. As time goes on, passive motion should be made by the surgeon daily. At the end of about eight weeks, the patient may be allowed to get about; but even then, the limb should not be allowed to hang down for any lengthened period. Massage should not be employed until three months have elapsed since the operation, and only then if it be necessary to increase the power of the muscles. Generally, however, it will not be necessary and, if not absolutely required, it is better to avoid it, because the new material is still very tender and might break down from very slight violence. In the case of the iodoform and paraffin, it should be softened and then tightly packed into the cavity until the latter is quite full; the periosteum and skin are then closed as above. If this succeeds, it will be found that the iodoform and paraffin gradually disappear and its place is taken by young fibrous tissue and later by bone. These methods are, of course, only successful if the wound remains aseptic and this cannot be foretold at the time of the operation. Hence, whenever it seems to the surgeon that he has been able to deal thoroughly with all the recesses of the cavity and that there is a good chance of an aseptic wound, he should employ the methods just described with the view of hastening the closure of the cavity. If the wound does not remain aseptic he must clear out the clots and foreign materials and deal with it in the following manner. (c) When the i&oimd becomes septic, it should be opened up, the clots, cleared out and the cavity washed with sterile salt solution or with weak sublimate lotion (i in 6000 or 8000). The wound is left widely open and packed with cyanide gauze, sub- stituting large drainage tubes for the gauze on the fourth or fifth day. Long before the cavity in the bone has filled up, however, the hole leading into the cavity will have become so small that a rubber drainage tube cannot be maintained, while the skin gets drawn in so as to form a gutter, at the bottom of which a small opening leads into the cavity in the bone When this condition is reached, the opening must be enlarged aad the sides of the gutter cut away, so as to allow a large drainage tube to be inserted, drainage tubes of silver, aluminium or lead, as advocated by Mr. Charters Symonds, being employed ; the granulations which have already formed in the cavity should not be disturbed. The metal tube must be taken out every few days to be cleaned and must not be dispensed with until the cavity has closed completely, which may not be for many months. The formation of the gutter can sometimes be avoided by stitching up the wound and bringing the drainage tube out at the side, but this gives no advantage as regards the healing of the cavity. These difficulties emphasise the great advantage of cutting away the edges of the cavity and obliterating it as far as possible m the first instance, and this should therefore always be done if possible.