POPLITEAL ANEURYSM 241 sartorius will be exposed as it crosses the space obliquely from without inwards (see Fig. 103). It is usually most convenient to draw this muscle to the inner side, but should the surgeon be operating at the upper part of the canal he will find it more easy to pull it outwards. This exposes the fibrous connection between the adductor longus and the vastus internus which forms the roof of Hunter's canal. A portion of this should be picked up in dissecting forceps and nicked, and the canal then laid open throughout the whole length of the incision upon a director or by means of the finger guiding a probe-pointed bistoury. This will expose the artery, which runs along the floor of the space with the saphenous nerve on its outer side and the femoral vein behind it. At the lower part of the canal the latter passes somewhat to the outer side of the artery. In this situation the saphenous nerve crosses the front of the vessel from the outer to the inner side, close to the spot at which the artery passes through the opening in the adductor magnus. Here also the anastomotica magna comes off and runs downward towards the knee. The artery in Hunter's canal is always tied above the origin of this branch. To do this the sheath of the artery is opened, the vessel cleansed, and the needle passed from the outer side just above the origin of the anastomotic branch. The after-treatment is that already described for the other ligatures of this vessel. Ligature of the Popliteal Artery.—As the anastomotica magna is one of the main factors in carrying on the collateral circulation, it is a better plan to tie the artery below the origin of that vessel whenever it is possible. This means that when the aneurysm is situated at the lower part of the pophteal space the popliteal artery should be tied above the centre of the space. Surgical Anatomy.—The popliteal artery extends from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. From its commencement the artery passes obliquely downwards and out- wards until it reaches the interval between the condyles of the femur ; below this point it descends vertically in the mid-line of the popliteal space. The artery is deeply placed, and from above do^vnwards rests on the popliteal surface of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the popliteal fascia and muscle. Posteriorly, its upper end is covered by the semi-membranosus, and its lower end by the gastrocnemius. The popliteal vein and the internal popliteal nerve cross the artery about its middle, the vein being close to the arter3^ and the nerve more super- ficial. The nerves to the soleus and popliteus, and the plantaris muscle are also behind the lower part of the artery. On the outer side are the biceps, the external condyle of the femur, the outer head of the gastro- cnemius and the plantaris muscle. The internal pophteal nerve and the popliteal vein lie on the outer side of the arteryjn the upper part of its course. II. R