FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR 385 the outer side of the thigh. It should be long enough to expose the fragments thoroughly, and all the incisions in the deeper parts should be of the same lengtli. When the clot has been turned out and the fractured ends are exposed, extension is made, and the broken surfaces are manijxilated into position and fixed by two or three Lane's plates (see p. 307). H.tmorrhage is then arrested and the wound closed by two layers of sutures, the inner draw ing together the fascia lata and the contiguous muscle fibres (see Fig. 129), and the outer uniting the skin. The limb must be most carefully steadied during and after the mechanical fixation, and immobilisation must be maintained until the splints have been put on. We use for this purpose four short Gooch's splints, folded round the limb ; a Croft's plaster casing also answers well. In addition, a long Liston's or a Thomas's hip splint should be Fig. 189.—Metal Splint for Fracture of the Shaft of the Femur. This splint may usefully bo employed to press down the upper fragment in place of, or in addition to, the plaster of Paris sliield, which it closely resembles in shape. Extra weight can easily be added by moulding a sheet of lead outside the splint. This splint is used in addition to the weight-extension. put on, and in vigorous adults it may be necessary to use extension for the first week or ten days so as to steady the muscles ; four or five pounds is sufficient. These fractures require from eight to ten weeks lor union to occur. Non-operative Treatment.—After the fracture has been reduced under an anaesthetic, extension must be employed to prevent subsequent displacement, and in an adult with strong muscles as much as twelve or fourteen pounds is sometimes necessary. The following is a good arrangement. The limb, with an extension stirrup applied (see p. 275), is placed horizontally upon the bed, and a weiglit of seven or eight pounds is attached to the cord. Counter-extension is provided for by a well- padded perineal band fastened to the head of the bed, the foot of which is raised on blocks. In two or three days the weight may be increased if necessary, up to twelve pounds or more. The limb should be kept })arallel with the middle line of the body and eversion of the foot must be corrected, because in these cases the upper fragment is not markedly abducted or rotated outwards. Eversion is best prevented by the means II. c c