FRACTURES OF THE MIDDLE OF THE FOREARM 347 over the head of the radius is exposed and opened by a horizontal incision and the detached portion of the head of the radius removed. If a con- siderable portion of the articular surface of the radius be intact, there is no need to take this away ; the detached portion should be removed and the wound in the joint sutured. If, however, the portion remaining attached to the shaft be very small, it is best to clip it away and thus to excise the head of the rachus. The slight shortening that occurs does not in any way interfere with the movements of the aim. The incision in the capsule is sutured with hue catgut, and the skin wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Afier-treattnent— ihe after-treatment will be similar to that already described for fracture of the olecranon (see p. 342) ; passi\"e movements must be resorted to early and maintained persistently. When the epiphysis has been separated the arm should lie ])ut up in the jiosition of lull supination upon an anterior angular sphnt; a straight splint should also be apphed along the back of the forearm, and i)assive movement sliould be carried out after the first fortnight. FRACTURES OF THE MIDDLE OF THE FOREARM. Either bone of the forearm may be fractured separately, or fracture of botli bones may occur simultaneously. FRACTURE OF THE ULNA ALONE. This injury is comparatively rare and is generally due to direct violence. The displacement depends to a great extent on the direction of the force and the situation of the fracture, and may not at all marked. The upper fragment is often tilted forwards by the brachialis anticus, while the lower one is pulled outwards towards the radius by the pronator quadratus. The subcutaneous position of the bone allows the displacement to be made out readily by manipulation. Fracture of the ulna may be complicated with dislocation of the head of the radius. When this happens, the usual condition is a fracture of the ulna at the junction of the upper with the middle third and a forward dislocation of the head of the radius. A stereoscopic radiogram will show I he exact state of affairs. TREATMENT.—The treatment should be duected first to bringing the fractured ends into apposition l^y manipulation, which is best accom- pHshed under an anaesthetic. The arm is then put up on an internal angular splint, with the elbow at right angles, and the forearm midway between pronation and supination. More comfortable than the ordinary wooden splint is a moulded one of poroplastic material which partly encircles the arm and holds the forearm in position ; the fingers should be left out and should be actively exercised. Early massage and