178 AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES prepared, it is apt to be absorbed too quickly, but with the firm, thick, chromic catgut whicli is at present on the market, three months or more may elapse before absorption is complete, and this material is sufficiently phable and much less irritating than silk ; it can therefore be used safely for arteries of moderate size. Kangaroo tendon, which has come much into favour with many surgeons, has the disadvantage of being extremely slipperj^ and the first half of the knot is much more likely to relax during the tjang of the second than when other materials are iised. At the same time the tendon has the advantage of being a flat instead of a round ligature, and is probably, therefore, more suitable when it is desired to avoid division of the internal coats of the artery, for example, in the ligature of such vessels as the innominate ; a double ligature must always be used here in order to avoid relaxation. It is of the utmost importance that the ligature material should be rendered absolutely aseptic, as asepsis is the great point to be aimed at in avoiding any risk of separation of the ligature, and, therefore, of secondary hfemorrhage. Risks of Ligature.—The chief of these are the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage, and the risk of gangrene in the parts supplied by the liga- tured artery. Secondary hcemorrhage was frequent after ligature of the larger arteries in former days, when it was attributed variously to a diseased condition of the artery at the seat of ligature, to too free detachment of the sheath of the vessel at the point at which the ligature was applied, to too early separation of the ligature, or to too small an amount of clot within the vessel. When a wound is aseptic it is not essential that the vessel should be perfectly healthy at the seat of ligature, nor does the freedom with which the sheath is detached from the artery seem to matter much. Formerly in all treatises upon ligature of arteries the greatest stress was laid upon the necessity of making a minute hole in the sheath of the vessel, and gradually insinuating a fine aneurysm needle around it so as to avoid any risk of raising the artery from its bed. While, of course, it is well to avoid denuding the artery of its sheath more than is necessary, we have ample experience to show that the arterial sheath can be stripped off for a considerable distance in an aseptic wound without any risk of secondary hcemorrhage. The real cause of secondary haemorrhage in former days was septic infection of the wound, which necessarily entailed the separation of the ligature ; when silk ligatures become septic, they must be extruded from the wound like any other foreign body before healing can take place. The result is that the vessel in the immediate neighbourhood of this foreign body becomes inflamed and converted into granulation tissue, and sup- puration ultimately occurs ; when this has taken place, the ligature becomes loose and can be pulled out. The only obstacle to the escape of blood from the vessel at this period is the granulation tissue into which the vessel wall has become converted, and the blood-clot deposited in the