262 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES being sufficient to secure proper coaptation and immobilisation. In fractures of the ribs also, strapping applied to the chest suffices to ensure sufficient immobilisation. In fractures of the extremities this method is rarely sufficient, although in certain instances such as fractures of one metacarpal or metatarsal bone, where the neighbouring bones can be made to act as efficient splints, a bandage is aU that is necessary to keep the parts at rest. The exact manner in which bandages and strapping should be applied will be described in connection with the particular fractures for which they are employed. We may mention here that it should be a cardinal rule in most cases (the chief exception being fracture of the ribs) that the bandages or strapping should not he put over the actual seat of fracture. This is important for two reasons: In the first place, the pressure upon the line of fracture causes pain to the patient, and may even bring about a recurrence of the displacement; while, in the second place, it may result in inflammation and possibly ulceration of the skin. Simple fractures have thus become converted into compound ones in the course of a few days. Splints.—In speaking of splints we shall coniine our remarks chiefly to fractures of the extremities. There are certain general rules of treat- ment applicable to the majority of these fractures. [a) Any joint acted tipon by muscles attached to either of the fragments should he immobilised. Hence the joint above and below the fracture should be included in the splints; in some fractures, e.g. those of the lower end of the humerus, other joints (in this instance those of the wrist and fingers) must be fixed also. Faulty union or non-union is often attributable to neglect of this precaution. {b) Undue pressure upon any bony prominence over which splints are applied must be avoided, otherwise there will be much pain, the muscles will be irritated and spasmodically contracted, and sloughs will probably form. The formation of a slough not only leads to further difficulty in applying the sphnts, but also exposes the patient to the risks of septic absorption. It is still more important that all pressure over the seat of the fracture should be avoided, as otherwise a simple fracture may be converted into a compound one. All splints must be thickly and uniformly padded, so as to minimise the pressure exerted by the hard material of which they are made. (c) The splints must not be bandaged on too tightly. An unduly tight bandage not only causes pain, and may give rise to pressure sores over bony prominences, but oedema of the limb below, followed by gangrene or the so-called ' ischasmic paralysis ' (see p. 294), may ensue from it. (d) No bandage should be put on beneath the splint unless it be required to secure a dressing. In fracture of the upper arm it has been recom- mended that the limb should be bandaged from the finger tips to the seat of the fracture before the splints are appHed, so as to prevent the