430 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES periostitis, inflammation of the bone itself or osteitis, and inflammation of the medulla or osteo-myelitis. When the periosteum is inflamed, the bone beneath is affected also, and when the medulla is inflamed, the bone and the periosteum are also attacked, so that all three forms are really present in most cases, the individual name given to the particular affection being determined by which of the three tissues is the principal seat of the disease. Inflammation of bone may be acute or chronic; acute osteitis may be suppurative or non-suppurative. The chronic inflammations of bone are simple, tuberculous and syphilitic. ACUTE NON-SUPPURATIVE OSTEITIS. It is doubtful whether inflammation of bone, unaccompanied by suppuration and deserving the name ' acute,' does really occur; indeed, it is doubtful whether even a true acute periostitis can occur without a pyogenic infection. The acute periostitis described by Oilier as ' albuminous periostitis,' characterised by a serous or albuminous exuda- tion beneath the periosteum, is probably only a mild form of the suppura- tive variety. Inflammation of the periosteum sometimes occurs during enteric fever, but this usually ends in suppuration, and is due either to the typhoid bacillus itself or to a pyogenic infection. TREATMENT.—The treatment would clearly be the same as that appropriate for the early stages of the suppurative form {vide infra). ACUTE SUPPURATIVE OSTEITIS. This is usually spoken of as acute osteo-myelitis, because the inflamma- tion usually begins in the medulla; the deeper layer of the periosteum, however, is the primary seat of the inflammation in a few cases. CAUSES.—Acute suppurative osteo-myelitis occurs especially in young subjects, and may be followed by a general pysemic infection. The disease may begin spontaneously or may follow an injury such as compound fracture. It is due to the pyogenic organisms, generally the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, sometimes the albus, very rarely the streptococcus pyogenes. In the spontaneous form these organisms are deposited from the blood, whence they may be derived from some preceding inflammatory condition, such as a boil. In other cases the disease may be preceded by digestive disturbance and diarrhoea, and here the organisms probably gain entrance from the intestinal tract. Often some local injury, such as a blow, a sprain, pressure, or exposure to cold, determines the localisation of the disease in a particular part. The spontaneous form is most common between the ages of ten and fourteen; it is very rare after twenty, and is more frequent in boys than in girls. The disease generally begins in the meduUa in the neighbourhood of the