432 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES formed part of the outer surface of the bone, so deeply is it embedded in dense new bone (see Plate IV.). The above remarks apply to acute suppurative inflammation of bone as it arises spontaneously; but the disease may occur in septic wounds where bones are divided, e.g., amputations, compound fractures, etc. Under these circumstances the infection spreads up through the medullary cavity, and also frequently beneath the periosteum at the same time. The result is that, if the patient lives, there is usually necrosis of the whole of the lower end of the bone, which extends upwards for a consider- able distance along the shaft; not infrequently other small independent sequestra are found at a higher level, especially in the central part of the bone. SYMPTOMS.—These will depend on the virulence of the causal agents and the extent and situation of the disease. In any case there is usually violent fever and great pain; the fever soon becomes of the typhoid type, being accompanied by a small rapid pulse, headache, thirst, dry tongue, stupor or delirium, and the disease is often mistaken for typhoid fever. The pain is generally intense, and if the bone be superficial there is soon swelling over it; the skin becomes red or livid, and fluctuation occurs. On incision, pus escapes and the bone is found to be bare in parts, while in others the periosteum peels off readily. When the bone is deeply seated, or when the disease is confined to the medulla, the swelling and redness may not appear so early, but in any case the pain is extreme. In bad cases there may be complete separation of the epiphysis from the shaft, with very grave symptoms and rapid death. When the disease is in the neighbourhood of the epiphysis, the joint in the vicinity often becomes inflamed and swollen, though not necessarily infected and suppurating. If suppuration occurs in the joint, the prog- nosis is very bad. RESULTS.^—The course which the disease will take depends very much on the particular form of the affection and the treatment adopted. The patient may die before an abscess has time to form—sometimes as early as the second or third day—from septic intoxication or acute septicaemia; in other cases death occurs from pyaemia, septicaemia, ulcerative endocarditis or fatty embolism, or, at a later period, from exhaustion and waxy degeneration of internal organs, in connection with the continued suppuration consequent upon the necrosis. Early treat- ment may save even very bad cases. Under any circumstances, however, the prognosis is always grave, both as regards the immediate and the final result. The probabihty is that the patient will have a long illness, that there will be serious derangement of the neighbouring joints, and that, when the epiphysis is affected, deficiency in growth and deformity wiU result, the exact amount depending upon the extent of the disease and the age of the patient at the time of the attack.