202 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS is pulled outwards and, after the operation, is stitched in position with catgut. Difficulties and Dangers.—Ligature of the common carotid, whether done above or below the omo-hyoid muscle, is always a serious procedure on account of the frequency with which cerebral complications follow it. When the artery is ligatured, the collateral circulation through the middle cerebral artery is often imperfect, and portions of the brain supphed by it may undergo softening; the consequence is that hemiplegia occurs in nearly lo per cent, of the cases, frequently with a fatal result. If branches of the external carotid or the trunk of the internal carotid are also ligatured simultaneously, something like 25 per cent, of the cases suffer from hemi- plegia, and of these nearly one-half are fatal. These cerebral comphcations may occur immediately after the application of the hgature, or they may not appear until after the lapse of 24 hours or more. Usually they begin in about twelve hours, the patient complaining of a feehng of giddiness and weakness on one side. This gradually increases and is generally accompanied by a considerable mental disturbance, which finally ends in coma and death. The treatment of an aneurysm situated at the bifurcation of the common carotid by simultaneous ligature of the common and internal trunks may be an operation of the greatest difficulty, owing to the small space available above the aneurysm. The first step is to tie the common trunk on the proximal side of the aneurysm; this has the advantage that, unless there are many clots in the sac, the tumour will collapse sufficiently to enable the surgeon to get satisfactoiy access to the internal carotid, and it has the further advantage that, should the sac be ruptured during the mani- pulations necessary for hgature of the internal trunk, it will not be a matter of such great importance, as the sac can then be excised and the external carotid and its branches also tied. Ligature of the Internal Carotid Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—This. artery commences at the bifurcation of the common carotid, and ter- minates in the middle fossa of the skull, where it divides into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. In the neck it Hes at first behind and on the outer side of the external carotid ; as it ascends, it becomes internal to this vessel in the upper part of the neck as it passes beneath the posterior belly of the digastric. The hne of the artery is similar to that of the common carotid. Behind it rests upon the rectus capitis anticus major, the prevertebral fascia, the sympathetic trunk, and the superior laryngeal nerve. On its outer side are the internal jugular vein and the vagus. The spinal acces- sory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves are behind and to its outer side in the upper part of the neck ; they he between it and the internal jugular vein. Internally is the external carotid artery below ; higher up are the pharynx, the ascending pharyngeal artery, the superior laryngeal nerve and the tonsil.