AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 298 Septic Complications.—-These are more likely to follow a compound than a simple fracture, but they may occur in simple fractures complicated by injuries of the skin, even when the latter are mere abrasions. When they do occur, they naturally complicate the case seriously, because the dressings must be changed repeatedly, and this entails much disturbance of the limb. Hence it is of great importance to examine the skin for abrasions in all cases of fracture, and, if any be found, to disinfect them and apply an antiseptic dressing before the limb is put up in a retentive apparatus. The treatment of these complications is dealt with fully in Vol. I. p. 155. CEdema of the Lungs and Hypostatic Pneumonia.—Con- gestion of the bases of the lungs, ending in a low form of pneumonia, is a troublesome and dangerous complication in old people who are the subjects of a fracture of the lower extremity which confines them to bed in the horizontal position ; it occurs most commonly after fractures of the neck of the femur. CEdema of the lung in old people confined to bed by a fracture is due to defective expansion of the bases of the lungs ; it usually commences about the end of the first fortnight after the receipt of the injury. If not treated immediately, it is apt to spread rapidly and bring about a fatal result, the bronchial tubes becoming choked with mucus, and the patient dying practically of asphyxia. Apart from this, pneumonia may also be caused by direct injury to the lung in cases of fractured ribs ; but this form is usually slight, limited and transient, and a fatal result seldom occurs from it except when the chest wall has been so extensively injured that respira- tion is seriously impeded. Pneumonia may also occur after fractures high up in the dorsal spine, and is then a frequent cause of death. It is due partly to the faulty expansion of the lung from paralysis of the inter- costals, and partly also to some trophic influence upon the nutrition of the lung itself. Its onset is often very rapid, and it soon ends fatally. Treatment.—The great danger of pneumonia after fractures of the lower extremity in old people should be borne in mind and hence, before any signs of congestion of the lungs occur, the patient should be placed in such a position that the lungs may expand as freely as possible. The chest should be enveloped in cotton wool, and nourishing food and stimulants administered. Splints, if employed, should be so arranged that the patient may be propped up in bed almost in the sitting position; in fractures of the neck of the femur usually all that can be done in the first instance is to employ light extension, as any really efficient splint would prevent the patient being propped up. If the patient be simply raised on pillows he will slip down in the bed, and in a short time become almost horizontal; hence a foot-rest should be fixed opposite the sound limb. If the patient's means permit, a Hessing's sphnt should be pro- cured as soon as possible. This must be specially made for each patient