6 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES ointment 1 should be smeared over it, so as to destroy any cocci that may remain on the skin. The latter should be thoroughly cleansed once or twice daily with ether soap and i in 2000 sublimate solution, and the ointment should be renewed after each washing. Friction by the clothes must be avoided ; for example, collars should be left off and soft shirts worn when the boil is on the neck. When the boils are on the body or limbs it is well to have the underclothing changed daily, and to see that the underclothing left off is sterilised by boiling. If the boil does not abort, as will become evident about the fourth day, antiseptic compresses such as boric fomentations or the following lotion : Hydrarg. Salic^d., gr. iij ; Acid. Salicyl., gr. xx ; Spts. Vini Rect. §i, Aquam ad §iv, may be employed; but if the pain be veiy severe, early crucial incisions, dividing the brawny tissues completely across, will give more relief than any other plan. It must not be supposed, however, that much quicker healing will be obtained by early in- cision, unless means be taken to get rid of the slough at the same time. Whether incisions be made or not, the slough will not separate before about the eighth day, but the advantage of the incision is that it ensures relief of the pain and a diminution of the inflammatory trouble. When a boil is bad enough to call for incision, the best plan is to scrape out the slough with a sharp spoon, if it be at all loose, and then to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the cavity left. Bier's suction method (see Vol. I. p. 14) and Wright's method of vaccine treatment (see Vol. I. p. 514) may often be employed with advantage. It is in cases of frequently recurring boils that the most striking effects have been obtained by the use of vaccines, but care must be taken as regards the dosage, otherwise disastrous results may follow. After-treatment.—If the slough be got away completely, the best dressings afterwards are antiseptic ointments, such as eucalyptus, or boric ointment, changed twice a day, the wound and the parts around being washed with a i in 2000 sublimate solution each time the dressing is re- newed. If portions of the slough still remain adherent, boric fomentations should be employed until they have separated. ' A useful ointment is composed of : Acid salicyl. . Ichthyol Ung. hydrarg. oleat. (5%) Zinci oxidi Amyli ) Paraffini mollis Fig. 2.—Bier's Suction Cup AS USED FOR BoiLS. The glass rim is applied firmly over the boil—or small carbuncle—after the air has been squeezed out of the india-rubber ball. If the edge of the glass be smeared with vaseline, good suction will be exerted on releasing the pressure upon the india-rubber baU. . gr. XX. 3 ss. 3 ]• . aa 3 ij. 5 ss.