AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 3o8 countersunk holes for the insertion of screws. The screws i resemble the ordinary type used by carpenters, but the thread is cut right up to the head as shown in Fig. 135. They should exactly fit the plate with which they are to be used, so that their heads are flush with it ; they should be long enough to go right through the compact shell of the bone. As many of these plates have to be inserted at the bottom of a deep wound, e.g. in the thigh, the special forceps shown iri Fig. 136 will be found a most useful aid while they are being put in. With them there is no fear of the screw slipping or being driven in obhquely, consequently its head will always be flush in the countersunk plate. These steel plates have largely replaced the aluminium collars that we formerly employed. These consist of fairly stout sheet aluminium, in which holes are bored about half an inch apart (see Fig. 137). A piece 1 The head of the screw may be with advantage slightly undercut as shown in Fig. 134, B. Such screws may be purchased, or the under-cutting (c) may readily be done with a fine hack saw or a Scale Fig. 133.—Lane's Bone Plates. The sketch shows a few of the various shapes and sizes of the plates ; there are many others, the plates may be had either dead hard—in which case they are rigid,—or not so highly tempered—when they may be bent to any required shape. All the screwholes are countersunk. A B thin file. These undercut screws are for use with a special screw-driver shown in Fig. 134, A. This bears four notches (a) just above its edge (b), so arranged that when the screw-driver is inserted into the slot in the head of the screw and slightly rotated, the notches engage beneath the undercut margins of the slot and prevent the screw-driver from slipping out. With this device it is possible to insert the screw with- out exercising any pressure and, there- fore, without displacing the fragments. It requires a little practice to get out of the habit of forcing the screw- driver into the slot of the screw, but, when once the surgeon has accustomed himself to twisting the screw-driver without exerting any pressure, this form of screw-driver will be found a distinct improve- ment on the ordinary type. k4f ■a Fig. 134.—NoN-SLippiNG Screw-driver and Screws WITH UNDERCUT MARGINS IN THE SLOT. The descrip- tion is given in the text.