137 TUMOURS tissue type, being either fibromatous or myxomatous in structure ; these tumours usually commence in connection with the connective tissue of the nerve sheath, and may be entirely outside the nerve, or may occur between the nerve bundles. They give rise to neuritis and neuralgic pain, which is sometimes insupportable. Later on, the pressure they exert may cause paralysis both of motion and sensation if they occur in a mixed nerve. The tumours may be single, but when myxomatous they are frequently multiple. TREATMENT. —The treatment of a tumour of this kind should be early removal. If it grows outside the nerve, it can generally be dissected off without interfering with the continuity of the nerve trunk. When, however, it grows in the substance of it, it may be necessary to excise a portion of the nerve containing the tumour, and then to perform immediate nerve suture (see p. 117). MALIGNANT TUMOURS. Malignant tumours in connection with a nerve are not uncommon, but they usually involve it secondarily, either by pressing upon it and stretching it as they grow, or by invading and destroying it, as is generally the case with carcinomatous tumours. TREATMENT.—Tumours that can be removed should be excised early and freely along with the portion of the nerve implicated ; this should be followed, if possible, by immediate nerve-suture (see p. 117). When the tumour cannot be removed, the treatment can only be directed towards the symptoms, and surgical interference is only necessary when a sensory nerve is involved and unbearable pain is caused. Should this be the case, a portion of the nerve should be excised well above the tumour so as to prevent the transmission of impulses upwards. In a mixed nerve this operation entails motor paralysis of the parts supplied by the nerve, but this is of no moment, since the case must eventually end fatally ; the important point is to secure a moderate amount of comfort for the patient by the relief of pain. When the tumour is situated in regions where it is difficult to expose the nerve above the seat of pressure, as, for example, in pelvic tumours, division of the posterior nerve roots (see p. 130) may be carried out. The pain is thereby abohshed and the patient much relieved for a time at any rate. Unfor- tunately, recurrence of the pain after a time is the rule, but in cases of malignant tumour the fatal result may ensue before there is time for this. OPERATIONS FOR EXPOSING THE MAIN NERVE TRUNKS IN THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The operations on the nerves of the head and neck are fully referred to in connection with the affections of those regions (see Vol. III.). In all cases where it is desired to expose a nerve, it is best, if possible, to