METHOD OF PERFORMING A TYPICAL AMPUTATION 505 either from some error in the management of the case or as the l esult of an amputation carried out through a septic region. The treatment will be that of a septic wound (see Vol. I. p. 155). The most important point is the establishment of free drainage. When the septic condition has subsided and granulation is established, attention must be directed to preventing retraction of the flaps. This is best done by the gauze and collodion dressing just referred to, which may be put on next the skin, and also by the stump bandage which is applied outside the dressings in the manner just described. Special care has to be taken to keep the limb on the splint in a position that will relax the long flap as much as possible mitil the wound has healed. In some cases it is well to stitch up the wound again after laying a drainage tube between the two surfaces. FAULTY STUMPS. Apart from the question of sepsis in amputation wounds, which ought not to occur at the present day, a stump may be faulty either fronr adhesion of the cicatrix to tlie end of the bone, with possibly involvement of nerves in the scar, or from the formation of what is known as a conical stump. ADHERENT CICATRIX.—This condition has already been referred to (see p. 483); it usually results from sepsis and subsequent healing by granulation, which is followed by adhesion of the flaps and the scar to the bone. It may result from faulty planning of the flaps, however, even after a perfectly aseptic operation. An adherent cicatrix often gives rise to very great pain on jnessure, even when the larger nerves have been cut short as recommended above, and is then due to the implication in the cicatrix of the smaller nerve branches, which become bulbous and give rise to excessive pain. Besides the neuralgic condition of a stump in which the cicatrix is adherent, there is apt to be persistent ulceration in the scar, owing to the low vitality of the cicatricial tissue which breaks down upon the slightest pressure. In stumps of this kind the nutrition of the entire end of the stump is apt to be defective ; it is cold, livid in colour, and liable to be affected by obstinate ulceration. Treatment.—The best plan is to re-amputate in all cases of painful and adherent cicatrix. The other alternative is to cut away the cicatrix, open up the wound and resect a portion of the bone. The latter method is, however, very likely to be followed by fresh, adhesion to the bone and recurrence of the symptoms, and therefore a new clean amputation is much better. When, however, an important joint, such as the knee, would have to be sacrificed if fresh flaps were made, it may be worth while to try the effect of removing a portion of the bone after excising the old cicatrix, and if this fails, recourse can still be had to amputation above the joint.