46 AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS Hence, access of the air to the interior should be hindered as far as possible. Two methods may be employed, the first being more to be recommended in the early stages. In both, the operation must be carried out with strict antiseptic precautions. (i) An incision is made into the abscess just large enough to admit a Barker's small flushing spoon (see Fig. 12). The pus is allowed to escape, and the spoon attached to an irrigator containing a i in 4000 sublimate solution is introduced. The abscess is then flushed out thoroughly and the remains of the gland scraped away. The abscess cavity is squeezed dry and then filled with a 10 per cent, emulsion of iodoform and glycerine,i or a 10 per cent, emulsion of iodoform and vase- FiG. 12.—Barker's Flushing Curette. line, liquefied by heat ; an antiseptic dressing is afterwards applied, no stitches being mserted. In some cases the wound heals without further trouble. (2) An incision is made, the pus evacuated, the interior scraped and washed out as before, and then sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. A small drainage tube is inserted, and antiseptic dressings are applied. The subsequent treatment, as regards dressings and drainage tube, is the same as in acute abscess. If the wound tend to enlarge and become chancrous, it must be laid open freely, all sinuses or diverticula slit up, the surface scraped and nitric acid applied and its action neutralised after about five minutes by carbonate of soda solution (see Vol. I. p. 63) ; the cavity is stuffed afterwards with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform. At first the superficial dressings must be renewed daily, but the packing need not be taken out for some days if it adhere firmly to the wound. Later on, the dressings will need changing at less frequent intervals and, finally, weak boric ointment may be substituted when the cavity has become filled with granulation tissue. SYPHILITIC BUBO.—SyphiUtic affections of the glands may occur in any stage of the disease. In the primary stage the adenitis generally begins from the fourth to the tenth day after the appearance of the sore ; it is usually bilateral, and several glands are affected, the one nearest the chancre being usually the largest. There is no tendency in these cases to suppuration. The secondary form of adenitis affects the glands else- 1 Made by adding i part of sterilised iodoform to 9 parts of sterile glycerine. The iodoform is sterilised by keeping it submerged for some days in a i in 20 watery solution of carbolic acid.