THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES 263 occurrence of oedema. We do not advise this. It prevents tlie surgeon from seeing what is happening when the sphnts have been applied, and in spite of the bandages oedema may occur, followed by great constriction and even gangrene of the limb. If a bandage be employed, it should not reach higher than the lower end of the splint. {e) While the splints are being secured to the limb the traction upon the fragments must not be relaxed nor must the direction of the latter be altered until the splints have been applied. Displacement is otherwise liable to recur. In selecting any particular form of splint, attention should be paid to the following points : (i) The splint should be as light as is consistent with the work it has to perform ; (2) it should permit of evaporation, otherwise decomposition of the sweat may lead to irritation of the skin beneath ; (3) it should take its purchase only from bony points, and should not press unduly upon the hmb anywhere ; (4) it should be easily removable, so as to permit of massage and passive movements of the muscles and neighbouring joints. The most careful attention must be paid to the padding of spHnts. In hospitals, sphnts are generally made ready for use in large numbers by placing cotton wool or tow over the splint and keeping this in place by means of a piece of linen stitched across the back of the splint. Splints so padded are unsuitable because they are made without reference to the shape or peculiarity of the limb to which they are to be apphed. The surgeon should pad the splints himself immediately before he puts them on, by arranging tow or wool over the splint, making it thicker where hollows are present. Over this is placed a piece of folded linen which overlaps the splint in all directions ; when the splint is to be left on for some time, it is well to place a layer of boric lint between the linen and the skin so as to absorb the sweat and prevent its decomposition. In addition small pads of wool or tow sewn up in muslin should be arranged between the limb and the si:ilint wherever required to avoid pressure upon bony prominences. In hospital patients powdered fennel, dusted thickly over and among the splints and padding, will be found useful in keeping down vermin which are otherwise liable to infest the retentive apparatus. SpHnts may be fastened to the limb by straps or bandages. It is a common custom to fix them on by strips of strapping circularly applied in two or three places, and no doubt this prevents them from slipping. It is only necessary however, when flat wooden spUnts are employed, and if the limb swells it has the disadvantage that, as the strapping is unyield- ing, constriction will be caused and the oedema below will be increased. Most spHnts may be fastened on with bandages, and this is the most com- fortable and convenient method. In a few days the original bandages may be removed and fresh ones applied, or a fresh bandage can be put on outside the first, if the latter be getting loose, without disturbing the