214 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS abducted; if necessary the pectoralis major may be divided so as to obtain better access to the aneurysm. When the sac has been ex})Osed, the artery is identified as it leaves it, and is controlled by pressure, by CrUe's clamp (see p. 183), or by a temporary ligature (see Vol. I. p. 107), and then the sac is laid freely open, and the clots turned out. Endo- aneurysmorrhaphy (see p. 182) may then be performed or the artery defined, cleared, and tied above and below the opening. Owing to the close relation of the vessel to the brachial plexus and the axillary vein, it is advisable not to remove the sac. The pectoralis major, if divided, should be sewn together in the manner described for suture of muscles (see p. 63), and the arm is wrapped in wool and lightly fastened to the side. ANEURYSMS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Spontaneous aneurysms of the upper extremity below the axilla are very rare. As a rule they result from injuries, usually from puncture of the vessel, and belong to the class of traumatic aneurysms. The}' may also be caused by septic emboli, detached from the aortic valves in ulcerative endocarditis. TREATMENT.—Whenever it is possible the treatment consists in opening the sac, turning out the clots, tying the vessel above and below, and excising the sac completely. This can be done without risk, because the entire circulation in the limb can be controlled by an Esmarch's bandage. The actual steps of the procedure depend, of course, upon the particular vessel involved. We shall here describe briefly the operations for ligature of the chief arteries of the upper extremity. Ligature of the Axillary Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—A line drawn from the middle of the clavicle to the inner margin of the coraco- brachialis, when the arm is abducted to a right angle with the trunk, will indicate the position of the artery. The line of the vessel varies with the position of the limb. If the arm be at right angles to the trunk, the artery is almost straight, and the vein is in front of it. When the arm is elevated above the shoulder, the artery is curved round the head of the humerus, and the vein hides it completely. The size of the vein varies greatly with respiration. Relations of the First Part of the Artery.—Behind are the first digitation of the serratus magnus, the first intercostal space and its muscle, and the posterior or long thoracic nerve. In front are the costo-coracoid mem- brane, the cephalic vein, the platysma, the descending clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, the deep and superficial fascia and the skin. Above and to the outer side are the cords of the brachial plexus ; below and to the inner side are the axillary vein and the internal anterior thoracic nerve. Relations of the Third Part of the Artery.—Behind, the artery rests upon