4i6 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES method is always preferable if it can be adopted; if the fibula be resected, there may be delay in. the union on account of the greater mobility of the Umb. FRACTURE OF THE LOWER END OF THE TIBIA, Fracture in this region is extremely rare. Sometimes the internal malleolus is broken off by direct violence, such as a kick, without fracture of the shaft. There will be no displacement of the foot, and but little of the malleolus. TRBATMBNT.^It suffices to put the leg up in a Croft's sphnt for about a fortnight. Passive movement and massage should be practised daily from the first. Union usually takes place readily. FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE. FRACTURE OF THE SHAFT. The shaft of the fibula is rarely fractured alone, on account of its deep situation ; the displacement is usually slight, as the tibia forms an excellent splint. A Croft's splint should be applied for about a fortnight, with daily massage and passive movement of the ankle. After a fortnight the splint may be left off entirely, the massage and passive movement being con- tinued ; the patient may be allowed to walk in four or five weeks' time. It is essential to see that there is no mal-position of the foot. pott's FRACTURE. This is a fracture of the lower end of the iibula, accompanied by an outward and backward displacement of the foot. The frac- ture of the fibula is frequently associated with fracture of the internal malleolus. Sometimes, however, the internal lateral ligament of the ankle gives way, and the malleolus either remains intact or a mere shell of bone is torn from it. The fibula is fractured from an inch to an inch and a half above the base of the malleolus. The typical Pott's fracture is always due to indirect violence ; fracture may occur in this situation from direct injuries such as kicks, but it is then unaccompanied by the displacement of the foot, and cannot therefore be looked upon as a Pott's fracture. In most cases of Pott's fracture, there is displacement back- wards as well as outwards ; in cases which result from catching the heel, the backward displacement is very marked and has to be specially counteracted. As the fibula breaks, the internal malleolus usually gives way, and there is more or less tearing of the anterior and posterior tibio- fibular ligaments. The fracture is usually somewhat oblique and there is some angular displacement. This injury is of great importance, because