85 TUBERCULOUS TENO-SYNOVITIS much thickened and pulpy, and this condition is often secondary to disease of bones or joints in the neighbourhood, or to chronic abscesses, though sometimes it is primary affection. The patients are usually from 18 to 25 years of age, and the tendon sheaths chiefly affected are those about the hand and instep. The disease generally begins in the sheath, and may be confined to it for a considerable time, but the tendon often becomes affected eventually, and may ulti- mately be eaten through completely by the granulation tissue. Abscesses frequently form, make their way to the skin and burst ; in other cases the disease may extend to the joint over which the tendon passes. The condition may follow upon some previous inflammation, or may come on insidiously, and in the latter case the first thing that the patient usually notices is difficulty in movement and the presence of a diffuse, ill-defined, soft swelling parallel to the tendon ; in some situations, as for example, at the front of the wrist, this swelling may be hour-glass in shape, one portion of the swelling being situated in the palm below the annular ligament, and the other portion in the forearm immediately above this structure. The mass is elastic and semi-fluctuating and is movable laterally along with the tendon, but not longitudinally. The movements of the tendons are impeded, and later on there will be contraction or even solution of continuity of the tendons. Treatment.—Operative.—Excision of the affected sheath or sheaths is the best treatment An extensive operation is usually required, as the treatment must be as thorough as in the case of an arthrectomy for Fig. 22.—Fine Dissector. One end is a very fine dissector with which delicate work, such as the separation of the tendon sheath from the surrounding parts, can be easily done ; the other is bent and is probe pointed and serves to pull aside the structures thus isolated. tuberculous joint disease. The incisions must be so planned that the sheath or sheaths are fully exposed over the whole of the affected area. In the case of the extensor tendons for instance, a flap with its convexity to one side is raised from the back of the hand so as to expose the whole swelling. The tendon sheath is then carefully isolated from the surround- ing parts, and the whole of the disease is cut away with scissors or the knife. This is usually comparatively easy ; the chief essential for success is to isolate the whole of the affected area from the healthy tissue before opening and clipping the sheath away. The tendon sheath is isolated with a blunt dissector or a gland separator (see Fig. 22), and the deeper part freed so that it can be lifted up from the subjacent tissues. The sheath is then divided by two circular incisions, one well above and the other well below the limits of the disease, and the affected portion is incised vertically from one circular incision to the other ; this lays the