ARTERITIS 165 rence of multiple abscesses and pycBmia, and acute aneurysm. Acute arteritis is usually part of an extensive septic process, and is not a disease strictly limited to the coat of the artery itself; treatment therefore can seldom be brought to bear directly upon the inflammation of the arterial coat, and the chief attention must be directed to the general septic condi- tion. The question of ligaturing the vessel above the seat of inflammation, in cases where acute arteritis affects the extremities, is one which must be carefully considered ; the object of the procedure is to prevent the dis- placement of the breaking-down clot and to clear out clots already present, on principles similar to those that guide us in the treatment of septic phlebitis. When the case is one of peri-avteritis, the treatment of the inflammation in the vicinity of the vessel is the chief point ; here there may be not only thrombosis and septic embolism, but softening of the vessel wall with rupture, and haemorrhage into the tissues or through an open wound. Such an accident is, however, of extreme rarity. The general treatment must be that of pyaemia (see Vol. I. Chap. IX.). CHRONIC ARTERITIS. ENDARTERITIS OBLITERANS.—One of the commonest forms of chronic arteritis is endarteritis obliterans, in which the internal coat becomes thickened, and ultimately either obliterates the lumen of the vessel or leads to thrombosis. This condition may occur in various diseases, particularly syphilis—in which it affects the small vessels—■ alcoholism, diabetes, etc. ATHEROMA.—This is a more chronic and limited form of end- arteritis, which is of great importance in connection with aneurysm. In atheroma the inflammation occurs in the deeper part of the internal coat of the artery, and results in the formation there of a mass of young cells which tend to undergo organisation into fibrous tissue. This attempt, however, usually fails ; fatty degeneration takes place, and either the degenerated mass bursts into the interior of the artery (the condition spoken of as athcroviatoHS abscess), or lime salts are deposited in it and form calcareous plates which render the artery rigid and which also project through the endothelial lining membrane ; coagulation subsequently takes place on the rough edges of these plates. This condition rarely remains limited to the internal coat, but spreads to the middle one, and there leads to softening and partial destruction of the muscular tissue. The result is either weakening and dilatation of the vessel wall, or calcifi- cation of the middle coat, the vessel becoming converted into a calcareous tube. Atheroma is usually diffuse, and affects a number of vessels, especially the larger ones such as the aorta. It occurs chiefly in old people, more often in men than in women, and it seems to bear some relation to syphihs, gout, and the other conditions predisposing to endarteritis.