376 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES splint should be applied as soon as possible and the patient allowed to get up. Mechanical Fixation of the Fragments.—The question of operative interference in these cases has been a good deal discussed. The patient is usually too old and feeble to undergo what must necessarily be a severe operation, and, besides this, the bone is generally so much atrophied that the chance of getting a good result is not good. When, however, the fracture occurs in a comparatively young and vigorous patient (45-55) operation may be justifiable. In more than one case of this kind in which the fracture was apparently intra-capsular, we have operated with success. Under an anaesthetic extension by weight and pulley is made in the first instance upon the limb until the two limbs are of the same length. The femur is then rotated firmly inwards and the parts manipulated until the fragments seem to be in position. The neck of the femur is then exposed by means of an incision running obliquely downwards and inwards from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, over the interval between the sartorius and the tensor vaginas femoris muscles, and by means of this the surgeon can assure himself that the fragments are in good position while they are being fastened together. A vertical incision is then made over the outer surface of the great trochanter right down to the bone, and a drill driven through the trochanter and along the neck of the bone until it penetrates well into the head of the femur. The distance the drill penetrates is determined by measurements on the sound side, and also by the finger in the anterior incision. The drill is then with- drawn and a square ivory peg fitting the hole exactly is driven in and cut short. It is well to drive in a second peg higher up. A long Liston's splint is then put on and weight extension applied. The splint may be left off in six weeks, and for the following month the patient should be encouraged to move the hip as she lies in bed without being allowed to bear weight upon it. If tlie union be not firm, a Hessing's splint should be worn until that is the case. Of Impacted Fractures in Young Adults.— Here the long splint alone is often sufficient, but, as the impaction is frequently slight, amounting sometimes to a mere entanglement of irregular fragments, it is well to employ extension also. Two or three pounds usually suffice. Of Fractures in Elderly and Feeble Subjects.—In these patients it is not advisable to attempt to obtain bony, or even firm, fibrous union, and when the patient can afford it, the best plan is to apply Hessing's splint as soon as possible and to get him up. At the first the patient must be kept on a couch; next, he should be encouraged to stand with help and to sit more upright, while finally he may he able to get about with crutches or a stick.