VARICOSE VEINS 155 internal saphena vein close to its junction with the femoral. At first sight this would seem likely to increase the varicosity by interfering with the return of the venous blood, but the blood pressure from below is so slight, and there are so many communications with the deeper veins, that the application of the ligature is not nearly so harmful as the weight of the column of blood after the valves have become incompetent. Removal of a portion of the internal saphena high up (Trendelenburg's operation) is only necessary when the vein is dilated in the thigh and the valves are incompetent. Some surgeons, in Germany especially, are content with removal of the saphena at the groin, and leave the other enlarged veins untouched ; but as the superficial and deep veins com- municate behind and at the inner side of the knee, and in the upper part of the leg, the downward pressure upon the veins of the leg is not entirely cut oft by the obliteration of the saphena alone. We make it a rule, therefore, not only to excise a portion of the saphena as high as possible, but also to remove any masses of enlarged veins about the knee or popliteal space, and any much dilated groups in the leg which threaten to burst through the skin ; any dilatations at the points of junction of a number of veins should also be taken away. Hence, in an ordinary case there may be five or six other places in which veins should be excised, besides the internal saphena. As a preliminary to operation in all cases the veins should be marked out before the patient is placed under the anaesthetic ; an excellent way to do this is to paint a solution of nitrate of silver (60 grs. to the oz.) over the portions of the veins to be removed with a camel's hair brush the day before the operation, followed by a 5 per cent, solution of pyrogallic acid, applied as soon as the silver solution has dried, which will bring out the silver stain at once. In this way a sufficient staining of the skin is obtained, which will not be effaced by the most energetic disin- fection. If an ordinary flesh pencil or aniline dye be used, the stain is sure to be rubbed off while the skin is being disinfected. On no account should a stronger solution of nitrate of silver be employed than the one recommended above, otherwise blistering or even sloughing of the skin may result. This definition of the veins to be excised saves much time and simplifies the operation. Occasionally the nitrate of silver method is not available, and under these circumstances we have found a useful substitute for it is to mark out the enlarged veins, when the patient stands erect, with an aniline pencil or a thin line of tincture of iodine. To avoid the marking being obliterated during disinfection of the skin we scratch the latter along these markings with the point of a knife before proceeding to disinfect the skin. The bleeding scratch is of course readily recognised. Excision of Veins.—-The operation consists in removing a portion of the veins at the various points thus marked out. The larger the portions removed at any one point, and the more branches that can be