TRANSVERSE FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA Since we have abandoned the use of sphnts we are much better satisfied with the results. The dressings are removed at the end of a week, the stitches taken out, and a thin layer of gauze laid along the line of the incision and fixed on with collodion. The leg is then left free and the pillow removed, while the patient is encouraged to move the limb as he chooses. No restriction is placed on the movement that he may carry out in bed. At the end of a fortnight he is permitted to stand with the aid of a couple of sticks and to bend the knee from time to time. At the end of three weeks he is allowed to get about with the aid of two sticks, and by the end of six weeks he is usually al)le to walk without support, and has perfect movement of the joint. There is no reason wiiy the patient should not be allowed to walk about early, relying on the silver wire alone ; if it be strong enough and has sufficient hold, it may be trusted to keep the parts properly in apposi- tion until bony union has taken place. The wire gives no trouble afterwards if the flap operation be employed. Formerly, when a vertical incision was employed, the wire some- times caused a good deal of irritation to the scar and had to be removed. If it be necessary to remove the wire, a small vertical incision should be made over it rather to one side and near the twist, the wire divided by cutting pliers close to the bone, and then the long end pulled upon until it is extracted. When the wire is very thick this is sometimes difficult, and then it is best to make a rather longer incision over the wire, cut it just to one side of the twist, and then seizing each end with a for- ceps to straighten the wire as much as possible. Then one end is cut oft close to the bone and traction is applied to the other, and the wire drawn through without difficulty. The wire should not be extracted until some months after the operation, when it is quite certain that consolidation is complete. Other Operations.—Other operative measures have been introduced with the idea that they offer greater safety to the patient. In our opinion none of them are nearly as satisfactory as the one just described. Mal- gaigne's hooks are used by some, and a subcutaneous operation, upon the lines of that devised by Mr. Barker, by others. But the objection to them all is that, even if they succeed in securing perfect adaptation of the fragments, which is doubtful, the torn periosteum and fibrous tissue are still left interposed between the fragments and offer a bar to proper union. If the surgeon's work be aseptic there is no more clanger in the open operation than in the others, whilst the result obtained bj- it is much more satisfactory. A good many surgeons unite the fragments by means of one or more DD 2 Fig. 201.—Method of Uniting A Comminuted Fracture of the Patella. The two smaller frag- ments are united by a thin wire, and the single fragment thus produced is united to the other by two stout wires.