FRACTURES OF LOWER END OF HUMERUS 335 interfered with. When one or both fragments are small, it w ill be better to cut down in the middle line behind, split the triceps, peel it off from the olecranon to a slight extent without cutting it across, and so gain access to the fracture without unduly denuding the condyles. Any small loose fragments are removed, and all blood-clot is cleared out from the articular cavity. The fractured condyles are then fastened together. When a median vertical incision has been employed, a small lateral incision should be made over one condyle in order to allow of the intro- duction of a drill which is made to perforate the condyles transversely from side to side, while the frag- ments are held in accurate apposi- tion. When lateral incisions are used, the drill can be passed through one of them. Into the drill hole is driven either a steel pin, the end of which pro- jects from the opening to permit of its subsequent removal, or a fine square ivory peg, which may be cut short and left in. Through the posterior incision the condyles, thus united to one another, should be fastened to the shaft of the bone by screws, plates or wires. The steps of the operation vary accord- ing to the circumstances of each individual case, and cannot be de- scribed in full detail. Sometimes the line of fracture is such that the best hold will be obtained by fasten- ing each condjde separately to the shaft without joining them to each other first. The question as to whether lateral incisions or the median vertical incision should be employed wih depend upon which will give the easiest access to the fracture. GeneraUy the median incision is the best. The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, and the limb is put up in a Croft's splint in the fully-flexed position. The subsequent treat- ment is the same as for a case of supra-condyloid fracture (see p. 332). If a metal pin has been inserted it may be removed about the end of the third week, but there is no reason why massage should not be carried out without reference to it, provided that a piece of gauze soaked in a I in 2000 sublimate solution be wrapped around the end of the pin and the skin wound during its performance. Fig. 155.- Comminuted Fracture of the Lower End of the Humerus. This is a good example of how difficult it may be to get perfect apposition of the fragments.