AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS 94 Fig. 26, B). It is well also to put in one or two sutures in the centre to reinforce the lateral ones; these will prevent the cut surfaces from becoming displaced laterally or curled up, and they may be inserted in the ordinary manner, as they do not bear any strain. The best material for uniting tendons is chromicised catgut, which undergoes absorption very slowly. Silk is sometimes used, but it is better to employ a material that is more quickly absorbed. The lateral stitches should be fairly stout, but the centre ones should be quite fine, in order that there shall be as little friction as possible between the tendon and its sheath. When several tendons are divided in the same wound, it is necessary to make sure that the two ends united belong to the same-muscle. There should be no difficulty about this if the tendons have been divided by the surgeon in the course of an operation such as tendon lengthening, or arthrec- tomy, as he will then take means to identify each tendon as it is divided by means of some such device as passing a thread through it, with or without a cer- tain number of knots in it. In an ac- cidental wound, however, such as a cut dividing all the tendons on the front of the wrist, it is often difficult to identify the corresponding ends of each tendon divided without an elaborate dissection. The wound should be stitched up carefully so as to get union by first intention over the spot at which the division has occurred. If necessary a catgut drain may be placed in one corner of the wound so as to avoid the possibility of its becoming distended with serum or blood. If the wound be dirty when first seen, a drainage tube should be employed. The limb is fixed on a sphnt in such a position as to ensure full relaxation of all the muscles concerned. In the case of a wound on the front of the wrist, the upper arm, forearm, and hand may be fixed in a trough of poroplastic material or gutta-percha moulded to fit the limb, the elbow, fingers, and wrist being fully flexed. After-treatment.—This position of extreme relaxation may be gradually altered by taking off the splint every two or three days, and increasing its angle slightly each time. In about a fortnight the patient should be encouraged to move the fingers, and gentle passive movement may also be begun. By that time some adhesions will have formed, but they are soft, and readily give way on stretching the fingers. It is essential not to use force enough to tear through the union in the tendon, but when the stitching has been done as recommended above, there is not much risk Fig. 26.—^Tendon Suture. In A are shown the stout lateral stitches upon which the strain is thrown. In B the cut ends are approximated by tying the lateral stitches, and in addition, the finer coaptation stitches are put in.