i84 AFFECTIONS OF ARTERIES absorbed. Fully curved, spring-eyed, round intestinal needles should be used, and the suture should be as thick as the needle will carry, so that it fills completely the hole made by the needle. The size of the needle and suture will vary with that of the artery to be sutured, and a needle-holder will be required. Interrupted or continuous sutures may be employed ; the latter is probably the better, and each suture should be about one-eighth of an inch from its neighbour, and should be inserted through the inner wall of the sac about a sixth to a quarter of an inch from the margin of the orifice, and should then pick up the floor of the artery as it enters the sac ; finally it is passed through the opposite margin of the aperture of com- munication (see Fig. 68). A sufficient number of sutures are introduced to occlude the opening completely. Each ori- fice is sutured separately, and the mouth of any branch given off from the aneurysmal sac is treated similarly. A second layer of sutures burying the first may be employed, but is not absolutely necessary. The later stages of the operation are common to the two methods [vide infra). The Restorative Suture.— The object here is to approxim- ate the edges of the opening, so as to cut off communication between the aneurysm and the artery without obliterating the lumen of the latter. The needle is entered well outside the edge of the aperture, but is brought out through its margin (see Fig. 69). It is then introduced through the margin on the opposite side and brought out some distance from the edge. This gives a firm hold and does not diminish the lumen of the vessel. A con- tinuous suture is best. A second layer of sutures, which takes up the sac wall only and is external to this, may be used in order to secure still firmer apposition. It will be seen that in this method the first suture must lie in the blood-stream unless the approximation be perfect, and therefore the risk of thrombosis is considerable. Obliteration'of the Sac—The steps of this part of! the 'operation are Fig. 67.—Matas's Obliterative Suture applied to A Popliteal Aneurysm, [a.) Tourniquet; (b) lint ap- plied beneath the tourniquet; (c) divided edge of the skin and fascia ; (d) sac of the aneurysm ; (e) small vessel opening into the sac, sutured; (J) edge of the main vessel; (g) lower opening of the popliteal artery.