FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR 381 cannot be overcome by traction ; the lower fragment must therefore be brought into a line with the upper. The thigh is flexed until the axis of the lower fragment coincides with that of the upper, and the lower fragment must also be abducted and rotated slightly out- wards, so as to brmg the two fragments into accurate alignment. It is, however, often very difficult to do this satisfactorily by splints, and there- fore, unless there is some strong contra- indication, the best method of treatment is by operation. However well a splint may be applied in the first instance, it will soon be found that the thigh has sagged down and that the rotation has altered, and it frequently happens that the fracture unites at an angle and with one fragment rotated upon the other. Operation.—The seat of fracture is ex- posed by an incision along the outer side of the thigh and the fragments are got into accurate position and fixed there by means of Lane's plates (see p. 307). A long Liston's splint will keep the parts steady afterwards, and will be the most comfortable arrangement. Splints.—When for any reason opera- tion is not advisable, splints must be used. Two forms of splints are in general use for this purpose, viz. Hodgen's and Macintyre's. Hodgen's splint is applied as follows : A stirrup is first applied to the limb in tlie usual manner (see p. 274), and then the wire frame, of a size suitable for the particular case, is converted into a form of sling for Fig. 186. ■— Fracture of the Shaft of the Femur. To illus- trate the line of action of the muscles producing the deformity, a, Ilio- psoas ; b, glutei ; c c, adductors ; d, hamstrings ; e, quadriceps exten- sor cruris ; / indicates how the weight of the limb tends to produce eversion. the reception of the injured limb. Strips of stout flannel of suitable length, and about three or four inches wide, are fastened to one side of the frame, and the latter is then placed in position over the limb and converted into a sling by bringing the free end of each strip of flannel round beneath the limb in succession, and fastening it to the opposite side of the frame, in which the limb is thus suspended com- fortablj'. The upper and outer extremity of the wire frame should lie