ANEURYSM 183 The former may be called the ' obliterative ' and the latter the ' restora- tive ' method, and each may be useful in special cases. Thus, in fusiform aneurysm the lumen of the vessel cannot be restored, and the obliterative method must be employed; while in a sacculated aneurysm the mouth of the sac involves only a small part of the arterial wall, and the aneurysm may, therefore, not only be cured, but the lumen of the vessel sometimes reconstituted by the restorative method. The hrst step in both forms of the operation is to control the circula- tion through the aneurysm completely ; unless this can be done the operation is so difficult as to be almost impracticable. When possible, Esmarch's bandage should be employed, as it commands the blood-supply completely, so that there can be no bleeding, even if vessels are given off from the sac. If the aneurysm be too high up in a limb for the bandage to be used, it wiU be necessary to expose the main artery above and below the sac, and control the circulation through it with a temporary ligature or with a Crile's clamp. The latter is, perhaps, the more useful, as it is not only easy to apply, but its pressure is uniform, whereas a temporary hgature may be held either too tightly or too loosely. When Fig. 66.—Chile's Clamp for Temporary HvEmostasis. The blades should be sheathed in rubber tubing. the blades of the clamps, which should be sheathed with rubber, are in position, they should be screwed down very slowly until the pulse in the vessel below disappears. The aneurysm should be exposed by an incision made in the line of the artery. The soft parts should not be separated from the sac, and only important anatomical structures should be avoided as the incision is deepened. The sac is then incised from end to end in the long axis of the tumour, the clot turned out and the cut edges of the sac fully retracted, so as to enable the surgeon to get a good view of the interior of the aneurysm. The number of openings is noted ; in a fusiform aneurysm two circular orifices are seen, one at the upper and one at the lower end, while in the sacculated form the orifice is single and usually ovoid. When branches are given off from the part of the artery involved in the sac, there will be additional openings. The Obliterative Suture.—Any clot adhering to the inner lining is removed with a piece of sponge or gauze from the neighbourhood of the orifices of communication between the sac and the vessel. Each orifice is then closed by a series of sutures inserted as shown in Fig. 67. Chromicised catgut is probably the best suture material, as it holds firmly and long enough for union to occirr, and is eventually