AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 350 motion may be commenced ; passive movements of the elbow and wrist should be practised after the first fortnight. Of Fracture beloiv the Insertion of the Pronator teres.—The forearm should be \mt up at right angles in a position midway between pronation and supination. The best splint is an external angular one, moulded to the arm and forearrn and surrounding the limb almost completel^^ It may be made of poroplastic or plaster of Paris, and should extend from the axilla above to the metacarpal bones below, but the fingers should be left free. An ordinary wooden internal angular splint with a straight splint over the posterior surface of the forearm may be used in default of a moulded one. FRACTURE OF BOTH BONES OF THE FOREARM. This may occur from indirect violence, as in a fall upon the out- stretched hand, or from direct injury. The displacement is generally only slight and is influenced largely by the force producing the fracture. The fracture of the radius is often oblique, and there may be a good deal of over-riding of the fragments. TREATMENT.—There are two important points to remember in the treatment of these fractures in the middle of the forearm. In the first place, it is in this situation that ununited fracture of the radius is fairly common, and this no doubt results from want of proper fixation of the elbow, the movements of pronation and supination being insuffi- ciently guarded against. In the second place, there is a tendency for the four fractured surfaces to be drawn towards one another, and union may actually take place between them, with complete loss of pronation and supination. Non-union is avoided by fixing the forearm so that pronation and supination are impossible. Fusion of the fractured ends may be prevented by avoiding all lateral pressure on the bones after proper coaptation. An anaesthetic should always be given before reducing the fracture ; this enables the fragments to be got into better position, and ensures their keeping in place until the splints have been applied. The next important point is the determination of the position in which the forearm shall be put up. This depends upon the situation of the fracture in the radius. When the fracture is above the insertion of the pronator radii teres, the forearm must be fully supinated, and an anterior angular and a posterior straight splint should be applied. When the fracture is below this point, the limb should be placed midway between pronation and supination, and the moulded splint or the two straight wooden splints, recommended for fracture of the radius alone {vide supra), should be emploj'ed. If wooden splints be used, their width should be somewhat greater than the transverse diameter of the forearm, so that the bandage fixing them