487 METHODS OF AMPUTATING the muscles is greatly facilitated by ihis method of dividing the skin, and there is no difficulty in retracting the flaps. The muscles are divided by a series of circular sweeps of the knife as for the ordinary circular operation (see Fig. 216). Retractors.—In the circular method the retraction of the muscles is often difficult, especially in a conical limb like the thigh, and there is some danger of wounding the assistant's fingers unless mechanical means of retracting the muscles be employed. A simple retractor can be extemporised from a broad piece of sterilised bandage or muslin split longitudinally down the centre for about half its length (see Fig. 217, A); the two tails thus formed are applied one on either side of the bone, and an assistant retracts the soft parts by seizing the two tails with one hand and the undivided end with the other (see Fig. 217, C). A similar effect can be produced by laying a piece of ordinary bandage on either side of the bone, crossing the ends of the two pieces and making traction upon them. When the limb has two parallel bones the retractor may con- veniently take the form shown in Fig. 217, B ; the muslin is split into three tails, the centre one being passed between the two bones, and the lateral ones outside them. Cases Suitable for this Method.—^The modified circular method is very useful in the upper extremity. Here the length of limb that can be preserved is very important, and it is no drawback to have the cicatrix lying directly over the ends of the bone ; on the contrary, this may be actually desirable. In the lower extremity it is generally inadmissible to have the cicatrix over the end of the bone, except possibly in cases of amputation through the shaft of the femur where the pressure of an artiiicial limb is borne upon the pelvis and not on the end of the stump ; in all amputations below this the method is generally modified by maldng one of the flaps longer than the other. As a rule the anterior flap is longer than the posterior, so that the cicatrix lies well behind the end of the bone. THE ' MIXED FLAP ' METHOD. In the so-called ' mixed flap ' method the circular division of the muscles is also abandoned. Two flaps are made, generally of unequal length, the commonest being a long anterior and a short posterior flap. The first two inches or so of the longer flap should consist merely of skin, subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia ; but as the flap is dissected up above this point, the knife is made 10 take up a steadily increasing thickness of muscle, so that, when the point is reached at which it is proposed to divide the bone, the muscle is divided right down to that sti-ucture (see Fig. 218). In the shorter flap it is well to take up only skin, subcutaneous tissue, and deep fascia for the first two inches or more, and then to cut through the muscles more or less directly down to the bone. There is no need to take up the muscle gradually as in the