AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 328 COMBINED FRACTURE AND DISLOCATION. Dislocation of the slioulder is not infrequently combined with frac- ture of the surgical neck of the humerus. TREATMENT.—The general rule of treatment up to the present time has been that if the liead of the bone cannot be got into position by manipulation under an anjesthetic, the fracture should be put up with the lower fragment in a hue with the displaced head and upper fragment, and that when consolidation has occurred, a second attempt should be made to reduce the dislocation. But it is not only difficult, but dangerous to attempt to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder that has remained un- reduced for even a few weeks. It is certain that by the time the fracture has united firmly enough to permit sufficient force to be applied to reduce the dislocation, reduction would be impossible, on account of the changes in the cap.sule and adhesions between the head of the bone and the surrounding structures. Hence it is far better practice to cut down, replace the head of the bone at once and suture the rent in the capsule, and then fasten the fractured ends together. The steps of the operation for reduction of the dislocation are described in connection with disloca- tions (see Vol. III.). The most efficacious method in this particular condition seems to be to make traction upon the limb vertically up- wards, while the surgeon manipulates the head of the bone through the axilla. FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE HUMERUS. CAUSES.—The shaft of the humerus is most frequently broken just below the insertion of the deltoid, but fracture by direct or indirect violence may occur at any part. The most common cause is a direct blow upon the arm, but the fracture may also result from falls on the hand or elbow. DISPLACEMENT.—The displacement varies according to the obliquity and situation of the fracture and the nature of the force pro- ducing it. If the bone be broken just above the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment is usually drawn inwards and forwards by the pectoral and other muscles, whilst the lower is pulled upwards and outwards, and the elbow is directed away from the side, so that there is a marked depression just above the insertion of the deltoid. When the fracture takes place below the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment is usually abducted and somewhat rotated outwards, whilst the lower fragment is drawn upwards to the inner side of the ppuer one. COMPLICATIONS.—These fractures are usually unaccompanied by complications, but sometimes the musculo-spiral nerve may be injured at the time of the fracture, or it may become involved subsequently in the callus ; the result is paralysis of the extensors of the hand.