528 AMPUTATIONS the inferior angle of the scapula (see Fig. 241) ; the assistant, meanwhile, manipulates the arm so as to facilitate the fashioning of the flap. This incision is now deepened by dividing the muscles close to the humerus, and a flap of skin and muscle is turned inwards so as to expose the contents of the axilla, which consist of the vessels already divided above, and of fat and glands, which should be stripped down in one mass so that they can be removed along with the upper extremity. The arm and shoulder are next rotated outwards so as to expose the ventral aspect of the scapula, and the serratus magnus and the rhomboids are divided near their insertion into the posterior border of the scapula ; the levator anguli scapulce is similarly treated. The posterior scapular artery, if not already secured, will be divided here and may be clamped. Raising the Posterior Flap.—The patient is now turned over upon the sound side, the arm pulled forcibly across the chest by an assistant, and the posterior incision, which runs from the extreme outer end of the incision over the clavicle to the inferior angle of the scapula by the shortest route, is marked out. As this incision is deepened and the flap is turned back, the few remaining muscular fibres are divided, and the extremity is removed. Although the main vessels have been already tied, numerous small points will need to be clamped and tied. The greatest difficulty is met with at the posterior border of the scapula when the posterior scapular artery has not been secured in the first stage of the operation, and attention should be directed to this region after the extremity has been removed. The best plan is to pack the whole raw area immediately the extremity has been severed, and to have pressure exerted by an assistant; the packing is then removed gradually and the vessels picked up. Before the wound is stitched up, any diseased glands left behind should be removed. A large drainage tube is inserted at the lower angle of the wound, and the dressings are fixed in position by a broad sheet of muslin passing around the trunk with an aperture through which the sound arm is passed. The drainage tube may be left out about the fourth day, and the stitches taken out about the tenth. REMOVAL OF THE SCAPULA ALONE. It may sometimes be possible to remove the scapula alone and leave the extremity intact, and thus retain a useful arm. In some rare cases, partial removal of the scapula may be practised, but, as the operation is usually done for malignant tumours of the bone, it is, as a rule, not advis- able to leave behind any portion, except possibly part of the acromion. This'structure is of importance, as its retention materially increases the usefulness of the limb by facilitating the attachment of an artificial hmb. Removal of the scapula alone is more difficult than removal of the entire upper extremity, the points of greatest difficulty being the severing