POPLITEAL ANEURYSM 239 owing to the collateral circulation being interfered with by the clots in- filtrating the tissues around, and partly on account of the risk of suppura- tion in the limb which resulted from septic infection of the clot. At the present time this latter risk is avoided by adequate antiseptic precautions, and the clots may therefore be safely turned out; the pressure upon the collateral circulation is thereby relieved, and the risk of gangrene from this cause avoided. Hence amputation should not be performed in these cases unless it is evident that gangrene has set in. It will often be found that, in spite of ligature of the main artery above and below the aneurysm, oozing still takes place into the sac ; this generally comes from small branches given off from the aneurysm. These must be isolated and occluded, as otherwise considerable bleeding into the cavity may occur, and serious pressure upon the collateral circula- tion, caused by the extravasation of blood, may result. A drainage tube or tubes arc inserted, and the hmb is elevated and watched carefully for signs of gangrene (see p. 237). It is necessary to employ a drainage tube in these cases, because of the oozing that must necessarily occur into the large cavity left. This cavity cannot be obliterated by sponge pressure in the ordinary way, as that would entail a serious risk of gangrene from interference with the collateral circulation. POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. The popliteal artery is one of the most common seats of aneurysm, which is most prone to occur in men whose occupations lead to frequent, rapid, and violent flexion of the knee. In former times it was common in conductors of coaches, and it is also not infrequent in soldiers and sailors. The aneurysm gives rise to difficulty in using the knee, and pain along the course of the nerves, especially the internal popliteal ; it is particularly liable to become ruptured and chffuse from the forcible flexions of the knee. The posterior ligaments of the knee-joint may be eroded and the aneurysm may burst into the articulation, or it may become diffused into the popliteal space itself, or may make its way through the skin over it. TREATMENT.—The procedures employed for the treatment of popliteal aneurysm may be either compression or operation. We have already discussed the relative merits of these two plans, and have described in detail the method of carr5ang out compression, which should be applied to the upper part of the femoral artery (see pp. 231-3). Amongst operative procedures for the cure of popliteal aneurysm, the surgeon has the choice between the old operation of incising the sac and tying the vessel above and below, ligature of the popliteal artery at its commencement, ligature of the femoral artery in Hunter's canal or Scarpa's triangle, excision of the sac, which should only be done when the aneurysm is small and situated in the upper part of the artery, or