ANEURYSM OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY 203 In front are the skin, the cervical fascia, the platysma, the sterno- mastoid, the posterior belly of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid muscle and the deep surface of the parotid gland. The hypoglossal nerve and the occipital artery cross the internal carotid beneath the sterno-mastoid. Separating it from the external carotid are the stylo-glossus and stylo- pharyngeus muscles, theglosso-pharyngeal nerve andthe pharyngeal branch of the vagus, the tip of the styloid process and the stylo-hyoid hgament. Operation.—The position of the patient is the same as for the operation just described [vide supra). The inci- sion is made parallel to and just over the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid, and should be about three inches in length, extending as low as the middle of the thyroid cartilage The platysma and the deep fascia of the neck are divided, the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle is defined, and the ])and of fascia running from it to the angle of the jaw is cut through. The muscle can be drawn outwards with a blunt hook, and the digastric muscle is seen above, with the parotid gland overlap- ping it, and the sterno-mastoid muscle on its outer side, with the spinal acces- sory nerve entering it above whilst the vessels are seen at the bottom of the wound, the external carotid lying in front of, and to the inner side of the internal (see Fig. 78). A careful ex- amination of the vessels should be made to determine which one is giving off branches ; the internal carotid has no branches in the neck. The former vessel must then be drawn inwards. The sheath of the internal carotid is opened towards the inner side and cleared in the usual manner, care being taken not to injure the internal jugular vein which overlaps the artery. The needle is passed from with- out inwards so as to avoid the vein, and care must be taken not to include the vagus nerve. Should the aneurysm not have been injured during the operation, it is unnecessary to incise the sac unless it be of considerable size, and has caused much pain from pressure. In the latter case it is well to open it and clear out the contents, and either to hgature the external carotid beyond the sac and any branches given off from it, or to adopt one form of Matas's operation (see p. 182). Fig. 78.—Ligature of the Right In- ternal Carotid Arterv. On the right the external carotid is retracted from the front of the internal carotid. On the left the sterno- mastoid and the various layers of the cervical fascia are held out of the way by a retractor. The hypoglossal nerve and its descending branch are seen superficial to the vessel.