466 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES CLOTHING. Children should always wear wool next the skin. By Night: A long flannel nightgown, fastened below the feet, and at the wrists and throat. Let them sleep in cots by themselves—never in a draught, or between the window or fireplace and the door. Bedclothes should be warm and light. Keep the window open all night in warm weather. Keep a small fire burning all night in cold weather. By Day : («) A flannel vest, fitting closely round the neck and loosely else- where. All other clothing about the chest should be loose and warm. (&) A well-fitting flannel binder round the belly reaching from just below the hips to the lowest part of the breast bone. (c) Flannel or knitted drawers should always be worn. They may be buttoned on to the binder, to which shoulder-straps should be added. The binder will not then slip up and down. (d) In cold weather, warm stockings or woollen gaiters, reaching to the top of the legs, should be worn. All underclothing as well as bedclothes should be well aired before and after use. Rickety children should be out of doors most of the day in fine weather. If they cannot walk, get a perambulator in which they can lie down flat. Wrap them up well and use as a foot-warmer a strong wine bottle filled with hot water, placed in a thick stocking. They should not be carried in arms, especially by other children. If their backs are growing out, they should be kept always lying flat. A good plan for children with weak backs is to tie them to a small ironing board covered with several layers of house flannel, and carry them on that. Smaller children may be carried on a wicker-basket lid, padded with a folded blanket. Children with bow-legs or knock-knees should not be allowed to stand, walk or crawl. Keep them clean. Wash them all over night and morning with soap and warm water. Dry carefully with a soft warm towel. Then with the open hand chafe and rub the limbs from below upwards until the sldn is rosy. The limbs should be rubbed one by one, the rest being covered meanwhile. The back, if weak, should also be rubbed. Children will not take cold if they are carefully dried, especially the head and ears, and are well warmed after the bath. The only drugs that seem to be of special service are cod-liver oil and phosphorus. Cod-liver oil should always be given in rickets, even when the child seems to be well nourished. The best way to administer it is in one of the practically tasteless emulsions; i the ' A good formula for an emulsion of cod liver oil is the following :—• GENERAL DIRECTIONS. li Sodii Hypophosphitis ( Calcii Hypophosphitis ) Olei Morrhuse Olei Cassis Glycerin! Tragacanthae . Aquam destillatam . ad 3j. aa I gr. q.s.