171 ANEURYSM is that clot forms on the wall, and, as time goes on, becomes decolorised, adherent to the wall, and in part organised. After a time the clot presents a laminated appearance ; this often results from the blood finding its way either between the original layer of clot and the sac wall or into the sub- stance of the white clot. Thus an aneurysm which has existed for any length of time will often contain masses of clot arranged in layers and spoken of as laminated clot ; this clot usually consists of alternate layers of red and white clot. Coincidently with the formation of laminated clot in the aneurysm, the wall of the aneurysm becomes steadily dilated, and the surrounding tissues partly atrophy as the result of pressure, and partly become condensed as the result of inflammation. It is important to remember that the endarteritis which leads to the formation of an aneurysm is not limited to the actual spot at which the aneurysm occurs, but is usually diffused over the wall for a considerable distance, and in the immediate vicinity of the aneurysm there may be, and frequently is, considerable general dilatation of the vessel. Aneurysms are not infrequently multiple and symmetrical. As a result of the aneurysmal dilatation, the flow of blood through the artery beyond the aneurysm is delayed and sometimes considerably interfered with. As a consequence, branches which come off above the aneurysm become dilated, more blood flows through them, and their com- munications with branches below the aneurysm also become enlarged ; in this way a free collateral circulation is established. This is of import- ance both with regard to treatment and also with regard to the risks of gangrene, should the aneurysm become diffuse. Another condition, which, however, hardly comes under the notice of the surgeon, seeing that it is limited to the aorta, is that known as dissecting aneurysm, in which the blood burrows between the external and middle coats of the artery for some distance and then finds its way back again into the general blood-stream at a point lower down in the wall of the vessel. RESULTS.—Sponianeous Cure.—In some cases the formaiionof clot may go on until the aneurysmal sac becomes entirely filled up and a spontaneous cure results. Such an event is, however, comparatively rare. After the aneurysm becomes filled with clot, organisation of that clot goes on until ultimately only a fibrous nodule remains at the seat of the former aneurysm. An aneurysm is cured when the sac is filled by a mass of fibrous tissue; the coagulation of the blood is only a stage in the process of cure. Perhaps the most common way in which spontaneous cure arises is when the sac bulges upw^ards along the course of the artery, and presses upon the latter above the aneurj'sm and diminishes, or, indeed, altogether arrests the flow of blood through it; the result is that the cavity becomes completely filled with clot and ultimately obliterated. Spontaneous cure of an aneurj'sm may also result from suppuraiioii of tJic sac and the discharge of its contents. This