AMPUTATIONS 542 the natural movements of the knee-joint can be utilised; hence the longer the limb the better the leverage that the patient can bring to bear upon the artificial limb. lister's amputation through the leg. The best amputation through the lower third of the leg is that described by Lord Lister in Holmes' System of Surgery, Vol. III. p. 717 (see Fig. 249). His descrip- tion is as follows :— ' The diameter of the limb having been ascertained by spanning it, a straight longi- tudinal incision of that length is made at the inner side of the leg, and on the outer aspect another similar incision directly over the fibula and extending about an inch higher up. The lower ends of these incisions are connected by cutting across the front of the limb in a direction transverse in the main, but rounded off where it joins the lateral lines. The knife is next carried round the back of the limb to the bone from the upper end of the internal incision to a point exactly opposite on the outer side, which wiU be about an inch below the upper end of the outer incision, the instrument being carried in a line slightly convex downwards so as to form a very short posterior flap. The anterior flap is then raised in the manner above mentioned (by peeling up the tissues with the thumb) including everything in front of the bones and interosseous mem- brane, after which the tibia and fibula are Fig. 249.-lister's Amputation cleared as high as the Icvel of the upper THROUGH THE Leg. The vertical in- ^ _ _ '^'^ cision over the fibula extends about end of the outer iucision, the fiugcr-tip being an inch higher up the limb than the t.i- ,i , ,- , corresponding one on the inner side. still uscd m detachmg the parts antcrior to the interosseous membrane. In order to avoid splintering the fibula, it is best to saw both bones at the same time, and to finish the fibula before the tibia. The sharp angle of the spine of the tibia, being apt to cause ulceration of the skin over it, should be removed ; and the most convenient way of doing this is to commence with sawing obliquely for a short distance from a point about half an inch above the place where the bones are to be divided trans- versely (see Fig. 227, A). ' Supposing effectual antiseptic treatment be employed, the cutaneous margins of the flaps may be stitched very closely, except at the upper