AFFECTIONS OF NERVES 138 make a flap, and turn it upwards, downwards, or to one side, so that the scar shall not lie over the hne of the nerve itself ; thus there will be no risk of entanglement of the nerve in the scar tissue. This is, of course, not always possible where there is already a cicatrix present. EXPOSURE OF THE MEDIAN NERVE. It may be necessary to expose this nerve, for the purpose of either stretching it or suturing it after division. In the upper arm it is readily accessible ; it lies on the outer side of the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm, crosses in front of it to its inner side about the centre and remains on its inner side in the lower third. It is rarely necessary to expose the nerve in the upper part of forearm, as it lies between the superficial and deep flexor muscles, and thus generally escapes injury. The usual situation, in which this nerve has to be exposed, is the lower third of the forearm or the front of the wrist. In the Arm,—The nerve is exposed by an incision similar to that required for ligature of the brachial artery (see p. 218), and the steps of the operation are precisely similar. In the Upper Third of the Forearm.—Here the nerve lies on the inner side of the radial artery, and dips between the two heads of the pronator radii teres. An incision similar to that for hgature of the radial artery in the upper third is made (see p. 220), and the pronator radii teres is exposed where it crosses the nerve. If a few fibres of the muscle internal to the artery be incised, or if the muscle be pulled forcibly inwards, the nerve is easily reached. On the Front of the Wrist.—The nerve is exposed by making an incision an inch and a half in length, parallel to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis and somewhat to its inner side. The deep fascia is divided and the tendons are pulled aside, when the median nerve will come into view between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum. EXPOSURE OF THE ULNAR NERVE. In the upper third of the arm the nerve passes between the axillary artery and the vein, after which it leaves the vessel and pierces the internal inter-muscular septum to reach the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna ; in this part of its course it is accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. Subsequently it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and, running down beneath that muscle and upon the flexor profundus digitorum, it reaches the wrist. At the junction of the upper with the middle third of the forearm, it approaches the inner side of the ulnar artery and runs down along it to the wrist. At the front of the wrist it lies close to the radial border of the pisiform bone, where it divides into two terminal branches.