FRACTURES OF THE LOWER END OF THE FEMUR 393 radiogram should be taken immediately, in order to see whether the joint surfaces are in proper alignment ; if they are not, operation is absolutely necessary. The incision should be made at the side of the joint, avoiding the synovial cavity if possible, and the fragment is got into position and fixed by pegs or long screws driven through the condyle, or by Lane's plates. If there be much efTusion, it is well to make an incision into the joint, wash out the clots, and close it again without a drainage tube. LInless operation be performed within a very short time of the injury, it will be extremely difficult to get the fragments into position. After operation the limb should be put in a Croft's splint ; massage and passive movement are begun after about ten days, and the splint is kept on for at least four or five weeks. T-SHAPED FRACTURE INTO THE KNEE-JOINT. This is a severer form of the preceding injury and corresponds to a T-shaped fracture of the lower end of the humerus. TREATMENT.—It is scarcely possible to obtain satisfactory move- ment of the knee in tliese cases without operation. An incision should be made on each side of the joint, the condj'les exposed, manipulated into position, and pegged to one another by means of long ivory pegs or screws (see p. 305). Before drilling the condyles for this purpose, the finger should be introduced into the joint so as to ascertain that the two condyles are in position. All blood-clot is washed out of the cavity of the joint and any small loose fragments taken away. After the condyles have been united to each other, the articular end of the bone is secured to the shaft by means of plates. The operation is difficult, as satisfactory access to the line of fracture is hard to obtain without opening the joint freeh'. There need be no hesitation in doing what is necessary, how- ever, as the result is sure to be very poor if accurate adaptation be not obtained. Aftcr-ircatinent.—This is similar in all respects to that advised for the preceding group of cases {vide supra). In spite of early operation and accurate adaptation of the fractured surfaces, the prognosis as regards restoration of function in the knee-joint is not very good, owing to the severe damage inflicted upon the structures in the neighbourhood of the joint and the adhesions that are likely to result. Special attention must be paid to the efficient performance of massage and passive motion from an early stage, while at tlie same time all movement about the frac- ture is avoided (see p. 280).