THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES weights are attached to it, the pulley being so arranged that the cord and weights hang clear of the bed. The weight employed will depend upon the muscularity of the limb and the degree of contraction of the muscles ; it usually varies from four to eight pounds. The apparatus should be examined from time to time to see that the strapping does not slip ; it generally requires to be renewed every ten days. It is important to see that the toes do not become pointed ; in order to avoid this, the metatarsal bones should be supported by a sling, the ends of which are pinned to the bandage around the leg, and a cradle should be employed in order to keep off the pressure of the bed-clothes. Further, it is im- portant to see that no outward rotation of the limb occurs unless in so far as that may be necessary to bring the two fragments into accurate Fig. 126.—Weight Extension applied to the Lower Limb. The limb, with the stirrup applied as shown in Fig. 125, is extended by means of a cord passing over the pulley shown in Fig. 123. The foot of the bed is raised on blocks to provide counter-extension. The toes should be kept elevated by means of a sling passed beneath them, and having the ends pinned to the strapping around the leg, as described in the text. adjustment. This can be prevented by a sandbag along each side of the limb. Counter-extension may be exerted by raising the foot of the bed on blocks, so that the trunk tends to slide down towards the head of the bed (see Fig. 126). In the case of adults in whom considerable weight is employed, well-fitting spats are often more useful than strapping. They should extend well up the leg and, if necessary, should be padded so that no undue pressure falls upon the dorsum of the foot. Straps are sewn to the lower edges and are attached to the stirrup (see p. 276) by buckles. Vertical Extension.—Vertical e.xtension of the limb is a very useful method of treating fractures of the femur in young children. The stirrup is applied as before and the cord fastened to it is secured to a bag