AMPUTATIONS 522 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER ARM. Amputation in this situation may be required for extensive injuries to the forearm, for tumour, or for tuberculous or other disease of the elbow- joint not suitable for excision. It is important to retain as much of the humerus as possible, so as to give sufficient leverage for an artificial limb, and, therefore, the section of the bone must be made as low down as is consistent with entire removal of the disease. Modified Circular Method.—This is practically the operation of choice for amputation in the upper arm, since in it there is the least sacrifice of bone. The exact position of the flaps, whether antero-posterior, lateral or irregular, is not a matter of great consequence ; probably antero- posterior ones are best on the whole. The old operations by transfixion and the formation of long flaps necessitate the removal of an undue length of bone, and have therefore nothing whatever to recommend them. For a description of the modified circular method see p. 486. In amputating through the upper arm the vessels requiring ligature are few. The brachial artery, its superior and inferior profunda branches, with possibly a few muscular twigs, are all that will give any trouble. The best means for preventing haemorrhage in amputations high up in the arm will be found on p. 494. DISARTICULATION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. A large variety of methods of amputating through the shoulder-joint have been described, the most popular until recently being that by means of the deltoid flap. Here again, however, irregular operations of all kinds will be the most useful in actual practice, as the operation is usually called for in cases where it is difficult to obtain flaps by the orthodox methods. When a set operation is possible, probably the best and most satisfactory in its results is Spence's operation (see Fig. 238, A). Spence describes his operation as follows :— Spence's Operation.—' Supposing the right arm to be the subject of amputation. The arm being slightly abducted and the head of the humerus rotated outwards, with a broad straight bistoury, I cut down upon the inner aspect of the head of the humerus, immediately external to the coracoid process, and carry the incision down through the clavi- cular fibres of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles till I reach the humeral attachment of the latter muscle which I divide. I then with a gentle curve carry my incision across and fairly through the lower fibres of the deltoid towards, but not through the posterior border of the axUla, Unless the textures be much torn, I next mark out the line of the lower part of the inner section by carrying an incision through the skin and fat only from the point where my straight incision terminated across the inside of the arm to meet the incision at the outer part. This insures accuracy