TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES 301 the seat of fracture. Care must be taken not to employ too great pressure, as otherwise ulceration will occur beneath the elastic bandage. When the union is fairly firm, it is best to administer an anaesthetic and to straighten the limb forcibly, after which the limb is put up in plaster of Paris. Forcible bending of the bone under an anaesthetic is usually necessary if more than a month has elapsed since the fracture ; before that, elastic pressure will probably suffice. When consolidation has occurred with angular deformity, the bone nlust be re-fractured before it can be got into position ; this usually requires a cutting operation. When the fracture is situated about the centre of the shaft of tlie bone in adults, it may be possible to re-fracture the bone by means of a powerful instrument such as Butcher's osteoclast. This method, however, is uncertain; it may cause serious bruising of the soft parts, the fracture it produces may be comminuted, and, in children, the epiphysis may separate before the union gives way, especially if the fracture be near the articular end. Hence, when the union is strong enough to resist re-fracture by means of the hands alone, the fracture should be cut down upon and the union divided with a chisel or saw. In an oblique fracture with one end overlapping the other, an operation of this kind is essential if a good result is to be obtained. Definite rules for operations of this nature cannot be formulated, because everything depends upon the nature of the deformity and the bone affected; but the following points should be borne in mind as they apply to all operations of this kind. These operations try the surgeon's power of keeping the wound aseptic as much as any operations in surgery. The prolonged handling and bruising of important and deep-seated structures that are unavoidable during the manipulation of the fractured ends, give rise to a wound that is prone to become septic unless the most rigid asepsis prevails. Should sepsis supervene, the results are ajjt to be very disastrous. Division of the bone should be effected with as little disturbance of the parts as possible ; it is best effected with a chisel and hammer if possible. It is important to ascertain the nature of the line of fracture by means of the X-rays before operation, in order that the incision may be so planned as to approach and divide the union with the least possible damage to the soft parts. Free incisions should always be made, so that the surgeon can see exactly what he is doing, and is not hampered by want of room. In oblique fractures the great difficulty is the shrinking of the soft parts, and after the fracture has been divided, it will be necessary to exert powerful extension, either by the help of an assistant or by means of pulleys, and to divide cautiously all tight bands which interfere with the proper reduction of the fracture, taking care, of course, not to divide important structures, such as large vessels or nerves. In all oblique fractures, and in every case in which there is the least