485 METHODS OF AMPUTATING stripped off the periosteum, and the latter then separated from the bone. Both should be pushed up off the bone together or the blood-supply of the periosteum will be damaged. The whole of the soft structures are then retracted for a little distance, and the bone is cleared and sawn at a point well above the division of the muscles (see Fig. 214). The result is that when the structures are allowed to fall into position, the stump presents somewhat the appearance of a hollow cone, at the apex of which lies the divided end of the bone, the base being formed by the circular cuff of skin. The chief merit of this method is its rapidity, but it possesses another B a Fig. 216.—^TiiE Modified Circular Method of Amputation. The dotted line ar in A is the ordinary incision in the circular method, while the thick line abc shows the modified circular incision. The skin flaps are shown in /J, as well as the circular division of the muscles. merit that is of great importance in some cases, viz., that it involves the least sacrifice of the soft parts of any amputation, and therefore that it permits the limb to be removed nearest to the damaged part if the damage affect the circumference of the limb equally. On the other hand, it possesses many objections. In the first place, it is difficult to perform in a conical limb, for the retraction of the different layers is not easily effected; and if the cuff of skin has to be dissected up and turned back, the operation ceases to be a rapid one. The retraction of the soft parts also may be much hindered by matting together of the tissues as a result of old inflammation. The cicatrix must necessarily lie over the end of the bone, and is generally puckered. The amputation, therefore, can never be used for cases in which pressure has to be borne upon the end of the stump. Moreover, unless the operation be done with considerable care, the skin covering is by no means abundant, and there is considerable tension upon the edges.