519 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FOREARM AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FOREARM. This is the amputation most commonly required for tuberculous disease of the wrist-joint, as it is rarely advisable to amputate through the joint itself and then saw off or gouge out the diseased areas in the lower end of the radius. Modified Circular Method.—The best amputation is the modified circular form with equal anterior and posterior flaps. The scar lies directly over the end of the bones, which is the seat of least pressure, because the pressure exerted by an artificial limb upon the stump must necessarily fall upon either its anterior or its posterior aspect, and not upon the end of it, as is the case in the lower extremity. A further advantage of the modified circular opera- tion is that the bones may be divided on a lower level than in any other operation. The flaps seldom have to be more than an inch and a half long, and thus the amputation can be performed close to the seat of disease, and yet sufficient covering for the bones can be obtained. This gives the patient the longest possible stump—a point of importance in the adaptation of an artificial limb. In some cases of injury it may be possible, by employing either a long anterior or a long posterior flap or irregular flaps, to divide the bone on a lower level than would be necessary if equal antero-posterior flaps were made. If this be the case the latter method should be abandoned in order to secure a longer stump. The limb should be abducted to a right angle with the trunk, held horizontally and fully supinated, and the surgeon, standing to the patient's right of the limb to be operated upon, marks the proposed point of division of the bones by placing the left forefinger and thumb upon them, one on either side of the limb. The knife is then entered about half an inch below one of these points, and is made to trace a short anterior flap terminating at a corresponding point on the opposite side. A similar posterior flap is then marked out (see Fig. 236). The length of the two flaps combined should be equal to slightly more than the antero-posterior diameter of the limb at the point at which the bones are to be divided, the additional length being required to allow for retraction of the flap. These flaps are dissected up to just beyond the level of their bases, and then the muscles are divided by a series of circular sweeps, and the peri- osteum is divided on the same level as the muscles, and peeled up by a raspatory to the point at which the saw is to be applied. If the amputation I'lC. 2^6. — Modified Circular Amputation through the fore- ARM. The flaps are an- tcro - posterior and of equal leugth. The dotted line marks the point of section of the bones.