AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS 100 in detail that appropriate for rupture of the tendo AchilHs, the ligamentum patellae, the biceps flexor cubiti, and the plantaris. Rupture of the Tendo Achillis.—In rupture of the tendo Achillis, treatment by position is usually sufficient. A leather strap, furnished with a buckle or ring, or a band of strapping is secured around the thigh. A loop is fastened to this opposite the centre of the posterior aspect of the limb, and a slipper with a loop attached to its heel is put on the foot. A piece of elastic bandage or india-rubber tubing is attached to these loops and thus the heel is drawn up and the knee is flexed (see Fig. 32) ; the divided ends of the tendon are thus brought into fairly good apposition, though they are not absolutely in contact, and union occurs satisfactorily. This apparatus must be kept on continuously for about a fortnight, and then the tension of the elastic should be diminished and the patient encouraged to move the ankle joint. The appa- ratus may be left off in about three weeks, but the patient should not be allowed to stand on the foot until five weeks have elapsed from the time of the injury. At the end of the third, however, he should be encouraged to move the foot, while a certain amount of passive movement may be practised with the object of preventing adhesion of the newly-formed tendon to the surrounding parts. After five weeks he may be allowed to walk about, at first with the assistance of a crutch or stick. In many cases complete restoration of function occurs without any massage being required. Non-union may follow rupture of the tendo Achillis, either because the case has not been treated, or because treatment has failed to secure a good result and, therefore, it may be necessary to operate in order to obtain restoration of function. The operation should be on the lines laid down for the union of tendons after division in an open wound (see p. 93). As there is no scar here, it is well to use a curved incision so that the incision in the skin is as far away as possible from the line of union in the tendon. In the case of the tendo Achillis, a curved incision is made with the convexity extending well over to the outer side of the limb, the centre Fig. 32.—Rupture of the Tendo Achillis TREATED BY POSITION. Should the thigh-band tend to slip, as it often will from wasting of the muscles, it may be kept in position by fastening it to a band round the waist.