4o8 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES but, if possible, the wire should be entered further from the fractured edge than in a recent case. The approximation of the fragments will be facilitated by elevating the leg and thus relaxing the quadriceps ; in very bad cases it is only by so doing that the fragments can be brought together even after division of the muscle. After-treatment.—The limb is placed in a well-padded Croft or Gooch's splint, and laid upon a high inclined plane for a few days ; after two or three days the elevation is diminished, and in about ten days the limb can be allowed to lie flat on the bed. At the end of a week, the stitches are removed, a collodion dressing is applied and the splint left off. It is inadvisable to begin passive movement as early as is done in recent fractures on account of the division of the muscle, which requires at least three weeks for proper union. In the meantime, however, the patient should keep up a certain amount of movement by gently moving the knee in bed, and massage should be employed; at the end of three weeks passive motion may be definitely begun. The result is generally fairly satisfactory ; the patient rarely gets movement beyond a right angle, even if he gets as much as that ; but still he is in a much better condition than he was before, with a firm limb and a fair range of movement. Apparatus.—When no operation is i^ermitted, all that can be done is to fix on a knee-cap, which keeps down the upper fragment, holds the knee stiff, and so gives the patient fair support. COMMINUTED FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. When the fracture is due to direct violence, such as a blow upon the knee, the line of fracture is usually starred or comminuted, and there is not the same tendency to separation as in the ordinary transverse fracture due to muscular action. It is not uncommon to find the periosteum more or less intact, and the fragments are thus held together by it. TREATMENT.— If the limb be put at rest on a splint for three or four weeks, and massage and careful passive motion employed for another three or four, bony union and good movement generally result. If, however, the fragments be separated, or do not lie at the same level, it is well to cut down on them and bring them together as for the transverse form of fracture. Thin wire should be used when the fragmentb are small, and especially when the fracture is a vertical one, as it will have to bear only a slight strain. A splint should be applied and kept on for about a fortnight; the patient shoald be kept in bed for another two or three weeks, the limb being massaged in bed and gentle passive motion being practised. COMPOUND FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. This is comparatively rare; it may, however, be the result of direct injury and is then generally starred. TREATMENT.—This must be primarily the treatment of an injury