243 POPLITEAL ANEURYSM is pulled downwards and backwards, the tendon of the adductor will be evident, with the hamstring tendons lying behind it. The space between the tendon of the adductor magnus and the hamstrings must be opened, the latter pulled downwards and backwards, and the tendon of the ad- ductor pulled outwards towards the bone. This is facilitated by flexing the knee, when the fmger introduced along the posterior surface of the adductor magnus will feel the popliteal artery just after it has passed through the opening in the muscle (see Fig. 104), with the vein to its outer side ; the popliteal nerve is some distance from it. Tlie sheath of the vessel is opened and the needle is passed from without inwards. The operation has the advantage that it gives a better collateral circulation than when the artery is tied higher up ; the risk of gangrene is therefore diminished. It occasionally happens, especially after pro.ximal ligature at some distance above the sac, that pulsation returns after a few days and the aneurysm continues to increase. Under such circumstances amputation used to be recommended, but now that suppuration can be readily avoided tlie best procedure is to perform either Matas's or the old opera- tion {vide infra). Should the aneurysm become inflamed, should suppura- tion around the aneurysm occur, or should the latter threaten to burst through the skin, one of these operations should be performed in pre- ference to amputation. Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Popliteal Artery.—This is maintained by the superior articular arteries, the anastomotica magna, and tlie descending branch of the external circumflex anastomosing with the inferior articular arteries and the anterior tibial recurrent. Muscular branches will also aid in maintaining the circulation. The Old Operation.—The old operation is somewhat difficult in popliteal aneurysm, chiefly on account of the relation of the popliteal vein and the internal popliteal nerve to the artery, and the adhesions between these structures and the sac. The vein and nerve are often considerably displaced by the enlargement of the sac, so that their position is difficult to gauge ; hence the old operation is generally restricted to those cases in which the aneurysm has become diffuse. A tourniquet is applied around the thigh, and the patient is rolled over almost mto the prone position with the affected limb undermost. A free incision is made over the centre of the popliteal space behind, and the internal popliteal nerve is looked for and pulled aside (see Fig. 105). The popliteal vein is identified next and should also be dis])laced to one side. Should it be difficult to define the vein clearly, an opening should be made into the sac towards the inner side, so as to avoid it if possible. The sac is then incised freely, the clots turned out, and the artery tied abo\ e and below the orifice of communication. This can be done more easily if a bougie be introduced through the orifice of the vessel so as to distend it ; it can then be felt, and there is less likelihood R 2