TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES (12) inclusion of nerves in the callus ; (13) adhesion of muscles or tendons to the fractured ends ; and (14) swelling of the limb, on using it after union of the fracture. CEcIema, Primtiis, and Vesication.—The occurrence of oedema and the formation of vesicles over the region of the fracture are com- monest when the injury is due to direct violence, and when there has been much extravasation of blood. These conditions are predisposed to by undue mobility of the fractured ends and by undue pressure exerted by splints or bandages. Immediate reduction of the fracture and immobilisation of the limb in a slightly elevated position to favour the return of blood are essential. If there be much tension of the skin and a tendency to vesication, the splint should be arranged so that the affected part is accessible, and evaporating lotions, such as spirit or lead and opium lotion (see Vol. I. p. g), should be applied. An ice-bag is often used, but great care must be taken in employing it on account of the depressing effect of the cold upon the already damaged soft parts, which may become gangrenous, and thus a simple fracture may be converted into a compound one. If used at all, it should only be in vigorous healthy subjects ; lint should be interposed between the skin and the ice-bag, and the condition of the parts frequently inspected. If the itching be troublesome, the skin should be dusted over with boric acid in powder (either alone or with an equal quantity of starch) and the vesicles should be pricked as they form and the fluid let out ; the epithelial covering of the vesicles should not be removed. If the skin over the area of the fracture becomes eczematous, diacliylon or dilute boric ointment, or a dusting powder consisting of equal parts of o.xide of zinc and boric acid may be applied. Sometimes the tension is so great as to threaten gangrene of the skin ; this is shown by increasing duskiness, coldness, and anaesthesia of the part. Gangrene may sometimes be avoided if free incisions be made through the skin into the subcutaneous tissues, so as to let out the blood and the inflammatory effusion and thus to relie\'e the tension. If incisions be made in this way, they will probably convert a simple fracture into a compound one, and great care must therefore be taken to secure asepsis. The subsequent treatment wiU be that of compoimd fracture. Tlirombosis.—This is a rare complication, and is often unavoidable. It may occur either at the time of the accident from injury to the veins, or may ensue later as a result of phlebitis. As a rule it is of little im- portance ; at most it leads to some oedema of the limb below the seat of fracture. In rare cases, however, it may extend into the larger veins and interfere with the circulation, or portions of clot may be detached and give rise to emboli elsewhere. The limb should be raised so as to favour the return of blood, tight bandages above the seat of fracture should be a\"oided, and the patient