254 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES and keeping the fragments in proper position. When, on the other hand, the fracture is caused by direct violence, it is usually transverse or comminuted, and there is often considerable injury to the soft parts in the neighbourhood of the fracture as well. Fractures from indirect violence may be produced in several ways. It is very common for the ends of the bone to be compressed between two opposing forces, and for fracture to take place at some intermediate point from a bending of the bone which is carried beyond its limit of elasticity ; in the long bones the resulting fracture usually occurs at the weakest part of the bone, namely, the junction of the expanded articular end with the comparatively narrow shaft. In other cases, fractures by indirect violence may be brought about by unduly forcible or irregular muscular contraction, or by muscular contraction of normal strength in those who suffer from some pathological condition of the bones. Fracture of the patella is an example of fracture resulting from irregular and forcible contraction of the quadriceps extensor when the knee is bent, the patella being snapped across the condyles of the femur as a stick is broken across the knee. Predisposing Causes.—There are numerous pathological conditions which produce a liability to fracture, and so act as predisposing causes. It will suffice to enumerate the most important. The commonest are new growths of bone, especially secondary carcinoma, and the osseous changes associated with locomotor ataxia. In addition there are senile changes in the bone structure, fragilitas ossium, mollifies ossium, scurvy- rickets, insanity, atrophy of bone, and the inflammatory conditions that lead to extensive necrosis or rarefying osteitis. When a fracture has been produced by comparatively slight violence, one of these causes should be carefully searched for, and, if found, appropriately treated. CLASSIFICATION'.—Fractures are variously classified ; for our purposes they may be divided into three great classes: Simple, Compound, and Complicated. A Simple fracture is one that does not communicate with the exterior and is uncomplicated by injury to important structures in its neighbourhood. It is not hable to septic complications, and, with few exceptions, unites readily. A Compound fracture is one that communicates with the exterior through a laceration of a cutaneous or mucous surface. These frac- tures may be compound from the first ; communication with the exterior may occur simultaneously with the fracture, either as a result of the soft parts being divided down to the bone, or from the broken ends of the bone being forcibly protruded through the skin or mucous membrane. On the other hand, a fracture may be simple at first, and may afterwards become compound, either owing to the bone working its way through the tissues as a result of movement, or owing to the occur- rence of suppuration or gangrene in the parts over the broken ends