278 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES or similar structure vertically over the affected hip joint. The limb is drawn up into the vertical position, the buttocks being lifted just clear of the bed. The sound limb should also be tied up to the bar so that the child cannot relax the extension upon the fracture by putting the sound limb upon the bed and raising himself upon it. This method is referred to in detail on p. 386. Splint Extension.—In other cases the traction may be made from one end of a fixed splint. This has the advantage over simple weight exten- sion that it steadies the limb and can be made to prevent rotation. An example of this method is seen in the case of List on's long splint ; in this splint, however, the counter-extension is apt to cause irrita- tion and ulceration about the perineum. Hessing's splint is now more generally employed as it permits the patient to walk about. It is fully described and illustrated on p. 375. It is a very useful form of splint as well as a very comfortable one, but it is expensive and therefore not within the means of the ordinary hospital patient. Bryant's ' double splint,' figured on p. 387, is much used in hospital practice for children. For all cases of extension the bed should be so arranged that it is impossible for the trunk to sink down into the mattress, as otherwise the fragments will be displaced and the resistance which the extension has to overcome will be increased. To prevent this, ' fracture boards,' which are stout planks about a foot broad and as long as the bed is wide, are placed transversely upon the frame of the bed immediately beneath a firm and thick mattress. If necessary, a water-piUow should be placed beneath the pelvis. A cradle should be placed over the affected limb to obviate the friction of the bedclothes and the risk of pointing of the toes from their pressure. A single blanket over the limb will keep it warm, while the cradle supports the rest of the bedclothes. Mechanical Fixation of the Fractured Ends.—While the methods above described are satisfactory in many cases, they sometimes fail, and something further must be done. It may happen that, notwithstanding the greatest care and ingenuity, true bony union may fail, or if it occurs there may be so much shortening and deformity as to interfere seriously with the usefulness of the limb. Formerly the danger of compound fractures was so great that both surgeon and patient contented them- selves with the best results they could obtain without operation, but at the present time it is not considered justifiable to leave the patient with an ununited or a badly united fracture, or even a recent fracture in bad position, if the fragments can be maintained in proper position by means of an operation. Hence operative interference is being employed in a large and increasing number of fractures. This is more especially the case in fractures accompanied by wide separation of the fragments, as, for example, those of the patella or the olecranon, and those in which the line of fracture is oblique and the fragments over-ride considerably, —as is so frequently the case in fractures in the shaft of the femur—