AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 334 one. If the limb can be used, constant voluntary movements will increase the range of movement, but if the limb is not serviceable, the full extent of movement may never be regained. SEPARATION OF THE LOWER EPIPHYSIS. In young subjects this may take the place of the fracture just described. These cases are rarely simple separations of the epiphysis, as usually the line of fracture, like the one just mentioned, extends obliquely upwards and backwards. The displacement is similar to that in the supra-condy- loid fracture. TREATMENT.—The epiphysis is generally easily reduced and maintained in position. The limb should be put up and treated as a supra-condyloid fracture. The ultimate results are usually satisfactory, T-SHAPED FRACTURE INTO THE JOINT. There may be a vertical fracture of the lower fragment into the joint, in addition to the supra-condyloid fracture described above; this is spoken of as a T-shaped fracture of the lower end of the humerus. The direction of this vertical fracture varies ; sometimes it is oblique, but usually it enters the joint between the two condyles. This fracture is of the highest practical importance, because it is a comminuted fracture of the lower end of the humerus, and in it there is not only backward displacement of the fragments as a whole, but the two portions into which the lower fragment is split up are displaced on one another and the consequence is that little or no movement in the elbow-joint may result, unless perfect reduction has been obtained and maintained. The conformation of the elbow-joint is such that very slight irregularity of the articular surfaces is sufficient to interfere with movement to a very serious degree. TREATMENT.—The treatment here is much more difficult than in the supra-condyloid fractures, and the best chance of getting a good result is by operative interference. In adults the best plan is to cut down upon the fracture and fasten the broken ends in position. In young children the fragments are often so small and friable that no wire or screw will hold, and in these cases the fragments, after being exposed, are manipulated into position, and then, if it is impossible to secure them by driving in tacks or fine pins, the arm is put up in the flexed position and treated as for a supra-condyloid fracture. Before proceeding to operate, the fullest information as to the size, shape, and position of the fragments should be obtained by means of stereoscopic radiograms. The fracture is best reached by a free lateral incision over each condyle, but the tissues must not be detached too freely from either condyle, as otherwise the nutrition of the fragments might be