FRACTURES OF LOWER END OF HUMERUS 331 latter should be evacuated through a vertical slit in the sheath, or, if badly pulped, the injured part should be excised and primary nerve suture employed to unite the ends. When the fracture has to be exposed for this purpose, the surgeon should fasten the fragments together. When the nerve becomes involved in the callus, it is necessary to cut d(wn upon it without delay, as otherwise extensive and permanent degeneration may occur. The nerve is exposed by means of the incision recommended on p. 140, traced to the seat of fracture, and its rela- tion to this ascertained. Any mass of callus surrounding the nerve should be carefullv chipped away, the greatest care being taken to avoid damaging the nerve in the process. Some of the fibres of the triceps should be stitched beneath the nerve to prevent pressure from fresh callus. If the nerve be simply stretched over a mass of callus, enough should be chiselled away to remove all chance of pressure. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER END OF THE HUMERUS. Fractures are fairly common in this situation and are generally produced bv indirect violence, such as falls upon the outstretched hand. They may also occur from direct violence and then usually result from falls upon the elbow. Tliese injuries are of great importance, chieliy because they often lead to considerable interference with the movement of the elbow-joint, and it depends largely on the method of treatment adopted whether the patient is left with a stiff elbow or a useful one. SUPRA-CONDYLOID FRACTURE. This is, perhaps, the most common fracture about the lower end of the bone. The fracture runs across the humerus just above the joint ; its line may be somewhat irregular, but it is always oblique, usually from above downwards and forwards. The forearm and elbow are carried upwards and backwards by the force producing the fracture, and the lower fragment goes with them, being drawn up behind so that the lower end of the upper fragment lies in front of the elbow, generally more or less closely in contact with the ulna. The lower fragment is also bent somewhat forwards. The result is that the fracture cannot be properly reduced by traction on the forearm owing to the flexion of the lower fragment, and unless reduction be effected, the movements of the elbow-joint are greatly interfered with. Some power of extension may be retained, but flexion beyond or even up to a right angle is j^iracti- cahy lost. TREATMENT.—This fracture should always be reduced under full anaesthesia. Although reduction is effected fairly easily by flexing the elbow to a right angle and then making extension with one hand, whilst the fragments are manipulated into position with the other, recuiTence