50 AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS followed, such as are indicated for glands in the neck, it can usually be completed successfully. Since there is already a septic sinus present, however, the outer end of the latter should first be scraped, and then a piece of sponge or wool dipped in undiluted carbolic acid should be introduced into it, and left in as a plug. Then the skin is purified, and the sinus is enclosed in an elliptical incision, care being taken not to button-hole it in excising the mass of glands. As it is impossible to be quite sure that perfect asepsis has been secured, a drainage tube should be introduced into the wound at the end of the operation. After-treatnient.—The patient should be placed under the best hygienic conditions, and, after the wound has healed, should be sent to the country so as to re-establish the general health. Tuberculin in appropriate doses may be used as a prophylactic against a recurrence (see Vol. I. p. 522). TUMOURS. The neoplasms occurring in lymphatic glands may be either primary or secondary. PRIMARY TUMOURS. The primary tumours of lymphatic glands are rare, the chief being lymphadenoma or lymphoma. There is, however, some evidence to show that this disease is due to a chronic infective process and is not an example of true tumour formation. For the present, however, it will be more convenient to consider it here. Lympho-sarcoma which is also a prmiary tumour of lymphatic tissue is fully described in connection with Tumours (see Vol. I. p. 264). LYMPHADENOMATA are composed of lymphatic tissue and occur primarily in glands or in parts where lymphatic tissue is normally found; they present the same structure as the lymphatic glands, that is to say, a delicate reticulum with lymphocytes entangled in it. These lymphatic tumours vary in malignancy, but the typical lymphadenoma is very malignant indeed. It occurs in glands, generally beginning in the neck or the axilla, and the growth of adenoid tissue quickly spreads beyond the gland capsule and infiltrates the tissues around. Adhesion of the gland to the surrounding structures soon occurs, and thus a nodular mass is formed composed of a multitude of glands united by adenoid tissue. Other groups of glands then become involved and, in addition, tumours composed of lymphatic tissue may appear in parts where this is not normally present, as, for example, in bones. The disease is accom- panied by increasing pallor, but not at first by emaciation. Ultimately death takes place from exhaustion. Treatment.—The treatment of lymphadenoma is unsatisfactory. Excision of a mass of lymphadenomatous glands seldom arrests the