27 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS FOREIGN BODIES lodged beneath the nail should be removed at once, because they not only cause n^uch pain at the time, but are apt to lead to suppuration, and possibly irregular destruction of the matrix and consequent deformity of the nail. After extraction of the foreign body it is a good plan to snip away the portion of the nail beneath which it lay with sharp-pointed scissors, and then to apply a boric fomentation for twenty-four hours. Unless this be done, there is considerable danger of septic trou])le, as there is little chance of the septic products escaping freely should the wound suppurate. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. The most important affections of the nails are those which are grouped together under the name onychia. This term is applied to inflammations of the soft parts around the nail or of the matrix beneath it ; there are several forms of onychia. ACUTE TRAUMATIC ONYCHIA. This is tlie ordinary inflammatory condition, under or at tlie side of a nail, whicli is usually caused by the presence of a foreign body, as, for example, a splinter of wood. This is followed by suppuration, and small collections of pus form under the nail and open in front or at the side of it, and the result may be that the nail is lost. TREATMENT.—The foreign body must be removed at once if it can be recognised, but if not, the pus should be evacuated by gently detach- ing the nail from the matrix until the abscess is reached, and then clipping away the detached portion. This can sometimes be done by freezing, but when the affection is too painful for this, a general anaesthetic, such as nitrous oxide, should be employed. When the small drop of pus has been evacuated, and the nail over it cut away, the inflammation quickly ceases under the application of wet boric dressings (see Vol. I. p. 51). The affected portion of the matrix will recover, and the nail will grow well afterwards. INGROWING TOE-NAIL. A second form of onychia which gives rise to a great deal of trouble is that known as lateral onychia, or as it is commonlj' called, from the fact that it exclusively affects the toe, ' ingrowing toe-nail.' In this condition there is inflammation of the matrix and skin at the side of the nail, generally on the outer side of the great toe. It usually occurs A B Fig. 8.—Removal of a Foreign Body from beneath the Nail. In A the foreign body is seen extending beneath the free margin of the nail. In B the nail is shown cut away to expose the splinter and allow of its being withdrawn.