FRACTURES OF INDIVIDUAL BONES OF PELVIS 365 FRACTURES OF THE ACETABULUM. The rim of the acetabulum may be broken off, or the fracture may run through the centre of the cavity ; it may sometimes be so extensive that the head of the femur passes in between the broken fragments and projects into the pelvis. The accident may result from a fall on the knee, and this form of violence generally leads to detach- ment of a portion of the upper and back part of the rim of the acetabulum ; the result is that the head of the bone has a constant tendency to escape from the acetabulum and to slide upwards and backwards on to the dorsum of the ilium. Sometimes, however, it is due to a severe fall or blow upon the great trochanter, which drives the head of the bone forcibly against the bottom of the acetabulum, and then fracture takes place in that situation. Fig. 176.—Extension applied for Fracture of the Acetabulum. In addition to the ordinary weight extension from the foot, there is a second extension at right angles to the long axis of the Umb tlirough the agency of a sling passed transversely around the upper part of the thigh. Counter-extension is made by a broad towel around the pelvis fastened to the side of the bed opposite to that on which the pulley is. The foot of the bed is raised on blocks. TREATMENT.—When the rim of the acetahuluiii is chipped off, extension with the hmb in the fully abducted position should be em- ployed after the head of the bone has been manipulated into position ; in adults a weight of six or eight pounds will generally sufhce. The extension should be kept up for at least six weeks ; passive motion should be begun after three weeks and repeated daily. Extension by means of a long splint is seldom sufficient to prevent the head of the bone slipping out of position again. Fractures of the acetabular cavity are rare, and, being usually the result of very severe violence, are often complicated by fracture of the neck or the head of the femur, injury to the pelvis elsewhere, or damage to the pelvic organs. The exact condition of affairs is difficult to make out, and a stereoscopic radiogram should always be obtained. With the patient under an anesthetic, an attempt should be made