TUMOURS OF THE SKIN 19 excision be refused or be inadvisable. Thyroid extract in doses of 3-5 grs. may be given three times a day to adults and in proportionate doses to children. TUMOURS OF THE SIvIN. These may be innocent or malignant, primary or secondary. INNOCENT TUMOURS. SEBACEOUS CYSTS.—These common tumours of the skin consist of a cavity lined with squamous epithelium, and containing epidermic scales, sebaceous matter, and cholesterin. They are due to a blocking of the orifice of the sebaceous duct and dilatation of the gland behind ; it is usual to find a small pit, which is the blocked orifice of the duct, in the skin over the centre of the cyst. Sebaceous cysts are situated in the skin itself, and are thereby distinguished from dermoid cysts which occur in the subcutaneous tissue. The tumours are at first ifattened, and then become spherical ; they generally occur in hairy parts, such as the scalp. The cyst always possesses a well-defined wall. Treatment.—In parts where the skin is thick the cyst wall is tough, so that it is easily shelled out from the loose connective tissue by which it is surrounded. On the face, however, the cyst wall is thin and delicate, and there is little or no loose cellular tissue around it, so that careful dissection is required for its complete removal. Unless the entire cyst wall be removed, recurrence is certain. Where there has been much friction, the result of the inflammatory exudation may be that the cyst wall becomes adherent in places and is difficult to remove. Of Cysts on the Scalp.—The hair should be shaved along the pro- posed line of incision, the skin and hair around rubbed over with ether soap or acetone, thoroughly washed with strong mixture, and the hair converted into an antiseptic mass by rubbing into it double cyanide of mercury and zinc powder made into a paste with a i in 20 carbolic acid solution ; this is rubbed in until the hair in the vicinity is thoroughly impregnated with it. A narrow-bladed knife with its cutting edge turned upwards is then made to transfix the C3'st and the surgeon cuts outwards, dividing everything and bringing the knife right out through the upper half of the cyst (see Fig. 5). The divided wall of the cyst can readily be seen on separating the edges of the skin, and by pulling gently upon it, it is easy to enucleate the whole cyst except when inflammation has occurred and the cyst is adherent to the skin ; if this be the case, it is necessar}^ to remove the adherent portion of the skin as well. Inflammation is not uncommon in sebaceous cysts of the scalp, owing to the friction of the hat or to infection through the hair follicles. c 2