ANEURYSM OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY 223 made along the outer or radial border of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the deep fascia divided, the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum and palmaris longus pulled outwards and that of the flexor carpi ulnaris pulled inwards ; the artery will then be exposed with the ulnar nerve to its inner (or ulnar) side (see Fig. 91). Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries.— After ligature of either of these vessels, the collateral circulation is readily established through the palmar and carpal arches, the interosseous branches of the ulnar and the branches of the arteries in the forearm. ANEURYSM OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Aneurysm of the external iliac generally occurs in the lower part of the vessel and is of the sacculated variety, although it may be fusiform; in the latter case it generally spreads downwards and affects the common femoral trunk. The pressure symptoms are chiefly referred to the anterior crural and genito-crural nerves. TREjATMENT.—The treatment most in vogue at the present time is to apply a proximal ligature whenever it can be done. The exact spot at which the ligature is applied will depend upon the situation of the aneurysm. If possible the external iliac trunk should be tied ; but when the aneurysm is situated so high up that there is no room for the application of a ligature between it and the bifurcation, the common iliac may be tied. Surgical Anatomy of the Common Iliac Artery.—The iliac vessels run along the brim of the pelvis. The right common iliac artery is longer than the left, and has behind it at its origin the commencement of the vena cava, and both the common iliac veins ; lower down, the right common iliac vein is internal to the artery. On the left side the common iliac vein lies internal to and somewhat behind the artery in the greater part of its course. Both arteries are covered by peritoneum, the lower attachment of the mesentery being situated close to the origin of the right vessel, while the left is crossed by the meso-sigmoid. The sigmoid loop lies in front of the left iliac artery, and small intestines in front of the right. The left ureter usually crosses the common iliac artery at or near its bifurcation, but on the right side the ureter in most cases crosses tlie external iliac. Surgical Anatomy of the External Iliac Artery.—The external iliac artery is covered throughout its whole length by the peritoneum and the subperitoneal tissue. On the right side, it is crossed by the termination of the ileum, and occasionall}^ the appendix ; on the left side are the sigmoid and some coils of small intestine. In the female the ovarian vessels cross the upper part of the arterj' ; in the male the spermatic vessels cross it near its termination. Near its lower end also are the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve and the deep circumflex iliac vein;