TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES 303 bone does not always take place ; the term non-union is applied to a large group of cases, in some of which the union is imperfect, while in others no attempt at repair has taken j;lace. Pathological Changes.—The following conditions are the most common: (1) The union may be simply delaj^ed ; little or no union may be present at the end of six or eight weeks, but the fracture gradually consolidates as times goes on. This is really delayed union, and it is chiefly important as a reminder that want of union, at the end of two or three months, does not necessarily imply the establishment of an ununited fracture. (2) The callus which forms after the accident may be normal in amount and of the usual structure, but it may remain soft, and ossification may not occur. (3) The callus may become converted into fibrous tissue, so that the union consists of fibrous or ligamentous material which varies in extent and in strength according to the position of the fracture and the condition of the patient. (4) An actual false joint may form between the ends of the bone which become bound together by a strong fibrous capsule enclosing a cavity into which the broken ends project ; this cavity may contain synovial fluid. (5) No attempt at union may occur, the ends of the bone becoming thin, pointed, and atrophied. Causes.—The causes of non-union are variable, and may be divided into local conditions interfering with union, and general constitutional states of the patient. Local.—The local causes may be classified as follows: (i) The pre- sence between the ends of the bones, of muscle, fibrous tissue or tendon, or even a piece of loose bone, as in comminuted fractures. (2) Imperfect immobilisation of the limb during repair. (3) Undue separation of the fractured surfaces, either from overlapping or from retraction, as in fracture of the patella. (4) Imperfect blood-supply to the lower fragment when the fracture is situated near the nutrient artery of the bone. A good example of this is seen when there are two fractures in a long bone, the upper of which involves the nutrient artery. The upper fracture will probably unite satisfactorily, the lower may not. (5) Extensive necrosis in compound fractures. Constitutional.—Among the constitutional causes of non-union may be mentioned : (i) Specific fevers occurring during the progress of the case ; these are especially apt to lead to non-union if they commence about the time of the injury. (2) Alcohohsm, apart from the occurrence of delirium tremens and the resulting disturbance of the fracture, may retard union after fracture especially when there are degenerative changes in the kidneys. (3) In rickets there is often abundant callus thrown out, but normal ossification does not take place and the seat of fracture remains yielding. Scurvy, gout, an;emia, general debilit^^ old age, and paralj'sis,