AMPUTATIONS 498 dissect them up rapidly and accurately. When the flaps are cut from without inwards, as is done nowadays, the knife should not be more than six inches long. This gives sufficient control over the knife, while at the same time it enables the surgeon to divide the muscles by broad sweeps of the blade. Should, however, a circular amputation be per- formed, or the flaps be cut by transfixion, the knife must be nearly half as long again as the diameter of the limb at the point at which the bone is to be sawn. CUTTING THE FLAPS.—The surgeon should stand on the patient's right of the limb to be removed, and the first points for decision are the spot at which the bone is to be divided and the length and position of the flaps. The directions for ascertaining the length of the flaps have already been given (see p. 489). They should be cut from wdthout inwards rather than by transfixion, which was formerly much in vogue on account of its greater rapidity. The great advantage of cutting the flaps from without inwards is that the surgeon is thereby enabled to gauge the relative amount of skin and muscle much more easity and accurately. The extra time consumed in the operation is of no practical importance. The shape o f the flaps is of great importance ; they should be practically rectangular, with merely the corners rounded off. A common fault with beginners is to make the flaps too pointed; the incision marking out the flap is made to approach the middle line almost from the first, whereas it should be carried down almost vertically parallel to the long axis of the limb, nearly to the lower border of the flap, where it should curve slightly towards the middle line and then run transversely across the limb to a corresponding point on the opposite side, when, after a slight curve upwards, it should be carried almost vertically up to a point opposite to that from which it started. In order to prevent mistakes at a later stage it is well for a beginner to mark out the posterior flap before dissecting up the anterior one. This flap is generally about a third the length of the anterior, and is made by drawing the knife transversely across the back of the limb, just rounding off the flap where this incision joins the lateral vertical ones. In cutting the flaps the edge of the knife must be held strictly at right angles to the surface of the skin, as otherwise the edge of the flap will be bevelled and imperfectly nourished, and may lose its vitality. The incisions marking out the flaps should extend through the skin, subcu- taneous tissue and deep fascia ; the latter must always be taken up with the skin as it contains the main blood-supply of the superficial structures. The skin flap is then graduaUy raised from its free edge. In a good many cases the flap wiU consist of the skin and fascia only, but in the example we are considering—the so-called ' mixed' flap—the first two inches com- prise nothing but the deep fascia and the structures above it, but after that the knife is made to divide the muscle graduaUy and obliquely, so that more and more of this structure is taken up as the flap progresses,