AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 450 PHOSPHORUS NECROSIS. Phosphorus necrosis requires special mention as it differs in some respects from the necrosis due to other causes. It is the yeUow phosphorus, not the red, which produces necrosis, and practically the lower i aw is always the bone affected. The disease is probably purely local; the phosphorus comes into contact with the bone through the medium of carious teeth. The gums become ulcerated and the inflam- matory affection spreads to the periosteum and thus leads to the formation of spongy outgrowths from the bone. The gums become separated from the alveoli, foetid pus is constantly poured out, and a large area of the jaw or even the entire bone may lose its^vitality. The sequestrum, therefore, is not merely normal bone that has died, but consists of the original bone with large spongy osteophytic growths on the surface. The researches of Prof. Ralph Stockman i seem to show that the con- dition is really tuberculous, and that the phosphorus merely predisposes the tissues to tuberculous infection. TREATMENT.—Prophylaxis.—The first essential is to see that the patient works only in the red or amorphous, and not in the yellow form. The most scrupulous care should be taken to wash the hands thoroughly before meals, because it is probable that the mischief is due to particles of phosphorus coming into contact with the food, rather than to the actual phosphorus vapour. Another point of the first importance in prophylaxis is that the gums and teeth should be carefully watched while the patient is at work, and at the first sign of ulceration the work should be given up, and antiseptic washes, such as Sanitas or Condy's fluid, used until the ulceration is cured ; any carious teeth should receive appropriate treatment. The hygiene of the mouth is of the first importance. When the Disease is established.—Working in phosphorus should be abandoned at once. There are two alternatives in treatment, viz., either to wait for the separation of the necrosed fragment, or to excise the affected portion of the jaw at once, leaving the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum intact as far as possible. The separation of the sequestrum in these cases is extremely slow, and a very long time may elapse before the affected portion becomes loose; as a large portion of the jaw will almost certainly be destroyed, it seems best to remove the affected portion of the bone directly necrosis is established, especially in view of the probable tuberculous nature of the affection. If the periosteum be separated carefully, sufficiently firm bone will usually be thrown out to make a useful mandible. The operation of excision of the mandible is described in connection with the affections of that bone (see Vol. III.). ' Brit. Med. Jour., January 7th, 1899.