AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS 44 called for. If the glandular enlargement be simple, it will then subside without any special local treatment ; at most some flacebo may be applied, the part being, meanwhile, placed at rest. The use of iodine and friction should be avoided. When, however, the enlargement of the glands continues or increases after the removal of all primary sources of irritation, there will be strong grounds for suspicion that the condition is tuberculous, and appropriate treatment (see p. 47) must be adopted accordingly. VENEREAL ADENITIS. Under this term are included simple bubo, arising in connection with want of cleanliness, and also gonorrhoeal, chancrous, and syphilitic buboes. SIMPLE BUBO.—This is an enlargement of the inguinal lymphatic glands, and results from some irritation, such as slight abrasions, balanitis, or uncleanliness. The enlargement of the glands is not accompanied by great pain or tenderness, and does not usually end in suppuration. It subsides quickly if the patient be kept at rest, with fomentations applied to the enlarged glands, and appropriate treatment to the primary source of irritation. GONOmiHCEAL BUBO.—Enlargement of the inguinal lym- phatic glands occasionally occurs in gonorrhoea. It does not usually end in suppuration, however, unless septic organisms have gained access. When suppuration does occur, it is probable that there is infection by pyogenic organisms in addition to the gonococcus. In these cases it is generally possible to detect an intra-urethral sore by means of the urethroscope. Treatment.—The treatment of gonorrhoeal bubo is practically the same as that of the simple variety. The patient should be kept in bed so as to ensure complete rest to the part, and the treatment suitable for inflammatory conditions generally, viz., fomentations, a purge, etc. (see Vol. I. Chap. I.), should be adopted, and attention should be paid to the treatment of the primary condition. If irritating injections have been employed, these should be discontinued for a time, but the urethra may be washed out two or three times daily with tepid water, or very dilute Condy's fluid. Large quantities of diluents should be given by the mouth, and copaiba or sandalwood oil should be administered; in other words, the ordinary treatment for gonorrhoea must be adopted. When suppuration occurs, the treatment is similar to that for acute adenitis with abscess {vide supra). OHANOROUS NON-SYPHILITIC BUBO is very common, a large number of cases of soft chancre being complicated by adenitis. Generally one or two glands at the inner end of the horizontal inguinal group are affected and the trouble begins about fourteen days after the appearance of the sore. The symptoms of a chancrous bubo are usually sub-acute. They