73 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS occurs idiopathically in certain muscles, the most common being the psoas. This condition is rare, and the reason why the inflammation should locate itself in a certain muscle, is obscure ; this affection is certainly due to the presence of the pneumococcus in some cases. Treatment.—Free incision aird drainage of the cavity, similar to that already described for acute abscess, is the only satisfactory method (see Vol. I. p. 27). CHRONIC MYOSITIS. This is a serious condition, because it leads to great impairment of the function of the muscle, and also because it is very difficult to arrest. It occurs in the sclerosing and the ossifying forms. SCLEROSING MYOSITIS.—The muscles gradually become converted into fibrous tissue, which contracts and leads to permanent shortening ; the entire muscle may not be affected, but movement is necessarily materially interfered with by the fibrous bands. The con- dition may follow acute suppurative or non-suppurative myositis; it also occurs in muscles around inflammatory foci of long standing, such as suppurating joints, or where hydatid cysts, gummata, foreign bodies, etc., are present in the muscle. It is also supposed to occur as the result of rheumatism. It leads to shortening and imperfect action of the muscles, and various deformities. Treatment.—It is necessary, first, to ascertain and remove the cause of the disease, if possible ; then an attempt should be made to arrest the inflammatory process and prevent subsequent contraction. The general treatment is usually ineffectual; when there is no syphilis it should be directed against any rheumatic or gouty tendency that may possibly be present. The administration of mercury is sometimes of service. The important point in the local treatment is to fix the part in such a position that the muscle is put as much upon the stretch as the patient can bear ; counter-irritants and massage should then be applied to the affected area. Progressive contraction of the muscle must be combated by means of splints, extension apparatus, etc. This is very difficult, for the contraction leads to such pressure that the apparatus must be altered from time to time and thus the contraction is apt to increase. After the inflammation has subsided, however, matters may be improved by dividing either the tense bands in the muscle itself, or its tendon. In order to divide the fibrous bands which run in the muscle, it is best to make a free incision down on to the latter in order to see the exact condition of affairs; if a large muscle be affected, it is well to turn aside a flap of suitable size. Everything that appears to be infiltrated or fibrous can then be divided, and the healthy muscular bundles are left intact. The various incisions should be made at dift'erent levels. In extensive cases, however, it is better to divide the tendon instead of the muscle, because satisfactory union is more likely to take place in tendon