49 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS best plan is still excision. Any thin or adherent skin should be enclosed in an elliptical incision and removed, and care should be taken to avoid puncture of the abscess during the dissection. Free removal of the whole lymphatic area must be practised, as partial excision or removal of visibly diseased glands only is very apt to end in disappointment ; there is almost always enlargement of other glands subsequently, and this is especially likely to be the case if sepsis should occur. Under these circumstances, irritation and rapid enlargement of the smaller glands already infected take place. The surgeon should never be content with merely shelling tuberculous glands out of their capsules. When the glandular abscess is very large, or when, as sometimes happens, there is a mixed infection with pyogenic organisms, an excision, practised when the case first comes under notice, would mean the removal of a large poition of the skin and would entail a very difficult dissection. In these cases it is probably best to open the abscess antiseptically first of all, introduce a drainage tube, and wait for the subsidence of the swelling. It will be found that the greater part of the swelling subsides in a few weeks' time, and a sinus is left leading to the mass of tuberculous glands. At this stage excision of the glands may be practised with advantage, the sinus being dissected out at the same time {lide infra). There is not much to be said in favour of such partial operations for tuberculous glands as scraping with a sharp spoon. In this plan, a small incision is made over the gland, whether it be suppurating or not, and a sharp spoon is bored into it and the cheesy material or the pus evacuated. After the glands have been scraped out, the cavity is generally filled with glycerine and iodoform emulsion (see p. 46) and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Strict asepsis must be maintained, and if the wound gives way, antiseptic dressings will have to be continued until healing is complete. The result is generally unsatisfactory ; a certain number of cases do well, and recover with a small scar, but in a large proportion a sinus is left, fresh glands enlarge, abscesses form in connection with them, and ultimately the surgeon is compelled to excise the whole of the affected area. There is also a risk that acute tuberculosis may occur after scraping out tuberculous glands. Should the surgeon decide to employ scraping in preference to excision it is well to leave the glands unopened as long as possible, so that they may become completely broken down ; he may then possibly succeed in scraping away all the tuberculous disease, and is not so likely to leave behind tissue that will infect the wound. Most of the cases in which a good result is obtained by scraping are those in which the glands have become completely broken down by the chronic suppurative process before operative measures are resorted to. When a Sinus is Present.—When the patient comes under notice with sinuses leading down to diseased glands, excision of the m^ass is the best treatment. The operation is rather difficult, but if proper lines be