FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE 419 tibia and then to flex the knee, and swing the leg from a cradle or place it upon an incHned plane. The foot is held in position until the splint dries, and the greatest care is taken to keep it at right angles and fully- inverted. This is one of the strongest reasons for using an anaesthetic when reducing the fracture, as it is then easy to ensure that the foot remains in good position until the splint is firm. In this particular fracture it is essential to adopt treatment to obviate the possibility of stiffness of the ankle, and the method already described on p. 280 of treat- ing fractures largely by massage finds its most useful application here. Owing to the readiness with which displacement recurs, however, the greatest care has to be taken to fix the fracture while the joint is moved ; Fig. 20Q.—Syme's Horsii-shof. Splint. The object of this splint is to rectify the backward displacement of tlie foot. The sling embracing the heel may be made of elastic webbing. The smaller figure shows the method of rolling up lint to make the padding. The splint is commonly supplied with two holes bored in its upper end. It is then secured to the upper part of the leg in a manner similar to that shown in Fig. 208, A. It is a difficult splint to use with success, as it needs great care to prevent the occurrence of a pressure sore over the instep where the edge of the horseshoe cuts into the extensor tendons. Such an accident is one of great gravity owing to subsequent adhesions. even after some time displacement may still occur from want of attention to this point, or from mere looseness of the splint due to shrinking of the limb or alteration of the padding. After-treatment.—The splint can usually be left off in about three weeks, but the patient should not be allowed to bear weiglit on the foot for seven or eight weeks, lest the weight of the body should produce a valgus condition. So long as massage and passive movement are thoroughlj' practised, there is no fear of stiffness in the joints, and there is therefore no need to bear weight on the foot too early when this treatment is adopted. The patient may get about on crutches, with the knee flexed and the leg suspended by a bandage round the neck or supported in a knee-rest. Operation.—Should it be impossible to reduce the fracture properly, or should the deformity recur in spite of the treatment advised above, it will be advisable to expose the seat of fracture without further E E 2