AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 472 With this many authorities recommend the administration of fresh meat juice. Modification of the milk can often he avoided by the addition of sodium citrate. The milk is given scalded and undiluted, with a grain of citrate of soda added to each ounce. For example, when a five-ounce feed of milk is ordered, the parent is given a solution of citrate of soda containing five grains to the drachm, with instructions to add one tea- spoonful to each feed. More important than either of these, however, is the addition of fresh fruit and vegetables to the dietary. The most useful fruits are oranges, lemons, and grapes ; the vegetables may be dressed in the ordinary manner or given in soups. The drug treatment does not call for much notice. There is no specific drug for the disease, and all that is necessary is to treat on ordinary medical lines any complications that may arise. The child must be placed under the best possible hygienic conditions, and rickets, if present, must receive appropriate treatment (see p. 464). Local.—-The treatment of the affected bones is of importance. In severe cases absolute rest in bed must be insisted upon, both on account of the liability to fracture, and because the child is apt to suffer from severe attacks of syncope. For the first of these reasons also, the greatest care must be taken in handling the child while performing the ordinary nursing functions. The limb affected should be put upon a suitable splint, and, should a fracture occur, suitable apparatus will be required. Sandbags, however, are often better for fixing the limb than splints, as the tenderness is extreme. A sheet or towel is placed over the limb and sandbags of suitable size are rolled up in each end. As the disease subsides, splints may be applied, and union will occur. The subperiosteal extravasation usually becomes absorbed as the child improves under treatment ; rest will facilitate this. Should there be pyrexia and much tenderness, it may be impossible to be sure whether suppuration is going on beneath the periosteum. The qu-stion can be cleared up by the use of a large aspirating needle. Should the extravasation be excessive, however, absorption will be very slow, and under these circumstances, provided that the child be otherwise improving, and that absorption has come to a standstill, it may be advisable to cut down upon the swelling, incise the periosteum, and turn out all the clot. The clots are removed partly by the finger, partly by gentle irrigation with normal saline solution, and partly by compressing the limb. The wound is then sewn up without a drainage tube, and a large mass of wool is bandaged on firmly outside the dressing so as to exert compression and prevent re-accumulation of blood. By treating cases in this