344 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES cancellous bone. An attempt is now made to approximate the frag- ments. As a rule it is difficult to bring down the upper fragment into contact with the lower, and in some cases it is impossible to do so without dividing the triceps. This is done as follows: Lengthening the Triceps.—If the muscle be divided transversely a gap wiU be left in it, which may cause much functional disability. The incision should, therefore, be V-shaped or zigzag and carried through the breadth of the muscle (see Fig. 163); two V's or ser- rations, with their apices upwards, are usually sufficient. The incision com- mences at the left edge of the triceps and is carried obliquely upwards and to the right through the muscle for about two inches, according to the amount of shortening present, and terminates at a distance from the left edge equal to one quarter the entire breadth of the muscle. From this point a second incision is carried obliquely downwards and to the right, terminating in the centre of the muscle on a level with the starting-point of the first. A third incision then runs obliquely upwards, and also to the right terminating at the three-quarter point, and the division is completed by carrying another from this point obliquely down- wards to the right again, and bringing it out through the right edge of the muscle. This gives a series of serrations above and below the line of incision, and when the fragment with the tendon attached to it is pulled down, the apices of the serrations should be in contact if the incision has been planned properly. The adjacent sides of the serrations above and below are stitched together, so that a blunt cone is formed above and another below the line of division of the muscle ; the apices of these blunt cones are then stitched together by the muscle suture described on p. 64. The incision should be made in the lower part of the muscle, so that the apices of the upper serrations include some portion of the tendinous expansion. The best union is obtained when muscular fibres are included in the incisions instead of making the latter entirely through the tendon. When the fragment has been brought down by this means, it is drilled and the wire passed as already described (see p. 339). The bone. V ■■,\ Fig. 163.—Method of Lengthening THE Triceps in the operation for WIRING long-standing CASES OF FRAC- TURE OF THE Olecranon. The figure shows the long flap required for the exposure of the Triceps, and the serrated division of the muscle described in the text. The apices of the serrations are made blunt in order to secure a larger surface for union.