296 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES assume a characteristic position almost from the first. The fingers become flexed into the palm, and cannot be extended even by the use of con- siderable force as long as the wrist is kept extended. As soon, however, as flexion of the wrist is practised the fingers are extended at the metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and at the interphalangeal joints, but in severe cases these latter joints remain flexed. As the affection progresses, the wrist joint becomes flexed, and the nails are forced into the palm. The fore- arm is pronated and the elbow is somewhat flexed. The flexor muscles become so much wasted that they cannot be felt. All the joints remain normal. In the case of a growing chUd the bones of the affected forearm do not develop as rapidly as those on the unaffected side. Diagnosis.—As a rule this is easy if it be borne in mind that the paralysis and the contracture occur practically simultaneously, and that the contracture affects the damaged muscles. In cases of paralysis due to nerve pressure the contraction comes on much later, and affects the healthy muscles that oppose the action of the paralysed ones. Another point of great importance in the diagnosis is that there is no reaction of degeneration in cases of Volkmann's contracture. The electrical reactions are normal, while in paralysis from nerve pressure the reaction of de- generation sets in early. Prognosis.—When the aft'ection was first described it was thought that no treatment was of any avail. Experience shows that this is by no means the case, and numerous recoveries have followed the painstaking use of appropriate treatment. The final result, however, would seem to be influenced by the amount of damage done to the muscles when the case comes under notice. If the muscles are so disorganised that they are practically non-existent, little can be hoped for from treatment, but much may be done when the damage is only partial, and in these cases good functional results have been reported. Treatment.—Treatment may be non-operative or operative, and each has its own particular place. The more important is the non-operative treatment, which aims at restoring the functions of the damaged muscles, and which is said to suffice alone if it be begun sufficiently early; in any case, operation is only undertaken as an adjunct to non-operative measures. The most valuable method is to employ massage to the muscles of the forearm, combined with the use of passive movements, in the form of extension of the wrist and finger-joints, supination of the forearm, and extension of the elbow. This treatment should be carried out twice daily for a quarter of an hour at a time from the time the case is first seen, and must be persevered with, probably, for two years or more, but it need not be done by a skilled masseur. Galvanism may also possibly be of help, but is undoubtedly not essential. As the case improves, the patient should perform muscular exercises designed to strengthen the muscles in fault. Should the contracture be extreme when the case is first seen, or