156 AFFECTIONS OF VEINS included in the area of the operation the better. Strict asepsis is im- perative, for the shghtest suppuration may lead to septic thrombosis or to a septic ulcer, which will be slow in healing on account of the varicose condition. The limb should be shaved and thoroughly disinfected (see Vol. I. p. lOo), raised, rotated outwards, and the knee flexed and steadied upon a suitable sandbag ; an incision two or three inches long is then made over the portion of the vein to be removed. The group of veins highest up the limb should be removed first ; for example, the first incision should be for removal of the internal saphena close to the groin, the veins about the knee and leg being excised after this has been done. When a long portion of a straight vein such as the internal saphena is to be removed, the incision should lie directly over the long axis of the vein. When only small portions of a vein are to be excised, the incision may be made either directly over the portions to be removed, or somewhat obliquely to the long axis of the vessel. The skin incision must be made cleanly with a sharp scalpel, and at right angles to the surface of the skin, and care must be taken not to go deeply enough to wound the vein. The difficulty of the operation is greatly increased if an accidental puncture of the vein should occur; as long as this is avoided the operation, though somewhat tedious, is fairly easy. After the skin and fat have been divided, the vein is seen to stand out, usually irregularly, as it is tied down by bands of fibrous tissue running across it from the deep surface of the skin. These bands must be divided, and then the skin is raised fi^om the dilated vein by means of a few touches with the point of the knife. In doing this, the edges of the skin must not be bruised by holding them tightly; forceps should only be used for just raising the edges of the skin, and as soon as sufficient has been liberated, the skin should be grasped between the finger and thumb. When the skin has been raised from the veins, the separation of the latter from the cellular tissue, in which they lie, is readily effected by means of a blunt-poitned dissector (see Fig. 55). Care must be taken not to include any branches of nerves in the ligature along with the vein, or great pain may result. When the vein and its branches have been isolated throughout the whole length of the incision, a pair of pressure forceps should be put on the upper end, another on the lower portion, and others on all the branches, the veins being pulled out of their bed, so that as much as possible is removed. The vein is then cut away between the various clamps, each separate branch tied with fine catgut and the forceps removed. A piece of gauze is thrown over the wound. FiG: 55.—Fine Dissector.