FRACTURES OF THE MIDDLE OF THE FOREARM 353 be deformity, however, the union must be cut tlirough and the position rectified. This may perhaps be done through the original incision, but it may be necessary to make additional incisions directly over the lateral aspect of the fractures, in order to get proper access (see Fig. 169). An attempt should be made to stitch some fascia or muscle over any raw surface of the bone left, so as to prevent any possibihty of the bones becoming fused together again. After the wound has healed, passive motion of the joints should be com- menced at once. Unless the union has been divided at the operation, there is no necessity for keeping the limb in splints. A large sling supporting the elbow and the forearm will suffice. In badly united fractures with marked deformity and loss of usefulness of the hand it may be necessary to expose the fracture and divide the union. Two in- cisions must be made, one over each side of the limb. The bones can be secured by wires (see Fig. 306), or by the plates recommended for ununited fractures (see P- 307). Ununited Fracture.—To seciue union in ununited fractures of the forearm an operation is necessar3^ and the best access to the bones may be got through longitudinal incisions over the outer and inner borders of the forearm. When the bone has been ununited for some time, a quarter or half an inch of the atrophied ends must be removed. When one bone only has been broken, the removal of this amount will cause a gap between the ends because of the unyielding sound bone ; it will therefore be necessary to divide the latter at a suitable spot, ]:ireferably lower down so as to avoid union of the four fragments, and to remove enough of it to enable the fragments of the fractured bone to come into position (see Fig. 170). The treatment of the divided bone will be similar to that described in the preceding paragraph. In both ununited and badly united fractures it is advisable to fix the elbow-joint as well as the hand after operation, and a Croft's splint is the best method of doing this. The sphnt should extend as high as the axilla, otherwise the elbow-joint wiU not be properly fixed. Fig. 170.—Ununited Fracture of THE Radius. The dark parts show the portions of bone that must be removed. A A