TUBERCULOSIS. 455 sequestra are very slow in separating, and months or years may elapse before a small sequestrum is quite loose. The sequestrum, therefore, cannot be lifted out as can those that follow acute osteo-myelitis, but must be torn out of its bed with forceps. The wall of the cavity from which the sequestrum has been removed is also tuberculous, and must be scooped and gouged away in the manner described above for the removal of soft deposits. Strict asepsis is essential, as otherwise serious suppura- tion may occur, and then any tuberculous tissue left behind is likely to grow more rapidly. If the whole of the tuberculous tissue has been got rid of, it will suffice to stitch up the wound, leaving the cavity to fill with blood-clot which subsequently becomes organised; but if there be any doubt about the complete removal of the tuberculous deposit, it is better to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the part, sprinkle the wound with iodoform, and pack it with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform. On the following day the external dressing is removed, but the packing need not be disturbed for three or four days unless it be loose. This packing is continued until the wound has completely filled with granulations, and then it may be given up and the ordinary dressings applied until healing is complete. In tuberculous disease of the small bones such as those of the tarsus, it is often best to excise the bone in the early stage without attempting merely to remove the deposit. The removal of one of the cuneiforms, for example, does not in any way cripple the patient, and if done in the early stage it cuts short the disease—which otherwise would be apt to spread to and infect the tarsal joints—and gives an excellent functional result. This subject is fully considered in connection with diseases of the tarsus (see Vol. III.). Of Cases in wliicli there is an Unopened Abscess. —The abscess may originate in connection with either tuberculous periostitis or deposits in the interior of a bone which have made their way to the surface. The best treatment, when it can be done, is to excise the abscess as if it were a cyst, and at the same time to remove the diseased periosteum along with the superficial layer of the bone, or to clear out any deposit that may be present in the interior. Excision of an Abscess connected with Bone.—A good example is tuberculous disease of a rib ; in the ribs the majority of cases com- mence in the periosteum, and are examples of tuberculous periostitis. When the abscess is large it is not always possible to be sure at first which rib is affected. A free incision is made over the abscess, parallel to the rib, the skin and subcutaneous tissues are turned aside, and the muscular fibres separated from the abscess wall. This, however, is not always possible, for the muscle may be involved in, or adherent to, the abscess wall. In the latter case the muscular fibres are divided, and the abscess is carefully defined without puncturing it, until it is ascertained which rib it is attached to. This rib is then exposed beyond the limits of the