L 2 WOUNDS—INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS When there is continuous oozing from a vein as it passes through dense fibrous tissue or lies in the periosteum where it cannot be picked up and tied, the best plan is to pass a curved needle threaded with a double thread of catgut under the bleeding point, and then to tie the ligatures, one above and one below the bleeding point, thus including both the vein and a portion of the surrounding fibrous tissue. As a rule, however, in venous bleeding there is not much trouble, and, with the exception of the axillary, the femoral or the renal veins, tliere need be no hesitation in tying and dividing them. Even in the case of the extremities, the swelling of the limb resulting from ligature of the main vein is often much less than one would expect. Of Entry of Air.—This has been already referred to in Vol. I. ; it is comparatively rare nowadays, but is most likely to occur in connec- tion with the veins about the root of the neck, and hence in operating in that region every care must be taken to apply pressure immediately at or l)elow any wound or puncture that may be inflicted upon any of the larger veins ; while the pressure on the proximal side is kept up, the bleeding point should be clamped as quickly as possible. This dangerous complication can be further guarded against, by making a sufficiently large incision, so that the mass has not to be pulled up forcibly to get access to it (a proceeding which puts the veins on the stretch, and so renders any opening into them unduly patent), and also by taking care to clamp veins, especially on the proximal side, before they are divided. When air is sucked in—an occurrence usually indicated by a characteristic hissing sound—pressure should be at once applied to the proximal end of the vein, and the wound flooded with lotion so as to prevent more air entering. The treatment in cases where air has entered will be found in Vol. I. p. 123. Among the remote complications of wounds of veins are phlebitis, thrombosis, and possibly embolism. If the thrombus be septic, it may break down, and portions may become detached and lead to abscesses in various parts of the body (see Pyaemia, Vol. I. Chap. IX.). Secondary haemorrhage may also occur from a wound in a vein, but this is very rare nowadays, and generally only takes place in septic wounds in which the clot breaks down and the blood escapes from the end of the vein that is thus allowed to reopen. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Inflammation of a vein or phlebitis is a very common affection, both as a primary disease and as a secondary complication. PHLEBITIS AND THROMBOSIS. By phlebitis is meant inflammation of a vein, and by thrombosis the formation of a coagulum, either white or red, or both, within the lumen