384 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES Another arrangement that may be employed is a Maclniyre's splint directed somewhat away from tlie middle line, bent at the knee, with- out a foot-piece, and raised sufficiently to bring the fragments into line. The leg should lie on the splint with the foot somewhat everted and not bandaged to it (see Fig. i88). Weight and pulley extension, ranging from five to ten pounds according to the muscularity of the patient, is then applied in the long axis of the thigh by means of strapping around the latter. FRACTURES NEAR THE CENTRE OF THE SHAFT. In these fractures the upper fragment is also pulled forward but not nearly to so great an extent as in the fracture higher up. The lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards behind and rather to the outer side of the upper ; this produces a well-marked bowing forwards and outwards of the thigh (see Fig. i86). There is generally considerable shortening. TRBATMBlsTT.—In Adults.—In our opinion immediate operation upon fractures of the shaft of the femur should be resorted to much more frequently than is usually the case. Shortening of the limb in adults is a great disadvantage and can be completely avoided by operation, whilst it is rare to get much less than three-quarters of an inch of shortening even after the most careful treatment with splints. Moreover, even when the ends of the bones have been brought into apposition, angular deformity may occur, and this constitutes a disability and is, of necessity, accompanied by shortening. Therefore, when a radiogram shows that the surgeon has failed to interlock the fragments after a thorough attempt under an anaesthetic, he should operate at once. Even if he has succeeded, the case must be carefully watched, to see that no angular deformity occurs, and that the fragments do not slip out of place again. Either of these accidents should be an indication for immediate operation. Delay only serves to increase the difficulty of the case, as the muscles and fasciae around the seat of the fracture rapidly become shortened and infiltrated, and this renders the task of getting the fractured ends into apposition much more difficult. Operative Methods.—A special assistant is always required in these cases to manipulate the leg and to exert traction upon it. Counter- extension may be maintained by another assistant, or by a weU-padded perineal band attached to the top of the operating table. The strictest antiseptic precautions are imperative throughout, as the least defect in this respect may lead to deep-seated sepsis of a disastrous nature. The limb should be shaved and disinfected from the groin to the ankle, front and back, and all but the intended area of operation should be closely enveloped in sterile towels. The incision, which will be best planned after ascertaining by means of a stereoscopic radiogram what is the most direct route by which to approach it, will generally be made along