177 ANEURYSM circumstances in the large arteries has been accurately estimated by these authors, but in actual ])ractice it can only be gauged by experience. As a matter of fact it is almost always possible to tell when the internal and middle coats rupture, as the\' can be distinctly felt to give way. In large \essels such as the innominate it is very difficult to avoid a certain amount of relaxation of the first half of the reef or surgical knot at the moment of tying the second half when a single round ligature is used, and Ballance and Edmunds have therefore recommended that in its place two at least should be used, and should be applied in the foHowing manner : The two ligatures are first passed around the vessel side by side, and the first loop of a reef or surgical knot is made in each separately in the same direction, but without constricting the vessel. The two ends of the ligatures on each side are then seized together and tightened simul- taneously. In an artery such as the innominate, it will be found that with the ligatures so applied and tightened smiultaneously instead of independently, it is as much as the sur- geon can do to rupture the coats. Hence, if they be tied firmly until, as far as can be judged, the coats are well pressed together, the lumen of the artery will be obliterated without any risk of rupturing the coats. The knot is then completed by tying the two ends on each side together in the second half instead of separately as is done in the first half (see Fig. 64). There is no risk of a knot of this kind—which Ballance and Edmunds call a ' stay-knot '—undergoing relaxation as the second half of the knot is tied., and therefore no channel is left in the artery through wliich blood can find its way. The Material for the Ligature.—This should be very pliable, soft, and slowly absorbable. Absorption should take jjilace in from three to six months. Of the \'arious materials recommended we need only mention silk, catgut, and kangaroo tendon. Of these, silk is the most certain as regards the firmness of the knot and the slow absorption of the ligature, but at the same time it sometimes happens that it causes more irritation than is desirable, and the majority of surgeons therefore employ either catgut or kangaroo tendon. In the ordinary twisted or plaited silk a hard knot is formed, which is undoubtedly a source of irritation, and there- lore if silk is to be employed, the soft floss silk ligature is the best, as it overcomes these objections almost entirely. Unless calgtit be specially II. ' N A B Fig. 64.—Method of tvi.\g a ' Stay-Knot.' In A the first loop of two ligatures lying side by side on the vessel has been tied. B shows the mode of finishing the knot. The two ends on each side are seized together as one and tied into the second loop of the knot. (Ballance and Edmunds.)