INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 47 where, the most common seats being the glandulse concatenatee, the suboccipital and epitrochlear glands which become enlarged and firm. Small sclerosed glands are also sometimes found in the tertiary stage ; a gummatous condition has been described, but is very rare. Treatment.—The treatment of these conditions is the general treat- ment of syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XL), no local treatment being called for. TUBERCULOUS ADENITIS. Tuberculosis is a very frequent and important form of glandular disease. It most commonly occurs before twenty years of age, but is not uncommon at other ages, and is even met with at an advanced period of life. The glands most commonly affected are the cervical, the bronchial and the mesenteric groups. The glands are frequently affected second- arily to tuberculous ulcers on the skin or mucous membranes. In the case of the cervical, bronchial, and mesenteric glands, however, there may be no lesion at the point of entrance of the bacillus, the virus passing straight through the mucous membranes to the glands. In the earlier stages of tuberculous gland disease there are found small discrete tubercles which subsequently run together, undergo soften- ing, and then lead to a chronic abscess ; they may, however, become caseous and gradually diminish in size, being finally impregnated with calcareous salts. Although from external examination only one or two glands ma}^ appear to be enlarged, as a rule a large number are affected ; this is an important fact to bear in mind. The glands form ovoid, firm, indolent masses, which are often painless, and at first freely mobile. At a later stage peri-adenitis may occur, and then the glands become matted together and gradually form a large lobulated or nodular mass. This is, perhaps, the most usual condition, at any rate it is common when suppuration is about to occur. In a still later stage the glands undergo softening, the capsule is broken through, and the disease spreads in the cellular tissue and towards the skin in the manner described in speaking of chronic abscess (see Vol. I. P- 233). When these abscesses burst, they leave tuberculous ulcers with sinuses leading down to cheesy glands. They are slow in healing, and very unsightly scars are left when this finally takes place. All the stages of the evolution of the tuberculous process may be present in the same mass of glands. TREATMENT.—We shall consider the appropriate treatment : (i) when the glands are isolated and there is no peri-adenitis ; (2) when they have become matted together ; (3) when abscess is present ; (4) when abscesses have burst, and have left sinuses and ulcers. When Peri-adenitis is Absent.—When the glands are isolated mobile and small, and there is no peri-adenitis or tendency to softening, no surgical interference is necessary at first. The general treatment of tuberculosis (see Vol. I. p. 231) should be attended to, residence at the