192 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS axis, whilst distal compression has very rarely produced any beneficial result. Laparotomy has been performed several times for the cure of these aneurysms ; the sac has been filled with wire (see p. 187); or Matas's operation (see p. 182) has been done. ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. Aneurysm of the innominate is not a common affection, and is not easy to diagnose. An aneurysm of the arch of the aorta, or of the lower part of the right carotid or subclavian arteries may readily simulate an aneurysm of the innominate trunk, and moreover, it should always be remembered that the dilatation of the innominate is often only a part of a general dilatation of the vessels. When the aneurysm is small, the situation of the tumour may assist the diagnosis. In an innominate aneurysm the swelling rises in the neck above the supra-sternal notch, whilst in an aneurysm of the first part of the carotid it usually appears between the sternal and clavicular heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; in an aneurj^sm of the first part of the subclavian it is on the outer side of that muscle. When the aneurysm is large, however, the swelUng in each case occupies about the same position, and then the diagnosis is mainly made by observing the character of the pulsation in the terminal branches of the innominate. If the pulses in both the axillary and the carotid are delayed and feebler than on the opposite side, it is probable that the innominate trunk is affected, whereas if the pulses in these two arteries differ from one another, it shows that the aneurysm affects one branch of it only. The aneurysm steadily increases in size and gives rise to pressure symptoms, chiefly manifested in the neighbourhood of the trachea. It enlarges upwards and forwards eroding the sterno-clavicular joint, and giving rise to a swelling at the root of the neck on the right side. It most frequently bursts through the skin, but rupture may take place into the trachea or the pleural cavity. TREATMENT.—Distal Ligature.—Numerous attempts have been made to cure innominate or supposed innominate aneurysm by distal ligature, and these attempts ha^'e sometimes been followed by success in sacculated cases. The distal ligature is applied to the common carotid and the third part of the subclavian on the right side simultaneously. If an interval be allowed to elapse between the two operations, the collateral circulation is generally so far enlarged that there is comparatively little diminution in the flow of blood through the aneurysmal sac. In some cases it has also been found necessary to ligature the vertebral artery at the same time, but there is considerable risk attending the performance of this operation, as it interferes markedly with the cerebral circulation, which is already considerably diminished by ligature of the common carotid. It is, moreover, an extremely difficult operation, because the sac