ANEURYSM i8i too close to the ligature, tlie amount of clot available for tne prevention ot secondary haemorrhage was too small. Nowadays this is a point of no importance, because sepsis does not occur, the ligature does not separate, and, consequently, the size of the clot is immaterial. The Hunterian Operation.—In this operation the artery is ligatured at some distance above the aneurysm. In the earlier operations done by John Hunter popliteal aneurysm was the affection treated, and the femoral artery was ligatured in Hunter's canal. At the present time the usual situation for the application of the Hunterian ligature for popliteal aneurysm is the apex of Scarpa's triangle, where the artery is superficial and readily accessible. After the vessel has been ligatured, pulsation in the aneurysm ceases, the blood comes to a standstill in the sac, and, being in contact with clot, undergoes coagulation. Changes then take place in the coagulum which lead to obliteration of the aneurysm and its con- version into a fibrous mass, which ultimately shrinks and almost dis- appears. While this is the usual result, it occasionally happens that the Hunterian operation fails to cure the aneurysm, particularly when the collateral circulation has developed freely before operation, and when, consequently, blood re-enters the arterv below the ligature, and the circulation through the aneurysm is rapidly restored. It is not uncommon in popliteal aneurysm treated by the Hunterian ligature to find that pulsation recurs in the sac after two or three days from the establishment of the collateral circulation, but this gradually ceases, as a rule, and the aneurysm ultimately consolidates. In some cases, however, the amount of blood which passes into the sac is excessive, and the cure fails. Distal Ligature.—The ap[)lication of a ligature to the trunk of the \-essel or its m.iin branches on the distal side of the .aneurysm is useful when neither the old operation nor the proximal ligature can be employed. It is, for example, specially suitable for aneurysms in which the vessel cannot be occluded between the aneurysm and the heart, such as those at the root of the neck, particularly the innom.inate, the first part of the subclavian or the carotid arteries, and it has been used in some cases of aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. The object of the procedure is either to arrest the current of blood circulating through the aneurysm entirely by cutting off the branches which emerge from it, or at any rate, to retard it to such an extent that the deposition of laminated clot can go on more rapidly and thus bring about a cure. On the whole, the results attending it are poor. The ' Old Operation.'—In this operation the sac is opened and the clots are cleared out as completely as possible after the vessel has been ligatured above and below the orifice of communication. A recent addition to this operation is extirpation of the sac. This operation has come into favour for two principal reasons : in the first place it cures the aneurysm with certainty ; in the second, it is less likely to be followed by gangrene than any other procedure in the case of a large