48o AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES care to remove all the ligaments and muscles around, or Berger's amputa- tion (see p. 525) may be necessary if the disease has spread on to the ligaments and scapula. MYELOID SARCOMATA practically only occur in connection with bone. They are chiefly met with in the lower end of the femur, the lower end of the tibia, and the lower jaw. They are the least malignant of all the sarcomata ; in fact it is an open question whether they ever give rise to secondary deposits, and therefore the treatment need not be so drastic as that of the other forms. Treatment.—It is now recognised that in many cases these growths may be scooped out of the bone without recurrence taking place, but in doing this it is necessary to be quite sure that all the soft tissue has been removed. Sometimes this is not feasible when the myeloid sarcoma has been in existence for some time, because, after the growth has been scooped out, no bone is left behind. In these cases it is well to amputate, but the operation need only be done through the bone at a short distance above the tumour. A tourniquet should be put on the limb to minimise the bleeding during the scooping out of the tumour, otherwise this may be excessive. If the bleeding ceases readily at the end of the operation, the soft parts may be united without a drainage tube. When the oozing is severe, it may be necessary to fiU the cavity with very hot water and elevate it in order to check the bleeding, and in these cases a drainage tube wiU be required for the first forty-eight hours. SECONDARY TUMOURS, As a rule there is no object in operating upon the secondary malignant tumours of bones, such as epitheliomata or carcinomata, for their occur- rence implies such general infection of the body that it is not worth while subjecting the patient to the risk of operation. Therefore, the treatment in these cases consists in applying proper apparatus, with the view of steadying the part should fracture have occurred, and of reUeving the pain, or of trying such expedients as radium, Coley's fluid. X-rays, etc.