FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS A Complicated fracture is one that is associated with some other injury such as a wound in the skin not communicating with the bone, or injuries to vessels, nerves or joints. Fractures are still further subdivided according to the variations in direction of the line of fracture, as transverse, oblique, and spiral fractures. When the bone is broken up into a number of small pieces, the term comminuted fracture is usually applied. In multiple fractures there is either more than one fracture in an individual bone, or more than one bone broken. In an impacted fracture one end of the broken bone is driven into, and, to a certain extent, splits up the other fragment. A greensiick fracture is one in which, owing to the bone being softer and less brittle, the fracture is incomplete, some of the fibres being torn, while others are merely bent. Epiphyseal Separation.—Besides these forms of true fracture there is the injury known as ' separation of the epiphysis,' which is met with most commonly in childhood, but which may occur up to the age of twenty- five. It is rare for the plane of separation to be confined to the epiphyseal cartilage, as the term suggests ; the line of fracture generally runs through the spongy layer of the shaft immediately in contact with the epiphysis. Sometimes there are only a few bony spicules left attached to the separated epiphysis, but more commonly there are definite bony plaques, or the plane of fracture may leave the diaphyseo-epiphyseal junction and run for a considerable distance in the shaft of the bone. There are other forms of fracture of slight importance, from the point of view of treatment, which occur especially in the flat bones ; the commonest are fissures, indentations, starred and depressed fractures. DISPLACEMENT.—When a bone undergoes fracture, the frac- tured ends are generally displaced upon one another ; it is compara- tively rare for a fracture to be unaccompanied by any displacement. The chief displacements are angular displacements, in which the fragments are inclined at an angle to each other ; lateral displacements, in which the fractured ends remain in apposition to some extent, but are displaced to the side ; riding or overlapping of the fragments, which is especially common in oblique fractures, one fragment being pushed up in front of or behind the other ; rotation of one fragment around its vertical axis ; and separation of the fragments, which is most often seen in fractures of the patella and tlie olecranon. The displacement in a fracture is due to the force which produces the injury, to the contraction of muscles inserted into the fragments, or to the weight of the limb. In most cases the primary displacement is deter- mined by the direction and force of the injury producing the fracture. The displacement is comparatively slight in fractures due to direct violence, whilst it is very marked in those produced by indirect ^'iolence. This show^s that primarily, at any rate, it is not due so much to muscular contraction as to the direction of the force. On the other hand, in most