AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG end of the outer incision, which is left open for the drain, and serves admirably for the purpose, as it leads directly from the cut surfaces of the bones and is dependent in position, from the circumstance that the limb reposes on its outer side. Accurate stitching is desirable elsewhere in consequence of the disproportion of the sizes of the two flaps which, however, is diminished by making a short posterior flap as advised.' In raising the anterior flap, care must be taken to avoid damage to the anterior tibial artery which lies immediately upon the front of the interosseous membrane. Therefore the knife must not be used more than is absolutely necessary in this situation, and the tissues should be peeled oft" the menilirane by means of the fingers or the handle of the knife. Before saw- ing the bones the interosseous mem- brane is divided with the knife. 1 f the end of the tibia be rounded oft, as directed above, the stump soon becomes able to bear considerable pressure, as the skin over the ends of the bones becomes thickened and closely resembles that upon the sole of the foot. The cicatrix is pulled well up out of the way behind by the contraction of the posterior muscles. AMPUTATION AT THE ' SEAT OF ELECTION.' Fig. 250.—Amputation of the Leg at the ' Seat of Election ' by the ' Hooded Flap.' The dotted line across the tibia shows the level at which the bones are divided. It will be seen that the incision shown above is notched in front, and does not run transversely across the limb as de- scribed in the text. The notching facilitates the raising of the flaps, and maybe used when a bucket stump is to be worn. Here the bones are usually divided about a hand's breadth below the top of the tibia. Various operations have been described, the one that we prefer being by means of a ' hooded flap ' fashioned somewhat after the manner of Stephen Smith's flaps for amputation at the knee-joint see p. 545). The operation is performed as follows : The sturgeon, standing upon the patient's right side, places his left thumb upon the crest of the tibia at the spot at which he desires to divide the bones, whilst the fore- finger is placed in the centre of the calf about three inches higher up.