413 FRACTURES OF THE TIBIA ALONE fasten the fragments together (see p. 305). At the end of a fortnight the leg may be put up in a Croft's splint, and a perfect result should be obtained. Hessing's splint (see p. 375) may also be used at this time and enables the patient to get about. If the effusion be so great as to threaten the vitality of the skin, the limb may be fixed either in well-padded lateral poroplastic splints, not bandaged on too firmly, or, still better, in what is termed a ' box splint.' This box splint, or ' fracture box,' is also a very convenient form of apparatus for fractures of both bones of the leg, and is constructed as follows : Two pieces of wood as broad as the antero-posterior diameter of the leg, and long enough to extend from the tuberosity of the tibia to three inches beyond the sole, are rolled up in opposite ends of a sheet as broad as the splints are long, until they almost meet in the middle. The leg is then placed upon the sheet in the interval thus left, and the splints are turned up on each side, all hollows between the Hmb and the splints being filled with wool pads. The sheet between the two splints supports the back of the leg and the heel, and an extra pad should be placed just above the latter. The splints are fastened on with webbing straps and buckles, and a bandage is applied outside them ; the whole apparatus is then slung in a cradle, the knee being bent nearly to a right angle (see Fig. 205). No pressure is exerted upon the damaged skin by this splint, and by unbuckling the straps the seat of fracture can be exposed without disturbance. Blisters containing blood-stained fluid are often present in these cases; if they occur, the skin should be disinfected (see Vol. I. p. 100), the blisters punctured, and boric ointment applied over them. The blisters will heal and the swelling will subside in a few days, unless gangrene is going to occur ; after they have healed, the limb may be put into a Croft's splint. The box splint might be used throughout, but the Croft is certainly more convenient as soon as there is no longer any risk of pressure. The splint should be kept on for about six weeks. TREATMENT OF A COMMINUTED FRACTURE.—A CDmminutcd fracture, is often accompanied by injury to, and subsequent sloughing of, the skin. The treatment is similar in all respects to that just described. Should it be evident that the skin will slough, the neighbour- hood of the fracture must be rigidly cleansed ; cyanide gauze dressings should be applied daily. Should the skin recover, a Croft's splint may be applied after a week or ten days ; should the skin slough, the treat- ment will be that for gangrene due to crusliing (see Vol. I. p. 69). Union will usually occur in about six weeks ; special care should be taken to see that it is quite firm before the j^atient is allowed to get about, except in the cases in which Hessing's spUnt (see p. 375) is employed; in this the patient can walk freely. As these fractures are at some distance from the joints, there is no very great risk of stiffness either at the ankle or the knee ; but it is well