53 CONTRACTIONS—NEW GROWTHS or rheumatism, and which has been already described (see Vol. I. p. 289). Contraction of the fascia from pressure is also seen in the hand, as the result of using instruments which constantly exert pressure on a particular part of the palm. Probably a certain amount of inflammation is set up in this way, and this leads to contraction of the fascia. A similar condition produced by immobilisation is sometimes met with after fractures or joint disease, while the effects of prolonged faulty position are well marked in cases of infantile paralysis, where, for example, the front part of the foot drops as a result of paralysis of the anterior muscles of the leg, and a secondary contraction of the plantar fascia follows and interferes with proper extension of the foot. In the case of fractures and joint disease, inflammation probably plays some part in the production of the con- traction of the fascia, while, in the case of infantile paralysis, it may be largely a question of imperfect development. TREATMENT.—As a general rule the contraction may be remedied by subcutaneous division. A tenotome, which should have a sharp point and a cutting edge of not more than a quarter of an inch in length, is introduced flatwise between the fascia and the skin while the parts are lax. The cutting edge is turned towards the fascia; this is put upon the stretch, and the part beneath the edge of the knife is divided by nicking it with the point. When one band has been cut, fresh resisting bands start into prominence, and so the knife is pushed on in various direc- tions until all tight bands are divided. Sometimes the division can be completed through one puncture ; generally a number of separate ones will be required. The contracted fascia usually consists of a number of tight bands, and not of an even continuous layer ; it is therefore of im- portance to use a tenotome with a small cutting blade, and to do most of the division by nicking the contracted bands with the point, for fear of damaging important underlying structures. When as much as possible has been done by the knife, the part is thoroughly stretched, so as to tear any portions that may have escaped division, and the limb is put up in the stretched position in a suitable apparatus, or a plaster of Paris case is applied ; this is kept on for some weeks or months, imtil, in fact, contraction in connection with the healing process has ceased. Detailed treatment for certain special cases, such as club-foot and Dupuytren's contraction of the palmar fascia, has already been given (see Vol. I.). NEW GROWTHS. New growths in connection with fasciae are not uncommonly met with. The most frequent are fibromata, which often begin in the dense fibrous tissues. Sarcomata, more especially of the spindle- celled variety, also occur. The treatment of these has been referred to in Vol. I. Chap. XIII.