AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS 48 sea-side, or in a part of the country which suits the patient, the use of cod-liver oil, sea-water baths, and plenty of fresh air being the most important. These patients are often benefited by a prolonged stay at the seaside or in the country, but they must be kept under constant supervision, so that if an operation becomes necessary owing to the progress of the disease, the most favourable time for its performance may not be missed. Arsenic is of value in some cases ; the ordinary dose of liquor arsenicalis (which will vary according to the age of the patient) should be increased gradually until the patient is taking one just short of that necessary to produce toxic symptoms. The treatment by tuberculin (see Vol. I. p. 522) is very commonly employed for these cases. Local applications such as iodine are best avoided ; it is doubtful whether they do good, whilst they certainly seem to precipitate suppura- tion when peri-adenitis is present. Ointments cannot be recommended. When the glands are situated in parts of the body subject to movement, as in the groin, rest must be enjoined, and, if necessary, the part must be fixed with splints and bandages. When, however, the glands are large, and cause deformity, or when they are increasing in size and number, it is advisable to excise them, even though they are not actually breaking down. This point is dealt with more fuUy in connection with tuberculosis of the cervical glands (see Vol. III.). When Peri-adenitis is Present,—When the glands are becoming matted together into a large nodular mass, suppuration is apt to occur in some portion of it ; therefore, if the condition persists or increases after a short period devoted to a trial of general treatment, much subse- quent trouble and unsightly scarring will be avoided by proceeding to excise the glands without further delay. It is true that a certain pro- portion of these cases recover perfectly under good hygienic conditions without operative interference ; but suppuration occurs in the large majority, and then the operation becomes very difficult. If, however, it be performed before an abscess of any size is present, no skin need be taken away, and a delicate linear cicatrix is left which becomes practically unnoticeable in course of time. The operation must be thorough ; not only should all the enlarged glands be removed, but with them should be taken all the smaller ones in the neighbourhood, even though they may not be visibly tuberculous. In order to get the most successful result, the whole of the fat and glands in the vicinity should be removed, if possible, in one mass. For example, in the case of the anterior triangle of the neck, all the fat and glands under the sterno-mastoid and along the course of the jugular vein should be dissected out. The steps of the operation for removal of tuberculous glands in the neck are described in full detail in Vol. III. When there is an Unopened Abscess.—When the abscess is of moderate size, and does not involve any extensive area of the skin, the