AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 270 they will shrink sufficiently to leave a slight gap down the middle line in front when they are in contact behind. The lateral halves of the sphnt should not overlap behind, and they should lie evenly without creases along the side of the limb, so that, when the bandage is applied, they are moulded smoothly to its surface. The bedclothes and carpets or floor of the room should be protected from the plaster by means of mackintoshes, sheets or newspaper, and the surgeon should wear a large apron to protect his own clothes. He will find it well to oil his hands, or to wear cotton gloves before mixing the plaster. Common brown sugar, rubbed well over the hands as they are washed, facilitates the removal of plaster from the hands, but gloves are more satisfactory, as they prevent the roughening of the skin that so often follows the use of plaster. The splint is a very valuable one, and in many cases has great advan- tages over any other plan. It is simple, the materials are readily obtainable, it can be applied with extreme rapidity, and, as it takes its purchase from the bony prominences of the limb, to which it fits perfectly, the fracture is absolutely immobilised without undue pressure anywhere ; spasm ceases almost immediately it is applied. It is extremely comfortable, and not only is the sense of cold produced during the drying of the plaster agreeable to the patient, but the slight contraction that takes place tends to restrain the effusion. It is best suited for fractures of the leg; it is not to be recommended in the thigh owing to the difficulty of getting proper purchase upon the bony prominences of the trunk. It may be used for many compound fractures as well as simple ones, as it is easy to change dressings beneath it, the limb being held firmly in one half of the splint by an assistant, whilst the other half is turned back and the dressing changed. In compound fractures, however, in which large dressings are necessary on account of the amount of discharge, it is perhaps better to employ some other method (see p. 286). An objection, sometimes urged against this splint, is that, if applied when the limb is much swollen, it is too large when the swelling subsides. This can be met by leaving a larger interval than usual between the edges of the splints in front ; when the swelling subsides, it will only be necessary to bandage the splints more closely together. Another objection, viz., that there is a risk of gangrene of the limb or sloughing of the parts over the fracture, should there be an increase of effusion beneath the unyielding case, can be obviated by the most ordinary care. The splint should be opened up as described above, directly any symptoms of pressure are manifest. Of these the condition of the toes is the most reliable. Should the toes become livid or should they tingle or be numb, the splint should be opened immediately. If there be great and increasing pain referred to the seat of fracture, the splint should also be opened at once and the pressure relieved. In any case the splint should be cut up at the end of twenty-four hours as a matter of routine, and re-bandaged, after the fracture has been inspected.