158 AFFECTIONS OF VEINS Trendelenburg's operation is performed in the following manner: The thigh is flexed, abducted, and externally rotated at the hip joint, so that it occupies a position similar to that in which it is placed for ligaturing the femoral artery. The spine of the pubes is identified, and a curved transverse or an oblique incision (see Fig. 56), two inches long, is made across the Hne of the saphenous vein about two inches below the pubic spine. A flap of skin and subcutaneous tissue is raised towards Poupart's ligament so as to expose the vein, just before it passes through the saphenous opening. As soon as the vein has been exposed, the _ dissection is carried out close to it, so as to disturb the fat as little as possible, and thereby avoid leaving a cavity beneath the skin flap. The vein is isolated for a distance of two inches. A ligature is placed on its upper end, half an inch below its junc- tion with the femoral vein, and a second ligature is placed at the lower end of the exposed portion. The inter- vening portion is removed. The vein is more readily found by making a transverse instead of a lon- gitudinal incision. Two or three tribu- taries may require to be tied, and the vein should be divided at least one- third of an inch below the upper ligature, so that if the patient strains or coughs, the ligature shall not be detached. Such an accident would be followed by severe haemorrhage. Various other operations have been described, but none, with the possible exception of Mayo's, are as efficient or as simple as that just described. Mayo's Subcutaneous Enucleation.—The saphenous vein is exposed near to the saphenous opening, and divided between two Ugatures. The distal end is clamped with a pair of pressure forceps and passed through the loop of a special dissector (Fig. 57). The dissector is pushed along the vein as far as possible towards the knee and then a short incision is made over the end of the dissector to expose it and the vein. The latter is pulled out of the wound, hgatured and divided, and the loose portion removed. A similar procedure is carried out on any other veins which require to be dealt with. If the passage of the dissector through the subcutaneous tissues be hindered by the vein being adherent, a special forceps is introduced along it with the blades closed. On reaching the Fig. 56.—^The Incision for Trendelen- burg's Operation.