AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES 70 portion below this incision is then pulled down until only the apices of the serrations or V's on the two sides of the incision remain in contact; the adjacent sides of the serrations on each side of the gap are then stitched together, so that the muscular fibres terminate in blunt cones, alternately above and below the oiiginal zig-zag incision. The apices of these cones are then stitched together (see Fig. 19). In all these cases it is important to divide all adhesions between the muscle and the surrounding tissues at the time of the operation, as otherwise proper movement will not be obtained afterwards. Afler-treatmeni.—The stretching of the muscle must be carried out more slowly and carefully than after a recent rupture, but usually the limb can be extended to its fullest extent after about six or eight weeks, and the splint can then be left off. The patient may be allowed to walk in about ten weeks after the operation. ADHESION OF MUSCLES TO BONES. The torn muscular fibres sometimes become united to the ends of the bone in fractures ; sometimes the bones are displaced, and the muscle becomes adherent to them, although the muscular fibres are not markedly damaged. The result of this is that the subsequent action of the muscles may be greatly impeded and imperfect movement of the joint may result. TREATMENT.—A good deal maybe done to get rid of these adhe- sions by massage in the early stages of this condition; this is especially the case when the muscles have not been ruptured. When a muscle has been ruptured, however, or when a considerable time has elapsed before the patient comes under observation, it is usually necessary to have recourse to operative interference. Operation.—A curved incision (see p. 66) is made, the fracture ex- posed, and the muscle carefully detached from the bone. If the ends 01 the bones be much displaced, it may be necessary to chisel away pro- jecting portions, or to divide the union and bring the bones into proper position if there be considerable deformity. When there has been no rupture of the muscular fibres, the wound is closed, and massage is begun and full movements encouraged as soon as healing is complete. When, however, the muscle has been ruptured, and the ruptured ends have become adherent to the broken bones, the former must be detached care- fully and all fibrous tissue cut away from between the divided ends, which are then united in the manner already described (see p. 63). Should this condition be recognised in recent fractures, early operation has the further advantage that the bones can be fixed in good position ; this point is dealt with fully in connection with the treatment of Fractures.