AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 314 scapulae do not rest upon it; the weight of the shoulder thus carries the outer fragment backwards more completely than could be done in any other way. The elbow is raised and fastened to the side. This position must be maintained for a fortnight ; it is irksome, and few patients will submit to it. It is imperative, however, when both clavicles are frac- tured, and where, therefore, there is no sound shoulder from which to support the elbow. The Handkerchief Method.—An excellent method is the old plan of pull- ing back the shoulders by means of two triangular handkerchiefs. Each handkerchief is folded to its centre over a roll of cotton wool a foot long, which is placed in the middle of the handkerchief; in fact, the handkerchiefs are prepared much in the same way as is a perineal band and are fastened loosely around each shoulder, passing beneath the axilla and over the point of the shoulder without encroaching upon the seat of fracture. The ends of the handkerchiefs are tied together behind the back between the scapulae ; in this way the shoulders can be puUed back to any degree required. The axiUa should be shaved and powdered over with boric acid, and the arm supported by a large hand- FiG. 140.—Apparatus for pulling back the Shoulders kerchicf shng, which raiseS IN Fractured Clavicle. The loops are made by encasing i <• j 1 wool in several folds of muslin, and the requisite amount of and pUshcS forward the retraction of the shoulders is easily regulated by the strap and i ■ r , i i buckle connecting them. clbow and IS fastened round the neck over the sound shoulder. A third handkerchief binds the arm to the side passing around the trunk just above the level of the elbow (see Fig. 139). The pressure of the knot in the middle of the back, which is very irksome, may be avoided by sewing the ends of the handkerchiefs together instead of knotting them, or by adopting the method illustrated in Fig. 140 where the shoulder loops are buckled together, and the tension can be varied at will. For adults we prefer this method to all others, at any rate during the early stages, as it reheves the pressure upon the nerves more completely than any other. After-treatment.—Gentle massage to the area of the fracture should be practised from the first. The apparatus may need tightening from time