FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES OF THE LEG result is superior to that obtained by splints, whilst the after-treatment gives no trouble. The best incision is a curved one over the inner surface of the bone with its convexity backwards, extending well beyond the inner border of the tibia. This flap should be turned forwards until the whole breadth of the inner surface of the tibia is displayed. When the seat of fracture has been exposed, all blood-clot, small fragments of bone or portions of soft tissues that may have got between the fractured ends should be removed. The broken ends are then united by means of plates (see Fig. 210). To facilitate the drilling of the bone, a special form of forceps has been devised which holds the fractured ends in accurate ap- position, whilst the bone is being bored (see p. 306). The fracture of the fibula does not require fastening. The wound is then stitched up and wire splints are incorporated in the dressings (see p. 265), the foot being fixed at right angles and the knee being also enclosed in the splint. The further treatment is the same as that after any operation for fracture. When the wound has healed, a Croft's or Hessing's splint may be applied, which must not be left off until union has occuri'ed, usually in about three months. It will be necessary to allow a somewhat long period to elapse before the patient is permitted to bear weight on the foot, as union is rather slower in these cases than in fractures not operated upon. Massage should be employed after the first fortnight so as to avoid the oedema which is otherwise likely to occur when the patient is allowed to walk. Apart from the question of the displacement of the fragments, it may be necessary to expose the fracture when the surgeon cannot satisfy him- self that the bony surfaces are properly in contact. It is not uncommon for the upper end of the lower fragment to perforate the muscles, and thus a certain amount of muscular tissue is interposed between the ends of the bones, and proper union is prevented. In other cases the fracture may be comminuted, and a detached portion of bone may become so displaced between the fragments that they are prevented from coming into proper apposition. If, when reducing the fracture therefore, no proper crepitus be found (which would show that there is something interposed between the ends of the bone), or if it be impossible to reduce the fractui^e properly, there is sufficient reason for cutting down upon the fragments, removing the obstacle and fixing the fragments together. When the injury has resulted from direct violence it is not usually necessary to operate, for the displacement is not so marked ; in this case operation will only be called for when the bone is comminuted and some detached portion prevents the fracture being properly set. In all these cases a stereoscopic radiogram is necessarj^ TREATMENT OF A COMPOUND FRACTURE.—Com- pound fractures of both bones of the leg are very common ; they must be treated on the lines already laid down for compound fractures in general.