TRAUMATIC AFFfXTIONS 99 tendon from one of the lower animals may be employed in a similar manner. In tendons, however, the blood-vessels are too few for the new piece to become quickly vascularised in the same manner as a skin-graft, and thus the plan really acts in much the same way as the strands of catgut ]ust described. It is hardly likely that the detached portion of tendon will retain its vitality ; it probably only serves as a guide for the new tissue and as pabulum for the cells. Further, on account of its thickness and size, it is less likely to be eaten up and replaced quickly than is catgut, and, therefore, it is apt to act as a foreign body. When transplantation is employed, lateral stitches holding the two ends of the original tendon in position, and also giving support when the time arrives for passive motion, must be inserted. When all other attempts at uniting the divided ends have proved fruitless, both ends of the divided tendon have been attached to the scar, so that, when the muscle contracts, it pulls upon the scar and, through this, upon the distal end of the tendon. This method should only be adopted when nothing else can be done. RUPTURE OF TENDONS. A tendon may rupture as a result of irregular and violent muscular contraction. For example, when a person in falhng tries to retain his balance, he sometimes ruptures the ligamentum patelte ; indeed, this is more common than rupture of the quadriceps extensor muscle itself. Other tendons which are frequently ruptured are the tendo Achillis, about an inch and a half from its insertion into the os calcis, the plantaris and the long head of the biceps cabiti. THEATMBNT.—This may be carried out either by position, in which the object is to bring the ends into as good apposition as possible, or by operation, in which the ends of the tendon are stitched together. In deciding upon the method to adopt, a good deal will depend upon the tendon ruptured, and the exact point at which the rupture has occurred. For example, union readily follows rupture of the tendo Achillis witliout any need for operative interference ; this is explained by the fact that the tendon runs in loose cellular tissue. On the other hand, rupture of the quadriceps femoris tendon rarely gives a really satisfactory result if treated by position alone. With the latter form of treatment the worst results are obtained in the case of tendons, such as those of the fingers and thumb, wliich run in long rigid tendon sheaths ; in these cases union is rare. This fact must also be borne in mind in performing tenotomy ; these particular tendons should not be divided opposite the fingers or in parts where the ends are free to retract for a long distance ; when possible they should be divided in the forearm. As the treatment must vary with the tendon divided we shall describe H 2