AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 462 HEREDITARY SYPHILITIC LESIONS. The changes in the bones in hereditary syphilis are of great interest; one of the earliest is inflammation of the ends of the long bones, parti- cularly those of the tibia, the humerus, the femur, and the ulna. This affection is often symmetrical, and usually affects the diaphysis in the immediate neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line, the condition often going by the name of ' osteo-chondritis ' or ' syphilitic epiphysitis.' It generally occurs at a very early period of life ; the bone becomes much thickened in the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line, and a tender swelling occurs and forms a collar around the end of the bone. The condition may go on to separation of the epiphysis and destruction of the epiphyseal line. During the first year of life, bosses of spongy bone are seen on the skull near the sutures ; four bosses are often found around the anterior fontaneUe, giving rise to the ' nateform ' skull. At a later period there may be gummatous changes in the bone similar to those which occur in adults, and there may be destruction of the nasal or palate bones. TREATMENT.—The treatment of hereditary syphilis of bone, is similar to that already described for the condition in general (see Vol. I. p. 226). When there is much tenderness about the epiphysis, it is well to put the limb on a splint. RHEUMATIC PERIOSTITIS AND OSTEITIS. Osteitis may also occur as the result of rheumatism, which affects bones as well as joints. Rheumatism chiefly gives rise to periostitis, with condensing osteitis beneath. In some cases the whole thickness of the bone may be involved. TREATMENT.—MedicinaL—In the early stages the affected Hmb should be put on a splint, and blisters applied over the inflamed bone, or Corrigan's cautery used (see Vol. I. p. 21) ; 10 to 30-grain doses of iodide of potassium, or lo-grain doses of salicylate of soda should be given three times a day. Operative.—Should the disease not yield to this treatment, the best plan is to cut down and remove as much of the thickened periosteum as possible, and at the same time to gouge away a portion of the thickened bone ; in these cases it is not necessary to open up the medullary cavity. In cases of so-called ' neuralgic osteitis,' where the pain is intense and probably due to pressure on the nerves in the condensed bone and con- sequent neuritis, free gouging of the affected portion is the only treatment that affords any relief. There is apparently little thickening of the bone in these cases, but marked improvement often follows the operation.