NEURITIS 123 the sound nerve to become diverted to the divided one, and thus to the muscles supplied by it. This method is used with some success in facial paralysis, in which the distal end of the paralysed facial is implanted into the side of the spinal accessory or the hypoglossal nerve. In Fig. 42 is shown a more complicated method suitable for cases in which two parallel nerves, such as the median and ulnar have been divided at different levels, and neither can be sutured end-to-end. It is a combination of the end-to-end suture with lateral implantation. Results.—The success likely to attend nerve-suture depends upon three main factors : iirstly, accurate approximation of the divided ends ; secondly, the length of nerve which has to be regenerated ; and, thirdly, the condition of the muscles at the time regeneration occurs. The length of time which elapses between the division of the nerve and the perform- ance of nerve-suture does not seem to matter to any great extent. Restoration of function is often delayed for twelve months or even two years. Since the success of nerve-suture depends largely upon the con- dition of the muscles at the time when regeneration occurs, it is obviously important that the nutrition of the muscles should be maintained, as otherwise they may be so atrophied as to be incapable of work when regeneration of the nerve has taken place. NEURITIS. Neuritis or inflammation of nerve trunks may be acute or chronic. The acute form generally occurs in connection with a septic wound, or, more rarely, from some constitutional cause ; in most cases neuritis is a chronic affection. The disease may be limited to a single nerve or branch of a nerve, a condition termed local or peripheral neuritis, or many nerves may be affected simultaneously, a condition known as multiple neuritis. The surgeon has only to deal with the peripheral form, which may be due to either a local or a general cause. CAUSES.—(«) Local.—Neuritis may occur in connection with a wound, particularly when this is septic. When it follows an injury it is most frequently due to incomplete division, or to laceration or contusion of a nerve, rather than to complete division by a clean cut. The presence of a foreign body in a wound frequently sets up neuritis, or aggravates the condition, should it have already occurred as a result of sepsis. The disease may also be caused by extension of inflammation from some focus in the neighbourhood. For example, in tuberculous spinal disease the inflammatory process may extend to the nerves as they emerge from the inter-vertebral foramina, or it may follow such an affection as a carious tooth, in which case the inflammation spreads up the nerve and reaches several of its branches. One of the most common local causes of neuritis is pressure; a marked example of this is seen when an aneurysm presses upon some of the large nerve trunks ; the pressure of new growths acts