TRANSVERSE FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA fragments has been removed. We have seen cases in which violent flexion was employed before the fibrous tissue had been taken away ; the result was that the upper fragment of the patella was broken up, owing to the soft atrophied bone being so firmly attached to the femur that it was unable to withstand the pull of the firm fibrous union upon it. The limb is now fully extended, and an attempt is made to bring the upper fragment down into contact with the lower. It is necessary that the fragments should be closely approximated without tension, as otherwise the wire readily cuts its way through the bone, which is often very soft in these old-standing cases. If the upper fragment cannot be drawn down properly, the quadri- ceps should be divided above its junction with the tendon. If the tendon itself be divided, it is apt to unite badly ; its division might also interfere with the blood-supply of the bone. If, however, the muscle be divided, union will occur readily, and no interference with the blood- supply need be feared. Lengthening the Quadriceps Ex- tensor.—Tlie quadriceps should be freely exposed ; if this has not been properly done by the original incision, a median vertical incision should be made from the top of the convex one up the front of the thigh and the two flaps fumed aside. A series of V-shaped incisions are then made through the muscle in an exactly similar manner to that already described for length- ening the triceps in old fractures of the olecranon ; two V's, each limb of which is about two inches in length, are sufficient (see Fig. 203). With an incision made in this manner there is no fear of non-union of tlie muscle. If this does not allow the patella to come down sufficiently, it will probably be on account of adhesions remaining in the supra-patellar pouch, which may be divided by introducing tlie knife on the flat into the pouch and cutting them. When the fragments have been brought into contact, they should be wired together in the manner described for recent fractures (see p. 399) ; Fig. 203.—Method of Lengthening the Quad- riceps Extensor Cruris. This is a preliminary to secondary suture of a fracture of the patella.