153 VARICOSE VEINS is very frequent among shopmen, barmaids, porters, washerwomen, etc. Habitual constipation and the use of tight bands, such as garters around the limb, are also common accessory causes. Gout is said to predispose to this condition. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—Obstruction to the circulation though it usually predisposes to, or aggravates existing varix, is not necessarily of itself the direct cause of the trouble. Before the varicosity develops, the walls of the veins become the seat of a chronic inflammatory condition. The first changes which occur are swelling and thickening of the walls, which lose their elasticity and become too weak to resist the pressure of the blood from above ; the result is distension of the wall and incompetence of the valves of the vein. The veins also elongate, and stand out after a time as dilated and tortuous tubes. The distension is usually irregular, being greater about the valves ; the most dilated portions may distend and thin the skin over them, and, indeed, sometimes burst through it. The chief agent in bringing about the dilation of the veins is the pressure from above due to the weight of the column of blood, which is unsupported by the incompetent valves ; the venous pressure from below is trivial. The subcutaneous tissue affords no real support to the superficial veins, and there is nothing to help them to sustain the weight of the column of blood when the valves have become incompetent. In the deep veins, on the other hand, the contraction of the muscles drives on the blood, and also gives support to the walls of the veins lying beneath and among them ; the reason that prolonged standing leads to varicosity is that the muscles are not then in action, and do not give this support when the patient is erect and the full weight of the blood-column tells on the waU of the veins. The influence of this downward pressure has an important bearing on treatment. VARIETIES.—With regard to treatment, varicose veins may be divided into two distinct classes. In the first only the larger subcuta- neous venous trunks are dilated, and in the second there is a varicose condition of the small veins in the skin itself, with or without dilatation of the main veins. In the latter case the skin of the affected part is mottled with numerous small dilated veinules and this latter condition is the one most often associated with ulceration, and most difficult to relieve. COMPLICATIONS.—When the condition is marked, there is often oedema of the extremities, resulting from the embarrassment of the circu- lation produced by standing and the absence of sufficient muscular movement to force on the blood in the limb, and also from the imperfect nutrition of the tissues. In the earher stages the oedema is only noticeable towards the end of a long day's standing, just above the instep and ankle, and disappears when the patient lies down. Varicose veins are prone to inflammation, and plilcbitis is, therefore