5 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS connection with the hair folHcles, and a boil being a circumscribed gan- grenous inflammation of the skin which probably occurs in connection with the sebaceous glands of the same structures. Boils are small conical, hard and painful swellings, which usually suppurate and give exit to a soft slough, in which are the remains of the hair and the sebaceous structures. They chiefly occur where the hairs are coarse and the sebaceous glands are numerous (with the exception of the hairy scalp), and they are especially frequent on parts which are subject to friction. The organism usualh' found in them is the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. In the early stage of a boil there is a small swelling, in the centre of which appears a vesicle containing rusty-coloured fluid ; from the middle of this a hair generally protrudes. In three or four days the boil de- velops into a bright red, somewhat c(mical swelling, which may at this time abort ; if it does not, it increases in size, its apex becomes yellow from the j)resence of pus, and finalb/ perforation occurs, and the pus escapes. At the bottom of the opening thus formed is a yellowish slough, which is usually cast off about the eighth day, and then healing occurs rapidly. PROGNOSIS.—This is favourable except when some constitu- tional disease, such as diabetes, is present, or when the affection occurs on the face or the lip, in which case it may be followed by serious septic troubles. Lj^mphangitis and inflammation of the neighbouring glands are common, while phlebitis, septic;emia, pyfemia, and ery- sipelas occasionally follow, especially in the case of boils on the face. A boil is often followed by others in the vicinity from local infection, the pus from the original boil being rubbed into the skin bv the friction of the clothes. Sometimes cases of persistent furunculosis are met with. Here the tissues appear to possess an abnormally low resistance to the staphylococcus, and fresh crops of boils are continually arising in different parts. TREATMENT.—Local.—In the early stage a boil may abort if it be left alone and shielded from injury. After the skin has been disinfected, the surface of the boil should be painted with flexile collo- dion e\'ery day, and friction avoided, if necessary, by the employment of a shield. The best form of shield is one made of celluloid (see Fig. i), of sufficient size to protect the inflamed area without pressing on it. If tliere be much pain, warm boric fomentations may be applied beneath the shield. At the same time, general treatment {vide infra) should be employed. With the view of preventing the appearance of fresh boils due to direct infection, steps should be taken from the first to disin- fect the skin in the vicinity of the boil, so as to get rid of any infective material that may have soaked into it. The skin around the boil should be shaved and disinfected, and then an antiseptic