520 AMPUTATIONS be performed in the lower third it will be easier to divide the muscles and tendons by transfixion, and some care will be required to insinuate the point of the knife between the deeper tendons and the bones. In sawing the bones care must be taken to avoid splintering, and they should there- fore be held quite horizontally, and the saw made to cut each bone to the same depth. When the division is nearly complete, the section of the radius should be finished off first, as it is the more movable bone and the ulna can be steadied better. The vessels requiring ligature are the radial, the ulnar, and the interosseous arteries. After the vessels have been secured, the tube of periosteum is pulled down over the ends of the bones and the wound is stitched up, a small drainage tube being inserted at the dependent angle. The object of peeHng up the periosteum is to guard against fusion of the cut ends of the bones, which would involve loss of pronation and supination. The arm is placed upon an internal rectangular splint, with the fore- arm midway between pronation and supination. After about ten days the stitches may be taken out and the splint left ofl'. In all cases the limb should be put up in the above position, so that, should fusion of the ends of the bones occur, the limb is in the most advantageous position for the application of an artificial substitute. DISARTICULATION THROUGH THE ELBOW-JOINT. This is not nearly so often done as is amputation above or below the articulation ; chiefly because the large size of the lower end of the humerus necessitates long flaps, and therefore the operation can only be done when the soft parts at the disposal of the surgeon are compara- tively abundant. It should, however, be performed in preference to amputation through the lower third of the humerus whenever possible, as the increased length of the stump is of advantage, and the expanded end of the bone gives a better point of support for an artificial limb. The operation is usually done for a tumour affecting one or both of the bones of the forearm and sometimes for crushes of the latter ; it will be rarely suitable for elbow-joint disease. In many cases it is found necessary to make irregular flaps, but, when possible, it is best to make a long antero-internal and a short postero- external flap. In providing a covering for the lower end of the humerus it is important to bear in mind the large size and irregular shape of the bone, and also the exact position of the elbow-joint. It is hardly necessary to remark that the level of the latter does not correspond to the tip of the olecranon. The best guide is the head of the radius, the position of which is found by placing the thumb immediately beneath the external condyle and pronating and supinating the forearm. The upper limit of the radial head usually lies about half an inch below the most prominent part of the condyle, and may be taken as a good guide to the level of the joint.