ANEURYSM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY 211 longus colli muscle, and the inferior cervical ganglion. In front, and to its right are the left common carotid artery, the left vagus, the cardiac branch of the sympathetic and the phrenic nerves. The left innominate vein crosses it obliquely, and the left lung and pleura overlap its outer side. The left vagus crosses the lower part of the artery. On its inner side are the trachea, the oesophagus, the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the thoracic duct. On its outer side, it is closely applied to the pleura. At the root of the neck, the internal jugular, vertebral and subclavian veins, the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles, and the phrenic nerve are superficial to it, and the thoracic duct passes obUquely across it. Relations of the Second Part of the Artery.—On both sides this part of Fig. 82.—Ligature of the First Part of the Left Subclavian through a Median Incision. Here the soft parts are pulled over to the left. (F) Deep cervical fascia. (A) subclavian artery. the artery lies behind the scalenus anticus, which separates it from the subclavian vein, which is on a lower level, and also from the phrenic nerve. More superficially, the sterno-mastoid and platysma cover the vessel, and in the subcutaneous tissue the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of it. Behind and below is the pleura ; above is the brachial plexus. Operation.—In aneurysms of the third part of the left subclavian artery the first part of the vessel may be reached by a median incision, and a ligature applied to it immediately after its origin from the aorta, as it hes to the left of the trachea, and before it gives off any branches (see Fig. 82). It may also be reached further out by a vertical incision between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and from this incision it may be tied either close to, or beyond the origin of its branches. On the right side the first part of the subclavian may be exposed and tied by a vertical p 2