378 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES because any efficient arrangement is likely to cause so much friction that the extension is interfered with. A good, though somewhat comphcated, apparatus is shown in Fig. 184. The foot and lower part of the leg are put up on a posterior splint with a foot-piece at right angles, so arranged that it runs in a groove in an iron frame standing upon the bed ; rotation of the limb is thus prevented without undue friction. This apparatus is not easil}' obtainable, however, and the following simple method may be tried. A piece of wood three inches wide and nine inches long is placed behind the knee so that it projects beyond it on each side, and is then fastened firmly to the limb by a plaster of Paris bandage after the rotation has been corrected (see Fig. 185). This is a better apparatus than the long Liston's splint with the transverse bar, which is often used for the same purpose, as it does not interfere so much with the extension. Fig. 184.—Extension Apparatus for Fracture of the Neck of the Femur. The leg is fixed to a back splint which slides in the iron frame shown above. This serves to prevent rotation while securing extension without friction against the bed. Another point of importance is to fix the body so that the patient cannot move the hip-joint, as otherwise movement will occur at the seat of fracture, and union may be interfered with. This is best done by applying a long Liston's sphnt to the sound side ; in addition, a sheet may be placed across the trunk and kept in position by sandbags on either side. The splint is put on the sound side so that it shah not interfere with extension of the fractured limb, or exert undue pressure over the damaged trochanter. "When the patient is not restless the Liston's sphnt is not necessary, and he may be kept steady by passing a broad sheet across the thorax, and keeping it in position by heavy sandbags rolled up in it on each side. After-treatment.—The patient should be kept in the horizontal position for at least six weeks. At the end of that time a Thomas's hip-splint may be fastened on with plaster of Paris bandages and the patient may