FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE HAND 359 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE HAND. FRACTURES OF THE CARPAL BONES. Any of the bones of the hand may be fractured by direct or indirect violence. Direct violence usually takes the form of severe crushes, and the injury is then frequently a complex one and the fracture often com- pound. Indirect violence, generally a fall upon the outstretched hand, most commonly produces a fracture of the scaphoid or semi-lunar bones. This lesion was formerly considered to be very rare, but since the introduction of radiography it has proved to be comparatively common and should be suspected in all cases of severe ' sprained wrists.* Except in the case of severe crushes, fractures of the carpal bones do not lead to much displacement, but in fracture of the scaphoid by indirect violence one of the fragments, usually the upper, is occasionally rotated through a considerable angle, so that the fractured surfaces may be entirely out of apposition. TREATMEISTT.—Tn the case of the severe crushes which are compound, the ordinary treatment of a compound fracture and a wound of the joint is applicable. Any dirt, foreign body, or loose fragment of bone must be removed, and the question of amputation or excision will have to be considered, and will depend upon the amount of injury and on the risk of sepsis. Simple fractures of the carnal bones may easily escape notice unless a radiogram has been taken. Examination imder the screen is not suf- ficient. In uncomplicated cases the wrist-joint must be fixed on an anterior splint in the extended position and cold applications used to diminish the swelling. After two or three days massage end move- ments may be commenced. If a radiogram shows that there is rotation of one of the fragments, as is often the case with fracture of the scaphoid, it is better to expose the bone through a dorsal incision and to remove either the whole bone or the displaced fragment. The wound is closed without a drainage tube, and treated as for an uncomplicated fracture. Removal of the whole or part of a carpal bone affects the wrist-joint very slightly, but the muscles moving the joint should be vigorously treated by massage and exercises. It occasionally happens in the case of the scaphoid that the fracture deprives one of the fragments of its blood-supply, and in consequence there is no union. The avascularised fragment, usually the upper one, remains as a foreign body in the joint and gives rise to a chronic synovitis, wth pain and weakness of the articulations, which can only be remedied by excising the loose fragment in the manner just described.