AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS 92 apposition, the interval between them becomes filled up with clot, and young fibrous tissue forms between the ends in about a fortnight provided that there be no suppuration ; in five or six weeks this will be dense and able to bear considerable strain, and ultimately it comes to resemble closely the normal tendon in structure. In the absence of sepsis, the likelihood of a divided tendon uniting without surgical assistance depends to a great extent upon the particular tendon involved. For instance, the tendo Achillis unites much more readily than the flexors of the fingers when they are divided within their sjmovial sheaths. In the latter case, the ends of the tendon quickly contract adhesions to the sheath, unless they are brought close together, and their action is thereby much inter- fered with, and may be entirely lost. Treatment.—When a tendon has been divided in an open wound, the patient should be placed under an anaesthetic as soon as possible, and steps taken to render the wound aseptic (see Vol. I. p. 164), because union will not take place should suppuration occur, even though the divided ends be brought into apposition. If the soft parts only be injured, it is better not to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the wound, unless the latter be extremely dirty, because necrosis of the ends of the tendons might result and interfere with satisfactory union. Primary Tendon Suture.—The next step is to stitch the divided ends together. If the divided ends of a tendon be merely approximated, and not sutured, the result is seldom satisfactory ; the ends will almost certainly unite with the scar tissue, and, even if they do not, the lymph thrown out between the ends will not organise properly, and the function of the tendon will be seriously impaired. The first important point is to find the divided ends ; it is usually easy to find the distal end, but the proximal one often offers considerable difficulty. The description of the steps of the operation for tendon suture will be facilitated if we take as an example a case of transverse division across the front of the wrist. If the lower end of the divided tendon be not exposed in the wound, it will come into view on flexing the fingers and the wrist fully. When the cut end is seen, it should be seized with catch forceps, which are left on, so as to ensure its ready identification. The upper end is more difficult to find, because the muscle retracts at the time of the accident, and the tendon is often drawn up a long way within its sheath. The simplest plan is to extend the other fingers and squeeze the belly of the muscle forcibly downwards after flexing the elbow joint fully ; it may thus be possible to bring the tendon into reach and seize it with a pair of catch forceps. If this plan be unsuccessful, it wiU be necessary to lay open the sheath until the divided end is reached. When, however, slitting up the sheath is likely to damage important structures, a second incision should be made over the tendon, well above the wound, and the sheath opened ; from this incision the tendon is pushed down until its divided end appears in the original wound. Another useful plan