212 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS incision between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The patient is placed upon his back with the shoulders raised by a sand- bag, and the head turned to the opposite side. The interval between the clavicular and sternal heads of the sterno-mastoid is identified, and an incision is made over it parallel to the long axis of that muscle, about four inches in length, and with its centre about an inch above the clavicle. After the fascia has been divided, the interval between the two heads of the muscle is made out, the tissue fiUing it is opened up, the muscle split upwards as far as may be necessary, and the two portions held aside by retractors. Immediately beneath the fascia connecting the two heads of the muscle will be found the sterno-hyoid muscle at the inner Fig. 83.—Ligature of the First Part of the Right Subclavian between THE TWO Heads of the Sterno-mastoid. (SM) Sterno-mastoid (the cellular in- terval between the two heads is opened up and the muscle split upwards). (//) In- ternal jugular vein. (IV) Right innominate vein. (A) Subclavian artery. {Pn) Pneumogastric nerve. (ST) Sterno-thyroid muscle. (CI) Clavicle. side and the internal jugular vein towards the outer (see Fig. 83). In dividing this fascia, care must be taken not to puncture the internal jugular vein which is very large and lies immediately underneath it; the division of the fascia and muscle should only be carried out during in- spiration, when the vein is not so full. The latter is pulled to the outer side, whilst the sterno-hyoid is retracted towards the middle line, and then the first part of the artery can be seen and cleared, and a double ligature of floss silk or stout catgut passed around it ; the coats should not be divided. The vessel should be tied on the proximal side of the thyroid axis, if possible, and that vessel should also be hgatured. The Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the First Part of the Sub- clavian is carried on by the anastomoses of the inferior thyroid arteries