FRACTURES OF THE TIBIA ALONE 411 At the end of a fortnight, massage and passive movement should be begun, and a week later a Croft's splint may be applied, while the massage and passive movement are continued daily. The fracture is followed by effusion of blood into the joint, and hence massage and passive move- ment are very imi)ortant if a movable joint is to be obtained. When the spine of the tibia is broken off, the diagnosis is usually only made after the joint has been opened on account of symptoms resembling a loose body in the joint, or a so-called internal derangement. The detached spine of the tibia should either be pegged into place or removed entirely if the fractured portion be small. Stereoscopic radiography should always be em- ployed when there is any suspicion that the case is of this nature. In transverse fracture just below the tubercle, or separation of the epiphysis, it is only necessary, after having manipulated the fractured ends into position under an anaes- thetic, to apply a Croft's splint (see p. 266), which is opened on the following day and can be trans- formed afterwards into a permanent casing. The splint should extend from the middle of the thigh to the ankle. When the fracture is oblique there is a tendency for the upper fragment to protrude forwards. This may be overcome by placing the limb in the fully-extended position, and then applying a Croft's splint from the foot to the middle of the thigh ; if not, it may be necessary to expose the fractured ends and fasten them together (see p. 305). Fig. 204.—Oblique Fracture oe the Tibia. FRACTURES OF THE SH.'KFT OF THE TIBIA. These are much more common than fractures of the upper end, and usually occur in the lower third. The cause is generally direct violence, such as a run-over injury, but it may also be due to indirect violence. When due to direct \'iolence, the fracture is often comminuted and not infrequently compound, but is generally trans\'erse in direction ; when it is due to indirect \'iolence there is often considerable obliquity of the