DETACHMENT OF ARTICULAk CARTILAGE In about a fortnight's time the limb is moved, preferably mider anfes- thesia, and then put up in a Croft's splint at an angle of 150°. Passive movements and massage will be required from this time onwards. Operative interference may be called for in these cases. The seat of the fracture is best exposed through an external incision. Reduction of the displacement is effected by flexing the limb at the knee and hip, and making traction in the line of the bone. The fragments are manipu- lated into position, and fixed with screws and plates or with a staple. The exact method will depend upon the shape of the lower fragment, as the plane of separation rarely corresponds to the epiphyseal cartilage throughout its whole extent. Some surgeons recommend that the plate or staple should be removed as soon as union is complete, so as to avoid interference with growth. The after-treatment is similar to that of the previous variety (vide supm). Occasionally the sharp edge of the lower fragment injures the vessels in the popliteal space and the leg becomes gangrenous. This complica- tion should be watched for, and treated as for gangrene from any other cause (see Vol. I. Chap. IV.). DETACHMENT OF ARTICULAR CARTILAGE. This accident sometimes results from falls upon the knee or the foot. A portion of the articular cartilage with its underlying bone becomes detached from the surface of one of the condyles of the femur and forms a loose body in the knee-joint. TREATMENT.—If the nature of the injury be made out at the time, as by feeling a loose body mo\'ing about in the joint or by a radio- gram, the best plan is to do an arthrotomy at once and remove it. If the operation be long delayed, the loose body sets up considerable changes in the synovial membrane, leading to the formation of firm adhesions and sometimes a villous condition of the synovial membrane not unlike that seen in osteo-arthritis. The loose fragment rarely becomes united to the bone ; if it does, it is in wrong position, and for this reason also the sooner it is removed the better. The details of the operation are described fully in connection with loose bodies in the knee-joint (see Vol. III.).