SCURVY-RICKETS 467 dosej is a teaspoouful three or lour times a day after food, and fortunately children rather like it than otherwise, so that there is usually no difficulty in getting them to take it. Phosphorus is useful in doses of a hundredth of a grain, which is best given mixed with the cod-liver oil. The compound syrup of the phosphates (Parrish's food), and syrupus ferri phosphatis are also good, but pure phosphorus is better. Iron may be of use in pale anajmic children, and the best form is probably the tinct. ferri perchlor., given in four- or five-minim doses twice or three times a day ; the syrup of the iodide of iron in half-drachm doses is also useful. The child should be sent to the country, and if possible to the seaside, and, while there, sca-baths, or, if they cannot be obtained, baths contain- ing sea-salt are valuable. The baths should be tepid, and friction to the limbs and abdomen should be employed after them for fifteen or twenty minutes. The main surgical point to consider in rickets is the treatment of the deformities of the limbs which are so apt to occur. When the disease is progressing, the child should not be allowed to stand or run about, as otherwise deformity of the lower limbs and the pelvis will almost certainly result. The child should be kept in bed or lying on a mattress, and should be taken out whenever there is sunshine ; in same places the treatment of rickets consists essentially in allowing the child to lie or play on a heap of sand exposed to the full glare of the sun with only a night-dress on. When the deformity of tlie limbs is only slight, the probability is that the child will outgrow it, if he can be prevented from standing and walking. Friction of the affected limbs and niaiiipnlation of the deformity in such a way as to unbend the curve are powerful adjuncts to success and must not be neglected. It is remarkable how quickly a curve will disappear in a young child when carefully treated in this way. When, however, the curve is marked before the patient comes under notice, the question of splints or of osteotomy has to be considered. These two methods each have their place. This subject has been con- sidered in detail in connection with the deformities produced by this disease (see Vol. I.). SCURVY-RICKETS. By the term ' scurvy-rickets ' is understood a condition that is really a true scurv}' occurring in infantile life. The name is somewhat mis- leading as it seem to infer that a rickety condition is an integral part of the affection, whereas, althouglr both scurvy and rickets are not at all infrequently found associated together, the latter disease has no causal H H 2