DISARTICULATION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT 52J in the line of union, but is not essential. If the iibres of the deltoid have been thoroughly divided in the line of incision, the flap so marked out along with the posterior circumflex trunk, which enters its deep surface, can be easily separated from the bone and joint, and drawn upwards and backwards so as to expose the head and tlie tuberosities by the point of the linger without further use of the knife. The tendinous insertions of the capsular muscles, the long head of the biceps and the capsule are next divided by cutting directly on the tuberosities and head of the bone, and the broad sub-scapular tendon especially being very freely exposed by the incision, can be much more readily and completely divided than in the double-flap method. By keeping the edge of the posterior flap out I'lG. 2jS.—Methods oi'Amputating at the Shoulder-joint. A, Speuce's anipu- tation. B, Amputation by a long deltoid flap. The incision for this ilap is carried up to a corresponding point on the back of the shoulder. C, Furueaux Jordan's method applied to tlic shoulder. The transverse incision is a circular amputation with the edges just rounded off where the vertical incision meets it. The dotted line denotes the point of suction of the bone. The upper end of the latter is subsequently enucleated. of the way by a broad copper spatula or the hngers of an assistant, and taking care to keep the edge of the knife close to the bone, as in excision, the trunk of the posterior circumflex is protected. The only vessel which bleeds is the anterior circumflex divided in the lirst incision, and, if necessary, a pair of catch forceps may be placed on it at once. With regard to the axillary vessels they can either be compressed by an assistant before completing the division of the soft parts on the axillary aspect, or to avoid all risk the axillary artery may be exposed, tied and divided between two ligatures so as to allow it to retract before dividing the other textures. In cases where the limb is very muscular I dissect up the skin flap from the deltoid at the lower part and then divide the muscular fibres higher up by a second incision, so as to avoid redundancy of muscular