154 AFFECTIONS OF VEINS a common occurrence. Varices in the legs are also fertile sources of eczema and ulceration (see Vol. I. Chap. III.). They also cause pain and aching in the limb, and in the early period this is chiefly noticeable when the patient gets up in the morning, when it is often accompanied by cramp ; later on, it is chiefly marked in the evening if the patient has been standing much during the day. TREATMENT.—The treatment of varicose veins in the leg may be palliative or operative. In no case can a cure be correctly spoken of, although marked improvement may be effected by operative means in suitable cases. Even when it is possible to eradicate a small localised mass of veins entirely by operation, it is not strictly accurate to speak of this as a cure, as is often done. The tendency to varix remains, and other veins may become affected. The primary object of the treatment, whether palliative or operative, is to support the column of blood and relieve the weakened venous walls of the downward pressure. An operation is advisable as a radical measure when the varicosity is not extensive, and the enlargement is limited to one vein or set of veins. The operation is also necessary in cases of young men entering the public services or going abroad to hot climates, where they are likely to have much standing or exertion. As a palliative means it is to be recommended in cases of extensive varix, with the view of rendering the patient more comfortable, of diminishing or arresting the spread of the condition, and of enabling him to wear an elastic stocking with comfort, even when large areas are affected. Operation is indicated when the enlargement affects the veins above the knee, in order to cut off the blood-column and to obviate the necessity of wearing a bandage above the knee—a most ii^k- some thing. It is also advisable when there have been frequent attacks of phlebitis, or when the veins are the cause of much pain or aching, even without phlebitis. When there is ulceration of the limb, ligature and removal of the veins, after the ulcer has healed, is often of value, as it tends to prevent recun-ence (see Vol. I. Chap. III.). Excision of the inflamed veins during the acute stage is also indicated in phlebitis associated with varicose veins. Non-operative measures are indicated when the patient objects to an operation, when the state of his health contra-indicates operation, when the varicosity is slight, stationary, or easily controlled by supporting bandages, when the condition is extremely extensive and when the cutaneous veins are the chief seat of the enlargement. OjDerative Treatment.—We shall discuss, first, the operative treatment of varicose veins, in which the object is to shut off the down- ward blood pressure and obliterate the main vessels affected. When the disease extends into the thigh and affects the internal saphenous vein up to the groin, radical measures are always advisable if the patient's health permits, because the valves are incompetent, and cannot support the column of blood. In these cases the important point is to block the