AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 276 The whole limb is shaved so as to avoid the inconvenience that the adhesion of the strapping to the hairs would entail. A piece of strapping is laid along each side of the limb, about four inches wide for an adult, and long enough to reach from six inches above the fracture to about the same distance beyond the sole. About eighteen inches from the lower end two transverse cuts, each extending about one-third of the way across, are made in the strapping, which is then folded in three with the adhesive side inwards, so as to form a strap which can be attached to the extending weight by buckles (see Fig. 124). In order to avoid the occurrence of ulceration over the malleoli from the pressure of the strapping, a pad of boric lint should be interposed between the latter and the skin over the base of each malleolus, so that the strapping can pass clear over these prominences without touching them. A bandage is then applied from below upwards to just below the fracture. The free upper ends of the strapping are then turned down, Fig. 125—Stirrup for Weight Extension. The figure shows the lateral pieces of strapping applied to the hmb by a bandage, and the manner in which the upper end is turned down and the bandage carried downwards over it. The pad above the malleoli is also shown. and the bandage is continued downwards over them untU they are com- pletely covered (see Fig. 125). Some surgeons fix the lateral pieces by two or tliree circular strips of strapping applied above the malleoli and just above and below the knee, and then put on a bandage outside this. No doubt this prevents the strapping from slipping more effectually than does the bandage alone, but as the strapping begins to slip, it pulls down the circular bands, which may therefore constrict the limb. In order to connect the limb with the weight two strips of webbing, six inches long and an inch wide are tacked to a small piece of board, about four inches long by three inches wide, and buckles are sewn to their free ends. The straps made by folding the ends of the strapping are fastened to these buckles. A hole is bored in the centre of the piece of board through which a piece of blind-cord is threaded and is prevented from slipping back by tying a large knot on it. This wooden foot-piece should be at right angles to the axis of the limb, and should not touch the sole. The free end of the cord is passed over the puUey and the