72 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES to keep the muscle fibres in position until new connective tissue has formed (see Fig. 20). Active movements should be practised within a day or two of the operation, and if necessary the faradaic current should be used in order to cause contraction of the muscle, and thus prevent it from adhering to the edge of the opening in the fascia. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Myositis or inflammation of muscle may be either acute or chronic ; the acute form may be circumscribed or diffuse, suppurative or non- suppurative. ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED MYOSITIS. This condition may be primary or secondary. As a primary affection it is usually met with in young males, and is generally attributed to over-work of the muscles or to cold. Most probably, however, it is either of traumatic or infective origin. When it occurs secondarily, it may be an extension from a wound, or may follow inflammation in the vicinity. Acute myositis may be either hyperplastic or suppurative. ACUTE HYPERPLASTIC MYOSITIS.—In the hyper- plastic form, which is much the more common, the muscle becomes hard and friable, the fibres gradually disappearing and fibrous tissue taking their place; the final result of the condition is sclerosis of the muscle. The affection often occurs in the neighbourhood of suppurative inflam- mations, for example, near glandular abscesses. Treatment.—The first point in the treatment of the hyperplastic form is to remove the cause, if possible. When the affection is secondary to an abscess or inflammation in the vicinity, the abscess or the in- flammatory condition should be treated appropriately. When there is a primary non-suppurative myositis and a rheumatic condition is suspected, lo-grain doses of salicylate of soda may be administered every four hours- At the same time hot fomentations or india-rubber hot-water bottles, applied over the part, will usually relieve the pain ; it may, however, be acute enough to call for the administration of morphine. When the acuter symptoms have passed off, and the patient can bear it, massage should be employed in order to get rid of the exuded material quickly and so avoid sclerosis of the muscle. ACUTE SUPPURATIVE MYOSITIS.—The suppurative form is rarely a primary condition; it is usually due to extension of suppuration from the neighbourhood. Multiple abscesses in muscles generally occur as a result of pyaemia or glanders ; diffuse suppurative myositis—a condition corresponding to diffuse cellulitis—generally arises in connection with a septic wound. Apart from pyfemia, or suppuration in glands or bone the affection