AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 352 After-treatment.—It is as a result of putting up tliese fractures badly that the condition known as ' Volkmann's contracture ' (see p. 294) has generally occurred, and, therefore, the greatest care must be taken to see that the pressure of the splints is not unduly severe. The splint should extend down to the transverse crease of the palm, so as to allow active and passive movement of the fingers to be practised from the first. The forearm should be placed in a sling supporting both the elbow and the hand. The splints may be left undisturbed for a week, after which they should be taken off daily in order to practise active and passive movements of the wrist and elbow-joints. The splints must not be discarded until the fifth or sixth week, and not then unless the union be firm. There is not the same risk of stiffness in the joints or about the tendon sheaths as in the fractures lower down, whilst the risk of non-union is considerable. Greenstick Fracture.—This is common in children. The treat- ment is similar to that just de- scribed ; the bones should be forcibly straightened under an anaesthetic before the limb is put up. The splint need only be kept on for three weeks. After that the arm should be worn in a sling for another ten days. Mal-union in Fractures of both Bones. — When the bones have become fused together by callus so that pronation and supination are lost, it will be necessary to ex- pose the seat of fracture and chisel away the uniting medium so as to free the bones and restore their movements. The best route to the bones is through an anterior oblique incision in a line from the internal condyle of the humerus to the styloid process of radius over the situation of the fracture ; the pronator radii teres can then be pulled upwards and the flexor muscles downwards and inwards. The incision must be free, and the muscles should be relaxed by flexing the elbow, the wrist, and the finger-joints. When the callus has been defined, the redundant portion is cut away, if possible without dividing the union between the fragments of the individual bones. Should there i-IG. l6g. DiAt.RASI ILLUSIRAIING ' CkOSS- UNION ' AFTER FRACTURE OF BOTH BoNES 0F_ THE Forearm. The dotted lines indicate the incisions that may be necessary to rectify the condition.