370 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES almost horizontal. In unimpacted fractures this is mainly due to the weight of the limb, but it is also probably due in part to the fact that there is more extensive crushing of the bone on the posterior aspect of the neck than on the anterior, because the same eversion occurs in impacted fractures, and in them, of course, the weight of the limb cannot produce much effect so long as the impaction holds. TREATMENT —In the case of old people two important points should be borne in mind. In the first place, the fracture often fails to unite by bone, although this is not always the case if prolonged treat- FiG. 178.—Liston's Long Splint. Method of application. The splint is first rolled up for a few turns in one end of each of the broad bandages or sheets. The latter are then arranged as in the figure, the upper one beneath the trunk and pelvis, which keeps it steady, and the lower one beneath the affected limb, where it is held firm by an assistant. The splint is then further rolled up in the bandages until it lies against the side of the body, when pads are inserted and it is secured as shown in • the following figure. For the cases referred to in the text a stirrup should be applied to the affected limb before the procedures depicted above are carried out. ment be carried out. In the second place, a long period of recumbency after any injury may prove serious, and indeed fatal, from the occurrence of hypostatic pneumonia. If the patient be comparatively young and strong, it may be worth while to attempt to obtain bony or firm fibrous union between the frag- ments ; if, on the other hand, the patient be old, it is not worth while running the risk of pneumonia by persevering in the use of the recumbent position in attempts to obtain bony union. The question of union will also be affected by the presence or absence of impaction. When the fracture is impacted, the surgeon will be more inclined to persevere in attempts to obtain bony union than when it is not. Of Unimpacted Fractures in Young Adults.—The best treatment