VARICOSE VEINS 157 and then the next group of veins is dissected out ; by excising the remain- ing veins before sewing up the first wound, time is allowed for all bleeding to become arrested—an important element of success in attaining primary- union in these cases. When all the masses of veins have been removed thus, the various wounds are sutured with the finest silk. If the operation be done care- fully, there will be little or no blood lost, but in all cases it is important to let the wound become quite dry before it is sewn up. Care must be taken to see that the thin skin does not curl inwards during the suturing ; the suture used should be the ordinary button-hole one described in Vol. I. p. 142 ; no drainage tube is necessary. The limb is put on a light splint for a few days to prevent bending of the knee, and the limb is elevated slightly. The dressing over the upper end of the saphena vein is apt to become detached by the movements of the patient, and, therefore, should be fixed on by collodion. After-treatment.—The stitches may be removed at the end of ten days, and collodion dressings appHed. The patient should not be allowed to get up until three weeks have elapsed since the operation, in case thrombosis should have occurred above the ligatures, when there will be a risk of detachment of clots if he begins to move about too soon. When both limbs require to be operated upon, it may be advisable to operate upon one at a time, the second operation being done about a fortnight after the first, as it is exceedingly irksome to the patient to have the two hmbs disabled at the same time. The operation is generally tedious, and it is not uncommon for it to last upwards of an hour upon each leg. When, however, the affection is only slight, and few veins have to be removed, or when it is severe in one hmb and slight in the other, both may be operated upon at once. If the affection be very hmited, no splint need be applied, the hmb being enveloped in a thick mass of cotton wool, \\'hich will hinder the movements of the knee ; the limb may be kept steady, if necessary, by being placed between sandbags with a sheet or towel over it. When the patient gets up it is well to apply a bandage from the foot upwards to support the veins before getting up out of bed, but this should be an ordinary cotton or flannel bandage, and not an elastic one. When the varicosity has not been very marked, and the affected veins have been almost completely extirpated, this bandage may be left off after three or four weeks and no further apparatus is necessary ; when, on the other hand, the varicosity is extensive and all the veins have not been dealt with, it is advisable to order a hght elastic stocking or bandage (see p. 160) to be worn. After these operations exercises designed to improve the nutrition of the muscles may be practised, but the patient should be warned against prolonged standing, hfting heavy weights, and so forth ; active exercise, walking or bicycling in moderation, should not be prohibited, however. The bowels should be kept acting regularly.