AMPUTATIONS 534 irregular amputations will be far more frequently of use than the set operations described in the text-books on operative surgery. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS—There are one or two practical points common to all operations on the foot, which it may be well to mention here. In selecting flaps, the skin from the plantar surface will form the best material, and should be utilised if possible. No scar should be allowed on the plantar surface or upon either side of the foot, as it would be exposed to considerable pressure ; it should lie either over the end of the stump, to which there is no particular objection, or some- what on the dorsal surface. If possible it should lie just over the dorsal aspect of the end of the stump. If it comes too high up upon the instep it may be subjected to friction from the boot. So great is the value of even a small portion of the foot—even though only enough be retained to preserve the action of the ankle-joint—that it is allowable to make flaps that are too short to meet accurately, and to skin-graft the gaps left between them. This, however, should only be done when the interval so grafted lies upon the dorsum, for a skin-grafted patch upon the sole would interfere considerably with the patient's walking. Several set operations are described for amputation of the foot, but as they are practically never performed except in the dissecting-room we shall not go into them in detail. Lisfranc's Operation.—This is a disarticulation through the tarso- metatarsal joints, and the stump is covered in by a long plantar flap, which is made to fold upwards over the end of the tarsus. On account of the difficulties experienced in disarticulating the base of the second metatarsal bone, this operation was modified by Hey, who sawed across the base of the bone. It can be readily understood that in cases requiring amputation in this situation it is extremely seldom that a plantar flap of the requisite length will be obtainable. Should the case be one of severe crush of the toes, some much more partial operation will probably suffice ; should the damage involve the metatarsal bones, it is practically certain that the tissues in the sole of the foot will be as seriously injured as those upon the dorsum. In cases of gangrene also, amputation so near to the gan- grenous part is out of the question, and, should the case be one of tumour, the amputation will, of course, have to be performed at a higher level. Therefore, the operation is practically only performed upon the dead subject. Chopart's Amputation.—Chopart's amputation also is practically only performed upon the dead subject and in examinations. The opera- tion is a disarticulation at the medio-tarsal joint, the covering being obtained by a long plantar flap which extends forwards to the balls of the toes. In disease of the tarsus this operation is inadvisable, because the disease is sure to extend to one of the articular surfaces of the astragalus or the OS calcis, and it is not easy to remove all the diseased synovial