THE TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES 259 one should make extension and the other counter-extension ; the surgeon can then devote all his attention to the coaptation of tlic fractured ends. The extension should be steady, gradual, and in the long axis of tiie bone. Sudden jerky movements lead to contractions of the muscles that oppose the reduction; while, if slowly and steadily stretched, the muscles gradually become tired out, and their resistance ceases. The administration of an anaesthetic during reduction should lie insisted upon, unless there be some distinct contra-indication; muscular contraction will then be completely overcome, and the fractured ends can be brought into accurate apposition, while the apparatus for maintaining them in position can be applied before the patient is allowed to come round. It is important to see that the hmb is immobilised during the induction of the anaesthesia, and special care must be taken that no involuntary move- ments of the limb occur. Much damage may be done to the soft parts, and a simple fracture may be converted into a compound one, by a neglect of this precaution, which is especially important in alcoholic subjects. Obstacles to Reduction,—The chief obstacles to reduction are Spasm of the muscles, which is readily overcome by the administration of an an;esthetic. The presence of impaction, one fragment being driven into the other. It may be difficult to disentangle the ends and to bring them into proper position, but in most cases this should be done. There are a few instances, however, in which impaction is of advantage, and should not be interfered with, e.g. in fracture of the neck of the femur in old people. In Colles's fracture, on the other hand, any impaction present should be undone as soon after the injury as possible, otherwise the hand may be per- manently disabled by a bony deformity and a displacement of the articular surface that cannot be remedied subsequently without operation. The presence of loose fragments about the fracture may impede accurate coaptation particularly in fractures in the immediate vicinity of joints ; in them the greatest care must be taken to manipulate the loose fragments under anaesthesia so as to secure proper coaptation. If this be impossible ■—as it often is in fractures in the neighbourhood of the elbow-joint—the surgeon should not hesitate to expose the seat of fracture, and either remove the loose fragments or fix them in position. Attempts to get union with a loose fragment in bad position end either in non-union or in consohdation of the fracture accompanied by deformity and functional impairment of the limb, which requires for its rectification an operation at a later date and under less favourable conditions. The treatment of individual cases of this kind is described in connection with special fractures. Portions of viiiscle, tendon, or fascia may be interposed between the fragments, and, if allowed to remain, may cause union either to fail entirely, or to be imperfect and accompanied by deformity. If it be found that the interposed structures cannot be satisfactorily pushed aside after s 2