439 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION Of Acute Suppurative Osteo-myelitis and Periostitis after an Open Wound.—When acute osteo-myelitis follows an external wound —for example, an amputation, an excision, or a compound fracture—the organisms spread into and along the medulla and under the periosteum with great rapidity and almost certainly lead to necrosis of the whole thickness of the lower end of the bone, and very often to the formation of sequestra reaching upwards for some distance. The condition is very likely to be accompanied by pyaemia. The best procedure, when acute necrosis follows amputation wounds, seems to be re-amputation of the limb. In compound fractures also, amputation should be done unless the osteo-myelitis be very limited. The re-amputation should be performed through the neighbouring joint or the bone above. It would be useless to amputate through the same bone, because there is generally not enough of it left to be of any value, and because it would be impossible to be sure of getting above the disease. Waiting for the separation of the sequestra in these cases is not to be advised, unless in exceptional cases. Of Acute Suppurative Osteitis of the Flat Bones.—Acute suppurative osteitis is not very uncommon in the skull, the scapula, or the bones of the foot. In most of these instances, however, it occurs after an open wound. The chances of recovery are extremely small in acute osteo-myeUtis of the skull. The treatment must be on Unes similar to those for the affec- tion elsewhere. The details of the operation as applied to the skull will be found in connection with mffammation of the cranial bones (see Vol. III.). When the whole scapula is afiected, complete excision (see p. 528) is the best practice. When only a portion is attacked, aU the bone visibly affected should be cut away. In the case of the small bones, such as the tarsal bones, e.xcision of the affected bone may suffice if the inflammation be limited to it; but there is generally suppuration both of bones and joints, e.g. after a compound fracture or injury to the joints, and in these cases amputation is the only satisfactory remedy. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. Chronic inflammation of bone may, on the one hand, affect chiefly the periosteum, and, on the other, the medulla and adjacent bone ; it may follow the acute form, but is usually chronic from the first. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—In chronic periostitis there is great thickening of the periosteum and abundant formation of new bone beneath it, as well as condensation of the pre-existing bone, so that in chronic i^eriostitis there is always a certain amount of osteitis. In chronic osteo-myelitis there is either softening of the bone, termed ' rarefying osteitis,' or condensation, termed ' condensing osteitis,' or a localised suppuration, termed ' Brodie's abscess of bone.' After a time the