INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 37 of the abdomen or flanks deeply into the subcutaneous tissues, the syringe should be washed in water, and boiled for fifteen minutes. Apart from the acute septic form just referred to, an acute or subacute lymphangitis may occur under other circumstances. For example there may be a simple lymphangitis in which the cause of irritation is not of a suppurative character, but in this form there are none of the symptoms characteristic of the acute form of the disease. Lymphangitis may occur in goiwrrhcca, when it is due to the gonococcus. In sofi chancres, lymphangitis sometimes, though rarely, occurs. It commences about the eighth day, and is characterised by red lines along the dorsum of the penis and the presence of a hard knotted cord, accompanied by cedema of the prepuce ; an abscess may form in the course of the lymphatic vessels, and may lead to an obstinate ulcer with inoculable pus. Treatment.—This is intimately associated with the treatment of the inducing cause and the ordinary treatment of inflammation. CHRONIC LYMPHANGITIS. Causes. — This occurs in the course of various other diseases, especially syphilis and tubercle, the lymphatic vessels being the principal channels by which infection reaches the system. In syphilis we may have affections of the lymphatic vessels in any of the three stages. In the primary stage the lymphatics on the dorsum of the penis may be felt as indurated moniliform cords without any pain or redness of the skin. In secondary syphilis thickened lymphatics may be found in various parts of the body, and they may also be met with in the tertiary stage. In iubercttlosis also there is a tuberculous lymphangitis, in which the vessels leading from the tuberculous lesion, especially if in the skin, are thickened and nodular, and these nodules may develop into scrofulous gummata (see p. i8). This condition may also extend to the thoracic duct, and it then leads to general tuberculosis. Chronic lymphangitis plays an important part in the development of elephantiasis, chronic cedema of the limbs, etc. Treatment.—The treatment of all these conditions is essentially that of the primary disease that induces them ; in syphilis, the only treat- ment necessary is to administer remedies appropriate to the syphilis itself. The treatment of tuberculous lesions of lymphatic vessels, especially of the so-called scrofulous gummata, has already been alluded to (see p. i8). It consists essentially in excision of the tuberculous nodules wherever possible, and the employment of tuberculin (see Vol. I. P- 522). Apart from the removal of the cause, the various methods suitable for chronic inflammation should be used, especially counter-irritation and pressure. In the extremities massage, bandaging and elevation of the