483 METHODS OF AMPUTATING should be planned so that the line of union of the flaps lies behind the bone, because the muscles on the posterior aspect of the limb are stronger and contract more powerfully than those on the front. Were the flaps to meet upon the anterior aspect of the limb, this contraction would cause the scar to be pulled directly over the end of the bone to which it would then become adherent. Avoidance of Adherent Flaps.—Adhesion of the flaps to the bone is best avoided by making sure that the entire wound heals by first intention. If this be the case, and the flaps be of sufficient length, they will not adhere to the bone, for firm adhesions between these structures are usually the result of suppuration and granulation of the flaps. Painless Scar.— If the large nerves be divided at a higher level than the other structures in the flap, they do not become pressed upon by the cicatrix or adherent to the bone. This is a point of great importance, because, should the nerves become involved in the scar, bulbous enlarge- ment will occur, neuritis will be set up, and the patient will suffer from intense neuralgic pain, aggravated by the slightest pressure. The ends of the tendons should also be cut short unless there be some special reason for retaining their action upon the stump. If they become adherent to the end of the bones or the flaps, they may materially interfere with the patient's comfort and his ability to bear pressure upon the stump. METHODS OF AMPUTATING. There are certain classical methods of amputating, and, in addition, many irregular methods adapted to special cases. THE CIRCULAR METHOD. This was the earliest form of amputation known, and for a long time was in general use. It was subsequently elaborated into what is known as the modified circular method, which is still frequently adopted in the I'lc. —RuGiNES OR Periosteum Detachers. These are of dilTcrciit bhapes according to the purposes for which they are used. upper extremitw In the circular method, the skin and subcutaneous tissues are first di\'ided by one sweep of the knife drawn circularly round the limb. The divided structures are then retracted for two inches or more, and a series of circular sweeps of the knife is made through the muscles, commencing at the level of the edge of the retracted skin. As 11 2