TUBERCULOSIS 453 well. In the fingers it is known as ' strumous dactylitis.' At first the disease is confined to the interior of the bone ; during this time the peri- osteum around becomes thickened, and when the bone is short, like a phalanx, it becomes fusiform. As the disease progresses, however, the hard shell of the bone is broken through at some point, and then infection of the periosteum occurs. Subsequently a chronic abscess forms which, when opened, is found to lead into the interior through a hole in the bone. Tuberculous Periostitis.—In this form the tuberculous material is deposited bcneatli the periosteum ; it occurs specially frequently in the ribs and the vertebra-. The disease spreads partly into the bone and partly into the soft tissues around, and an abscess frequently forms ; the surface of the bone becomes eroded and carious, and small sequestra may form. In the ribs spontaneous fracture may occur. CLINICAL STAGES.—Tiibeyculoiis osieilis may be met with in various clinical stages. In the first place, the tuberculous deposit may be still confined to the interior of the bone, and no external infection may have occurred. Secondly, the deposit may have reached the surface of the bone and have caused a chronic abscess over it ; and thirdly, this chronic abscess may have burst, and septic sinuses may be present leading down to a tuberculous deposit in the bone. In tiiberculoiis osteo-myelitis the condition may also be similar. In some cases the bone is enlarged but still intact ; in others there may be abscesses in connection with the enlarged bone, and in a third class there may be sinuses leading down into the medulla. In iuhcrcidons periostitis there will be thickening of the periosteum in the early stages, but in exposed bones, such as the ribs, there may be a chronic abscess early in the case, or the abscess may have burst before the case comes under notice, leaving sinuses leading down to carious bone. The results in the cases in which deposits open into joints are dealt with under Tuberculous Disease of the Joints (Vol. III.). TREATMENT.—The details of treatment depend to a considerable extent on tlie bones or parts of the bones involved. Here we can only deal generally with the subject, taking one or two of the cases as examples. It is not necessary to describe the treatment of tuberculous deposits, tuberculous osteo-myeUtis, and tuberculous periostitis separately ; it will suffice to take the three clinical divisions : (i) tuberculous disease of bone without abscess ; (2) tuberculous disease of bone with abscess ; and (3) tuberculous disease of bone with septic sinuses. Of Cases unaccompanied by Chronic Abscess.—Here the chief difficulty is to diagnose the existence of tuberculous disease at all. The surgeon must be guided to a great extent by the history of the case, by a previous or hereditary history of tuberculosis, by enlargement of the bone without any marked symptoms, by the general character of the enlargement, and bv the fact that the part affected is a common seat