388 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES sheet is passed around the upper part of the sphnt and secures the trunk within it. This sphnt has the advantage that the child can be turned over, carried about, or wheeled out in the air without disturbance of the fracture. Mal-imion.—It is not uncommon to meet with both mal-union and non-union in fractures of the femur. In the former case there is generally considerable shortening and angular deformity, with the apex directed outwards and forwards. In order to rectify the mal-union the bone may either be re-fractured or cut down upon, and secured in position, the latter being the preferable method. Operation.—After the limb has been shaved and disinfected with the same scrupulous care necessary for recent fractures, a vertical a B Fig. 191.—^The Double Splint for Fracture of the Femur, A shows the form originally suggested by Mr. Bryant. The lateral splints can be approximated or separated by the metal bars at a and b. The sound limb is fastened to the footpiece on the side c, while the fractured one is secured to d, upon which the extension acts; e and / are interruptions in the splint opposite the trochanter to allow the limbs to be kept parallel. In B is shown the detail of the lower part of one side splint in which extension is made by means of a stirrup which is attached to the piece of wood g. This gives more effectual extension, as it cannot jam, as does the footpiece running in a slot. incision is made over the fracture, generally along the outer side of the limb ; this incision should be very free, for if it be too small, the soft parts will be severely bruised in manipulating the bone ends, and this may interfere with the healing. After everything has been cleanly divided down to the fracture, the parts are well retracted and the faulty union is exposed. In nearly all these cases the fracture is oblique, and the line of union should be chiselled through until the fragments are completely separated. The direction of the fracture can often be told with accuracy by means of a stereoscopic radiogram. The periosteum should not be peeled off except in the immediate vicinity of the bone section. Powerful extension must now be applied in order to bring the fragments into position ; it may be necessary to employ pulleys, as the traction that can be exerted by even the strongest