AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES 62 the shrinking of the muscle whilst the cause is being treated ; the most useful methods for this purpose are massage, manipulations, and electricity. Massage.—The principles of massage are explained in Vol. I. p. 23 ; the object is not to remove effused materials, but to improve the cir- culation in the muscle, and to stimulate the muscle-fibres to contract in order that they may regain a certain amount of power. Attempts to improve the circulation are best made by rubbing and kneading the muscle in the upward direction, and contractions are induced by repeated tappings and vibrations applied to the muscle itself. More important still are active muscular movements against resistance. The patient tries to move the limb against resistance applied by the masseur or some suitable instrument. Electricity.—In employing electricity, the faradaic current should be used, except when thei^e is some joint lesion, in which, therefore, con- tractions of the muscles might aggravate the mischief. An electrode three inches square and covered with chamois leather or thick flannel is soaked in warm salt solution and applied to the spine ; while another electrode, not less than two inches square, is applied over the affected muscle and moved slowly all over it, in close contact with the skin. The current should be just strong enough to cause gentle contractions of the muscle, and not to give rise to pain. If preferred, the two electrodes may be placed side by side on the skin and moved about. Each sitting should last from ten to twenty minutes, and should be repeated every day or two for several months. Manipulations.—At the same time frequent manipulations should be practised, with the view of stretching the muscles and preventing the occurrence of contractures, provided that the case be not one of joint disease in which movements would be harmful. TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. Injuries of muscles vary in degree from a simple contusion to complete rupture of the muscular fibres. CONTUSIONS OF MUSCLES. Contusions of muscles may sometimes give rise to considerable mis- chief. A contusion leads to infiltration of blood among the muscular fibres, which interferes with their action and often causes temporary paralysis. When struck, the muscle contracts, and this is followed by fibrillary twitchings, after which the muscle relaxes and may not recover its power for two or three days. When permanent paralysis of a muscle follows a blow, it is usually due to damage to its nerve supply rather than to injury of the muscular fibres themselves. Haemorrhage into a muscle may be followed by various troubles ;