METHOD OF PERFORMING A TYPICAL AMPUTATION 491 is applicable to a large number of cases. A useful adaptation has been introduced for amputations in the lower extremity. In this, the oval of the racket, instead of starting from the lower end of the vertical in- cision or handle, begins to diverge almost from the very commencement, so that practically there is no vertical incision at all, the flap being a single long oblic^ue one (see Fig. 220, b). Anterior oblique flaps made in this way in the lower extremity fall over the end of the bone and produce a more or less vertical cicatrix situated well behind the bone. This form of flap is often spoken of as the ' hooded flap.' These are the general types, but in addition there are a large number of special amputations for use in particular situations which will be described in due course. IRREGULAR AMPUTATIONS. While, however, it is well to be intimately acquainted with all the typical methods of amputation suitable for different situations, it is of extreme practical importance for the surgeon to remember that he can modify any of these to meet the varying circumstances of any individual case, and that he may use lateral, oblique, or irregular flaps according to the natin-e of the case with which he is dealing, so long as he is thereby enabled to provide a satisfactory stump without sacrificing more of the limb than is absolutely necessary. While no doubt the set operations may be of use in cases of disease, the patient's interests are nearly always better served, in the majority of cases in which the surgeon is nowadays called upon to amputate, by some irregular form of amputation than by one on old-fashioned lines. METHOD OF PERFORMING A TYPICAL AMPUTATION. We shall describe a typical amputation by the flap method, and its after-treatment, in order to emphasise various details that must be attended to both before and after the operation. DISINFECTION.—This point is dealt with fully in Vol. I. p. 100. The skin should be shaved for a considerable distance around the proposed area of operation and then disinfected in the most careful manner some hours before the operation if possible ; a gauze dressing is put on, and finally the disinfection is again repeated when the j^atient is under the anaesthetic. When there are septic sinuses or ulcerated areas in the immediate vicinity of the amputation, these should be scraped out immediately before the operation and stuifed with small pieces of sponge impregnated with undiluted carbolic acid. The skin in the neigh- bourhood of the sinuses should be covered with a wet dressing wrung out of a I in 20 carbolic acid or a i in 500 sublimate solution, extending almost up to the lowest limit of the flaps and firmly bandaged on with a