433 ACUTE INFLAMMATION II. FF TREATMENT.—We shall consider the treatment of acute suppura- tive inflammation of Ijone under the following heads : (i) acute suppura- tive periostitis, (2) acute suppurative osteo-myelitis, (3) acute e])iphysitis, (4) those forms accompanied by suppuration in the neighbouring joints, (5) acute periostitis and osteo-myelitis following injury to bone and (6) acute suppurative osteitis of the flat bones. In all these forms, there is also the question of the removal of the dead portions or sequestra at a later period. Of Acute Suppurative Periostitis.—Acute suppurative periostitis without any implication of the iiKHluUa undoubtedly does occur. The general symptoms are usually somewhat less severe than in acute osteo- myelitis, and the swelling and the redness of the skin appear sooner. Incision.—The affected part of the bone should be cut down upon as soon as the diagnosis is made, the periosteum divided, and the pus evacuated. When there is a considerable collection of pus beneath the j:)eriosteum three or four days after the commencement of symptoms, the case is probably one of primary periosteal inflammation, and the medulla need not be opened up at once ; were this done in a case in which the medulla is healthv, the latter might become infected and a still more serious condition would arise. The whole of the bone from which the periosteum has been separated should be examined for a soft spot leading to the medulla and indicating a point of perforation from within. The incision should expose the whole of the affected area ; a small incision is useless. After-treatment.—The wound may be lightly stuffed with gauze to keep the skin edges apart, but it must not be packed so tightly as to interfere with the escape of the discharge. Large drainage tubes should be inserted down to the bottom of the woimd among the packing unless the affected area of bone be quite superficial. If the operation be done with all antise]:)tic precautions, it is remarkable how little bone may die—sometimes none at all. If, however, the constitutional symptoms are still severe after twenty- four hours, the presumption is that there is osteo-myelitis present as well, and, therefore, the stufhng should be removed, the edges of the wound held apart, and the medulla opened and treated as recommended below (see p. 434). If, on the contrary, the symptoms subside in two or three days, the stuffing mav be removed and the wound stitched up again, except at the lower end, where a drainage tube should be retained until it is graduallv pushed out by the granulations. If there be no necrosis, the woimd will heal readily ; if a sequestrum is going to form it will manifest itself partly by the persistence of a sinus and partly by the presence of bare bone which can be felt with a probe. But it must not be assumed that a sequestrum will necessarily separate in cases of acute periostitis because bare bone is felt for two or three weeks after the abscess has been opened. If the bone continues bare for six weeks