ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY of retractors. This exposes a triangular space bounded above and on the outer side by the omo-hyoid, on the inner side by the edge of the anterior scalene muscle, and below by the first rib, in which will be seen the cords of the brachial plexus above, and the subclavian artery below as it passes over the first rib. Below the subclavian artery, but separated from it by the anterior scalene muscle, is the subclavian vein, which should not, however, be seen during the course of the operation. Above and to the outer side of the artery is the lowest cord of the brachial plexus (see Fig 74). The lowest cord of the plexus is clearly defined and the artery is Fig. 74.—Ligature of the Third Part of the Right Subclavian Artery. Second stage, (a) Trapezius ; (b) omo-hyoid ; (c) cords of the brachial plexus ; (d) supra-scapuhar artery and vein; (e) transversalis colli artery and vein; (/) sub- clavian artery ; (g) internal jugular vein ; (h) subclavian vein (this is only seen through a very small part of its extent in the corner of the wound) ; (I) sterno- inastoid muscle. then seen lying parallel to, and on a deeper plane than, its lower edge. It is easy to verify this by feeling the pulsation in the vessel. After the vessel has been identified, the sheath is opened where the vessel lies upon the first rib, the opening seized with forceps, and a blunt probe, or, better, an unthreaded aneurysm needle insinuated between the sheath and the vessel. The needle is then withdrawn, threaded and passed around the \'essel from before backwards and from below upwards, so as to avoid the possibility of puncturing the vein with the point of the needle. In order to do this, however, a specially constructed needle with a double bend, the second one corresponding to the bend of the clavicle (see Fig. 75) is necessary ; otherwise the needle must be passed from above downwards. Some authorities recommend that the needle should alwaj's be passed in the latter direction in order to avoid inclusion of the lowest cord of the