539 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT by a stout knife, often termed a ' Syme's ' or a ' foot' knife (see Fig. 247) and the two original points are connected by an incision carried directly across the front of the ankle from one point to the other by the shortest route, so that there is no true dorsal flap. The next step is to dissect up the heel flap from the os calcis. The assistant should raise the limb until it is on a convenient level for the surgeon, and should depress the toes so as to relax the structures over the heel while the flap is raised from the os calcis by pressing back the edge of the flap with the thumb of the left hand, and dissecting up everything down to the periosteum. As the flap is raised, the thumb pulls it back and prevents it from being damaged by the knife, the edge of which should be kept strictly in contact with the bone. The greatest difficulty is met with as the prominence of the heel is reached ; at this point special care must be taken not to nick the posterior tibial artery on the inner side of the ankle, as such an accident would imperil the nutrition of the flap. As soon as the prominence of the heel has been passed, the difficulty of the operation is over. The assistant then puts the tendo Achillis on the stretch, and the surgeon divides this structure and continues to raise the flap from the posterior surface of the ankle- joint. When the heel flap has been raised to the level of the ankle-joint the surgeon takes charge of the foot himself, bends it forcibly downwards and proceeds to disarticulate from the front. This is done by deepening the original incision across the front of the instep, dividing the tendons and opening the joint. The lateral ligaments are next divided and finally the posterior ligament ; the posterior tibial artery must be guarded from damage during the manipulations on the inner side. An easier way of doing this very tedious operation is to deepen the dorsal incision directly it has been made, open the joint, disarticulate from the front, and separate the heel flap from above downwards instead of from below upwards. After the foot has been removed, the soft parts are cleared from the lower end of the bones as far up as the level of the articular surface. In doing this, great care must be taken not to damage the posterior tibial artery and also not to button-hole the posterior flap, as is sometimes done by careless operators who double it up against the skin of the leg and forget it. A saw is then applied at right angles to the long axis of the leg just above the articular surface of the tibia. It is not necessary to remove the whole of the articular cartilage unless it be diseased. All Fic. 247.—Syme's ' Foot-knife.' This is a strong-bladed knife with a stout bacl<, so that there is not much risk of breaking the point when raising the flap.