AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 386 recommended on p. 379, The question of abduction or rotation outwards of the upper fragment is easily determined by noting the direction of the outer surface of the great trochanter ; the position of the lower fragment must be arranged accordingly. When there is marked tilting forwards of the upper fragment, a shield of plaster of Paris may be applied over the front of the limb so as to press the fragment back into position. The shield is made of a layer of house flannel, broad enough to cover the whole of the front of the limb, and plentifully smeared with plaster so as to increase its weight ; if necessary, the pressure may be increased by moulding sheet lead and laying it upon the splint (see Fig. 189). If the patient be restless, it may be necessary to put on a long Liston's splint in addition. This should never be done, however, unless it be absolutely necessary, as it materially interferes with the extension, and much heavier weights must be employed if it is used. It is well to take a stereoscopic radiogram a day after the injury, in order to see the position of the fragments ; any shortening can be ascertained by measurement. Some shortening is inevitable, but the weight extension must be increased if it exceeds half an inch. When heavy weights have to be employed, the strapping applied to the thigh often slips and gives rise to troublesome ulceration. In order to avoid this, the leg and foot may be put up in lateral poroplastic or Croft's splints reaching above the knee, and the extension attached to this. A still simpler method is to fasten the extension to a boot : very powerful extension indeed can be then applied without fear of its slipping or causing ulceration. Of course, if the weight necessary to produce effectual extension be so great as to cause pain from undue stretching of the ligaments of the knee, this method is useless ; an attempt may then be made to keep the fragments in position by means of a Hodgen's splint, and if that fails operative interference will be essential if a good result is to be obtained. In Children.—In very young children it is extremely difficult to treat these fractures satisfactorily with the limb in the horizontal position. Any apparatus rapidly gets soiled and requires changing, while the smallness of the limb renders it difficult to secure a splint properly, and, therefore, the fracture does not remain at rest. Even plaster of Paris and silicate casings are open to the same objection, for, although they fix the Limb fairly well, they soon get soiled, and become soft and useless, while the skin is irritated and may ulcerate. Vertical Extension.-—In all children under five years of age it is best to suspend the fractured limb in the vertical position at right angles to the trunk. All discharges then pass backwards, there is no possibility of the apparatus becoming soiled, and it is quite easy to keep up efficient extension. A stirrup is applied to the affected limb extending as high as the lower part of the thigh, and to this a cord is fastened which is attached to a bar arranged above the cot or bed, directly over the pelvis, and supported upon two uprights, one at either end of the bed, of sufficient