GLUTEAL ANEURYSM 245 GLUTEAL ANEURYSM. This is not of common occurrence, and may be either spontaneous or traumatic, generally the latter. TREATMENT.—The best treatment is ligature of the internal iliac vessel. Before deciding upon the precise operation it is very important to make an examination per rectum or per vaginmji in order to ascertain the exact position of the aneurysmal sac. Ligature of the Internal Iliac Artery.—When the aneurysm encroaches upon the pelvis, ligature of the internal iliac artery must be employed. This can be done either by a trans-peritoneal incision or by an extra-peritoneal operation. The earlier steps of these operations are the same as those described (see p. 224) for ligature of the external or common iliac trunk. The ureter must be carefully avoided and the needle passed from above downwards, so as to avoid the internal iliac vein which lies behind and to the inner side of the artery. In the trans- peritoneal operation special care must be taken in passing the ligature to avoid including the ureter, which crosses the vessel in front, but which is, however, usually turned forwards with the peritoneum. A good light is essential for success, as the separation ol the artery from the large internal iliac vein has to be done very carefully. Surgical Anatomy.—The internal iliac artery is covered by the peri- toneum under which the ureter descends. On the left side the large intestine (ilio-pelvic colon) crosses from the front to the inner side of the artery, and on the right side the termination of the ileum has a similar relation. The internal iliac vein, the lumbo-sacral nerve and the sacrum are in close relation to the artery posteriorly, while the external iliac vein separates it from the psoas muscle, and the obturator nerve lies between the artery and the lateral wall of the pelvis below the vein. Collateral Circulation after Ligature of the Internal Iliac Artery.—This is accomplished by the anastomosis of the middle sacral with the lateral sacral ; the inferior ha;morrhoidal with the superior haemorrhoidal ; the circumflex iliac with the ilio-lumbar and lumbar arteries ; the branches of the profunda femoris with those of the sciatic and gluteal; the internal pudic, vesical, and haemorrhoidal with those of the opposite side. The two following operations are described because they are some- times practised on the cadaver ; they are practically obsolete in surgery. Lig-ature of the Gluteal Kvt&vy.Surgical Anatomy.—This vessel emerges from the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch above the jiyriformis muscle, its point of exit corresponding to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the great trochanter when the thigh is slightly flexed and rotated inwards. The gluteal artery at once divides between the pyriformis and gluteus muscles, beneath the gluteus maximus, into a superficial and deep branch. The former,