AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 358 It occasionally happens that the displacement is very trivial, although a radiogram shows that there is a definite and typical fracture. If the movements of the joint are good, and especially if the pronation and supination are normal, it is usually wise to leave any slight displacement alone and attempt to restore mobility by massage and movements. This is particularly the case when the patient is not seen until several weeks have elapsed after the injury, which has been supposed to be a mere sprain of the wrist. SEPARATION OF THE LOWER EPIPHYSIS OF THE RADIUS. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the radius sometimes occurs in young subjects and is more often due to direct than to indirect violence. If any of the epiphyses give way in the latter form of violence, it is usually that of the lower end of the humerus. The hne of separation is more transverse, the displacement is more directly backwards, and there is not the characteristic rotation of the lower fragment, nor do the fragments override as in cases of Colles's fracture. Bad results not uncommonly follow this accident from arrest of development of the radius. This may be so considerable as to necessitate removal of a portion of the lower end of the ulna at a later period, in order to keep the articular surfaces of the two bones at their proper relative levels, and to prevent deviation of the hand to the radial side ; a second opera- tion may be necessary still later, in order to correct the deformity produced by continued growth of the ulna. TREATMENT.—This is essentially the same as that of Colles's fracture (see p. 355). FRACTURE OF THE STYLOID PROCESS OF THE ULNA. This may occur in connection with Colles's fracture, but it may be met with as the result of a direct blow over the inner side of the wrist, as, for example, by a stick. TRBATMEISTT.—The hmb should be put up with the hand in the abducted position so as to relax all tension upon the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. Union is generally by fibrous tissue. FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES. Fracture of both bones at the lower end of the forearm is not common, and usually results from severe direct violence. The treatment is prac- tically the same as for Colles's fracture (see p. 355).