AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 342 is ineffectual as a method of tightening it up, and causes the wire to cut through the bone. The wire is cut off short and the ends are hammered down on to the bones with a small tack-hammer, so as to bury them completely in the fascia. The wound is sutured without a drainage tube and a considerable mass of dressing is put on, so that it shall restrict the movements of the joint; the limb is put up with the elbow flexed almost to a right angle. The wire will prevent any separation of the fragments, and the rectangular position is better than the straight as far as the subsequent movement is concerned. No splint is necessary ; the arm is placed in a sling, and the patient is allowed to move the elbow- joint if he desires to do so. There is no risk of his moving the limb to such an extent as to interfere with the healing of the wound. A fter - treatment. — The dressing should be left untouched for a week or ten days when the stitches are removed and a collodion dressing is applied. The arm is replaced in the sling, but before doing so it is well to employ a little passive move- ment. As a general rule, no ad- hesions of any consequence will be found. After the lapse of another two or three days the patient may be allowed to dress, to put the arm into a sleeve, to move it for pur- poses of feeding and so forth, and, although he should be enjoined not Fig. i52.—a Fractured Olecranon united Iq qj- mOVe heaVV Weights, nO BY A Wire. To show the exact position that . . " ° the wire occupies, marked restriction need be placed on its use; three weeks after the injury the arm is generally as useful as it was before. Of course at this time there is no firm bony union but the wire does not yield, and bony union occurs in spite of the movement of the joint. In this way adhesions are avoided, and there is no necessity for forcible movements and meissage later on. We attach much importance to the method of putting up the limb in a large mass of dressing without any splint. Adhesions are very apt to form if a spUnt be used, and these may give rise to considerable difficulty in the after-treatment, as they may require considerable force to break them down and a re-fracture is not at all unlikely to result. Palliative.—When there is only slight separation of the fragments {vide, supra), when some grave constitutional disease, such as diabetes, renders operative interference a serious matter, or when the patient