EXPOSURE OF NERVES IN THE LOWER LIMB 141 heads of the triceps ; in front of it is the superior profunda artery which accompanies it. In the Lower Third of the Arm.—Here the nerve lies in front of tlie liumerus, between the supinator longus externally and the brachialis anticus internally. The elbow is flexed to an angle of 135°, the forearm is fully pronated, an incision is made over the inter- muscular septum and the muscles are displaced outwards and inwards, when the nerve will be seen lying on the bone just before it divides into the two terminal branches—the radial and the posterior interosseous. OPERATIONS FOR EXPOSING THE MAIN NERVE TRUNKS IN THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The only nerves that are likely to require exposure in the lower limb are the great sciatic or its branches. EXPOSURE OF THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. This nerve nans vertically down the back of the thigh to below its centre, where it divides into the internal and external popliteal trunks. It lies first beneath the gluteus maximus and the biceps muscles, and it is generally exposed below the lower edge of the former. Its course is represented by a line drawn from the centre of the interval between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter to the middle of the ham. The nerve is exposed by an incision five or six inches long, along this line and commencing above at the gluteal fold, the patient being turned almost completely over upon the face, and the thigh fully extended. When the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle are exposed, they are hooked well up out of the way with large retractors, the deep fascia of the thigh is divided, and the nerve is found by following the outer edge of the hamstring muscles, beneath and to the outer side of which it lies (see Fig. 52) ; these muscles are therefore pulled strongly inwards. The nerve is freed from the surrounding parts by a suitable dissector, two fingers are hooked around it, and it is gradually pulled well up out of the wound. It should always be pulled sufficiently far out of the wound to allow four fingers to pass between it and the back of the thigh (see Fig. 53). EXPOSURE OF THE INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. This nerve nnis downwards in the centre of the popliteal space considerabh' behind the artery and the vein, i.e. between them and the skin, and may be exposed by a vertical incision over the centre of