AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 292 the smaller vessels of the lungs, the brain, or the kidneys, and may give rise to serious symptoms. The symptoms of fat-embolism following a simple fracture generally come on within a few hours of the injury, and naturally vary according to the seat of the embolism. When the emboli are lodged in the lungs infarcts form, and are followed by oedema of the lungs and patches of pneumonia. In very rare cases the emboli may be sufficiently numerous to kill the patient in a few minutes. The symptoms are sometimes difficult to distinguish from those of shock, but as a rule they do not come on for some hours after the injury, whereas the onset of shock is generally coincident with the accident. The first symptoms are severe dyspnoea, accompanied by pain in the chest, cyanosis, and cough, with frothy blood-stained expectoration. If the patient recover from this, pneumonia develops. When the emboli occur in the brain, the symptoms are delirium, followed by coma. The pulse is small, rapid, and irregular, and the coma may gradually deepen until death ensues ; in some cases, however, the coma slowly passes off and recovery takes place. The symptoms are rarely severe when the emboli are in the kidneys ; there may be strangury and haematuria, but usually the emboli manifest themselves only by large quantities of oil in the urine. The first thing obviously is to prevent the further entrance of fat into the circulation. With this object the fracture must be reduced immediately and completely immobiHsed. When the patient is rest- less or inclined to be delirious, a Croft's splint (see p. 266) is the best apparatus. In the treatment of the embolism itself nothing specific can be done ; all that is possible is to treat symptoms as they arise. Stimulants are indicated, and are best given by the mouth ; in the more severe cases, subcutaneous injections of ether or brandy may be required. When the emboli ai^e in the Imigs, it is useful to cup the sides and back of the chest (see Vol. I. p. 7) ; later on, the application of a mustard leaf or mustard poultices (see Vol. I. p. 19) will help to reheve the dyspnoea. The patient should be kept warm and have plenty of fresh air. Inhala- tions of oxygen should be employed if there be much cyanosis. THE TREATMENT OF THE COMPLICATIONS OCCURRING DURING THE PROGRESS OF A FRACTURE. The chief complications that may occur during the treatment of a fracture are : (i) ffidema, pruritus and the formation of vesicles ; (2) phlebitis and thrombosis ; (3) gangrene ; (4) ischasmic paralysis ; (5) septic complications, such as suppuration, erysipelas, cellulitis, tetanus, etc. ; (6) oedema of the lungs and hypostatic pneumonia ; (7) dehrium tremens ; (8) bed-sores ; (9) necrosis ; (10) mal-union ; (11) non-union ;