AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 354 As soon as the wound has healed, the arm should be put up in a silicate casing which extends as high as the axilla, fixes the elbow at a right angle and keeps the forearm midway between pronation and supination • the wrist-joint should also be fixed, with the hand extended upon the forearm and the fingers left free. This apparatus should not be left off untd union is complete. It must be confessed, however, that it is often difficult to get firm union after an operation for an ununited fracture of the forearm. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER THIRD OF THE FOREARM. The following injuries may be met with in this situation: Fracture of both bones a httle distance above the wrist; separation of the epiphysis of the radius j fracture of the radius near its lower end—Colles's fracture ; and fracture of the styloid process of the ulna. colles's fracture. This is by far the most important fractme in this region ; it occurs at the lower end of the radius, usually from three-quarters of an inch to an inch and a half above the articular surface. It is accompanied by a characteristic displacement of the lower fragment and the hand, and is often complicated by rupture of the intei^nal lateral hgament, or by fracture of the tip of the styloid process of the ulna. The fracture is fairly common and is more frequent in old people than in young, and in women than in men. The usual cause is a fall upon the palm of the outstretched hand when the elbow is somewhat flexed; in young subjects, this accident is more hkely to produce an injury about the elbow or shoulder-joints, but as hfe advances and the lower end of the radius becomes more brittle, it usually gives rise to a Colles's fracture. In falls upon the palm the force is transmitted from the thenar emin- ence to the radius, and the bone breaks at its weakest part; at the same time the lower end of the radius is driven backwards and upwards, and is also somewhat rotated, so that the articular surface looks downwards, backwards, and somewhat outwards instead of directly downwards. The fracture is often impacted, the upper fragment being driven into the lower ; it is not uncommon to find the latter considerably split up in these cases and the fracture extending into the joint. The hne of fracture is usually transverse from side to side, but obhque from below upwards and backwards. There is frequently rupture of the internal lateral hgament of the wrist-joint, and in some cases the attachment of the triangular fibro-cartilage to the ulna is also torn through or the styloid process of the ulna is torn off.