288 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES. The complications incidental to fractures may be divided into—(i) Those that occur at the time of the injury and are due directly to it, and (2) those that occur during the subsequent progress of the case. THE TREATMENT OF IMMEDIATE COMPLICATIONS. The following are the chief complications occurring at the time of the accident: (a) The skin may be divided or torn in the vicinity of the fracture without, however, any communication with the fracture itself being established; (h) injury to the main artery of the limb ; (c) injury to the main vein ; {d) injury to the nerves ; (e) injury to a neighbouring viscus ; (/) injuries to joints ; (g) dislocation complicating the fracture; {h) fatty embolism. Wounds of the Skin not communicating with the Fracture.—The treatment of a complication of this kind is simply that of a wound of the soft parts ; the skin and the wound must be disinfected and the appropriate treatment for a lacerated wound must be adopted (see Vol. I. p. 171). Injury to the Main Artery of the Limb.—In some cases the main artery of the limb may be torn and profuse haemorrhage may occur into the tissues. If the vessel be large and the tissues lax, the patient may actually bleed to death. Failing this, a large blood swelling occurs, accompanied by loss of the pulse in the limb below and coldness and numbness of the extremity. In other cases the artery may be occluded by the pressure exerted upon it by one of the displaced frag- ments ; or again, it may be punctured by a spicule of bone, with the result that haemorrhage occurs from the aperture, and a false or traumatic aneurysm ensues. The treatment of these injuries is dealt with under injuries of the arteries (see Vol. I. p. 106). It is important to cut down upon and secure the divided ends of a torn vessel as soon as possible ; delay only renders the operation more difficult owing to the infiltration of the tissues with blood and lymph, and if the bleeding be allowed to continue, the interference with the circulation in the limb below the fracture will increase and may lead to gangrene from pressure upon the collateral circulation, should the patient not die of the haemorrhage. As soon, therefore, as the diagnosis has been made, the skin should be disinfected and the circulation controlled by Esmarch's elastic tourniquet. A free incision is then made over the line of the vessel, the clots are turned out and the ends of the artery exposed and tied. If the cavity formed by the extravasated blood be large, it is well to insert a drainage tube for the first few days. The treatment of the fracture itself will follow the hues already