REMOVAL OF THE SCAPULA 529 of the muscles attached to the coracoid process and the free haemorrhage which may follow division of the sub-scapular artery or its dorsalis scapulae branch. In order to overcome these difficulties, which are most likely to be met with when there is a large growth which displaces the parts con- siderably, we have recommended 1 that the operation should be commenced by a separate incision into the a.xilla through which the muscles are detached from the coracoid process and the sub-scapular artery is tied. This procedure has the further advantage that the vessels and nerves can be separated from all connection with the scapula or the tumour, and kept out of the way by an assistant throughout the remainder of the operation; if they should be involved in the tumour, the opera- tion will have to be converted into a Ber- ger's operation and the whole upper extremity removed. Operation. — Prelim- inary Incision.—An incision similar in direc- tion to that for ligature of the third part of the axillary artery (see p. 216), but about six inches long, is made along the line of the axillary artery from its junction with the bra- chial, so that the axilla is opened up throughout its whole extent. The anterior fold of the axilla is raised so as to expose the coracoid process, and the pectoralis minor, the coraco-brachialis, and the short head of the biceps are divided close to the bone. This exposes the axillary artery so that its sub-scapular branch can be identified and ligatured. The large vessels and nerves are then raised by the hand passed beneath them and separated from any adhesion to the growth ; a broad copper spatula may be passed between them and it, and left in position during the rest of the operation. Incision for Flaps.—The patient is now turned over almost upon the face, and incisions are made for the removal of the scapula. When the Fig. 2\2.—.Imputation of the Scapula. A, The most suitable incisions when the deltoid and latissimus dorsi muscles are not in- volved in the growth. B, Incisions useful when these muscles are so involved. The vertical incision in these casesoften has to be made an elliptical one. [The preliminary axillary incision recommended in the text is not shown.] See Clinical Society's Transactions, vol. x.Kviii. p. 284.