122 AFFECTIONS OF NERVES Excision of Bone.—When the interval between the cut ends is more than two inches, and the condition of the part allows of it, a portion of the bone may be excised and the limb shortened so as to bring the divided ends of the nerve together. For instance, when a considerable portion of one of the nerves in the upper arm has been lost, a portion of the humerus can be excised so as to allow the nerve ends to come together. Preservation of the nerve function is of such importance that an operation of this kind should be done without hesitation in suitable cases. The divided ends of the bone are fastened together by one of the methods described in con- nection with fractures (see p. 305). Nerve Implantation.—The im- plantation of one nerve into another has been frequently performed with some success. The operation may be done in two ways. A case in which the median nerve has been divided and the ulnar nerve is intact may be taken as an illustration. In the first method the upper end of the median is refreshed, and implanted into the ulnar by making an incision through the sheath of the latter at one side so as to divide some of its fibres, inserting the end of the median into the opening thus made, and attaching the two nerves together by fine catgut sutures passed through their sheaths. The lower end is then refreshed and attached to the ulnar lower down (see Fig. 40). The principle of this method is that new nerve fibres will grow downwards within the sheath of the ulnar nerve, and reach and enter the lower end of the median again ; or, failing this, that impulses will be conducted through the intervening portion of the ulnar, and will pass downwards along the distal portion of the divided median. The second method is to attach only the distal end of the divided nerve to the sound one (see Fig. 41), by a lateral implantation similar to that just described. The object of this is to cause impulses passing down u m u wi Fig. 42.—Nerve-grafting BY Double Lateral Implantation. Here the four ends are refreshed and the proximal end of the median (m) is united end-to-end with the distal end of the ulnar ;«). The proximal end of the ulnar and the distal end of the median are then implanted laterally into the single trunk thus formed.