AFFECTIONS OF NERVES 126 gouty, a course of colchicum and iodide of potassium should be adminis- tered and the diet suitably regulated. In syphilitic cases much good may be done by the appropriate treatment for the particular stage of that disease (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). The general health should be attended to in all cases. If there be anaemia, the administration of iron and arsenic will often give great relief to the pain ; quinine is also a valuable drug. In acute neuritis a mercurial or sahne ftirge should be adminis- tered, calomel being the best for the purpose. The patient should be confined to bed if the neuritis affect the lower extremity, or to a warm room if it be situated elsewhere. Should there be a septic wound, this should be properly drained (see Vol. I. p. 165). Hot fomentations over the nerve are often of value, and a few drops of tincture of belladonna may be added to them with advantage ; their action may be enhanced by applying an india-rubber hot-water bottle outside them. The frequent use of hot baths, or douches, or a Turkish bath is often followed by con- siderable relief. If a Turkish bath be employed, however, it must be one of the small portable baths that can be used in the patient's own room ; anyone suffering from acute neuritis ought not to go out of doors for the purpose of taking a bath, because of the risk of catching cold afterwards and aggravating the affection. Superheated air or radiant heat often gives good results, particularly when the neuritis affects the upper extremity. Local blood-letting by leeches applied along the course of the nerve should be used when the fomentations do not give sufficiently prompt rehef ; the hot fomentations should be continued afterwards. When the pain is very acute, it will be necessary to have resort to anodynes, and those on which the chief reliance is to be placed are morphine and cocaine or yS-eucaine Cocaine is the most certain of these drugs ; it should be injected hypodermically in doses of about a sixth of a grain as a 2 per cent, solution as near the seat of pain as possible, or along the course of the nerve higher up, not all at one spot, but a drop or two at a time, into the tissues around the nerve. It acts locally upon the nerve affected, and thus often produces immediate, though temporary, relief ; y8-eucaine may also be used in somewhat larger doses (J to J grain). When the pain is very severe, and the affection comparatively widespread, it may be necessary to have recourse to subcutaneous injections of morphine, and these are likely to be more certain and more lasting in their effect than cocaine. Great care, however, must always be taken in emplo5nng remedies of this kind to avoid setting up a morphine or cocaine habit ; nothing is worse than to allow a patient to practise the injection for him- self, or to have the drug injected whenever he desires it. Phenacetin and antipyrin, in 5 to lo-grain doses every four hours, are also of use in some cases. Exalgin in 2 to 3-grain doses is especially useful in neuritis affecting the face or head. Apart from this necessity for relieving the