364 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES of the finger in the vagina. To enable the proper manipulations for reduction of the deformity to be carried out effectually an anaesthetic is necessary. During the first fortnight it is necessary to avoid distension of the abdomen, as this is calculated to pull upon the fragments through the agency of the abdominal muscles, and thus to give rise to considerable pain ; suitable laxatives and enemata must therefore be administered. Three or four weeks must elapse before sufficient union has occurred to enable the patient to be moved without pain, and it will be about eight weeks altogether before he can be allowed to sit up ; after another two or three weeks he may be allowed to get about, at first with crutches, and later on with two sticks. FRACTURES OF THE INDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE PELVIS. When any of the individual bones forming the pelvis are fractured separately the treatment varies slightly. FRACTURES OF THE ILIUM. The alae of the ilium are not uncommonly fractured by severe local- ised direct violence ; the fracture is generally limited to the false pelvis. TRBATMBISTT.—The patient should be placed in bed with the knees flexed and fastened over a pillow; it is not advisable here to apply a bandage as in the cases just described, because its pressure would be likely to drive the fragments inwards. A stout sandbag on either side of the pelvis with a sheet stretched over the abdomen will suffice to keep the parts at rest. The patient may get up in about three weeks, using crutches at first, and afterwards getting about with the aid of a stick. FRACTURES OF THE ISCHIUM. The tuberosity of the ischium may be fractured, and the separated portion of bone is sometimes drawn downwards by the muscles attached to it. Often, however, there is no separation, owing to the fact that the ligamentous structures in the neighbourhood are untom. TREATMENT.—When there is httle separation, an attempt may be made to obtain union by relaxing the muscles attached to the ischium ; for this purpose the patient should lie on the opposite side with the thigh fully extended upon the pelvis and the knee flexed. Since union will be by fibrous tissue, it is better to cut down and expose the fracture in all cases in which there is much separation, and then to fix it in position with pegs or screws.