AMPUTATIONS 540 that is requisite is to saw off the malleoH. The leg is held horizontal by the assistant while the saw is being applied. The vessels requiring ligature are the anterior tibial in the centre of the dorsal flap, the posterior tibial (or more probably its internal and external plantar branches) towards the inner edge of the heel flap, and one or two small vessels on the outer side. The anterior and posterior tibial nerves should be pulled out and divided high up. A small counter- opening is made in the centre of the heel flap for the insertion of a drain- age tube ; this is very necessary, as otherwise the flap is certain to fill with blood, and healing may be interfered with. The wound is united by several stout interrupted stitches inserted at some distance from the cut edges so as to prevent any chance of the heavy heel flap becoming detached ; the union is completed by an ordinary continuous suture. The limb is placed upon a posterior straight splint with a special pad behind the heel flap so as to support it and press it forwards. When the case is aseptic the drainage tube may be removed after three or four days. After-treatment.—In this amputation treatment must be continued after the wound has healed, because, owing to the weight of the flap, there is a considerable tendency to drag the scar over the front of the lower end of the bones. This would lead to a tender scar and interfere greatly with walking. The stump must therefore be bandaged as described on p. 502, so as to pull forward and fix the heel flap. After healing is complete, it is well to impregnate the bandage thus applied with starch so that it shall enclose the stump in a stiff unyielding case. The patient can usually begin to bear weight upon the stump in eight weeks ; before that time he can get about wearing a peg-leg. Pirogoff's Amputation.—Syme's amputation has been modified by Pirogoff who saws through the os calcis ; the posterior portion of the bone is left behind in the heel flap. Pirogoff's operation, however, is unsuitable for any but a few rare cases. It is very troublesome to per- form, and its results are not materially better than those obtained from Syme's amputation, whilst instrument-makers rather object to it on account of the greater difficulty experienced in fitting an artificial foot. We shall therefore not describe the operation. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE ANKLE BY AN INTERNAL FLAP. In some cases Syme's amputation may with advantage be abandoned in favour of a somewhat similar one in which the posterior is replaced by an internal flap. On the whole, this operation is inferior to Syme's, because the skin in this situation is not so fitted for bearing pressure as is that over the heel. Nevertheless it gives a good result, as the skin becomes thickened and capable of bearing pressure after a time. The incision commences at the tip of the external malleolus and runs across the front of the ankle with a slight convexity do\vnward until it reaches