247 ANEURYSMS OF THE LEG AND FOOT ANEURYSMS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. These are not at all common ; they are generally situated on the posterior tibial artery, but may be met with on the peroneal or the anterior tibial. In the foot aneurysms are exceedingly rare, and are generally traumatic, the most common situation being on the dorsalis pedis. The best treatment of these aneurysms, as a rule, is to extirpate them entirely. The methods of exposing the arteries concerned are given below. Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery,—Surgical Anatomy.— This artery descends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the centre of the front of the ankle-joint. Its course is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to another point on the front of the ankle, midway between the two malleoli. The artery is deeply placed above, and, as it descends, it inclines inwards towards the tibia, crossing the front of the lower third of that bone and becoming superficial. It rests upon the interosseous membrane, the anterior surface of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the ankle- joint. In the upper third of the leg, it lies between the extensor longus digitorum and the tibialis anticus ; in the middle third it lies between the latter muscle and the extensor longus hallucis, and in the lower third it is between the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis and the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve is at lirst to the outer side of the artery, then in front of its middle third, and finally it again passes to its outer side, separating the artery from the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. Two ven^ comites accompany the artery, and anastomose freely across it at short intervals. This vessel may be tied at any part of its course. The operation is most frequently done in the upper or the lower third. The leg should be adducted and rotated somewhat inwards, and the hip and knee joints somewhat flexed. In the Upper Third.—An incision four inches long should be made over the line of the artery, commencing about an inch below the external tuberosity of the tibia. After division of the skin and fascia, the outer edge of the tibiahs anticus is looked for, and the inter-muscular septum between this muscle and the extensor longus digitorum is opened up. While this is being done, it is well to raise the toes so as to reheve the tension upon the muscles, and to enable them to be separated more easily. The artery lies upon the interosseous membrane at the bottom of this space immediately after it has passed to the front of the leg. The anterior tibial nerve is not always seen in the operation, as it may reach the outer side of the artery somewhat lower down (see Fig. 107).