AFFECTIONS OF TENDONS 102 after the operation, and the patient encouraged to move the Hmb in bed, but he should not be allowed to get about until six weeks have elapsed from the time of the injury. This is the best method of treatment when the patient is healthy and vigorous, and the asepsis of the wound can be depended upon. But when the surgeon has not sufficient confidence in his asepsis, when the patient objects, or when his health is such that operation is deemed inadvisable, the case should be treated in the following manner. The limb is shaved, and a broad piece of strapping is fixed over the front of the thigh, extending about half-way up the limb and reaching down to the tubercle of the tibia. The portion which lies over the patella is cut away so that the lower end of the strapping is horse-shoe in shape, the sides of the horse-shoe surrounding the upper and lateral borders of that bone. The strapping is bandaged to the thigh, and tapes are sewn to it on each side of the patella, and to these the extension apparatus is attached. The limb is then placed on a back splint with a foot-piece at right angles, and at the sides of the foot-piece, close to the heel, holes are bored or bars are fitted, to which the extension apparatus can be attached. One end of a piece of india-rubber tubing is tied to each of the tapes just mentioned, and the other attached to the foot-piece of the splint or the bars upon it (see Fig. 33). By tightening these, any degree of tension required can be employed, and the idea of the apparatus is that traction on the strapping brings down the patella. The limb is kept considerably elevated, so as to relax the quadriceps extensor femoris. The appar- atus is kept on for about six weeks, the limb being gradually lowered during that time. When the patient begins to walk, the flexion of the joint must be increased very slowly, lest the union should give way again. When rupture of the ligamentum patellae has occurred a considerable time before the patient comes under notice, and no proper union has resulted, an operation should be done in the manner just described (see p. loi). In some cases it will be found that the short upper portion has curled up and become so matted to the tissues around that it is impossible to define it properly and get satisfactory approximation. Under these circumstances a drill may be passed transversely through the tubercle of the tibia and another transversely through the lower end of the patella, and a loop of strong silver wire passed through the drill holes, and twisted up tightly. The remains of the ligamentum patellae are then united by sutures and the wound closed. The patient may be allowed to walk about from the third week onwards, reliance being placed on the silver wire to act as a ligamentum patellae. Rupture of the Long Head of the Biceps Cubiti.—The long head of the biceps cubiti is generally torn from its scapular attachment, and no method of treatment by position is completely satisfactory. The plan in general use is to fix the arm across the chest, the shoulder and the