AFFECTIONS OF NERVES 120 (2) Both ends of the nerve may be enclosed in a tube of decalcified bone. (3) Nerve-grafting may be employed. In this procedure a portion of nerve taken from one of the lower animals (heteroplastic transplantation), or from the amputated Hmb of another patient (homoplastic transplanta- tion) , is introduced between the two ends of the nerve, and fixed there by sutures. Sometimes the graft may be derived from a less important nerve in the patient himself, e.g. the internal saphenous (autoplastic trans- plantation). (4) One or both of the divided ends of the nerve may be implanted into another nerve, which is intact (autoplastic grafting). (5) In some cases, when the affection is in the extremities, the interval between the cut ends may be dimin- ished by resecting portions of bones, and thereby shortening the limb and enabling the cut ends of the nerve to come into position. The great desideratum in all these cases is a suitable guide along which the nerve fibres, developing from the upper portion of the nerve, may find their way down to the lower portion, and the object of all these plans, except the last two, is to provide this. In our opinion the best plan for cases in which the interval between the cut ends does not exceed two inches is a combination of the first two methods mentioned above ; that is to say, the ends of the nerves are brought as closely together as possible, the interval between them is bridged by means of threads of catgut, and the whole of the defective portion is then surrounded by a tube of decalcified bone. This procedure has the great advantage that, while the decalcified bone tube provides a free and unimpeded channel, down which the new nerve fibres can spread, the threads of catgut ensure that the ends shall not be displaced should the bone tube become absorbed before the regenerated portion has reached the distal end. The Combined Method of Bridging with Catgut and Enclosure in a Decalcified Bone Tube.—The technique of the operation is as follows : After the ends have been freed and pared and the parts relaxed as much as Fig. 39.—Nerve-Suture by bridging WITH Catgut and enclosure in a decalci- fied Bone Tube. In A is shown the first stage of the procedure. The bone tube T has been slipped over one end, well out of the way. A centra) fixation stitch ab has been inserted, and then all round the periphery of the nerve a series of fine catgut stitches x have been inserted through the nerve sheath. In B the bone tube is shown after it has been slipped into place over the ends.