8 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES appear on the surface of tfie carbuncle, and in two or three days more these burst and leave openings exuding pus ; at the bottom of each a white slough is seen. If the case be untreated and the patient survives, the skin between the various openings sloughs to some extent, and thus a sufficiently large apertiire is formed to allow of the escape of the deeper-seated slough. During this process, however, the constitutional disturbance is often severe, and patients are liable to fall victims to general septic infection. Carbuncles occur most frequently in males over forty, and usually in parts where the skin is thick, as on the back. They are due to the same organism as boils, and often originate in connection with some local irritation, such as friction by the clothes, or want of cleanliness. The general condition plays a greater part in the production and course of carbuncles than it does in the case of boils, and thus carbuncles occur chiefly in cachectic or half-starved people, in drunkards, and notably in those suffering from diabetes. As regards the latter affection, it may be mentioned that sugar may appear in the urine during the course of a carbuncle, and may subsequently disappear when convalescence takes place. It is important, therefore, not to mistake this temporary glycosuria for true diabetes. The carbuncle in the diabetic is usually situated on the back of the neck, and is a very grave disease, as the patient often dies from diabetic coma, and is specially liable to septic infection elsewhere ; moreover, this form of the disease is sometimes slow and insidious in the early stages, and there is not the violent swelling seen in the ordinary form, the pain and the fever being only moderate in degree. If the case be leit to itself, and the patient live, it usually takes at least two months before the wound heals. PROGISTOSIS.—This depends on the size of the carbuncle, and the presence or absence of complications. In large carbuncles the prognosis is bad. TREATMENT.—General Treatment.—Opiates are always called for, partly to enable the patient to obtain sleep, and partly to diminish the amount of sugar when present ; codeine, in doses of a quarter to half a grain every four hours, is better than opium in diabetic cases. In addition, tonics should be administered, especially iron {e.g. pil. ferri redacti gr. iij, or tinct. ferr. perchlor. J\[ xv-xxv in water three times daily). The patient's strength must be supported by the free administration of liquid food ; if sugar be absent from the urine, three or four pints of milk should be given daily, along with raw meat juice. If diabetes be present, codeine should be given, and the patient dieted. When there is great weakness, it is not judicious to restrict the diet too much, but the use of sugar and starchy substances should be limited as far as possible, and as time goes on and the patient improves, the diet may be made more strict (see Vol. I. p. 80). Should the patient be passing into a typhoid state, stimulants should be used freely.