232 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURYSMS refuses operation, or when he is suffering from some grave constitutional affection, such as cardiac disease or diabetes. The vessel compressed is generally the common femoral at the groin. Digital compression should always be chosen in preference to the use of instruments, because the compression can be kept up more satis- factorily and with less pain to the patient. The great disadvantage of it is that a number of assistants are required ; it is impossible for any individual to keep up satisfactory pressure for much longer than fifteen minutes at a time, and in some cases many hours may be required before a cure is effected. The patient should be confined to bed for some days before the com- pression is practised, the bowels cleared out, and a preliminary course of medical treatment employed, in order to lower the blood pressure and promote the coagulability of the blood (see p. 172). Several days before the compression, the groin should be shaved, and sponged over with spirits of wine several times a day so as to increase its resisting power. The shav- ing minimises the danger of pustular eruptions from the friction of the com- pression, which might in- terfere with its proper performance. The skin should also be disinfected, so as to remove organisms which might be rubbed into the hair follicles. Immediately before the compression, the skin should be thickly dusted with equal parts of oxide of zinc and boric acid, and a large piece of boric lint should be applied over the part of the vessel to which the pressure is to be applied. In employing compression the assistant first feels for the pulsation of the artery as it passes over the brim of the pelvis at a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and when this is found he exerts pressure directly backwards. When the superficial femoral is compressed in Scarpa's triangle, the pressure should be directed backwards and outwards against the shaft of the femur. The simplest way to employ compression is for an assistant to sit in a chair upon the affected side and to place two or three fingers of the right hand directly over the line of the artery, and make pressure with them against the brim of the pelvis until pulsation in the aneurysm ceases. The pressure may be reinforced by two or three fingers of the left hand applied over Fig. 100,—Digital Compression of the Common Femoral Artery. The pressure of the fingers may be reinforced by a leaden weight or a bag of shot. The method illustrated is better than compression by encircling the limb with the two hands and making pressure with the thumbs, as less muscular effort is required.