36o AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES FRACTURES OF THE METACARPAL BONES. Generally these are the result of direct violence, but sometimes they may be due to indirect violence, as in a fall upon the closed fist. The first, second, or fifth metacarpal bones are most commonly broken ; sometimes there is very little deformity, sometimes there is some overlapping of the fragments. When the third or fourth metacarpal is fractured, the displacement is very shght, because the adjacent bones act as splints and keep the fragments in position. In some cases the fracture may be entirely overlooked, the patient only appljnng for advice when his attention is attracted to the mass of callus. TREATMENT.—If there be any tendency to overriding, the fracture should be reduced by extension of the corresponding finger; it then usually suffices to place a large ball of wool or worsted in the hand and forcibly flex the fingers over it, fixing them in this position with a stump bandage. A dorsal splint may also be put on to fix the wrist-joint, but it is seldom necessary unless there be some deformity over which it is desired to apply a certain amount of pressure. There is a tendency for the extensor tendon to adhere to the bone in the region of the fracture, and, with a view of avoiding this, the fingers should be released at any rate once a day so as to allow the patient to extend the finger. At the end of a fortnight the apparatus may Fig. 174.—Metal Splint for . ., Fractures of the Phalanges. bC dlSCOUtmUed CXCept ITl the CaSe of VCry The trough receives the finger, i t r , r r x j. while the flattened rounded por- obliquc fracture of oue of the outer meta- «on^goes into the palm of the carpals, whcu it should be kept on for a week longer. After the splint has been discontinued, the patient should carry the arm in a sling for another week and should be encouraged to move the fingers both actively and passively. Massage is also beneficial in promoting the free mobility of the fingers, and may be practised from the first with advantage. FRACTURES OF THE PHALANGES. Fracture of the phalanges by direct violence is not at all infrequent. The first phalanx is most commonly fractured owing to its greater length and mobihty. The displacement varies according to the cause of the fracture, but in most cases it is slight. TREATMENT.—After the fracture has been reduced, a moulded splint of block-tin or gutta-percha should be applied. The block-tin splint is the more useful and should be put on the anterior surface and cut, so that it covers the greater part of the palm ; this palmar portion fixes the metacarpo-phalangeal joint (see Fig. 174). The splint should be kept on for three or four weeks. After the first week the fracture should be taken down daily, and, whilst the fragments are fixed, the