DISARTICULATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT DISARTICULATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. Disarticulation at the knee-joint is most frequently required for malignant disease of the tibia, for injuries in which the condition of the parts does not allow of an amputation through the leg, and for gangrene of the foot when the tibial arteries are blocked. Whenever it is possible to obtain sufficient soft parts to cover in the condyles of the femur, dis- articulation is always preferable to amputation through the lower end of the bone, because the broad smooth condylar surfaces are most admir- ably adapted for bearing pressure. Instrument-makers rather object to amputations through the joint because they bring the new knee-joint in the artificial limb to a somewhat lower level than on the opposite side, but as a compensation for this we have a stump upon which the full weight of the patient can be borne without any trouble. In our opinion the best operation is that introduced by Stephen Smith, and often called the method by a ' hooded flap.' It is performed as follows : The patient lies upon his back with the sound leg flexed at the knee, and tied to the leg of the table so as to be out of the way of the surgeon, and with the limb on the affected side projecting well beyond the edge. The leg is fully extended and is held horizontally by an assistant, whilst the surgeon, standing on the patient's right, first defines with the left thumb and forefinger the tubercle of the tibia in front, and a spot in the middle of the popliteal space behind opposite the level of the knee- joint. The assistant then rotates the limb towards the surgeon, who bends over and enters the knife behind at the spot fixed in the popliteal space, and carries an incision vertically downwards for about a couple of inches, and then gradually sweeps downwards and forwards round the side of the limb furthest away from him, cutting a rounded flap with its convexity downwards and crossing the middle line an inch below the tubercle of the tibia. From this point the knife is drawn across the side of the limb nearest the surgeon, also in a curve with its convexity down- wards, and is carried obliquely upwards and backwards over the posterior surface to join the lower end of the vertical portion of the original incision (see Fig. 251, A). During the latter part of the procedure the limb is raised to the vertical position and rotated away from the surgeon. In- stead of bringing the incision transversely across the limb, it is well to make it run somewhat obliquely, so that the flap on the inner side is rather longer than that upon the outer, on account of the larger size of the internal condyle of the femur. It is also weU to notch the flap in front by carrying the incision almost up to the tubercle of the tibia and down again to its original level on the opposite side (see Fig. 251, A). This is not essential, but it gives a neater stump, and one which is easier to suture afterwards. The assistant now flexes the knee, whilst the surgeon raises the flap, which for the first inch should consist only of skin and subcutaneous II. NN