ACUTE INFLAMMATION 431 epiphyseal line ; its commonest seats are the lower end of the femur, tlie upper end of the tibia and the humerus, and the lower end of the radius. It is rare for the disease to begin beneath the periosteum, most of the cases of suppurative periostitis being secondary to osteo-myelitis. Of the short bones the os calcis is, perhaps, most frequently affected. The traiimalic form may occur at any age, and its situation is determined by that of the injury to which it is secondary. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES—The affected area of the medulla becomes greatly congested and the effusion fills up the Haversian canals and the medullary spaces, and accumulates beneath the periosteum ; the disease is therefore practically always a combination of acute periostitis and acute osteo-myelitis. The medulla becomes infiltrated, the periosteum thickened and swollen, and pus forms rapidly in both situations, some- times after a communication has been established between the two, but often before a hole has been formed in the dense bone. In young children the disease may remain localised to the neighbour- hood of the epiphyseal cartilage, and is then termed acute epiphysitis ; this condition may end in rapid destruction of the epiphyseal cartilage, or at any rate in solution of continuity between it and the shaft. More commonly, however, some portion of the latter also becomes involved. When no surgical treatment has been adopted and the patient survives, necrosis of a portion of the bone always results ; hence the term acute necrosis is often applied to this disease. The bone that dies is principally the dense shaft ; the necrosis may involve the whole length of the diaphysis, or it may be limited to a small area in the vicinity of the epiphysis. It may also involve the entire circumference of the shaft, or only a part of the central or peripheral portion. The sequestrum generally consists mainly of the outer portion ; at some part the whole thickness of the shaft may be involved, but seldom the whole circumference. The pus finds its way to the surface, and numerous sinuses may form later on, leading down to the sequestrum ; these will persist as long as the dead bone remains. When the abscess bursts, the severity of the inflammation usually subsides and separation of the dead bone commences. The length of time required for the separation of a sequestrum depends largely on the bone affected. In the case of the femur, the necrosed fragment may not be loose for six months or more, whereas in a smaller long bone, such as a phalanx, separation may take place within si.x weeks. While the dead bone is being separated, the periosteum becomes thickened and new bone is formed from its deeper surface, so that by the time the dead fragment is loose, a layer of new bone will have formed around it, enclosing it in a cavity and only leaving a few apertures (termed ' cloacs ') through which the pus escapes. When the seques- trum is removed, it is often hard to realise that the dead portion originally