AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 38o and should not be allowed to bear weight upon the limb for three or four weeks afterwards. Bony prominences interfering with movement are not infrequently met with in these cases of impacted fracture in which the impaction has not been broken up, and in these cases, therefore, the surgeon may find it necessary to cut down and chisel away the obstructing portions of bone. FRACTURES OF THE GREAT TROCHANTER. The great trochanter is sometimes, but very rarely, broken off without any solution of continuity occurring between the shaft of the femur and the neck. The detached portion is carried upwards and backwards by the muscles attached to it, and the separation is marked, if the fibrous struc- tures be torn through completely ; it may then be impossible to bring the fragment into position in any way except by operation. A stereo- scopic radiogram will reveal the site and extent of the fracture. TREATMENT.—A curved incision should be made over the great trochanter with its convexity forwards, and a flap thrown backwards so as to expose the fractured process ; the limb is fully abducted so as to relax the glutei, and the fragment pulled into position and secured firmty by screws or plates (see p. 305). The limb is placed in a posi- tion of abduction and retained there by sandbags, whilst a long splint is applied to the sound side to prevent movement of the trunk. When the wound has healed, the limb is put up in a plaster of Paris spica in the abducted position. The patient should be kept horizontal for about six weeks, and may then be allowed to bear weight upon the limb. There should be no dilhculty in obtaining a perfectly useful limb. FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. The shaft of the bone may be fractured by direct or indirect violence in any situation, the most common being just above the centre. The line of fracture from direct violence is generally transverse, whilst that resulting from indirect violence, such as a fall upon the knee or the foot, is oblique or spiral. FRACTURES JUST BELOW THE LESSER TROCHANTER. In these fractures the upper fragment is generally tilted forwards, rotated outwards, and somewhat abducted by the pull of the psoas and iliacus. The lower fragment is drawn upwards behind the upper, and is usually puUed slightly inwards by the adductors ; it is rotated outwards by the weight of the limb. TREATMENT.—The displacement of the short upper fragment