EXPOSURE OF NERVES IN THE UPPER LIMB 139 In the Arm.—The best place to expose the nerve is about the centre of the arm, where it is about to pass through the internal inter- muscular septum. This is done by an incision about two inches long, situated about half an inch internal to that employed for ligature of the brachial artery (see p. 218). The internal inter-muscular septum is exposed and divided, and the triceps is pulled weU backwards whilst the brachial artery and the septum are pulled forward ; the nerve will be found upon the inner side of the triceps accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. At the Elbow.—The nerve hes immediately behind the internal condyle in the interval be- tween it and the olecranon, and can be felt by the finger, and exposed by a somewhat curved incision over the ole- cranon turning a flap in- wards. This operation is not often required, but it may have to be done for a neuroma upon the nerve or for some inflammatorv change about the internal condyle, giving rise to neu- ritis or to dislocation of the nerve forwards over the con- dyle. In the latter case, the nerve should be replaced in position after it has been ex- posed, and the fascia stitched over it so as to prevent the dislocation reciuring. Should the nerve re- 5°-—exposuri; of the ulnar nlrve behind the Internal Condyle. quire stretchmg, it is best exposed just above the condyle ; it can be felt immediately behind the condyle and traced upwards until it passes towards the front of the arm. Here it may be cut down upon behind the internal inter- muscular septum. On the Front of the Wrist.—Here the nerve is superficial and can be exposed by a small incision parallel to the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and on its ulnar side. After the skin and fascia have been divided, the nerve is seen with the ulnar artery lying on its outer side. EXPOSURE OF THE ]\IUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. This is the largest branch of the brachial plexus, and is at first situated behind the third part of the axillary artery. Lower down in the arm