4 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES from the tension under which it is, cause exquisite pain long before it gives rise to fluctuation or any other characteristic sign of an abscess. When the corn has been cut through, and the pus let out, the relief is immediate- The entire corn, which is undermined by the abscess, should then be clipped away with scissors, and warm boric fomentations applied ; they should be changed frequently and continued until all acute symptoms have subsided, when dilute boric ointment may be sub- stituted. This small operation, which ends in the permanent cure of the corn, is best done under nitrous oxide; local anaesthesia is not to be recommended. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Of these, multiple acute abscesses, boils, and carbuncles demand consideration; there are, in addition, various specific inflammatory con- ditions of the skin which must be noticed. The more diffuse inflammatory affections, such as acne, lichen, etc., do not properly belong to this group of surgical affections of the skin. MULTIPLE ACUTE ABSCESSES OF THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. This affection is not uncommon in infants and young children. The abscesses probably occur in connection with the sebaceous glands, and are principally due to dirt, eczema, scratching, etc. In infants they are often the result of dirty flannel being in constant contact with the skin, so that, as the child wriggles, the dirt from it is rubbed into the orifices of the glands. In infants the skin is thin and soft, and sloughing does not occur so readily as in the harder skin of adults, and hence acute inflammation of the skin in them leads to the formation of acute abscesses, which take the place of boils in adults. In morphinomaniacs similar abscesses are common. TRBATMEZSTT.—This is similar to that of abscesses generally. Any abscesses present should be opened freely with full antiseptic precautions (see Vol. I. p. 27), and the further spread of the trouble should be pro- vided against by thoroughly cleansing the skin, and disinfecting it with special care in the vicinity of the abscesses. The use of clean underlinen or flannel must be insisted on. The subsequent use of Wright's vaccine method {vide infra) may be of value. BOILS. Boils are closely related, as far as their seat of origin is concerned, to acne and impetigo, the latter being a pustular eruption of the skin in