548 AMPUTATIONS vein are then secured, and any articular or other small branches that may require it. ' When the soft parts are thickened and condensed by inflammation, the integument cannot well be reflected above the patella with such incisions of the skin. But the difficulty may be got over by cutting into the joint as soon as the ligamentum patellae is exposed, and at once removing the leg by dividing the ligaments and hamstrings, after which the soft parts can be retracted from the femur sufficiently to permit the apphcation of the saw. The arteries having then been secured, the patella is dissected out at leisure.' This amputation takes a little more time and is a little more difficult than Garden's, but any extra trouble is amply repaid by the good covering to the bone, the small external wound, and the perfect security against sloughing. garden's amputation. In Garden's original amputation a long anterior flap was formed by cutting downwards from the point at which the condyles of the femur are to be divided on the one side of the joint to below the level of the patella, and then bringing the incision across the front of the limb and up to a corresponding point upon the opposite side (see Fig. 251, C). The patella should be raised with this flap. When the flap has been reflected to the point of section of the condyles a transfixion knife is passed close behind the bone at that spot, and by a steady sweeping cut the soft parts and the skin are divided at right angles to the long axis of the bone, so that no posterior flap is made. The bone is then cleared at the proposed point of division, and the condyles removed by the saw which is applied at right angles to the long axis of the limb. THE STOKES-GRITTI AMPUTATION. The object of sawing the femur through the condyles is to furnish the patient with a broad flat surface upon which pressure may be borne. For the better accomplishment of this object it has been proposed to saw off the cartilaginous surface of the pateUa and to apply the cut surface thus made to the cut surfaces of the condyles. This procedure is known by the name of the Stokes-Gritti operation, but it does not present any advantages which counterbalance the increased time and patience required for its performance. It is difficult to cut off the cartilaginous surface of the patella completely and to apply it accurately to the sawn surface of the femur; and it is often very difficult, after this has been done, to secure it in position satisfactorily, and to prevent it being tilted away from the bone by the puU of the quadriceps extensor muscle. For these reasons we cannot recommend the operation and shall therefore not describe it. Its results are in no way better than those of the amputations already described.