FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE Fig. 207.—Pott's Fracture. adhesions in the tendon sheaths marked disability will result unless the displacement of the foot be remedied entirely. When the fracture has been allowed to go untreated, the patient is hardly able to walk at all, and the condition known as ' traumatic valgus ' occurs. Complications.—^The injury always involves the joint, and, therefore, there may be great difficulty in preserving free movement of the ankle. Defective movement may be due to imperfect reduction of the fracture, to union of the fractured surfaces in bad position, or to adhesions in the joint. Imperfect reduction may result either from inability to restore the internal malleolus to its proper position, or, more rarely, from the interposition of tendon, fascia or ligament between the articular surfaces of the tibia and the astragalus. The tendon most likely to give trouble is that of the flexor lon- gus haUucis. These fractures are prone to become compound; indeed they are not uncommonly compound from the first, the lower end of the tibia piercing the skin over the base of the malleolus and protruding on the inner side. Even when the fracture is not compound at first, it may become so secondarily, either from laceration of the skin before reduction, or from gan- grene or ulceration afterwards. Persistent cedema of the leg and stiffness in the ankle-joint from are also frequent complications. TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURE.—The first point is accurate reduction of the deformity; and the second, careful fixation of the part so that dislocation shall not recur. As a rule it is best to administer an anaesthetic ; no doubt reduction can be effected without it, but the pain and the contraction of the muscles render it difficult, and the diffi- culty is increased when there is also backward displacement of the foot, as the calf muscles tend to prevent the heel coming properly forward. When the muscles are fuUy relaxed, the knee is flexed and the upper part of the leg is fixed by an assistant, while the surgeon grasps the foot with one hand and the leg with the other and manipulates the foot into position. II, E E