AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES 3o6 tendency to separation is in the long axis of the bone, as in the patella and olecranon, a wire is to be preferred ; but when the tendency is to lateral deviation or over-riding of the fragments, as in a transverse fracture of the shaft of the long bones, steel plates fastened with steel screws are the best appHances to use. When a fragment of bone has been detached, as, for example, in a fracture of the internal condyle of the humerus, screwing or pegging is the best method of fixation; but in young children the bones are sometimes so soft that a screw will not hold, and in these cases a wire can sometimes be employed with advantage. The great advantages possessed by screwing and pegging over wiring in the majority of fractures is that, besides the increased rigidity the screws or pegs ensure, the manipulations necessary for their apphcation are Fig. 130.—Peters's Forceps. As shown in the diagram, the fragments can be held firmly in apposition while the bone is being drilled. These forceps are provided with an extra blade which can be made to replace the one shown uppermost in the figure. The one here represented is the larger, and is employed when screws are to be used; the smaller one is designed for use when wires are to be inserted. much simpler than when a wire is inserted; in the latter case the ends of the bone have to be freed much more widely from the soft parts. The details of the various operations for securing the fragments in the different fractures are given below. Wires should be inserted as foUows: In the case of an oblique fracture, two holes are bored side by side through each fragment; the corresponding holes in each fragment should come opposite each other, and are best made by one insertion of the drill through the entire bone, the fragments being held in exact apposition while they are driUed. A very useful pair of forceps for holding the fragments together during wiring or screwing is shown in Fig. 130. The end of a stout piece of wire is then passed through the corresponding holes in each fragment on one side, and then back through the corresponding holes on the other side (see Fig. 131). The loop of wire thus binds the fragments fairly firmly together. The ends are pulled tightly together, twisted, cut short, and hammered down so as to he flat on the bone.