NEURALGIA 135 maierial or plaster of Paris is fitted to the baclv and sides of the trunlc to ensure immobility. Unless the dressing becomes soaked with discharge, it need not be changed for ten days, when the stitches are taken out. NEURALGIA. Neuralgia is a condition charac- terised by lancinating pain along the course of a nerve witliout any coexist- ing pathological change in the nerve itself, although there may be changes in the corresponding ganglion. The affection often begins in connection with inflammation or the presence of a foreign body in the neighbourhood of the nerve, or from direct pressure upon some portion of it. The con- dition differs from neuritis, inasmuch as there is an inflammatory change in the structure of the nerve in the latter disease, whilst in neuralgia there are no pathological changes to be found in the nerve. The affec- tion is common in anfemic and de- bilitated subjects, and is frequently met with in those who are neurotic. It is also said to be due to malaria, over-exertion, sliock, exposure to cold, etc. The symptoms consist mainly of paroxysmal attacks of pain of great severity, which start from one point in the distribution of the nerve and extend along its course ; in the in- tervals there may be entire absence of pain. As a rule there is no pain on pressure over the course of the nerve except at the points where the nerve passes through an opening in fascia or bone. The pain often interferes with sleep, and in this way the patient's general nutrition is impaired, but there are no trophic changes. TREATMENT.—The treatment of neuralgia belongs, in tlie first instance, essentially to the physician; but when medical remedies fail, the surgeon is not infrequentlj^ called in. Medical Treatment. — The most important drugs are arsenic in doses, iron, quinine, strychnine, etc. At the same time any Fig. 49.—Method of Retaining the Lamin/E in Laminectomy. The thick black lines show (semi-diagramniatically) the in- cisions necessary to turn up the block of three laininaB. The incisions through the bones are made partly with a saw and partly with a chisel, while the ligaments are divided with probe-pointed scissors.