VARICOSE VEINS i6i varies at all it must be greatest at tlie foot, gradually decreasing as the knee is reached. The cheapness, the durability, and the readiness with which it can be adjusted to alterations in the size of the limb make this form of rubber bandage the most widely popular one that we have at our command It is especially suitable for hospital patients, and in private practice should always be employed where any great muscular exertion, such as walking, riding, shooting, or the like is being practised by the patient. At bedtime the bandage should be left off, and it is always well to sponge it over so as to remove all traces of perspiration, and then to hang it up to dry. Used in this way it causes a minimum amount of irritation. Elastic Bandages.—Some patients cannot tolerate Martin's bandage for any length of time, even over a stocking, and in that case an elastic webbing bandage will suit them better. This has the advantage that it is more porous and more comfortable to the limb, but it is less easy to apply owing to its greater rigidity, it quickly wears out, and will not stand much washing ; it requires frequent washing, because it readily becomes foul from the absorption of the sweat, and, therefore, it is a more expensive bandage than Martin's. Bandages of webbing known as crepe Velj)eau are very comfortable and useful in the milder cases. Elastic Stockings.—Woven elastic stockings, made for each individual patient, are largely worn, and are satisfactory. They do not give such good support as Martin's bandages, however; they seldom fit the limb accurately, and they are constantly made somewhat narrower above, so as to prevent them from slipping down, and thus they act practically as a garter. This is a very serious fault, and in ordering an elastic stocking stress must be laid on the point that the upper part shall not be constricted. The best form is that known as the spiral silk clastic stocking, which prac- tically consists of a long strip of elastic webbing encircling the limb spirally, the adjacent edges of the bandage being united. Elastic stock- ings have the advantage over the rubber bandage in being porous, and they are, on the whole, more comfortable. They are, however, more costly, less durable, and more difficult to keep clean. The elastic stocking should extend to the upper limit of the disease ■ when the saphena vein is affected it must extend right up to the groin. Many patients, however, refuse to wear them as high as the groin, for they find that they constantly slip down and are extremely uncomfortable. It is with the view of meeting the wants of these patients that obliteration of the saphena vein alone (Trendelenburg's operation) may be done with great advantage in very bad cases of varicose veins of the leg, where there is no chance of curing the disease by operation, so as to avoid the necessity for a thigh-piece, and at the same time to relieve the pressure on the veins below. II. M