i6 AFFECTIONS OF SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES discussion it now seems to be established that the best effects are produced by a concentrated white light and not by any attempt at the use of the ultra-violet light, since this latter is not capable of penetrating deeply enough. The two lamps which appear to be generally useful are the original, high voltage Finsen lamp, capable of treating four patients at once, and the newer Finsen-Reyn focussing lamp, which treats single patients. The latter needs special wiring, but can then be run from the ordinary constant house current, while the former entails a very costly in- stallation. The important points in securing success are, first, the efficient pressure with the quartz compressor, so that every part of the treated area is kept evenly anaemic (injection of adrenalin has also been used for this purpose) ; secondly, the continued application of the light after the apparent disappearance of the disease. Nine to twenty-five exposures are usually sufficient for a single area, but where there is thick scarring or the patient is very dark complexioned, a much greater number may be required, and only an area the size of a shilling piece can be treated at one exposure, which lasts from twenty minutes to an hour. The resulting scar is perfect, no destruction being caused, so that only the loss of tissue, already pro- duced by the disease, remains. Unfortunately relapse is frequent. ' B. By X-rays.—This method is particularly successful in those cases where ulceration is a marked feature, and which are therefore unsuitable for the light treatment at first, since one can hardly compress an ulcerated area. Under the use of the X-rays scars soften down, ulcers heal, and, in rare instances, actual nodules disappear. The method is, however, unreliable owing to the want of uniformity in the results. Moreover, there appears to be a distinct risk of inducing the growth of malignant disease in the exposed area. If used, the X-rays should be given in " pastille " doses, one such dose being given every four weeks. ' C. By Hot Air.—Hollander has recommended slight cauterisation by pumping air through a glowing porcelain mass on to the part. The destruction is not carried far enough to leave a scar, and the method, therefore, probably acts by bringing fresh blood to the parts. The pain produced is severe, but he has claimed excellent results which have not been very frequently corroborated. ' (3) By Drugs and Caustics.—These may be regarded either as pallia- tive or curative, and the former are largely resorted to as preliminary to treatment by other means. Brooke's ointment is that which is, perhaps, the most efficient of the palliative applications, and under it all septic complications rapidly subside, ulcers often heal, and, in some instances, a few nodules may disappear. It has the following formula :— B, Acid salicyl. gr. XX. aa 3ij. Ichthyol Paraffini mollis Ung. hydrarg. oleat, (5%) nv XX.