415 FRACTURES OF THE TIBIA ALONE that when the leg is in position upon the gauze, the ends can be folded over in front. When this has been done, salicylic wool is applied over tlie dressing in front, and the leg firmly bandaged to the splint. In arranging the padding the leg must be kept carefully in position and there must be no pressure on any bony point. The usual rule for ascertaining whether the limb is in proper position is to see that the inner condyle of the femur, the ball of the great toe and the internal malleolus are all in the same plane. The best plan, however, is to expose the other leg and to compare the two sides. If the fragments have been fastened together, the fixation apparatus ensures their being in proper position. Aflcr-ivealmcnt.—At hrst the dressing must be changed every day. This may be done with the least possible disturbance by having a second Maclntyre's splint at hand, arranged similarly to the hrst. The original dressing is then turned aside without disturbing the leg, the wounds are washed, and an assistant supports the thigh, while the surgeon gently lifts the leg, grasping it firmly at the ankle and above the fracture. The splint and dressing are then taken away, an assistant washes the back of the leg, the fresh splint is placed in position, the leg laid down on it, and the dressing arranged as before. It is only during the first ten days that frequent dressings are necessary ; after that, it will suffice to turn aside the dressing, pack in a little gauze along the side of the leg, and then apply a fresh piece of dressing in front, so that for several days the back of the leg need not be disturbed, and no change of splint is necessary. As soon as healing has occurred, the leg may be placed in a Croft's splint and treated as a simple fracture. As only the tibia is fractured and the fibula remains intact, there is not much danger of unduly disturbing the fracture when the limb is transferred from one splint to another. Should it be impossible, however, to carry this out without risk, the interrupted plaster splint (see Fig. 127) should be employed instead. TREATMENT OF UNUNITED FRACTURE—Ununited fracture is chiefiy due to nnperlect fixation of the loot, and if prolonged rest in a plaster of Paris casing fails to secure union, operation becomes necessary. Bier's bandage may also be employed; it should be kept on for two periods of two hours every day (see Vol. I. p. 13). When the fracture is transverse, it may suffice to remove the fibrous tissue between the ends of the bone and to refresh the latter; union will occur even though there be an interval between the fragments, pro- vided that no soft parts are interposed. In one case of non-union in which the interval between the fragments, after removal of the intervening fibrous tissue, was not more than a quarter of an inch, we chiselled off a Ihin shaving of the tibia above the seat of fracture and hammered it firmly between the two fragments ; perfect union resulted. If the interval be considerable, however, the fibula must also be exposed and enough of it removed to allow the two ends of the tibia to come together. The tibia is then united by means of bone-plates (see p. 307). The former