34 AFFECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS further up the limb and, when introduced as far up as possible, a fresh incision is made over its point and the silk is pulled through in a similar manner from the second to the third incision, and so on until the end of the silk is buried in normal subcutaneous tissue above the swollen part. The silk should not be allowed to touch the skin at any point in its passage from one incision to the other, and the end lying in the first or most distal incision should be wrapped up in a piece of sterile wet gauze until it is buried in its turn beneath the adjacent skin. All the small incisions are closed by sutures. Three, four, or more silk threads or sets of threads, if preferred, may be introduced in a similar way and parallel to one another through separate series of incisions/i Careful measurements of the circumference of the limb should be taken before and after the operation, to determine how much shrinkage takes place subsequently. The precise value of this operation and its ultimate place in Surgery cannot be definitely determined at the moment. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Under this term may be included acute and chronic lymphangitis due to various causes, and elephantiasis. ACUTE LYMPHANGITIS. This is practically always a septic disease, and represents the reaction of the walls of the lymphatic vessels to contact with irritants absorbed by them from some seat of primary infection. Generally the affection is due to the organisms themselves ; sometimes, however inflammation may arise from the irritating products of the organ- isms alone. Acute septic lymphangitis is never a primary disease ; it is always secondary to some focus of infection, which may be either an external wound, or some inflammatory condition such as a boil. Among external wounds, the most serious are those inflicted during post mortem examinations, especially of septicsemic cases ; here the infection is often of extreme virulence, and the condition soon passes beyond a mere lymphangitis. Conditions of ill-health, such as alcohohsm, starvation, diabetes, and so forth, especially predispose to the more severe forms of lymphangitis. In acute lymphangitis the walls of the vessels become inflamed and thickened, and inflammation also occurs in the tissues around, giving rise to the condition known as peri-lymphangitis. When suppuration takes place, the pus is usually present outside the vessels as well as within them; this suppuration is localised and generally occurs at intervals along 1 See Sampson Handley, Lancet; Jan. 2, 1909, and Brit. Med. Journ., April 9 and 16^ 1910.