TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS 105 made to cut a channel out of the bone as wide as the original groove, but deep enough to make it difficult for the tendon to slip out when it has once been replaced. The tendon is then laid into this groove, any soft fascial tissue present stitched over it to form a sheath, the incision closed and the foot put up flexed and inverted as in the previous case. Passive motion should be begun quite early, as otherwise the tendon is likely to become adherent to the bone ; certainly not more than a week should be allowed to elapse before active and passive motions are commenced, and they should be carried out daily for about three or four weeks after the operation, the splint being continued in the intervals. At the end of that time the splint is left off, and the patient encouraged to move the foot often and to walk about a little, keeping the foot carefully inverted while he does so. Passive motion is required for about eight weeks after the operation. When a longer period has elapsed since the injury, it may be impossible to replace the tendon in the groove, on account of the shortening of the muscle. In these difficult cases the following procedure has been adopted successfully. The groove in the bone is cleared and deepened, as described above. The tendon is divided very obliquely, and the two ends are brought over the outer malleolus into the groove prepared for them and stitched together. If the incision in the tendon be sufficiently oblique, the two ends are not actually separated as they lie in the groove, but overlap slightly. These over- lapping cuds are fastened together by fine lateral catgut sutures (see Fig. 35). Lengthening of the tendon may also be carried out in another manner, which is often more suitable than the method by oblique section. The tendon is split vertically in the middle line for a distarce rather more than half an inch longer than the interval required. At each end of the vertical incision a transverse cut is made in opposite directions (see Fig 36), dividing half the tendon across. This gives a 1-shaped incision through the tendon, the two ends of which are then separated sufficiently, and the overlapping parts fastened together by lateral catgut sutures. The after-treatment is similar to that just described. When no operation is thought desirable, or when the patient will not consent to one, the surgeon must content himself with using apparatus. The tendon is readily replaced in the earlv stage by flexing and everting Fig, 35 Lengthening a Tendon BY Obliqite Division.