294 AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES should be kept perfectly quiet so as to avoid the risk of detachment of portions of the clot. The patient should be confined to the horizontal position for a fortnight after the spread of the thrombus has ceased. Gangrene.—This complication may occur from damage to the main vessels at the time of the injury, or it may result later from the injudicious application of splints or bandages. Some patients are particularly in- sensitive to pain, and, if they have any, look upon it as a necessary consequence of the injury. Many cases have occurred where, after a fracture has been put up apparently satisfactorily, oedema and gangrene have occurred subsequently without the patient complaining of pain until too late to obviate the mischief. The gangrene will be of the moist variety and its treatment is detailed elsewhere (see Vol. I. Chap. IV.). When the circulation is evidently imperfect, the limb should be disinfected immediately after the occurrence of the injury, a large dressing apj)lied, and the limb raised on pillows. If, in spite of this, it be evident that gangrene will occur, amputation should be performed at, or above the seat of injury to the vessels, which will be at the seat of fracture. There is no object in waiting, for in the course of two or three days it will be clear whether recovery will result. Volkmann's Contracture or 'Iscli£emic Paralysis.'— Volkmann was the first to describe a contracted condition of the flexors of the hand and wrist, supervening not uncommonly after fractures of the radius and ulna or the lower end of the humerus. He gave it the name of ' ischsemic paralysis,' on the assumption that the condition was due to death of the muscle elements consequent upon prolonged deprivation of blood as the result of splint pressure. It is not certain, however, that this is really the cause of the affection, and, therefore, it is perhaps better to term it ' Volkmann's contracture,' until we know more about its pathology. Etiology.—The condition is certainly most often met with in connection with fractures of the forearm, but it is not confined to this region. It is frequently associated with undue pressure from tight splints or bandages, and there are often pressure sores on the front and outer aspects of the. forearm ; sometimes there is also definite pressure paralysis of the nerves of the forearm, such as the median, ulnar, or posterior interosseous. Cases are recorded, however, in which this condition of contracture has followed severe contusion of the muscles of the forearm without any fracture or external wound, in which no splints have been used and in which no sores or bullae have developed during the course of the case. The great majority of cases occur in the forearm, but we have seen at least two cases in the lower extremity, following the use of a tight plaster casing for suspected joint disease. It is unlikely that pure ' ischaemia ' or privation of blood-supply to the muscles can produce the affection unaided, and the condition is probably due to a myositis set up by the injury or the splint pressure, or by both combined, A similar condition