X INTRODUCTION. Society ivitliin the last five years, as well as that its adherents are limited to the eight hundred members which now constitute that organization. This impression, however, is most erroneous; since, ns remarked by a writer, in a lengthened notice of Vegetarianism in the Medico-Chirurgical Review, this fundamental question of diet “ is not now raised for the first time, but has been brought again and again under consideration during every period of the world’s history,” though, “ by the zeal and assiduity of its present advocates, it has been made to assume an importance, among certain sections of our community, which it never before presented.” * We take the oppor- tunity here to remark, that the practice of the system, as well, is not by any means limited to the members of the present Vegetarian organization, large numbers of adherents having arisen within the last few years, who have no immediate connection with the Vegetarian Society; and we shall have occasion subsequently to call attention to the fact, that large masses of the inhabitants of the earth, amounting from two-thirds to three-fourths of the people of the world, have, in all periods of time, carried out this practice of diet. The principle of the system, indeed, has ever been identified with the primeval institutions of creation, and is met with surprise only in coimtrics where the mixed diet practice is most prevalent; this being no doubt due to want of information, or to want of recollection of what con- stituted the principal features of diet in the earliest history of the world, in which sacred and profane authority concur in showing that man derived his food from the products of the vegetable kingdom, and that the consumption of the flesh of animals as food only obtained after he had fallen from the purity of his early history, and become identified with the violence that subsequently “filled the earth.” In the Greek and Latin authors, wo have frequent allusions to the period of history to which we refer, when man lived in a state of innocence and happiness. Thus, Ovid, after the cruelties inflicted upon animals in order to appropriate their flesh as food have been described, obseiwes:— “ Not so the golden age, who ted on fruit. Nor durst with bloody meals their mouths pollute.” t * No. xii. p. 100. t metamorphoses, book 16. 1.137.’ Dryden’s Translation.