151 BREAD AND TEA CAKES. bv rubbing it well when just warm, with a little butter in a cloth ; w'hen the batter is sufficieutly risen, place the girdle over a clear, moderate fire; nearly fill a common-sized tea-cup with the batter, taken from the top (for it must not be stirred up), and pour it on the plate, and as soon as it appears to set, turn it over immediately with a tin slice, the size of a large crumpet; when lightly browned, tiu-n it again on the coolest part of the baking plate; let it remain a short time; when turned the first time, pour another on, and continue till the batter is finished. As the crumpets are baked, lay tliem on a clean cloth, covering them lightly with another cloth, but do not lay one upon another till nearly cold. Either toast them lightly, or lay them on a cake tin, and cover them with a clean wet cloth; set them in the oven, and when hot through, butter them in the usual way. No. 519.—Crumpets. Two pounds of flour ; half a pint of new milk; one pint of water; one egg, and half an ounce of baking-powder. Rub the powder very fine, and mix it well with the flour and a little salt; add the egg, well beaten, the milk, and the water; beat the batter a very little, and bake immediately, as in receipt No. 518. No. 520.—Muffins. Three pounds of the finest flour; one pint and a half of wann milk and water, and one ounce of German yeast. Dissolve the yeast in the usual way, and mix it with part of the milk and water. Make a hole in the flour, and strain into it the yeast, adding the remainder of the milk and water; mix well, and beat it quarter of an hour; cover, and set it in a rather warm place to rise; when well risen, cut it into pieces a little larger than an egg; roll them on the board with the hand, like balls; spread a cloth on a tray, dredgmg it well with flour; set it before the fire, and lay the balls on the tray as they arc rolled, keeping them, and also the dough, closely covered with clean flannel. When all the dough is made into balls, the first which was laid on the tray will be ready for baking, and will spread out into the form of a muffin; lay each one