INTRODUCTION. t Gassendi’s Works, vol. i., p. 20. 31V Hence the doctrines of morality and phOosopliy are directed to no other object than to recal mankind to the paths of natm'e, which they have abandoned.” f Lord Monboddo says:—“Though I think that man has, from nature, the capacity of living either by prey or upon the fruits of the earth, it appears to me that, by nature, and in his original state, he is a frugivorous animal; and that he only becomes an animal of prey by acquired habit.” To the above might be added the evidence of M. Daubenton, with that of Sir Eveeaed Home, Eat, Belb, and others, all leading to the same conclusion. Notwithstanding the force of the above conclusions, showing that the natural food of man is derived from the vegetable kingdom, and not from the flesh of animals, it may be said, that by acquired habit man has become a consumer of flesh. We are at once free to admit, that there is great power in the principle of adaptability, en- abling man to subsist on various foods, and in varied circumstances, as an essential principle for the preservation of the race of man in his varied wanderings. But though this is fully acknowledged, we are here contending, not for what man has the power to do, but for what constitutes the natm^al food of man, between which and every law of his physical constitution (in his case as in that of all other animals), the benevolence of the Creator will have established complete adaptation. Man, unquestionably, as is commonly seen, can wander both in morals and physical habits from the high principles of his being; but what we here contend for, is, that all these departm’es are to his dis- advantage, and that the greatest happiness of existence can alone be secured in the most complete obedience to the natural laws of his being. We have next to address ourselves to an argument in connection with the Vegetarian system, in opposition to which much erroneous impression exists. It is generally taken for granted, that all vege- table products including both farinaceous food and the articles com- monly designated vegetables, are insufficient to supply the complete nutrition of the body. It is only within the last fifteen years, that correct impressions as to what constitutes the true nutritive qualities of food have been arrived at. In organic chemistry, however, as originating in the