XXll INTRODUCTION. tcm; but since the penny stamp was introduced, as a mighty lever to the progress of truth and civilization, producing its millions of letter-writers, the goose cjuill became insufficient, and the commercial demand for a more suitable instrument has resulted in the millions of metal pens. In reply to the agriculturist, as to whence the supply of manure for farming could be derived, wore the number of cattle essentially reduced, wo have simply to call attention to the fact, that the manure of the farm yard has no magical properties in it which are not con- tained in the food upon which the cattle have fed, and is only best for the production of food for cattle ; and if it be deshed to produce food for man, this can be abundantly secured by the ploughing in of gi’cen crops, and the abimdant supplies of the richest of all manure, to be obtained in tbo waste and sewerage of our cities. It is one of the most interesting aspects of the improvement of agriculture, to con- sider that these som’ces of manure now principally lost, will ultimately be brought into use; and Liebig, hi a recent work, points thus hope- fully to the immense mass of fossil phosphates, which may be dug in various parts of om' country, promising, when brought to bear, as cer- tainly to realize the success of agriculture in the future, as the im- mense beds of coal in certain parts of England have long been, and will continue to bo the source of the manufacturing wealth of such districts. Again, to the common inquiry, “ what are animals made for, if not to be eaten P” we quote a few remarks by the ialcnted author of Fruits and Farinacea the Proper Food of Man,* (a work most complete of its kind, and presenting abundance of argument and illustration upon nearly every feature of diet likely to engage the attention,) meeting also the popular inquiry upon this subject in the words of one of our most distinguished poets. “ ‘ Why were sheep, oxen, etc., created if not for the use of man ? ’ I might briefly reply, that they were brought into existence by the same power and for a similar purpose, as all other animals; many of which man never knew, and probably never will know; and many others of which are absolutely injurious and destructive to him. At no time, perhaps, are the pride and imbecUity of man more apparent, than when he imagines all things, animate and inanimate, to have been created solely for his pleasure. There exist millions of suns with Page 96. Published by Pitman, 20, Paternoster Eow.