xvm INTRODUCTION. interesting result that they contain the same organic elements, united in the same proportion by weight; and, what is still more remarkable, that they ai*o identical in composition with the chief constituents of blood, animal fihrine, and albumen. They all three dissolve in con- centrated muriatic acid with the some deep purple colour, and even in then’ physical characters, animal fihrine and albumen, arc in no respect different from vegetable fibrine and albumen. “ Vegotable fibrine and animal fibrine, vegetable albumen and ani- mal albumen, hardly differ, even in form; if these principles be want- ing in the food, the nutrition of the animal is arrested; and when they are present, the graminivorous animal obtains in its food the very same principles on the presence of which the nutrition of the carnivora entirely depends.” Lastly, we quote :—“ Vegetables produce in their organism the blood of all animals, for the carnivora in consuming the blood and flesh of the graminivora, consume, strictly speaking, only the vege- table principles which have served for the nutrition of the latter.” * Nothing could be more conclusive on the question at issue, than the statements here presented as the imbiased decisions of chemical research; from which it is seen, that far from the nutriment found in the flesh of animals being pecuhar, and superior to that to be obtained from vegetable products, it is merely vegetable nutriment—the proxi- mate principles of vegetables, originating in the vegetable kingdom alone, whence they are transferred to the flesh of animals; and which, without the processes of feeding animals for their flesh, could bo derived simply and directly from the products of the soil. From a consideration of the above arguments, we arrive at some most important conclusions of a social and political nature. With the facts of the composition of food before us, and the knowledge that the nutriment to be derived from the flesh of animals is only vegetable nutriment taken in a secondary way, we can readily see that the ordinary impression of the necessity of mixing the flesh of animals with food to heighten its nutritive quahties, and, in popular phrase, “ make it go fm’ther,” is altogether fallacious. We find, for instance, in appealing to the facts of the composition of food, that the economic question of “ what does it cost to produce 100 lb weight of the blood of the body from the various articles of food in ordinary consump- Animal Chemistry, pp. 47 and 18.