XXXV INTRODUCTION. vessels. They are stout and robust men, of great muscular strength; and carry at one load, upon a pad fitted to their backs, from foim hundred to eight hundred pounds.” * Sir Francis Head informs us, that the South American miners that carry such immense loads, are fed on fruit, grain and pulse. “ It is usual” says he “ for the copper miners of central Chili to carry loads of ore of 200 lb weight up eighty perpendicular yards twelve times a day. Wlien they reach the mouth of the pit they are in a state of apparent fearful exhaustion, covered with perspiration, their chests heaving, yet after briefly resting they descend again. Their diet is entirely vegetable: breakfast consists of sixteen figs and two small loaves of bread; dinner, boiled beans; supper, roasted wheat grain. They scarcely ever taste meat; yet on this simple diet they perform a labour that would almost kill many men.” f To identify the advantage of simplicity of diet in relation to health and strength in our own coimtry, we find Smith, in his Wealth of Nations, says, that the men that did the hardest work in his time, as chairmen, porters, and coal-heavers, were most of them from the Irish peasantry; and that those who had continued their Vegetable diet, were the strongest men in the British dominions. Eeferring also to the statistics which have been brought to bear upon the rela- tive strength of the English, Irish, and Scotch, imder a class of ex- periments instituted and conducted by Dr. Forbes, of Edinburgh, within a few years, we find that numbers of students were submitted to experiments in relation to average height, weight, and strength, the latter test being that of lifting weights, which resulted in the following statistics; the ages of the individuals compai’ed being about twenty-five. J English Scotch Irish Height. Weight. 68 inches ... 116 lb 69 „ ... 152 „ 70 ,, ... 156 ,, Strength. 403 lb 423 „ 432 „ We thus see, that as far as these experiments are instructive, they present a reproof to the prevailing impression in our country, and show that in the instances under comparison, at least, in which we * Graham’s Lectures on the Science of Human Life, p. 182. t See Fruits and Farinacea the Proper Food of Man, p. 172. t Chambers’ Information for the People, pp. 68, 69, and 61.