xlii INTKOnUCTION. timate relation with the greatest happiness of the human consti- tution ; but claiming thus much for it, it will be seen that it inrolves important consequences to the physical and moral peace of the world. We fear it is vain to regard mankind as the sole object for the exer- cise of the principles of peace, and to say that when these prevail in relation to him, imity and harmony of purpose will characterise the conduct of men; whilst the fact is overlooked, that the conduct of mankind is powerfully influenced for evil, by the cruelties and mis- taken practices carried out towards the brute creation. We contend, then, for our system, as essential not only to the harmonious relations of man’s nature necessary to secure happiness, but also to his har- monious relation to the external world intended to surround him; and that the degree in which man practically acknowledges the impor- tance of these and other kindred principles, will be that in which the peace and harmony of the world can exist. It is therefore no objec- tion to this, that the world seems disorganized and contentious to the last degree, ever involving itself in acts the very opposite to those we would advocate as incident to the fairer and better history of man living in full accordance with the laws of his being. The dis- couragement of Imowing the world as it is, necessarily ever detracts much from the philanthrophic effort to make it what it ought to be ; but though our views have to be judged of in the disadvantage of erroneous practice, (requiring, if fully apprehended, to be examined with clearer perceptions than those influenced bj’ the system against which we arc contending,) our strongest hopes are built upon the con- victions which the practice of our principles will necessarily produce, and to this practice we believe facts such as we have stated, wiE day by day lead the enlightened and reflective of all classes. Our system, then, is the result of no new doctrine, but of princi- ples established in human natm'c, and of a practice as old as the history of man. Vegetarianism in its mission, thus emphatically protests against the slaughter of animals for the purpose of human subsistence, and in putting the prevailing practices of Society upon their trial, it invites the attention of the world to the principles of benevolence in which it is based. Our duty is thus performed; and admitting the defects of tins ex- position of the Vegetarian system, we would earnestly commend the system itself to the attention of our readers. We again call attention to the excellent work, already referred to, by Mr. Smith, as well ns