form of Vegetarian diet, we refer to page Ivi. VEGETARIAN PRACTICE. In offering a few remarks in relation to the Vegetarian practice, it will be important to consider what are the present habits and circum- stances of our readers as to dietary an-angements, in order to enable them to adapt the practice as nearly as possible thereto. We wish our observations to be regarded as the suggestions of social friendship, rather than as formal and systematic instructions; but as we cannot in this instance enter into all the particular requirements of our friends, we will endeavour to describe the principal varieties of cir- cumstance and condition, and it will be for those who are desirous of adopting the practice to recognize in the descriptions given, that which most accords with their own particular case. Various as are the circumstances of domestic life, they may, as a general rule, be found described in the following classes :— I. Those who seek to adopt the most simple and natural food for the promotion of health and economy, and for their physical, intellectual and moral discipline, and who subsist on a diet entkely composed of fruits, farinacea, and vegetables. Suggestions adapted for persons of this class will be found on page xlvi. II. Vegetarians having similar objects in view to those above described, but who still prefer to partake of milk, eggs, etc. And also persons hitherto accustomed to a diet composed principally of farinaceous food, vegetables, and fruit, with some portion of flesh, but who desire to abandon the latter, and to supersede it with some- thing consistent with domestic economy, good taste, and humane feel- ing. Information adapted for this class will be found on page 1. III. Those who are accustomed to more elaborate preparations, and who require a greater variety of rich and savomy dishes will find remarks adapted to their requirements on page lii. IV. The working classes and others to whom economy is an im- portant consideration, but who do not wish to adopt the simplest