XX INTROnUCTION. have been driven away, and the land once used to raise food for man, has been converted to grass lauds for the feeding of sheep and cattle. It is obvious also, that if these facts were generally known in our country, much of the dissatisfaction of the less favoured and poorer classes of the community (who look with murmuring, from their own means of subsistence to the resources of the higher classes, in their abundant provision of flesh as food) would at once be extinguished ; because it would be readily seen, that Providence has been much more benevolent in securing the true necessaries of life, than men, in their want of knowledge, have supposed. It is an interesting feature of the study of these facts, to observe, that as the great essentials of existence are placed within the reach of man,—air, water, light,—so also are all the primary and essential properties of food kept within the means of the different classes of mankind. The higher classes may revel in luxury, as the result of factitious tastes and vicious cus- toms ; but, after all, in reality they owe their existence to the simple proximate principles of vegetable food, alike within the reach of the honest labourer who “ earns his bread by the sweat of his brow.” We pass now to another important argument in connection with the system under notice, the truths of which have been opposed by a long line of practical teaching from the medical profession. It has been stated from time immemorial, that the flesh of animals is more digestible than food derived from the vegetable kingdom. We are happy in bringing to bear indisputable facts in our treatment of this question, and facts derived from the most emphatic source of truth- ful declaration upon the subject of the digestion of food, hitherto known to have occurred in the world. We allude to the case of Alexis St. Maetix, a healthful young man, who, about thirty years ago, received a gun-shot wound in his side, which perforated his stomach. Dr. Beaumont, of the United States, ministered carefully to the neces- sities of this case; and, aided by the originally strong and healthful constitution of his patient, he was enabled to restore him to complete health and vigour, but with one singular circumstance in connection with the case, that the perforation in the stomach never entirely healed up, but was merely closed by an extension of the coats or inner lining. Here then was precisely the case so interesting to the practical phy- siologist in his research as to the digestibility of food, and Dr. Beau- mont submitted this young man to numerous experiments, during a series of years, in testing the different degrees of digestibility of the