INTRODUCTIOX. XI And subsequently, one of our own poets, in reference to tbc same period, speaking of herbs, says:— “ But who their virtues can declare P who pierce. With vision pure, into their secret stores Of health, and life, and joy ? the food of man, WTiile yet he liv'd in innocence, and told A length of golden years; unflesh’d in blood, A stranger to the savage arts of life. Death, rapine, earnage, surfeit, and disease; The lord, and not the tyrant, of the world.” * We are not surprised, however, that the Vegetarian system, when first presented to the attention of a flesh-consuming community, should be considered imworthy of serious attention; though the disad- vantage of this oan but be momentary, with all who remember the his- tory of opinion in all time, and that the greatest and most important truths, whether in relation to mind or matter, have invariably had to pass through an ordeal, thus raised by the unreasoning adherents to the practices and habits of thought most prevalent at the time. Our views may well, thus, support a little sm-prise or merriment in the uninformed; and the more so, since there are few eases where atten- tion is brought to bear upon the system, in which impressions in its favour are not produced. It is singular, though fortunate for the treatment of this question, that some of the strongest arguments in relation to external evidence, are dedueed in support of our system from the impartial examination of facts supposed to constitute some of the strongest popular objections, and such as are in the fu-st instance commonly directed against it. We purposed that oim exposition of the system should, as much as possible, be shaped by the nature of the objeetions raised in the minds of individuals in their opposition to the practice of Vegetarianism; and thus we shall here address ourselves to several of the strong points which have hitherto upheld the practice of consuming the flesh of animals as food. The anatomical and physiological structure of the human frame, is usually considered to present a powerful argument in support of a mixed diet, in relation to the character of the teeth and intestinal canal. This supposed scientific reason for the consumption of flesh, is • Thomson’s Spring, 1. 233.