134 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. No. 463.—Lemon Jei.ly. Four fine lemons; half a pound of white sugar; two ounces of isinglass, and the whites of five eggs. Grate the yellow rinds of the lemons into a pint and a half of water, stirring in the sugar till quite dissolved; then add the juice of the lemons; let it remain an hour, and then strain it; soak the isinglass in half a pint of cold water twenty minutes; then put it in a pint of boiling water, stirring it till perfectly dissolved ; strain, and put it in a pan with the water into which the lemons were grated, adding the whites of eggs, well beaten; tie a small piece of turmeric in muslin, and lay it in a spoonful of water till wet; then squeeze a very little into the jelly to give it the colour of lemon, but not too yellow; boil it five minutes, without stirring; when taken off the fire, skim it, and run it through a jelly-bag. No. 464.—Orange Jelly. Four Seville oranges; two sweet oranges; three lemons; two ounces of isinglass, and three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Kub some of the sugar on the rinds of the oranges and lemons; then squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemons upon the sugar; dis- solve it in a pint of water, and boil it to a clear syrup. Boil the is- inglass in a pint of water till dissolved; strain through a fine strainer, and stir tUl cool; put it to the syrup ; pass it tlu-ough a jelly-bag, and put it into a mould. No. 465.—Orange Jelly. One ounce and a half of isinglass; the juice of three Seville oranges; three sweet oranges; one lemon; the grated rinds of one Seville orange, and of one lemon; half a pound of sugar, and half a pint of lemonade. Put half a pint of cold water to the isinglass; let it remain twenty minutes; put it in a pan with another half pint of boiling water, stir- ring it till dissolved; then strain it, and add the sugar, the grated riuds of the lemon and the Seville orange, the lemonade, and juice of the oranges and lemon; boil aU together five minutes, and then strain it through muslin.