XXIV INTRODUCTION. nature, and that derived from the flesh of animals. We at once admit that the sensations, the result of partaking of food com- posed wholly or in part of flesh, are very different: but this arises from the stimulating and febrile aetion of flesh upon the stomach, and may be due, and most probably is, to causes involved in the concen- trated charaeter of flesh as compared to its bulk, or to the absence of the alkaline characteristics of such food, and thus to its general abnormal effects upon the system. To whatever cause, however, the [stimu- lation and febrile effects of flesh are due, they certainly exist, and account for the difference in sensation produced by such food as compared with the bland and calm effects resulting from the diges- tion of farinaceous and vegetable products. Flesh may be popularly considered the brandy of diet, as communicating to the system a degree of that stimulation which answers, in kind, to the stimulus of alcohol, and actually produces on the coats of the stomach the height- tened febrile action which Dr. Beaumont observed, and which is alto- gether apart from its nutritive or normal heat-forming principles, whilst the meal of farinaceous food (nearly altogether heat-forming in its principles) was digested leaving the coats of the stomach cool and of their natural colour. It is to the above-mentioned febrile effects of flesh, that the heightened pulse, and degree of more restless habit consequent upon partaking of flesh as food is due. Unquestionably, the ehanges of the system occur in another way on the mixed than on the Vegetarian diet, and with less favourable and healthful action, as weU ns less of endurance, whether physical or mental, the body arriving sooner at matm’ity, and sooner at old age and decay, than would nccessaril3' bo the result in avoiding these soiu’ccs of stimulation to which we have called attention. We feel assured that our views upon this sub- jeet but require some opportunities of practical observation on the part of the medical profession, at once to be established for their guidance. Another argument, though less general and comprehensive in its character, seems natiually to belong to this portion of the treatment of our subject, arising as it does from the consumption of immense quantities of butcher’s meat procured from the bodies of animals in nearly all states of disease, including measles, dropsy, liver complaint, and the more fatal kinds of contagious disorders such as consumption, small pox, and diarrhoea. It is within the last few years only, that special attention has been called to this subject, and that the facts