VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 144 Mix the salt with the flour, previously dried; then put in the warm milk, and half a pint of warm water ivitli the yeast; cover with a eloth, and set it before the fire; ivhen risen, add the potatoes, well dried and mashed, and when well mixed, set it in a warm place to rise, and hake it in a tin, in a moderately hot oven. No. 497.—Scalded Bread. To about one third of the quantity of coarse brown flour intended to be used, stir in as much boiling water as will make it a rather stiff paste. Prepare the German yeast as before, allowing one ounce to four pounds of flour; set it to rise in sponge with a little lukewarm water; when well risen, and the scalded flour is become cold, mix, aud knead well together, adding the usual quantity of salt, aud water, as required; let it rise well; put it in a tin; bake in a quick oven till half done; then carefully remove it to the upper part of the oven; let it remain several hours, having the oven moderately cool the latter part of the time; when well baked, fold it in a clean wet cloth, and put it in the cellar a day or two, before it is cut. No. 498.—Bread with Potatoes. Twelve pounds of coarse or fine flour; four pounds of boiled potatoes; one ounce and a hiilf of salt, and tliree ounces of German yeast. When the potatoes have been boiled aud mashed, rub them through a wire sieve into the flour, adding the salt; when well mixed, put in the yeast, with warm water as required; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire to rise in sponge; then knead it well; let it remain till it has risen again, and bake in the usual way. No. 499.—Bread with a mixture of Rice. Six pounds of flour; one pound of rice; one ounce and a half of German yeast, and one ounce of salt. Boil the rice in two quai-ts of water till soft; drain the water from it; mash, and mix the rice with the flour, adding the salt, and the yeast prepared as usual; mix with the water in which the rice was boiled, adding as much luke-warm water as required, aud when risen, bake the bread in the usual way.