199 SYRUPS, ETC. vessel with half a pound of raisins, cut in pieces, and the rind of a lemon, pared very thin ; pour upon it four quarts of boiling water ; cover it, and let it remain till the following day; then pour off the clear liquor, very carefully, and strain it through a lawn sieve. Put one pound and a half of broken loaf sugar into a pan with the juice of two lemons and two oranges, strained through muslin, and half a pint of the ginger liquor; stir till the sugar is dissolved; then set it on the fire; when it has boiled up a few times, allow it to boil slowly till clear, skimming it well; then add the remainder of the ginger- liquor, and boil it ten minutes; strain through muslin, and when cold, bottle it. No.—678.—Lemon Sherbet. Grate the rind of sis large lemons; boil it in six quarts of water with a little bruised ginger, and three pounds of white sugar, quarter of an hour; when cold, add the lemon-juice; strain it through muslin, and bottle it. It will then be ready for use. No. 679.—Orange and Lemon Sherbet. To nine Seville oranges, take three lemons; grate off the yellow rinds into a gallon of water; boil three pounds of broken loaf sugar with three pints of water, and a very little white of egg to clear it; then add to it the juice of the fruit, strained; when clear, pour it into a bowl, stirring it frequently till cold; then mix it with the water; strain through muslin, and bottle it. No. 680.—Raspberry and Currant Sherbet. To two quarts of currant and raspberry juice, when strained, add seven pounds of broken loaf sugar, and six quarts of cold water; when the sugar is dissolved, cover, and let it remain till the following day ; then clear it off into a large stone jar with quarter of an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in half a pint of water; close the jar, so as to exclude the air, and keep it in a cool place. In three weeks, clear it off into bottles, and it wlU then be ready for use. No. 681.—Raspberry Acid. Dissolve two ounces of tartaric acid in a quart of water ; pour it