XXXI INTKODUOTION. also of the laws mid institutions of the Creator, as day by day pro- mulgated in the history of the world. We have endeavom’ed to show that our system, so far, is in aecordance with these, and that thus, science, as the true interpreter of facts, must necessarily be the handmaid of higher and more important truths, there being ever, where the frailty and error of man are excluded, perfect accordance between the revealed truth of God and his spoken voice in the facts of creation. We would contend, therefore, for the harmony we believe there exists in both the word and the works of the Creator, and we see no reason whatever, but the contrai-y, for the objections brought against the system, that Scripture nullifies by its opposition the reasoning wliich is in general readily acknowledged in relation to our external arguments. In confirmation of the correctness of our views, we see that the appointed diet of man is that for which we contend, and that the flesh of animals was never partaken of till man fell from the beauty and order of his earliest state. Since then, we are free to admit (as the Scriptures show,) that the consumption of flesh has more or less prevailed in the various phases of the world’s history; but this, we would say, respectfully though firmly, has always been to the disadvantage of man and if sanction be sought from the practice of the Jews, we contend that this reasoning is most fallacious, as many things were obviously tolerated in their wander- ings and departures from the sound principles by which they refused to be ruled, which we learn in the subsequent history of Scripture, were by permission, and in relation to their fallen condition.* To receive, then, the authority and sanction of particular passages of Scripture history for the consumption of the flesh of animals as food, without regard to the general principles of Scripture, is, in our estimation, to betray Scripture, just as it has too commonly been betrayed, and made to sanction war, capital punishment, slavery, intemperance, and even the most degrading social anomalies, authority for all these being sought in the various passages of the fallen state of man. We hold, then, by the promulgation of the appointed food of man, as simply and beautifully presented in the words:— “ Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall bo for meat.” f And the more earnestly Matt. lir. 8. t Gou. i. 29.