VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 140 No. 503.—Currant Bread yvithout Sugar. One pound and a half of flour; si.x ounces of butter; one pint of new milk ; half an ounce of German yeast; four eggs; one pound of currants; one ounce of candied lemon, and half a nutmeg. Mi.\ the yeast with half a pint of warm milk, and when it has settled, strain it into the flour, adding the butter, melted in the remainder of the milk, and set it to rise; when sufficiently risen, add the currants, candied lemon, the nutmeg, grated, and the eggs, well beaten; mi.x all well together; put it in a buttered tin, or deep dish; let it rise twenty minutes, and bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 504.—Christmas Currant Loaf. Pour pounds of flour ; half a pound of butter; one pound of sugar; one pound of Sultana raisins ; one ponnd of enrrants; half an ounce of baking-powder; one pint and a half of new milk; four eggs; the grated rind of two lemons ; two ounces of candied lemon or orange ; half an ounce of German yeast; mace, and cinnamon. Rub the baking-powder into the flour with half an ounce of salt; then rub in the butter ; prepare the German yeast, adding to it the milk, just warm; strain it into the middle of the flour, stirring it a little; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; when well risen, mbi up all the ingredients together, beating well the eggs, and rolling the sugar; cut the candied orange in thin slices, and add the rind of the lemons, the mace, and cinnamon, powdered; set it again to rise for an hour, and bake in tins or earthenware baking pans, warmed and buttered, in a moderately hot oven. No. 505.—Brentford Roles. Two pounds of flour; two eggs ; two ounces of butter; two ounces of sugar; one pint of new milk, and half an ounce of German yeast. Rub the butter in the floiu’, adding a little salt, and the sugar, finely powdered; put in the warm milk with the yeast, then the eggs, well beaten, and mix the whole into a light dough; cover with a cloth, aud set it before the fire ; when sufficiently risen, make it into twelve rolls; set them to rise, and bake in a quick oven.