103 PIES AND TARTS. No. 354.—Tartlets. These are tarts without covers, made in flat dishes. Cover the dish with puff paste; tlicn put a thin strip of paste round the edge of the dish, and fill the centre with rasphcri7 jam, or any other preserved fruit. Decorate the top of the jam with narrow bars of paste, crossed all over, or stamped leaves. No. 355.—Turnovers. Roll out some short paste (No. 366), about one eighth of an inch thick ; cut it in pieces about four inches in length, and between two and tliree inches in breadth; lay on each a little raspben-y jam, or ■any other preserved fruit, without syrup; turn the edges over, wet- ting them, as little as possible, with water; press them lightly together, and also the ends; lay them on tins, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Ice them, (as in No. 369), and return them to the oven for a few minutes, or, set them in a Dutch or American oven before the fire. No. 356.—French Turnover of Apples. Eight large apples; eight ounces of sugar; t'vo ounces of butter, and the rind of a lemon. Prepare the apples as for a pie; put them into a saucepan with the sugar, butter, the rind of a lemon, rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water; cover the pan, and set it over a slow fire, turning it occasionally till the apples are about half done, and pour them into a basin to cool. Roll out a piece of paste (No. 366) in a circular form, the eighth of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner plate; wet it round, and fasten a rolled cord of paste withiu an inch of the edge; put in the prepared apples, raising them in the centre in the form of a dome; spread some apricot or orange marma- lade over the surface, and cover the whole with another circular piece of paste, and press the edges together, or fold them over in the form of a cord. Spread some beaten white of egg all over the top with a soft paste brush; then strew coarsely pounded, or rough granite sugar over the entire snrfacc, and bake lightly in a moderately hot oven.