EGGS. 31 the milk, cream, white peiiper and salt, with the eggs w'ell beaten ; stir all well together till properly tliickened, but do not allow them to boil; place some slices of buttered toast, cut into two-inch squares, on the bottom of the dish, and pom’ on the eggs. No. 95.—Butteked Eggs with Spinach. Half a pint of milk and cream mixed; two ounces of butter; six eggs; half a peck of spinach, and four ounces of parsley. Set the milk, cream, and butter on tbe fii’c, adding white pepper and salt; when neai’ly boiling, pour gradually to the eggs, well l)caten and strained, stirring it wcU; return it into the pan, and stir constantly over a slow fire, till it becomes tliick, but do not allow it to boil; pour it on toast, and cut in squares. Drain the spinach and parsley, previously boiled, and squeeze between two large plates; press it into six or eight hot coffee cups; turn it out immediately on a separate disli, or round the eggs. The spinach should be kept quite hot till requu’cd. No. 96.—Eggs with Asparagus. Six eggs; two ounces of butter; half a hundred of aspai’agus, and four table-spoonfuls of cream. Beat the eggs well; put them in a stew-pan, with the cream, butter, salt, pepper, and the asparagus, previously boiled till tender, but not too soft, and cut in small pieces about the size of fine peas; stir all together on a slow fire, till it becomes thick, and serve imme- diately on toast, cut in small square pieces. No. 97.—Eggs, with Eorcemeat Balls. Half a pound of bread-crumbs; two eggs; two table-spoonfuls of cream; two ounces of butter; one ounce of parsley and leeks, mixed, and a quarter of an ounce of lemon-thyme, and winter savory, mixed. Rub the butter in the bread-crumbs, adding the herbs; season with Cayenne pepper, salt, and mace; add the eggs well beaten, and the cream ; roll it into balls; fry them in butter; lay them on a flat dish with four or five eggs, boiled and cut in two, and serve with brown sauce, part of which shoidd be poured on the dish, and ciu’rant jelly.