PRESERVED FRUIT, ETC. 18‘J weight of bruised loaf sugar; boil the carrots till perfectly tender; mash them quite fine, and rub through a hair sieve; boil the pulp half an hour, adding the sugar, and the juice of two fiue lemons, aud when taken from the fire, stir in half an ounce of tartaric acid. No. 643.—Gooseberry Marmalade. Put green gooseberries in cold water; set them on a slow fire with a small bit of alum till they arc scalded aud become just soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve; allow half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; boU till it becomes stiff, aud then pour it into sweetmeat pots, or small moulds. No. 644.—Orange Marsialade. To twelve oranges, allow three lemons; boil them whole two hours in soft water with a large table-spoonful of salt in it; then boil them two hours in spring water, boiling quickly in each water half an hour, or more at the first, then moderately, to prevent the rinds from breaking; when sufficiently tender that the head of a pin will easily penetrate the rinds, drain, and let them remain till cold, reserving the water they were last boiled in for the syrup; cut the fruit in two; take out all the pulp and skins, and rub with a wooden spoon through a hair sieve; then weigh it, also the rinds, which must be pounded in a marble mortar, or a wooden bowl; to each pound of fruit, allow two pounds of sugar, bruised, and a pint of the water in which the fruit was boiled, stirring it over the fire till the sugar is dissolved; cover the pan till the syrup is nearly boiling, watching it carefully; draw it to the side of the fire to boil gently till the scum can be cleared off; then stir in the fruit till well mixed, aud boil it half an hour, or till quite clear. No. 645.—Orange Chip Marmalade. To twelve Seville oranges, allow three lemons; weigh them, and boil two hours, in soft water, adding a large spoonful of salt, and then boil them two hours in spring water. They should boil quickly the first hour in each water, then moderately, to prevent the rinds break- ing, reserving the water in which they were last boiled for the syruji,