VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 148 the eggs, well beaten. Dissolve the soda in the milk; pour it upon the other ingredients; mi.x well, and heat it with a wooden spoon twenty minutes, and bake in a buttered tin, or earthenware baking pan, in a moderately hot oven. If caraway seeds be used instead of currants, quarter of an ounce would be the proper quantity, adding a little more sugar. The baking- powder answers very well for this cake. No. 510.—Common Tea Cakes. Two pounds of flour ; half an ounce of German yeast; half a pint of new milk, and one ounce of butter. Mix about half a pint of warm water with the milk, and add it to the yeast, previously rubbed till smooth with a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a very little cold water, and let it settle for a few minutes. Rub the butter in the flom-, adding a little salt; then pour the milk and yeast through a fine strainer into the middle of the flour, being careful to avoid putting in any sediment; stir it with a wooden slice; cover with a cloth, and set it before the fire ; when sufficiently risen, mix, and set it to rise again; when risen, roil out the cakes ; lay them on warm flat baking tins ; let them rise quarter of an hour, and then bake them in a hot oven. Currants may be added. No. 511.—Tea Cakes. Two pounds of flour; nearly a pint of milk; two ounces of butter; one egg; one tea-spoonful of salt, and half an ounce of German yeast. Rub the yeast quite smooth, with a tea-spoonful of sugar and a dessert spoonful of cold water; stir the milk just warm to the yeast; take out the spoon, and let it remain two or three minutes undisturbed. Rub the butter in the flour, adding the salt; make a hole in the middle, and clear off the milk into it through a fine strainer, stirring it with a wooden slice till it forms a thick batter, and leaving the sedi- ment at the bottom in the basin; set the bowl, covered, before the fire, but not too near ; when the sponge has risen, add the egg, well beaten, and mix the dough with the slice till smooth, beating it as