VEGKTAKIAN COOKERY. 18 Boil the rice in one pint of water, till the water is quite absorbed; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten, the parsley and season- ng ; pour it into a hot buttered dish j bake it; garnish with curled parsley, and serve with brown sauec. No. .'53.—Savoury Omelet. One pound of bread-crumbs; one ounce and a half of parsley; half an ounce of lemon-thyme, sage, and sweet marjoram, together, but least of the marjoram; four ounces of onion; three ounces of tapi- oca ; two ounces of butter, and seven eggs. Hub the butter into the bread-crumbs; add the herbs, chopped small, and a salt-spoonful of dry mustard; steep the tapioca ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of cold w'ater; put it with the onions, chopped very small, to the bread-crumbs, seasoning with pepper and salt; mix the whole with the yolks of the eggs, and one white, well beaten. Melt some butter in a dish ; put in the omelet, and set it in a brisk oven, from ten to fifteen minutes, just suffi- cient for it to set a little at the bottom and sides; scoop out the middle of the omelet with a spoon, leaving about au inch round the sides and at the bottom of the dish; put in the whites of the eggs, beaten a little, wuth a small table-spoonful of fiue bread-crumbs, and a little salt; return the part of the omelet scooped out, to the sides of the dish, but not over the white of the eggs; bake it tU] of a nice brown; take it out of the oven; let it stand a few minutes, turn it out on a hot dish, and serve with mint sauce and brown sauce. No. 54.—Spinach Omelet. Quarter of a pound of spinach ; quai'ter of a pound of beets ; halt an ounce of parsley; half an ounce of leeks and lemon-thyme, mixed; one large table-spoonful of floui-; four spoonfuls of milk; foin eggs, and two ounces of butter. Chop the herbs all together; season with pepper, salt, and nut- meg or mace; add the flour, mOk, the eggs, well beaten, and the butter melted ; mix the whole well together, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven.