INTEODUCTION. sxx their revolving orbs, which the eye of man has never witnessed; and myriads of animals, on this glohe and others, enjoy their sports and pastimes, unheeded and unseen by him; how, then, could they have been created for his use ?” “ Ask for what end the heavenly bodies shine, Earth for whose use ? Pride answers—‘ ’Tis for mine! ‘ Eor me kind nature wakes her genial pow'r, ‘ Suckles each herb, and spreads out ev'ry flow’r; ‘ Annual for me, the grape, the rose renew ‘ The juice neetareous, and the balmy dew; ‘ For me the mine a thousand treasures brings ; ‘ For me health gushes from a thousand springs; ‘ Seas roll to waft me, suns to light me rise ; ‘ My footstool earth, my canopy the skies.’ Has God (thou fool!) work’d solely for thy good;— Thy joy, thy pastime, thy attire, thy food ? “Who for thy table feeds the wanton fawn. For him as kindly spreads the flow’ry lawn. Is it for thee the lark ascends and sings ? Joy tunes his voice, joy elevates his wings. Is it for thee the linnet pours his throat ? Loves of his own and raptures swell the note. Know, Nature’s children aU divide her care: The fur that warms a monarch, warm’d a bear. While man exclaims—* See aU things for my use !’ ‘ See man for mine I’—replies a pamper’d goose. And just as short of reason he must fall, AVho thinks all made for one, not one for all.” • We should much regret occupying the space required for even brief replies to these various objections, but for the fact of their arising so generally, and as it were standing as obstructions to argiunents of real consideration. We are compelled, therefore, to notice another of these, which assumes a disadvantageous aspect, and is met with greater difficulty, arising out of the more or less conflicting opinions of society as to what is to be the true standard of judgment upon the subject. It is stated, that “ the declarations of Scripture are opposed to the principles and practice of Vegetarianism.” On this subject we trust we cannot be misapprehended when we state, that our con- victions lead us not merely to acknowledge the importance of the revealed truths contained in the Scriptures, but the expressed facts Essay on Man. Epis, _i. 1. 131.