XXXIX INTRODUCTION. obtains for want of reflection, and througli that pell-mell state of existence which keeps the true facts of the case from being reasoned upon. We consider it would bo a libel upon the tenderest portion of our nature, to suppose that the flesh and blood of animals could con- tinue to be the food of any but the degraded of society, were it not for the keeping out of sight of the true incidents and accompaniments of slaughter; and there is no resisting the force of the fact, that the benevolence of man’s nature is shocked by an examination of the de- formities of the system. A talented writer in a beautiful article on Human Progress, in the Westminster Review,* forcibly remarks :— “ The practice of feeding upon the flesh of animals, entombing their bodies within our own, has something in it repugnant to refinement.” * * * « get rid of the distasteful operation of killing, we em- ploy butchers—helots of the modern world, whose very name we employ as a term of vituperation. Tliis is not Christian, to say the least of it. We have no right to degrade any human beings, or regard as inferior those who prepare the materials that enter into the most intimate combination with our own persons. There is some- thing humiliating in the sight of a delicate person who faints at the sight of blood or a butchers’ shop, and then sits down to eat of the carcasses that have there been cut up.” * * All the animal food arti- ficially bred by farmers or others, is with little exception, unwhole- some. The poison we take in by the lungs in the gaseous form, is not the only poison we imbibe. We make an outcry about cleansing the sewers of our cities, and yet make sewers of our bodies. We cleanse our outer skin, and pollute om- inner skin.” * * “But we believe that the still obtaining consumption of animal food is simply a remnant of savage life, a custom doomed to vanish under the light of human reason.” It is quite opposed to reason, as well as to the instincts and moral feelings of man to contend, as some have done, that the tendency to destroy, in certain individuals,—leading them to rejoice in the pursuits of the sportsman, and in bloodshed in various forms,—is evidence of the natural character of man. These instances cannot properly be regarded as types of humanity, but as abnormal cases of the degi-ading effects of pernicious training; since all such can remember a time * ^io. cii. p. 10.