VEGETAHIAN COOKEEY. 212 it into a stew-pot, with plenty of water; cover, and set it in the oven tiU the wheat is quite soft, and when cold, it will he quite a jelly. When required for use, put as much of the wheat with milk into a pan, as will make it about the consistency of rice milk, stirring it constantly with a wooden slice or spoon, and mashing the wheat, it being liable to burn; when near boiling, stir in a small portion of flour, mixed tiU smooth with a little milk, adding sugar, grated nut- meg, and a little salt, and when it boils, it will he ready. Frumenty may be thickened with the yolks of eggs, beaten with a little mUlc, instead of flour; currants, or Sultana raisins, picked and washed, may also he added. No. 725.—Areow-uoot Milk. Three quarters of au ounce of arrow-root, and one pint of milk. Set the milk on the fire, and when near boiling, pour it upon the arrow-root, previously mixed with a little sugar, and cold water tUl quite smooth; pour the milk gradually upon it, stirring constantly; return it into the pan, and stir it on the fire two or three minutes. No. 726.—Mulled Milk. One quart of new mUk; two ounces of sugar, and the yolks of five eggs. BoU. the milk five minutes, adding the sugar, and a piece of cin- namon ; theu pour it into a basin, and let it remain tUl cool; beat the yolks of the eggs well, adding a little cream; pour the milk gradually upon the eggs, stirring constantly; return the milk into the pan, and stir it over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; strain it through a fine strainer into a jug; pour it several times from one jug to another, and it will then he ready. No. 727.—Rice Milk. Quarter of a pound of rice, and three pints of milk. Wash and pick the rice, and soalc it one hour in cold water; then pour off the water, and set the rice on the fire with the mUk, and a little cinnamon, stirring it frequently; when sufficiently boiled, mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a little water, and stir it well in, adding sugar and salt.