VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 102 the water four or five times to take outthebittemess, and putting a large table-spoonful of salt in the water in which they are boiled; when done, drain the water from them, and take out the seeds and skins; then choi) them, with the raisins, in a wooden bowl; when finely chopped, add the currants, sugar, the apples (previously prepared as for apple sauce), the grated rind of the lemons, the juice, half a salt- spootiful of Cayenne pepper, a small tea-spoonful of mace, a small tea-spoonful of cinnamon, twelve or fifteen drops of almond-flavour, the candied orange and lemon, cut in thin slices, and lastly, the butter, melted, and stirred well in. Make the tarts in the usual way. Put the mince-meat in a jar; tie a paper over, and keep it in a dry cool place. No. 351.—Orange Tartlet. One ounce of fresh butter; the yolk of one egg, boiled hard, and a quarter of a pound of orange marmalade. Mash the yolk of egg with the buUer, and mix with the mar- malade. A small quantity of Savoy biscuit may also be added. Cover a plate or a large scolloped tartlet-tin with puff paste; ])our in the mixture, aud bake in a moderately hot oven. No. 352.—Prune Tart. Scald the prunes, and after taking out the stones, put them into a saucepan with a little water and sugar; simmer over a slow fire about ten minutes; then pour them into a basin, and when rather cool, add a little raspbciTy vinegar, or lemon-juice. Line a flat dish with paste; put in the prunes; cover with paste, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven. No. 353.—Tarts. Roll out some puff paste (No. 364) about quarter of an inch thick; cut it in round cakes with a tin cutter about three inches across; then cut a piece out of half the cakes with a tin cutter about two inches across, leaving a rim or border about half an inch broad; wet the edges of the cakes with as little water as possible, and lay the rims of paste on each cake; bake in a moderately hot oven; lay them on a dish, and when quite cold, put preserved fruit in each tart.