CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 127 while warm; when nearly cold, add the yolks of eggs, well beaten, or the cream, and serve in a glass or china dish. No. 438.—Irish Cream. One pint and a half of cream; the whites of three eggs; one ounce and a half of isinglass;(■) six ounces of white sugar; a very little saffron, and two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Dissolve tbe isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water, adding the saffron, steeped in orange-flower water; when strained, put it into a pan, with the cream, sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten; let the whole boU together quarter of an hour, and then strain it through a lawn sieve into a mould, previously dipped in cold water. No. 439.—Lemon Cream. One pint of cream ; two eggs; four ounces of wliito sugar, and one lemon. Beat well the yolks of the eggs ; put them to the cream and sugar, adding the rind of the lemon, pared very thin; set it on a moderate fire, stirring constantly till it boils ; pour it into a basin, and stir till nearly cold ; put the juice of the lemon in a bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring till quite cold, and serve in a glass dish. No. 440.—Lemon Cream. Four lemons; one pint of water; five eggs, and six ounces of white sugar. Put the whites of the eggs, well beaten, to a pint of water; strain it, and add the juice of four, and the grated rind of two lemons, and the sugar; mix all well together; set it on a moderate fire, but do not allow it to boU.; pour it into a bowl, and when cool, add the yolks 2. It haa been reasonably objected that isinglass is not a proper element of Vegetarian cookery, but it does not appear that it has yet been entirely su- perseded by any extract from the vegetable kingdom. Irish moss and Ice- land moss arc found to answer very well in some instances, as in receipt No. 457 ; and it is probable that when chemical science shall be more completely applied to the art of preparing food, a substance, superior in all respects to the isinglass commonly used, will be obtained from vegetable productions.