VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 14 No. 39.—Peencii Bean Omelet. Pour eggs; two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; two table-spoonfuls of Pi-ench beans; two ounces of butter; two salt- spoonfuls of salt; and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Beat the eggs well; add the cheese, pepper, and salt; mix all toge- ther, and put in the beans, cut small and well boiled. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and fry the omelet in the usual way. Any kind of mild good cheese may be used. No. 40.—Macaroni Omelet. Two ounces of macaroni; two ounces of bread crumbs; two table- spoonfuls of flour; four eggs; half a pint of new milk; three table- spoonfuls of cream, and half an ounce of parsley. Boil the macaroni till tender; drain the water from it; rub the flour smooth with two spoonfuls of cold water; pour the boiling milk upon it, stirring it till it becomes thickened; add the macaroni cut in small pieces, the parsley, chopped small, and the eggs, well beaten ; season with pepper and salt; bake it in a hot, buttered dish, in a moderately hot oven, till nicely browned; let it stand a few minutes after it is taken out of the oven; turn it over on a hot, flat dish, and serve with brown sauce and onion sauce. No. 41.—Macaroni Quenelle. One ounce of macaroni; four ounces of bread-crumbs; three eggs; two ounces of butter; a quarter of a pint of cream, or new milk; a quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley; one tea-spoonful of sweet leeks, and one tea-spoonful of lemon-thyme, marjoram, winter savoury, and sweet basil, mixed. BoU. the macaroni in water till tender, and cut it in small pieces ; boil the cream; pour it upon the bread crumbs, and cover with a plate; when cold, add the herbs, the butter, melted, the eggs well beaten, and the macaroni; mix all together; season with mace, Cayenne and white pepper, salt, and spice powder; pour it into a buttered mould, and steam it, with a piece of paper over the top, about three quarters of an hour, and serve with wliite or mushroom sauce. Macaroni Quenelle is equally good when lightly baked, and served with brown sauce and currant jelly.