INTRODUCTION. xin once being, that the canine or eye-teeth ai-e generally much more developed than in man. Indeed, the canine teeth argument is very unfortunate, in proving far too much for the mixed diet system; since, if accepted as ordinarily presented, as indicating that man is to con- sume flesh, the inference would be, that the monkey tribe, as well as the horse and the camel, which possess these teeth more developed than man, should necessarily be more carnivorous than he. We have probably bestowed somewhat more attention upon this opposing argument than it in itself merits, since the objection is but the result of false reasoning, and has never been entertained by the greatest naturalists and physiologists who have fully directed theii’ attention to this subject, a few brief extracts from the writings of whom, we here present, as confirmatory of our position, as well as for the redemption of those great authorities from the popular error attempted to be fixed upon them. LINN.SU8, one of the most celebrated naturalists, speaking of fruit, says:—“This species of food is that which is most suitable toman: which is evinced by the series of quadrupeds; analogy; wild men; apes; the structure of the mouth, of the stomach, and the hands.” * Baron Cuvier, whoso knowledge of comparative anatomy was in- disputably profound, and whose authority is therefore entitled to the greatest respect, writes thus :—“ Fruits, roots, and the succulent parts of vegetables, appear to bo the natural food of man: his hands afford him a facility in gathermg them; and his short and comparatively weak jaws, his short canine teeth not passing beyond the common line of the others, and the tuberculous teeth, would not permit him either to feed on herbage or devour flesh, imless those aliments were previously prepared by the culinary processes.” Gassendi, after a careful comparison of the teeth of man with those of other animals, declares:—“ Wherefore, I repeat, that from the primeval and spotless institution of our natm’e, the teeth w’ere destined to the mastication, not of flesh but of fruits.” “ As to what relates to flesh, it is indeed true that man may be sustained on meat; but how many tilings does man do which are contrary to his nature ! Such is the perversion of manners, now, by a general contagion, enamelled into him, that ho seems to have become a new creature. Linnjei Amesnitates Academicce, vol. x., p. 8.