200 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. upon six pounds of raspberries in abroad jar; cover, and let it remain twenty four hours; then strain it through a sieve, taking care to bruise the fruit as little as possible; to each pint of juice add one pound and a half of pounded sugar, stirring it frequently till the sugar is perfectly dissolved; then bottle the acid in half-pint bottles; cork well, and keep it in a cool place. No. 682.—Black Currant Vinegar. Pick, and bruise well, eight pounds of ripe black currants; put to them two quarts of good gooseberry or sugar vinegar; let it remain in a cool place thirty six hours, stirring it frequently with a w'ooden spoon; put eight pounds of sugar, broken, into a deep earthen vessel with a wide top; tie over it a piece of clean flannel, wi'ung out of water as dry as possible, pressing down the flannel in the centre, so as to hold the fruit and vinegar; let the juice drop upon the sugar till all is drained out, pressing the fruit gently; occasionally stir the juice and sugar till the sugar is perfectly dissolved; put it into a preserving pan, and boil it a little tiU free from scum, on a moderate fire, and cold, bottle it in pint bottles. A stone jar is the best to boil it in, or a pan lined with earthen- ware. Red currant vinegar, and elder-berry vinegar, are prepared in the same way, using a rather less quantity of sugar for the latter. No. 683.—Raspberry Vinegar. Bruise eight pounds of raspberries; pour on them three pints of good goosebeny or sugar vinegar; let it remain twenty four hours, frequently stimng with a wooden spoon ; put six pounds of broken loaf sugar into an earthen vessel, and the fruit and vinegar into a jcUy-bag; let it drop upon the sugar till all the juice is strained out, presssing it, occasionally, very gently; pour the syrup into a pre- serving pan, boiling it a little, just to clear it, taking off the scum; then take it from the fire; pour it into an earthen vessel, and when cold, bottle it in pint bottles. When wanted for use, put two table- spoonfuls in a small tumbler of water.