INTRODUCTION. XXXIV well as many of the present time, who are identified with the Vege- tarian movements in this country and America. Many instances to prove the health, longevity, and strength of classes of men carrying out this practice, can also be quoted from the experience of the world. The Pattamars of India, who travel such extraordinary distances on foot, as carriers of despatches, mentioned by Sir John Sinclair, subsist upon moderate portions of rice; the Poles and Hungarians of the Carpathian mountains were of the hardiest and most unth’ing soldiers in the army of Buonaparte, their great endurance being justly traceable to the simplicity of their dietetic practices; whilst the men who lift and carry the heaviest bm-dens, as the porters of Morocco, Smyrna, and Spain, with the Coolies of Canton, [are all adherents to the simplest habits of diet. The Greek boatmen again, are instances demonstrative of supe- riority as to strength and development of body, as well as hilarity which characterises them, and bestows a cheerfulness over all their occupations. We quote one or two instances, to add force to our remarks upon this subject, and made necessary, perhaps, by the erro- neous opinion prevalent, that the beef-fed and porter-drinking labour- ers of Great Britain are the strongest men in the world; while, in fact, their utmost lifting of weights and carrying of burdens does not in any degree approximate to the ordinary labours of the various classes of men of whom we are speaking, whose diet is, notwithstand- ing, black bread, figs, dates, raisins, and other such fruits, and whose choicest beverage is a glass of iced water. “The Greek boatmen,” says the venerable judge Woodruff, of Connecticut, who went out as the agent of the New York Committee for the relief of the Greeks, “ are seen in great numbers about the harbours; seeking employment with their boats. They are exceed- ingly abstemious. Their food always consists of a small quantity of black bread, made of unbolted rye or wheat-meal, generally rye; a bunch of grapes or raisins, and some figs. They are, nevertheless, astonishingly athletic and powerful, and the most nimble, active, graceful, cheerful, and even merry people in the world.” * * In Smyrna, where there are no carts or wheel-carriages, the carrying business falls upon the shoulders of the porters; who are seen in great numbers about the wharves and docks, and in the streets near the water-side; where they are employed in loading and unloading