svnups, ETC. l'J5 When required for use, boil a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel in water a few minutes, and then add one third part of syrup to two of water; lemon-juice or vinegar syrup and a little prepared ginger may be added. No. 661.—Ginger Syrup. To four ounces of the best ginger, bruised, add three pints of boil- ing distilled water; cover it, and let it remain four hours; then strain it through muslin, or a lawm sieve; to one quart, add three pounds of loaf sugar, and let it boil tiU it becomes a clear, thick syrup. No. 662.—Grape Syrup. To twelve pounds of grapes, when picked, add three pints of water; set them on a moderately hot fire till the grapes are well boiled, keeping the pan covered; then strain through- a hair sieve, gently pressing the grapes; when cool, cover with a plate, and let the juice remain tiU the next day ; then carefully clear it off, and to each pint, aUow a pound of loaf sugar, broken; put the sugar into a pan, adding a pint of water to each four pounds; stir it, whilst cold, till the sugar is partly dissolved; then put it on a rather brisk fire with the pau covered, stirring occasionally tiU nearly boiling; then watch it carefully, and if it rise very mucli, draw the pan a little forward ; let it boil up quickly several times, then moderately, tiU there is a thick scum formed at the side of the pan; take it off quite clean; then pour in the juice; and cover the pan till nearly boiling; remove the cover, and let the syrup boil quarter of an hour, carefully taking off any scum that may rise. Put half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pieces, into a large stone jar; pour on the syrup; let it remain tilt the following day; then strain it into bottles; cork, and set them in a cool place. A block-tin, or brass pan should be used. No. 663.—Mui.berry Syrup. Pick the mulberries and put them in a jar with very little water; set the jar in a pan of water on the fire; when sufficiently done, that the juice will easily separate from the fruit, strain through a fine hair