xxxii INTRODUCTION. do wo refer to this, because the scientific revelations of the greatest en- lightenment, have hitherto declared for precisely the same character of food ; manifesting that what was prescribed when all things wore declared to bo “ very good” is still the natm’al and best food of man. We submit, therefore, that the above objection originates merely in a misconception of Scripture. As a fit sequel to the various arguments already presented in the treatment of our subject, we now approach the experience of the sys- tem we would commend to the attention of the public, and regret that our space for this department is far too limitp.f1 to admit of more then a bare reference to the evidence that could be brought to bear upon it. The doubt so frequently expressed, as to the possibility of subsistence upon a diet apart from flesh, ought long since to have been exploded, by the mere notice of the animal creation, where we see the massive carcasses of the herbivorous animals, actually built up on the simplest products of natm’e, and to a degree of strength and endurance of fatigue altogether surpassing those of corresponding developments in the carnivorous classes of animals. We wiU not therefore, anticipate doubts at this stage of our reasoning, as to the practicability of the Vegetarian system of diet; since these must neces- sarily be removed by a very limited inquiry upon the subject. We present, however, the conclusion arrived at by the able writer in the Review from which we have already quoted: “ In concluding, then, that the Vegetable kingdom is perfectly capable of supplying the necessary wants of man under aU ordinary circumstances; and that, in particular, it is quite adequate to the production of an amount of physical force which can probably not be permanently surpassed on any other dietetic system, we consider that the advocates of Vege- tarianism have a wide and secure basis of experience, such as can scarcely be shaken by any negative testimony,—certainly not by the fullest proof of the unsuitablcness of a vegetable regimen to individuals." * In regard to the experience presented by history upon this subject, we have already alluded to the primeval condition of man, in the antediluvian period. We find, also, the history of the great nations of antiquity identified with the simple habits we seek to commend. The Greeks and the Eomans in the time of their early and most Medico-Chirurgical Review, No. xi, p. 96.