182 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. two inches in length; add one pound and a half of white sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the rinds, grated; put aU into a preserving pan, and simmer gently tiU the rhubai’b is quite soft; take it out carefully with a silver spoon, and put it into jars; then boil the syrup about half an hour, and pour it over the rhubarb. No. 616.—Siberian Crabs. "When the crabs are quite ripe, take off the stalks; then prick and put them into a jar; pour boiling water over them, and cover closely till the next day; piek out any that may be shrivelled, and to a pint of the water in which they were scalded, put half a pound of loaf sugar; boil and skim it; then pour it upon the crabs, and let them remain three days; take them from the syrup; add more sugar; boil it, and when cold, put in the crabs; set them on a moderate fire, and boil them two or three times tUl they look clear, and the syrup becomes thick. No. 617.—Strawberries. To each pound of fruit, allow an equal w’eight of loaf sugar; dis- solve it in red currant-juice while cold; set it on the fire, and when it boUs, put in the fruit; let it scald, but not boil, six or eight mi- nutes ; then take out the fruit earefully into a bowl with a sliee or colander-spoon; boU the syrup a few minutes; skim and pour it hot on the fruit; cover, and let it remain, till quite cold; boil the syrup several times, allowing it to boil five or six minntes each time, skim- ming, and pouring it hot upon the fruit; when boiling the syrup the last time, just seald the fruit in it; then put the fruit carefully into jars, pouring the syrup upon it, and paper as before directed. It may easily be aseertained when the syrup is sufficiently boiled, by dropping a little on a plate, and when it becomes thick, like jelly, it wUl be ready. The small scarlet strawberries ai-e the best for pre- serving. No. 618.—Strawberries. Put three pounds of fine scarlet strawberries, before they are very ripe, into a pint and a half of syrup; just scald them; then take them