7 SOUPS. them through a we sieve; put the pulp into a pan with the milk and fresh butter; season with white pepper, and salt; stir it on the fire till it bods ; and then let it stew gently till of the consisteney of common peas soup. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and with the cream put them into the tureen; pom’ in the hot soup, and stir it till well mixed. Serve immediately. No. 18.—Dried Green Peas Soup. One pint and a half of dried green peas; half a pint of boiled spinaeh; one lettuce; four ounces of butter, and one tea-spoonful of flour. After steeping the peas in soft water twelve hours, set them on the fire in a quart of boiling soft water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a large pea, and two ounces of butter; simmer gently till the peas are perfectly soft, and rub them through a fine colander, or wire sieve; add the lettuce and boiled spinach; put aU together into the pan, with two quarts of boiling water; simmer till nearly ready; take out the lettuce, and add some heads of aspai’a- gus, or a few leaves and young stalks of spinach, cut in very small pieces; stir in a tea-spoonful of flour, mixed with two ounces of butter; season with pepper and salt; add a piece of sugar, the size of a walnut, and boil the soup twenty minutes. No. 19.—Green Peas Soup. One quart of green peas; two lettuces; tliree onions; half a pound of bread ; two quarts of peas-shells, with the stalks cut off; three tur- nips ; one table-spoonful of salt, and a handful of spinach, or a small bunch of parsley. To five quarts of boiling water, add the salt, a piece of soda the size of a small nut, the bread, the vegetables (sliced), and the pcas- sheUs; boil the whole together quickly, fifteen or twenty minutes; take off the scum; cover the pan, and continue boiliug it moderately till the vegetables are quite soft; rub the soup through a wire sieve, or colander; return it into the pan; add a quart of boiling water; season with pepper and salt, and boil it about ten minutes.