190 TEGETARIAN COOKERY. and when the oranges are tender, so tliat the head of a pin will easily penetrate them, they will he sufficiently done. Put them in a sieve to drain, and let them remain till cold; then cut them iu quarters, and after taking out the pulp and skins, cut the rinds in very thin slices. Allow half a pint of the water in which the fruit was last hoiled, and two pounds of sugar, to each pound of fruit; boil till the syrup is clear; then put in the chips, and the pulp, from which the seeds and skins have been removed; let it boil half an liour, and pour it into sweetmeat pots. No. 646.—Grated Orange Marmalade. To twelve oranges, allow three lemons, and to each pound of fruit, allow a pound and a half of sugar, and a tea-cupful of water; wash and brush the fruit, and when wiped quite dry, grate off all the yellow rinds, and tie them in muslin, boiling them for two hours; during the boiling, slice the fruit, and squeeze out all the pulp and juice; put the remainder into the water intended for the syrup, stirring it frequently; then strain the water through a hair sieve; put it in a preserving pan with the sugar, bruised, stirring it till the sugar is dissolved; set it on the fire, till it has boiled a short time, to clear it of the scum; drain the water well from the gratings, and scrape them out of the muslin, stirring them with the pulp and juice into the sjTup; boil till quite cleai’, aud the fruit well done, and then pour it into small jars. No. 647.—Peach Marmalade. Pare ripe peaches, aud cut them iu halves, taking out the stones. To each pound of fruit, allow half a pound of loaf sugar. !Mash the peaches with the pounded sugar; put them into a preserving pan, and let them boil slowly about three quarters of an hour, stirring fre- quently ; when sufficiently boiled, add a few drops of almond-flavour, and pour the marmalade into small moulds. No. 648.—Pine-Apple Marmalade. Pare, and cut into small pieces, several small pine-apples, aud to a quart thus cut, add one pound of powdered sugar; boil half an hour, and pour into sweetmeat pots.