XXVI INTRODUCTION. the committee in 1850, that one establishment in London, spends as much as £600 per week in diseased meat. We call attention to a pamphlet published some time since, on the removal of the Smithfield market, * and the evidence given upon the subject before a committee of the House of Commons, as well as to that given before the Lords already referred to, in connection with the pre- vention of the spread of infectious disease amongst cattle, and to two articles in Household Words, f treating on this subject, in which much more than our space will here permit us to refer to, will be found. One graphic fact of these narrations is, that in Sharp’s Alley, long denoimced as of more than suspicious reputation for its trade in diseased meat, where we find the largest “knacker’s yard” in the metropolis, we find in close proximity,—next door to the domain of the licensed “horse slaughterer to her Majesty”—the largest sausage establish- ment in all London, and that the keepers of these two establishments are relatives—brothers, or brothers-in-law. The details of these practices affecting public health, are truly dis- gusting, and could not possibly be tolerated but for the belief that each consumer of the flesh of animals escapes the “tainted meat” thus shown to be passed off in such quantities. But here is the great groimd for doubt to which we would direct attention, and out of which arises an additional argiunent in support of the Vegetarian system: it is exceedingly difficult to detect much of the meat sdld in this con- dition, the price and the absence of the general amount of fat, say the best informed, being the only evidence, in most cases, by which it can be judged, even though supplied from the carcasses of animals extensively diseased. Independently of this, we may also call atten- tion to the inquiries of WniTLAW, and others long since placed before the public, in relation to affections of the liver and lungs, produced in animals by the modes of treatment adopted, and especially under the practice of stall-feeding, these declarations relating solely to the animals usually considered as the most healthful brought to market. • Inquiry into the present state of the Smithfield Cattle Market, and the Dead Meat Markets of the Metropolis. t “ Heart of Mid London,” No. 6, p. 121; and “ The Cattle Eoad to Euin,” No. 14, p. 325.