5 SOUPS. No. 12.—Lentil Soup. One quart of lentils; two pounds and a half of parsnips; two pounds of celery; two ounces of eschalots, or leeks; one ounce of chopped parsley, and two ounces of butter. Wash and pick the lentils; steep them twenty-fom' hours in soft water; set them on the fire in four quarts of spring water; add the vegetables and some salt; boil till quite soft; rub through a fine col- ander or coarse sieve, adding boiling water as required; return it to the pan; season with pepper and salt; stir in the butter, and boil a few minutes. No. 13.—Macaroni Soup. Half a pound of Naples macaroni; one quart of mushrooms; two turnips ; one onion; three Jerusalem artichokes; one dessert-spoon- ful of potato-flour; a quarter of a pint of cream, and fom' ounces of bread crumbs. Boil the macaroni in two quai-ts of water, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a small piece of butter; when tender, drain the water from it; wash it in fresh water; lay it in a clean cloth for a short time, and cut it in pieces about an inch in length. Wash the mush- rooms without paring them, or eutting off the stems; put them in a pan with three quarts of water, the turnips, onions, artichokes, bread crumbs, mace, pepper, and salt; boil them till the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub them through a sieve; return the soup into the pan ; put in the macaroni; set it on the fire again; stir in the potato flour, mixed with a little cold water till quite smooth; add a little Cayenne pepper, and salt, as required, and when it has boiled ten minutes, add the cream. No. 14.—Macaroni Soup. Four ounces of macaroni; one quart of new milk; one quart of water; one large onion, and one ounce of the crumb of stale bread. Soak the macaroni two hours; put it into the milk and water, when boiling; add the bread, onion, and salt, and boil all slowly till quite soft; rub it through a sieve twiee over; return it into the pan, adding more seasoning, and either a quarter of a pint of cream, or one ounce of butter; boil it a few minutes, and serve with toasted bread.