INTRODUCTION. XVll 291b., 311b., and 331b., of flesh principle, and 61^, 61J, and 481b, respectively, of the elements supplying animal heat. We would not advocate the general use of the most nutritive food as the best for the health of the system, knowing that the common error of diet with those in easy circumstances, is to take food too nutritive for the wants of the system; but we still regard the above chemical facts as highly important, in uprooting the popular impres- sion hitherto maintained in favour of the importance of “ butcher’s meat;” and especially so, when we see that in the most nutritive arti- cles of vegetable food an abundant supply of carbonaceous or heat- forming principle is combined with them, presenting an approxima- tion in most cases to the composition of milk, which has generally been accepted by chemists as the fittest type for the eomposition of food. The next argument we beg to adduce in support of the Vegetarian system, is one of great importance, and such as cannot fail to have its due weight with the candid inquirer. Wo rejoice that, here also, we are enabled to remove a prejudice, which, perhaps more than any other, tends to maintain the meat-eating praetice. The common supposition has hitherto been, that the nutritive particles in the vege- table kingdom, if sufficient at all for the maintenance of health and strength, were at least inferior, and of different composition to the nutritive particles of food derived from the flesh of animals. In our treatment of this question, we have little more to do .than to quote the undisputed conclusions of Baron Liebig upon this subject:— “ Grain and other nutritious vegetables yield us,” says Liebig, “not only in starch, sugar, and gum, the carbon which protects our organs from the action of oxygen, and produces in the organism the heat which is essential to life, but also in the form of vegetable fibrine, albumen, and casoine, our blood, from which the other parts of our body arc developed.” * “ These important products of vegetation are especially abundant in the seeds of the different kinds of grain, and of peas, beans, and lentils; in the roots and juices of what are commonly called vege- tables. They exist, however, in all plants, without exception, and in every part of plants in larger or smaller quantity.” f “ The chemical analysis of these three substances has led to the very * Animal Chemiatry, p. 77. t Ibid, p. 15.