123 AFFECTIONS OF SPINAL CORD. of the lower extremities, greater part oi ime ^ > „io„ +Lo hlailHfir There was progressive lowering of the temperature pulse 30. With this extraordinary decrease in temperature and pulse the number of respirations was not materially diminished, but the quality was changed; as the temperature went down the inspirations became shorter and the expirations longer. M. Bernhardt gives (‘Arch. f. Psychiatrie,’ iv, 227) a case of unilateral injury of the spinal cord in a woman, set. 61; the right ex- tremities retained the power of movement, but not sensibility. An abortive form of spinal epilepsy was also noticed on the paralysed side, such as Brown-Sequard observed after division of one half of the coid in guinea-pigs. There was in this case no ansesthesia over the parts supplied by the fifth nerve. P. Riegel records (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 208) a case of the same kind in a man, set. 22, who was stabbed in the neck with a knife. After remaining for some time in a state of insensibility he presented the following symptoms :—On the left side paralysis of all the muscles with the exception of those of the head and neck, with hypersesthesia of touch, temperature and pain, increase of reflex irritability, and later on atrophy of the paralysed muscles, with corresponding changes in the temperature. On the right side of the body there was an almost entire anaesthesia of all forms of sensation, with complete power of motion. Riegel concludes from the symptoms that the left half of the cervical cord was divided in this case. The tremors and increased reflex irritability were treated successfully with hypodermic injections of arsenious acid. Meschede (‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1873, 293) gives a case of sarcoma of the spinal cord with secondary grey degeneration. The patient, a female, had had complete paralysis of the lower extremities for some time before death. The autopsy revealed the presence of a tumour of the size of a bean growing from the inner surface of the pia mater, in the neighbourhood of the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and press- ing upon the posterior and left side of the cord. As to the partial grey degeneration in the neighbourhood, he would ascribe it in this as in other cases to the amount of pressure on the cord. Charcot, “Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Spinal Cord,” * Lancet,’ 1874, ii, 73. Moxon, “ Case of Insular Sclerosis of Brain and Spinal Cord,” ib., 1873, i, 236. G. i1. Box, “ Cerebro-spinal Sclerosis” (resume of Bourneville’s and Guerard’s observations, &c.), ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1874, ii, 143. Lockhart Clarke, “Sclerosis of the Spinal Cord,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxv, 16. Pierret, “Note sur un cas de Sclerose primitive du faisceau median des Cordons posterieurs,” * Arch, de Phys.,’ v, 74. Debove, “ Note sur l’Histologie pathologique du Sclerose en plaques,” ib., 745. Charcot, “ Sclerose symmetrique primitive de la partie posterieure des Cordons antero-lateraux ” ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1874, 38. Du Castel, “ Observation de Sclerose primitive des Cordons de Goll,” ib., 33. Gombault, “ Sclerose symmetrique des Cordons antero-lateraux :