LEAD-POISONING, ETC. 127 master-potter, aged 43. For years she had suffered from unilateral headache; she had aborted five times, had lost five children in infancy, and had had lead-colic four times. Her family, all engaged in pottery, were exposed to the vapours of lead, and almost all had at one time or other had symptoms of lead-poisoning, accompanied by cerebral disturbance of some kind or other (apoplexy, hemiplegia, &c.). The patient herself had hemiplegia, due, probably, to rupture of some cerebral vessel; and the writer thinks that a congenital tendency to brain mischief was combined here with a special affection of the brain arteries set up by the lead, to produce this rupture. Some papers are included in the bibliography below with reference to the manner in which lead finds its way into drinking-water. Elgnowski, ‘Zur Casuistik der Bleilahmungen,’ Berlin, 1873, pp. 32. Gombaulfc, “ Contribution a l’histoire anatomique de 1’Atrophic musculaire saturnine,” ‘Arch, de Phys.,’ v, 590. Bouchut, “Intoxication saturnine suivie de mort cbez un Enfant de S jours, produite par l’Eau de Mine. Delacour, inise sur les gerqures du sein de la noun-ice,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’1873, 5. “Intoxication saturnine locale ” (revue), ib., 1874, 290. Crevaux, “Douze cas d’Empoisonment par le Plomb,” ib. ib., 930. Malassez, “ Recherches sur l’Anemie saturnine,” ‘ Presse Med. Beige,’ 1874, 69. Manouvrier, ‘ Recherches clmiques sur l’lntoxication saturnine locale et directe, &c.,’ Paris, 1874, pp. 86. Browne, “ Notes on an extensive series of cases of Lead-Poisoning occurring at H.M. Dockyard at Devonport,” ‘Lancet,’ 1873, ii, 147. Smith, “Functional Aphasia of six and a half years’ duration, intercurrent Lead-Poisoning affecting the Arytenoideus, recovery under the use of Electricity and Iodide of Potassium,” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xvii, 412. Siew, ‘ Ueber die Wirkung der Schwefelpraparate bei der chronischen Bleiver- giftung,’ Erlangen, 1873, pp. 21. Mayenqon et Bergeret, “Recherches du Plornb dans les Secretions,” ‘ Lyon Med.,’ xii, 434. Bellgrand, “ De Faction de l’Eau sur les conduites en plomb,” ‘ Compt. Rend.,’lxxvii, 1053. Fordos, “Action de l’Eau aeree sur le Plomb, consideree au point de vue de l’hygibne et de la medecine legale,” ib., 1099^ Laval, “Sur Femploi des tuyaux de Plomb pour la conduite des°eaux potables,” ib., 1271. Bobierre, “Sur les diverses conditions dans lesquelles le Plomb est attaque par l’Eau,” ib., 1272. Ckampouillon, “Sur l’emploi des tuyaux de Plomb pour la conduite et la distribution des Eaux destiuees aux usages alimentaires,” ib. 12^0. v. Tunzelmann, “Cases of Poisoning by Lead in Drinking-water” ‘Med Times and Gaz.,’1873, ii, 352. ’ Affections of the Sympathetic System. A. Otto gives (“ Beitrag zur Pathologie des Sympathicus,” ‘Deut Arch xi, 609) the following:—A woman, previously healthy, was at- tacked with vomiting, headache, and vertigo. A fortnight later she presented marked redness of the left half of the face, neck, and chest accompanied with dimness of vision, loss of memory, difficulty of speech, &c All the symptoms, which the writer refers to an affection tricity ^ symPathetlc’ dlsappeared under the employment of elec- A. Eulenburg ('Berlin. Klin.' Woch.,’ 1873, 169) records two cases m which he traces the symptoms to an affection of the same nerves. The first is that of a young man, ®t. 26, who suffered from mydriasis and imperfect accommodation of the left eye, with periodic pains m the left forehead, accompanied by coldness and decreased emperature of the left ear as compared with the right. The o-lancn on ic mner border of the left sterno-cleido-mastoid were swollen and probably pressed on the first cervical gaeglion. The secoXcae Jthat