424 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. on a foetal bone, and in the course of some months a large number were passed, and the abdominal tumour disappeared. Mr. F. H. Maberley relates a case of extra-uterine pregnancy in a woman aged 27, the mother of two children. The cyst had ruptured and gastrotomy was performed ; but the patient sank three hours after. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1873.) An interesting case of extra-uterine and intra-peritoneal pregnancy is recorded in the ‘ Lancet,’ Aug., 1873, under the care of Prof. Behier, Hotel Dieu, Paris; the patient died with symptoms simulating strangu- lation of the intestine ; a foetus of six weeks was found in the small pelvis enclosed in a blood clot, to which the left Pallopian tube was attached. A case of extra-uterine pregnancy is reported iu the * Wiener Med. Wochenschr.,’ Aug. 8, 1874, occurring in Prof. K. von Braun’s clinic. The patient was aged 35, and had borne two children. The woman sink- ing under a febrile attack it was resolved to operate on her death, as the foetal heart was counted at 100, and the foetal movements could be felt. Five minutes after she expired the Cajsarean section was per- formed, and a living foetus weighing more than 8 lbs. was removed ; its heart beat at 60 per minute for ten minutes, and it made three inspira- tions ; in spite of all attempts at resuscitation it expired. From the autopsy it was evident that the ovum had burst at an early period of pregnancy, and the foetus had gradually developed in the abdominal cavity ; the placenta remaining in its original place. (‘ Obstetrical Journal,’ Dec. 1874.) Dr. T. C. Lawton relates (‘Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,’ 1873) a case of extra-uterine foetation; the foetus was retained for 19 years. At the autopsy the foetus and placenta weighed 4^ pounds. It was found in the epigastric region, to the left of the median line, attached slightly to the left ovary ; there were extensive old peritoneal adhesions, but the foetus was not enclosed in a sac. III.—Labour. The Mechanism of Labour. Dr. Schlesinger, continuing his experiments formerly undertaken in conjunction with Dr. Oser, to determine the cause of uterine move- ments, states that electrical excitation of the central end of a spinal nerve calls forth, in from five to fifteen seconds, energetic contractions of the uterus. If artificial respiration be maintained in a curarised rabbit, on which tracheotomy has also been performed, the uterus (as other experiments when the centres were irritated also showed) was violently contracted. The same energetic contraction also occurred when the central end of the divided median or crural nerve was elec- trically irritated. The transformation of this reflex action (to which category the uterine movements on stimulation ol the nipples a so belong) is not effected through or by means of the spinal cord; tor when the medulla of a rabbit, prepared as above, was divided between the atlas and the occipital bone, irritation of a nerve trunk lasting or