203 NEW GROWTHS. longed into a broad sharply defined handle, homogeneous, like the body of the cell, of a slightly yellowish colour and not branching. To these bodies he gives the name of “brush-cells.” In this case, like the other, the interwoven fibrillse gave the appearance of an intercellular substance. Angioma. A. Thierfelder (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’xiv, 83) writes on two cases of mul- tiple angiomata occurring in the small intestine. The first is that of a man, mt. 48, engaged in a spirit distillery, and very probably a hard drinker, who died from an injury caused by machinery. In the sub- mucous tissue of the jejunum and upper portion of the ileum were found about 70 bluish tumours, each about the size of a pea, which at first sight appeared to be varices, but the blood could not be forced out by pressure, except with the result of extravasation. The second case is that of a man, sst. 3d> had died of smallpox. Here acrain the lower portion of the jejunum and the whole of the ileum con- tained about thirty tumours of the same kind as in the first case. The microscopic appearances found in both were similar. Sections made parallel with the long axis of the intestine showed them to be made up of the lumina of from five to eight vessels, containing no muscle-cells in their walls, separated by but little intervening tissue, and possessing no defined capsule. The arteries and veins adjoining them were of nor- mal calibre ; and the writer concludes that these tumours consisted of dilated capillaries. Pituitary Growth. J. Arnold gives (£ Virch. Arch.,’ lvii, 172) the history and microscopical examination of a case in which there was a tumour of the pituitary body. The patient was a man, set. 32, who after some festive occasion was attacked with intense headache, vomiting, and delirium. All the symp- toms pointed at first to a severe indigestion, but next day there was ptosis of the right eyelid, the pulse was very slow, and the patient was unable to answer any question put to him, while his urine was passed involuntarily. Symptoms of meningitis supervened, and he died three days later. No trace of meningeal or cerebral inflammation was visible post mortem, but there was found an oval tumour the size of a pigeon’s egg, half of which filled the pituitary fossa, the other half ex- tending to the tuber cinereum. The optic commissure was flattened, the right middle cerebral artery completely bloodless, the left turgid. Microscopic examination of the tumour, hardened in alcohol, revealed simple hyperplasia of the pituitary body. It was enclosed in a connective-tissue capsule with numerous dilated vessels. The micro- scopic appearances are given in full in the text, and illustrated by plates. Sarcoma. J. Arnold gives (£ Virch. Arch.,’ lvii, 297) three cases of primary sarcoma of the skull. The first—periosteal—occurred in a boy aged 4 years, the other two—medullary—in men aged 49 and 51. The his- tories and autopsies are given in full. In comparing the three cases he notices the tendency to ossification shown in the first, as well as the