403 UTERINE CANCER. capsule is incised, we expect the tumour to come slowly down, and dilate gradually the cervix. The enucleation cannot be attempted till the cervix is sufficiently dilated to allow the tumour to pass through it. The exact procedure gone through is then detailed, and a description given of several instruments which Dr. Sims has found useful in these cases. Spiegelberg writes on the diagnosis of cystic myomata of the uterus and their intraperitoneal enucleation, and describes a new method of operation (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ vi, 3, 1874). A patient aged 28, who was supposed to be suffering from ovarian disease, was operated upon. The ovaries were found unconnected with the tumour, which sprang from the posterior aspect of the uterus from about one inch below the fundus to the insertion of the vagina, and reaching more than four inches above the umbilicus ; it was covered by the uterine peritoneum and the posterior layers of the broad ligaments. On puncturing it was found to be a cystic tumour of the uterus; a bucket half full of dark yellow fluid, which coagulated at once and completely, was removed ; the growth was then drawn out, ligatured, and cut off with the knife. As hiemorrhage continued, the remaining portion in the uterine walls was enucleated, leaving a deep hollow, the size of the fist. This large cavity was closed by eighteen silk sutures passed through the peritoneal surface, and the hasmorrhage was arrested. The sutures were carried out of the abdominal wound, and a drainage tube passed through the retro-uterine pouch into the vagina ; the abdominal wound was then closed. The patient died suddenly on the 16th day, most probably from pulmonary embolism; no autopsy was permitted. The diagnosis of fibro-cystic tumour of the uterus by physical examination alone is almost impossible. They are generally taken for ovarian tumours, and their true nature is only discovered when ovariotomy is performed. The exploratory puncture is the only certain diagnostic test, as the character of the fluid, its rapid and complete coagulation, reveals its nature. Spiegelberg calls this operation “enucleation,” and bringing together with suture of the peritoneal covering of the cyst, and thinks it more favorable than the removing of a portion or the whole of the uterus. The author speaks very favorably of Sims’ system of vaginal drainage in ovariotomy. Uterine Cancer. Prof. Karl Schroeder (‘ Sitz. Ber. der Physic, Med. Soc. zu Erlan- gen,’ 1873) speaks of the advantage of applying an alcoholic solution of bromine (1 in 5) to cancerous disease of the uterus ; he first removes as much of the mass as is possible by scissors, the ecraseur &c., and then applies the actual cautery, pressing it deeply; when the eschar has come off, plugs of cotton-wool dipped in the alcoholic solution are pressed against the diseased part. Dr. Eouth read a paper before the British Medical Association, 1873, on the treatment of uterine cancer by gastric juice, and his attention was directed to this mode by two cases published in Italy. He first removes, when practicable, as much as possible of the growth by scoop, ecraseur, cautery, caustic, &c., and then dresses the raw surface with a piece of lint steeped in gastric juice; over this is placed a