466 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. acid ; it is then filtered, and the residue treated, again in the same way. The filtrates are concentrated, again filtered, evaporated to a syrupy consistence, and treated with freshly prepared barium hydrate. After addition of anhydrous baryta and powdered glass the whole is powdered in a mortar, shaken up with pure ether, and the filtrate treated with freshly prepared lead hydrate. By extracting with ether the alkaloid is obtained quite pure. Special information as to the testing for sola- nine, nicotine, and brucine is given. It. Schneider1 points out some extremely interesting colour reactions of the following alkaloids when treated with, concentrated sulphuric acid and sugar, care being taken to avoid charring of this latter sub- stance by the acid: morphine, codeine, aconitine, delphinine, chelery- thine, and chelidonine. We select the morphine reaction by way of illustration. If a few drops of concentrated sulphuric acid be placed on a porcelain slab, and a few hundredths of a grain of mixture of mor- phine with six or eight times its weight of sugar be added, the mixture speedily acquires a beautiful purplish-red colour, passing after some time into bluish violet, next into a dirty bluish green, and finally into a dirty yellow. The same play of colours may be hastened by carefully adding a trace of water to the mixture. The reaction succeeds with even i-6ooth grain of the alkaloid. To solutions of morphine salts the test is best applied by adding a drop of syrup, and bringing a drop of sulphuric acid near the mixture ; by then inclining the vessel, so as to permit the two solutions to intermingle, the play of colours will be seen at the edge of the drop. Codeine behaves in a similar manner. Morphine.—J. Guhl2 recommends a modification of Stass’s process for the separation of morphine from organic mixtures. The acid solu- tion is, as far as possible, deprived of colour by agitation with ether, and is then made alkaline with potassium bicarbonate. The mixture is then gently warmed to expel carbonic acid, cooled, and again shaken with ether as long as the decanted ether leaves a residue on evapora- tion. The ethereal solution is filtered, evaporated, and the residue washed several times with cold water, and then taken up by boiling alcohol. The filtered and evaporated alcoholic solution furnishes the alkaloid in the form of perfectly white prismatic crystals. The use of a bicarbonated instead of caustic alkali is stated to have the advantage of not imparting a colour to the solution. Hydrocyanic acid.—H. Struve,3 of Tiflis, has investigated the tests for hydrocyanic acid, with especial reference to the possibility of detect- ing the acid at periods long after death, and he has further experimented on the supposed fallacy attaching to Liebig’s sulphocyanate test from the presence of a sulphocyanate in the saliva, and hence possibly in the stomach, intestines, blood, &c. He finds that Schonbein’s guaiacum and sulphate of copper test is incomparably the most delicate, but that no reliance can be placed upon it, for a large number of bodies, belonging to no particular class of substances, produce the same blue coloration 1 £Pog. Ann.,’ cxlvii, p. 128. 2 ‘ Zeitscbr. f. Ana]. Ckem.,’ 1874, p. 3S°- 3 Ibid., 1873, p- 14-