71 CHOLERA. that in the dogs thus experimented upon there was an almost total absence of increased secretion of fluid from the mucous membrane, they divided the splanchnic and then the mesenteric nerves in order to see the effect on the secretion. Division of the former had none whatever. They found that “ this relation which the secretion of the small intes- tine bears to its nervous supply is strictly analogous to that which has long been known to hold good for the secretion of the submaxillary gland and its nervous supply: ” partial division of the intestinal nerves produces secretion, while total section lessens it. They believe there are filaments which promote and which prevent intestinal secretion. A Hogyes (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1873, 787) has made observations on the effect of fresh cholera-dejections on dogs, rabbits, and guinea-pigs. The matters were either given by mouth, injected into the jugular veins, or administered in such a way that the poison was taken up by the re- spiratory passages. He is led to the following conclusions:—Fresh cholera-dejections produce bad effects on animals, and in different ways on different animals, shown mainly in inflammatory changes in the stomach and intestinal tract. These changes are produced more readily in animals in whom a previous catarrh of' these organs has been arti- ficially set up. Inspiration of the poisonous particles has the same effect, though apparently not in cases in which the dejections have been disinfected with carbolic acid ; in the latter case the power of propa- gation seems to have been removed from the fungoid particles inhaled. Cholera-stools deprived of their formed elements may, by their chemical constituents alone, set up the same pathological changes. The assistant at these experiments, who had the opening of the vessels containing the cholera-stools, seems to have unconsciously added another to the list of observations, as he became subject to a severe intestinal catarrh, which he communicated to his young daughter; five days later two cases of cholera appeared in the house in which he lived, one of which proved fatal. During the microscopical portion of the observations Hogyes himself complained of loss of appetite, foul tongue, and a feeling of pressure at the epigastrium, symptoms which disappeared on the termi- nation of his researches. Wienkowsky (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1873, No. 43, p. 1027) findsthat permanganate of potash and solution of quinine destroy effectually the bacteria found in the stools of cholera. G-. Wolfhiigel (‘Arch. f. Exp. Path. u. Pharm.,’ i, 414) thinks that no good results can be obtained from these experiments on animals till it can be satisfactorily shown that they are in the same conditions and in the same way liable to cholera-poison as human subjects. His own observations, made during the epidemic of cholera in Munich in 1873, are decidedly opposed to any simultaneous affection of animals living in or about the houses of the sick. The injection of various fluids has been tried with success in the treatment of cholera. Stadthagen (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 433) injected 120 grm. of defibrinized blood into the median basilic vein with good result; in a second case it failed. Gr. Kalischer (Inaug. Diss Berlin, 1873, pp. 36) performed the same operation : success folfowed in one case and death in a second ; he reviews other cases of the same kind