409 PERI-UTERINE CONDITION. Peri-uterine Condition. Dr. E. Weber, from an analysis of 23 cases of retro-uterine hsematocele observed by bim, concludes that the condition occurs most frequen y in bard-worked young women disposed to anaemia. In 6 out 01 t e 23 cases immoderate sexual indulgence—partly known, partly conjecture —was the inciting cause, in 4 the immediate cause. 01 the disorder. The right ovary was the source of the haemorrhage m 10 cases. J-ie prognosis, as regards life, he considers very favorable, as none of ns cases were fatal. This result he ascribes to the method of treat- ment—ice bladder, perchloride of iron internally, and avoidance ot puncture. Ten cases were completely restored; in three the broken up extravasation burst into the rectum. _ (‘ Berlin Klin.Wochenschrift, Nov. 1873, and ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ May31, 1873.) Dr. Mariotti writes (‘Archiv. Gen. de Med.,’ 1873) on the pathogeny of retro-uterine hsematocele. Dr. Schroeder writes on the pathogeny of hsematocele, retro- and ante- uterine (‘Archiv f. Gynak.,’ v, 2, 1873)- He first runs over the various theoretical considerations which aetermine the situation of an intraperitoneal effusion of blood. He then describes in detail a case of ante-uterine hsematocele occurring in a woman who had tubal preg- nancy. Through the rupture of the sac an intraperitoneal effusion of blood followed, which filled Douglas’ pouch. Inflammation set in, which caused bands of adhesion to form between the rectum and the uterus. The haemorrhage recurred, and the blood collected in the anterior cul-de-sac, and coagulated there. This condition was recognised by vaginal examination. The patient sank under another effusion of blood, and the condition was verified at the autopsy. Dr. Eritseh writes on retro-uterine hsematocele (‘Sami.Klin.Yortrage,’ No. 36, 1873), and gives a resume of the subject. Haemorrhage from the ovary is a frequent cause of hsematocele; then tubal pregnancy and a congested condition of the Fallopian tubes; then haemorrhage from the uterus by reflux ; then peritoneal haemorrhage. Hsematocele is met with most frequently among the poor and those obliged to work ; it occurs between 21 and 47 years of' age; it is exceptionally met with in multiparse. The author considers puncture dangerous, unless the tumour has softened and suppuration has begun. Dr. A. Meadows read a paper on pelvic hsematocele before the Harveian Society. He deals chiefly with the symptoms and treatment. He limits the term to those cases where the blood is effused into the peritoneal cavity, using “thrombus” for those cases where the blood is effused into the cellular tissue beneath the peritoneum. After speaking of the prominent symptoms he points out the differential diagnosis from pelvic cellulitis and pelvic peritonitis. He dwells upon the necessity for a minute and careful examination, not only for diagnosis, but in reference to treatment. With regard to treatment the first thing is to obtain coagulation of the effused blood, which is best secured by rest and opium, at times ice applied within and without is of use • the next is to obtain the removal of the effused blood. He advocates a jnore speedy resort to tapping than that generally advocated, as in