UEPOIiT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Angus Macdonald read a paper before the Obstetrical Society of Edinburgh, July, 1874, on the nature and treatment of difficult occipito-posterior positions of the head. This paper was founded upon an analysis of twenty-six operative cases. The following are the chief points maintained:—1. In occipito-posterior positions, if these are per- sistent, we may safely assume that we have some pelvic peculiarity or disproportionately large head to deal with, and, as a general rule, all attempts at artificial rectification of the position of the head will prove abortive, and are even dangerous, if attempted to be effected by means ot levers, forceps, &c. 2. The only exception is when temporary delay is occasioned from accidental displacement of a small head. 3. In cases which threaten to end as “face to pubes,” and are at the same time decidedly difficult, it is best to pull the head through anteriorly and not to attempt rectification; care should be taken to guard the perinaeum. 4. In cases of obstructed occipito-posterior positions in which the rota- tion takes place at the outlet of the bony pelvis, while the head is grasped by the forceps, there is great danger of lacerating the soft parts; the blades ought to be removed and the uterus allowed to finish the expulsion of the head, or the curved forceps readjusted or a sharper pair applied. (‘Obstetrical Journal,’December, 1874.) Dr. Engelmann writes on prolapse of the umbilical cord (‘Amer. Journal of Obstetrics,’ Nov. 1873). He finds the proportion of cases in which this occurs in primiparae and multiparas out of nearly 6000 cases, is one prolapse to 108 parturient primiparae; in multiparae the ratio is 1 to 85. In vertex presentations, he believes the sacro-iliac fossae to be the spaces in which the funis most frequently finds room to descend; in foot, shoulder, or cross presentations, the prolapse usually takes place in that part of the pelvis to which the foetal insertion of the funis is directed. A full account is given of the post-mortem appearances of children who have died from a compression of the prolapsed cord. As regards prognosis, he finds that out of 204 cases of vertex presentation the life of the child was saved in only 76, being 3'6j per cent. The mortality among the face presentations is smaller, 4 out of 6 children being saved. In breech presentations only 4 out of 10 were saved. Eoot cases have been the most successful at his hospital. As a general rule a prolapse taking place in a primipara gives a much less favor- able prognosis for the child than in a multipara. In a clinical lecture on congenital hydrocephalus in relation to parturition (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’March, 1873), Depaul enume- rates the various difficulties which may occur in labours complicated with a hydrocephalic child and the treatment, he then mentions different methods by which the impediment is sometimes overcome. In breech cases, and when the body is born, traotion by pressing on the head may force the liquid under the scalp, owing to a separation in the track of the sutures or the fontanelles, or fracture of the bones; then all difficulty ceases, or the fluid may find its way into the cellular tissue of the neck or chest through some of the cervical vertebrae becoming disjointed and the fluid descending by the occipital foramen and the spinal canal escapes through the vertebral fissure.