REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. 486 epidemics in Eome of 1837, l8j4 to l8j>6> and of cases treated in recent years with the black sulphide of mercury (Ethiops mineral), is of opinion that this substance is the most valuable means we possess for the prophylaxis and cure of this disease. He considers it acts by destroying the contagious germs of cholera. As a prophylactic when the disease is likely to become epidemic, he recommends that 4 grains of the sulphide should be taken daily. When there is reason to fear that the system is already invaded he recommends that 24 grains should be taken at once and repeated if vomiting should occur, and that 12 grains should be taken every hour till the choleraic symptoms have entirely disappeared. Among the results claimed for this method of treatment it is stated that by this means the epidemic was checked in an Italian town in the month of June, 1867, at which time there was an immense concourse of religious pilgrims. He concludes by saying “ that the observation made at Eome on the best means for the pre- vention and cure of cholera demonstrate that we may at will let the plague spread, or combat it, or crush it at its commencement, by having recourse to the black sulphide of mercury, a remedy at once cheap and harmless.” Alkaloids.—Dr. M. J. Eossbach1 has investigated the general action of alkaloids upon the organic substratum of the animal body, and finds: 1. The alkaloids decrease the affinity of albumen for ozone. 2. At a temperature of 86°—104° Eahr. they cause, after the loss of its affinity for ozone, certain recognisable changes in albumen. 3. The alkaloids are able to precipitate egg-albumen from its solutions. 4. The diminution of the oxidisability of the protoplasm brought about by the alkaloids is determined on the one hand by the above described change in the albu- minates, and on the other hand by the firmer combination of ozone with haemoglobin. Influence of quinine and nitrate of potassium on the heart and tempera- ture.—Block2 finds that small doses of quinine quicken the pulse and at the same time lower the temperature; larger doses lower both pulse and temperature ; while toxic doses diminish the beats of the heart up to final stoppage. In regard to the relation between the pulse and temperature Block believes that the action of quinine on the heart and temperature are quite distinct and independent, and that the two phenomena do not stand in causal relation to each other. Nitrate of potassium resembles quinine in its action on the pulse and temperature. Small doses quicken the heart, a fact previously stated by Kemminch ; larger doses lower the temperature, and slow the heart. Experiments as to the influence of quinine in the febrile con- dition do not bear out the statements made by some that it acts more energetically m such condition than in the normal state. Quinine.—Binz3and Gfiitzloe4 have observed that quinine lessens the molecular movements of inorganic particles, such as Indian ink. Binz has also noticed that quinine hinders the decomposition of organic 1 ‘Schmidt’s .Talirb.,’ clx, p. 9. 2 < Centralbl. f. d. Med. Win./ No. 5, 1871. 3 ‘ Berl. Klin. Wochenschr./ 1871, pp. 556, 575. 4 ‘ Virchow and Hirsch’s Jaliresber./ 1871, p. 3S°-