212 REPORT ON SURGERY. below the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles is more li mited in its appli- cation, but less dangerous and more efficient. 3. That ligature of the external carotid above the diagastric and stylo-hyoid muscles is the most restricted in its application, but also safest and most effectual. 4. That ligature of the external carotid on both sides has hitherto been uniformly successful and is the most efficient measure at our command for arresting the distal circulation. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1873.) Haemorrhage from the internal carotid successfully treated by ligature. —Dr. M. B. Sands, in disarticulating the inferior maxilla, removed a portion of the external carotid artery. Both ends were tied and also a slit in the internal jugular vein. On the tenth day sudden haemorrhage occurred, as was proved, from the internal carotid artery. It was checked at once by an assistant who happened to be at hand, and controlled till a ligature was placed on the common carotid. Finally, a clean cut ul- ceration was detected in the internal carotid and this was tied above and below. The patient recovered. (‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1874 ; ‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1874.) Ligature of the external and internal carotids for haemorrhage of the face and necTc and into the mouth and fauces.—Dr. Stephen Smith has on two occasions ligatured the external and internal carotid arteries just above the bifurcation of the common carotid for haemorrhage from various points of the face and neck and into the mouth and fauces. In one case it was for cancer and in the other for gunshot injury. He thought to avoid renewal of the hsemorrhage better than by ligature of the common trunk. In neither case was there any return of the bleed- ing, the ligatures separated well, and the patients recovered, (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’April, 1874.) Ulceration of the internal carotid artery following necrosis of the lower jaw.—E. Schwartz relates in the ‘ Gazette des Hopitaux ’ for May 7, 1874, the case of a man, aged 61, who had necrosis of the right angle of the lower jaw, with profuse and very fetid suppuration. One day profuse hsemorrhage took place from the cavity ot the abscess, and was arrested by introducing a plug through the mouth ; the next day it returned, and caused death. At the 'post-mortem examination the in- ternal carotid artery was found to be exposed and infiltrated with ichorous pus; it presented anteriorly an oval aperture, a quarter of an inch long, about an inch and a half from the bifurcation of the common carotid. _ . Hemiplegia from softening of the brain after ligature of the. ex- ternal and internal carotids.—Dr. James Bussell writes on this subject, quoting cases recorded in the ‘ Medical Times and Gazette, March 14, April 4, 11, 25, May 2. _ 7 Traumatic aneurism of internal maxillary (?) treated successfully by liqature of the carotid—Mr. Bowker records the case of a, young man who had been stabbed in the neck and mouth a month before he came under care. In front of the left ear there was a.soft and obscurely pul- sating swelling, which also bulged inwards behind the last molar tooth and above and below the tonsil. It was manifestly a traumatic aneurism of a branch of the left internal carotid, probably a branch of the internal rillary. A fortnight later, haemorrhage occurred, but was stopped. maxi