420 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. were removed. This continued till all had passed. The patient re- covered. It is supposed that the uterus was anteverted before pregnancy, and that the adhesions not being able to be stretched by the increased size of the womb, predisposed to abortion. Dr. Cuthbert related to the Obst. Soc. of Edinburgh, April, 1874, a case of strangulation in utero leading to miscarriage. A patient miscarried at 3 \ months. The funis was coiled twice round the neck, and under the coiling it was tightly tied in a single knot. The part of the funis from the umbilicus to the neck was completely on the stretch, the part continuous with the foetal circulation was round and of a natural size, but the other part, viz. from the neck of the foetus to the placenta was small and cord-like. Dr. T. Gaillard Thomas relates (‘ American Quarterly Journ. of Med. Sc.,’ April, 1873) the case of a lady whose death resulted from the introduction of a wire 17^ inches long into the abdominal cavity, with the intention of bringing on abortion; the wire passed under the intestines and the liver, and punctured the right lung for two inches, causing pneumonia and abscess of the lung. Mr. Barwell read before the ltoyal Medical and Chirurgical Society, Oct. 1874, the notes of a case where a foreign body, a gum elastic catheter, had lain in the female pelvis for twenty months. This had been passed in to produce abortion and was left in one day, and when attempted to be removed only the ivory button was to be found, abscesses formed about the hip, for which Mr. Barwell was con- sulted. In the posterior cul-de-sac a line of induration was felt; the same was felt through the rectum; a small opening was discovered high up the bowel, it was dilated, and the finger passed in came upon the foreign body; it was removed; the patient recovered well. Dr. Aug. Inker writes on the clinical character and treatment of the hydatidiform mole (‘ Memorabilien, Jahrg.,’ xviii, 1). He has collected 33 cases, 3 of these were under his own observation, and the remaining cases are from English and German literature. In 9 cases the age is not given, 2 cases before 20, 18 between 20 and 30, 13 between 30 and 40 and 8 between 40 and 30, 1 beyond 30. Thirty-two times the hydatidiform mole occurred after labour. The more constant symptoms are vomiting, a marked loss of power, leucorrhoea, the discharge of a sero-purulent fluid with an offensive smell. Menorrhagia occurred 41 times. The development of the uterus did not correspond with the period of pregnancy 9 times, 8 times it was relatively too advanced. In 6 cases a foetus was present with the mole; in one case a twin pregnancy, in one case a placenta, and in one case a multiple preg- nancy. The weight of the mole varied from a halt to six pounds. In 8 cases death followed the expulsion of the mole, in 3 through haemorrhage, once through phlebitis, twice through metritis. The treatment when the hydatidiform mole is recognised is to empty the uterus, either by dilating when necessary and passing in the hands, or by the use of ergot. ... Dr. More Madden read a paper before the Dublin Obstetrical Society, Eeb. 1874, on mole pregnancy and the so-called uterine hydatids (‘ Obstetrical Journal,’ April, 1874).