MYOCARDITIS AND FATTY DEGENERATION. 167 muscular septa of the heart, with various degrees of atrophy and fatty degeneration of the muscle-fibres themselves. C H JVge publishes (ib., 64) eleven cases of the same kind, occur- ring in mentged 40, 4», 43 , 44, 55, 61,66, 69, and 85, and in women acred 28 and 30. In speaking of the disease generally, he asserts that to the naked eye it presents characters which are, to a great extent, uniform in different cases, although they vary considerably in different parts of the same specimen, according to the degree of completeness to which the change has advanced. It is always more or less localised, and sometimes attacks only a very small tract. Microscopically t le tissue is seen to consist of a perfectly developed fibrous tissue, forming wavy bands and fasciculi, which have embedded in them the heart s muscular fibres or their remains, having always the same direction as the old muscular fibres. The latter may be normal in appearance, or may have undergone more or less fatty degeneration. According to the writer fibroid disease of the heart is so constantly present in cases of cardiac aneurism as to justify him in expressing the opinion that the latter probably never occurs except as an accident in the course of the former affection. On the other hand, rupture of the heart, which is so common when there is local fatty degeneration of its muscle, appears very rarely to take place in fibroid disease. He thinks that the true pathological analogies of this process are those chronic changes in the arteries which are essentially inflammatory in their origin. ^ The paper concludes with some remarks on the causes and symptoms of this fibroid disease. Ponfick contributes (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 3), a paper on fatty degeneration of the heart. He distinguishes two chief groups of cases. The first includes those in which the fatty change is local and follows hypertrophy, due to obstructed circulation; for instance, as a conse- quence of various valvular affections, degeneration of the right heart in emphysema, chronic pneumonia, deformed thorax, &c.; degenera- tion of the left heart in cases of aortic contraction and sclerosis, aneurism, kidney affections, &c. His second group includes those cases in which the change attacks muscle antecedently normal; de- generation of the heart in acute diseases, or in consequence of certain poisons ; and lastly, the chronic form of true or idiopathic fatty heart, which is characterised by a change in the whole organ, and generally by separate centres of degeneration, which attack especially the papil- lary muscles. But even this last group, which clinically and anato- mically is true fatty heart, includes two essentially different forms. In illustration he gives two autopsies. The first is that of a strong, plethoric man, of 78, who died of apoplexy, from degenerated arteries ; the second is that of a very weak, but not emaciated woman, of 35, in whose body no changes, in addition to the fatty heart, were found except extreme amemia. These two types he names “ the senile or plethoric form,” and “ the anaemic form.” In both there is the fatty degeneration; in the one accompanied by changes in all the arteries and deposit of pigment in the muscle of the heart; in the other by vessels which may be narrow, but are otherwise normal, though they may have undergone those slight fatty changes in their inner or middle