309 REMOVAL OF BRONCHOCELE. bein" cut bv the ligature; while any attempt to. reach the bleeding mouths will usually be baulked by the infiltration by clot of tns cellular envelope. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,5 Sept. 1873.) Removal of a large Ironcliocele.—M. Holmes records the case. I ie patient was a woman, set. 63, who had suffered from bronchocele for forty years. Of late it had caused her great trouble by its large size. It had inflamed and burst, and discharged a quantity of pus. She was apparently sinking gradually. The tumour was surrounded by appro- priate incisions, flaps were dissected off, all large vessels that could be seen were divided between twro ligatures, and others tied at once. Its neck was surrounded with the chain of an ecraseur to check the hiemorrhage and the mass cut a\Vay with an amputating knife. It was necessary to leave a portion of the cyst behind. The tumour weighed a little over seven pounds after removal. The patient survived about thirty-nine hours. The author remarks that this operation hastened the patient’s death, and the chance of recovery was small, yet the danger to the patient’s life from the disease was sufficient to justify the admitted risks of the operation, seeing that no less dangerous method of treating the disease efficiently could be suggested. This case differs from others recorded in the motive for operation—suppuration caused by the bursting of the tumour, rather than pressure .011 the trachea, oesophagus or great vessels. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1873.) In the same number (p. 280) will be found a note of four other cases. Prof. Michel (‘ Gaz. ITebd.,’ Oct. 1873) removed a cystic bronchocele from a woman, set. 24. The trunks of the inferior thyroid veins and arteries were divided between ligatures, and the tumour then removed. The patient recovered. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1874.) A successful case in a boy, set. 7, occurred under the care of Mr. Jessop. The growth began four years previously. The tumour was about the size of a small hen’s egg and occupied the position of the right lobe of the thyroid. Its only apparent attachment was at the larynx. After an incision through the skin the growth protruded on pressure as by enucleation, except at its inner margin where a broad and deep attachment prevented its complete removal. A needle carrying a strong whipcord ligature was passed through the centre attachment, which proved to be the isthmus. This was tied in two portions. In the centre of the tumour was a cyst containing a dark-coloured fluid. (‘Lancet,’ Dec. 13, 1873.) Dr. P. H. Watson records a case in which the trachea was wounded. The tumour impeded respiration. The early steps of the operation were effected as usual; but on clearing the tumour from its attachments after ligature of the thyroid vessels, it was found to be laterally and anteriorly closely connected to the larynx and trachea. A venous trunk was wounded, but bleeding was readily checked by pressure. On attempting still further to clear the trachea an opening was acci- dentally made into its posterior surface. As the bleeding made its way into the air-passages, respiration became much impeded; the tumour was therefore rapidly detached and all bleeding permanently arrested by the application of ligatures to the open venous trunk. The patient