10J| lUSPORT ON MlDWIFEllY, El'C, and a living female child was delivered three minutes after the last breath nacl been drawn by the woman. Blumenfield reports (£ Wiener Medizin Wochenschr.,’March, 1873) a case of Caesarean section after death of a woman set. 36, who was seven months pregnant and sank from advanced phthisis. The incision was made seven minutes after death, and the operation lasted three minutes • the foetus, a female, lived three hours. Dr. C. Ruge related the following case at the Obstetrical Soc. of Berlin (£ Berl Klin. Wochenschr.,’ April, 1873). A patient act. 40 conceived m Nov. 1871. In September, 1872, labour pains set in, with haemorrhage from the vagina ; this soon ceased. The breasts became flaccid, and the patient very weak and ill. In October a foetal hand protruded from the bowel. She refused all operative interference ; she became feverish and _ died delirious. On section the left arm of the foetus protruded 2inches from the rectum. The uterus was pushed to. the right by a cyst containing the foetus. Two other communications with the caecum and sigmoid flexure were found. The left Fallopian tube opened into the cyst. Accidents during Labour. Rupture of the uterus.—Mr. Depaul communicates the following case. A ricketty woman had been delivered four years before by cephalotripsy; being pregnant it was determined to induce premature labour. The antero-post. diameter was 2^ inches. Tarnier’s intra-uterine dilator was introduced ; it brought on a few pains and then fell out. While pre- paring to pass a sponge tent, the woman got up off the bed and was suddenly seized with a severe pain in the upper part of the belly. She became blanched, and died in a few hours. The Caesarean section was performed; child born dead. At the autopsy the placenta was adherent closely to the uterine wall. At the upper and posterior part of the organ a small perforation. This had opened up a venous sinus, and from this about 6% lbs. of blood had poured into the abdominal cavity. The uterine tissue around the wound was thinned, and under the micro- scope presented a granular fatty degeneration. Dr. T. More Madden, in a paper on rupture of the uterus and vagina, after giving a table of the cases that have occurred at the Rotunda Hospital, Dublin, relates two cases which have been under his care. In the first the patient recovered, though the rent was so large that the whole hand could be passed into the abdominal cavity. In the second the patient died, the uterus having been completely separated from the vagina. (£ Obstetrical Journal,’ 1874.) Moldenhauer reports a case of rupture of the uterus occurring in a young woman who received a severe blow on the left side. She was seized with violent abdominal pains and severe general symptoms. On examination the os was fully dilated, the head low down and in the second position. As uterine action had completely stopped the forceps were used, and a macerated foetus was easily delivered. A large quantity of black blood followed. By following up the umbilical cord the finger passed into the peritoneal cavity, and from this the placenta was easily withdrawn. At the autopsy the anterior vaginal cul-de-sac was separated