287 EXCISIONS FOE GUNSHOT. useful joint. 8. A deterioration in the part, increasing with time, perhaps through progressive muscular atrophy, does not follow resection of the head of the humerus. The so-called quasi-paralytic condition (lahmungsartige Zustand) is nothing but a paralysis arising from, in- activity. 9. This paralysis from inaction may be yet overcome long after resection by appropriate treatment, and the power of using the limb may be restored. .Elbow-joint.—It is not always possible to ascertain at first whether recovery from an injury of the elbow-joint will take place without resection; it is often necessary to wait. In cases of extensive injury of the joint, no attempt at conservative treatment can be made, but re- section must be at once performed. Intermediate resections are attended with much danger. The usefulness of an arm when the elbow-joint is anchylosed at a favorable angle, is not so great as when a joint capable of active motion is obtained after resection. Langenbeck believes that the reproduction of bone in the epiphyses after opera- tion takes place in a manner analogous to the physiological growth of bones ; and as the growth of the upper epiphyses of the radius and ulna is less than that of the lower, and that of the lower epiphysis of the humerus less than that of the upper, there will be a smaller re- production of bone at the elbow, and hence as little as possible should be taken away. Eegeneration of bone may entirely fail even after complete subperiosteal resection. The after treatment is of the greatest importance as regards the ultimate result, and by careful management a very loose joint may be converted into one capable of active motion and perfectly useful. The use of electricity is of special value in such cases. "With regard to the method of operation, Langen- beck prefers Hiiter’s plan (a long incision on the radial side and a small one on the ulnar side) ; it is especially adapted for periosteal ex- cision, and has the advantage that the tendon of the triceps is not cut through longitudinally, as in Langenbeck’s method. Its disadvan- tages are the necessary division of the annular ligament of the radius, and the removal of too large a portion of this bone. Passive exercise of the joint must be made with great care, and not until the wound is healed. The limb must be constantly supported for a long time by a jointed apparatus. Wrist.—Of resection of this joint, Langenbeck has had but little ex- perience. Q-unshot fractures of the lower epiphyses of the radius and ulna and of the carpal bones, as well as those of the latter bones alone, call for primary resection. When there is simple perforation of the wrist and carpus, the surgeon may wait; if much swelling set in, and cannot be overcome by large incisions, resection must be performed; conservative treatment appears to be dangerous in cases of extensive injury. Partial primary resection may probably be followed by a successful result; but it must be remembered that a movable joint is to be expected only after removal of the ulnar epiphysis alone or of the carpal bones. Of the carpal bones, two (trapezium and the pisi- form bone), if intact, may be left, as their articulations are notin direct connection with the wrist-joint. The mortality after primary resection