382 HEP OUT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. slits in the outer nerve-sheath and in the sclerotic, as described, repre- sent means of communication between these spaces, and are lined with endothelial plates, justifies the opinion that they are to be regarded as serving for the passage of the lymph. The causes of certain forms of disease of the eye may be explained by the above facts, if the outflow from the lymph passages and spaces of the eye into the reservoir of the sub-dural space be obstructed on the one hand, and, on the other, if the communication of the spaces with one another be partly interfered with. Such affections, for instance, as the complication of certain forms of neuritis with choroiditis may be so explained. Possibly also the origin of myopia may be explained by the above facts in such cases as Kugel has noted. He observed myopia develop acutely after menin- gitis, and attributed the lengthening of the eyeball to the inability of the sclerotic to withstand the ordinary ocular pressure owing to changes which had taken place in it. (Gfraefe’s ‘Archif f. Ophth.,’ 18 13., Abth. x, p. 127.) The action of muscarin on the accommodation and the pupil.—Drs. Krenchel and Mulder give the results of experiments made in the physiological laboratory at Utrecht on the action of muscarin on the accommodation and the pupil. They fully support the assei’tions of Schmiedeberg and Koppe that muscarin causes a spasm of the accom- modation, which shows itself as a quickly increasing myopia, and dis- appears in from one to two and a half hours. This spasm of the accommodation begins after the application of the muscarin to the con- junctival sac in from five to ten minutes, and reaches its maximum in from fifteen to thirty minutes. The action upon the pupil is not uniform in proportion to the accommodative spasm, the contraction being great in some and small in others. Its entrance was somewhat later than the nearing of the far point, but increased regularly, and was at its maximum when the accommodative spasm had subsided, and only disappeared in from three to twenty-four hours. He therefore thinks that these two actions are independent of each other. In further proof of this, by using atropine and muscarin together in certain pro- portions, he could produce spasm of the accommodation with a dilated pupil. The pupil so acted upon by muscarin Dr. Krenchel has always found to act under the influence of light, which negatives the hypo- thesis of a spasmodic condition of the antagonistic muscles. He found in opposition to Schmiedeberg and Koppe’s statements that the relaxa- tion of the spasm of accommodation lasted nearly double the time that the production did, and that he could not entirely abolish accommoda- tion. In these two respects he finds muscarin and Calabar bean to agree. But the two differ in their action in that while Calabar bean acts most easily on the pupil, and only by greater doses on the accom- modation, muscarin acts most easily on the refraction, and with more difficulty on the pupil; and also that while Calabar bean causes in the first place an exalted capability of action, and only by stronger doses a true spasm of the ciliary muscle, the muscarin produces first the spasm and afterwards the exalted capability. As a supplement to the aboxe paper Dr. Krenchel gives the results of some experiments undertaken at Prof. Donders’ invitation to test the statements given out last year