8 EPILEPSY—HEMIPLEGIA—APiiASTA. 1L$ aphasia, without paralysis. He died three years later of some chronic lung affection, and after death the following appearances were found:— The brain-substance of the left temporal lobe, up to within 4 cm: behind the Sylvian fissure, was of a yellow ochre colour and soft. The same was the case with the lower part of the third left frontal convolution, the anterior portion of the left gyrus rectus (marginal convolution), and the most internal part of the middle left frontal convolution, as also some of the convolutions on the lower surface of the cerebellum. The convolutions of the operculum (temporo-sphenoidal lobe) were diminished by softening, leaving the island (of Beil) open to view. The softened parts showed under the microscope hsematoidin and nucleated cells, and sections of the hardened brain proved that the affection was limited to the cortical part of the brain. Bolet (‘ Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1873, 262) contributes the case of a man, ret. 60 (?), who had for twenty year3 right-sided hemiplegia and aphasia, with, as the autopsy revealed, lesion of the posterior lobe of the brain. V. Hanot publishes (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1874, 226) the case of a woman, tet. 41, affected with general paralysis, who after repeated apoplecti- form attacks became hemiplegic on the right side and aphasic, and at last died comatose. Ho points of haemorrhage or softening could be found in the brain, but the left frontal convolution presented profuse interstitial encephalitis. He remarks on the careful use of the thermometer in these cases. After the apoplectiform or epileptiform attacks of paralytics the temperature rises and remains elevated till death occurs; after haemorrhage or softening it sinks or remains sta- tionary, rising only before the fatal termination. After an excessive attack in a woman, in whom dilatation of the ureters was caused by the pressure of a sarcoma of the uterus, the temperature was low up to the moment of death. J. Lockhart Clarke records (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, i, 342) a case of epileptiform convulsions of the right side, with aphasia, in a man, aet. 74. Bor two years attacks of this nature had occurred at intervals of five or six months. The autopsy showed increased fluid under the arachnoid, and a small brain, the left side being much smaller than the right. The posterior half of the third frontal convo- lution, and the lower parts of the transverse (ascending) frontal and transverse (ascending) parietal convolutions, were very much wasted and depressed, so that the secondary gyri which run from them to the insula, and which normally are almost covered by them, were entirely exposed when the temporo-sphenoidal lobe was drawn aside. The arteries generally were atheromatous, the left ventricle thickened, the kidneys contracted, granular and cystic, and the liver small and some- what cirrhotic. T. G. Glover gives (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 96) the further progress of a case of aphasia (see ib., v, 53), with the post-mortem examination. About a week before his death the patient had a more than usually severe epileptiform fit, followed by decided paralysis of the right side of the lace and less complete of the right arm and leg, with severe convulsive movements of the left side of the body and face. The brachial and femoral arteries ol the left side were found plugged. Softening was