93 DIABETES. IClin.,’ 1873, 61), that the muscles as well as the liver have a share in the production of the sugar (cf. last ‘ Report, p. 72)- F. Hosier gives (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lviii, 44) a paper on the neuro- pathic origin of simple hydruria (diabetes insipidus) fiom epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis, injury, and syphilis. . In the first case, which followed an attack of cerebro-spinal meningitis in a boy aged seven years, he thinks that the local disease had probably produced some structural change in the fourth ventricle or its neighbourhood. In the second, a boy, set 17, it occurred as the result of a fall on the head. Here the probable cause was hemorrhage into the fourth ventricle, with rupture of the brain substance and a consequent cicatrix. The diabetes lasted fourteen years, and was treated, with great success, with large doses of acetate of lead. The third case was that of a man, aged 5°? whom the polyuria was the first symptom of syphilitic disease of the brain, and was followed by epileptiform convulsions. Anti-syphilitic treat- ment caused decrease of the diabetes, but later there was paralysis and aphasia and general marasmus. After death there was found extensive softening of the left hemisphere, the medulla, and the pons. F. 0. Kamnitz publishes (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiv, 447) the case of a girl, aged 17, who, becoming entangled in some machinery, sustained a fracture of the base of the skull, and afterwards suffered from diabetes, from which she subsequently recovered. The writer thinks that the injury to the head caused concussion of the brain and extravasation into the medulla oblongata, and that the latter was the cause, probably, of the diabetes. F. Kretschy (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1873, No. 3) gives two cases of diabetes in which, of many drugs and means of treatment used, morphia alone was found to be of real service. The patients were of the ages of 43 and 23, the first having been suffering a year, the latter three weeks (! Rep.). The drug was given in doses ranging from a fifth of a grain to about three grains daily, by gradual iucrease. C. H. Fagge relates (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xix, 173) a case of diabetic coma treated with partial success by the injection of a saline solution into the blood. The patient, a man, set. 38, lay comatose before the operation, with his eyes drawn up and half-closed lids; his pulse was scarcely perceptible; he could not speak, and could scarcely swallow. Five hours later he was quite conscious, sat up in bed, answered ques- tions and took his medicine, holding the glass in his own hands. The improvement lasted about twenty-four hours, when he suddenly died. Notes of the autopsy are added. The advisability of the operation was suggested by the idea that the coma was due to the drain of water from the system caused by the diabetes. F. Taylor (ib., 521) gives a casein which the same means was tried. The patient was a woman, mt. 22, whose condition at the time of the operation was one of coma combined with collapse. The result in this case was very much less satisfactory than in the former. For a short time the colour returned to her lips and cheeks, the pulse beat with fair force, and the temperature in the axilla rose from 95'2° to 967° F. • but the improvement was only temporary, and she died two hours after the operation. The autopsy, as in the former case, revealed no luno- complication. b