GtASiiS. 311 deposited from the moist air of sewers, though almost entirely absent as constituents of common atmospheric dust. . . fo) The addition of dry dust which has been exposed to a tropical heat to putrescible fluids, is followed by a rapid development of fungi and bacteria, although recognisable specimens of the latter are very rarely to be found in it when dry. . (io) Spores and other vegetable cells are. constantly present m atmospheric dust, and usually occur in considerable numbers; the majority of them are living and capable of growth and development; the amount of them present in the air appears to be independent of conditions of velocity and direction of wind, and their numbers are not diminished by moisture. (n) No connection can be traced between the number of bacteria, spores, &c., present in the air, and the occurrence of diarrhoea, dysentery, cholera, ague, or dengue ; nor between the presence or abundance of any special form or forms of cells and the prevalence of any of these diseases. (12) The amount of inorganic and amorphous particles and other debris suspended in the atmosphere is directly dependent on conditions of moisture and velocity of wind. Inhalation of gases and vapours.—Dr. Louis Hirt,1 in the second part of his work ‘ On the Diseases of Artisans,’ deals with morbid conditions caused by inhalations of gases and vapours. His work has been translated into French by M. Edward Swartz, and it is desirable that an English translation of such an elaborate work should be made for the use of English medical officers of health. In the case of dust inhalation Hirt distinguished two sequences —• sometimes the dust produced conditions similar to those which follow other causes ; some- times it gave rise to effects which no other cause can produce. For example, the dust of coal may either favour the production of a common catarrh or produce a special disease, anthracosis. With gases it is otherwise; they never cause a special affection, but only conditions common to them and to other causes. Sulphurous acid gas, for example, produces inflammation of the air-passages, but this inflammation has no special characters which would indicate its origin. Hirt classes gases and vapours together as being the same, medically speaking, though different physically; in each case (as in the dust inhalations) a number of foreign particles are breathed into the lungs which may injure the organs of respiration ; these effects, in the case of dust inhalation, are catarrh and consequent emphysema, inflamma- tion of the lungs and inflammatory phthisis (die entzundliche Lungen- schwindsucht). Some gases may also produce these effects, but other sequences also. The earlier chapters deal with the gases in their simpler form ; the effects of carbonic oxide; carbonic acid ; a mixture of the twoj with a little sulphuretted hydrogen, as in coal and charcoal fumes ; coal gas and sulphide of carbon need not be noticed except as regards one or two points. In speaking of carbonic oxide Hirt notices 1 Chiefly taken from the ‘Kept, of the Army Med. Depart, for 1872/ Appendix I p. 234, being a notice by Prof. Parkes of ' Die Krankheiteu d. Arbeiter/ erste Abt ’ aweiter Th. *’