REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. G6 necessary for its multiplication, and may again become active and in- crease indefinitely when these conditions prevail. 6. While liability to the disease, and its severity when contracted, depend to a certain extent upon age, sex, temperament, previous habits, and acclimation, they also depend to a great extent upon the degree of concentration of the poison—i. e. the larger the dose, the greater the probability of an attack, and the greater its severity. His observations were made during the epidemic of yellow fever in Governor’s Island, New York, in 1870, and his concluding remarks on treatment are those which naturally follow the assumption that the disease is due to a specific living germ, external to the human body, and setting up in the human system a specific infectious disease. J. Jones (‘Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,’lxxxix, 205) publishes the general results of his investigations upon the changes of tempera- ture and conditions of pulse in yellow fever. The maximum elevation is rapidly attained upon the first, second, and third days of the disease, ranging from 1020 to no0 B. in the axilla; as a general rule, from the third to the fifth day it steadily descends to the normal and even below it; in some fatal cases it rises again towards the end, rarely, however, reaching or exceeding, during the stage characterised by passive haemorrhages, black vomit, jaundice, and suppression of urine, 104° B. After the first stage of pyrexia, the temperature may be subject to slight elevations due to malarial fever, abscess, &c. The pulse at the commencement of the attack is rapid and full; its frequency does not correspond with the temperature oscillations, and in many cases the phenomenon is witnessed of progressive decrease of pulse-beats with a persistently high temperature ; on the other hand, it often increases in frequency, but diminishes in force, towards the fatal issue. A tabular statement of the variations of the pulse and temperature in 48 persons attacked with yellow fever establishes the fact that a tem- perature of 1060 was invariably followed by death, and also that jaundice, suppression of urine, and black vomit, are often accompanied by a slow pulse and but moderate elevation of temperature. The same writer gives (‘ New York Med. Bee.,’ 1873, 4x7) a tabular view of the pathological anatomy of yellow fever and malarial tever, for which, as unsuited for a short abstract, the reader is referred to the original, as also to “ The result of two post-mortem examinations, performed at the same time, side by side, in the same room, the one illustrating the pathological anatomy of Malarial Bever, and the other of Yellow Bever ” (‘ Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,’ lxxxix, 25). Accounts of different epidemics at Barcelona, Vera Cruz, Bermuda, and other places, may be found in the papers to which reference is made below. F. Haenisch, “ Das gelbe Fieber mit Beriicksicktigung eigenen an Bord S.M.S. Arcona 1870 in West-Indien gemachter Beobachtungen, ‘Deut. Arch., xi, 282. C. Heinemann, “ Berickt iiber die in Vera Cruz wahrend der letzen 6 Jabre beobachte- ten Krankkeiten,” ‘ Vircli. Arcli./ lviii, 161. J. Jones, “ General Conclusions as to the Nature of Yellow Fever, drawn from original investigations, ‘Now York Med. Journ./ xviii, 34. Id., “ Investigations on the Changes of the Blood in Yellow Fever, ib„ 440. Id., “Notes upon the Yellow Fever of 1873 in New Orleans/’ ‘ Boston Med. and Surg. Journ./ lxxxix. 543. T .G. Wilson, “ Extract from observations on the A ellow