462 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. rid of the poisoned blood. All reputed antidotes to the snake-venom were found to be valueless. The practical results of this investigation is that Dr. Eayrer1 has asked the Indian Government, in a Minute which he forwarded to the Secretary of State, to appoint a committee of the following gentlemen —Drs. Ewart and Anderson, and Mr. Vincent Eichards—to carry on a series of experiments with artificial respiration, which Dr. Eayrer lias strong reason to believe will be of great value in snake poisoning. Dr. Eayrer in this Minute states that since his return to London he has, in conjunction with Dr. Lauder Brunton, of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, been making further investigation into the subject of snake poisoning, especially with a view of ascertaining if there be any means ot saving life. Although he has not attained that desirable object, he is convinced of the importance of a thorough investigation into the matter being made. He has ascertained, by a long series of experi- ments, that none of the so-called antidotes possess the virtues or powers attributed to them; but in some experiments which he recently made he found that life may be prolonged for many hours by artificial respi- ration. In one experiment he kept the heart beating for nine hours after the development of the symptoms of impending death. The heart then failed only from imperfect respiration carried on in the cold. Eegarding the action of the poison, Dr. Eayrer thinks there is a strong analogy between the action of snake poison and that of curare, and this fact leads him to hope that artificial respiration may, if carefully and continuously sustained, save life. It is well known that an animal poisoned with curare may, after apparent death for many hours, be re- stored by artificial respiration and the application of warmth to the body. The poison is eliminated by the excreting organs, and the animal recovers. Curare acts by paralysing the peripheral distributories of the motor nerves, inducting asphyxia, by involving the muscles of respiration in the general paralysis. Cobra poison, Dr. Eayrer thinks, would appear to operate in this manner also, but he fears, though it is by no means certain, that the poison may in addition do irreparable injury to the nerve centres. It is almost impossible for Dr. Eayrer to carry out completely the necessary experiments, owing to the difficulty he ex- periences in obtaining snake poison. He is, therefore, led strongly to urge on the Indian Government the necessity of a thorough investiga- tion being made in India. Artificial respiration would, perhaps, have to be kept up for hours, or even days, and he suggests that it would be necessary to have some specially constructed apparatus which could be worked by steam. He recommends that his mode of treatment by artificial respiration and warmth should be tried in any cases of snake poisoning in human beings that may come under observation. He wishes distinctly to be understood to mean that the treatment he recommends is at present tentative and experimental, and that he does not recom- mend it as certain in its effects. The following are the details of the manner in which the investigations are to be conducted. Varying quantities of poison are to be hypodermically injected into dogs, &c., care being taken, for an obvious reason, to avoid large veins. When 1 ‘ The Times,’ May 2nd, 1873.