334 HEPOltT ON SURGERY. that an abscess had formed a communication with the upper part of the rectum and with the bladder. Colotomy was performed. Five days afterwards a very small piece of laecal matter was passed yer urethram with some pain. She recovered well. At the end of twelve months the patient was well and had no inconvenience about the bladder. The artificial anus gave no inconvenience. No urine had ever flowed into the bowel. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 128.) Vesico-intestinal fistula.—A case in a man, £et. 66, is recorded by Mr. "Wills Bichardson. For thirteen or fourteen years he had been liable to accumulations of faeces periodically, the results of thickening and narrowing of the descending colon. In August, 1871, a new symptom was noticed—a very tender tumour could be distinguished projecting above the brim of the true pelvis. Towards the end of September air was noticed to escape per urethram. The urine was examined, and evidence suggesting communication with intestine obtained (a figure is given). In October, faeces (fluid) passed with the urine. He died Nov. 25 ; no operation having been attempted. The post-mortem showed thickening of the lower fourth of the descending colon, which was about an inch in diameter. The sigmoid flexure seemed elongated, and formed a semi-solid, irregular-shaped tumour, about the size, and somewhat the shape, of a small beef kidney. The tumour on section, here and there, was semigelatinous, resembling fcetal brain in appear- ance. The remainder of the mass was more opaque and more solid, the whole resembling one of the forms of medullary cancer. The lower and anterior part of the tumour was adherent to the upper and back part of the bladder. An ulcerated circular opening, a quarter of an inch in diameter, had formed in the diseased wall of the gut, corresponding to the centre of the intestinal portion of the adhesion. This opening led to a funnelled passage of nearly an inch in length, which passed through the wall of the bladder, and terminated on its mucous surface by a hole that barely allowed a fine probe to pass (a figure is given). (‘Dublin Journal of Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1873.) Ovarian diseases.—An able essay (Hastings Prize Essay) by Mr. Lawson Tait, on the pathology and treatment of ovarian diseases, will be found in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 30, &c., 1874. Ovariotomy hy enucleation; recovery.—Dr. Samuel Logan records a case of ovarian disease in which he operated on Prof. Miner’s plan. The patient was a married woman, set. 42. The abdominal incision was long. The adhesions were carefully broken down and the mass turned out. It was found to be connected with the right broad ligament, by means of a pedicle about two inches broad, and about three quarters of an inch thick. It was quite long enough for clamping, but it was decided to “ enucleate.” Insinuating the index-finger through the middle of the pedicle where it joined the tumour, the operator succeeded with perfect ease in carefully peeling each portion, with its vessels, from the surface of the former, and in a very short time the whole mass was everted without the loss of half a drachm of blood, and the shreddy pedicle was dropped back into the abdomen. The parts were carelully sponged, the abdominal wall stitched with silk, Bichardson s styptic colloid applied, and the abdomen supported with strips ol strapping.