478 2 Ibid., p. 384. REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. points of ossification are subject to variations from such conditions as arrested or premature development. . tlie latest edition of Casper’s Handbook (Simon) it is stated that m the last mouth of foetal life no other long bone but the femur has a point of ossification. This Barkow shows to be an erroneous statement He has found, though in rare cases, an epiphyseal nucleus in the head of the humerus, along with an upper tibial epiphyseal nucleus in stillborn children apparently having reached the last week of gestation. In the majority of cases of new-born children in whom the points of the nails are developed, there is to be found in the upper epiphysis of the tibia a nucleus of i to i-| lines in diameter. The presence ot this nucleus only allows of the conclusion that the child was fully developed. Barkow thinks that the tibial nucleus should likewise be examined in medico-legal cases. The tibial nucleus may, however, be found in hemacephalic children quite incapable of maintaining life. To his former observations on this point Barkow adds several new cases. The supposition that no other long bone but the femur has an epi- physeal nucleus would, however, lead to the opinion, where a tibial nucleus was also found, that the child must have lived and breathed alter its birth. The author’s conclusions on the subject are: (i.) That the presence of the upper epiphyseal nucleus in the tibia only proves that the child had reached the full period, but not that it had lived after birth. (2.) The presence of a nucleus in the tibia, or even in the head of the humerus, does not prove that the child was in the condition to live and breathe after birth. (3.) The second proposition is especially borne out by the occurrence of the tibial nucleus in hemicranial monstrosities which are not viable. The author has never found the slightest evidence of respiration on applying the hydrostatic test to the lungs in such cases. Doubtful sex.—Tardieu,1 in a memoir on the medico-legal aspects of malformation of the sexual organs, relates an interesting case where the doubtful sex of an individual whose genital organs were not normally formed gave rise to considerable litigation. The individual in question had been married for more than two years, and it was only at the end of that time that the husband, though aware of the physical incapacity of his wife, brought a suit for nullity of marriage on the ground of her not being a woman. In the Trench law neither impotence nor sexual mal- formation in an individual really of the other sex, is a ground for divorce, but as marriage between two individuals of the same sex is null, the question was tried on the latter ground. The case proved to be one of enormous hypospadia, neither uterus nor ovaries being pre- sent. The first decision was against the validity of the marriage, but the wife appealed and the decision was reversed. On the third occasion Tardieu was consulted. On his opinion that the individual was really of the male sex, but the subject of malformation (hypospadia), the first decision was again confirmed. In a second paper2 Tardieu makes 1 ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ 1872, p. 179.