STRICTURE OE THE URETHRA. 317 (puncturing above the pubes) to relieve retention of urine. lie speaks well of tbe plan. (‘Lancet,’ June 6, 1874.) . . Retention of urine from impassable stricture relieved by ice in the rectum. Stricture treated hi/ caustic potash. Tbe patient was 4 > years of age, under tbe care of Mr. Teevan. No catheter could be passed.. Ice was inserted into tbe rectum, and in twenty minutes drops of urine passed. After a patient trial for two months of various methods of treatment, a wax bougie, slightly curved and armed with a small piece of caustic potash, was passed down to the stricture. No pain or bleeding followed. Five days later the application was repeated. Four days later a small olivary bougie was passed into the bladder, followed by larger ones. (‘Lancet,’ Feb. 7, 1874.) The treatment of stricture of the urethra.—Mr. Savory strongly urges the more systematic employment of rest in bed in the treatment of stricture, especially previous to the attempt to pass an instrument. Then a small catheter (silver by preference) having been introduced, it should be tied in for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and another (larger) one inserted for a similar period. If the instrument has to be removed too early, a smaller one should be inserted next time, and begin again. In most cases No. 6 or 8 can be inserted in a few days. If necessary, opium may be given to keep the patient quiet. If shiver- ing occurs, the catheter should be at once removed for a time. (‘ St. Barth. Hos. Rep.,’ ix, 122.) He discusses current views on the treatment of stricture. He thinks absolute rest more efficacious than the use of instruments. Without suggesting that the latter are never to be employed in the treatment of stricture, he affirms that they have been and still are grossly abused, that an untold amount of mischief is perpetrated by tbeir abuse ; that the routine employment of instruments in the treatment of stricture is in the highest degree unscientific and improper ; that, in a word, in tbe treatment of stricture, instruments of any kind should never be employed in any way except as a last resource. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 20, 1873.) In a clinical lecture on this subject, Mr. Annandale speaks favorably of the good effects of administering five or ten grains of quinine two or three hours before using an iustrument in connection with the urethra, in order to prevent rigors. Gradual dilatation he considers the best method of treating uncomplicated strictures. In stricture with .constantly recurring spasm or contraction, he recommends internal division with Gouley’s instrument. In complicated cases external division is suitable. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Dec. 12, 1874.) A case of stricture of the urethra with fistuke, in which Mr. Heath employed catheterism and continuous dilatation, and in which acute synovitis of a.joint occurred, is narrated in the ‘Lancet,’ May 2, 1874. The joint was aspirated successfully. Cases of stricture treated by Mr. Heath by forcible dilatation are recorded in the ‘ Lancet ’ for May 16, &c. Dr. Vanderveer records twenty cases variously treated. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci,,’ July, 1874.)