139 GROWTHS, PLEURISY, ETC. which lie followed up at a later period, finding the patient (ib., xv, 172) going on well after repeated small tappings some months before. This case gave rise to a discussion in the Society of Medical Sciences at Lyons (ib., 173). . Bowditch (‘Practitioner,’ 1873, April) has performed m 24 years 270 operations of thoracentesis without a single injurious result. He insists on the absolute harmlessness of the operation, neither disease, age, sex, nor pregnancy, contra-indicating it. F. Busch (‘ Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,’ xvi, 68) gives the following some- what unusual case:—A man, set. 35, swallowed on Nov. 30, 1872, a sharp piece of bone, which could not be found on repeated employment of the sound. But at any rate there must have been rapid perforation of the oesophagus and of the parietal portion of the right pleura, as on December 2nd there was pneumothorax on that side, followed by effusion reaching as high as the angle of the scapula. On the 7th paracentesis was performed, and the cavity washed out daily till Feb. 8,1872, when the patient was considered convalescent. The piece of bone was not found. Adelmann has collected three cases of an analogous kind, all fatal, and Busch, in recording a fourth, also fatal, insists on the necessity of early tapping. The right pleura was pierced by the foreign body more frequently than the left, and emphysema, one of the chief symptoms of rupture of the oesophagus from severe vomiting, was exceptional. Sargenti gives (‘ Gaz. Med. Lombard.,’ 1873, 177) a case of empyema in a man, set. 2^, with what he conceives to be abscess of the lung (!). The patient had had pleurisy of the left side, followed by empyema, for which he was tapped and two quarts of good pus removed. The same quantity was taken away two days later, a drainage tube left in subsequently, and the cavity washed out daily with solutions of perman- ganate of potash, carbolic acid, or nitrate of silver, the general condition of the patient being improved under tonics and good fare. Two months after the operation there were signs of pneumonia in the left lung; ten days afterwards the patient spat up a quantity of fetid pus, which came also, on coughing, through the tube. There was some slight tympanitic sound where there had been dulness anteriorly, coarse rhonchi, a blowing sound at the external opening, and the patient com- plained of tasting the carbolic acid injection. Five months after the fetid expectoration (opening of a bronchus into the pleura?—Rep.) the man was convalescent. Eisenlohr (‘ Berl. Klin. 'VYoch.,’ 1873, 473) gives the following case ■ A man, set. 30, suffering from phthisis, became the subject of pleuritic effusion on the right side. This was tapped, with the result later of a pneumothorax with purulent effusion and a fistula in the chest-wall. Seven weeks after the operation he was attacked with pleurisy in the left side. The heart’s dulness was replaced by tympanites, metallic tinkling, and a murmur of fluctuation synchronous with respiration. The heart’s impulse and dulness could be recognised only when the patient sat up. The dypsnoea increased, with symptoms of compression of the oesophagus, and the patient died in collapse aud delirium. Pyo- pneumo-pericarditis had been diagnosed, and was found at the autopsy Au opening existed between the right pleura and the cavity of the