410 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. many cases where the effusion is large a tedious convalescence is avoided. In some cases tapping is quite uncalled for, but in those cases where the quantity of effused blood is so great as to fill the whole pelvis and press the uterus against the symphysis, rendering micturition and defecation difficult, the greatest relief is obtained from tapping, and it is the only available remedy. He thinks that between these severe and the other slighter cases there are cases where the recovery of health is often hastened by an early resort to tapping. As to the period for tapping, if the symptoms are urgent the sooner the better, though a few days should elapse after the occurrence of the haemorrhage. When the symptoms are less urgent a month is not too long to wait. The punc- ture should be made through the rectum rather than through the vagina. The trocar should not be smaller than an ordinary silver female catheter, and should be pushed in from one to two inches (‘ Lancet,’ ii, 1873). A case of pelvic haematocele causing sudden death by the large quantity of blood poured out is reported (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 1874), occur- ring in a patient who was under treatment at the West Hiding Asylum for puerperal mania. The patient was convalescent; when getting up from her bed she cried out in pain, and fell back pale and faint; she never rallied. The effusion was intra-peritoneal, and 25 oz. of blood were removed at the autopsy. Dr. Dolbeau writes on retro-uterine haematocele (‘ Med. Times and Graz.,’ Feb. and March, 1873). He limits the term to a tumour formed by blood encysted in the peritoneal cavity of the pelvis. He thinks that under some influence such as that of a lymphangitis uteri or a disease of the ovary, a few drops of blood escape from the ovary on the Fallopian tube, and fall into the retro-uterine cul-de-sac ; this sets up chronic pelvic peritonitis and adhesions form well supplied with blood. Then from some excitation of the parts rupture of one of the vessels occurs and further hsemorrhage. This is supported by the clinical fact that a patient has usually had pain and malaise at several menstrual epochs preceding. Virchow expressed this theory in 1862, but Dolbeau claims priority. He is opposed to surgical interference. The death- rate after puncture has been 25 per cent., on those not treated surgically 10 per cent. Puncture may be necessary when the tension is very great or when pus has formed, but Dr. Dolbeau thinks the latter never occurs if the patient is kept quiet and properly attended to. Dr. Siredey writes on retro-uterine haematocele and its treatment (‘ Journal de Medecine et de Chirurgie,’ March, 1874). Prof. Spiegelberg, in a lecture on exudations around the female genital organs, after speaking of the history of the affections and the want of knowledge on the subject, attributes this ignorance to indistint anatomical ideas, and deficient knowledge of the relations of the serous layer to the genital organs and the pelvic connective tissue, and of the relation of the latter to the uterus and vagina. He then gives two draw- ings showing the relation of the peritoneum to the uterus, &c., and pom s out how two cavities are formed by the side of the uterus, one the pe vie peritoneal cavity, a part of the general peritoneal cavity, the other what liasbeen called the sub-peritoneal cavity,which contains the so-called pelvic connective tissue. This latter is of great importance from its containing