234 REPORT ON SURGERY. but uses a thread-carrier invented by himself. It is an aneurism needle somewhat elongated, curved more abruptly, and is manipulated in much the same manner. The bleeding vessel, with some of the tissue surrounding it, having been seized by means of a tenaculum and lifted well up, the needle with its thread is passed around and the thread hooked up, and drawn out of the eye and down through the anus by means of a hook; a knot is then to be made and pushed up as far as may be with the fingers and completed with some appropriate instrument. With A. L. Carroll’s contrivance it can be done at any depth as readily and as securely as with the fingers. It consists of long slender forceps, the ends opposite the handles curving outwards and furnished with hooks opening outwards. Each thread passes through a hook, and, when the handles are pressed together, the hooks are separated, and the knot (previously tied) is tightened as much as may be desirable. Where many points bleed, ice (or a mixture of pounded ice and salt) may be pushed up in a bladder to the requisite height. A pair of uterine forceps or long artery forceps might be used for any very troublesome bleeding point and left hanging on for some time. After an operation the author suggests the insertion of a wire frame or speculum for a few hours; this would allow of any bleeding being readily detected, and of the rectum being washed out with a constant stream of iced water, which is better than retaining lumps of ice. The in- strument must be of peculiar construction, or it may be injurious in two ways : first, by provoking contraction of the sphincter and thus induc- ing tenesmus ; and, secondly, if the wires are too widely separated, the wounded parts may catch between them and thus pain, and even hemorrhage, be caused by the withdrawal of the instrument. The instrument is four inches in length and one inch in diameter at the largest part. The wires should be as small as is consistent with requisite strength and only one eighth of an inch apart. They should converge at the distal end, so as to give it a conical form and be capped by polished steel. The neck (to be embraced by the external sphincter) is half an inchin diameter, and one inch in length. There are two loops of wire at the external orifice, one above and one below, for tapes to be attached to a band around the hips, to prevent the rectum from ejecting it. A figure of the instrument is given. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1873O The winged screw tourniquet— Surgeon-Major A. Moffit describes and fio-ures a screw tourniquet with wings attached to the upper plate (of Petit’s tourniquet). The wings expand to six and a half inches. The bottom of the screw is attached to a small square plate, which again is attached to the pad by four screws, the strap being permanently fixed under the plate. The pad is quadrangular and of wood, half an inch thick, two inches long and one and a half broad, and slightly concave on its under surface. The tourniquet is portable, simple, has good compress- ing power is steady, and does not constrict the limb. When folded upb ft forms a package three inches and three quarters m length, two inches broad, and an inch and three quarters m depth There is a double shortening of the strap at each side, and in this way the requisite amount of pressure is rapidly reached. The old screw tour-