333 LATENT GONORRHOEA. either abort, or only bear one child. _ Exceptionally, three or four children are born. In the secretions of patients suffering from latent gonorrhoea a fungus may be produced which is closely analogous to that found in the fresh gonorrhoeal secretion of men. Eight out of every ten men have had gonorrhoea. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ., January, Dr. A. MacDonald takes up the subject in the June number of the same journal (p. 1086). He quotes from Dr. Noeggerath ■“ I have undertaken to show that the wife of every husband who, at any time of his life before marriage has contracted a gonorrhoea, with very few exceptions, is affected with latent gonorrhoea, which, sooner or later, brings its ex- istence into view through some one of the forms of disease about to be described. The reason why this fact has not hitherto been brought into discussion in a thorough manner is founded upon several circumstances. In the first place, we physicians have hitherto believed that a gonorrhoea in a man, after it has once ceased to present any signs of its existence, such as occasional moistness of stickiness of the urethral opening, itching in the urethra, or pain on micturition, is actually cured. This is not the fact in the majority of cases, and I believe I do not go too far when I assert that of every hundred wives who get married to husbands who have previously had gonorrhoea scarcely ten remain healthy ; the rest suffer from one or other of the diseases which it is the task of this paper to describe, and of the ten that remain spared we can with cer- tainty affirm that in the one or the other of them, through some accidental cause, the hitherto hidden mischief will, sooner of later, come to an explosion.” The diseases mentioned are acute perimetritis, oophoritis, and catarrh of the genital passages. These he affirms to be practically iucui-able. The women are not only miserable and liable to increased risk of death, but they are, as a rule, sterile. Dr. MacDonald does not accept his statement in regard to sterility, but he thinks that there may be much truth in what he says as regards the diseases from which many married women suffer. He believes in the curability of gonor- rhoea. He says that from the narratives of his own cases it is sufficiently evident that gonorrhoea in a merely subacute, if not even in an exceed- ingly chronic and apparently cured, that is, latent form in the husbaud, and one which, in the female, produces symptoms siinply of a slight leucorrhoea differing in general appearance little, if at all, from ordinary leucorrhoea, may prove a complication fraught with extreme danger to the female, and, in the puerperal stage, one likely to lead to a dan- gerous and even fatal form of puerperal fever. He says we ought to be a very great deal more guarded in giving our permission of marriage to young men who have within a short period contracted a gonorrhoea, or who suffer from agleety discharge. If a man marry with the slightest shade of a gleet he exposes his wife to the possible risk of "’great misery throughout her menstrual life, as well as to great risk of death in case she becomes pregnant. Recto-vesical fistula in the female treated successfully by colotomy. Mr. Heath details the case of a lady, mt. 41, who had constant pain in the bladder and difficulty in micturition, and suffered great annoyance from the constant passage of flatus by the urethra. The diagnosis was