438 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Concly’s fluid these coagula were gradually broken down and removed, and the unfavorable symptoms soon disappeared. Mr.W.P. Swain relates two cases of post-partum haemorrhage treated by the injection of perchloride of iron ; both cases were successful (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874.) Dr. Brierley (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 1873) details two cases in which he obtained good results and speedy contraction of the uterus by injecting subcutaneously 10 minims of a solution of ergotine (3 grains of the extract). In one case this was tried after the injection of a solution of perchloride of iron (1-4). Dr. P. 0. Williams, of Baltimore, strongly recommends the hypo- dermic injection of the fluid extract of ergot in post-partum haemorrhage. He relates three cases of severe flooding in which the uterus contracted firmly, and remained so after 30 minims had been injected; he has seen no abscess result. The solid extract dissolved in water, 1 grain to a minim, is to be preferred to the fluid extract. Dr. Aveling reports a case in which he transfused lamb’s blood into a patient who was dying from what appeared to be loss of blood from the bladder. The patient sank soon after the operation was performed. (‘Obst. Journ.,’ July, 1874). Dr. Lombe Atthill read a paper before the Dublin Obst. Soc. on the use of the perchloride of iron in post-partum haemorrhage. He relates $ cases in his own practice in which it was used with good result; one case died of peritonitis on the 15th day. He thinks that cases of post- partum haemorrhage occur in which the injection of the perchloride or of some other styptic is alone able to arrest the haemorrhage; that the tendency to pyaemia, septicaemia, or peritonitis is not necessarily increased by the injection ; the treatment is especially applicable to anaemic patients. Dr. Hill Bingland at the same meeting read a paper upon the treat- ment of post-partum haemorrhage by the application of the solid per- chloride of iron to the interior of the uterus. This he had done in 23 cases; 14 recovered well, 3 had tedious recoveries, and 6 died; two of these latter died, one within two hours, and the other within three hours after delivery, and this could not be said to be due to the employment of the iron. Dr. B. C. Mackintosh relates a case of post-partum haemorrhage in which galvanism was successfully used after all other remedies had been tried (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1873). Dr. Hey wood Smith brought before the Obstetrical Society of London a case illustrating the treatment of post-partum haemorrhage by the intra-uterine injection of perchloride of iron. A patient on the third day after her delivery complained of pain in the hypogastrium. On the tenth day haemorrhage occurred ; on the nth day, as haemorrhage con- tinued, a solution of one pint of strong liq. ferri-perchloridi to 8 of water was injected. On the 16th day, the bleeding continuing, the injection was repeated; on the 18th day the uterus was again injected with iron 1 in 4, and again on the 20th day with equal parts of the solution of iron and water. On the 21st day a strong solution of iron was injected into the uterus with an intra-uterine syringe holding two