32G REPORT ON SURGERY. A piece of box-wood, of convenient size, is first pushed between the prepuce and the upper surface of the glans as far as the corona glandis; the prepuce is then perforated by an exploring trocar from within outwards above the corona; and a platinum wire is passed through the' canula, which is then removed. The penis being held by an assistant, the two ends of the platinum wire are connected with the galvanic apparatus, and the prepuce is cut through (the wire being at a red heat) from behind forwards. There is no haemorrhage; and healing is complete in three to five weeks. Treatment of scrotal and perineal hypospadias.—M. S. Duplay in a paper read before the Surgical Society of Paris in January, 1874, and published in the ‘Archives Generates de Medecine’ for May and June, describes three cases of hypospadias on which he had operated. They were all cases of complete perineal hypospadias. The penis was closely attached against the scrotum, cleft in the middle line. The glans had at its summit a notch representing the urinary meatus; and its base was united by a bridle of skin to the abnormal opening of the urethra, which was situated at the posterior part of the scrotum, nearly in the perinseum. To remedy this condition, generally regarded as incurable, M. Duplay proposes an operation from which good results may be expected, but which requires time and patience. There are two indica- tions to be fulfilled : (1) To set free the penis from its attachments, so that it can be raised towards the abdomen ; (2) to construct a new canal from the abnormal opening of the urethra to the extremity of the glans. To fulfil the first indication, M. Duplay divides transversely the band which unites the glans to the scrotum, cutting through layer after layer as far as the envelope of the corpora cavernosa. The result is a lozenge-shaped wound, which is united by a few points of suture. This proceeding has been already practised and described by M. Bouisson, of Montpellier. In the second part of the treatment, it is especially necessary—and this, M. Duplay says, is a point to which surgeons have not attended—to operate by successive stages, and first to form the new canal on the upper aspect of the penis, allowing the abnormal opening of the urethra to remain, so as to keep the new canal free from contact with urine, an almost fatal cause of destruction of union and of sloughing ; then, when the canal is completely joined, to connect the two portions of the urethra by closing the scrotal fistula. First stage ; restoration of the meatus.—The two lips of the notch representing the meatus are pared at the lower part, and, the end of a probe being introduced, the pared edges are united over it by one or two points of twisted suture. Second stage ; formation of a new canal.—Two longitudinal incisions are made on the inferior aspect of the penis, and are met at their extremities by two small transverse incisions. Thus two quadrilateral flaps are formed, reaching from the glans to about one fifth of an inch from the abnormal opening of the urethra. They are dissected up from without inwards, and raised towards the middle line so as to completely cover a sound of convenient size previously introduced through the newly formed meatus. Their cutaneous surface thus represents the