236 REPORT ON SURGERY. Thrombosis; thromballosis.—Mr. Prescott Ilewett directs attention to the frequency with which it occurs spontaneously. In some cases it was connected with fever; typhoid or smallpox. He has been inclined to attribute the clotting in some of the cases to a gouty condition, described by Sir James Paget as gouty phlebitis. Most of the patients were beyond forty years of age, and had more or less definite gouty symptoms. With two exceptions all the cases of blocked veins occurred in the lower extremities. In one, a brachial vein was affected, and in the other both axillary veins. In most, the clotting spread with the current of blood, but in a few the contrary occurred. They were all tedious. He has met with blocking of veins in the corpus cavernosum penis in patches. (£ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 1873.) Thrombosis of the arteries of the extremities.—Dr. Lidell writes on this subject. It is most frequently met with in connection with the so- called spontaneous gangrene of the aged. Cases are detailed and com- ments made on them. In some cases the thrombosis begins in the small distal arteries and sometimes in the main artery of the limb. In some cases the thrombosis is secondary to plugging by an embolus. The several diseases in connection with whichit has been found to occur are—1. Puerperal gangrene. 2. Rheumatic gangrene. 3. Ulcerative endocarditis. 4. Asiatic cholera. 5. Pleuro-pneumonia. 6. Typhus. 7. Constitutional syphilis. 8. Inflammation of the parts surrounding large arteries and veins. The coagulum may, by its presence, and acting as a foreign body, cause the surrounding arterial tissues to become inflamed. The majority of the cases noted of thrombosis primarily attacking the large arteries of the extremities have occurred in young or middle-aged people. The aged are also subject. 'Throm- bosis of the peripheral or systemic arteries is sometimes met with in young children. Arterial thrombosis sometimes gives rise to remark- able forms of ulceration. Sometimes it occasions merely a low degree of inflammatory action. The agencies concerned in its production are— 1. Increased coagulability of the blood. 2. Atheromatous and cal- careous degeneration of the arterial walls. 3. Peeble heart action. 4. The lodgment of embolia in the arterial canals. Inflammation of the coats of the arteries plays an insignificant part in the production of thrombosis. It is more frequent in the lower extremity because the arteries are here much more liable to suffer from atheromatous and calcareous degeneration; and (2) the arteries of the lower extremity are much further off from the central organ of the circulation than those of the upper extremity. The phenomena resulting from thrombosis of the arteries of the extremities vary according to the size of the obstructed vessel and the extent of the coagulum itself. When the minute arteries are the primary seat of the coagulation, two distinct types are presented. In one of these a brown spot forms (say) on one toe ; it soon becomes black and gradually spreads until the whole toe becomes completely dry. In favorable cases a line of separation forms and the part falls off. In another series of cases the disease begins with symptoms of inflammation, oedema, discoloration, &c. moist, hot gangrene. Septicmmia more frequently occurs than in the process of mp.mmifi.ca/tion, "VVhen the main artery of the limb is the primary