18 ItEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. movements of mastication alone and the taste of tartaric acid considerably augmented the flow of saliva. Sugar, on the contrary, had little effect. v. Ebner1 describes a series of small glands at the back^of the tongue in man and various animals. They resemble Brunner s glands, and secrete a fluid which contains no mucin. He proposes to call them serous glands. (xiannuzzi, Saviotti and others, have described certain fine plexuses and radiating canals, investing the pancreatic alveoli and secreting cells, but Latschenberger," whose views are accepted by Brucke,3 considers that they only represent lines of injection that have penetrated in the axis of the tubules of the glands and that they are, therefore, artificial. The view generally accepted of the mode in which the gastric secretion takes place is that it is excited by a stimulus either of a mechanical or of a chemical nature. In opposition to this Braun4 * states that his experiments led him to the belief that the gastric juice, like the urine, is secreted continuously. He experimented on dogs in which he had made gastric fistulae. Through these, various irritating sub- stances, as sponges, the vanes of feathers, stones, alkalies, and pieces of meat, were introduced, but he found that no variations occurred in the amount poured forth. The alkaline saliva of dogs and men had no greater influence, nor did there appear to be any relation between the amount of alkali excreted in the saliva and of acid in the gastric juice, for neither did the irritation of the salivary gland have any influence on the secretion of gastric juice, nor, when this last was excited to flow, was there any change in the amount or characters of the saliva. Braun opposes the hypothesis of Schiff, that pepsin is produced from peculiar so-called peptogenous organs in the stomach, since even in fasting animals whose salivary ducts are divided a not inconsiderable quantity of gastric juice can be obtained. He is much rather disposed to agree with Spallanzani that the pepsin and acid are continuously excreted. The mucous membrane of the empty stomach is only rarely covered with a tenacious mucus, but much more frequently with a fluid that usually has an acid reaction. The gastric juice, like the urine, is secreted in large quantities wThen water is injected into the femoral vein, and this is not a simple case of transudation, but the fluid exhibits an acid reaction and digests albuminous substances. At the same time it was often requisite, in order to give the fluid a digestive power, to add some hydrochloric acid to it, which Braun associates with the observa- tion of Manassein, that the acid of the gastric juice is deficient in acutely anmmic animals. Bohrig6 has investigated the effects of various conditions upon the secretion of bile. In animals under the influence of woorara there was a progressive diminution in the amount of bile discharged, whilst its concentration augmented. Compression of the vena portas, with or 1 Pamphlet, 1874. 2 ‘Wiener Akad. Sitzungsbericbt,’ 1872, Baud lxv, p. 195. a ‘Vorlesungen liber Physiologie,’1874, p. 325. 4 ‘Eckhard’s Beitriige zur Anatomie u. Physiologie,’ B. vii, p. 27.. 6 Bohrig, “ Experimentelle Untersuchungen liber die Physiologie der Gallenah* sonderung,” in ‘Strieker’s Med. Jabrbuclicr,’ 1873, p. 241.