251 FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS. power over his bladder. He became restless and threw his limbs about, and died on the fourth day while struggling. > At the post-mortem a dislocation of the second from the third cervical vertebra was found. Mr. Erichsen remarks on the great rarity of the case, ihere were no head symptoms nor any general paralysis. The dislocation was un- complicated with fracture. Stress is laid on the absence or any hyper- sesthetic line as showing dislocation rather than fracture, because the broken sharp edges irritate the spinal nerves. jFractures of the vertebral column ivith injury to the spinal cord.—mx. Ilulke details cases and remarks on them in a clinical lecture. (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’Eeb. 14 and 28, 1874.) He records a very interest- ing case of recovery after fracture of the dorsal spine. Dislocations of the first and second pieces of the sternum. Mr. Bivington writes on this subject. He details cases, quotes authors on the causation of these injuries, and enters minutely into the anatomy of the joint between the manubrium and the gladiolus, following more especially M. Maisonneuve. Out of 100 specimens he has himself examined, 51 showed an amphiarthrodial, 3 2 a diarthrodial, and n an intermediate variety of joint, and 6 had undergone ossification. Of the amphiarthrodial, 26 occurred in adult males ; 17 in adult females ; 4 in boys, and 4 in girls. Of the diarthrodial, 22 in adult males ; 9 in adult females, and 1 in a boy. Of the ossified ones. 4 were taken from adult males (set. 30, 36, 53, and 65) ; 2 from adult females (set. 73 and 76). Of the “intermediate” joints, 9 occurred in adult males, and 2 in females. The following summary is given: 1. The frequent presence of an arthrodial joint between the manubrium and the gladio- lus favours the occurrence of displacement in preference to fracture. In other words, the ligamentous fibres keeping the ends of the manu- brium and gladiolus in contact are generally weaker than the weakest part of the bone. Whenever the contrary is the case, fracture will occur in preference to dislocation. 2. Separation of the manubrium and the gladiolus may occur from forcible flexion of the dorsal spine, and is most likely to occur when one or more of the dorsal vertebrae is crushed or fractured. Eracture may result from the same cause. 3. Separation of the manubrium and the gladiolus may occur from forcible extension of the dorsal spine, as, for instance, from falls or blows on the back, or muscular action. Eracture may also occur from this cause. 4. Both in flexion and extension of the spine, the sternum is acted on through tire ribs, and the greater length and leverage of the lower ribs causes the gladiolus to be thrust forwards in front of the manubrium. 5. Many cases of fracture or dislocation attributed to direct muscular action or to counterstroke were due to the leverage of the ribs brought into action by violence applied to the back. 6. Frac- ture of the sternum, but scarcely dislocation, might be occasioned by violent descent of the chin on to the sternum, and this might occur in injuries to the cervical portion of the spine. 7. The anatomy of the joint between the manubrium and the gladiolus explains several cir- cumstances noted in pathological specimens, such as the presence of a distinct layer of cartilage covering the ends of each segment, the adhesion of the second costal cartilages to the manubrium, the rupture