284 REPORT ON SURGERY. the metatarsal bones and dorsal soft parts to protect the latter from injury by the teeth of the saw cutting from below upwards. After the operation and before the renewal of the tourniquet, the entire wound was plugged firmly and securely by means of pledgets of lint passed through and through the gap in the foot, and laid in closely one upon the back of the other so as completely to fill up the aperture, and at the same time so closely crowded together as to secure, when pressure was applied from the outside by other pads supported by a bandage, that no bleeding should take place. This dressing was re- tained in situ for forty-eight hours. When removed there was no bleeding. The same mode of dressing was continued for six weeks. Gutta-percha splints supported the sides and the sole of the foot. The opening did not close for three months. At the end of six months the boy could walk well. Four years after the operation he walked without defect. Since that time five other cases have been operated on. In one the same thorough dressing was not applied, and the wound did not heal well all over. Amputation (Syme’s) was performed and it was then found that the parts were in a fair way to heal well. The neglect of dressing was probably the only cause of want of thorough success. The four other cases did very well. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1874.) Excision of the shoulder-joint.—Dr. Maelaren records a case in which he removed the head and upper part of the humerus (three and a half inches in all) from a child six years old, with an excellent result. The disease followed injury. There were several sinuses. The periosteum was saved, and two and a half inches of bone were reproduced. A portrait is given. (‘ Lancet,’ June 7, 1873.) Sir J. Hose Cormack records a successful case of excision of the shoulder-joint for gunshot. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 5> ^874.) Necrosis of humerus.—Dr. Donovan records a case, in a lad, aet. 15, in which he removed the head and shaft of the humerus (not the lower extremity) for necrosis twelve months after the commencement of the affection. The patient did well. The bone removed is figured. (‘ Lancet,’ July 18, 1874.) Excision of the extremity of the humerus in cases of anchylosis of the elbow-joint resulting from injury.—Dr. P. H. Watson describes a new form of operation in anchylosis of the elbow. His object is to save the triceps and other muscles as far as possible. In these cases it is the humerus alone which is affected, at any rate with very few excep- tions, and to remove the upper extremity of the ulna weakens the muscular attachments unnecessarily. The operation consists in the following steps:—(1) A linear incision to be made over the ulnar nerve to the inner side of the olecranon, rather longer than that usually em- ployed in the ordinary excision of the elbow by linear incision. (2) The ulnar nerve to be turned over the internal condyle by careful dissec- tion. (3) A probe-pointed bistoury to be introduced into the elbow- joint in front of the humerus, and then behind that bone and carried upwards, so as to divide the upper capsular attachments in front and behind. (4) A pair of bone foreceps to be next employed to cut oft the eptire inner condyle and trochlea pt the humerus, and then intioducet.