313 REPORT ON SURGERY. a postscript he gives an abstract of a paper by Dr. Parry (‘ Phil. Mecl. Times,’ Juno 14, 1873) on abscess ofthelarynx in young children. Two cases are recorded. After two days in the first, slight fluctuation was detected and an incision let out pus and gave relief. The second child died without any operation. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1873.) Primary scirrhus cancer of the larynx ; tracheotomy; relief; death.— Mr. E. J. Cook records the case. (‘ Lancet,’ Sept. 19, 1874.) Plum-stone lodged in left bronchus ; tracheotomy; expulsion; recovery, —The patient was a girl, set. 9, under the care of Mr. Marcus Beck.' (‘Lancet,’ Dec. 5, 1874.) Foreign body in the bronchus with obscure symptoms.—A child aged two years was admitted into St. George’s Hospital who had just before swallowed a piece of tobacco-pipe stem. No special symptoms were pre- sent. The next day there was dyspnoea, but air entered both lungs freely. The voice was natural. Tracheotomy was performed about sixty hours after the accident, and a probe passed down to try and detect a foreign body. None could be found. The child died a week later. A piece of tobacco-pipe stem, about an inch in length, was lodged in the commencement of the right bronchus, so that its upper end rested on the left side of the trachea, at a spot which was ulcerated. (‘ Lancet,’ June 14, 1873.) Scald of the glottis.—Dr. Corley records the case of a child who re- covered from a condition deemed too bad for tracheotomy to be advisable, under the administration of calomel, &c. In seventeen hours, 24 grains of calomel, 6 drachms of mercurial ointment, £ of a grain of tartar emetic, and the application of Bix leeches, were used. (‘ Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1874.) Tracheotomy by the galvanic cautery.—Krishaber related at a meeting of the Surgical Society of Paris on November 26, 1873, two cases in which he had performed tracheotomy by the galvanic cautery ; both were cases of growths in thelarynx in adults. The galvano-caustic knife was heated to a dark red colour, and the tissues were slowly divided, layer after layer ; arterial haemorrhage, however, occurred during the opera- tion. In one case it was arrested by cauterising with the instrument, but was followed after some hours by severe secondary haemorrhage ; in the other case it was very severe during the operation, and was only arrested by grasping the bleeding part en masse with forceps. Krishaber referred also to five cases in the practice of Verneuil and of Burdon, in one of which ligature was required on account of the haemorrhage. Tracheotomy by the actual cautery.—M. de Saint Germain performed tracheotomy in the following manner on a child three years old, the subject of croup. The situation of the cricothyroid membrane having been ascertained by the finger, the thyroid cartilage was fixed with one hand, and with the other a red-hot probe-pointed bistoury was intro- duced at the lower edge of the cartilage, the cutting edge being directed downwards, until the absence of resistance showed that the point had entered the larynx. The cricoid cartilage and the first ring of the trachea were now cut through. There was no haemorrhage; and the