202 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tated. The patient died soon after the operation, and numerous nodules, of different sizes, agreeing microscopically with the original growth, were found in the lungs. The same microscopical appearances were found also in a thrombus in the femoral vein of the affected side, and embolic patches of the same character plugged several small vessels in the lungs. In the second case the tumour was removed after exist- ing for twenty-five years in the neck. The cell-growth found tho writer refers to a proliferation of the cells of the capillary endothelium (endothelioma). C. J. Eberth (“ Ueber die embolische Verbreitung der Melanosar-. home,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lviii, 58) gives a case illustrating the extension of tumours by means of embolism. After sketching the outlines of some recorded cases, he gives the history and autopsy of a patient who since boyhood had suffered from “ inflamed eyes.” Later the left eye was removed, for melano-sarcoma, originating probably in the choroid. About a year and a half after this he had symptoms of tumour in the liver and great emaciation, and died in two months’ time. The autopsy showed extreme enlargement of the liver due to melano- sarcoma, pigmented cells of which were present in recent clots in the portal and splenic veins, in the glomeruli and capillaries of the kidneys, as well as about the original seat of mischief. Acker, “ Zur Patkologie der Gesckwulst-Metastasen,” Leipzig, 1873, pp. 37. F. Steudener, “Beitrsige zur Onkologie ” (with plate), ‘Virck. Arch./lix, 413. Grawitz, “ Zwei seltene Gesclwulstfalle nebst Beobacktungen uber die Contractilitiit von Geschwulstzellen,” Berlin, 1873. Wendt, “Ueber ein Endotheliales Cbolesteatom des Tromruelfells nebst Bemerkuugen zur Histologie der Eigenschicht,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiv, 551. Langhans, “Zur pathologischen Histologie der WeiblichenBrustdrusc,” ‘ Vircb. Arch.,’ lviii, 132. Stick, “ Beitrag zur Lebre von den Gesckwiilsten,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 557. Meyer, “Ein neues Yerfaliren behufs Yerkleinerung von Driisengescwulsten durch den electrischen Strom.,” ib. 1874, in. Moxon, “ On the Pathological Nature of Tumours,” ‘Guy’s Hosp. Bep.,’ xviii, 247. S. Wilks, “The Pathology of Cancer,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, i, 573. Savory, “ Observations on the Structure of Tumours, in relation to their Character and Clinical History,” ib., 1874, ii, 761. Glioma. T. Simon (“Das Spinnenzellen- und Pinselzellen-gliom,” ‘ Virck. Arch.,’ lxi, 90) describes two tumours, the first of which, the size of a fist, was seated in one cerebral hemisphere, the second in the left ven- tricle. Both consisted of cells without any recognisable intercellular substance, the cells themselves being peculiarly shaped. In the first case they were three times the size of white blood-corpuscles, con- tained nuclei with two nucleoli, and had on all sides processes (“ spider cells ”) resembling fine fibrillae with a remarkably dark, sharp, wavy outline, unbrancked, and sometimes twisted sharply on themselves. The processes of the several cells were interlaced with one another, and gave the resemblance of a fibrillar intercellular substance. The cells in the second tumour were not precisely similar. Some were round with several large round nuclei and many nucleoli, and short processes on all sides, so far resembling serrated and ridged cells, others were almost triangular, with well-marked outline, and countless fane fibrillse attached along the base. The apex of the triangle was pro-