467 MURDER. on paper steeped successively in tincture of guaiacum and a solution of sulphate of copper. Among these are the salts of ammonia. Next in order of delicacy comes the sulphocyanate test. It is vastly more delicate than the Prussian blue reaction, which indeed often fails when the quantity of poison present is minute. Struve failed to obtain any reaction with ferric chloride after distillation of the acidulated normal viscera, blood, <fec., and hence the supposed fallacy attaching to this test already referred is of no importance. He recommends acidu- lation of the suspected matters with tartaric acid, and distillation. The distillate is to be divided into two portions ; one is to be treated with ammonia, evaporated, acidulated, and touched with a solution of ferric chloride. The other portion of the fluid is to be mixed with a drop of ammonium sulphide and a little caustic potash, evaporated, and then treated with ferric chloride as in the other case. If no colouration be produced in the first case, whilst a red colour is produced in the second, the presence of hydrocyanic acid may be averred with certainty. The object of adding caustic potash before evaporation is to convert any sulphocyanate which may be formed into a potash salt, a fixed substance, whilst ammonium sulphocyanate is slightly volatile in the water-bath. Struve failed to find formic acid among the products of the putrefac- tion of muscular tissue mixed with potassium cyanide. Potassium cyanide.—In order to detect this substance when mixed with double non-poisonous cyanides (as e.g. potassium ferrocyanide), E. Jacquemin1 dilutes the liquid with water, macerates, filters, neutralises the filtrate with sodium carbonate, boils with sodium hyposulphite, cools, acidulates slightly with hydrochloric acid, and adds ferric chloride, which gives, if a poisonous cyanide be present, the character- istic blood-red coloration due to the formation of ferric sulphocyanate. Another method recommended is to boil with picric acid, when the characteristic coloration of potassium isopurpurate is produced. A third mode is to place the liquid in a close vessel, and pass a current of carbonic acid through it. The issuing gas is tested for hydrocyanic acid.. Carbonic acid liberates hydrocyanic acid from the potassium cyanides, but not from the double cyanides. Murder. Murder in its medical aspects.—At the annual conversazione, in 1874, of the West Riding of Yorkshire Lunatic Asylum, Dr. Bucknill gave a remarkable address on the law of murder in its medical aspects 2 which is well worthy of perusal by all jurists and medical men. The materials collected by the Parliamentary Committee of 1873 for an amended Bill on homicide contain the following matters of interest to the medical profession: (1) the definition of murder and man- slaughter ; (a) the difficulty ot proving infanticide, and the suggested alteration of the law relating to this; (3) the responsibility of sur- fns°anit013eratmg Wlttl0ut consent °f a patient; and (4) the plea of J * ' ‘ Comp. Rend.,’ lxxix, p. 1499. ‘ 13r. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, ii, p. 667 ; ‘Lond. Med. Eec.,’ ii, p. 769.