4 ‘Jouru. de Pharm. et de Clin.,’ 1875* P- 23' REPOET ON MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Bond., E.R.C.P. New Remedies. Jaborancli.—This new remedy, a native of Brazil, of doubtful botanical origin, has been tested and reported on by M. Robin,1 by Drs. Ringer and Glould,3 by Mr. Martindale,3 and by Prof. Baillon. Robin states that when a dose of infusion corresponding to one dram of the drug is administered to an adult, the excretion of urine speedly diminishes in amount, but this disappears next day. The urea, chlorides, and uric acid diminish on the day of administration, then increase slightly in amount, and then fall to the normal. Urea is found in the sweat and saliva in notable quantities, but not uric acid. In Bright’s disease the influence of the drug on the excretion of albumen was doubtful. Jaborandi produced intense diaphoresis, with simul- taneous increase of pulse and temperature. The sweating was followed by lowering of the pulse and temperature. Spbygmograpbic tracings of the pulse were taken at various periods after administration of the drug. There was a great diminution of arterial tension during the atao-e of diaphoresis. As this was accompanied by asystolia, M. Robin is ol opinion that jaborandi exerts a special paralysing action on the vaso-motor nerves ; and that the cardiac asystolia and abundant secre- tion of sweat and saliva are due to this cause. In small doses jaborandi acted neither as a diaphoretic nor as a sialo- gogue, but as a diuretic. M. Glubler, on whose patients the drug was tried, thinks that it exerts a special irritant influence on the renal cells. It*is asserted by Prof. Baillon that jaborandi is composed of the leaves and twigs of Pilocarpus peniatifolis, a pultaceous plant. It was first brought to France by Dr. Continho, of Pernambuco. Drs. Ringer and Gould fully confirm the statements made by Dr. Con- 1 ‘ Bull. Gen. de Ther./ Nov. 30, 1874. 2 ‘Practitioner,’ xiii, p. 387. 3 ‘ Pharm. Jouru.,’ 1874, p. 365.