BLOODLESS SUKGE11Y. occupied in separating the adhesions. No blood was lost, but on loosening the india-rubber constriction for a moment, blood escaped from about fifty muscular twigs. (‘ G-azzetta Medica Italiana-Lombardia/ No. 23, 1873.) Prof. P. Muller, of Wurzburg (‘ Wiener Med. Presse,’ No. 8, 1874) suggests bandaging of the limbs as a means of supplying blood to the heart and brain in some severe cases of haemorrhage. W. Jefremoff, of St. Petersburg (Inaugural Dissertation, 1874,^ * Centralblatt fur Chirurgie,’ No. 23, 1874), has made a number of experiments on dogs and horses with Esmarch’s apparatus. He found that to produce complete ischaemia the constriction must be applied with a force of five pounds in dogs, and of sixteen pounds in horses. A series of experiments were performed on six dogs, to ascertain whether bandaging of the limb in cases of phlegmonous inflammation is attended with risk of general infection. Inflammation was excited by the sub- cutaneous injection of turpentine, and, after three or four days, the limb, which had become inflamed and swollen with suppuration, was bandaged from the toes upwards and amputated. Of the six dogs, one died, the others recovered after going through a severe attack of traumatic fever. Hence, Jefremoff concludes that ordinary inflamma- tion is not a contra-indication to the employment of Esmarch’s method. In a second series of experiments, gangrene was produced by the tight application of a bandage above the ankle-joint. After five or six days the limb was bandaged from the toes upwards, and amputation was performed above the line of demarcation. Of six dogs treated in this way, five died of septicaemia, one recovered; but in this animal the experiment was not conclusive, as the bandage used for producing gangrene had cut through the upper part as far as the bone, and hence the gangrenous masses were not carried into the sound parts. The conclusion is that the application of the bandage to a limb which is the seat of putrid deposit is not permissible. In order to determine the time during which an elastic bandage might remain applied with- out injury, Jefremoff made a series of experiments, from which he proved that in dogs the compression could be borne for periods varying from two to eight hours. During the application of the bandage, the animal gave signs of much pain, but this gradually ceased, and the limb lost sensation and became cold. The sudden removal of the bandage was always painful, while its gradual removal was more easily borne. When a limb remained bandaged several hours, great hyperaemia ensued on the removal of the bandage ; if the application was continued for a long time (more than five hours) it was followed by inflammatory swelling, probably dependent on exhaustion. Dr. Clementini, in a letter to the ‘Lancet,’ Jan. 3, 1874, vindicates the claims of Dr. Grandesso-Silvestri of Vicenza (1871) and Prof. Vanzetti of Padua (1873) to the merit of having introduced and practised the plan of bloodless surgery. Mr. Bryant publishes a series of clinical lectures on bloodless opera- ting and bloodless operations as illustrated by the use of the galvanic cautery. After speaking favorably of Esmarch’s plan and giving the history of other attempts at removal of blood from a limb before 18