463 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Mr. I itzjames Stephen gave it as his opinion before the Parliamentary Committee that there are three natural divisions of the subject of homi- cide : it is murder if you intend to kill the person or if you intend to do the person grievous bodily harm, but it is manslaughter only if you do not intend to do grievous, but only ordinary bodily harm. On this Dr. Bucknill remarks—“ This distinction between grievous bodily harm and bodily harm which is not grievous is a question which is invariably left to the jury, and, as such, is one of common sense rather than of law, although it is obvious that it is also one in which common sense must frequently be in need of medical guidance. The last kind of homicide is when proper care is not taken, or skill employed, and death is caused in that way.” It thus appears that the old definition of murder, that it is killing with malice aforethought, is obsolete, so far as the premeditation is con- cerned, and that the old terminology is now merely an illegal handle for advocates and a loophole for juries. Dr. Bucknill is of opinion that malice, or some term implying bad intention, must be preserved; but that the condition that the homicide must be aforethought, already extinct in practice, ought to be abolished as misleading. Constructive malice.—As an instance of this the author quotes an instance which in the legal, but not in the popular, sense should have been murder. The Fenians, intending to rescue Dasent and Belly, fired shots at the police-van, and killed a policeman. Dasent was in one of the compartments of the van, and it was afterwards found that the shot had gone through that compartment, penetrated the wood, and gone out at the other side; and if Dasent had been standing upright it would have gone into his head and killed him. Here a murder would have been committed without malice towards the person killed. The Fenian outrage in Clerkenwell furnished a striking instance of murder without intention to kill. A man Barrett exploded a barrel of gun- powder against the wall of a prison with the intention of making a breach in the wall through which the prisoner Burke might be rescued. The explosion killed a number of poor people outside the prison against whom Burke doubtless had no malice. As to homicide by a drunken man, Dr. Bucknill remarks that we must allow that delirium tremens is not a frequent cause of homicidal violence. This statement is contrary to the popular non-medical im- pression. But the delirium from drink, which commonly results in homicidal violence, is delirium a potu, to which men who have suffered from injuries to the head, or from sunstroke, are peculiarly liable——a frantic kind of drunkenness, often following the use of small quantities of stimulants. This is a really dangerous form of delirium from drink which has never been recognised by the lawyers. Mr. Stephen would make one form of homicide to be murder which may be designated “ murder without injury to the person.” It may be illustrated thus. Suppose a woman is ill, that her husband.wishes to murder her, and the doctor says to him, she is in a very critical state; she has gone to sleep, and if she is suddenly disturbed, she will die, and you must keep her quiet! The husband goes to her room, ma es a noise, and wakes her up with a sudden start, and frightens her; an