473 SIGNS OT1 DEATH. blood from those caused by the blood of auy of the animals just enumerated. In examining spots of blood Dr. Richardson advises that fragments should be scraped from the edges or thinnest parts of the stain ; because specimens from the central portions sometimes exhibit numer- ous fibrin filaments which have appeared before the desiccation of the drop, and these interfere with the investigation of the corpuscles. These fragments are to be broken up into a fine dust, with a sharp knife upon a slide, and covered with a film of extra thin glass. A few drops of the ordinary three quarter of i per cent, (sic) common salt solution are then successively introduced at one margin of the cover, and removed from the opposite edge, as they penetrate thither, by a little slip of blotting-paper, thus washing away the colouring matter from the tiny masses of dried clot. When these particles are nearly decolorised, a drop of aniline solution or of dilute iodine in potassium iodide solution is allowed to flow beneath the cover, and, after remaining about half a minute, is in its turn washed away, and its place supplied by a further portion of weak salt solution. F. Selmi1 finds that the difficulty of obtaining haemin crystals is largely due to the non-employment of the most favorable temperature, which he finds to be 750 to 8o° in summer and ioo° in winter. He also finds that the strength of the solution of sodium chloride in acetic acid used for the production of the crystals should be one fourth of satu- ration. When the blood is mixed with clay no crystals can be obtained by the usual method on account of the absorbing action of clay. If, however, the clay is treated with soda, and the latter neutralised with hydrochloric acid, evaporated to dryness, and the residue dissolved in acetic acid, the crystals readily appear. Signs of death. Dr. Liersch2 gives an excellent and graphic de- scription of the changes which the human eye undergoes after death ; and on this account alone his memoir will well repay perusal. But he also proposes a new test to distinguish between a living body and a dead corpse. The contraction of the pupil after emptying of the aque- ous humour through a puncture made in the cornea is an organic and not simply a mechanical action, and is hence of great and real value in a thanatological point of view as a means of diagnosis between life and death. Ihis thesis is well supported by physiological arguments. The above operation is a very simple one, and is unattended with danger should life be still existent. The advantage of such a test in cases where rigor mortis aud the more marked signs of death cannot be employed is obvious. Such cases are those of poisoning by the irrespir- able gases, apparent or real death from the inhalation of fumes of burning charcoal, poisoning by narcotics, &c. Magnus^ recommends the following method for ascertaining whether life is extinct or not. If some part, such as a finger, is tightly bound by a ligature even when life is at its lowest ebb,' there is observed at the point of ligature a white circle due to arterial amemia, while the 2 ‘ vfnChiD!: i!f P- 583; ‘Journ. of Cliem. Soc.’ [2], xi, p. 1,67. , Vrtljhrsschr. f. Gerich. Med./ xiii, p. 248. ‘Virchow’s Archiv/ lv, p. 511.