3S8 itKport on Midwifery, etc. vagina is single, conception, gestation and parturition are possible, and are usually attended with no particular disturbance, {cl) The uterus unicornis consists of one horn only; the other, the arrested horn, being attached to it, or absent. It is a long cylindrical, spindle-shaped body curved to its corresponding side and terminating in the Fallopian tube, to which a normal ovary is attached ; the cervix is very small. Preg- nancy may occur and terminate normally. The accessory horn may be impregnated through the migration of an ovum, if so it ends in rupture. Hasmatometra occurs when one of the mouths of an uterus duplexis imperforate and menstruation goes on in that half; and hsema- tocolpos occurs in bipartite vagina if atresia of one of the openings is present. ITaematometra in uterus bicornis, with a rudimentary horn, has not as yet been described either anatomically or in the living subject. The lowest grade at which defective blending of Muller’s ducts can arise are the membranous bands occasionally met with in the dome of the vagina, more rarely in the cervix alone, in the middle of the vagina under the name of a duplicate hymen, and more frequently as hymen bifenestratus. Atresia vulvse seu labialis consists either in adhesion of the posterior two thirds of the labia majora or of a genuine lengthening of the perinaeum. It is as a rule very difficult to diagnose the above-named condition of the uterus, at times it is im- possible. (‘Wiener. Medez. Wochenschr.,’ Sept. 5 and 12, 1874, and ‘Loud. Med. Record,’ Nov. 18, 1874.) Prof. Breisky relates in detail (‘Arch, fur G-ynak.,’ vi, i, 1873) a case of hydrometra lateralis as the result of congenital closure of a rudimentary vagina with double uterus. Dr. Otto Braus reports a case of pyometra and pyokolpos the result of atresia of a rudimentary vagina in uterus bicornis (‘ Berl. Klin. Wochnschr.,’ xi, 11, 1874). Dr. Mann exhibited to the Obstetrical Society of New York a speci- men of an uterus bicornis duplex and vagina septa, from an otherwise entirely well-formed nine months’ foetus. The cornua of the uterus are very distinct and widely separated. The depression in the centre of the fundus is well marked, and the whole uterine, cervical and vaginal canal divided into two equal halves by a firm septum. Dr. Moldenhauer gives in detail (‘Archiv fur Gyrnik.,’ vii, 1, 1874) a case of pregnancy in a one-horned uterus. A woman, set. 29, was delivered of her first child, the placenta did.not foUow; attempts were made to remove it without success ; the patient died ol diffused peritonitis. At the autopsy the bladder and vagina were found normal; the uterus was enlarged; there was no trace of the uterine appendage on the right side ; the upper part of the uterus was expanded into a sac, in which was an aperture, the cause of the peritonitis.. The uterine app^nda^es on the left side showed traces of old inflammation; the tube was bent and its canal impermeable ; the ovary was covered with small cysts and no recent corpus luteum was seen; on the right side the lio-ament of the ovary and the tube were wanting, but in a fold of the peritoneum,near the external os,a well-developed ovary was found with a recent corpus luteum, and nearer the middle line a quite solid body which, on microscopical examination, was found to be a rudimentary uterine