278 REPORT ON SURGERY. made to save it. The stump on this side bore firm pressure first. At the end of some time, the leg on which the periosteum had been saved was one inch longer than the other, and the extremity of the stump was harder and more rounded, resembling that resulting from a Pirogoff. (‘ Lancet,’ May 9, 1874.) Subastragalar amputation.—In a case of smashed foot, Mr. Wagstaffe performed subastragalar amputation with an excellent result. An incision was made over the neck of the astragalus along the inner side to the front of the heel, then backwards in the median line, then round below the external malleolus to the point first started from. The foot was forcibly inverted and dissection carried at first from above and outside, then from behind. (£ Med. Times and Graz.,’ Aug. 23, 1874.) Avulsion of the arm with the scapula ; recovery.—Dr. E. Katholitzky, of Eossitz, in Moravia, relates the case of a man, set. 37, whose right arm and scapula were torn away by being caught in a water barrel which was being drawn up a shaft by steam power. The limb was found in the water at the bottom of the shaft 113 days afterwards. Dr. Katholitzky saw the patient an hour and a half after the accident. The wound was about twelve inches long and nine wide, and bled but little. There was no haemorrhage from the subclavian or any other arteries, and their ends could not be found in the wound. There was consider- able shock. The wound was reduced by means of steel clamps to the size of a hand, and was covered with charpie. Six hours after the injury, violent pain set in, but was relieved by subcutaneous injections of morphia. The wound was dressed with iced compresses. During the following days there was sloughing of portions of tissue, with moderately high fever. Nothing further of importance occurred dur- ing the healing of the wound, which was complete at the end of the seventh week. Two years and five months afterwards the patient was in good health, but right-sided scoliosis had developed itself. (‘ Allgemeine Wiener Med. Zeitung,’ No. 43, 1873.) Primary amputation of the upper extremity, including scapula and outer half of clavicle; entrance of air into subclavian vein; recovery.—A lad, aet. 14, came under the care of Mr. Jessop for severe injury to the upper extremity, with loss of skin, &c. It was necessary to remove the scapula, and in doing this air was heard to enter the subclavian vein. The lad was suffering from extreme shock at the time, and was almost dead. Ten days after the operation he was allowed to get up, and at the end of three weeks the wound was healed. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 3, 1874.) _ # . . Excision of the scapula.—Michel describes a case of excision of the scapula in the ‘ Gazette Hebdomadaire ’ for 1874, No. 27. The patient was a man, set. jjo, who came under treatment on account of a tumour of the right shoulder-blade, which was diagnosed to be a cystic degeneration of the bone arising from hyperplasia of the medullary substance, together with a tendency to production of y oung connective tissue The diseased bone was entirely removed, the surrounding muscular structure being preserved, and recovery was so complete that the arm became capable of being used lor almost any kind of wor '; there was, however, some difficulty in raising it. This satisfactory