67 YELLOW FEVER—CHOLERA. Fever Epidemic at Bermuda in 1864” (microscopic appearances of black vomit), ‘Lancet,’ 1S73, ii, 626. “Yellow Fever at Shreveport, Louisiana, ^ib. ib., 724. . Milroy, ‘ Epidemiological (Yellow Fever) Memoranda from Jamaica, ib. 1874,^1. 214. 0. Saint-Vel, “De quelques Analogies entre le Cholera et la Fievre jaune, Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1873, 651. Cholera. The development and spread of cholera were discussed at the Inter- national Sanitary Conference which held its sittings at Vienna m July, 1874 (‘Wien. Med. Ztung.,’ 1874, 227). The general conclusions, by no means new, were as follow:—That cholera is developed spon- taneously only in India, is not endemic in Europe, and epidemics ot the disease in Europe have their origin in the former country. That the affection is spread by human intercourse, by articles of ordinary use, clothes, &c., from infected places, by dead bodies, and possibly by rood and living animals; never by the atmosphere alone. The question oi the period of incubation gave rise to a long discussion, the majority agreeing that it was very short, barely exceeding a few days. Though no means are certainly known by which the cholera germs may be rendered less infectious, the access of fresh air and general disinfecting agents were recognised as most important. R. Eorster (‘Die Verbreitung der Cholera durch die Brunnen,’ Bres- lau, 1873, pp. 28) insists on the view that cholera is spread almost exclu- sively by drinking-water, into which the specific ferment has passed by means of sewers, &c. His instances are based on the occurrence of the disease in twelve small towns in Silesia and Posen. The fortress of Glogau seems to be his strongest point. Here the town is divided into two parts by the Oder; the smaller portion, on the right bank, was attacked by cholera in 1866, and per cent, of the population died. That on the other bank, though ten times larger, and possessing in the neighbourhood a barrack in which the Austrian prisoners were affected with the disease, escaped almost entirely. The former part of the town got its drinking-water from local springs, the latter received its supply from without. Other towns mentioned, though they do not seem to have had means of conducting water from beyond their limits, had springs rising deeply from the rocks, into which there was no drainage. J. G-. Schlimmer (‘Hederl. Tijdschr. voor Geneesk.,’ 1873, Afd. i, Ho. 13) declares that the epidemic in Hamadan,'Persia, was not due to introduction from without, but was spontaneously developed from bad causes already existing, especially to filth, bad water supply, &c. Scott writes (‘Army Med. Rep.,’ xiii, 212) in contradiction of Cor- nish’s view (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 391), that the outbreak of cholera at Secunderabad, in a regiment of hussars, was due to poisoned water supply. He asserts that the spring in question was perfectly good, and used by other regiments without harm ; and that the regiment in question drew their supply from another and unsuspected source. He confesses that the true origin of the mischief is hidden in doubt, and does not think that the possibility of infection by poisoned drinking- water can be absolutely denied. J. Murray (‘ Brit. Med, Journ.,’ 1873, i, 219) decidedly asserts the possibility of infection by drinking-water.