439 ACCIDENTS DURING LABOUR. drachms. This produced severe pain, but completely stopped the haimorrhage, which never amounted to flooding, but oozed continually, of a bright red colour. On the 23rd day the patient was delirious and the discharge brown and offensive; on the 23th day great dyspnoea, and on the 28th she died. The uterus was removed and examined by Dr. Snow Beck and the author. It was nearly 5 inches long and four broad, and its walls f of an inch thick. The anterior and posterior surfaces were marked with black streaks. The tissue was soft, but otherwise apparently healthy. Its inner surface was covered with a dark reddish black fluid, and at the junction of the upper third with the lower two thirds was a depression stained black; near the centre of it an artery hung out more than one eighth of an inch. Close to the depression and fitting into it was a rounded mass of placenta about the size of a small filbert. A small portion of the end of an artery showed the free ex- tremity obliquely puckered, its margin rounded and the canal unob- structed. The author believed the case taught—1. That post-partum haemorrhage happening after complete contraction of the uterus, and therefore after the uterine sinuses have been emptied of blood, is evidently arterial. 2. That when a solution of the perchlonde. of iron is injected into the uterus the sinuses take it up and carry it into the veins, the tissue around the sinuses becoming stained. 3. That the perchloride of iron does not produce contraction, nor by coagulation of blood blocking of the orifices of the uterine arteries. 4. That the per- chloride of iron is a styptic the use of which in the cavity of the puerperal uterus is not innocuous. (£ Obst. Journ.,’ 1873.) Dr. Snow Beck writes on uterine haemorrhage during the puerperal period, especially with reference to the source and the cause of the hae- morrhage; he concludes that the blood comes from the torn utero-placental arteries ; the haemorrhage is not venous by retrogression ; when the uterus is not firmly contracted the canals of the veins remain pervious, and any noxious secretion or other soluble substance at the inner surface is taken up and carried along these canals into the general circulation; the coats of the arteries are so distinctly adherent to the uterine tissues as to prevent any retraction in their length or contraction in their diameter, and are so incorporated with the tissues in the uterine walls that the condition of their canals is only influenced by the contraction or relaxation of the tissues comprising the walls ; the formation of clots in the canals of either the arteries or the veins has never been shown to exercise any influence as a means of arresting haemorrhage ; the in- jection of styptics into the gravid uterus to arrest haemorrhage incurs the serious risk of causing the inevitable death of the individual, from the substance being taken up by the veins and conveyed into the general system; the only safe moans of arresting post-partum haemor- rhage and preventing those puerperal complications which too frequently follow child-bearing is—by closing the canals of both the arteries and the veins through the means of complete and permanent contraction of the uterine walls. Dr. M£Rae writes (£Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1873) on the use of the electro-magnetic current in the second stage of labour, and he quotes 3 cases in illustration. The method of application is as follows :