396 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. (‘ Obst. Journ.,’ May, 1873). lie cicala especially with the reflex symp- toms associated with this condition, pointing out their extensive character external to the uterus, and then examines the effect of irritation of nerves on the uterus itself. In many cases marked relief is afforded bv the application of nitrate of silver to the denuded spot, in the same way and for the same reason as when a syphilitic fissure of the tongue is touched with nitrate of silver. The author refers to the bearing which these points have on so-called chronic inflammation of the uterus. As the result of the abrasion of the os uteri we find enlargement of the vessels, great sensitiveness and all the symptoms generally said to attend chronic metritis, and yet all these symptoms disappear rapidly on removing the exciting cause. ^ Dr. Lombe Atthill contributes a paper to the Dublin Obstetrical, Society on endo-inetritis. After speaking of its frequency, symptoms and the physical signs, he gives the treatment: first local blood- letting ; this is best performed by puncturing the cervical tissue with a long-handled lancet; secondly, local application to the diseased mucous membrane lining the body of the uterus. This is best done by passing a stilette armed with a layer of cotton wool saturated with nitric acid, acid nitrate of mercury, &c. To do this thoroughly, and to prevent the fluid being pressed out of the cotton wool as its passes through the cervix, it is necessary to first dilate the cervix by sea-tangle tents. To guard the cervix still further, Dr. Atthill employs an intra- uterine speculum, made of vulcanite, something like an aural speculum, which is expanded by means of a screw working through a long handle. No bad results have followed this treatment (‘ Dublin Journal of Med. Science,’ 1873). Dr. Matthews Duncan writes on the orifices of the unimpregnated uterus, and their surgical treatment (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1873). He has never seen or heard of an acquired stricture of the orifices of the uterus or the canal of the cervix ; congenital stricture of the external os is very rare. Both ora uteri, when in a state of health, are easily permeated by the ordinary uterine sound ; the same is true in disease, except in rare cases of acquired or congenital stricture. Both ora uteri in health are easily dilated. In spasmodic dysmenorrhoea, the passage of the smallest sound gives great pain, identical with that of the spasmodic dysmenorrhoea ; the dilatation of the internal os causes great pain, and must be done slowly; when dilated it does not recontract to its pristine state for years. It is possible that in spasmodic dys- menorrhoea there may be a morbid condition of the process of healthy menstruation, whether passing the bounds of health or not. The treat- ment for this condition is dilatation of the internal os, and to do this Dr. Duncan thinks the best and safest method is the passing of graduated bougies of increasing sizes daily. Dr. More Madden, in a paper read before the Obst. Soc. of Dublin, Deb. 1873, on chronic inflammation of the cervix uteri, says that this affection is the most common of the diseases peculiar to women ; ol 6500 cases of out-patients, one tenth had this complaint, and the proportion in private practice was the same. After discussing whether uterine diseases are on the increase, &c., Dr. Madden describes the