ltJUtOlti' ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. 854 tical substance; but if there should be any considerable outflow lie leaves such remains to be absorbed. In most of the cases the anterior portions of the vitreous body have been thickened and altered by the inflammation, and show only a small tendency to escape. Paralysis of the inferior oblique.—Cuignet1 gives a full and interest- ing description of a case of this rare form of paralysis, of which Prof. Alfred Graefe asserts that he has never seen an example. The patient complained that all objects appeared to be in movement, and that he became giddy, but not that he had double vision. The left eye was turned downwards and inwards, the pupil dilated, the head drooping forwards, and inclined sometimes to the right, sometimes to the left. By the assist- ance of a coloured glass homonymous diplopia was rendered manifest. When the right eye was covered, and the patient attempted to walk by the guidance only of the left, he suffered from vertigo, and strayed from a straight line, first to the left, then to the right. The diagnosis was rendered difficult by the perfect and equal mobility of the eyes in all directions. The author put to himself the questions, Which side is in fault ? and what muscle or nerve ? Is it the left sixth nerve or the right fourth, or the left] inferior oblique muscle ? The two first-men- tioned suggestions were dismissed by way of exclusion. It could not be the left sixth, because the degree of the internal strabismus was in- sufficient, the deviation was downwards instead of inwards, and the power of abduction was scarcely at all impaired; neither could it be the left fourth nerve, because the image of the left eye was in all posi- tions lower than that of the right. An important indication that the inferior oblique was affected was given by dilatation of the pupil and impairment of accommodation, showing paralysis of the branch of the third, which proceeds to the inferior oblique, and which also supplies the circular fibres of the iris. The author sought for, but did not find, the divergence of the vertical meridians above, which has been described as an evidence of this form of paralysis. The power of abduction was very slightly diminished; but, neverthe- less, when the object was in the far left, the separation of the double images was diminished instead of being increased. With an object placed on the left the images would be twenty-five to thirty centi- metres apart; but with an object on the extreme left the distance apart would be only ten or twelve centimetres. This was due to the integ- rity of the external rectus, which, when strongly called into play, was able to produce a degree of abduction which approximated the images. When the object of vision was placed above the eyes, I found, says the author, “ the opposite of the condition generally described, that is to say, instead of a greater separation or rather a superposition of well- defined images, there was an approximation or even a fusion of them; to be explained somewhat, as in the case of extreme abduction, by the integrity of the superior rectus, which, under the influence of the will, supplied the want of action of the inferior oblique. In consequence, also, of the conjoint action of the superior and external recti, there was no diplopia when the object of vision was in a direction upwai ds and outwards.” After having remarked that the distance between the 1 ‘ Journal d’Ophthalmologic de Paris.’