259 ECCHYMOSIS OF EYELIDS, ETC. days after this the skull was trephined to the right of the middle line. The piece of hone removed was rough and excavated on its external sur- face, very dense, and increased in thickness. He had no fits afterwards. (‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 30, 1873, and c Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xix, 21). _ The value of palpebral and sub-conjunctival . ecchymosis. Mr. Clement Lucas contributes an article on this subject. After some preliminary observations he says, “ Beneath the palpebral portion of the orbicularis muscle lies the palpebral ligament, a membrane of con- siderable interest in the present inquiry, since it is of sufficient density to obstruct, for a time at all events, the passage of extravasated bloocl. It is attached peripherally to the margin of the orbit and centrally to the anterior surfaces of the tarsal cartilages near their free edges. Blood extravasated as the result of a blow upon the margin of the orbit, or gravitating into the lids after a contusion of the forehead, nose, or temple, will lie superficial to this structure ; whereas blood poured out into the cellular tissue of the orbit from fractured skull, or other causes, will show itself beneath the conjunctiva and internal to or beneath this fibrous septum. It becomes, therefore, a matter of very considerable importance in diagnosis to determine whether blood ex- travasated into the lids superficial to the palpebral ligament is capable of making its way to the ocular conjunctiva and vice versa.” “I think I shall be able to show that blood may, without much difficulty, find its way from the lids to the ocular conjunctiva at one particular point, and that, therefore, no very definite conclusions can be drawn from the apparent limiting action of the palpebral ligament.” He first of all noticed that in a patient who had received a blow on the forehead both eyelids of both eyes became distended with blood and then the ocular conjunctiva became affected, the blood passing in a direction from the outer canthus towards the cornea. Repeated observations have tended to confirm this conclusion—that extravasated blood finding its way into the lids in any considerable quantity will commonly make its way beneath the conjunctiva of the eyeball, and that it does so at a definite fixed point by running in at the outer canthus in a horizontal direction towards the cornea. The experiment of injecting ink and water was tried and the result was the same. “ The explanation of the course taken by fluids when injected or extra- vasated into the upper eyelid is very simple. The skin of each lid forms with the palpebral conjunctiva a fold, into which the palpebral ligament and tarsal cartilage dips so as to form a diaphragm, which separates the superficial areolar tissue and orbicularis muscle from the areolar tissue of the orbit. The margin of the fold is so pinned, as it were, along its greater part to the subjacent tarsal cartilage by the insertion of the roots of the eyelashes and the Meibomian glands that no fluid can pass by to the under surface of the septum. But at the outer canthus the skin is only loosely attached to the underlying parts and the fluid is able to pass round the external tarsal lio-ament and so reach the ocular conjunctiva. Its further horizontaf course towards the cornea is probably determined by the conjunctiva beino' less firmly attached to the equator of the eye than elsewhere and also to the absence here of the pressure of the lids during the time that