REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 70 52 out of 72 In tlio latter epidemic in’Paris, in 4983 out of 6903 cases a diarrhoea of at least six hours was observed before the other symptoms showed themselves. I. A. Muhlhiiuser (£ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873,393) gives brief reports ot 21 cases of cholera occurring during the recent epidemic, in all of which the urine was found to contain albumen. Pour were fatal cases of collapse, eight survived after passing through the algide stage, and nine recovered from diarrhoea without passing into the stage of collapse. He draws the following conclusions If a patient be seized with vomiting or diarrhoea, or both, during the existence of an epidemic of cholera, and his urine be not albuminous, he is not affected with the disease ; but if, under the same circumstances, a patient has albuminous urine, he is affected, though he does recover after passing through the algide state or that of collapse. The writer thinks this test sufficient to distinguish between true Asiatic cholera and summer diarrhoea, or any affection allied to it. A. Hermann (£ Allg. Wien. Med. Ztng.,’ 1873, 52, &c.) also concludes that the presence of albumen with choleraic symptoms, and in the absence of any renal affection, is pathognomonic of true cholera; while non- albuminous urine, however severe the choleraic symptoms may appear, is proof that the disease is not cholera. Kenaut and Kelsch describe (£ Gfaz. des Hop.,’ 1873, 926) certain histological changes in the intestine in cholera, which consist essen- tially in inflammation and partial destruction of the tubular glands with hyperplasia of the connective tissue and the lymphatic elements. They noticed also that the red blood-cells, in the algide stage especially, were shrivelled or broken up altogether; and by the setting free of their contained pigment they account for the dark colour of the urine in the stage of reaction. Hayem, however (£Hn. Med.,’ xvi, 966), agreeing with these writers in finding increase in the colourless cells, is unable to discover the red ones, only broken remains of them; this result he believes to be due to the fact that during the period of stasis the red and white blood-cor- puscles are passing through the vessel-walls, and the former, caught by the blood stream when the circulation is restored, are broken by its force. He is able to produce the same effect by ligaturing a guinea- pig’s leg. T. It. Lewis and D. Cunningham (‘Eighth Keport of Sanitary Com- mission to Government of India,’ App. C, Calcutta, 1872) give the re- sults of their microscopical and physiological researches into the nature of the agent or agents producing cholera. They affirm that the blood in cholera “is, as an almost invariable rule, free from bacteria, either actual or potential,” as also from fungoid elements. They give a table of 128 specimens of blood, which shows that neither of these elements occurred in it when fresh, and only in a few cases at a later period. Injections of choleraic evacuations, either fresh or several days old, into the veins of dogs failed to produce anything like cholera. The well-marked and pretty constant intestinal lesions produced appeared to be the conse- quence of local disturbance of the circulation, and were obtained whether the injections used were choleraic or not. Struck by the fact