REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 123 tremities, and of them alone, came on some few days later, and remained lor somo months. In the absence of any examination, as the patient recovered, he discusses the probable changes in the white and grey matter and the ganglion-cells. A. Frey (“TJeber temporare Liihmungen Erwaclisener, die den tem- poriiren Spinal-lahmungen der Kinder analog sind und von Myelitis der Yorherhbrner auszugehen scheinen,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1874, 4) contributes several cases of a similar nature. In illustration of the statement that in infantile paralysis the affected muscles may regain power, certain changes in the anterior horns being assumed to take place, he gives a case of the kind. The third history he gives is that of a patient, set. 33, in whom the affection was accompanied by such great pyrexia and cerebral disturbance that it was supposed to be the com- mencement of a typhoid, but the symptoms corresponded later with those in the cases described by the writer already quoted, and the patient ultimately recovered. A. Joffroy has made experiments (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1873, 484) on dogs, causing symptoms of myelitis and citaxie locomotrice by injuring the cord in the dorsal and lumbar regions. He finds swelling of the axis- cylinders, proliferation of certain cells (Deiter’s ?) in the grey substance of the cord, and dilatation of the whole of the central canal, which was filled with granular substance. E. Troisier (“ Note sur deux cas de Lesions sclereuses de la Moelle epiniere,” ‘Arch, de Phys.,’ v, 709) gives at length, with plates of the lesions found, the history of two cases in which paraplegia of the lower extremities was accompanied by only partial sclerosis of the cord. In both the very circumscribed change was situated in the dorsal portion of the cord. Troisier, remarking on the symptoms pre- sented during life in these cases, observes that they support, clinically, the views put forward by Brown-Sequard, and based on his experi- ments on unilateral section of the cord. At the same time they are examples of one form under which, without reference to tabes dorsalis and disseminated sclerosis, chronic myelitis may occur. P. Elechsig (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiv, 464) discusses certain relations which he believes to exist between secondary degenerations of the cord and antecedent processes of development ot its ultimate tissues. L. Martineau (‘ Union Med.,’ xvii, 395) records a case of acute general inflammation of the grey substance ot the cord. The patient was a youth, set. 23, perfectly well up to seventeen days before his death, when he was attacked with headache and a feeling ot general weakness, ac- companied by paralysis of the bladder, weakness of the upper extremi- ties, especially the right arm, and severe pain down the spine. Death occurred from asphyxia. The autopsy revealed the white substance of the column normal, the grey in a condition of inflammatory change. The ganglion-cells of the anterior horns had almost altogether disap- peared, being replaced by spherical elements, '005 to ‘007 mm., m diameter, which were also present along the walls of the arteries. Similar changes were found in the perivascular sheaths of the vessels. The nerve-nuclei of the medulla oblongata were normal. A. Nieden gives (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 75), the case of a man, aged