158 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. coat which Virchow has shown to accompany chlorosis. In these cases there is generally found a fatty liver, with catarrhal jaundice and tatty changes in the glands of the stomach and the kidneys ; hut the. most important alteration is in the blood, which is very poor in fibrin and red blood-cells. This contrasts strongly with the senile or plethoric form, in which all the organs are congested, and the quantities of fibrin and blood-cells are normal. In both, anaemia of the cardiac muscle is the starting-point; in the first from disease of the vessels, in the second from disease of the blood. A table of 38 cases shows the affections which in the latter form led to the primary antenna. In illustration of the same question TI. Immermann gives (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ xiii., 209) two cases of progressive pernicious antenna1 in a lad, aged 18, and in a woman, aged 31. The first, a shoemaker, previously healthy, had felt for six weeks loss of power on exertion, and suffered from dyspnoea and remarkable pallor. Suddenly he was seized with dimness of vision and epistaxis. The heart’s dulness was increased, its impulse diffused ; the pulse was frequent, there was a loud bruit de diable, several petechite on the lower extremities and back, and several large extravasations into both retina. A few days later there was increased temperature accompanied by copious flow of pale urine, of low specific cavity, but otherwise normal; there were no signs of leuc- hsemia. In spite of tonics, the pyrexia, the signs of anaemia, and the haemorrhagic diathesis, lasted till death. No autopsy could be obtained. The second case was that of a married woman, set. 31, also previously healthy, who presented symptoms of a precisely similar character. Here the post-mortem examination revealed only slight general anaemia, fatty degeneration of the heart, liver and kidneys, and slight enlargement, with hardness, of the spleen. With these cases he compares one of acute myelogenous leuchaemia in a girl, aet. 17; the attack followed typhoid. There was increasing weakness, pallor, a fluctuating gland-tumour at the angle of the right jaw, and petechiae. The spleen was enlarged, there was increase in the number of white blood-corpuscles (1 to 20) and some rise in temperature; in addition to the signs naturally expected post mortem, there was marked though partial fatty degeneration of the heart, especially in the papillary muscles of the left side, haemorrhages into the right retina, which was alone examined, hyperplasia of the bone-marrow, the tonsils, and the glands of the tongue. F. A. Zenker (ib., 348) had pointed out in 1856 the connection between fatty degeneration of the heart, the haemorrhagic diathesis, and anaemia. The case was that of a woman whose symptoms agreed with those of Immermann’s cases. Here also, post mortem, was general anaemia" fatty degeneration of the heart, extravasation into the abdominal cavity, and capillary apoplexies in the brain, and ecchymoses in other tissues. L. Perl (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lix, 39) has made experiments on dogs m 1 This Idiopathic or Perniciohs Anaemia was first described by Addison (“On Supra-renal Capsulessee reprint by this Society of Addison’s works, p. 212) ; see also Wilks (‘ Path. Anat.,’ ed. 1859, p. 459)’ ancl ‘ Guy s HosP- ser- 3. vo1- 1U> p. 203.—Rep.