ItEPORT on surgery. 226 lent fluid. The aorta was much, diseased. (‘ Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,* August, 1874.) Popliteal aneurism on the right side cured by pressure—one on the left side having been cured by ligature of the femoral seven years previously. —The patient was under the care of Mr. Birkett. (‘ Med. Times and Graz.,’ March 7, 1874.) Popliteal aneurism treated by forcible flexion.—A case is related by Dr. O. Risel in the ‘ Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift,’ No. 12, 1873, of a strong muscular man, set. 41, who had an aneurism of the size of a hen’s egg in the right popliteal space. The knee-joint was flexed until the heel nearly touched the buttock, and was retained in this position for 168 hours continuously ; the swelling became harder and the pulsation less. Some days later, flexion was again applied for 48 hours; the pulsation and bruit altogether disappeared. It was some time before the knee could be fully extended ; the swelling gradually disappeared. A year later the patient was in good health, and was able to follow his calling (as a gymnast); he had, however, occasional pain in the neighbourhood of the patella, and some tenderness in the sole of the foot. Diffused false traumatic aneurism of the popliteal artery ; flexion; cure; relapse ; ligature of femoral.—Dr. Monette records the case of a man, set. 25, who received a pistol-shot wound of both thighs. One ball entered on the inner side of the right thigh, two inches below the in- ferior margin of Scarpa’s triangle. There was a sudden haemorrhage which was soon checked. The ball was removed same day and the wound healed kindly. The ball entering the left leg, three and a half inches above the patella, ranged posteriorly, and on the inner side of the femur, severing one of the branches of the popliteal. Eighteen days after the injury symptoms of aneurism appeared ; compression, digital and instrumental, was tried without success. Elexion of the knee was then tried •, it compressed the tumour, diminished the size, and effected an almost perfect cure. He was lost sight of and a week later came under care, all the symptoms having recurred owing to im- prudent use of the limb. The femoral was then ligatured with excellent result; had the man not been imprudent the aneurism would have been cured by flexion. (4 Am. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1873.) Popliteal aneurism treated by flexion; gangrene of leg; amputation^ of thiqh; recovery.—The patient was a man, iet. 28, under the care of Mr. Wagstaffe. After complete cessation of pulsation by flexion for two or three hours, the pain was so great that the pressure was re- laxed On the fourth day gangrene commenced; on the fifth it had extended to the knee without any line of demarcation. Amputation was performed; rapid recovery followed.; very slight pulsation only could be felt in the distal vessels before the flexion was begun. (‘ Med. Times and G-az.,’ Eeb. 21, 1874.) Aneurism of tie left popliteal; forcibleflexion; cure in six W- A case is recorded under the care of Mr. Benfield. ( Lancet, May 30, 1874.)