465 ALKALOIDS. from organic mixtures. —H. Struve,1 of Tiflis, iu an elaborate paper on toxicological research, speaks very favorably of phospho-molybdic acid —first introduced by Sonnensehein—as a general reagent for the pre- cipitation of the alkaloids. Phospho-tungstic acid, according to C. Scheibler,3 fulfils the same function as phospho-molybdic acid, and in a satisfactory manner. The precipitates which it gives with the alkaloids are very voluminous. Ammonium sulpho-molghdate as a test for the alkaloids.—J. H. Buck- ingham 3 remarks that the beautiful blue coloration produced by ammonium, sulpho-molybdate with morphine compounds is not charac- teristic of this alkaloid. The reagent is best prepared by dissolving four grains of ammonium molybdate in a dram of concentrated sulphuric acid by means of heat, and then cooling. The solution must be freshly prepared. It is dropped on to the solid substance to be tested. The reagent gives no colour reaction with quinine, quinidine, cinchonine, asparagine, strychine, atropine, and theine (caffeine), or at most a blue coloration only after some time. Characteristic colours are given with the following solutions :—Santonin, light purple red ; menispermine, light yellow ; solanine, yellow; veratrine, yellowish green, passing into dark brown and then into dark blue ; meconin, light green, passing into light blue ; narcotine, yellowish green ; codeine, green; phloridzin, dark blue (permanent) ; salicin, purple red, passing through blue and brownish red into dark blue ; morphine, dark red passing through purple red into dark blue; digitalin, crimson, then purple red, and finally dark blue; brucine, brick-red ; aconitine, light yellowish brown, passing through purplish red into dark blue ; piperine, brownish red, berberine, purplish red; and cubebin, crimson. All the above substances, with the exception of meconin, give as a final result a dark blue liquid. I he author says that the reagent is a good one for discriminating between strychine and brucine, and for detecting salicin and phloridzin in quinine. Alkaloids. MM. Borsch and Fassbender 4 point out that great care is requisite in applying Stass’s method, or Otto’s modification of it, for the detection ot alkaloids in the dead body. They find that a substance resembling the vegetable alkaloids in its solubility in ether and in its general behaviour to reagents may be extracted from the liver in medico-legal analyses. The fresh liver of an ox yielded by Stass’s method a substance which was taken up by ether both from its acid and alkaline solutions, and the body reacted like an alkaloid. Prof. Gronnig also m investigating a case of poisoning by liver-sausage, obtained a similar substance from a healthy boiled liver. i\ Selmi5 has made some valuable contributions to toxicological che- mistry, not the least of which is a new general method of separating the alkaloids in a pure state from complex organic mixtures. The organic mixture is digested for some hours with alcohol and a little sulphuric 1 ‘Zeitschr. f. Anal. Clicm.,’ 1873. x>. i6a. Zeitschr. f. Anal. Cliein.,’ 1874, n. 271: >t. 16, 1874, No. 13. Cheiu. Sou/ [2], xii, p. 607.