REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154 tion of the limb. In another case of death under similar circumstances the writer found the obstruction firmly attached to the tricuspid valve, and floating for some distance into the pulmonary artery. Gf. G-. Grascoyen gives (ib., ii, 189) a similar case of sudden death. A man, set. 44, struck his left knee, causing some pain. In a few days the limb became more painful and swollen, not pitting on pressure, but the patient refused to give up his business, which was some distance from his home, took his food as usual, and made no complaint. On the twenty- sixth day after the accident, returning home as usual, he suddenly became faint while ascending the steps of the railway station and unable to proceed. He was placed upon a chair and was observed to gasp and struggle for breath, striking his chest frequently as if to remove some obstruction. Taken home in a cab, he walked into his house with assist- ance and upstairs into his bedroom, lay down upon the bed and almost immediately expired. He was perfectly conscious throughout and did not complain of pain ; his face was very livid, and his dyspnoea extreme. At the autopsy decomposition had rapidly advanced: there was no bruising about the seat of injury. The blood was perfectly fluid, the heart containing no clot. Both the lungs were congested, though crepitant throughout; the trunk and main divisions of the pulmonary artery were empty, but their subdivisions, as far as they were traced, were completely plugged by black, dry, and friable clot. A firm dry clot was found in the left femoral vein from the profunda downwards, ex- tending throughout the popliteal and tibia] veins even into the small branches. The sheath of the femoral vessels was thickened and adherent to the vein. Some clots found in the branches of the external saphena did not entirely block them. The fascia over the popliteal space was thickened and brawny from recent inflammation. The writer draws attention to the trifling injury which led to death ; the absence of any symptoms of the condition found; the large extent to which the deep veins were involved without local discomfort or serious interference with health; the complete transference of the circulation from the deep to the superficial system of veins, and the capacity of the latter to carry on the entire venous circulation of the limb unaided and without causing oedema—for the swelling of the leg was not due to serous effusion into the subcutaneous tissue, but to the distension of the deep veins with clot, and exudation into the muscles and their areolar investments. A. B. Shepherd (ib. ib., 412) records a case resembling these two in many points. A healthy man, set. 49, slipped through the rounds of a ladder, and abraded his left shin. On the twenty-first day afterwards he had a fainting fit,'and three days later a rigor followed by an attack of simple pleurisy ; on the thirtieth day he suddenly fell down and died. The autupsy showed most extensive decomposition of the head, neck, and upper extremities; all the organs were healthy, but very much decom- posed, the blood, with the following exceptions, being fluid. Coiled up m the apex of the right ventricle were three clots, one showing the im- pression of vein-valves. Only one branch of the pulmonary artery con- tained a small recent clot. On slitting up tbe left internal saphena vein its coats below the region of tbe wound were normal; near the wound they cut more rottenly, and where the smaller veins entered it the vein