GENERATION.—DEVELOPMENT. 47 Mihalkovies1 gives a very full account of the structure of the test,s, including the course, structure, and contents of the tubul, semimferi, Jhe natae of the intermediate substance and the arrangement of the lymphatics and blood-vessels. He divides the tubuli into lour sec- tions, namely, the part secreting the specific seminal elements or tubuli seminales coutorti. a. The straight tubules, tubuli seminales recti, a. The plexus seminales, and, 4. the epididymis. The tubuli contorti form a plexus of dickotomously dividing canals. The terminal branches form loops. In man these tubules present smaU bud-hke promotions of the wall. Mihalkovies agrees with v. Ebner in admit- ting the existence of spermatoblasts. He doubts, however, their plexi- form arrangement as described by v. Ebner. The tubuli recti are not continuations of the foregoing, but excretory ducts with lower epithe- lium. The epididymis he regards as the organ in which the greater part of the fluid constituents of the semen are secreted. He finds that the interstitial connective tissue consists of fasciculi of fibres of greater or less fineness which form plexuses and are invested by endothelial cells ; their membranes formed of such cells extend from one fasciculus to another, slightly supported by connective-tissue fibrils and having distinct stomata. Scattered amongst the fibres are protoplasmic cells similar to those found in other parts of the body. The lymphatics commence into the intermediate spaces as lacunae and fissures, and no proper tubu- lar vessels are found in the parenchyma. The tubuli seminiferi are surrounded by a very dense plexus of capillaries. M. Beneden 3 remarks that it has hitherto been almost universally admitted that the testis and ovary spring from the same embryonic organ, which, becoming differentiated with the advance of growth, becomes the testis in the male and the ovary in the female. His own researches, however, made on different kinds of zoophytes, and princi- pally upon Hydractinia, Echinata, Clava squamata, and Campanularia gelcitinosa, have convinced him that the axiom of the identity of the two sexual glands has no scientific basis. The testis he finds to be derived from the external lamina or ectoderm, whilst the ovary has its point de depart in the internal lamina of the embryo, which is the homologue of the endoderm of zoophytes. The homology which exists between the two primordial laminae of the embryos of Vertebrata and the two laminae which form the bodies of Zoophytes was first recognised by Huxley. At present the form “gastrula,” consisting of an ellipsoidal cavity, circumscribed by two cellular laminae applied to one another, the endoderm and the ectoderm, has been observed not only amongst Zoo- phytes and Vertebrata, but also among Vermes, Eckinodermata, Mol- lusks, and Arthropods—in a word, in all the great divisions of the animal kingdom with the exception of the Protozoa. These are generally monocellular, like the Gfregarinadae and Infusory Animalculae, and never present anything comparable to the two laminae of the metazoaries. The ectoderm of Zoophytes is homologous with the external lamina of the embryo of Vermes, Mollusks, Eckinodermata, Arthropods, and Verte- 1 Mihalkovies, ‘ Anatomie und Histologie des Hodens Leipziger Pliys. Arbeiten ’ 1873, B. viii, p. 1. 2 ‘ The Distinct Origin of the Testis and Ovary.’