133 DIPHTHERIA AND CROUP. take every liour a table-spoonful of solution of chloride of iron (6 grm. in 200 grm. water). Frequent washing of the affected parts with warm water is sometimes sufficient. In the case of children he uses a syringe in the place of the gargles. Under this treatment he has lost only two out of thirty patients, and these two only because his directions were not fully carried out. , , Lolli (‘ Gaz. Med. Lombard./ 1873, 82) is particularly fortunate with his patients ; he uses no caustics, nor does he bleed; he teeas them well and gets their skin to act, and he gives them a mixture containing perchloride of iron and lime-water. Under this plan the mortality is at the most, through complications or imperfect treatment, 2 per cent.; the average duration of the disease is eight days; there was no extension of the mischief to the respiratory passages, and extremely few secondary affections, such as paralysis, inflammation of the joints, or dropsy. . Kuhn (‘Berl. Klin. Woch./ 1873, 6$) employs ice and inhalations of lime-water, pencils the affected parts with carbolic acid or nitrate of silver, and gives internally carbonate of potash. He attempts by this means to modify the condition of the mucous membrane as to make it unfit for any further development of the specific fungus. Only four cases out of 7.2 treated in this manner terminated fatally. Binder (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1873, No. 33) writes on the existence of diphtheria in Moldavia and Wallachia. It has prevailed there since 1869, and in 1870 extended to the south-east frontier of Transylvania. It next spread, in 1872, to Schiirrburg and to Herrmannstadt, where it attacked 158 persons. Between December 7, 1872, and March 19, 1873, 30 caught the affection in Agnetheln, of whom 18 died. Binder describes the precautions taken to stay its further extension. In ad- dition to public sanitary measures the rooms were disinfected with wood-smoke, and those about the patient were ordered to use gargles of decoction of oakbark and spirits of wine. Nineteen persons who did not use the gargle were attacked and 13 died, while of six who was attacked after using this means not one died. After March 19 sixteen more cases occurred in Agnetheln, with death in six only, and this good result he ascribes to the use, in these later cases, of lime- water in the form of inhalation. J. G. Ehrhardt, in a paper on “ Tracheotomy in Membranous Croup and in Diphtheria” (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci./ lxv, 421), gives notes of the cases of four boys, aged 4I, 3, 2, and 3 years respectively. The second patient died from broncho-pneumonia four days after the opera- tion ; in the third the tracheotomy was too late to save life; the first wore the canula for fourteen days, and after an attack of dyspnoea following closure of the wound, ultimately recovered; in the fourth case, which also recovered, the canula was removed on the eleventh day. C. J. Eberth, “Die diphtherischen Processe,” ‘ Centralblt.,’ 1873, 113. Id., “Zur Kenntniss dcr Wunddiplitherie,” ib., 291. Larue, “ Paraplegie diphtherique ” (gir] ajt. 4, recovery), ‘ Gaz. des H6p.,’ 1873, 74. Camuset, “Cas de Paralysie de l’accom- raodation de l’OEil suite d’Angine diphtheritique,” ib., 1874, 209. Headland, “A case of Diphtheritic Paralysis ” (boy, set. 19, recovery), ‘ Lancet/ 1873, i, aoo. Corma'ck