298 REPORT ON SURGERY. this would afford relief to the pain, except iu a portion of the integu- ment of the nock and shoulder posteriorly, supplied by the third cervical nerve. The posterior border of the sterno-mastoid having been made tense, an incision was made along it and thence along the clavicle. The external jugular vein was held out of the way, and the cellular tissue having been torn, &c., with the handle of the scalpel, the omohyoid was exposed, its posterior belly held aside, and the outer cord found. This was carefully freed, and four fifths of an inch of it removed. The inner cord was sought for, freed, and a portion of it removed. The patient was relieved, save that he was liable to paroxysms of pain in the skin over the shoulder, &c. He remained in the same state at the end of five months. The temperature rose at first, and then descended below normal. The arm is, of course, completely paralysed, but the patient is thankful to have relief from the pain. An account of a microscopic examination of the portions of nerve removed is appended. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1874.) Neuralgia treated by stretching the median nerve.—Mr. Callender records a case. He made an incision over the median nerve above the elbow (amputation had been performed at the elbow), and detached the nerve from the surrounding tissues with the exception of its extremity, which was left as fixed. The nerve trunk was considerably increased in size. After its isolation it was seized with a vulsellum and then drawn down from the plexus. Very considerable force was used, but the nerve yielded very little. Two months later the patient was quite relieved of his symptoms. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vii, 100.) Neuralgia of the hand treated by amputation of the little and ring fingers and of part of the index finger. Mr. Callender records a case. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vii, 104.) Multiple neuroma cured by neurectomy.—A man, set. 30, had on the posterior and outer part of his right thigh more than a hundred neuro- mata varying in size from a pin’s head to a hazel-nut. As their extir- pation was impossible, and all means failed to relieve the pain, Prof. Kosinski, of Warsaw, excised a portion of the inferior gluteal nerve an inch long. The result was that not only the pain and tenderness in the neuromata ceased immediately after the operation, but the tumours themselves began soon to diminish, and four months afterwards most of them had entirely disappeared, and those which remained were quite painless. (‘Centralblatt fur Chirurgie,’ Nov. 16, 1874.) Bemoval of alveolar process for neuralgia of inferior dental nerve ( Gross’ operation); cure.—The patient was a man, set. 47, under the care of Dr. Hutchison. He had suffered from neuralgia for two years. His teeth had been removed. A portion of the alveolus an inch and a half in length was removed, the periosteum being preserved. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1874.) Tenotomy in adduction of thighs.—In a elinical lecture on infantile paralysis and the deformities resulting therefrom, Mr. Barwell de- scribes an operation he has repeatedly performed, for separating the thighs when they are adducted and fixed. He gives an explanatory diagram. The origin of the adductors occupies a considerable space on the pubis and ischium surrounding the obturator foramen; the