91 LEUCH2EMIA—MUSCULAR ATROPHY, ETC. J. Lockhart Clarke gives in full an account (‘Med. Chir. Trans.,’ lvi, 103) of the microscopical appearances found in the brain and spinal cord of a man, set. 60,' who died from progressive muscular atrophy, accompanied by muscular rigidity and contraction of the joints. lie remarks that the symptoms are very clearly explained by the morbid changes found. The embarrassed articulation, the nasal character of the voice, the difficulty in swallowing, and the constant escape of saliva from the mouth, all exhibited by this patient, and resembling the group of symptoms which constitute glosso-labio-laryngeal paralysis, are ex- plained by the alterations seen in the nuclei of the facial, hypoglossal, vagus and spinal accessory nerves. The great feebleness of the respi- ratory movements is accounted for by the lesions found in the anterior and lateral grey substance of the cervical and dorsalregionsofthe cord, includ- ing the tractus intermedio-lateralis, which the writer has already shown to be connected with the rootlets of the spinal accessory nerve and with the anterior roots supplying the respiratory muscles. The same progressive lesion of the anterior grey substance in the dorsal and lumbar regions explains the paralysis of the extremities, and the marked sclerosis of the antero-lateral columns, with the contraction and stiffness of the joints, confirms Charcot’s view (‘Arch. de Phys.,’ 1869) as to the connection between these symptoms and the morbid changes found. W. M. Ord gives (c Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ lvii, 11) the notes of a case of Duchenne’s pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis occurring in a boy, xet. 7, who for two years had suffered from progressive weakness of the back and lower limbs. The sacro-spinal muscles and the muscles of the thigh were thin and poor, but the calves were distinctly overgrown. The latter were warmer than the thighs by r9° to 3-9° F. Fibres of the muscles removed by an emporte-pifoe showed no degeneration, but some increase of the white fibrous element between the primitive fasciculi. He suggests, on these facts, that the disease was in a very early stage, and largely due to vaso-motor derangement, probably paralytic. J. T. Dickson, “ On tlie changes which occur in the Spinal Cord after Amputation of a Limb, compared with the changes found in association with Progressive Muscular Atrophy” (with drawings), ‘Path. Soc. Trans./ xxiv, 2. A. Ivussmaul, “Ueber die fortschreitende Bulbarparalyse und ihr Verlialtniss zur Progressive Muskel-byper- trophie,” ‘ Volkmann’s Vortrage/ ser. iii, No. 54. M. Friedreich, ‘ Ueber Progres- sive Muskelatrophie, iiber wahre und falsclie Muskelbypertrophie/ Berlin, 1873, ppt ^8 (with two plates). Uhde, “Ueber einen mittelst Sehnensclinitts behandelten Fall von Myopachyosis lipomatosa (Griesinger’s Muskelbypertrophie)” (boy, ret. n) ‘ Arch. f. Klin. Chir/ xvi, pt. 2. J. L. Clarke and W. K. Gowers, “On a case of Pseudo- hypertrophic Muscular Paralysis” (boy, set. 19, autopsy, ‘Med.-Chir. Trans./lvii, 247 Lake, “Case of Pseudo-hypertrophic Paralysis” (boy, rut. 9), ‘Lancet/ 1873, ii,’ 113 J. Hutchinson, “Case of Pseudo-hypertrophic Paralysis” (boy, ret. 10), ib. ib., ii /f B. Foster, “ A case of Pseudo-hypertrophic Paralysis (Duchenne’s Paralysis) in’ the third stage” (in a boy), ib., 1874, i, 542. Bamskill, “Paralysis of Hands'" and Feet 1 regressive Muscular Atrophy, Disease of Spinal Cord” (man, ret. 43), ib. ib. i i-t’ Id., “Progressive Muscular Atrophy” (mau, ret. 36), ib. ib., i. 476. ’ G* m’’ Beard “Progressive Muscular Atrophy of the Bight Hand, three years’ standing Pain in Back, Numbness and Coldness, and Neuralgia of the Arm, Disease of the Skin apparent arrest of the disease under Galvanization of the Spine and Peripheral