REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 508 importance of these variations in moisture consists in their hastening or retarding organic processes in the soil; whilst the ground-water itself may be quite quiescent in the matter. Pettenkofer, holding these views, very naturally advocates very stringent provisions being adopted to prevent the fouling of the soil in towns by any kind of organic matter, and the rigid exclusion of all excreta from it. Every precaution should be taken before the out- break of an epidemic, since all arrangements relating to the protection of the Boil from contamination, or its improved drainage, will be useless if not carried out before the outbreak of an epidemic. It requires time and care to render an impure soil uncontaminated. An instance in which the substitution of abundant pure for contami- nated water-supply seemed to produce in two ways an almost complete immunity from cholera is given by Dr. Sernon.1 Dantzic is a city which, in all former epidemics of cholera, has been heavily smitten, in common with Konigsberg. In 1871 the cholera spread from Russia, and as usual, entered Konigsberg, where from the time of the importation (Einscheppung) of the first case on the 26th July, to the 14th October, 2280 persons were attacked and 1568 died. Now, as in the former epidemic, Dantzic lost almost as many as Konigsberg, great fears were entertained that the same result would also now follow. But, on the contrary, although the disease was imported into Dantzic several times, there were, from the 1st August (date of importation) to the 3rd October (date of last case), only 60 cases and 46 deaths out of 90,000 in- habitants. What, then, was the cause of this immunity ? Two great sanitary works had been going on in Dantzic: great drainage works, planned by Mr. Baldwin Latham, had been nearly but not quite com- pleted when the cholera appeared. Although these new sewers had not been used, and therefore could have so far no effect, they had one influence : they had dried the soil, and greatly lowered the level of the ground-water, as was proved by measurements. The soil was, therefore, in the exact condition when, according to Pettenkofer, it should have aided the outbreak of cholera. Yet it did not do so. As Sernon says, there were given all conditions for Pettenkofer’s Y, and as there was no want of X, it was feared that an outbreak of the worst kind would take place in this town notorious for the prevalence of cholera. But it was otherwise. An epidemic so unimportant that it could hardly be called one, formed a contrast to the Konigsberg as to all former Dantzic epidemics. We obtain thus a new argument against the general applicability of Pettenkofer’s doctrine, which was afso strengthened by the later direct water-level measurement (p. 181). The second sanitary work was the supply of extremely pure water, which had been completed and was in use at the time. "Was this the preservative agency ? To us, in England, it will appear exceedingly probable, and Sernon asserts this to a certain extent. Yet he hesitates to ascribe it only to this, as it seemed as if the cholera had, during 1871, less tendency to spread and develope than usual, and, in addition, the abundant supply of water permitted a constant washing 1 *Deut. Vrtljkrschr. f. Off. Gesundlieit.,’ iv, p. 169; taken from ‘Army Med. Jiept.’ for 1872, Appendix I, p. 254.