343 COLOTOMY—ITEUNIA. gangrene). The upward invagination was regarded as secondary, and was “ possibly explained by the traction exerted in the main intussuscep- tion, through the invaginated mass having drawn down the tipper part of the outermost layer of intestine over and outside the portion of gut immediately below.” The patient was under care at the \ ictoria Hospital. (‘Lancet,’ May 17, 1873.) Lumbar colotomy.—Dr. Mason writes a valuable paper on this subject. He details six cases of his own, and tabulates eighty cases.. Of these, where the sex is given, there were forty-four males and thirty-four fe- males. The descending colon was opened by Amussat’s method in seventy- four cases; the ascending in two cases. Callisen’s method was adopted in one case. The colon was opened twice in one patient. The jejunum was opened in the left lumbar region once ; the ileum in the right lumbar region once; the caecum in the right iliac region once. Fifty-four patients recovered and twenty-three died. In thirteen of the fatal cases, death should not be attributed to the operation. The shortest period of survival was sixteen hours and the longest period six years, the patient being still alive and doing well. The peritoneum was stated to have been wounded in seven cases, of which four died (in one of these, however, the post mortem revealed no peritonitis) and three patients recovered. The operation was done for vesico-intestinal fistula, with or without stricture of the rectum, in twelve cases, of which eleven recovered from the operation, and one is recorded as fatal, though the patient evidently did not die from the operation. The shortest period of survival after the operation was three weeks, and the longest two and a half years. "Where obstruction of the bowel was caused by the presence of tumours, there are three cases, of which two recovered, and the result in one is not stated. The period of sur- vival after the operation in these cases was—one case alive and doing well fifteen months afterwards ; one case was alive four and a half years afterwards, and in one case it is not stated. A perusal of these cases will show that in a large proportion of them the operation was not done till the vital powers had nearly become exhausted from long- continued suffering, and with this fact taken into consideration, the results of the operation should, we think, be regarded as encoura°ino\ (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1873.) Strangulated hernia successfully treated by 'pneumatic aspiration.—Dr. Bramwell records a case. The patient was a man set. 50. Strangu- lation had existed about fifteen hours. A needle was pushed into the centre of the tumour and only a little fluid and gas escaped ; it was then withdrawn so as to be only in the sac, and some four or five ounces of fluid escaped. The tumour suddenly collapsed and on manipulation the hernial protrusion was found to have disappeared. (‘Edin.Med Journ ’ Dec. 1874.) ’’ Tractile method of reducing strangulated hernia.—Dr. Leasme calls attention to inversion of the body as a valuable means of drawing the contents of a hernial sac within the abdomen again. In a number of cases where taxis had failed he has had the patient’s body inverted while under the influence of an anaesthetic, and has then pulled on the tumour slightly and pushed the abdominal walls towards the diaphragm Ly this means the omentum and intestines within the abdomen have