275 PERIOSTEAL FLAPS IN AMPUTATION. marrow, both because they favour the ossification of the marrow and because the contact of marrow with periosteum is less heterogeneous and irritating than that of marrow with muscles and other tissues, io. Suppuration does not destroy the periosteal flaps, lor, when this sets in, union has already taken place between the medulla and the periosteum. ii. The tissue which becomes ossified, whether directly from the periosteum or by the previous formation of cartilage, always, first undergoes a change into osteoid tissue. 12, 13- Th.e cartilaginous callus is already apparent on the fifth day, and its ossification always proceeds from the periphery towards the centre, in the course of the vessels. 14. The newly formed bone has the structure ol true bone. 15. The new bone has a rounded form, and does not irritate the adja- cent parts. 16. The observations above made are applicable both to compact and to spongy bones. The methods of amputation best adapted for the formation, of periosteal flaps are the flap and the circular; the oval and elliptical incisions are less so. The periosteal flaps must be at least twice as long as the greatest diameter of the bone, and not less broad than half its circumference. In the forearm, two periosteal flaps should be formed ; in the leg, one, from the tibia. If the soft parts over the bone be not too thick (as on the tibia) they may be raised with the perios- teum. If, on the other hand, they be very thick, as in the thigh, the flap may be made either of periosteum alone, or with a layer of muscular tissue. Great care is required in sawing the bone, so that it may be divided close to the base of the flap, and that the latter may not be injured by the saw. Conical sUcmps.—In volume xv of the £ Archiv fiir Klinische Chirur- gie,’ P. Giiterbock describes the form of conical stump which arises from hypertrophy of the bone, often notwithstanding that the flaps are sufficiently large and the operation has been correctly performed. These osseous proliferations occur in the early months after the opera- tion. The acute forms follow osteomyelitis, or, rather, acute ostitis or peri- ostitis, the result of separation of the periosteum, the bone being at the same time hyperjemic and at certain points distinctly osteoporotic; or they occur as broad and pointed spongy hyperostoses, at first having a rather firm connection with the bone. They may be present at the end of three weeks. Chronic hyperostosis may occur as the immediate result of an excess in the normal formation ot bone in the course of healing, or in the course of, or after, traumatic diseases. The secondary formation of a medullary cavity, which occurs in many cases, is a process of melting down, of the newly formed bone; the two medullary cavities may become united. The newly formed cavity con- tains red marrow. The cortical substance frequently also becomes spongy. The periosteal proliferation sometimes produces only a layer of cartilage; often, however, there is much thickening of the sawn end by the excessive formation of callus. Haversian canals and lamellse are formed m the new bone. The hyperostosis is sometimes merely spongy, usually also carious. Hot unfrequently, though the ends of the bone remain normal, ossification of the interosseous ligament takes