REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 140 pericardium. The right luug was completely carnified and pushed up against the vertebral column. Nothing is said about any opening between the lung and the pleura. It. Nelson records (‘Lancet,’ 1873, i, 767) an interesting case of rupture of the lung with lisemothorax. A gunner, set. 40, was engaged in digging a trench when he was suddenly buried by a mass of loose gravel. The most marked symptoms during life were intensely loud bronchial rales, great dyspnoea, and after a few days complete dulness, with absence of respiratory murmur, over the whole right side. The patient died on the tenth day. There was no external wound or ecchy- mosis of the chest-walls; the right pleural cavity contained twenty- five ounces of dark fluid blood; the right lung was one fourth its normal size, firm in consistence, and contained only a small quantity of air. A transverse rent about \\ inch long, extended through the pleura pulmonalis and for a short distance into the substance of the lung on the external surface of the middle lobe. The costal pleura was un- injured, and there was no fracture of the ribs. The left lung was emphysematous iu*a most marked degree, the air-vesicles in its upper third being ruptured and formed into cavities as large as a hazel-nut. The bronchial tubes showed signs of subacute inflammation, and were choked with frothy mucus. The surface of the heart was coated with a recent deposit of lymph. The other organs were healthy. Under the heading of “ albuminous expectoration ” (‘ De l’Expectora- tion albumineuse apres la Thoracentese,’ Paris, 1873, pp. 83), Terillon has collected 21 cases in which, as is not uncommon, paracentesis of the chest wall and the sudden removal of the effusion was followed by acute serous effusion into the alveoli of the lung. Two of his cases died from oedema of the lung. He found this “ albuminous expec- toration ” to occur from ten minutes to half an hour after the operation. A discussion as to the cause of the phenomenon is continued by writers, references to whose papers are to be found in the biblio- graphy below. Numerous papers in addition on the same subject may be found in the ‘Union Medicale ’ (vols. xv, xvi, &c. See also review of the subject, ‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1873, 377). Beliier, “ Pleuresies a epauchements moderes, Thoracentese avec trocarts capillaires et aspiration : Appareilsdivers” (cont. from 1872), ‘Gaz. des H6p.,’ 1873,11. Bouchut, “ Nouvelles observations de Pleuresie purulente guerie sans fistule par le ponction avec l’aspirateur Dieulafoy ” (girl, ret. 3, one puncture; girl, set. 10, eleven punctures), ib., 178. Meynet, “ Rhumatisme articulaire aigu survenu dans le cours d’une Blennorrhagie, endopericardite consecutive, epanchement pleuretique, thoracentese, guerison” (boy, set. 17), ‘ Lyon Med.,’ xii, 91 (and see discussion, ib., 107). Lasegue, “ Pleuresie droite, developpee sous l’influence d’un Lymplio-sarcdme en voie de generalisation, autopsie ” (man, set. 49, paracentesis), ‘Arch. Gen.,5 xxiii, 486. ^ Toul- raouche, “ Des difficulties qu’apportent au diagnostic des Epauchements pleuretiques les complications d’etats morbides des poumons, du cceur et de son enveloppe on des oro-anes reuformes dans la cavite de l’abdomen et dans celle du crane, ib. xxii, 129. Laboulbene, “ Nouvelles observations pour etablir la cause de l’Elevation de la Tempe- rature centrale cbez les malades atteints de Pleuresie aigue et auxquels on vient de pia- tiquer la Thoracentese,” ‘Compt. Bend.,’ lxxvi, 446. Rocbs, ‘Ein mehrfacli comphcirter Pall von Pleuritis,’ Berlin, 1873- Lebert, “ Ueber die operative Beliandlung der Brust- fellentziindung,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Wocb.,’i873, 245. v. Heuss “ Ein Troicart zur Thoraco- centese,” ib., 389. Ruppreclit, “ Beitragzur Anwendung der Thoracentese nut Ruck-