874 REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. retracted from the teeth. After the application of leeches on two occa- sions the sight did not improve. The treatment consisted in purgatives, iodide of potassium, protective glasses, and cessation from occupation. At the end of a month the patient resumed work without taking any precautions, and in spite of warning. In two months, date of last note, it is said the veins had gradually become dilated, and appeared more normal, that is, the light streak was less marked. The arteries were less tortuous, but more so than normal. The discs were paler, scarcely at all reddened or blurred at the margins. About eighteen months before, Dr. Schneller had seen a similar case in a painter. Tie had con- gestion of the discs and slight haziness, without dilatation of retinal vessels. He remarks that he considered the optic neuritis proved by the presence of redness, alteration in the margins of the disc, and slight cloudiness of its substance and the immediately adjoining retina. The second point distinguishes this form from choroidal hypersemia, the third from that of simple hyperaemia of the discs. That this optic neuritis proceeds from lead-poisoning is proved by the occupation, the bluish-grey line on the gums, the costive stools, the greyish cachectic colour of the skin, the relapse on resuming the occu- pation without precaution, and the absence of other etiological influences. These peculiarities appear in connection with tolerably marked congestion of the discs—without disease of the choroid and retina—with slight haziness of the optic disc, with slight differentiation between the veins and arteries, and with marked tortuosity of the arteries. The changes in the veins, which, together with the tortuosity of the arteries, disappeared as the other symptoms receded, could not be due to thickening of the walls of the vessels, for there were no accompany- ing whitish streaks. Neither could they be due to diminution of the blood-pressure in the retinal arteries, as these did not contain less blood than usual. They are therefore to be ascribed to a morbid con- dition of the vascular muscular tissue, which is analagous to the symptoms of lead-colic. This may produce a stagnation of blood and congestion of the capillaries and arteries of the retina, which may share in the congestion of the disc, and may at all events produce the tortuosity of the arteries, while it is not sufficient to dilate the arteries. Anatomical researches on typical retinitis 'pigmentosa.—Dr. Landolt narrates two cases of retinitis pigmentosa. The first patient was a man. In both eyes there were anterior and posterior polar cataracts, a few delicate films in the vitreous, complete atrophy of the optic nerves, the vessels were much diminished in size, their walls were partially apparent as white streaks, but in the periphery no vessels could be detected. The retina throughout the whole equatorial region, extend- ing to the neighbourhood of the disc and some distance into the periphery, was beset with dark pigment arranged in the form of a network or of bone-corpuscles. The layer of pigment epithelium was almost devoid of pigment. At isolated points only were there roundish or annular heaps of pigment. There was no evidence of exudation 01 other change underneath this layer. His parents were not related, and