282 REPORT ON SURGERY. evidences of osteo-myelitis. One rigor followed the amputation and secondary abscesses formed in the axilla, on the surface of the os calcis and in the abdominal wall, the latter sometime after the stump was healed -The patient recovered. Of twenty-seven cases hitherto reported live ended fatally and in one amputation was performed. The author thinks that when in any given case the conditions are such that the surgeon is really in doubt whether to excise or amputate, it is better to amputate. Excision ol the knee is not an operation to be undertaken unless the patient’s condition is good. (£St. Thos. Hosp. Rep.,’ iii, 1872, 25c,) JSxcision of the anlcle. Mr. Sydney Jones has had a successful case in a lad of ijj. The parts became firmly auchylosed afterwards, and the limb was shapely and useful. (‘ St. Thos. Hosp. Rep.,’ iii, 1872, 278 ) Dr. Joseph Bell showed to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edinburgh the bones of the ankle-joint and tarsus which he had recently removed by Syme’s amputation from a boy, set. 12. The specimen was interesting from the fact that about a year previonsly he had excised the ankle-joint for disease of the j oint and of the lower end of the tibia, by the subperiosteal method. Bone was very extensively reproduced and the patient made a good recovery from the operation, but unfortunately disease again recurred in the tarsus. The lower end of the tibia was quite as large as the other one, though it had been entirely removed. (‘EdindMed. Jour.,’April, 1874.) Primary excision of the ankle-joint.—Dr. Landis reports a case in a lad of 15. The knives of a mowing machine struck the left ankle from without, cutting off the external malleolus, shaving a thin segment from the top of the astragalus and completely exposing the joint, leav- ing the foot attached to the leg by a thin flap over the internal malleolus, three inches in breadth, but in which the posterior tibial vessels and nerves lay uninjured. Dr. Miner sawed off the articulat- ing surface of the tibia and the projection of the internal malleolus, enough of the astragalus was also removed to insure neat apposition. Carbolic acid solution was unremittingly used during the after treat- ment. Anchylosis followed and there was every promise of the foot being very useful. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1874.) Mr. Lee records the following case. A man was admitted into St. George’s Hospital with a compound dislocation of the ankle-joint, the lower ends of the tibia and fibula projecting through a wound on the outer side. The protruding extremities of the bones were sawn off; the foot was then turned still further inwards and the articulating surface of the astragalus removed. The internal malleolus was broken off and was left with the internal ligament attached. The patient recovered without ? any unfavorable symptom. He could walk five miles or more. The leg was about half an inch shorter than the other. A representation of the condition of the ankle after recovery is given. (Mr. Lee claims that this is the first case on record of complete ex- cision. He alludes to a case mentioned by Mr. Maunder, however, and a case occurred at the London Hospital in 1868, under the care of Mr. L. S. Little. In the latter case, the ends of the tibia and fibula and the articular surface of the astragalus were removed, the patient making an excellent recovery.—Ed.) Mr. Lee insists on the greater ease