143 BRONCHITIS, PNEUMONIA, ETC. mends insufflation of powders containing equal paits of chloride of quinia aud bicarbonate of soda (1-3—2grs.) and double the quantity of (rum arabic. These powders are to be used night and morning, to be blown into the trachea while the child takes a deep inspiration in the act of crying, the tongue being pulled forward and fixed by the little finger of the left hand. This treatment leads to rapid disappearance of the peculiar spores from the sputa. He gives three drawings showing the presence of the spores within and on the epithelium of the alveoli. Weiss, “ Petroleum cm Mittel gegen Keuchhusten ? ” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 2n2. Wilde, “ Zur Therapie des Keuclikustens ” (by inhalations of chloroform mixed with tether and oil of turpentine), ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ xiv, 261. Wockenstein, “ Zur Kenntniss der Kational-therapie des Stickhustens [Tussis convulsiva] ” (experiments on rabbits, cats, and dogs), ‘ Centralbl.,’ .18 74, 868. Letzerich, “ Neue Untersuchungen iiher den Keuchhusten, Tussis convulsiva, Pertussis uud iiber die Entwickelung des Keuchhustenpilzcs,” £ Yircli. Arch.,’ lx, 409 (with plate). Porter, “ Chloral in Per- tussis” (12 cases), ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xviii, 179. Pneumonia. T. Jiirgensen discusses (‘Volkm. Vortrage,’ No. 45) the treatment of croupous pneumonia, death during which occurs, he thinks, from failing power of heart. The treatment ought, therefore, to be directed on the principle of guarding against it, or combating it when it does occur. For the first he orders baths and quinine during the febrile stage; for the latter, repeated counter-irritants, strong wine, and in the cases of collapse musk and champagne. Under these means he has lost latterly 24 out of 200 cases. Fismer compares (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ xi, 391) the results of the cold- water treatment of 230 cases of pneumonia, in the hospital at Bale, from the middle of 1867 to that of 1871, with a like number of cases treated in earlier years without baths. He finds the mortality very much lessened, though the fatal character of pneumonia has increased in the town. He gives tables of temperature-curves and comparisons between the two sides of the lungs, the two sexes, and the seasons of the year most characterised by the affection. A. Hermann (‘Allg. Wien. Med. Zeitg.,’ 1873, No. 46) opposes Jiirgensen’s views, basing his own arguments on 163 cases of simple pneumonia, of which he gives comparative tables. H. Schlesinger (‘ Zur Statiskik der genuinen fibrosen Pneumonie,’ Berlin, 1873) found the right lung the seat of pneumonia in 31 cases, the left in 21, and both in 7. In 32 cases the lower lobes only were affected, the right in 23, the left in 9 ; in 14 the upper lobes only, the right in 13, the left in 1. The mortality was 18 per cent., partly from complications. It rose in proportion to age, the patients being between the ages of 16 and 68. F. E. Anstie publishes (‘Lancet,’ 1874, i, 393) a case of double pneumonia following pericarditis in a man, set. 31, who eventually recovered. A chart is given showing side by side the fluctuations of urea, urinary water, temperature, pulse, respiration, amount of absolute alcohol administered in the shape of brandy, and the amount of ingoing- nitrogen in food. 00