.Report on practical medicine. ease8 it is dry and fissured, and imprinted by the teeth,and may be the seat o ip itheritic deposit. The gums, buccal mucous membrane, and hard pa a e, are not affected in scarlet fever; the lips become red and fis- suitc m severe cases ; the nose also is generally unaffected (in opposition o what occurs in measles). The larynx, in some rai’e cases, may be the seat of a primary affection (croup, diphtheria). L Kugelmann, ‘ Die Behandlung der acuten Exautheme (Masern, Scharlach, Blattern) durch continuirliche Ventilation,’ Hanover, 1873. T. Simon, “ Ueher Scharlach und Scharlach-ahnliche Ausschlage (Secundaren Pocken-Rash) im Ver- lauf der Variola,” ‘Arch. f. Derm.,’ v, 103. IT. Mayer, “Ueber die Anwendung der antipyretischen Methode bei fieherhaften Kranklieiten der Kinder,” ‘ Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ vi, 271. Scarlet Fever. Henoch gives (‘fieri. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 593) several cases of ne- phritis after scarlet fever. In the first there was oedema without the presence of albumen or casts in the urine. Three days later the child had an ursemic attack, and his urine, withdrawn by a catheter, was loaded with albumen and granular casts. The autopsy showed intense parenchymatous nephritis. The second case, a child, tet. 6, had a slight attack of scarlet fever, and a fortnight later had oedema of the face, scanty urine, with abundant albumen, blood-cells, and “ lymph-cor- puscles.” Gradually the urine became normal, but a few days later again became largely albuminous. Henoch noticed in the case of three children that their urine, which contained only traces of albumen, became loaded with it after fits of temper and crying; and in another child that after a purgative the urine in the morning was free from albumen, though it contained a certain amount of it in the evening. He found parenchymatous nephritis post mortem in a case in which no albumen had been found during life. He puts the question whether under these circumstances there occurs a nephritis without albuminous urine, or dropsy without nephritis ; and remarks that partial oedema, especially of the feet, may be only a symptom of debility, without nephritis. In one of his cases there was a suppression of urine for seven days, when the patient died from an ursemic attack. He looks upon the following as tolerably certain appearances to be found in autopsies of scarlet fever cases:—Broncho-pneumonia; fatty degene- ration, especially of the right heart; fatty liver; and swelling of the intestinal follicles and the lymphatic glands. G. Bayles, “Scarlet Fever: Suggestions concerning its Treatment,” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xviii, 225. S. W. Baker, “Scarlatina ” (treatment by venesection, pur- gatives, calomel; mention of epidemic of 1832, in which only five died out of 247 cases), ‘ Boston Med. Surg. Journ.,’ lxxxix, 468. A. W. Foot, “ Enlargement of the Solitary Glands of the Ileon, latent Scarlet Fever’’(girl, net. 10, symptoms of ordinary cold, pleuro-pneumonia, albuminuria, death, peeling of the skin of the palms, swelling of all the solitary glands of the small intestine and of the mesenteric glands; Peyer’s patches and the glands of the large intestine normal), ‘ Duhl. Journ.,’ lvi, 264. « Outbreak of Scarlatina at Brentford,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1873, ii, 46/-(W. E. S. Stanley, “ Scarlatina during the Puerperal State,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874* 3^6. J. l’aylor, « The Wet Sheet in Scarlatina,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1874, ii, 692. H. Courtenay Fox, “ Statis- tics of Scarlatina,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 18741 h, 577>