361 REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. own experience of the epidemic which prevailed in the North Surrey Schools at Anerley. lie says— J “ Anerley is now in a very good state as to ophthalmia. The child- ren actually at Anerley showed a smaller per-centage of active ophthalmia than those of any other school, so that for administrative purposes the North Surrey School is now the very best of all the schools in regard to this disease. Nor statistical purposes, however it is necessary to include forty-three North Surrey children who are now at Margate, and most of whom were sent there by the advice of the managers, when the Bow Branch Ophthalmic School was closed. These forty-three children include all the most intractable of the ophthalmic cases which were at Bow, and when they are added to the main bulk of the children the total per-centage of cases with symptoms of active disease is raised, and the position of the school as a whole depressed to a corresponding degree. The per-centage of corneal dam- ages (including those at Margate) is below the average, and the other records of past disease, though sufficiently abundant, are far less than at several other schools. It is well known that Anerley has earned an unenviable notoriety for ophthalmia. In 1862-63 a severe epidemic occurred. It began in August, 1862, and after it had lasted about a year the late Mr. Poland was called in and made a special report. He found the disease then declining in virulence, but it had within the year caused the loss of four eyes and severe damage of six or eight others. Its origin was attributed to the importation of a severe case of purulent ophthalmia from St. Pancras, although mild cases had been well known in the school before. In 1867 there was a great deal of ophthalmia, and it was chiefly on account of a continuance of the disease that the spacious new infirmary was built in 1868. The disease, however, continued very troublesome, and in October, 1870, Mr. Critehett was asked to visit the school, the result being a report containing suggestions which it is much to be regretted were not carried out at once. Mr. Critehett found a large proportion of mild ophthalmia which in most cases did not render the patients incapable of following the usual educational course, and he advised the establishment of a ward or separate school where all such cases might be kept for an indefinite time until it was quite certain that they would not relapse, where they might be under such special hygienic and medical treatment as seemed necessary, where their instruction and education should, go on as if they were in the body of the school, and where by prolonged isolation they might be pre- vented from acting as sources of contagion to the healthy children in the school. No action was taken on this advice, and the same state of things continued, and was intensified by ‘ great administrative neglect, neces- sitating considerable changes in the staff of the establishment.’ (Dr. Bridges.) By the spring of 1873 the disease had been to some extent got under by the perseverance of the medical officer at Anerley, and by such reforms of administration as circumstances made possible at the time; but a good deal still remained to be done when practical