267 PY/EMIA, ETC.—TEMPERATURE. Berkeley’s Hill’s observations in connection with the hut hospitals at Saarbruck are quoted. It is not mere over-crowding, it is the nature of the cases which gives rise to septic disease. As regards local treat- ment the essential points are scrupulous attention to cleanliness, absence of impurity (freedom from decomposable matter), and close personal supervision. Mr. Lister’s antiseptic treatment and Mr. Cal- lender’s method of managing stumps seem to leave nothing to be desired. The Hospital Plagues.—In a clinical lecture with this titlejMr. Hutchinson gives a short account of erysipelas, pyaemia, septicaemia, and hospital gangrene. He insists on prompt and systematic isolation of all contagious cases. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’Deb. 7, 1874.) Pyaemia.—Mr. Henry Smith records two cases of pyaemia following simple operations in private practice. The patients were young adults. The operations were tying varicose veins and circumcision. (‘ Lancet,’ March 14, 1874.) Dr. Moxon contributes some remarks to the ‘ Lancet,’ Nov. 14, 1874. The discussion on this subject at the Clinical Society (Oct. 1873) has been fully reported in the medical journals and is given in detail in vol. vii of the ‘ Transactions.’ We have no space for any sufficient abstract here. Mr. Jessop remarks on an epidemic of septicaemia which occurred at the Leeds G-eneral Infirmary. He tabulates cases of pyaemia and ery- sipelas. It was specially fatal during a period of three weeks. (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Sept. 6, 1874.) Erysipelas.—Mr. Savory discusses the nature and affinities of ery- sipelas, and is of opinion that it cannot in the face of the evidence we possess be regarded as simply a local disease, nor, again, as a specific fever. Looking at the mode in which it may be communicated, it cannot be doubted that the mischief is excited by matter of some sort, which is transferred from one person to another, and that the poison when it enters the system passes into and circulates with the blood. It belongs to that class of diseases which result from blood poisoning, of which pyaemia is the type. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 4, 1873, 3.) Mr. Callender tabulates cases showing the varying time which lay between the rise in pulse and temperature and the recognition of the rash. (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ x, 137.) Mr. Tibbitts notes that while erysipelas prevailed during certain months in the Bristol Royal Infirmary, it was also at the same time plentiful outside the hospital. (‘ Lancet,’ June 13, 1874.) A case followed ly puerperal peritonitis.—Dr. Crawford. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1873.) Temperature.—Mr. Callender calls attention to the slight causes which will sometimes induce a considerable elevation of temperature. In one of his cases, a male, set. 29, who had been operated on for stone four days before, the temperature rose from 990 to 103° in association with pain in the groins, which passed off in a few hours, and the cause of which was not apparent. In another patient, a male, set. 39, who had a severe cut of the forearm, the temperature rose from 990 to 104° owing to uneasiness from swinging of the limb. In a third patient, a male, set. 6, who was going on well after lithotomy, the temperature rose