DEEORllITlES OP THE PELVIS AND DYSTOCIA BY THE MOTHER. 429 may infer that the deatli of the foetus has taken place. Dr. Schlesmger, feeling that, before any definite conclusions could be arrived at, 1 was uecessary to ascertain if there is any difference between the tem- perature of the uterus and the vagina in the non-pregnant condition, has made several investigations and finds that the temperature of t ic uterus is higher than that of the vagina even in non-pregnant women ; he concludes that both in the pregnant and the non-pregnant uterus, the temperature is higher than in the vagina, but that the temperature of the gravid uterus is higher than that ol the non-gravid. ( lied. Times and Gazette,’ 1874.) Deformities of the Pelvis and Dystocia by the Mother. Dr. Sassmann reports (‘Arch, fur Gynak.,’ v, 2, 1873) a case of congenital double luxation of the hip in a girl of 18. This is the twenty- ninth case published. The general configuration of the pelvis cor- responds with the description given by Gueniot. The pelvic inlet had undergone a transverse compression and the transverse diameter is narrowed. The pelvic inclination is considerable. The author then gives the cause and the mechanism of these malformations and the in- fluence they have upon pregnancy and labour. Dr. Lambert IT. Ormsby writes on deformities of the pelvis (‘Medical Press and Circular,’ 1874.) Dr. C. Hennig writes on the advanced forms of osteomalacia (‘Archiv f. Gynak.,’ v, 3.) He first gives a detailed account of 3 cases; in the first, the pelvis was deformed in a high degree, and Caesarean sec- tion was performed; in the second, the osteomalacia was complicated by hyperostosis ; the third occurred in a sterile woman. The author then"reviews the various opinions and theories that have been held on this subject, and refers to experiments made upon animals, horses, cows, &c. The great object of the paper is to give prominence to the relation between osteomalacia and pregnancy and labour. The follow- ing facts are quoted, taken from a considerable number of cases. Labour took place naturally in 17 cases ; 2 women had natural labours twice; 3 had natural labours three times; and one had even eight natural labours. The labours were mostly severe. Premature labour occurred spontaneously in 4 cases. In 4 cases premature labour was induced. Eight women were delivered by turning. The forceps were applied 2j times. Perforation and cephalotripsy were performed in eleven cases. In 5 cases rupture of the uterus occurred before any operation could be performed. The Caesarean section wa3 performed on 36 women, eleven recovered ; 19 children were saved. Dr. G. Leopold writes (‘Archiv fUr Gynak.,’ v, 3, 1873) on mal- formations of the pelvis due to congenital or acquired unilateral luxations of the hip-joint; this paper is based upon 12 cases which he has arranged in a table. The following are the most important con- clusions. The pelvis is always atrophied on the side corresponding to the luxation. The exercise of the lower limbs always increases the transverse diameters of the superior and inferior strait; if the lower limbs are not used the superior strait becomes narrower in young sub- jects, but wider in the adult. The outlet is narrowed in every case.