OPHTHALMIA IN PAUPER SCHOOLS. 363 i of them (losing both eyes) is accompanied and much increased by disease of the cornea due to inherited syphilis, and may improve after SGIL Severe damages (patient unable with the damaged eye to dis- tinguish small objects at all, or at best only with difficulty and w en held close to the eyes; enough sight for various household or other unskilled employments). Total, 66 children.—Both eyes . • 35 x eye each . • 31 6 of these (2 with both eyes damaged, 4 with one eye each) occurred outside the schools. 10 cases are likely to improve. _ _ . . . 8 are accompanied and increased by inherited syphilitic disease. III. Moderate damage (patient partially disabled for seeing small objects, e.g. needlework and reading, but able to do these with more or less difficulty). Total, 229 children.—Both eyes . 147 1 eye each . 82 6 of these (3 with both eyes damaged, 3 with one eye each) occurred outside the schools. 13 cases (9 both damaged, 6 with one eye each) will probably improve. 6 cases (4 both damaged, 2 with one each) are likely to get worse. 4 cases are accompanied and increased by heredito-syphilitic disease. IY. Slight damage (sight a little impaired by small specks at or close to the centre of the cornea). Total, 358 children.—Both eyes . 144 1 eye each . 214 11 cases (4 with both damaged, 7 with one eye each) will improve. 6 cases (2 with both damaged, 4 with one eye each) are likely to get worse. Y. Very slight damage (cases like the former but slight in degree). Total, 78 children.—Both eyes . .21 1 eye each . -57 YI. No damage (opacities and irregularities which from their position could not interfere at all with sight). Total, 21 children.—Both eyes . . 4 1 eye each . 17 No attempt was made to ascertain how many of the damages headed “ slight ” and “ very slight” had occurred before the children entered the schools ; but there is evidence to show that most of the slighter damages have occurred in the schools, while with regard to the great majority of the graver ones there is no doubt at all that this is the case. The total number of corneal damages from all other causes (non- ophthalmic damages) was 59, or just '66 per cent, of all the children. The Report then proceeds to detailed accounts of the ophthalmic state of each school separately; but the only one of these accounts which possesses any general interest is that in which the author describes his