313 HERNIA 01<’ THE TRACHEA. result of the operation was successful. (‘ Gazette Medicale de Paris,’ March 7, 1874.) . e , Polypus in the trachea.—M. Krishaber related at a meeetmg of the Surgical Society of Paris, on February 1874, the case °f a aged thirty-two months, who had suffered for four weeks from cough and paroxysms of threatening suppuration, as if it had croup. Tracheotomy was performed, but no membrane was found, and in two days the canula was removed. For some days afterwards the breathing was some- times free, sometimes difficult. On the seventeenth day the child had a severe attack of dypsnoea, and died suddenly while being undressed for examination. A polypus of the size of a pea was found at the third or fourth tracheal ring. Hernia of the trachea.—At a meeting of the Surgical Society of Paris, on October 1, 1873 (‘Gazette des Hopitaux,’ 1873, 129), M. H. Devalz related a case of tracheocele which had come under his notice. Ten years previously, while suffering from an attack of bronchitis attended with violent cough, the man observed a swelling in the middle of his neck, which rapidly increased. It was at first supposed to be a goitre. Devalz perceived a peculiar murmur, audible with the patient’s voice, and sounding somewhat like a very softly uttered “ uwuwu.” The width of the neck at the lower part was increased by strong expiration ; when the patient coughed a pyriform swelling was formed on each side of the trachea, giving the appearance of hypertrophy of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland. On inspiration the swelling collapsed. The right lobe of the swelling extended as far as the clavicle ; the left did not. The appearance of the swelling could be prevented by pressing on the trachea. The tumour had a smooth surface, was soft, and readily compressible. Examination of the chest gave normal results, except that in the right subclavian region there were amphoric breathing and pectoriloquy, which ceased when pressure was made on the trachea. The opening in the .trachea could not be found by palpitation. M. Devalz advised the patient to press on the trachea during coughing, so as to retard the further increase of the sac. Faucon relates, in the ‘Archives Medicales Beiges,’ for January, 1874, two cases of tracheocele or hernia of the mucous membrane of the trachea. In the neighbourhood of Arras, he had had under his care a man, set. 54, who had, to the right of his trachea, a swell- ing of the size of a hen’s egg, like a one-sided bronchocele. It dif- fered from this, however, in being soft and elastic, and in being in- creased in size by coughing, hawking, and blowing the nose. ^The increase could be felt on the application of the hand. Between the larynx and the sternum, on the right side, was a tumour flattened from before backward, divided into two lobes, of which the upper was the smaller; they had the feel of a rabbit’s bladder distended with air. 1 lessure on the vessels above and below produced no change in the tumour. Percussion gave a tympanic sound, establishing the diagnosis of a hernial protrusion of the trachzal mucous membrane, filled with air7 ,e Patient had had the swelling for ten years. It was at first of the size of a walnut, it commenced above and extended downwards At first it appeared only when the man exerted himself, and receded