REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. . 8 Kolliker, ‘Verliand. d. Phys. Med. Ges. in Wurzburg, 111, 315, and ‘London 48 brata. The endoderm has in all metazoaries the same anatomical value, ior the study of the origin of the essential organs of generation M. v. Beneden selected zoophytes, in which animals the ectoderm and endoderm persist almost unaltered throughout the whole course of evolution. lie finds that the ova in Hydractinia and Clava are only the modified cells of the endoderm, which the testis develops at the expense of a cellular hud which proceeds from the inner face of the ectoderm. The male organ arises from the nervous or animal layer ; the female organ pro- ceeds from the intestinal or vegetative layer, and fecundation consists in a simple mixture of ectodermic elements with a product of the endo- derm. Moreover M. v. Beneden has shown that every sporosac origin- ally contains within itself the rudiments of an ovary and of a testis; and if this observation be associated with the researches of Waldeyer on the Vertebrata and the established fact that all animals possess an endoderm and an ectoderm,, the conclusion is forced upon us that every animal is primarily hermaphrodite. In accordance, however, with the development of one or the other, the testis or ovary remains in a rudi- mentary condition. Histology. Various papers have been written upon the histology of the different tissues. Amongst the more important are those of Lowe 1 on the struc- ture of the connective tissue, who finds that all fissures and lacunas in the connective tissues are serous cavities. Spina2 and Ditlevsen3 on the structure of tendons, Deutschmann4 and Hertwig5 have written on the development of elastic fibres in reticular cartilage. Deutschmann considers that they are developed from the cartilage cells as a whole, including both the capsule and the contained protoplasm. They first appear as very fine striae which gradually increase in size. This seems to be the view of Hertwig also. Cartilage. Iiitzmann3 gives an account of the cellular elements of bone and of the structure of hyaline cartilage with the changes occurring in them in inflammation. See also Ch. Bobin’s6 £ Observations comparatives sur la moelle des os.’ Kolliker 8 describes the mode in which Howship’s lacunae and absorp- tion cavities are formed in bone, and is of opinion that they result from the action of certain large protoplasmic cells, termed osteoclasts, which possess several nuclei, and are probably the descendants of the proper bone-forming cells or osteoblasts. See also J. v. Bustizky.0 ‘ Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,’ 1784, p. I45- ‘ Strieker’s Med. Jabrb.,’ 1873, Heft iii. ‘Abstract in Centralblatt,’ 1873, p. 670. ‘Centralblatt fur die Med. Wiss.,’ 1874, p. 273. ‘Max Scbultze’s Arcbiv,’ 1872, B. ix, pp. 80—100. ‘Strieker’s Med. Jabrb.,’ vol. iv, 1872, and ‘ London Medical Record, vol. 1, pp. 52, 69, which contains a full abstract by Klein. 7 Journ. de l’Anat. et de la Phys.,’ 1874, p. 35* ... Medical Record,’ vol. i, p. 7°- , „ „, 9 Rustizky, ‘ Untersucliuugen iiber Knochenresorption und Riesenzellen.