474 4 Ibid., p. 456. REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. part beyond the ligature gradually becomes red and ultimately of a livid hue from venous hypersemia. If complete cessation of the cir- culation and death has occurred no such changes are observed in the ligatured part, and hence his diagnosis of apparent death is rendered comparatively easy. M. Rosenthal1 is of opinion that the changes in the electrical ex- citability of the muscles at death afford a good means of distinguishing between real and apparent death. Shortly after death—from one and a half to three hours on an average—the muscles cease to react to electrical stimulation. By this method of electrical excitation Rosen- thal was able to diagnose a case of apparent death lasting for forty-four hours, and thus prevented interment. Dr. Devergie2 contributes an exhaustive report to the Drench Academy of Medicine on the signs of death, apropos of a prize offered by the Academy for the best essay on the subject. The memoir con- tains a summary of all that is known on the subject, but is unsuited for abstraction. The persistence of the expression of the physiognomy at the moment of death.—Drs. Brinton and Nendurfer3 relate several instances of the persistence of the exact expression of the face at the moment of sudden death. There is, however, a fear that stories of such cases are not well authenticated. Dr. Rossbach,4 however, takes up the question and discusses it in a scientific manner in a paper on “ Cadaveric Rigidity commencing immediately after Death.” He distinguishes between the several forms of this peculiar kind of cadaveric rigidity, and classifies them into—(i) The conservation of the physiogno- mical expression, so that it expresses the sentiments which it may be supposed the individual was experiencing at the moment of death. (2) The cases in which it may be concluded from the attitude of the corpse that death has supervened when the muscles were in a state of rigid contraction. (3) A group of cases in which the attitude of the corpse is extremely easy and graceful, as if no change had been undergone at the moment of death. Dr. Rossbach summarises his couclusions (drawn from an obviously insufficient number of cases) as follows:— 1. In the majority of cases death relaxes the muscles completely, and this whether the muscles at the last moment of life be in an energetic or feeble state of contraction. Hence cadaveric rigidity seizes the muscles when they are in a state of relaxation and within a period of from five minutes to twenty-four hours of the last respiration. The position and attitude of the limbs in the greater number of corpses hence depends on the conditions which obtained at the moment of death, or on the form and attitude voluntarily imparted to these mem- bers immediately after death or whilst they were still supple. 2. But there is also a form of cadaveric rigidity which supervenes suddenly and immediately to active muscular contraction during life, without pre- ceding relaxation. In these cases the attitude of the deceased is the 1 ‘Wien. Med. Presse/ Nos. 18, 19, 1872. 2 ‘ Ann. d’Hyg./ [2] xli, p. 380. 3 Ibid. [2], xxxvii, p. 454.