itilPOET ON SuitGEKi'. purulent synovitis, and even fungous disease and the artificially filled joint. No conclusion, however, can be drawn as to the result of permanent extension from the rapid momentary extension applied to the dead body. In a case of suppurative inflammation of the knee, in which the joint was opeued, a weight of thirty pounds was applied, with the effect of rendering the escape of the secretion free, and reducing the patient’s temperature from high fever heat to the normal standard. In cases of acute purulent or serous gonitis, where immobilisation and the application of cold have had no effect, distraction may be tried, but with care, for if the joint has been brought into a state of flexion by the filling of the capsule, the extension which precedes distraction produces an increase of the intra-articular pressure, and may thus lead to rupture of the capsule. In such cases, the fluid contents of the joint should be removed by puncture (and aspiration). In chronic hydrarthrosis, Eeyher does not expect much from distrac- tion ; in any case not so much as from forcible compression. The action of extension in fungous gonitis is explained by Eeyher more by the immobilisation, the increase of the intra-articular pressure, and the change of the points of contact of the cartilages, than by a dimi- nution of the pressure of the parts of the joint against each other. Caries of the knee-joint treated by the local application of sulphuric acid.—Mr. J. Warrington Haward relates the case of a boy, aged 8, suffering from chronic synovitis of the knee, with formation of abscesses, sinuses, &c. He was much reduced by the disease. On examination under ether, the ligaments of the knee were found to be destroyed, allowing free lateral motion; the cartilage was removed from a great part of both articular surfaces and the joint ends had numerous carious patches on them. A solution of sulphuric acid (one part of strong acid to two of water) was then applied to the carious joint ends and to the suppurating synovial membrane; the constitutional dis- turbance was scarcely at all increased by this proceeding, but at the end of a week numerous parchment-like sloughs came away through the openings into the joint and the amount of discharge and pain began rapidly to diminish and the health quickly improved. Two months after the application of the acid, the sinuses had all healed, but one; the boy was free from pain and quite cheerful, had gained flesh and could eat and sleep well. Scott’s dressing was applied and the joint kept in a splint for four months, when the bones seemed firmly anchy- losed. The result was good and permanent. (£ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v., p. 13.) Anchylosis and ulceration of the knee joint following long rest in the extended position, from a case of ununited fracture of the femur treated with steel pegs.—The patient was a woman aged jo. After long treat- ment (unattended by any complaint of pain or sign of disease about the knee) the limb was amputated. Firm anchylosis of the knee and “pitting” ulcerations of the cartilages were found. The anchylosis was first observed six months after the injury. The holes formed by the pegs had increased in size ; thus the long continuance of the pegs in