200 HE POUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, ii. New Growths. General Papers. The occurrence of local tumours has been noticed as far as possible under the different organs. The following papers are either concerned with the development and spread of various new growths, malignant, or otherwise, or contain accounts of interesting cases which could scarcely be referred to auy particular region or organ. G. Herrenkohl (‘ Wucherungen der Endothelien bei Pathologischen Neubildungen,’ Bonn, 1873, pp. 27) has paid special attention to the growth of the endothelial cells covering the trabeculae of the peri- toneum, in two cases of miliary tuberculosis, and three of infective peritonitis. Through increase in the generally scanty protoplasm followed by division of nuclei and nucleoli, giant-cells were produced, each of which became divided into two smaller, many-nucleated cells. So far as his two cases seem to prove, the origin of tubercle is in the growth of these endothelial cells alone, while he leaves as an open question the share these latter take in the produc- tion of pus-cells and peritoneal adhesions. While emigrated leucocytes are engaged in the process of suppuration, it is impossible that they are concerned in the development of tubercle, which is found on those trabeculae only which are destitute of blood-vessels. G. Bizzozero (“ Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Baues des Epithelioms; ” ‘ Wien. Med Journ.,’ 1873, 121) found, in a case of epithelioma of the cheek, a close relation between the cell-nests and the blood-vessels, together with collections of amoeboid corpuscles between the masses of cells. The connective-tissue stroma which enclosed the epithelial cells formed a network with wide meshes, the cells lying along the trabe- culae being arranged vertically between the irregularly disposed “ serrated” and “ ridged cells. Eresh-boiled specimens showed nume- rous amoeboid cells strewn among them, which in hardened specimens treated with carmine revealed the same number of nuclei as ordinary wandering-cells. No development of amoeboid into epithelial cells was observed. These hardened preparations also showed, between the aggregations of cells and the connective-tissue sheaths, lacunae ana- logous to those of certain lymph-glands, the walls of which were clothed with a layer of nucleated endothelial cells, containing rolls of red blood-cells, evidently dilated venous channels. Vajda (“ Ueber Entstehung des Epthelialkrebses und Begeneration des Epithels im Allgemeinen,” ‘Centralbl.,’ 1873, 383), in a prelimi- nary notice, gives his reasons for holding that the walls of the blood- vessels are the starting-point of the epithelial cancer. He classifies the results of his observations as follows:—1. A vascular system of very fine calibre is the first origin of all epithelial new growths, the elements of which stand in the closest relation to the cell-nuclei of the vessel walls from which they are produced. 2. An endogenous development of nuclei goes on in the nuclei of the wall, or less fre- quently in the epithelial cells which are in direct connection with the blood-vessels, the cells being completed by the building up round the new nuclei of the proto- or, as \yould be more correct to say in this