52 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. dition in other animals; and of discovering how small a quantity would produce such condition, and whether the septic power of the blood might be modified by dialysis, boiling, &c. Of two dogs, one was inoculated with 8 cm. of putrid ox blood, and died on the sixth day, after well-marked symptoms of fever. The second was inoculated with the same amount of blood taken from the first dog, but presented only slight symptoms of disturbance. The other animals experimented upon were guinea-pigs and rabbits, to the number of 123. Of 23 rabbits inoculated with healthy blood, only 4 died ; of 68 inoculated with blood taken from artificially infected animals (Durchgangsblut), 54 died ; and of 23 inoculated with putrid blood, n died. Boiling had very little effect, and dialysis none, in modifying the septic power; while in the case of animals inoculated with blood, which had been previously distilled or digested in alcohol, no death occurred. The autopsies of the fatal cases showed suppurative infiltration of the skin and subcutaneous tissue in the neighbourhood of the punctures ; in addition to the presence of ordinary pus-cells, the writers found count- less large and small, round or irregular, granules, as to the nature of which they express no opinion. In some of the cases there was swell- ing, and in one ulceration of Peyer’s patches. J. B. Sanderson (“ On the Infective Product of Acute Inflamma- tion,” £ Med. Chir. Trans.,’ lvi, 345) gives the results of researches made during the early part of 1872 for the purpose of elucidating the pathology of acute secondary inflammation. The intention of the paper is to show—1. That in all acute suppurative inflammations the exuda- tion liquids exhibit, if they are introduced either into the circulating blood, the serous cavities, or the cellular tissue, poisonous or infective properties. 2. That these properties manifest themselves in two directions, viz., in the production of increase of temperature, and in giving rise to secondary inflammation. 3. That the increase of tem- perature is the direct result of the presence of the poisonous or infective agent in the circulating blood. 4. That the secondary inflammations are of two kinds, which may be distinguished from each other by the terms acute and chronic, and that the acute secondary inflammations differ from the chronic, not merely as regards duration, but as regards their anatomical characters. The writer arrives at no conclusion as to the nature of the substance to which the pyrogenic property of exu- dation is due. The first part of the paper is taken up with a discus- sion as to the nature of the process of inflammation, with a view to the consideration of the manner in which a primary inflammation gives rise, on the one hand, to general constitutional disturbance, i. e., fever; and’ on the other, to the establishment of new foci of inflammation in other parts remote from the original seat of irritation or injury.. In the second part an account is given of certain preliminary inquiries conducted in 1867-68. In the third and concluding part he states the necessity of exercising extreme caution in drawing inferences. But he thinks it has been shown (1) that that combination ol malignant lever with intense and destructive inflammation to which the term septi- caemia has been rightly applied, inasmuch as clinically and experimen- tally it is known to result from the existence in the blood oi putresceut