REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. 858 C. The connection between the ophthalmic state and the mode of life in these schools. D. The relation of the ophthalmic state to age and sex in tho schools, E. The influence which conditions independent of school-life have on the ophthalmic state of the children in the schools. E. Whether it is practicable to get rid of ophthalmia almost entirely from the metropolitan pauper children without abolishing the schools, and if so by what means. A.—The Ophthalmic State of the Schools collectively. Prefatory description and definition.—Before passing to the details of this division it is necessary to describe shortly what is meant in the Keport by ophthalmia and its consequences. It would be out of place to dwell on the distinctions between different kinds of ophthalmia further than to say that two distinct types of diseased action are generally found united in the cases which occur in the schools, and not unfrequently in those occurring outside the schools also. One of these is the chronic disease known as “granular lids ” or “ granular ophthal- mia,” a state which comes on in men and many lower animals under various unhealthy circumstances, and of which prolonged exposure to air made impure by organic matter and excess of moisture is probably the cause. The other includes all kinds and degrees of acute inflam- mation of the conjunctiva from the slightest attack due to wind, dust, or various other causes to the severest forms of purulent ophthalmia. Cases are sometimes still further complicated by obstinate inflammation of the roots of the eyelashes. By far the most serious visible results of ophthalmia are found in the opacities and irregularities of the cornea which it not uncommonly causes, and to which various degrees of defective sight are due. The opacities and irregularities of the cornea above spoken of are broadly divisible into those produced by the friction of the rough “ granular ” eyelids over the smooth, transparent and highly sensitive cornea; and those due to ulceration of the cornea, varying from the production of small specks to the rapid mortification of the entire structure. Ulceration often comes on during acute ophthalmia, and is especially apt to occur, either with or without inflammation of the conjunctiva, in persons who are in low or bad health (or suffering, .in common phrase, from “poorness of blood”). In practice the opacities due to friction are often found to be mixed with those caused by ulcer- ation. Indeed, ulceration is often excited in feebly nourished persons by a rough state of the eyelids, and it is to a concurrence of either low health, or bad health, with granular lids in most of the children in these schools that the majority of the specks and opacities are due; neither low nor bad health nor granular lids singly would have such results in so many eases. The granular state of the eyelids, when only slight or moderate m degree, is not of itself a matter of much importance in most cases. It gains great consequence, however, from the facts that eyelids so aftected are far more susceptible to causes of acute inflammation than healthy