OPHTHALMIA IN PAUPER SCHOOLS; 365 effect was given to Mr. Critchett’s advice by the formation of a tem- porary combined infirmary and school at the new and unoccupied AVhitechapel Workhouse in the Mile End Eoad. All the^children (numbering from first to last 390—400) who showed any, even the slightest, signs of active ophthalmia, and a good many in whom, though not actually present, the history of former attacks or the existence of granular lids made the occurrence of attacks probable, were drafted off from Anerley to this combined infirmary and school, where they were placed under special medical charge, and were also supplied with a liberal and efficient staff of teachers, nurses, and other officers. As resident medical superintendent of the Bow School Infirmary during the twelve months of its existence, I had every facility for giving all necessary attention to the treatment of these cases; while through the liberality of the Board of Management, and the co-operation of Dr. Allen Duke, the medical officer of the school at Anerley, I enjoyed perfect freedom in the selection of cases to be sent from Anerley, and in the return thither of children whom I considered as cured. It was originally hoped that this separate establishment would be necessary for only six months ; I thought it requisite, however, to advise its con- tinuance, and Dr. Bridges, agreeing with me, recommended, partly from the ophthalmic point of view and partly because certain structural alterations at Anerley which ought to have been finished were as yet far from completed, a second term of three, or if necessary six, months, and the school was therefore carried on in all for a year. With regard to the result, while the plan was still in progress, Dr. Bridges wrote in his report (Eebruary, 1874), ‘ So far as it has gone, however, the success has been very marked. A certain proportion of cases, many of them children who have had repeated attacks of ophthalmia for years, yield very slowly to treatment. But there can be no question that the school [i. e. Anerley] is fairly on its way to a radical extirpation of the disease.’ Now that the work has been finished, I entirely agree with Dr. Bridges in the above estimate, and am quite satisfied that, although the result was not so rapid or so brilliant as was at first hoped for, under the circumstances in which the school was placed with regard to alterations and building at Anerley, no plan which included the main- tenance of the ophthalmic children at Anerley would have been so successful as the one which was adopted by the managers at the recom- mendation of the Local Government Board. If my advice were asked under similar circumstances, I should recommend the repetition of a similar though not necessarily identical plan. Any scheme of this kind in future would, for instance, require a term of three or four years for its completion instead .of only six or twelve months. Treat- ment similar in principle to what was carried out at Bow, but for a much longer time, is required in many cases. A very long time and a great deal of treatment are essential. With legard to the effects of treatment at Bow the following figures, although of course furnishing very incomplete evidence, are reliable so far as they go. It must be borne in mind that the total numbers varied