Cancer of lung, phthisis, etc. 147 Troisier, ‘Reckcrches sur Lympliangites pulmonaires,’ Paris, 1874, pp. 50 (with plate), and see ‘Arch, de Pkys.,’ 1874, 355. Raynaud, “Memoirc sur l’Angioleueite generalisee des Poumons,” ‘Union Med.,’ 1874, xvii, 460. Hillairet, “Observations d’Angioleucite pulmonaire dans le cancer de l’estomac,” ib., 722, &c. Cornil, “Note sur les Lympliangites pulmonaires a propos d’une lymphangite du poumon observee dans la Syphilis viscerale,” ib., xviii, 25. (The foregoing papers have reference to secondary carcinoma of the lung.) Symes Thompson, “ Dust-inhalation as a Cause of Disease,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1873, ii, 429. Hime, “On Authracosis,” ‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1783, i, 129. Kuntzen, ‘Ueber Staubinhalationen,’ Berlin, 1873. Parrot, “ Cas de Mort par l’introduction de chyme dans les voies aeriennes” (child, set. 11 months, death from dyspnoea three hours after vomiting coagulated milk; bronchi, &c., filled with sour milk), ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1873, 184. Day, “Passage of a Foreign Body through the Right Lung, pneumonia, abscess, recovery” (girl, set. 1), ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’vi, 126. Barwell, “Case of Foreign Body impacted in Right Bronchus” (shoeblack, aet. 17, tracheotomy), ib., 120. Id., “Two cases of Fractured Ribs, with wound of lung, emphysema, pneumothorax, hydrothorax, recovery,” ‘Lancet,’ 1874, i, 91. De Morgan, “Penetrating Wound of Chest with an Iron Rail, laceration of lung, death” (man, set. 33, four inches of iron spike buried in chest), ib. ib., 90. Beck, “A Plum-stone lodged in the Left Bronchus, tracheotomy, expulsion, recovery ” (girl, set. 9), ib., ii, 798. Phthisis. E. Aufrecht (‘ Die chronische Broncho-pneumonie (Lungenscliwind- sucht) und die G-ranulie, (Tuberculose),’ Magdeburg, 1873, pp. 0) bases bis conclusions on 100 autopsies of patients dying of phthisis. In 92 of the chronic cases the lungs were free from tubercles and showed only broncho-pneumonic deposits in the apices. In four cases miliary tubercles were present without any remains of any antecedent local inflammation. In a small number of cases the two forms occurred together. The broncho-pneumonic form consists in a deposition of white blood-corpuscles in the small bronchi and alveoli, frequently with consequent destruction of the exudation and the infiltrated part. The disease commences very often without any symptoms except those of anaemia. Aufrecht does not hold Niemeyer’s views on the subject of haemoptysis, though it may be attended with the results described by the latter in a very few cases ; he has observed only two cases of the kind, and looks upon it only as a consequence of an existing broncho- pneumonia ; but he allows that haemoptysis, by the presence of blood in the lower lobes especially, may set up fresh points of broncho-pneu moma, particularly when the free movement of the lung is prevented by thickened pleura. Of catarrh at the apices he does not make much account, thinking it also a consequence of chronic deposits On the other hand, a lobar pneumonia of the apex or an attack of* catarrhal pneumonia m childhood may be the starting-point of the affection and in these cases there are certain predisposing causes, hereditary and other Broncho-pneumonia may end, only in a very few cases, in recoverv • general y its course is bad-(1) through the eruption of a miliar^ tuberculosis, to which, following Ernpis, he gives the name “ eranulia •” or (a) in the shape of a galloping phthisis, &c., the production of rapidly dying deposits, m a course of one to three months • or (D frequently, by the chronic extension of the process, which mav dra? on through a period of forty or fifty years. As to the Hstolog™felem?„t“ found m the tubercle granulation, he agrees to some extent with Klebs