229 ANEURISM—SURGERY OE ARTERIES. occurred, but was stopped. The wound quickly healed, but an exten- sive aneurism resulted. Three weeks before lie came under care the cicatrix burst, and a quantity of blood was lost, but no recurrence of bleeding occurred. When seen, a pulsating tumour the size of a child s head existed in the right buttock, and there was no doubt about the diagnosis. An aortic tourniquet having been applied, an incision was made into the sac nine inches long. The gluteal artery was found to have been cut across at its point of emergence from the pelvis. With some difficulty carbolised catgut ligatures were applied to both ends of the vessel, and the large wound was brought together. In a month the patient left the hospital well to attend to his duties. (c Liverpool and Manchester Med. and Surg. Rep.,’ 1873, 166). False aneurism on the front of the leg from wound of the bifurcation of the popliteal artery ; ligature; recovery.—Prof. Spence records the fol- lowing case. A man punctured the upper and outer part of his leg from the front and below. No important haemorrhage occurred. Pres- sure stopped it easily. The blood which came was dark. Live days later Mr. Spence saw him and operated ; an incision was made enlarging the original wound. An opening was found in the interosseous mem- brane. A firm, decolorised, conical mass of clot was found, and on clearing this away it was evident that there was a wound in the pos- terior tibial, and that the anterior tibial was nearly sliced off. Liga- tures were applied above and below the wound in the posterior tibial and on the end of the anterior. Bleeding continued, and a ligature was placed on the lower part of the popliteal, and then on a small twig, and finally another immediately above, almost on, the opening, when all oozing ceased. He did well for a month ; then some erysipelatous inflammation occurred, followed by sloughing of fascia and a large portion of the tibialis anticus was pulled away. He went home in seven weeks from the operation. A year later he was known to be in good health and active. Prof. Spence remarks fully on the points of diagnosis. He always recommends enlarging the original wound and passing in the finger. After some time has elapsed from the injury he has not found it so difficult to reach the wounded part as might be expected. (‘ Med. Times and Gfaz.,’ Nov. 7, 1874). . Wound of the posterior tibial artery and simple luxation of the Tcnee- joint; ligature of the posterior tibial artery ; incipient gangrene ; ampu- tation; recovery. Mr. Spence records the case. The patient was a man set. 30. The artery was ligatured where wounded about twenty- four hours after the injury, and the limb was amputated on the following day. (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Nov. 14, 1874.) difficulty of diagnosis of aneurism from abscess.—Dr. Stephen Smith writes a very interesting paper on this subject. He mentions the different symptoms indicative of aneurisms, and shows that no one of these is pathognomonic. 1. An aneurism may exist where the history and symptoms indicate abscess. Cases are noted from various sources m w“lch a11 symptoms and the history pointed to the formation of an abscess, and yet when an incision was made florid blood escaped Aneurism frequently simulates psoas and lumbar abscesses. 2’ Abscess may exist when the history and symptoms indicate aneurism,