118 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. its greatest breadth was i-j inch, and its depth about i inch. It con- sisted of a vast number of delicate tufts, each supplied with a thin- walled and wide vessel, and clothed with columnar epithelium. Tho growth was very vascular, and in some parts small haemorrhages had taken place ; it had apparently been developed from the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and then grown into and enlarged that space. The other organs were healthy. W. G-. Balfour gives (‘Lancet,’ 1873, ii, 838) three cases of tumours attached to the dura mater and pressing on the brain-substance. They occurred in two women, aged respectively 71 and 55, and a man, aged 45, inmates of a lunatic asylum. In all three the symptoms during life were markedly similar. There was pain in the face or frontal region, intense, but irregular in severity or occurrence ; a complete change in habits and disposition, with delusions, aphasia, paralysis, apoplectiform or epileptiform seizures. In the first case was found fibrous and osseous tumours, in the second a gummatous tumour, and in the third grey miliary tubercles of the size of barley seeds; all had their origin in the dura mater, and pressed on and destroyed superficial portions of the brain-substance. J. IT. Thomas gives (‘Lancet,’ 1873, ii, 877) the history of a man, set. 27, who for some months had complained of severe headache. Tour days before his death he became restless, wandering, and at last unconscious. Two hours before he died he had a convulsion, followed by others. Post mortem, the dura mater was abnormally adherent to the skull, the vessels of the pia mater were injected, and pus was present over the anterior surface of the left hemisphere and on the under surface of the pons and cerebellum. In the anterior and lower part of the left hemisphere there was an abscess about the size of a walnut, with a distinct cyst-wall, and containing green pus, which had apparently found its way into the ventricles. With the exception of pleuritic adhesions on the right side, the other organs were healthy. J. Arnold (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lvii, 145) records two cases of osteoma in the frontal sinuses. In the first it commenced within the sinus, through the valves of which it worked its way, otherwise lying free and move- able in the cavity. In the second it was much larger, and sent pro- cesses through the walls. A portion of the tumour was removed, but the patient died with convulsions and coma. The post-mortem exami- nation showed the presence of purulent meningitis, with an abscess in the left frontal lobe, which had burst into the left lateral ventricle. Plates of the portions of skull engaged, and the tumours, in both cases, are given. T. Lockhart Clarke records (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 68) the case of a naval officer, ret. 47, who 30 years before had fallen into the hold of his ship. In the early part of 1869, while in the Tagus, he suffered severely from intermittent fever, attended by severe headache and occasional delirium. This was followed later by intense pain in the back of the head, recurring every morning, attended by impairment of vision, and succeeded by rigors and heat of skin, without sweating. There’was great derangement of the digestive organs. Later still, he became totally blind; the pain extended down the spine, there vas dysphagia and sometimes vomiting; .his lower limbs lost their power.