331 . AFFECTIONS OF THE VESICULiE SEMINALES. hemorrhagic inflammation. The kidneys were large and hyperemie, and the capsules studded with haemorrhages. The cortical substance contained numerous yellow rather soft deposits, partly round, partly m the form of streaks ; they followed the course of the urinary tubes, and encroached on the medullary substance; they depended on the migra- tion of parasites. The urinary tubules were plugged with shining globules, which were unchanged by either alkalies, acids, alcohol or ether; and the tubules in this condition formed the centres of the deposits. The lithotrite was carefully disinfected before use, and the bladder afterwards washed out. In a second case related by Dr. Piirstner, a man, set. 62, died erf tuberculosis, without presenting during life any symptoms of urinary disease. The left kidney had a dilated pelvis, from which, at the normal situation, an ureter came off; this immediately became di- lated into a sac in which lay a mulberry calculus as large as a walnut. The ureter below was of normal size, and received a second ureter which came off from the upper part of the kidney; it then passed to the bladder, into which it opened immediately above the urethra. The right ureter arose from the kidney by six roots, which existed in place of the pelvis of the organ. Inflammation of the vesiculce seminales.—In the ‘Journal de Med. et de Chirurg.,’ Oct. 1874, M. Verneuil relates two cases of inflammation of the vesiculse seminales. A man, set. 34, had gonorrhoea six years previously, which was followed by stricture, which was treated by internal urethrotomy four years before the present history. Six months afterwards he had vesical catarrh, which was soon cured by injections. When he came under notice, micturition was difficult; the abdomen was painful, there was sometimes a discharge of semen during stool, and spermatozoids were always present in the urine. On intro- ducing a bougie, it was sometimes arrested in the membranous portion of the urethra, and sometimes passed readily. The bladder, kidneys, and prostate were healthy. On examination per rectum, tenderness was detected in the region of the vesiculse seminales, especially on the right side ; and deep pressure on the abdominal walls produced pain on both sides at the fundus of the bladder. Verneuil believes that the man did not suffer from stricture, but from spasmodic contraction of the urethra. In the second case, a man, set. 30, had constant difficulty in micturition, and pain; he was obliged to void his urine every ten minutes. A stricture was diagnosed, and a bougie was used without effect. Verneuil found an obstruction in the membranous part of the urethra, which he regarded as spasmodic, and which was one day over- come by means of a large bougie. On examination 'per rectum, the vesiculse seminales were found to be unusually tender, enlarged, and hard. The treatment consisted in the internal use of turpentine, morphia injections, and prolonged hip-baths, and was followed by gradual improvement. Concretions in the vesiculce seminales.—Dr. Reliquet related to the ‘ Academie de Medecine,’ in Paris, on March 14, 1874, the case of a man, at. 33, who had for some time suffered from painful spasms in the region of the bladder, and from severe pain during defecation and