197 ABNORMAL PIGMENTATION, SECRETION, ETC. Rep.,’ xix, 446). He gives in illustration a genealogical table of a family various members of which were thus affected. He concludes, 1. That the macular form of xanthelasma palpebrarum appears to depend often, if not chiefly, on a hereditary predisposition to this special form of change in the texture of the skin of the eyelids. 2. That it does not appear in the hereditary cases to depend on derangement of the liver or on the occurrence of sick headaches (Hutchinson), or of dusky pigmen- tation from other causes round the eyes, and occurs in persons of good health after they have reached middle life. 3. That the cases described as xanthelasma palpebrarum appear to be often situated around the seat of follicular irritation, and may be due to degenerative changes occurring in portions of skin which have been in a condition of hypertrophy owing to the local irritation in their neighbourhood, and are therefore distinct from the hereditary forms of the disease. 4. That the xanthelasmic con- dition associated with long persistent jaundice is probably entirely different from the macular form met with in the eyelids in these here- ditary cases, as it affects the submucous tissues also, and is met with under the skin generally, about the flexures in the palms of the hands or the feet, and is occasionally deposited in large tuberous nodules, which occur chiefly on the extensor surfaces of the limbs. 5. That in the hereditary as in other forms of the disease females appear to be much more frequently affected than males. At the same time it does not appear (see p. 68) to be a common affection, for out of 1163 consecutive cases of women admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital—of whom 140 were under 20, 343 under 30, 281 under 40, 207 under 50, and 195 under 83 years of age—he found only seven or perhaps eight cases of xanthelasma, and in only three was the disease at all well marked. Moxon, “ Simple Stricture of Hepatic Duct causing Chronic Jaundice and Xan- thelasma” (man, set. 32, autopsy), ‘Path. Soc. Trans./ xxiv, 129. Faggc, “General Xanthelasma or Yitiligoidea ” (female), ib., 242. Pye-Smitli, “ Xanthelasma (Vitili- goidea plana) of skin, Peritoneum and Mucous Membrane, associated with Jaundice, autopsy” (woman, set. 49), ib., 251. Legg, “Hydatids of the Liver, omentum and recto-vesical pouch,- compression of the hepatic duct; Jaundice; Xanthelasma multiplex” (man, mt. 25), ib., xxv, 155. Id., “Xanthelasma multiplex; Jaundice from gall-stone?” ib., 259. Lepine, “ Melauodermie etendu a presque toute la Surface du Corps; Sclerodermie bornee aux doigts, avec atrophie des phalangettes; atrophie de la rnoitie droite de la face” (woman, set. 59; cf. this with Hallopean’s case under “Scleroderma”), ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1873, 195. Fabre, “Des Melanodermies, et au particulier d’une Melanodermie parasitaire,” ‘ Gaz. des H6p.,’ 1873, 299. T. Pox, “ Morphcea Alba and its treatment,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1874, ii, 510. Stowers, “ Case of Morplicea Alba,” c Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, ii, 517. Alterations in Secretion. E. Erankel (‘Zur. Pathologie des Halssympatkicus,’ Breslau, 1874, pp. 38), in the second part of his dissertation, enlarges on a case of hy- peridrosis unilateralis in a man, jet. 60, who suffered from attacks of dyspnoea, with hypertrophy of the heart and enlargement of one lobe of the thyroid. The autopsy revealed the following condition of the inferior cervical ganglion on the left side, on which the production of sweat was greatest: it was beset with roundish bodies like grains of gnd, visible to the naked eye, resolving themselves under the micro.