ABDOMINAL SECTION EOR INTUSSUSCEPTION. 341 many cases, it is easy by estimating the severity of the symptoms (vomiting, constipation, &c.) to form an opinion as ^to whether the intestine is strangulated or simply irreducible. 8. That in cases of strangulated intussusception, whilst there is great risk ol speedy death, there is also some hope that gangrene may be produced and spon- taneous cure result. 9. That in cases in which the intussuscepted part is incarcerated and not strangulated there is very little hope of the occurrence of gangrene, and it is probable that the patient will die after some weeks or months, worn out by irritation and pain. 10. That the chances of successful treatment, whether by the use of bougies or by the injection of air or water, are exceedingly small, excepting in quite recent cases, and that if the surgeon does not succeed by them promptly, it is not likely that he will succeed at all. 11. That the cases best suited for operation are those which have persisted for some considerable time and in which the intestine is only incarcerated, and that these cases are also precisely those least likely to, be relieved by any other method. 12. That in the cases just referred to, after failure by injections, bougies, &c., an operation is to be strongly recommended. 13. That the records of post-mortems justify the belief that, in a considerable portion of the cases referred to the surgeon will encounter no material difficulty in effecting reduction after opening the abdomen. 14. That the circumstances which might cause difficulty are, first, the tightness of the impaction of the parts ; secondly, the existence of adhesions ; and, thirdly, the presence of gangrene. 15. That in selecting cases suitable for operation, the surgeon should b§ guided by the severity of the symptoms in his estimate of the tightness of the strangulation and also as to the probability of gangrene having already set in. 16. That in cases in which the patient’s symptoms are very severe, or the stage greatly advanced, it may be wiser to decline the operation and trust to the use of opiates. 17. That the operation is best performed by an incision in the median line below the umbilicus. 18. That in cases of intussusception in young infants (under one year of age) the prognosis is very desperate, scarcely any recovering excepting the few in whom injection treatment is immediately successful, whilst a large majority die very quickly. 19. That the fact just referred to may be held to justify, in the case of very young infants, very early resort to the opera- tion. 20. That it is very desirable that all who in future have the opportunity for post-mortem examination of intussusception cases should give special attention to the question as to whether an operation would have been practicable, and should record their results. (‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ lvii, 31.) Laparotomy, or abdominal section, as a remedy for intussusception, with tables showing the results of the operation in cases of this affection and in those of other forms of acute obstruction of the bowels.—Dr. J. Ash- hurst, jun., in a paper in the ‘American Journal of the Medical Sciences,’ July, 1874, collects thirteen cases in which abdominal sec- tion has been undertaken for the relief of intussusception (five of the cases being successful), and fifty-seven in which the operation was per- formed for various causes (with eleven recoveries). He sums up as follows:—1. Past experience gives no encouragement to the operative