REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 198 scope into cavities, with a well-marked endothelium, and filled with blood-cells; the ganglion-cells were strongly pigmented, but of the normal size. The same ganglion on the right was unaffected. He con- siders that in this case the fibres of the sympathetic on the left side underwent temporary paresis, and thus increased blood-supply led to increased sweat-production. Hardy, “Hyperhydrose localisee a la Plante des Pieds ou aux Paumes de la Main; considerations sur son traitemenfc,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop./ 1874, 745. Debrousse-Latour j‘ Des Sueurs locales,” Paris, 1873, pp. 58. Chrestien, “ Sur deux cas de Sueurs locales,” ‘Gaz. Hcbd./ 1873, 141. Dally, “Des Sueurs loeales,” ib. 153. Foot f‘Chromidrosis,” ‘ Dubl. Journ.,’ 1873, lvi, 511. T. Fox, “ Dysidrosis,” ‘Brit. Med! Journ.,’ 1873, ii, 363. Emmingbaus, “ Ueber Epileptoide Schweisse ” (paroxysms of perspiration with slight vertigo in woman, mt. 46, and youth, mt. 19), ‘Arch, f Psych,/ 1874, iv, 574. Parasitic Skin Diseases. Dyce Duckworth (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1873, ii, 315) asserts that the presence o£ a parasitic disease of the scalp may be demonstrated by the application of a few drops of chloroform to the affected part. On evaporation the diseased hairs are seen to become of a yellowish- white colour, opaque, and like fine filaments of a vegetable lichen. The healthy hairs are quite uninfluenced. The skin in the immediate neighbourhood shows the same reaction. He believes the effect to be due to debris of the parasite mixed up with the sebaceo-epithelial matter extruded from the hair-follicles. Ether by itself gives no result. The same writer (‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vii, 157) records the occur- rence of favus of the scalp in a child, mt. 12 months ; there was no similar case in the house, and the only cat kept was free from the affection. This was the sixth case which had come under the author’s observation during the last four years. Of these, four were instances of favus of the body, three of them in the persons of two brothers and a sister. The disorder seems to be extremely rare in London, and in England generally, though much more common in Edinburgh and Glasgow: of about 3000 cases of skin disease seen during the last four years at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital six only were cases of favus ; whilst in Glasgow there were 1 $6 in 10,000 dispensary cases. Ignorio de Avallar (‘ Gaz. Med.!’ 1873, 362)]gives the case of a boy of 12 years, who had been affected with favus over his whole body for eight years. For four years he was in hospital, without any trans- mission of the disease to other persons, though he was in close com- munication with them, and several times slept in the beds of some of them. Lanceraux (‘ Union Med.,’ xvii, 969) laid before the Societe Medicate des Hopitaux three cases in which herpes circinatus had been caught from a cat, and mentions incidentally another. In the discussion which followed Besnier remarked that he had frequently observed the occur- rence of the affection on the back of the hands and the forearm of butchers, especially those engaged in the flaying of calves, these animals being very subject to herpes circinatus. He and Bergeron find from statistics that favus is most common among country people, while herpes tonsurans occurs most frequently among in-