330 REPORT ON SURGERY. Cases are quoted in support of this. 3. The early history alone may indicate the existence of aneurism, all the symptoms being those of abscess. The first symptom in the history which should arrest atten- tion is the sensation of something “giving way” at the moment of injury, followed generally by swelling. This may be the only feature of an aneurism which can be elicited ; it is a most important symptom, and if rightly interpreted might solve the difficult problem. An injury in the region of an artery, followed by profuse haemorrhage, healing of the wound, and then, after a more or less considerable period, the forma- tion of a swelling at the seat of wound with all the general symptoms of an abscess, should excite suspicion of aneurism. The fact that an artery was once impaired by a wound which subsequently healed gives great certainty to the conclusion that a tumour forming at that point is aneurismal, whether the ordinary signs are present or not. Moreover, inflammation may occur in the cellular tissue around an aneurism, and terminate in suppuration. The pus may accumulate in a well-defined abscess, or it may be diffused. In these cases the early history is that of aneurism, and if these symptoms continue well-defined the abscess is liable to be overlooked. The early history of ruptured or diffused aneurisms is very liable to be overlooked and the case treated as abscess; and yet when thoroughly and intelligently examined, patients always remember, and will describe, the essential early feature, viz., pulsation. 4. An aneurism may be formed from an abscess, in which case the early history and symptoms indicate abscess, and the later, aneurism. 5. An aneurism, having its history and characteristic symptoms for the most part well marked, may be mistaken for abscess. (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1873.) Dr. Stephen Smith writes further in reference to the diagnosis of aneurism from non-malignant tumours. 1. Aneurism may be mistaken for cystic tumour. 2. Cystic tumour may be mistaken for aneurism. 3. Eibro-cystic tumour may be mistaken for aneurism. 4. A vascular tumour maybe mistaken for aneurism. 5. An aneurism may be taken for a solid tumour. 6. A fibrous tumour may be mistaken for aneurism. 7. A neuroma may be mistaken for aneurism. Cases are detailed under each heading. (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1873.) Dr. Stephen Smith continues his remarks in the number for Jan. 1874. hi. Aneurism and malignant growths. 1. Aneurism may be mistaken for malignant growth. Interesting cases of this are narrated. 2. Malignant growth mistaken for aneurism, iv. Aneurism and pul- sating tumour of bone. Y. Aneurism and enlarged thyroid body. vi. Orbital aneurism, yii. Irregularities of bone leading to errors in the diagnosis of aneurism. Besides these, other forms of disease have been confused with aneurism, and are mentioned, glandular enlargements, &c. In conclusion he points out—1. That a tumour situated in the course of an artery is of frequent occurrence without the presence of aneurism ; in itself the symptom is of no positive value. 2. Pulsation may or may not be present where aneurism exists ; to be of value when present it must be expansive. The latter condition is met with in certain cases without aneurism. 3. Cessation of pulsation when the artery is com- pressed on the cardiac side, with partial subsidence of the swelling, may be met with often without aneurism, 4- -A- bruit may or may not