100 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. not only from fatty impregnation, bat also from cirrhosis. The mis- chief in the lung takes apparently every shape of phthisis. The kid- neys, though undergoing congestive enlargement, fatty and fibroid changes, do not suffer commensurately with the blood-vessels, or with the same frequency as other viscera. In addition to local effects which are part and parcel of the general poisoning, alcohol occasions a general shrinking of the brain, as evinced by the accumulation of fluid in spaces once filled by cerebral substance. In a word, alcohol is the genius of degeneration. Magnan (‘ Gfaz. Heb.,’ 1873, 355) points out that the temperature is most important in diagnosing cases of acute alcoholism from its transient form. In serious cases it rises from ioo'4° to io2’2° F. on the first day, going further to 104° and io7’5°, in one case reaching no° before death. He looks upon muscular tremors produced on pressure and percussion, and during sleep, as very unfavourable signs. The same author (‘ Arch, de Phys.,’ v, 115) has made experiments upon various animals with alcohol and absinth, and writes an interesting paper containing full details, including the pathological changes found, the latter scarcely differing from those described in the above paper of Dickinson’s. The immediate action of alcohol, given in a sufficiently large dose, displays itself in all animals by intoxication; in the dog its prolonged action produces symptoms which become increasingly more marked, and show the gradual onset and evolution of alcoholism—irritability and increased sensibility to external excitements, illusions and hallucinations, with, at the end of the first month, daily and nightly delirium, and in the course of the second month general tremblings. He has never found it give rise to an epileptic attack. On the other hand, the action of absinth is distinct from that of alcohol, rather resembling those produced by belladonna or haschisch. Small doses cause giddi- ness and muscular tremors of the anterior portion of the body, especially of the head and neck, in all animals (dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea-pigs, rats, birds) to which it was administered ; full doses brought on attacks of epilepsy and delirium. He enlarges on facts which, in his experiments with absinth, seem to demonstrate the inde- pendence of the brain and spinal cord, and even of different portions of the latter in epileptic attacks produced by this poison. Knecht, “ Tod durch acute Alkoholvergiftung ” (boy, act. 5, after drinking about half a glass of brandy; no autopsy allowed), ‘Arch. d. Heilk./ xv, 82. E. V. de Warker, “The Restorative Force of Nature in Delirium Tremens,” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xviii, 158. W. S. Schenck, “The use of Ipecac, in Delirium Tremens,” ib., 413. E. Crisp, “ Diseased Livers and Kidneys from the inordinate use of Alcohol ” (lie believes life is thus shortened eight or ten years), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiv, 265. “ Influence de TAlcoolisme sur divers groupcs d’affections cutauees,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1874 kk Lolliot, “ De l’Alcoolisme comme cause de la paralysie generate,” ib., 1873, 817 Magnan “ De 1’ hemianeetnesie de la sensibilite generate et des sens dans l’Alcoo- lisme chronique,” ‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1873, 729. Crocq, “ Meningo-encephalite chronique d’ormine alcoolique, autopsie” (woman, at. 29), ‘ Presse Med. Beige, 1874, 207. Carpentier, “ Alcoolisme chronique, epilepsie, mort, autopsie, hemorrliagie menmgee considerable, meningite, hepatite, gastro-duodenite clironiques, degenerescence grais- seuse du cceur et des reins ” (man, ait. 52). 73- Magnan* “Eecherehes sur les signes cliniques du Delirium tremens febrile, ’ ‘Gaz. Med,, 1873, 323. Jolly, Des diverses formes du Delire alcoolique et de leur traitement, Bull.de 1 Acad, de Med.,