242 REPORT ON SURGERY. this time the patient did well. He returned to his work. (‘ Am. Joum. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1874.) Fracture of the clavicle ; laceration of the internal jugular vein.— Hr. J. W. Ogle records a case. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July 26, 1873.) Simple comminuted fracture of the clavicle treated by the removal of a sharp fragment.—Mr. Thomas Annandale records a case under his care. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July 26, 1873.) Simultaneous dislocation of both ends of the right clavicle.—A man, set. 32, came under the care of Mr. Lund. A shaft of a cart struck him at the back of the right shoulder, whilst his left was fixed against a gate-post. The right clavicle was found to have been dislocated at both ends—the sternal forwards, the acromial backwards and upwards. Under chloroform the bone was got into fair position and kept so by pads. Nine months after the accident he could use his arm as well as ever. (7 Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 24, 1874.) Dislocation of shoulder of twelve weeks' standing, reduced under chloroform; cure.—The patient was a man, ret. 36, under the care of Mr. Heath. (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Nov. 14, 1874.) Simultaneous dislocation of both humeri.—A man, set. 72> came under the care of Mr. Pearse with dislocation of the left humerus beneath the coracoid and of the right under the spine. He had fallen down stairs with a jug in bis hand. The left dislocation was relieved by the ordinary method. The right one by slight pressure on the pro- jecting head, the elbow being at the same time drawn backwards. The head returned easily with an audible snap. No ill effects followed. (‘Lancet,’ May 2, 1874.) Decent dislocation of the humerus, with fracture of the coracoid pro- eess.—A specimen is described iu detail by Dr. Bennett, and figured. (‘ Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1873, p. 345, &c.) Absorption of the humerus, after fracture.—(‘Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,’ Oct. 10, 1872.) The patient, a male, set. 18, broke his right arm when about eighteen, three times in succession. Tbe bone never united. The humerus began slowly to disappear. There was no ex- ternal wound. Bor four years he did no work. The process of absorp- tion covered a period of twelve years. From that time till the age of 70 the condition remained unaltered. Alter death all trace of the shaft of the humerus had disappeared. The upper extremities of the radius and ulna were atrophied and fused together. A careful de- scription of the specimen is given. The man could do any ordinary work He could write well. By twisting the upper part of his arm e could use his fingers to tie his neckerchief. The muscular power of the arm was considerable. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 18/3, P’ 'Fracture of the coronoid process— In an essay on “ fractures of the elbow-ioint ’’ by Walter Ela, a case of fracture of the coronoid process (complicated with an impacted fracture of the radius) is given, and the appearances of the specimen are shown by means of a well-executed “ nlber-tvne ” (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci., Oct. 18/3.) Bmtlre of the biceps musde.-T>v. Ashkurst records a case ( Phil Mel'Times/Jan. i,, . 873). The patient was a man, ret. 35- He could