faii! ui that we must rely for the proof of viability. The functions of internal . organs afford more sure data : as the condition of the respiratory organs to sufficiently vivify the blood, and the acts relating to digestion from suckling to defecation, so the way in which the child takes its food and the motions should be examined before coming to a conclusion. Dr. More Madden discusses the question of the early viability of the fetus in premature deliveries (‘Obst. Journ.,’May, 1873). He alludes to the legal signification of the term “born alive” in various countries; according to his view, every infant that enters the world alive and free from any disease or malformation, which must of neces- sity produce its immediate death, is viable at whatever period of gesta- tion delivery may occur, or however short its term of extra-uterine life. After referring to the difficulties in determining the earliest period at which gestation may terminate in a viable child, he quotes several instances from various sources, in which a living child was born at a very early period of gestation, even as early as the fourth month and a half. Dr. Charles H. Carter exhibited a foetus (‘ Obst. Soc. Trans.,’ 1874) born 172 days after marriage; it weighed 1 lb. 6 oz., was 12 inches long, of a dark red colour, with abundant hair on the head and down on the cheeks. It cried loudly several times, passed meconium of a greenish-black colour and urine ; it lived for 21 hours. Eroin the post- mortem-examination the fetus was proved to be about six months old. Dr. Willis E. Eord writes on the diagnosis of the sex of the foetus in utero (‘ The Hew York Medical Record,’ Dec. 1873). Dr. Matthews Duncan, in a paper read before the British Medical Association, 1873, on a digital impression produced by the accoucheur in the cranium of a child during birth, gives the history of a case in which, while producing artificial rotation of the head in a case of narrow pelvic outlet, he made with his finger an impression in the parietal bone to the depth of about half the thickness of the Huger. The result was slight, short, but very frequently repeated epileptiform seizures, which lasted for some time after the impression had disappeared, and which at first were gradually modified, and were afterwards replaced by slightly awkward movements, somewhat choreic in appearance. Dr. Cieslewicz in an inaugural dissertation on injuries of the foetus by the accoucheur, has collected from literature and from the records of the hospital at Halle forty cases of fracture, fissure, contusion of nerves, laceration of muscles, separation of epiphyses, &c., occurring to the fetus as the result of interference in labour. Among the cases are two of rupture of the longitudinal sinus. In the first the delivery was effected easily by the forceps ; in the other the child was born, after a labour of 24 hours’ duration, without instrumental aid. (‘ Centralbl f. die Medecin Wissensch.,’ July, 1873.) V Easchender relates (‘Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,’ 23, 1873) a case of extravasation of blood into the neck of anew-born child. The child was by turning, the pelvis being contracted. Eour hours after birth the child was convulsed, an hour later a doughy swelling of the size of a hen’s egg, bluish in colour, showed itself over the right sterno- clavicular articulation. The right arm was paralysed, the head drawn