AFFECTIONS OF PANCREAS, PERITONEUM, AND KIDNEY. 181 Anderson, “Case of Tubercular Peritonitis with Effusion” (boy, act. 3, paracentesis with aspirator, recovery), ‘Glasg. Journ.,’ u. s„ vi, 334- Eerrand “ Pentomte chro- nique devenant aigue pas perforation; autopsie, foie gras, retention bilieuse et chyleuse, plusieurs lombrics,” ‘ Union Med.,’ xvi, 105. Haudfield Jones, ‘ On cases of Perito- neal Strumous Disease,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1873, 11, 29. Morin, Pentomte rliumatismale,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1873, 414. Martin, on same.ib., 276, and see lb., 301. Dcsplats, “De la Peritonite rliumatismale,” ‘Union Med., xvi, 169. Crocq, “ Peritonite et Pleuresie consecutive” (boy, ret. 18), ‘Presse Med. Beige,’ 1874, 212. Id., “ Colite et Peritonite” (male), ib., 238. Magill, “ Obscure Peritonitis (man, sot. 40, autopsy), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874. n> 5§7- Marshall, “Case of Malignant Disease of Omentum” (man, set. 46, encephaloid), ib. ib., 174. Browne, Colloid Cancer of Abdomen in a Man, simulating Ovarian Dropsy,” ‘ Lancet,’1873, 11, 152. Thompson, “ Two cases of Perityphlitis in which Recovery took place,” ib. ib., 1, 736. Allan, “Case of Acute Typhlitis,” ib. ib., 770. Chandelux, “Note sur un cas de Perityphlite avec epancliement stercoral consecutif,” c Lyon Med., xii, 511 • Waldeyei, “ Hernia retroperitouealis, &c.,” ‘ Vircli. Arch.,’ lx, 66. Rajewsky, “ Resorption u. Yerbreitung von Krebs im Zwerchfell,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1874, 531 • f. Affections of the Kidney. («). Nephritis; Pyelitis. A. L. G-alabin (‘On the Connection of Bright’s Disease with Changes in the Vascular System,’ Bond., 1872, pp. 39), discussing the questions whether changes in the vessels are confined or not to cases of granular contracted kidney, and whether these changes are the effect of the renal disease or of a general condition, gives tables of all cases of granular kidney and of tubal nephritis (scarlatinal dropsy excluded) occurring in Gruy’s Hospital from 1869 to 1872 in- clusive. His general conclusion is that hypertrophy of the left ven- tricle belongs especially to a granular kidney, but in some degree also to a tubal nephritis of long standing; and this is a strong argument for its resulting from the renal mischief, and not from some third condition. He holds the old opinion that the heart hypertrophy is due to the altered quality of the blood, and opposes Dr. Gf. Johnson’s views as to the resistance of the small arteries. He thinks it “ simpler to suppose that the impediment is in the capillaries, and is due to a modification of capillary attraction between the blood and the walls of the vessels, and that, the arterial pressure being thus increased, the muscular walls of heart and arteries are both hypertrophied in concert, since both have to act against greater resistance.” Examining the small arteries of the pia mater in salt-solution, he finds both muscular and external fibroid coats thickened. On irrigating the preparations with glycerine the external fibrous coat and the tunica intima become somewhat swollen after a time, and the former assumes what has been described as the “hyalin-fibroid” appearance. He has never seen this without the use of glycerine, nor does he think that it indicates the presence of any special material. If glycerine, very slightly acidulated, be used —even to a perfectly healthy artery—the external coat becomes at once much swollen and very hyaline, and the tunica intima becomes wavy and its longitudinal fibres more distinct. He concludes that microscopic examination does not reveal such a change in arterioles and capillaries as to show that the prime cause of kidney degeneration and heart hypertrophy must be sought for there. He next gives the