REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 98 which died soon after its birth. The epiphysial cartilages were enormously swollen and of a jelly-like consistence. A longitudinal section ot the tibia showed that the cartilage was homogeneous, without a trace of bone-nuclei. The shaft had a moderately strong and hard external layer, from which several small compact stripes ran into the spongy substance. The limit of ossification between cartilage and bone was very sharply marked, but the characteristic layers of cartilage-cells along the border of ossification were absent. The small cells found in other parts of the cartilage had more the appearance of connective-tissue-corpuscles, and were further on lost in a layer of fibrous tissue between the cartilage and the bone, which was con- tinuous with the inner layer of the periosteum ; this was thinner in one place than another, and in other spots entirely absent, so that bone and cartilage lay in direct contact; but even in this situation the layers of cartilage-cells were wanting. The centrum of the shaft showed cretified cartilage with cells like large bladders. The periosteum was normal. The author points out the differences between this case and one of true rickets. P. Bouland (“ Recherckes anatomiques sur le Rachitisme de la Colonne vertebrale,” ‘ Compt. Rend.,’ lxxviii, 564) concludes from measurements he has taken that curvature of the spine is not always due, as is frequently said to be the case, to a relaxed state of the ligaments. His observations were made on children between the ages of two and sixteen months, the majority, though slight, being in the female sex. He thinks that the conditions found in rickets may be referred to three principal types, according as the inter-articular cartilages alone, these and the vertebrae, and both cartilages and vertebrae, together with the ligaments, are involved. Increase in the proliferation of the cartilage-cells is the most marked microscopic appearance. Z. J. Strelzof, “Rachitis,” ‘Untersuch. aus dem Path. Inst, zu Zurich/ 1872, pp. 52. P. Steudener, “Ein Fall von schwerer Rachitis” (child, set. autopsy), ‘ Deut. Zeitschr. f. Chir./ 1873, iv, x, 90 (with plate). Geissler, “ Plotzliche Erblin- dung bei Hydrocephalus Chronicus, Sectionsbefund” (hoy, mt. s|), ‘Arch. d. Heilk./xv, 567. P. Bouley, ‘ De l’Osteomalacie chez les Homines et les Animaux domestiques/ Paris, 1874, pp. 132. L. Tripier, “Recherches sur la Production artificielle du Rachitisme,” ‘Arch, de Phys./ Ser. 2, i, 108. _ “ Enlargement of the Spleen from Rickets simulating Malignant Disease of the Kidney,” ‘Lancet/ 1873, ii, 6 (see abstract of this paper under “ Spleen ”). Cayley and Sansom, “ Hydro- cephalus, Paracentesis, relief, sudden death from Diarrhoea” (hoy, set. 3 months), ‘Med. Times and Gaz./ 1874, i, 671. Addison's Disease. Heschl, in publishing (‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1873, No 33) three cases of Addison’s disease, writes on its symptoms and etiology. The microscopical examination of the skin and supra-renal cap- sules revealed nothing new. The symptoms he arranges under three heads—(a) Degeneration of the supra-renal bodies, shown in various decrees of cheesiness or more or less extensive cretifi cation. (6) Various pigmentations of the skin and mucous membranes, con- sisting in a deposit of pigment in the cells of the epidermis, and very rarely in those of the corium. (c) Various symptoms referred to the nervous system, blood, and general health. According to the different