GELSEMINUMi 481 tinho, and confirmed by Dr. Gubler and M. Rabuteau, as to the powerful diaphoretic and sialogogue properties of the drug. It appears to be well worthy of an extensive trial by the profession at large. Its identity with Pilocarpus pennatifolius is doubted by Mr. Martindale, an excellent authority, who, however, admits that it closely resembles the leaves of that plant. The agents who supply the drug from Pernambuco state that it is a medical shrub known by them, but little used, notwithstanding its excellent virtues, as the medical men in Pernambuco prefer to use foreign medicines; and they state that it is an excellent sudorific and a good sialogogue. The tincture is used for friction to paralysed limbs. Jaborandi is undoubtedly a drug of marked physiological action, and of great therapeutical promise. To Mr. Martindale the effect seemed marvellous. He made an infusion of sixty grains of the drug in five ounces of boiling water, let it stand a quarter of an hour, and strained it. The characteristic odour of jaborandi was then found to have almost entirely disappeared. The infusion had a mawkish bitter taste, but did not excite the glowing sensation upon the tongue that the drug itself did ; but the dregs still retained their pungent taste when chewed. Mr. Martindale swallowed as much of the dregs as he could (about fifty grains), and washed them down with the infusion on re- tiring to bed. In five minutes he felt a glow, increased circulation, uneasiness in the head, and restlessness. The secretion of saliva was increased. In fifteen minutes there was free perspiration. The sali- vation and perspiration were speedily profuse, and the eyes became blurred; near objects could be distinguished, but not those at the dis- tance of a few feet. The pupils were slightly dilated. In half an hour the pulse was 96°, and it subsequently rose to 104° Articula- tion was difficult and indistinct. The perspiration was far more profuse than that produced by a Turkish bath, and the saliva required con- stant ejection. In an hour and a quarter after taking the dose (clearly an over dose) vomiting occurred, at first of the saliva swallowed, then of some of the jaborandi. Sixteen ounces of saliva were collected, and much was lost. In two hours Mr. Martindale fell asleep, and slept for four hours. He recovered in about eight hours after taking the drug. Gelseminum.—This remedy, derived from the root of the yellow jas- mine, is now extensively used in the United States as a sedative, and is imported into this country for use by herbalists and quacks. It has already been adverted to in the Biennial Retrospect of this Society.1 We have also recorded2 a remarkable state trial in which much atten- tion was drawn to this drug. Fontaina pancheri.—The seeds of this tree yield an oil which acts in a somewhat similar manner to' croton oil as a drastic purgative and pustulant. Dr. Heckel2 recommends its use in preference to croton oil as being quicker in its action and less liable to induce nausea and vomiting. Two drops are a sufficient dose as a drastic purgative. 1 Vide 1869-70, p. 464. 2 ‘ Schmidt’s Jalirb./ cliii, p. 260. 31