398 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. of soft flexible probes covered with a thin layer of cotton-wool. He has found it best to employ a solution consisting of pure carbolic acid and of glycerine (equal parts). In bis bands he bas had good results even in the most confirmed cases. Dr. Ellenger writes on immediate dilatation of the cervical canal (‘ Arcbiv f. Gynak.,’ v, 2, 1873); he gives in detail an account of the various methods employed for dilating the cervix, and then describes a new instrument by which he says rapid dilatation can be accomplished. Dr. Hagemann writes (‘ Archiv f. Gynak.,’ v, 2, 1873) on the shape of the cavity of the uterus. He has taken casts by injecting into uteri of different ages and conditions, paraffine and a metallic compound. Dr. Louis Mayer relates four cases of disturbance of motion in con- nection with pathological conditions of the female sexual organs (‘Beitrage zur Geburtsk. und Gynak.,’ ii, 2). These pareses and reflex paralyses were removed, after appropriate treatment had been applied to the uterus ; in the cases of retroflexion, the reposition of the uterus by the sound at once enabled the patients to walk. Displacements of the Uterus. Dr. John Williams (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 1873) writes on the physio- logical changes in the position of the healthy unimpregnated uterus, and points out that from the manner of its attachments the uterus must necessarily move in obedience to the changes which take place in the volume of the neighbouring organs—the rectum and the bladder. After speaking of the position of the bladder in its emptied and full state, jjand of the connections of the uterus with it and the rectum through the vagina, he proceeds to fix the limits of the antero- posterior movements of the uterus, as well as its elevation and depres- sion. There are four extreme positions which the uterus can normally assume—the lowest, the foremost, the highest, and the hindermost. The first is met with when both the bladder and the rectum are emptied the uterus is then low down, and the body of the uterus rests on the empty rectum on the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx: the position is one of retroversion, but not accompanied by flexion. The second is met with when the rectum is fully distended; the uterus is pushed forwards, and the whole length of the organ rests on the bladder and the anterior wall of the vagina, the position is one of complete anteversion without flexion. The third, the highest position, is met with when both the rectum and the bladder are fully distended; the organ is then slightly curved forwards. The fourth position, the hindermost, is met with when the rectum is emptied and the bladder is fully dis- tended ; the uterus is then pushed the furthest from the pubes and is felt far back and high up ; it is in a position of retroversion. From these extremes all other intermediate positions may be deduced. Dr. John Williams writes on the mechanism of tbe production of certain displacements of the uterus (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 1873). He con- siders the causation of the antero-posterior displacements—anteflexion, anteversion, retroflexion, retroversion. He then points out in what way the flexion of such an organ as the uterus can be brought about; then