328 REPOUT ON SURGERY. He was a great drunkard, and woke up one morning with the penis in a state of priapism, and very painful. Chloroform did not influence the state of the penis. The priapism rather rapidly subsided at the end of the six weeks. No cause for its coming on was discovered. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 18, 187.3.) See previous ‘ Bien. ltefcrospects.’ Syphilitic urethral discharges.—Mr. Lee, in his first Lettsomian lecture, treats of syphilitic urethral discharges. He endeavours to show that there are two diseases, each resulting in a puriforin dis- charge from the urethra, or from the mucous membrane of some other part, which have not in former times been distinguished. The first of these, gonorrhoea, does not produce a secretion that can be inoculated on the same or on another individual; the second, which has its origin in true syphilis, yields a secretion which, if inoculated on a virgin subject, produces its natural results and communicates genuine syphilis. Of the last kind of disease, two varieties are described ; one which occurs as a primary affection, the other as a secondary disease. Prostatic discharges.—In his second lecture, Mr. Lee deals with prostatic discharges, and in his third, with non-syphilitic urethral dis- charges. He discusses the comparative anatomy of the vesiculse seminales, $c. He supports the view that the vesiculse seminales are not physiologically connected with the secretion of semen. In urethral discharges (spermatorrhoea, &c.), Mr. Lee finds the application of a solution of perchloride of iron to the prostatic portion of the urethra through a catheter of peculiar construction useful. The solution is made of the strength of from two to four drachms of the liquor ferri perchloridi to eight ounces of water. A catheter, with openings at the end, and a piston in its straight part, is charged with some of this fluid and introduced so that the orifices in the instrument may rest in the prostate gland (‘ St. Gfeo. Hosp. Rep.,’ vi, pp. 1-56.) JEnchondroma and cancer in the same testis.—The case is recorded by Mr. Richardson. The enchondroma was below and the cancer above, A drawing is given. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1873O -A- mixed parotid tumour is also figured and described. Suppression ofiorine as a consequence of renal calculus.—Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, in a clinical lecture (‘ Lancet,’ July 4, 1874), alludes to a case of suppression of urine in which he was led to diagnose that the patient had but one kidney, and that his only available ureter had become plugged by a calculus, and then records a case in which this really happened. The patient was an old man, who had enjo\ed excellent health till he received a blow on the left loin, to which he attached some importance, but which was not much felt at the time. In the course of the night he could not pass water. From this time none passed, and the bladder remained empty. The main symptom was pain and tenderness in the affected loin. He was sick now and then. He died on the sixth day in a convulsive seizure. JNo trace could be found of a kidney on the right side, and a calculus was found impacted in the left ureter. A sketch of the left kidney and ureter is given. Two cases are related in which a similar diagnosis seemed plausible, and three previously recorded (‘Path, Trans.), in which a similar state of affairs existed.