iJD REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 3 * Vrtljrsschr. f. Gericlitl. Med.,’ 1873, p. 49, produces cyanic appearances. It destroys the hemoglobin of the red blood-corpuscles. . General action of the alkaloids.—Dr. J. M. Eossbach1 has made some interesting but incomplete experiments upon the general action of the alkaloids. The particular points under investigation are the action of alkaloids upon hemoglobin and the albuminates, and the influence of the alkaloids upon the peptinization of nitrogenous food. Strychnia— Dr. Jochelsohn2 writes on the proposal to treat poison- ing by strychine by means of artificial respiration. Leube had pre- viously proposed this plan of treatment, and his observations were confirmed by those of Brown-Sequard ; but Eossbach was unable to get the same results as Leube. Jochelsohn now finds, on repeating the experiments of Leube and Eossbach, that strychine does not destroy life by paralysing the muscular coats of the vessels, as Leube supposed; but that it paralyses the cord, and deprives the albumen in the body of its power of absorbing oxygen and forming peptones. The ability of the blood to give off carbonic acid is thus lessened, and muscular irrita- bility is diminished. He does not think that the alkaloid is excreted by or destroyed in the lungs, and he has not noted any diminished susceptibility of animals to the influence of the poison after its repeated administration. It seems to be less rapidly absorbed from the subcu- taneous areolar tissue than from the stomach. Artificial respiration does not prevent convulsions following a dose of strychine, nor ever delay them ; except when the poison is injected subcutaneously, and then the spasms are only delayed and not prevented. Since small doses of the alkaloid merely increase the reflex excitability of rabbits, the author is of opinion that Leube was misled by merely taking the weight of the animal into consideration, and not its strength and constitution. Opium.—Dr. F. A. Falck,3 of Marburg, has investigated the actions of hydrocotarnine, a base discovered by Hesse and supposed to form an essential constituent of opium. He finds that hydrocotarnine produces two forms of intoxication, a tetanic and a narcotic or soporific. In both forms of intoxication there is a preliminary stage of excitement, with tremors and dilated pupils. This stage may be followed by tetanus and then by an adynamic stage during which the animal appears as if dead ; whilst before death actually supervenes the pupils contract. Or, the preliminary stage may be succeeded by a narcotic one, with sinking of the head, widely dilated pupils, and intercurrent convulsive movements. This passes into an adynamic stage with widely dilated pupils ending in death. In the tetanic form of intoxication the temperature of the body rises, whilst in the narcotic the temperature sinks. It would appear from Dr. Falck’s experiments that, in frogs at least, hydrocotarnine acts as an antidote to muscarine, and in a similar manner to atropine. 1 ‘ Pharm. Untersuch. Wiirzburg,’ 1874, p. 168; ‘Schmidt's Jahrb.,’ clx, p. 9; clxiii, p. 126. 2 ‘ Verhandl. d. Physik. Med. Geselscli. Wurzburg,,’ v, p. 107.