514 ■REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. weeks or months the second period follows—depression; heaviness ; anaesthesia of some parts of the skin; diminution of sight and, in some cases, of hearing. Sexual desire, excited in the first period, is lost in this. The workmen generally leave the factory when these symptoms are marked, and appear to recover entirely or partially. The gases of putrefying substances.—The bad-smelling gases and effluvia given off from animal substances, which are being macerated in order to prepare them for some trades’ purposes, are those referred to by Hirt under the above heading. He does not profess to be able to state exactly the chemical nature of these effluvia; he says that “they consist of CH, NH3, N, and sometimes also of H2S,” while the offensive smell is caused by the presence of trimethylamine, amylic, butyric, propionic, and formic acids. The trades exposed to such emanations are tanners, catgut and gelatine makers, butchers, soap-boilers, candle makers, fullers, and cheese makers. In some of these trades, particularly in catgut and gelatine making, the odours are extraordinarily offensive, and, indeed, insupportable to persons who are unaccustomed to them. Yet Hirt declares that no injurious results follow. What be says about the gelatine makers may be quoted as an illustration. After remarking that the smell in the places where the manufacture goes on is truly insupportable by those who are unaccustomed to it, and that quantities of gases are developed (especially when lime is not sufficiently used) whose effect on the organ of smell defies description, and must be experienced in order to be known and feared, he goes on to say, “ It is quite unproved that these evil-smelling gases and vapours in the gelatine manufacture are in any way injurious ; on the contrary, when we study the state of health of these workmen, we are forced to the opinion that these vapours possess the property to strengthen the bodies of those who continually breathe them, and in this way con- tribute to the improvement of the health of the labourers. Inquiries in a tolerably large number of Silesian gelatine factories and white leather tanneries (where, also, much gelatine is often made), and observations on many artisans concerned with gelatine boiling, have convinced me of the correctness of this opinion. No single case has come before me where any affection, either of the lungs or ol the digestive organs, has been proved to have any connection with these vapours. AYe are, therefore, not in a position to recognise any un- healthy action in the odours of the gelatine manufacture.” The effect of repulsive odours of this kind is, then, it is supposed, limited to the sense of smell, which soon acquires an extraordinary decree of tolerance. AYbat is the exact composition of these odours ? They are, no doubt, of organic nature, and not stable like a gas ; con- sequently they are probably destroyed soon after their absorption into the blood, or they may not be absorbed at all, but remain outside the body That they render the workmen actually healthier, as Hirt implies, seems unlikely, and possibly the high wages given in these repulsive trades, and the better food thus obtained, may have most to do with the high standard of health. Zinc vapours.—In reference to the “ brass-founders ague oi Hreen-