COMPLICATIONS ANt) ACCIDENTS OF PUEGNANCY. 41? peral state exerts a determining influence on tlie localisation or form of tubercular disease. The evil influence ol pregnancy and the puerperal state on phthisis is most evident in hereditary predisposition. Should parturient tuberculous women pass favorably through the puerperal state they will have but little milk, and can only exceptionally nurse their children, which, are generally very sickly and liable later to become scrofulous and still later tuberculous. Dr. Barnes gives the following as the summary of his Lumleian lectures on the convulsive diseases of women: i. Pregnancy and labour require for their due fulfilment an extraordinary supply of nerve force. 2. This extraordinary supply of nerve force implies a correspond- ing organic development of the spinal cord. 3. The provision of an extraordinary supply of nerve force implies a greatly augmented irrita- bility of the nervous centres, rendering them more susceptible to emotional and peripheral impressions. 4. The disturbances in nutri- tion occasioned by pregnancy almost always entail some alteration of the blood, which increases the irritability of the nervous centres, and favours the evolution of any latent convulsive or rather nervous diathesis, as chorea, epilepsy, or vomiting. 5. When the blood-change wrought by pregnancy is marked by albuminuria, a poisonous action of peculiar intensity is exerted upon the nervous centres tending to pro- duce eclampsia. 6. Obstinate vomiting in pregnancy probably some- times proves fatal by the development of an unknown organic or systemic morbid process. 7. Menstruation resembles pregnancy in giving rise to an exalted central nervous erethism, and ovulation is a primary existing cause of epileptic, vomitive, and hysterical conwilsion. 8. At the climacteric age, again, there is renewed susceptibility to con- vulsive disease. 9. Pregnancy, by evoking or producing convulsive diseases, under certain known and passing conditions, puts to the test the various theories of the pathology of these diseases. 10. The rational treatment of convulsive diseases in women must take into account the two great factors in the production of these diseases, viz., exalted nervous irritability under the stimulus of the reproductive functions and lowered or empoisoned conditions of the blood. (‘ Obst. Journ.,’ 1873.) Complications and Accidents of Pregnancy. Dr. Koratsch reports (£ Memorabilien,’ 1873) two cases of acute atrophy of the liver. Pirst case: a woman, set. 26, who bad previously enjoyed good health, was attacked with jaundice 14 days before delivery. The day before her confinement she had severe pains in the belly, felt extremely weak, and was much agitated. The urine was analysed by Prof. Better v. Perger, and gave the following results : a deep yellow colour, and with a feebly bilious odour, sp. gr. 1028 ; with 93-48 per cent, ot water. The quantity of tyrosin and leucin was increased; the urea was as low as 13 per cent.; there was a considerable quantity of cholepyrrhin ; the sulphates and phosphates were diminished. The sedi- ment was rich in epithelial elements and crystals of tyrosin. The labour was easy, and luemorrbage was quickly arrested. The following day the temperature was raised, stupor and convulsions came on, and 27