10 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. pig the weight of the blood to that of the entire body is as x: i2’o— 12 3 5 in an adult dog as i: ii-2—12'$ ; in a puppy as x : i6’2—i y8 ; in an adult cat as i ; io’4—11-9 ; in a kitten as 1 : 17-3—i8'4 ; and in an adult fasting as 1: 17-8. Ales. Schmidt * has published the results of numerous further re- searches he has made on the composition and mode of formation of fibrin. He contends for the individuality of his Jibrino-plastic substance (paraglobulin), which Briicke had called in question. It falls from its alkaline solution on exact neutralization with acetic acid. 100 ccm. of the blood-serum of the ox contains from 0-72—0.8 gramme of para- globulin; the serum of the blood of the horse contains 0-31 to 0-56 gramme in 100 ccm. It is soluble in acetic acid, solution of soda, and other neutral alkaline salts. It dissolves in water when either oxygen or carbonic acid gas is transmitted through it, and when dissolved by either gas it is precipitated when the other is transmitted through the fluid. Schmidt’s fibrinogenous substance does not fall on exact neutra- lization, but requires an excess of acetic acid. Schmidt describes, in addition, a third substance as necessary to the formation of fibrin— namely, fibrin-ferment. This is not preformed in the blood, but is developed in it after its removal from the body, for blood allowed to flow from the vein into alcohol gives no active ferment. The relative proportion of the ferment continues to increase till coagulation is completed. It can be precipitated with other substances from blood serum by the addition of a large volume of alcohol, and can be obtained in a state of purity by evaporating the precipitate to dryness and ex- tracting with cold water. The ferment does not proceed either from the red or white corpuscles of the blood. Schmidt no longer thinks the red blood-corpuscles are rich in fibrino-plastic substance, but believes that the hsemato-crystallin they contain has a special power of hasten- ing coagulation. This is an example of the so-called action by contact, and is shared with hasmato-crystallin by carbon, platinum, asbestos, and animal ferments. Balk,1 2 having observed that the blood in the capillary vessels does not coagulate after death, set himself to determine the reason, and attributes it to a deficiency in the amount of fibrinogen present. The gases of the blood, he thinks, play no part in the matter. Smee3 endeavours to show that the coagulation of the blood takes place in obedience to a purely physical law, namely, the power of soluble colloid matter, whether organic or inorganic, to pectize or, in other words, spontaneously to coagulate. Zielonko 4 and Plosz and Tiegel5 * * 8 have obtained a sugar-producing ferment from the blood. N. G-rehant0 1 ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ Band vi, 1872. 2 ‘Virchow’s Archiv/ B. lix, 1873, p. 26. 3 ‘Humphry and Turner’s Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,’ 1873, p. 210. 4 ‘ Centralblatt f. d. Med Wiss.,’ 1874, p. 609, “Zur Frage von der Bilduug homo- gener Membranen und Fibrins hei Einfiihrung der Hornhaut in den Lymphsack des Frosches.” 8 ‘Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ B. vii, 1873, p. 391. 8 ‘ Comptes rendus,’ t. lxxv, p. 495, and ‘ Journ. of Chem. Society,’ abstract by Brunton, 1872, p. 1030.