REPORT ON SURGERY. 842 interference in cases of intussusception occurring in infants less than a year old. 2. When the symptoms present, and particularly the ex- istence of intestinal haemorrhage, render it probable that the closeness of the intussusception will lead to sloughing of the invaginated portion, no operation is advisable; for, while under these circumstances an operation would almost surely fail, there is a fair hope that separa- tion of the invaginated mass may lead to spontaneous recovery. 3. There may be, however, exceptional cases in which, while there is no prospect of recovery through sloughing, bloodless remedies fail to give relief and the patient is in danger of succumbing through exhaustion and long continued suffering; under such circumstances, if the age and general condition of the patient do not forbid it, the question of opera- tive interference may properly be considered, 4. When an operation is determined on, laparotomy should invariably be preferred to either enterotomy or colotomy; these, though suitable operations in cases of congenital occlusion and chronic obstruction of the bowels, are unsuited for cases of intussusception or other varieties of acute obstruction. 5. In cases of acute intestinal obstruction from other causes than in- tussusception, should milder measures fail to give relief in the course of three, or at most, four days, laparotomy should be unhesitatingly recom- mended, and may, under such circumstances, be resorted to with a reasonable hope of success. Intussusception; yastrotomy.—The patient was a child, aged five months. The intussusception could be felt from the anus and through the abdominal wall. Other attempts failing, the abdomen was opened in the median line by Dr. John Duncan, who found the small intestine invaginated through the caecum into the colon. He could not pull out the intussuscepted part, but by process of taxis, pushing from below, aided slightly by pulling, he succeeded. The child rallied and remained well for a day, and then died suddenly, apparently from syncope. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1874.) Intussusception.—Dr. Stephen Rogers contributed a paper on this subject to the ‘Trans. Med. Soc.,’ New York. He narrates an inter- esting case in a boy, seven years old, who recovered without sloughing of intestine on the fourth day from that on which the acute symptoms were first manifested. The treatment which proved most effectual con- sisted in—(1) the administration of morphia, (2) the elevation of the pelvis, (3) the repeated use of enemata of salt water, and (4) mani- pulation and kneading of the abdomen. (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Soc.,’ Jan. 1874.) . . Dr. Affleck records two cases of intussusception m children. Une patient recovered, the other died. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1873.) Double intussusception in an infant.—A male infant, a3t. 6 months, suffered from symptoms of diarrhoea for three weeks. At the end of the first week a lump was supposed to be noticed in left iliac region. A fortnight later, a portion of intestine was passed per anum, and the child died some twenty hours afterwards. At the post mortem, an invaginated portion of gut was found in left iliac region. On section, five layers were discovered, and it appeared that at one part an intussusception of the lower gut into the upper had occurred. One portion was absent (from