7 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. uterus presents lymph-vessels and lymph-spaces; the latter are lined by endothelium, and lie between the muscular bundles. The lymphatic- vessels form a rich plexus in the outer layers. The lymphatics of the serous layer form groups of vessels on the anterior and posterior sur- faces of the organ in man, with large dilations. J. Arnold1 has de- scribed a system of vessels connecting the blood-vessels with the true lymphatics in various parts of the body, and particularly in glandular organs. The intermediate system of vessels present irregular dilatations, and it is to their distension that the swelling in venous stasis and oedema is due. The diapedesis of the red corpuscles, or apparent passage of the red corpuscles through the walls ot the blood- vessels, is simply the escape of corpuscles through openings in the vascular wall into the intermediate channels. Hammarsten" gives the results of careful investigation upon the quantity of gases con- tained in the lymph of the dog. One of his analyses of pure lymph from one extremity of the animal gave—total gases 37’ 10 per cent, by volume, which was composed of N1/20, 0 o'oS. C02 obtained without addition of acid, i8'22 C02; after addition of acid, i7‘6o ; total C02, 33-82. Schwalbe8 has examined the lymphatics of the retina and of the vitreous, F. Morano those of the choroid, Gr. Thin4 those of the cornea, Bowditch 5 those of the fasciae. Schwalbe finds that both the veins and capillaries of the retina are invested by lymphatic sheaths, but not the arteries. The sheaths can be injected for about one sixth of an inch from the optic papilla. There is also a lymphatic sac into which injection percolates between the vitreous and membrana limitans retinae. The central canal of the vitreous is in some instances filled with injection. The injection proceeds from the inner optic nerve sheath, which, again, is in connection with the general lymphatic system. Morano has observed lymphatic sheaths investing the capillaries of the choroid, and, like Arnold, describes a system of vessels connecting the blood-vessels and lymphatics. Paschutin 6 examined the flow of lymph from the fore limbs of dogs, and gives the steps of the necessary dissections. He finds it is the result of a secretory process, not of mere transudation, and that it is most abundantly formed during active motion. After poisoning with woorara, the rapidity of secretion increases, reaches its maximum in forty or fifty minutes, and then gradually decreases. Increased blood supply to the limb does not per se cause increased secretion of lymph, an impor- tant result which is in opposition to generally received opinions. An in- creased temperature accelerates the outflow. Analysis of the lymph, with the object of showing the percentage amount of fixed residue, showed that it varied from 2 61 to 6-55 per cent. N. Emminghaus,7 1 ‘ Centralblatt/ 1874, No. 1. 2 ‘ Ludwig’s Arbeiten,’ 1872, B. vi, p. 121 ; “Ueber die Gase der Hundelyinph.” 3 ‘ Leipziger Physiolog. Arbeiten,’ Band vii, 1872. 4 ‘Proceed, of the Amer. Acad, of Arts and Sci.,’ Feb. 11, 1873. 5 ‘Lancet/ Feb. 14, 1874. G ‘Ludwig’s Arbeiten/ B. vii, 1985 abstract by Stirling in ‘Humphry and Turner’s Journ. of Anat./ vol. viii, p. 199. 7 ‘Sachs. Acad. Sitzungsber./ 1873, p. 396-448, and ‘Ludwig’s Arbeiten/ 1874, Band vii, p. 51.