NASO-i’llARYNGEAL POLYPUS. *91 A note of remarks by Mr. Rose on this subject (with details of cases) before the Medical Society will be found in the ‘Lancet, Dec. 26, Mr. T. P. Pick records various cases of cleft palate on which he has operated. (‘St. Geo. IIosp. Rep.,’vi, 147O T , , n , Mr. Mason contributes some clinical remarks to the -Lancet, uct. 24, 1874. Illustrations of his method of operating are given. Rldnoplastie operation.—Mr. Wood successfully formed a coveting for the greater part of the nose by a series of operations described and figured. (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Dec. 27, 1873.) _ Removal of naso-pharyngeal polypus.—0. Karpiuski (‘Berliner Kli- nische Wochenschrift,’ April 27, 1874) operated by Yon Bruns’ method in the case of a soldier, set. 21, who had a naso-pharyngeal polypus, attended with frequent hsemorrhage. The pedicle was attached near the opening of the Eustachian tube. On raising the left half of the nose so much bleeding followed that it was necessary to plug the part and to defer the completion of the operation for two days. The polypus (a myxosarcoma) was removed, and a tampon soaked in liquor ferri perchloridi was applied to the stump of the pedicle. The nose was re- placed at the end of a week, when the plug was removed and the remains of the tumour extirpated. Healing took place rapidly, and the patient had no return of the disease six months after the operation. (Yon Bruns’ method was described in the ‘ Biennial Retrospect ’ for 1871-72, p. 233.) Removal of naso-pharyngeal polypus by displacement of the superior maxillary bone.—Mr. Cooper Forster narrates a case in which he removed a very large naso-pharyngeal polypus by slitting the upper lip and nostril on the right side, removing the right median incisor, sawing through the intermaxillary bone, and the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and turning the bone forcibly outwards after dividing the hard palate with bone forceps. The growth was then well exposed and removed without much hsemorrhage. The palate process was not divided, and so the bone, when replaced, was better supplied with blood. The growth rapidly returned. The patient then came under the care of Mr. Heath, who removed the new growth with the galvanic eraseur, but the patient gradually sank. (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xviii, 37.) Treatment of a naso-pharyngeal polypus by the galvanic cautery.— Ciniselli had under his care in the hospital at Cremona a patient suf- fering from a pharyngeal polypus which interfered with respiration, deglutition, and speech. On examination through the mouth the entire wall of the pharynx was found to be occupied by a fleshy swelling, which completely blocked up the left aperture of the nares and pressed the epiglottis against the base of the tongue. The starting-point of the tumour could not be discovered. The patient being extremely emaci- ated and ansemic, any operation involving loss of blood was impossible ; and therefore Ciniselli determined to apply the galvanic cautery. On November 20, 1869, he commenced with a small Grevet’s battery of eight elements. The rheophores, of steel, were about qf inches long, and were covered with india rubber to about an inch from the ends. The needle of the negative pole was introduced through the left nostril