EXCISION OP THE SCAPULA. 270 condition stilt remained five years after the operation. The operative procedure differed somewhat from that generally followed. Michel made a large flap with its base outwards, by first carrying an incision from the inferior angle of the scapula along its inner border as iar as the clavicle, and then making two incisions from the end of this, one to the outer end of the clavicle, aud the other (the lower one) parallel to it along the lateral surface of the chest. The arteries were tied before being divided, the clavicle was sawn through, and the operation was completed without much difficulty. Excision of the scapula and nearly the entire clavicle for disease. Mr. Jeaftreson relates the case of a young lady, set. 20, suffering from malignant disease about the shoulder, in which he performed amputa- tion at the shoulder-joint, and subsequently removed the scapula and nearly the entire clavicle. An incision was made in the direction of the spine of the scapula; another from the lower part of the axilla along the upper border of the latissimus dorsi; a third perpendicular one joined these two at their distal extremities, and thus the integu- ment covering the scapula was reflected. An incision was made along the length of the clavicle, the bone cleared, a piece removed from the middle, and the subclavian vessels cleared so that they could be com- pressed. The muscles were detached from the scapula and the skin from the triangles of the neck, the deeper attachments of the scapula, &c., quickly divided, commencing at the angle. Finally, an incision was made at the inner and middle thirds of the clavicle, and passing downwards and outwards to join the one parallel with the latissimus dorsi, and the whole mass was detached. The patient left her room in less than a month. The disease consisted of ivory-like bone chiefly. The first disease was encephaloid. Recurrence is mentioned in a foot- note to the paper. (‘Lancet,’ May 30, 1874.) Excision of the scapula; recovery.—Mr. Spence records a case in which he successfully removed the entire scapula for a tumour which for twenty years seemed of a simple character, and latterly had a malignant rapidity, &c., of growth. An incision was made from the posterior part of the acromion obliquely downwards and backwards over the tumour to beyond the inferior angle of the scapula, dividing freely the fascia and fibres of the infra-spinatus muscle. The point of the bistoury was then entered over the clavicle internal to the coraco- clavicular ligaments, and carried backwards over the acromion into the first incision, so as to complete a long incision from the outer part of the clavicle to the inferor angle of the scapula. Another was made from the superior angle of the scapula obliquely downwards and forwards over the tumour towards the neck of the scapula. The flaps were then reflected, and the attachments of the trapezius and deltoid to the spine divided. The clavicle was cleared, the axillary artery com- pressed, the coracoid process cleared after hooking the finger under it the head of the humerus disarticulated, the long head of triceps divided, the scapula carried backwards and drawn from the body, and the remaining attachments severed. The microscopic examination of the growth did not reveal any structure definitely carcinomatous, Difficulty was experienced in the after treatment owing to projection