204 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. fact that, dense and hard at first, the growth became more soft and juicy, when it burst into a cavity. In the second case numerous tumours were' seated in the dip loo, which, destroyiDg portions of the bone, divided it into a series of plates connected loosely with one another. There were similar tumours in the ribs, vertebra), and sacrum, and secondary ones in the liver, spleen, and cervical glands. In the third case the new growth seems to have commenced in the “ os tribasilare ” (basilar'por- tions of occipital and sphenoid bones) and the upper cervical vertebra • and tumours of the same nature were found in the ribs, but not in the viscera. Drawings of the skull in the first, and of the vertebne in the second case, accompany the paper. J. Zahn gives (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xv, 143) the microscopical charac- ters of a tumour which was situated on the right side of the neck of a man, rnt. 35, which had been very rapid in its growth. It was about the size of a child’s head, somewhat soft in consistence, of a greenish- yellow colour, and was made of several portions, each the size of a hen’s egg. These were separated from one another by capsules of thick connective tissue, broad trabeculae of which ran into the interior of the tumours. In parts the tumours were homogeneous, in parts their struc- ture was alveolar, and from the latter could be pressed out masses of cells like those of obstructed sebaceous glands (comedones). Micro- scopic examination showed that there had been a hyperplasia of the lymphatic tissue, and that in the process the trabeculae of the stroma had undergone granular change and disappeared, that the cells had lost their nuclei and become developed into peculiar masses, in which again were seen nucleated cells in a firmly granular protoplasm. In the most highly developed portions of the tumour these cells composed the comedo-like masses which lay within the cancroid alveoli; they were membrane-less, larger than lymph-corpuscles, mostly spindle-shaped, their nuclei were oval and sharply defined, and contained clear shining nucleoli. It is supposed that the primary step here was not a deve- lopment of these cells, but of the stroma, which was found first in the region of the flake-like masses, and that this fact essentially separates the new growth from the carcinomata. The blood-vessels of the lymph- follicles had disappeared with them, but new ones had been formed in the new alveolar stroma. The cells in the older part of the tumour had undergone partly colloid and partly fatty degeneration. Reserving the term carcinoma for new growths originating in epithelial structures, the author gives to this, which sprang from the cervical lymph-glands, and belongs to the series of connective tissues, the name of Sarcoma alveolare epitheloides. Duret, “ Note sur un cas de sarcome, developpe sur un na)vus pigmentaire; aspect carcinomateux d’une partie do la Tumeur ” (with plate), ‘Arch, de Pliys., v, 319- Fritze, “ Hartes Spindelzellensarcome von Metacarpus des Daumens,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lvii, 294. Kapuscinski, “ Retroperitonaal Sarcome” (two cases, in woman and man, commencing probably in one kidney), Berlin, 1873. Buck, “Ein Fall von multipier primarer Sarcomatose des Knockeumarks und eiue eigentkumlicke Affection der vier grosser Gelenke ” (with plates), Halle, 1873. Peikert, “Ueker Knocliensarcome,” Berlin, 1873. Liouville, “Cas de sarcome generalise des sereuses cliez un rat” (can- cerous masses in peritoneum, pleurae, pericardium; haemonbagic pleurisy and peii- tonitis ; pericarditis; cysticerus in peritoneum), ‘ Arch, de 1 hys., v, 206. Skepkeul,