458 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. pital three hours after taking the spirits. He was then comatose, and livid, with frothy mucus oozing from the mouth and nostrils. The pulse was fluttering, the skin cold and clammy, the pupils unequal and inactive. By means of the stomach-pump enough spirit was withdrawn to make “more than a gallon of strong brandy and water.” He never rallied, spite of treatment, and died nineteen hours after his debauch. At the post-mortem examination the stomach was found slightly congested at its cardiac end. The lungs were intensely congested. The bronchial tubes were intensely congested and filled with sanious fluid. There was merely slight congestion of the membranes of the brain • the ventricles of the brain were perfectly dry, and the substance of the brain of natural appearance. The other organs were congested, but otherwise healthy. Petroleum Oil.—Two cases of poisoning by petroleum oils are pub- lished by M. Chevallier,1 and one case of asphyxia from the inhalation of the vapours given off from a half-extinguished paraffin lamp. In the case where the oil was swallowed, tetanic convulsions were a prominent symptom. Nitrous oxide.—A case of death from the administration of nitrous oxide as an anaesthetic is related.3 A dentist gave the gas to a lady, at her own desire, in order to annul pain during the extraction of a molar tooth. A physician carefully examined her before the operation, and gave it as his opinion that there was nothing to preclude the use of the gas. The nitrous oxide was pure; it had been safely used for other patients from the same condenser, and an apparatus was used for securing the removal of the expired air. The total quantity administered was about six gallons. Soon after the commencement of the inhalation the pulse became rapid and less full. The patient was then sensible, and the apparatus was removed. The operation was now commenced, but the lady insisted on having more of the gas. She took it again, insensibility supervened, and the operation was completed. Imme- diately afterwards the face became livid, the features began to swell, and the tongue protruded. Efforts were made to restore her, but she did not recover from her insensibility. She breathed two or three times, and the pulse then ceased. There was no autopsy. Poisoning by Sewer-gases.—Dr. L. Blumenstock3 details four very interesting cases of death from the inhalation of sewer and privy gases, and collates the post-mortem appearances with the well-known and almost unique accounts given by Casper in his ‘ Handbook of Eor- ensic Medicine.’ Blumenstock considers that the post-mortem appear- ances are characteristic of this form of death, and are by no means to be confounded with those observed after death from simple suffocation : that indeed, as will be generally admitted, the death is caused by a veritable poisoning process. The special post-mortem appearances observed in all the cases agree closely with those noted by Casper, and 1 ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxxix, p. 56. 2 ‘Lancet,’ 1873, i, p. 178. 3 ‘ Vrtljlirssclir. f. Gcrichtl. Mecl.,’ xviii,p. 295.