270 Hepoe/t on surgeuy. cases of operations on the neck and trunk, avoiding much loss of blood, namely, by shutting up the blood in one or two of the limbs before the operation is commenced. If the patient becomes anaemic, it is only necessary to loosen the ring and allow a fresh supply of blood to flow into the body. At the time of publishing his essay in ‘ Volkmann’s Sammlung’ in 1873, Esmarch had employed his method in 87 operations, viz. 21 amputations and exarticulations, 8 resections, 13 operations for necrosis, 13 extirpations of tumours, besides several minor operations. At the meeting of the Surgical Congress in Berlin, in April, 1874, he stated that from February 1, 1873, to April 1, 1874, above 200 bloodless operations had been performed at Kiel. Among them were the follow- ing :—Amputations.—Thigh, 10 cases (one death from erysipelas and pyaemia) ; leg, 11 cases (one death from the same causes) ; humerus, 3 cases (no death). Disarticulations.—Shoulder-joint, 1 case (cured); hip-joint, 1 case (died of exhaustion). Resections.—Hip joint, 3 cases (one death from septicaemia); knee-joint,3 cases (no death; subsequent amputation in one case) ; elbow-joint, 2 cases (no death; subsequent amputation in one case). In his communication to the German Surgical Congress in 1874 Esmarch pointed out, as the principal advantage of his method, the small loss of blood and the consequent diminution of the liability to traumatic diseases, the avoidance of infection through the use of sponges, and the avoidance of excessive local pressure on the vascular trunks, such as is produced by the tourniquet and by digital compression. He had never met with the drawbacks, such as paralysis, gangrene, &e., described by other surgeons. He attributed the paralysis to too tight constriction ; it was not necessary, he said, to draw the first turn of the tubing very tight; besides, the arteries could be compressed by the application of an india-rubber bandage. The production of local anaes- thesia, by Richardson’s ether spray or otherwise, was facilitated by the production of local anaemia. The plan could be followed in disarticula- tion of the shoulder- and hip-joints. In enucleation of the hip-joint, he recommended compression of the abdominal aorta by an elastic bandage passed round the body, and having beneath it a pad lying over the vessel. Prof, von Langenbeck read a paper on this subject at a meeting of the Berlin Medical Society on December 3, 1873 (published in ‘ Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift/ December 29, 1873; discussion in same journal, January 19, 1874). He said that the endeavour to prevent loss of blood by applying constriction to the limbs was not new. In cases of amputation of the upper part of the thigh, where the patient was very weak and much loss of blood was dangerous, he had for some years been accustomed to compress the main artery for some time, then to envelop the limb in a wet bandage from the feet upwards, and to apply the tourniquet. Esmarch’s method differed essentially from this, in that it enabled a perfectly bloodless operation to be performed. He recognised the advantages of the plan in enabling the surgeon to operate with greater ease, not being hindered by the eflusion of blood in the