PHTHISIS. 151 eases where limited consolidations exist and the pyrexia cannot be reduced in other ways. Their employment does not seem to be attended with much risk, except, possibly, m “ large cavity eases where there is danger of death by collapse or haemorrhage, ike good results obtained are for the most part merely temporary. Souplet (“ De l’emploi des Bains tiedes dans les Maladies, de Poitrine, et en particulier dans la Phthisie Pulmonaire,’ ‘Arch. Hen., xxii <40) finds that tepid baths in which the patient is allowed to stay from twenty to forty-five minutes lower the pulse and temperature, prevent night sweats, increase the appetite, and generally improve the condition. No inconvenience was attributed to them in nine cases oi phthisis, two of pneumonia, and two of pleurisy. Gllobm (‘ Ueber den Emfluss der Luftdichtigkeit auf Lungen- schwindsucht,’ Berlin, 1873) holds that the rarer atmosphere of elevated regions acts through the increased flow of blood to the vessels of the lungs, thus hindering the process of cooling (? Rep.) ; while com- pressed air, causing decreased flow of blood, causes also decrease of the catarrh. After some very lengthy introductory remarks on the value of rest in the treatment of Consumption (‘Lancet,’ 1873, ii, 552) J. B. Ber- kart states that in cases of this affection he has bandaged the chest with strips of adhesive plaster, so as to produce immobility of the lungs. He has never seen any inconvenience arise from it; the patients seem to derive immediate relief; the cough, expectoration, and frequency of respiration, decrease. The Pathological Society of London indulged in a long discussion on <( The Anatomical Belations of Pulmonary Phthisis to Tubercle of the Lung,” which is reported at length in its ‘ Transactions ’ (xxiv, 284), and, with various remarks, in the journals of the day (Marcb? April, 18731). Heitzmann, “Ueber Tuberkelbildung,” ‘Wien. Med, Jahrb.,’ 1874, 217, Bollin* ger, “ Zur Kenntniss dep desquamativen und kiisigen Pneumonie,” ‘Arcb, f. Exp, Path.,’i, 376. Sommerbrodt, “Ueber die Abhangigkeit phthisischer Lungenerkran- kung von primaren Kolilkopf affection en,” ib„ 264. Springmuhl, ‘Die Ursache dor chronischen LungenBchwindsucht,’ B&le, 1873, pp, 43. Wucherer, “Ueber die zuhnehmende Haufigkeit der Phthisis in Brasilien, besonders in der Stadt Bahia,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ xi, 471. Nothnagel, “Ueber Diagnose und Aotiologie dor Einseitigen Lungenschrumpfung,” ‘Volkmann’s Vortr.,’ ser. iii, No. 66. Grancher, ‘ De l’Unite de la Phthisie,’ Paris, 1873, pp. 49. Pollock, “Lectures on certain Clinical Varieties of Consumption,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1874, i, 609, &c. Green, “Notes on the Pathology of Pulmonary Phthisis,” ib., ii, 600. Marcet, “ On Consumption, a form of Septicaemia,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, ii, 520. Jenner, “Acute Pulmonary Tuberculosis with almost complete absence of pyrexia,” ib., 1873, i, 370. Ringer, ‘On the Temperature of the Body as a means for the Diagnosis and Prognosis in Phthisis,’ London, 1873, 2nd edit. Handheld Jones, “ Clinical Lecture on two cases of Phthisis,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1873, ii, 85. Dobell, “A Contribution to the Natural History of Pulmonary Consumption, consisting of an analysis of 100 male cases of Haemoptysis,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ lvii, 261. Teissier, “Des Hemorrhagies bronchiques envisagees dans leur rapport avec la Phthisie pulmonaire: observation d’hemoptysie par cause traumatique ayant occasione la phthisie,” ‘ Lyon Med.,’ xii, 1 It would be utterly useless to attempt to give any abstract of this discussion, which, in one form or another, will be continued ad nauseam till speakers qnt\ writers arrive at some comjjiou definition of “ tubercle,”—A, B, S,