345 HERNIA—IMPERFORATE ANUS. muscle: femoral liernia in front of it. Another symptom is the presenco of pain passing down the inner side of the thigh to the knee, and some- times even as far as the great toe ; it arises from pressure on the obtu- rator nerve, and is increased by pressure on the hernia. Examination by the rectum and vagina is of the highest importance. In the treatment, the taxis will sometimes succeed. If it fail, the hand must he passed into the vagina or rectum, and an attempt mado to reduce the hernia by drawing it out of the foramen. Removal of hcemorrhoidal and other tumours.—Mr. Henry Lee reviews the different operations practised by Brodie and others for the removal of haemorrhoids, and remarks on the rapidity with which an elastic cord will cut its way through. He himself finds the best way of removing a pile is to grasp it at its base with a clamp made in the shape of a pair of scissors curved on the flat and with the points turned inward (a figure is given). One curved arm is thin and slips through a slit in the other. The advantages of this clamp are —i. That, being curved horizontally, it can be inserted between the nates, so as to grasp the base of the pile,, without the latter being forcibly dragged down. 2. From the limbs of the instrument being curved inward, every portion of the pile is equally compressed and no part can possibly slip. 3. One blade is made to play within the other so that they cannot be displaced by any horizon- tal pressure. 4. The blades are sufficiently thin to allow nearly the whole, even, of a small tumour to project and consequently to be removed, on the concave surface of the clamp. After being grasped by the clamp the pile is cut off with a pair of scissors of the same shape, and the cut surface seared with an iron after it has passed from a dull red to a black heat. Mr. Lee has removed a large portion of the tongue with a similar instrument, and also a testicle affected with soft cancer, weighing rather less than a pound. The cord was seized with the clamp and cut with a pair of curved scissors. The cut surface was then seared in the way described. The wound was closed with carbolised sutures and healed very satisfactorily, although the patient had an attack of erysipelas of the skin covering some enlarged glands of the opposite groin. The heated iron is preferable to the galvanic cautery. (‘ Lancet,’ April 18, 1874.) Resection of the os coccygis in cases of imperforate anus.—M. Verneuil first performed this operation in 1864, and he has, in all, excised the os coccygis in five cases of imperforate anus, where the end of the rec- tum lay too deep to be easily reached. After removing from half a centimetre to a centimetre (0^4 to o’8 inch) of the coccyx, the rectum was easily reached, and could be fixed to the skin without much stretch- ing, especially where the bowel had a backward direction. Of the five children operated on, two recovered—a fairly good result, when it is remembered in what a weak state such children generally are when brought to the surgeon. (‘ Gazette Hebdomadaire de Medecine et ae Chirurgie,’ No. 25, 1873.) Professor Th. Kocher has employed Yerneuil’s process in extirpation of the rectum on account of cancer. The field of operation was thereby rendered more accessible, and the escape of secretion from the wound and of faeces more easy. Dr. Kocher has operated in this way