GLANDS. 31 In the last ‘ Biennial Report ’ the experiments;of Hitzig on the locali- sation of cerebral centres in the brain were referred to. He has since repeated and extended his researches, and has collected his observa- tions in a small volume. His experiments have been repeated by H. Nothnagel,1 by Braun,3 by Burdon-Sanderson,"’ and by Ferrier. Nothnagel found that pricking the posterior part of the posterior lobes of the cerebrum m the rabbit caused sudden and violent springing^ movements forwards, lasting for several minutes. Ho disturbance ot sensibility could be demonstrated. Slight wounds of the optic thalamus were without effect, but deeper pricks brought the adductors of the opposite leg into play. Wounds of the posterior half, especially towards the base, caused the head to be turned to the opposite side, and the forelegs to move, the one on the same side outwards, on the opposite inwards. Braun denies that the dura mater is as sensitive as Hitzig conceives it to be. He finds that there are sometimes two centres, the irritation of which produces similar effects on the same side of the hemisphere. He thinks the view that the effects observed when the surface of the hemisphere is stimulated are due to conduction to deep or distant parts is negatived by the fact he has observed, that when such a centre has been discovered, if an oblique cut be made dividing the descending fibres, all manifestations of irritation cease ; and again, if the grey substance of a centre be shaved off, the application of the electrodes to the cut white surface (fibres) produces the same effects. Burdon- Sanderson has shown that there are points in the corpus striatum which correspond to those of the same hemisphere, though Dr. Ferrier this only a medullary cone, corresponding to the cortical centre, has been removed. Hitzig5 is also opposed to Dr. Sanderson’s statements as matters of fact. Ferrier, from experiments on various animals, con- of intelligence. The individual convolutions are separate and distinct, and the centres for the various movements of the eyelids, the face, the mouth and tongue, the ear, the neck, the hand, foot, and tail, are localised in certain definite groups of convolutions. Striking differences corre- 1 ‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ 1873, lviii, p. 420, and lx, p. 129. 2 ‘ Eckhard’s Beitrage,’ Band vii. 3 ‘ Centralhlatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,’ 1874, p. 514. 4 ‘West Riding Lunatic Asylum Reports,’ 1873, vol. iii, n. 20-0.6. See also paper read before Roy. Soc., 1874, March 5. thinks that in the cases where Dr. Sanderson believes he has proved eludes that the anterior portions of the cerebral hemispheres are the chief centres of voluntary motion apd the active outward manifestation 6 ‘ Centralhlatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,’ 1874, p. 548.