CHOROIDITIS—NEURITIS FROM LEAD POISONING. 373 pupil, and has no inclination to become chronic. The.choroid is thought to be the chief seat of the disease and the tissue first involved. The course of the affection is very varied and subject to relapses, which are diagnosed by loss of acuteness of vision, a return ot the hemeralopia and photopsy, before the ophthalmoscope gives any appre- ciable changes. The results he has obtained have been mostly favorable, with a more or less lowered acuteness of vision, sometimes a high degree of amblyopia with visus reticulatus, and rarely perfect restoration.. "Where the acuteness of vision is under a or vitreous opacities ot different forms, small or great changes in the choroidal pigment, atrophy of the retina, or white spots of round or radiating forms in the region of the macula lutea, are found. The optic disc is of a homogeneous yellow white, with the vessels few and thready, giving so exactly the appearances seen in retinitis pigmentosa, that the differentiation of the two affections by the objective appearances only may be very difficult. He avers that it comes much more frequently in later life than in youth. Of 55 cases two were in their 24th year, and the remainder were over 27, 14 of them being between 51 and 60. It occurs equally in males and females in hospital practice, both together giving a proportion of 21 in every thousand ophthalmic cases. The treatment he relies upon is the mercurial, with simultaneous residence in a dark room for at least four weeks. Corrosive sublimate or calomel he has seen benefit from, but relapses were frequent after the former, and always after the latter, while all those cases where no relapse occurred were those in which mercurial inunction had been employed till the beginning of mercurial stomatitis was observed with a sojourn in a dark room, for the most of the time in bed. He thinks the use of the artificial leech and large blisters on the neck are useful secondary means, but to be used in connection with the mercurial treat- ment and not to be relied upon alone. (Graefe’s ‘Arch. f. Ophth.,’ xx, Abth. i, p. 33.) Optic neuritis from lead-poisoning.—Dr. Schneller (‘ Zehender’s Klin, Monat.,’ 1871, p. 240) records a case of optic neuritis from lead- poisoning. The patient was a house painter, set. 44. As an appren- tice he had suffered from an attack of lead-colic. Four years previously he had had a chancre, not followed by any secondary symptoms. He was a smoker. Eight days before he had complained of defect of sight. He had M. 1. r. ; V. 1. TyTT) r. |2. Colours, as far as could be tested by coloured papers, were correctly distinguished. The peripheral field of vision was unaffected. The pupils were somewhat dilated. Ophthal- moscopically the discs were considerably reddened, not swollen, slightly hazy; the borders were a little indistinct (left above, inner side and below, the right only below), being covered by a slightly reddish layer, which caused the retinal vessels to be almost imperceptible in places! The haziness only extended very slightly beyond the borders of the discs.. The arteries were very tortuous; the veins resembled the arteries in thickness and appearance (having a central light streak and two red lateral ones) so much that they could only be distinguished from them with difficulty. In other respects the fundus in each eye eeemed normal. There was a bluish line on the gums, which appeared