195 SCLERODERMA, MOLLUSCUM, LUPUS, ETC. intelligent. The other two children, a boy, set. 4, and a girl, set. 2, had enlarged gums and a slight cutaneous affection; the former had commencing enlargement of the middle finger of the right hand, and was sullen and stubborn, though apparently intelligent. The disease had commenced in all these cases a few months after birth. The eldest child of the family, a boy, set. 10, had had none of the symptoms shown by the others. The parents were first cousins, healthy, without any history of syphilis or scrofula. The writer thinks the causes may be found in the bad hygienic conditions in which the children were placed, together with the blood relationship of the parents. Sections of some of the tumours removed showed them to consist partly of connective tissue developed into fibrous tissues, and partly of cartilage. A plate is given of the elder child’s face and hand. Gf. Pollock gives (ib., 2^5) a report of a case of the same kind occurring in a widow, set. 33, who had been the subject of these growths from childhood. They occupied various positions; there were three large ones, and a hundred smaller ones of various sizes, in different parts of the body. The photograph accompanying the paper shows that the most remarkable and the largest commenced on the right side of the neck and extended below the umbilicus, in the shape of a long, thick, and broad pendulous flap of skin. Sections of portions snipped off showed excessive hypertrophy of the connective tissue, with abun- dant cell-growths occupying interspaces between the bands of fibrous tissue. The large mass was exhibited, and weighed two pounds three ounces. Cheloid. H. C. Juler, “A case of Cheloid simulating Molluscum Fibrosum ” (man, set. 43), ‘ Brit. Med Jo urn./ 1874, i, 510. Milton, “ Case of Chelis occurring on the supposed site of an injury,” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xix, 171. Lupus, fyc. Baumgarten (s Arch.f. Heilk.,’ xiv, 188) gives the following unusual cases of lupus erythematodes. A woman, 001. 30, never affected with syphilis, had noticed, six years before she was seen, a small spot (Bliithchen) an inch and a half in front of the left ear. Soon afterwards a similar one appeared behind the ear, and before long she noticed a small bad red spot on the scalp. There was no exudation (weeping) from any of them or from others which showed themselves in the course of the year on the scalp. The hair came off in quantities while the spots increased in size, till as they became confluent the whole’of the head became bald. Yeiel ( Arch. f. Derm.,’ v, 279) finds that Volkmann’s method of multiple scarification, while certainly tending to cure lupus, must, in the case of lupus erythematodes, be supplemented by the employment of a caustic (equal parts of chloride of zinc and alcohol). The points of scari- fication, after this treatment, suppurated superficially and became covered with scabs which fell off in from six to ten days, the process j?Tg ^\en repeated. He finds that from five to eight scarifications ° • ^1S moc^e treatment lead to complete recovery. ssig gives ( Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xv, 404) some pathological and histo-