PLASTIC st]RGERY OP THE NIPPLE. 2b 7 seat, tlie phenomena are much the same as those which are produced by applying a ligature to the same artery. The parts become cold and blanched; no pulsation can be detected beyond a certain point. If a collateral circulation become established the symptoms may pass away ; if not, the affected parts acquire a deadly coldness, an utter in- sensibility, a complete paralysis with a violet colour, or, perhaps, a mottled appearance of the skin. The gangrene is immediate. Decom- position soon sets in, and, if no line of demarcation is formed, septic- aemia will speedily occur and destroy the patient. (£ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1873.) Plastic surgery of the nipple.—In the ‘ Centralblatt fur die Medici- nischen ’Wissenchaften,’ April 12, 1873, Prof. P. A. Kehrer, of Giessen, describes an operation for the purpose of remedying imperfect development of the nipple. In some instances, he says, the surface of the nipple lies partly or entirely below the level of the areola, but may be rendered prominent by sucking. There is also another group of cases in which the nipples may be aptly described as mammillae circum- vallatce. In the centre of a depression, often from one fifth to two fifths of an inch deep, lies a small, very short, hard, pale nipple, which cannot be made to project even by the most powerful traction with suck- ing-glasses. The difficulty is increased by the swelling of theareola under mechanical irritation, and frequently by thenarrowness of the depression. This condition is remedied by a plastic operation, consisting in excision of the areola. An incision is made along the upper border of the areola, and meets a similar incision made along the lower border. The skin, with the pale muscular tissue, is then raised from the sub- jacent connective tissue so as to isolate the nipple on all sides, care being taken to avoid wounding the milk-ducts. The flaps are then cut away, a piece of skin about h to of an inch wide being left around the nipple; the bleeding is arrested by the application of cold sponges, and the edges of the wound are united by sutures. To prevent dragging, the skin is undermined by means of a sharp knife. The wound lies transversely, and is circular in the middle, corresponding to the nipple. The after-treatment is that ordinarily followed in wounds of the skin. After the healing of the wound the nipple lies at the level of the surrounding parts, or projects a little. By the frequent and continued application of sucking-glasses with a narrow opening during pregnancy, the nipple may be so far raised as to be rendered easy of access to the infant. Care, however, must be taken not to apply suction too forcibly, lest vesication or excoriation be produced. Dr. Kehrer had treated two persons in this way, both nipples bein°- operated on in each case. The first case was that of a non-pregnant woman, on whom, in her first childbirth, various attempts had been made, but without result, to make the nipples project. Before the operation the nipples could not be rendered visible even under powerful suction. Dr. Kehrer removed the areolse: heal- ing took place partly by the first intention, and the nipples pro- jected from -j3^ to of an inch above the surrounding parts By sucking-glasses they could be raised to a height of nearly £ of an inch In the second case, a pregnant woman was operated on six weeks before