245 DISLOCATIONS. the great trochanter was increased, and also from the vertebrae. Reduc- tion could not be accomplished at first. On a second attempt Prof. Busch’s formula was adopted. The thigh was abducted, rotated out- wards, carried to hyperextension, then rapidly rotated inwards and placed straight. The bone passed noiselessly into its place. The head was supposed to have been dislocated directly upwards, below and external to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and bounded in front and strapped down by the Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow. The symptoms differed from those usually met with. The power of im- mediate locomotion was remarkable, and was probably owing to the head being grasped and steadied by the Y ligament. Spontaneous dislocation of the femur.—Mr. Morrant Baker records the case of a child, set. 4 years old, who came under his care with dislocation of both femora upwards and backwards. The child had been able to walk and run till four months previously. There was no evidence of disease of the hip. The limb could be lengthened about an inch. It was found quite impossible to retain the bones in apposi- tion. A case under the care of Mr. Thomas Smith is quoted. A child, set. 9 years, had been the subject of dislocation of the hip for four years. It had come on “ spontaneously.” The child died of diphtheria, and at the post-mortem the ligamentum teres was found enormously lengthened and thickened, and tended to thrust the former out of the acetabulum. (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ x, 287.) Reduction of dislocation of the femur.—In the sixth number of the “ Upsala Proceedings,” P. Soderbaum reports a case of iliac luxation of the right femur, which he reduced after Prof. Westerton’s method without chloroform. “ The patient was laid on a low sofa having a wooden back, with his right leg to its far side; a strong farm servant placed one of his hands on the anterior superior spine of each ilium, and was ordered not to let these two points be disturbed from their position. The patient’s leg was then fixed almost at a right angle ; I placed my right knee in his popliteal space, with my right foot resting against the back of the sofa, and my right hand grasping the injured limb immediately above the ankle. I now raised myself slowly, but firmly, on my toe, when a loud scraping announced that the head of the bone wras moving. It then became possible to rotate the foot out- wards, so much that the toes pointed directly forwards, and the faulty position of the limb generally was improved. It was now supposed that the head of the bone lay on the brim of the acetabulum. Having again placed my right leg so that the entire sole of the foot rested against the back ol the sofa, I once more raised myself on my toe bringing my knee at the same time beyond the edge of the sofa. By this manoeuvre abduction was caused, during which, with a violent jerk, the head of the bone shot into the acetabulum, the position of the limb becoming quite natural, and the foot sinking down of its own accord on its outer side.” The patient was a man, set. 36, and the accident had occurred eight days before the reduction was effected. (“Report on Scandinavian Medicine,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ July, 1873.) Fracture of the neck of the femur.—A recent specimen of fracture of the neck of the femur was exhibited by Dr. Wharton to the Path. Soc.