ItEPOIlT ON PtBLIC HEALTH. 5ia the different effects produced by it when the temperature is high (25°-32° Cent.) or low (8°-ia° Cent.). In the former case the convulsions are well marked, in the latter case usually absent. Individual conditions also influence its action; pregnancy, for example, greatly heightens its effects. In respect of coal fumes and of coal gas, Hirt remarks that it is of importance to know that cases of chronic poisoning are not uncommon. Carbonic acid.—The effects of carbonic acid are given under several headings. The poisonous influence of large quantities of the pure gas is described as usual, but Hirt lays great stress on the modifying influence of constitution ; some persons are much more affected than others, and while in most cases heaviness in the head, vertigo, noises in the ears and sparks before the eyes, come on, in other cases there is no head affection, but in its place very uneasy respiration, often com- bined with pain in the chest. Convulsions are also variable in their intensity and presence. In all cases, however, sooner or later, loss of consciousness and of power of movement comes on. With regard to chronic carbonic acid poisoning, that is, to the effect of the constant inhalation of small quantities insufficient to produce the toxic effects of the larger doses, Hirt concludes that there is not the least evidence in favour of any such chronic intoxication. He does not refer to any cardiac symptoms, nor does he seem to be aware of A. Smith’s experi- ments. The effect of carbonic acid when mixed with other gases or with vapours, as in some trades, is another matter. Hirt remarks, in the first place, that it is a known matter of fact that, independent of any special trade, health suffers wheu a great number of workmen are employed in a small space. The effects appear to be attributed by him to increase of carbonic acid from its normal ’4 volume per xooo to from 7'8 and 12 per 1000. Apart from these cases the trades in which carbonic acid is evolved are those in which organic substances are fermented, or in which carbonic acid is evolved from mineral matters. In the first category are beer-brewing, wine-making, distilling, and yeast-making, in all of which trades considerable quantities of carbonic acid are evolved. In none of these trades has Hirt been able to trace injurious effects, except the acute poisoning. He describes fully the effects of the carbonic acid evolved in the compressed yeast manu- factory at Neisse, in Silesia, where an immense amount of carbonic acid is given off; the precise quantity has not been determined, but at the ground level it is supposed that it reaches 10 per cent. In this manufactory acute carbonic acid poisoning sometimes occurs, but no chronic effects, or any influence otherwise on health,_ are perceptible. In part this may be attributable to the excellence of the ventilation. Nor in the various processes of wine- or beer-making are injurious effects produced by the carbonic acid, though some other parts of the process (the cellar-work, especially, where, however, the atmospheric oxygen is lessened) may be hurtful. flirt's experience is therefore negative, but it must be observed that, as lie several times notices, the ventilation of all these manufactories is good, and it therefore is really not clear from his work what is the precise percentage of carbonic acid which the men breathe. All his