305 ABSCESSES IN BONE, ETC. the treatment of gonorrhoeal orchitis, enlargement of glands, and iudo- lent/ ulcers Abscess in the bursa under the tendon of the iliacus internus muscle. —A man, net. 28, was admitted into King’s College Hospital for disease about the left hip. There was a sinus in front of the upper part of the thigh, external to the femoral artery, and a probe could be passed along it for a distance of six inches upwards and slightly backwards, beneath the tendon of the iliacus muscle, touching bare bone posteriorly at the pelvic brim on its way to the venter of the ilium. The limb could not be straightened owing to a well-marked increase of tension of the combined psoas and iliacus tendons. The sinus was dilated and the finger passed in. A counter-opening was then made and a drainage tube inserted. Mr. Wood regarded the case as originally one of inflammation and suppuration of the bursa beneath the iliacus over the brim of the pelvis, leading on to inflammation of the adjoining periosteum and slight superficial necrosis. The pus makes its way along the tendon to the lesser trochanter and then backwards to the lower margin of the gluteus and forwards to the front of the thigh. The joint was movable and free from grating. (‘Lancet,’ Aprils, 1873.) Treatment of cases of necrosed bone.—Mr. H. G. Howse insists on the importance of cutting away the case of new bone freely in operat- ing for the removal of sequestra. He also scrapes away the granulations lining the cavity. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 11, 1874.) Abscess of the tibia.—Mr. Savory gives a clinical lecture on the case of a man, aet. 21, who had been liable for four years to attacks of pain and swelling in the upper part of the left leg. When he came under care, there was intense aching pain in the tibia, which was enlarged at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, and the skin over the swell- ing was discoloured and there was tenderness on pressure. An incision ■was made through the skin and thickened periosteum and with a small saw through the bone. Pus then welled up and a trephine opening was made. About six to eight drachms of pus were then evacuated. The man recovered well. Mr. Savory says that the trephine has been known to go beside an abscess. He thinks that a straight incision with a small saw is more convenient for revealing the presence of pus and then the trephine can be used. (‘ Lancet,’ June 6, 1874.) A very similar case was brought under the notice of the Hunterian Society by the present compiler. A lad, set. 19, was admitted into the London Hospital, Sept. 3rd, 1874, with enlargement of the upper part of the left tibia and with the history of attacks of pain and swelling for four years previously. The skin over the swelling was reddened and pitted on pressure. A few days after admission effusion took place into the knee-joint. An incision was made down to the bone through quite healthy periosteum. A trephine was applied, and healthy bone cut through, till at last an abscess cavity was opened containing about half a teaspoonful or more of pus. The cavity extended some distance above and below and would have contained several drachms of fluid. The lad recovered well. Wounds and injuries of the chest.—Elaborate statistics of cases of wounds and injuries of the chest are given in the Surgeon-General’s 20