487 APOMORPHINE. bodies by dilute acids or by boiling. He finds it of great service in typhoid fever in doses of four grains. Its local application m solution to the nostrils cures hay fever. Dubone considers quinine to resemble ergot m its oxytoxic action. Schultze1 finds that quinine hinders that formation ot acid m blood which is due to oxidation taking place within it both before and after coagulation. This seems to show that quinine has a direct influence on tissue change apart from any action which it may produce through the nervous system. Binz considers that the effect of quinine in lower- ing the temperature is chiefly due rather to its action on the tissues and fluids than on the nervous system. He has repeated the experi- ments of Naunyn and Quincke, and finds, like them, that the elevation of temperature which they observed after pinching the spinal cord in dogs may be prevented by quinine. In order to get this result the quinine ought to be given in solution, and the best form is the hydro- chlorate. Monteverdi3 considers that quinine stimulates the sympathetic nerves and thus causes contraction of the uterus, bladder, intestines, and blood-vessels. The gravid uterus is most easily affected and quinine ought therefore to be given cautiously to pregnant women. It may be used at any stage of labour instead of ergot, and is less apt than it to injure either mother or child, is more certain in its action and produces pains of a normal character. It is useful also in cases of retained placenta, in haemorrhage during pregnancy, in amenorrhoea due to torpid conditions of the uterus, in puerperal fever, hysteria, and hysteralgia. In small doses it increases the frequency and force of the pulse, but large doses depress the circulation. The author thinks, like Gubler, that morphia is to some extent antagonistic to quinine, and that they may be used as antidotes to each other in cases of poisoning. Syoscyamine.—Dr. Oulmont3 has investigated the actions of hyo- scyamine in nervous affections, tetanus, and mercurial tremors, being led thereto by the uncertainty of the effects of hyoscyamus itself. He summarises his conclusions thus: (i) Hyoscyamine contains all the active part of hyoscyamus, and acts with greater certainty than the plant itself. (2) It must be used at first in small doses of ^ grain daily, which may be increased £ to 1 grain. (3) Its use may be persevered in in spite of slight symptoms of intoxication, such as dryness of the fauces, and dilation of the pupils ; and its use need only be suspended when severer symptoms appear, which are, however, only transitory. (4) It is especially useful as an anodyne and in neuralgia. (5) It acts favorably in neuroses; it cures obstinate cases of mercurial tremor ; and it is beneficial in senile palsy and paralysis agitans. (6) It is of decided use in locomotor ataxy. (7) In traumatic tetanus an amelioration may be expected from it when injected beneath the skin to the extent of £ to 1 grain per day. Apomorphine.—Dr. Bronmidler1 strongly recommends apomorphine 1 ‘Neu. Rep. Pham.,’ xx, p. 539. 2 ‘La NuavaLiguria Medica and New Remedies Act/ 1871, n. 01 3 ‘ Bull, de Ther.,’ lxxxiii, p. 481. 4 ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb./ clxi, p. 122.