REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 28 . Ananoff1 found that of Two rabbits poisoned with strychnia, convul- sions could be staved oft for nearly half an hour in one that was made to breathe oxygen gas, whilst the other which breathed ordinary air had convulsions in three minutes and died in seven. See also Buchner.2 Schiff 3 has discovered the interesting fact that atropine administered in small doses destroys all relation between the pressure of the blood and the rhythm of the cardiac pulsations. He has taken advantage of this fact to determine the presence or absence of accelerating nerves for tbe heart in the spinal cord. He believes the real accelera- tors of the heart to be fibres arising in common with the roots of the spinal accessory nerves which unite with the vagus at the base of the cranium, but (in the dog) separate before this nerve is continued from its second ganglion, and thence pass by the side of the carotid to the cardiac plexus. He finds that the spinal cord contains no accelerative fibres, for on placing an animal under the influence of woorara and dividing the medulla oblongata above, and the medulla spinalis below the emergence of the accelerating fibres, the effect observed was the nearly total abolition of the influence of the cord on the vessels of the lower parts of the body; further, on dividing the vagi and sympa- thetic nerves, the latter both in the neck and in the thorax, he found that irritation of the spinal cord did not produce any elevation of the pi’essure of the blood nor any increase in the number of pulsations, although the connections of the spinal cord with the heart were by this means perfectly preserved. Dittmar, 4 in a paper on the vaso-motor and respiratory centres, cor- roborates the previous statements of Owsjannikow, whose method of experiment—namely, by making sections through the medulla oblongata —he has improved. Hittmar found (in rabbits) that the inferior limit of the vaso-motor centre was at a plane about three millimetres above the point of the calamus scriptorius. The upper limit was at about the upper border of tbe corpus trapezoides. This region corresponds to the place of origin of the nervi faciales. In Dittmar’s experiments the blood-pressure was determined by the kymographion, and its rise after irritation of the sciatic nerve constituted a measure as to the extent to which the vaso-motor reflex centre had been eliminated by the section made. Sections showed that the sensory nerves, at least of the sciatic nerve (the irritation of which caused a rise of the blood- pressure), as well as the vaso-motor nerves themselves, ran in the lateral columns. Moreover, the centre on both sides lies in that part of the medulla oblongata which corresponds to. tbe lateral column of the spinal cord, more particularly, however, in the anterior part of the same. Microscopic investigation showed this region to have a grey nucleus containing large multipolar ganglion-cells, which has been 1 ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1874, p. 4x7. “Ueber die Wirkung von Sauerstoffgas auf die erhote Reflexerregbarkeit.” . , , _ 2 ‘ Zeitschriffc fur Eiologie,’ 1874, P- 373- “Zur Nervenreaung durcli Losungen jndifferenten Substanzen.” 3 ‘ De l’Inflammation et de la Circulation, Pamphlet, 1873’ * ‘Centralblatt,’ No. 16, 1874,