484 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDIC A AND THERAPEUTICS. Guttifera.—Ilildwein1 also reports on a new remedy from the gutti- ferous order of plants, Garcinia mangostoma, which grows in Madras and the Philippines. Gruppe prepares an extract of the fruit rind, and a decoction of the rind is also used. Both are stated to be safe, rapid, and efficient remedies for dysentery, chronic diarrhoea, and catarrhal diseases of the bladder and urethra. Metals. Arsenic.—A. P. Fokker,2 of Goes, Netherlands, shows by his experi- ments that the administration of arsenic diminishes the excretion of urea and causes increase in the weight of the body, these changes being due to diminution of tissue degradation. Calomel.—Prof. Bellini3 discusses this substance in an elaborate man- ner. The object of his essay being the possible change, either partial or complete, ot calomel into corrosive sublimate within the living body of either man or of the inferior animals, he subdivides his matter under two heads : (a) Of the changes undergone by calomel taken into the system by the mouth. (b) Of the changes that may be produced in it when applied ex- ternally to either diseased or healthy surfaces, or introduced hypoder- mically. Having stated as the fact earliest known (a.d. 1763) that a noxious com'pound resulted from the union of calomel with an ammoniacal salt, he adverts next to the opinion which was advanced after a few years, that in the presence of salts, which would not be termed alkaline chlorides, calomel was liable to be changed into corrosive sublimate. Many years later this appeared to be confirmed by the experience and authority of Petenkoffer. Later still, Mialhe having in his experi- ments ascertained that the quantity of corrosive sublimate produced was not proportionate to that of the calomel employed, but had a direct relation to that of the alkaline chlorides present, and also of the air or gases with which the mixture might be in contact, arrived at the conclusion that calomel owed all its medical virtue to its trans- formation into corrosive sublimate within the alimentary canal. From this conclusion Prof. Bellini dissents, as he also does from that of Bouchardat, according to which the change in the calomel is pro- duced in the small intestines by the agency of alkaline carbonates existing in the enteric juices. Bellini, by experiments which he details, found that calomel was not only altered as previously observed, by or in the presence of alkaline carbonates, but also by the free acids of the gastric juice, especially by the lactic, and that this was sensibly influenced by the conditions of fasting and repletion. He also found that, although a soluble compound of mercury was produced, it yet differed from corrosive sublimate in not coagulating albumen, and not being precipitable by the alkaline carbonates. Analogous results were obtained in experiments on mixtures of calomel with protein and other alimentary substances in circumstances of temperature as nearly 1 ‘ Ztschr. Allgm. Oestrcli. Apot.-Ver/ xi; p. 249; ‘ Lond. Med. Ree./ i, p. S 71 - 2 1 Nederl. Tijdschr./ 1872, Sep. A, quoted in ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ clviii, p-_ 14- Reviewed in ‘Dub. Journ. of Med. Sci./ i873> Oct.; ‘Lond. Med. Rec./ i, p. 700.