ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. whilst acids oppose it. Paschutin1 2 has made a series of researches on the fermentative operations of the intestinal mucous membranes. He obtained the fluids partly by Thiry’s method, partly by infusion of the membranes. He finds that infusion of the small intestines is capable of converting starch paste into sugar ill the course of a few hours, but acid fermentation then sets in, and the quantity of sugar formed dimi- nishes. Haw starch is converted very slowly into sugar by the infusion, and at 3 2° F. the action ceases altogether. It is necessary that a cer- tain proportion should exist between the starch paste and the fluid, as if the former is in great excess no action is observed to take place. Experiments with saliva showed that its activity continued unaltered up to 130° F., it then began to diminish slowly to a temperature of about 1450 F., and then rapidly till at 148° F. it almost ceased unless the action was continued for some time. It entirely ceased at a tempera- ture of 163° F. Previous exposure to warmth diminished the activity of the saliva in proportion to the duration of such exposure. Saliva fre- quently filtered and preserved under mercury for six months still retained its activity. The saccharifying ferment of the small intestine completely loses its activity at a temperature of 148° F. Infusion of pancreas behaves like undiluted saliva. The whole length of the small intestine in dogs, rabbits, pigs, and other animals, secretes two ferments, one which converts starch into sugar, the other which converts cane sugar into grape sugar. He has been able to separate the two ferments from one another; the ferment converting cane into grape sugar is absent in sheep and calves. M. Pettenkofer and C. Voit 3 show that a large quantity of starch can be converted into grape sugar and absorbed in the ali- mentary canal of the dog, every 2-2 lbs. of the body weight being capable of absorbing 230 grains of starch, which is more even than a fat ox will take up. The absorbed sugar splits up completely into car- bonic acid gas and water. These experiments seem to demonstrate clearly, first, that fat can be formed from the metamorphosis of carbohydrates in the body, to which, indeed, many other facts seem to point; and secondly, that it proceeds from the disintegration of the albuminous com- pounds, 100 parts of meat yielding 11*22 parts of fat. "Weiske and Wildt3 have made experiments to demonstrate that fat can be formed in the economy, not only, as Yoit and Pettenkofer have shown, from albuminous compounds, but also from the carbohydrates. See also J. Forster,4 Gr. Bunge,5 John Kurtz,6 and Czerny and Latschenberg.7 1 ‘ Arcliiv f. Anatomie und Physiologic,’ 1871, p. 505. 2 ‘ Zeitscliiffc £. Biologie,’ 1873, B. ix, p. 435-540; “Ueber die Zersetsungs-vor- gange im Thierkbrper bei Fattening mit Fleiscb und Kolilehydraten und Kohlehy- draten alleiu.” ‘ Zeitschrift f. Biologie,’ 1874, B. x, p. 1-20. 4 “ Versucbe tiber die Bedeutung der Aschenbestandtlieile in der Nahrung,” ‘ Zeitschrift f. Biologie,’ B. ix, p. 297. “ Etlinologischer Naclitrag zur Abhandlung uber die Bedeutung des Kochsalz, &c.,” ‘ Zeits. f. Biologie,’ 1874, B. x, p. m. ® “Ueber Entziehung von Alkalien aus dem Tliierkorper,” abstract of Inaug. Dissert, in ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1874, p. 569. ' ‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ B, lix, page x6i, and translation in‘London Med. Record’ 1874, p. 145.