516 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. whem workers in india rubber may be injured by the inhalation of iumes oi bisulphide of carbon. The effects of the vapours evolved in the making of various tar products and in other trades have been also carefully studied by Iiirt Cysticerci. An anonymous writer1 has recently placed before the British medical profession the researches of Pellizzari, Tommasi2 Perroncito, Lewis,3 and Giacomini* upon cysticerci, and has collated them with the conclusions of Dr. Cobbold. The experiments of Pellizzari and Tommasi were made jointly with the view of determining the temperature necessary for the destruction of cysticerci in measled meat. According to Perroncito, measly meat requires a higher temperature than boiling water for the destruction of the bladder-worms in question. He even stated that siices of measly meat after being fried in a vessel containing fat at a tempera- ture of 3470 to 4000 Fahr. were not destroyed. Perroncito arrived at the startling conclusion that the melted fat alone of measled pigs should be utilised; that it is not certain that the cysticerci die at 176° to 2120 Fahr.; but that we are quite sure that they dry up and become completely mummified at 257° to 302° Fahr. Pellizzari found, on the contrary, that cysticerci die at a temperature of only 140° Fahr. Giacomini appears to be ignorant of this refutation of Perroncito’s conclusions, and reiterates them. Dr. Lewis, who experimented upon both beef and pork, states as the result of his investigation—“ (1) That exposure to a temperature of 1200 Fahr.- for five minutes will not destroy life in cysticerci, but that they may continue to manifest indications of life for at least two or three days after such exposure. (2) That exposure to a temperature of 1250 Fahr. for five minutes does not kill them; but (3) after being subjected to a temperature of 130° Fahr. for five minutes they may be considered to have perished. After exposure to this and higher temperatures in no instance have I been able to satisfy myself that the slightest movements took place in their substance when examined, even under a high power. At l'east it may be confidently asserted that, after exposure for five minutes to a temperature of 1350 to 140° Fahr., life in these parasites may be considered as absolutely extinct.” It thus appears from the careful and concurrent experiments of both Pellizzari and Lewis that cysticerci of all kinds, whether found in beef, veal, or pork, cannot retain their vitality when exposed to a temperature of 140° Fahr. Pellizzari then inquires how it is that, notwithstanding so low a temperature suffices to kill the parasites, yet cases of tapeworm are continually occurring. He adduces some interesting data by Marchi, who had stated that of thirty-five taenia, which he had examined only one was Tcenia solium, all the other thirty-four being the unarmed 1 ‘Loud. Med. Rec.,’ 1874, pp. 641, 690, 741. 2 ‘ Append. Parasiti In. td. Anim. Domest. Trad. d. Ingl. (Cobbold) T. Tommasi.’ Firenze, 1874. 3 * Rep. on the Bladder-Worms found in Beef and Pork. Calcutta, 1872 (Blue Book). 4 ‘ Cyst. Cell. Horn.’ C. Giacomini. Torino, 1874. By P. R. Lewis, M.B.