222 REPORT ON SURGERY. Traumatic aneurism of the femoral; digital compression for ninety minutes; cure.—A man, aged 78, came under the care of Mr. Darke for an aneurism the size of an orange six inches below Poupart’s ligament. It had followed a kick from a horse a month previously. Digital com- pression for an hour made the tumour harder and less pulsating and in another half hour pulsation entirely ceased. (‘Lancet,’ April 28, 874.) Aneurism of femoral artery; instrumental and digital compression ; recovery.—Mr. A. B. R. Myers had charge of the case and figures the instrument employed. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ March 29, 1873.) Femoral aneurism of large size treated by pressure under chloro: form, maintained for fifty-two consecutive hours.—Mr. Holt records the case. The pressure was applied to the external and common iliacs alternately. The tumour filled Scarpa’s triangle. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vii, p. 56.) Inguinal and femoral aneurism.—In his Lectures, .Tune, 1874 (‘ Lan- cet,’ Aug. 29 and Oct. 17, 1874), Mr. Holmes discusses inguinal and femoral aneurism. He describes specimens showing various forms of aneurism, and points out that ligature of the external iliac for ilio- femoral aneurism is often rather Anel’s than Hunter’s operation, for there is frequently no branch given off between the aneurism and the part of the vessel ligatured. On the other hand, when the aneurism is clearly femoral, the ligature sometimes fails owing to the large branches given off between the ligature and the aneurism. Ligature of the external iliac is shown by statistics to be successful in about three out of four cases. "When performed for haemorrhage the success of the operation has been greater. Interesting cases are related in which aneurismal symptoms recurred after ligature, probably owing to the collateral circulation through the profunda. “ In the Hunterian opera- tion on the iliac artery we have an efficient, easy, and successful method of treatment, but one which exposes the patient to very grave dangers (roughly estimated, by a death-rate of about a quarter), which is occasionally followed by the loss of the limb from gangrene, even when the patient escapes with his life, and which in exceedingly rare eases may fail to cure the disease.” When the disease admits of ligature of the superficial femoral the treatment is, of course, less dangerous. Ligature of the femoral just below Poupart’s ligament Mr. Holmes thinks not in itself by any means so fatal as has been represented, and that no just cause whatever has been shown for banishing it from surgical practice. When the disease extends so high as to preclude ligature of the superficial femoral, he would himself be in favour of the operation on the external iliac under ordinary circumstances, and reserve that on the common femoral for cases where the belly is ex- tremely fat and the higher operation unusually dangerous. The chief objection to the ligature of the common femoral would appear to be uncertainty in the origin of the profunda. Flexion of thigh he thinks of little value ; one successful case is noted. The influence of digital compression is shown by a case in which cure resulted in four hours—really m two hours und another m which cure followed though there was most extensive arterial disease. A consideiation of