REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 464 the poison on the medulla oblongata are permanent. Mr. Richards's experiments would appear to indicate that they are not, unless the quantity of poison injected be overwhelming. Detection of Poisons. Free Mineral Acids.—M. Rabuteau1 has made an important modifi- cation of a method devised by Tardieu and Roussin for the detection and estimation of the amount of free mineral acids in medico-legal analyses. Tardieu and Roussin’s process, which is applicable in cases of sulphuric or nitric acid' poisoning, consists in neutralisation with quinine, evaporation on the water bath, extraction of the residue with alcohol, and separation of the acid from its combination with quinine by well-known means. This method is, however, inapplicable for the detection of hydrochloric acid, since commercial alcohol dissolves sodium chloride to some extent. Rabuteau obviates this difficulty by using amyl-alcohol instead of ordinary ethyl-alcohol. Amyl-alcohol dissolves the salts which quinine forms with organic and inorganic acids, but leaves the alkaline chlorides undissolved. When it is known that hydrochloric acid is present, benzol may be substituted for amyl- alcohol in the extraction of the residue left by evaporation. Er. Mohr 2 has devised two methods of detecting the presence of a free mineral acid in medico-legal research, and in such liquids as vinegar, &c. The first method consists in the addition of water to pure ferric acetate until the solution is of a pale yellow colour, which is not altered in tint by the subsequent addition of a few drops of potassium sulph- ocyanide. The addition of a trace of a solution containing a mineral acid (sulphuric, nitric, or hydrochloric) immediately brings out the deep red colour of ferric sulphocyanide. Oxalic acid reacts in a similar manner. Phosphoric acid at first produces a precipitate, but even when the precipitate is redissolved by an excess of the acid the red colour is not produced. Acetic, tartaric, and citric acids do not give this colour reaction. Mohr’s second method is still more delicate. Potassium iodide is mixed with starch-paste and a highly diluted solution of ferric acetate. If no free mineral acid be present, no blue colour is produced. If a drop of a solution of a mineral acid (especially hydrochloric) be added, blue streaks appear in the solution, and in a short time the whole of the mixture acquires a blue colouration from the presence of starch- iodide. Citric and tartaric acids do not give the colour reaction. Since all sulphates, except those of the alkaloids, are insoluble in alcohol, Mohr advises, for the detection of sulphuric acid, that the solution be evaporated nearly to dryness, and extracted with strong alcohol, on filtering and distilling off the alcohol, a reaction of the solution for a sulphate with a barium salt is conclusive as to the pre- sence of free sulphuric acid. Phospo-molybdic acid as a reagent for the separation of the al/caloids 1 ‘ Gaz. de Paris,’ 1874, p. ii 8. 2 ‘ Neu. Rep. Pliarm.,’ xxiii, p. 257; * Zeitsclir. f. Analyt. Chem.,’ xui, p. 321.