OPHTHALMIA IN PAUPER SCHOOLS. 357 blade onward in the plane of the iris and immediately behind it. lie then introduces the scissors, one blade passing through the incision in the iris, the other into the anterior chamber. By simple closure ol the blades an incision is made through the iris from one extremity ot the ■wound to a point beyond the natural position of the pupil.. A second incision, from the other extremity of the wound, is made in the same manner, to meet the first at an angle ; and hence the knife cut and the two scissor cuts include and detach a large triangular piece of iris, which may then be withdrawn by forceps, and to which capsular masses and effused lymph will generally be adherent. In some cases, when the iris retains any natural contractility, it may be sufficient to make only one cut with the scissors, and this may gape sufficiently to allow of useful vision. The author prefaces his paper by an historical retro- spect of all proposals of a similar kind; and enters fully into details with regard to the various conditions which may demand or may contra- indicate the operations which he describes. The same author1 advocates a new and simple method, of bringing forward the internal rectus muscle in cases of insufficiency, or in cases of divergent squint. He divides the conjunctiva on the inner side, close to the corneal margin, to the extent of ten or twelve millimetres, and detaches it from the subjacent textures nearly to the caruncle. He then passes a squint hook under the in- ternal rectus tendon and severs it completely from its attachment to the sclerotic. Through the tendon thus severed, and through the conjunctiva, as far back as may be needed, and on the horizontal meridian, he passes from within outwards a needle carrying a double ligature, which has another needle on each end. One of the latter needles is then carried through the conjunctiva from within outwards, over the attachment of the superior rectus, the other over the attach- ment of the inferior. The needles are cut off, the two ligatures tightened simultaneously, and firmly tied. A compressive bandage is applied, and the stitches are removed in from forty-eight hours to four days. The very important question of the nature of the ophthalmia which has prevailed in pauper schools in the metropolis, of the causes to which it has been attributable, and of the character and extent of the lesions which it has produced, has been investigated with extraordinary care by Mr. Nettleship, whose results, which have been printed in a Report addressed to the Local Government Board, are such as to - justify their reproduction in a form accessible to the profession generally. Mr. Nettleship’s examinations were made between the 12th of August and the 24th of September, 1874; and the materials col- lected furnished data for ascertaining with more or less completeness the following chief points : A. The present condition of the schools collectively as to ophthalmia ; which for convenience is called the “ophthalmic state." It is prefaced by . a short statement of the chief features of the disease, and by q, definition of the word “ ophthalmia ” as used in the Report. B. The ophthalmic state of each of the schools. 1 ‘ Annfdes cl’ Oculist ique,’ 1873.