101 ALCOHOLISM—SYPHILIS. iSvi, 247. Decaisne, “ Sur l’usagc du Vermouth dans la consommation,” ‘Compt. Rend./ lxxvi, 669. J. Ross, “ On the Action of Alcohol/ ‘ Brit. Med. Jouin., 1873, ii jo; F E. Anstie, “ Remarks on certain recent papers on the Action ot Alcohol, < Practitioner ’ 1873, 339. A. H. M'Clintock, “Remarks on the Semeiology of lv. 339- F I _,lo Lisl«, “Treatment of Delirium Tremens and allied diseases by large doses of Digitalis, Med. Times and Gaz ’ 1873 ii, 321. Martyn, “Delirium Tremens, a violent attack rapidly subdued by Chloral' aided by Chloroform,” ib. ib., 325. Chenery, “ Tincture of Digitalis and Chloral-hydrate in Delirium Tremens,” ‘Bost. Med. Surg. Journ., lxxxix, 377. J. Russell, “ Remarks on Alcoholism from a Clinical Point of View, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ./ 1874, ii, 607. H. Sutherland, “Alcoholism in Private Practice,” ib. ib., 610. Syphilis, Lancereaux (£ Gaz. Med.,’ 1873, 363) recognises two pathological forms of disease which the liver undergoes in syphilis,—viz. diffused syphilitic hepatitis, analogous to cirrhosis, and circumscribed or gummy hepatitis. In the first case there is increased growth, followed by con- traction of the connective tissue of the walls of the capillaries, as well as that of the organ generally, while the microscope reveals atrophy and fatty change of the connective-tissue-cells, amyloid degeneration of the capillary walls, and either atrophy or increase of size with multi- plied oil-cells of the liver-cells. In the case of gummy hepatitis the nodules are found to have a whitish-yellow central and a grey fibrous- looking peripheral appearance. The paper contains remarks as to the differential diagnosis of the disease from ordinary cirrhosis, “ tubercle,” cancer, &c., of the liver, mainly resting on the history of the case; descriptions of the symptoms, gathered especially from the writer’s own experience ; and advice as to treatment, essentially a mercurial one. The same author (‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ xxii, 42) writes on the syphi- litic affections of the circulatory organs. The valves of the heart are generally uninjured, while there may he a circumscribed or diffuse form of myocarditis. A syphilitic form of arteritis attacks by preference the carotids and cerebral arteries, showing itself in thickening of their walls and narrowing of their calibre, with, in many instances, formation of aneurisms. In these cases he expects benefit from the use of iodide of potassium. In another paper (‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1873, 306) he discusses syphilitic meningitis and encephalitis, finding, as in the above, diffuse and circumscribed forms of both. There is scarcely anything new, either in the symptoms noticed or the descriptions given. A. Weil (‘Centralbl.,’ 1874, 177) states that, in opposition to what is generally observed, he has been able, by percussion and palpation, to make out extensive enlargement of the spleen in three cases during the existence of the primary induration. Two of the patients were admitted into hospital soon after infection, and from three to four weeks before the first appearance of the exanthem ; the third case had presented syphilitic maculse for four weeks. The enlargement of the spleen was very marked on admission in all three, and under anti- syphilitic treatment completely disappeared in from five to ten weeks. In the absence of any other cause he refers the symptoms to syphilis, / (» 1 LIBRARY