102 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. and. considers it to be due to hyperiemia and increase of tbe cells of the pulp, consequent, as in intermittent fever and the acute exanthe- mata, on general blood-poisoning. J. Eisenschiitz (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1873, No. 48) finds enlarge- ment of the spleen to be a marked symptom, among others, of latent syphilis in children, the maximum period of latency being from the first six to twelve weeks of life. J. Hutchinson prints (£Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ lvi, 189) a second report on the communication of syphilis in the practice of vaccination. He gives a third and fourth series, each consisting of one case. The third is that of a married and respectable man, jet. 46, who came under the writer’s care with acute iritis. He presented a copious dusky rash and symmetrical ulcers on the tonsils. A former syphilis was denied, nor were sores found on the genitals. On one arm were open ulcers as large as shillings, covered with scabs, and with dusky indurated borders. There was an indolent swelling in his armpit. He had been vaccinated three months before, being in perfect health, and the punc- tures went on favourably till the fourth week, when they became again inflamed and ulcerated. About a fortnight later the eruption appeared, and at the end of another month the iritis. About a dozen other per- sons vaccinated from the same child showed no peculiar symptoms. The child itself was the third and only living one, and the only syphi- litic sign it presented was the broad and sunken bridge of its nose. The fourth case is that of a lady, jet. 46, who consulted the writer about a urethral growth ; she also presented the stains of a syphilitic rash, which she stated to have broken out about eight weeks after vac- cination, one of the punctures, as in the third case, having become inflamed again about the fourth week. The eruption was followed later by iritis. Her two daughters, vaccinated at the same time from the same child, were never affected. The child had had syphilitic con- dylomata, snuffles, and a slight skin rash at the time of dentition. After stating these cases, the writer arranges his remarks on the four series under separate headings. He thinks we must believe that the specific poison of syphilis is either not contained in the vaccine lymph at all or is not equally diffused through it: and he holds that the most probable explanation of this is the supposition that it is necessary to convey some of the cell-elements of the blood in order to convey syphilis and this may be done without making the vesicle bleed. The course of events is as follows: if the syphilitic virus and the vaccine virus he implanted at one and the same time, and the patient be sus- ceptible of vaccination, the vesicle may pass through all its stages in the most characteristic manner; then, after the healing of the vaccina- tion-sore and at the end of about a month from the inoculation, the svphilitic virus begins to show its effects, and the scar becomes irri- table inflames, and indurates. In some exceptional cases the vaccina- tion-sore never heals, and the pus-scab somewhat conceals the specific changes which subsequently occur. The vaccination-chancre begins as a little red, firm, glossy tubercle, which gradually increases in size and becomes harder. At the end of a fortnight, or earlier, it usually ulcerates and presents a sore remarkable for its small amount of secre-