311 AFFECTIONS OF THE LA11YNX, ETC. counter-openings in cases where empyema has discharged anteriorly. He discusses the anatomy of the parts and the proper place to punc- ture. Between the fifth and sixth, or sixth and seventh ribs he prefers. Cherry-stone in right bronchus ; tracheotomy ; removal of foreign body; death from broncho-'pneumonia.—The patient was a girl, aet. 3. Mr. J. Cooper Forster. (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xix, 25.) Foreign body impacted in the right bronchus ; tracheotomy ; no foreign body removed/ recovery.—Mr. Barwell records a case. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 120.) Foreign body in the larynx ; tracheotomy ; recovery.—A]child ost. 8 was admitted under the care of Mr. Holden with the history that she had swallowed or inhaled a piece of wood. It could not be detected by any test, but was supposed to be in the larynx or just below. There was some difficulty of breathing. As this did not improve tracheotomy was performed. No attempt at removal of the foreign body was made, as it was hoped it might be coughed up. This did happen, but the child swallowed it. Twenty-eight hours later it was found in a motion. The child recovered well. (‘Lancet,’ March 14, 1874-) Tracheotomy in membrmous croup and in diphtheria.—Dr. J. G\ Ehrhardt records four cases of croup in which he performed tracheotomy. Two of the patients recovered. The first was a boy aged four years and two months. The tube had to be worn for fourteen days before respira- tion could be accomplished through the larynx, and an exacerbation occurred two days after the wound had closed, but was only of short duration. The other was a boy aged five. The tube was removed on the eleventh day. In the first case, artificial respiration had to be kept up for some time after the operation, as the child was apparently dead. The author strongly recommends the hard-rubber canula in preference to silver. He hooked the trachea forwards. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1873. Tracheotomy in croup.—Dr. Buchanan mentions that he has operated more than forty times and saved over one third of the patients. (Address, Clinical Surgery, Glasgow, 1874.) Abscess of the larynx simulating croup.—Dr. Stephenson writes on this subject. 1. The affection is more gradual in its onset and does not endanger life so rapidly as croup. 2. Difficulty in swallowing is in most cases a prominent symptom, and any attempt at deglutition at once induces a paroxysm of dyspnoea. 3. In abscess, change of posture, and espe- cially the horizontal position, aggravates the dyspnoea, and, like the act of deglutition, is apt to induce a paroxysm of suffocation. 4. The cough is low and hoarse and has not the clanging, brassy sound of the early stage of croup. These characters taken together with the history of the case should be sufficient to place one on one’s guard for the existence of extra-laryngeal disease. "Whilst retro-pharyngeal abscess has obtained distinct place in literature, abscess of the connective tissue in more immediate relation to the larynx is unnoticted by English writers The author narrates three cases and alludes to six others. In the first, the child died without any operative treatment. In the second, an incision was made and pus let out, but the child sank. In the third, at the end of the second week an incision let out pus. The child recovered. In