WOUNDS. 4-69 she does die according to his wish. Dr. Bucknill thinks this would be carrying murder into the abstract. In reference to the administration of anaesthetics, Mr. Stephen sup- poses that a bona-fide operation upon a man when he was insensible, which caused his death, if done for the best, would not be a criminal act; but if the man were conscious and sensible, and he refused to submit to an operation, and notwithstanding this the operation were performed and he dies, and the jury is of opinion that the operation is a beneficial one, Mr. Stephen could not say whether this would be man- slaughter or not. Would it be a trespass to tie an artery, or to operate for strangulated hernia—which Dr. Bucknill has done under chloroform —notwithstanding the vehement refusal of the patient, who was not of sound mind ? The author relates another case. A man bought arsenic, as he sup- posed, and swallowed it, with suicidal intent, telling his wife what he had done. Medical aid was procured, and the supposed arsenic was forcibly removed by the stomach-pump ; but the man died. The druggist, suspecting the intention of his customer, had given him gyp- sum instead of arsenic, and death had been caused by injury to the stomach produced by the tube of the pump. Was the surgeon guilty of criminal homicide, or could the representatives of the dead man maintain an action for trespass ? The question is not easily answered. The question of infanticide, as discussed before the Committee, may be divided into two parts: the period at which an infant, being born or newly born, becomes a person, and taking its life becomes infanticide ; and, the condition as to soundness or unsoundness of the mind of a parturient woman. The Bill which Mr. Stephen laid before the Com- mittee dealt only with the first of these considerations. The continued connection with the body of the mother by means of the umbilical cord is a most important point. Of this Justice Blackburn, who, with Baron Bramwell, gave evidence before the Committee, says, “ What I would do myself would be this : I would make it a substantive felony for the parent of a child, either before, or at, or during, or immediately after the birth, to cause the child to be prevented from being born alive or to die; when that was done intentionally, I would make it a substantive felony, to be punished severely.” Wounds and Injubies. Wounds and injuries of the neck.—D. P. Gfiiterbock1 contributes an elaborate and exbaustivernedico-legal memoir of 88 pages on wounds and injuries of the neck, enriched by many illustrative cases. It is impos- sible to attempt any useful abstraction of this paper, not the least valu- able part of which is an elaborate index of references to the literature of the subject. Dr. Edward Hofmann,2 of Innsbruck, relates and critically examines a case of strangulation. J The resistance of the tissues before and after death.—Dr. Falk,3 of 1 ‘ Vrtljhrssclir. f. Gerichtl. Med. xix, p. i. Ibid., p. 89. 3 Ibid., p. 18.