177 AFFECTIONS OF THE LlVEll. of the Right Pleural Sac ” (woman, set. 36), ib., 130. Legg, “ Hydatids of the Liver, Omentum, and Recto-vesical Pouch, Compression of the Hepatic Duct, Jaundice, Xanthelasma Multiplex” (man, act. 35), ib., 153. Duffin, “ On the Value of 1 uncture in Hydatid Tumour of the Liver,” ‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 23. (f) Affections of the Bile-ducts, &fc. J. W. -Legg publishes (‘St. Barthol. Hosp. Bep.,’ ix, 161) the results of several observatious upon the changes which occur in the liver after ligature of the bile-ducts in cats. He describes at length the mode of operation and the various symptoms noticed while the animals lived. Microscopic examination of the organ showed increase of the connective tissue, with the presence in it of lymphoid corpuscles, and atrophy and fatty infiltration of the liver-cells. The morbid state which most closely imitates ligature of the ducts is their congenital obstruction outside the liver; and here the same change of events assumed by the writer to take place in the artificial seems to occur also in the more natural operation —“ the change of the bile-ducts into a fibrous cord influences all the connective tissue in the portal canals, and an overgrowth takes place.” At the same time it is carefully pointed out that the theory of acute yellow atrophy, according to which it was supposed to be due to ob- struction of the bile-ducts, receives no support from these experiments. Moxon, “Simple Stricture of the Hepatic Duct, causing chronic jaundice and xanthelasma,” ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiv, 129. Cayley and Silver, “ Obstructed Common Bile-duct, giving rise to jaundice and enlargement of the liver,” ib., xxv, 127. Legg, “ Gall-stone in the Common Duct, dilatation of all the bile-ducts behind it, abscess in the left lobe of the liver, finding its way into the pericardium and right pleura,” ib., 133. Jackson, “Case of Occlusion of Gall-bladder” (237 stones, woman, set. 29, autopsy), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, ii, 71. Dujardin-Beaumetz, “Etude sur le Spasme des Voies biliaires, a propos du traitement de la Colique hepatique,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ Ixxxv, p. 385. Phillippe, “ Observation de Colique hepatique, avec obstruction complete des voies biliaires, due a presence de calculs, guerison,” ‘ Union Med.,’ xv, 276. Hertz, “Ein Pall von Gallenfistel,in den Bauchdecken, bedingt durch Durchbruch von Gallensteinen,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 161. Westphalen, “Ein Fall von Gallenfistel,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ xi, 588. (y.) Malformation, fyc.; Jaundice. B. Biegel (‘Deut. Arch.,’ xi, 113) gives the following:—A woman, let. 49, had during life presented two tumours on the right side of the abdomen, separated from one another and from the liver by a clear tympanitic sound on percussion. The autopsy showed that a large portion was torn away from the liver, the thickness of which was much diminished, and was attached to it by a long slender pedicle, oyer which lay a coil of intestine. Another coil passed over the anterior surface of this portion of liver, and had thus led to the diagnosis of two separate tumours, which had been looked upon dui’ing life as faecal accumulations. The liver itself, which was adherent to the diaphragm, and the separated portion showed hyperplasia and hypertrophy of the liver-cells, and consequent in cicaso in size of the acini. There was on the whole the appearance of a syphilitic gummous hepatitis, but except a few cicatrices on the posterior commissure of the genitals there was no trace of syphilis. Muller (‘Zur Diagnose der Wanderleber,’ ib., xiv, 146) records the 12