254- REPORT ON SURGERY. pression depends on tho first class of causes, as an extensive depression of bone or a large clot of blood, surgeons are agreed as to tlie pro- priety of operative measures ; but when it is produced by an insignifi- cant foreigu substance, as an osseous spicule, or a few drachms of pus, they are not so unanimous in this regard. In the former case the importance of relieving a true source of pressure is fully recog- nised ; but in the latter it appears to the author that another equally weighty object in interference is too much overlooked, namely, the removal of a source of irritation. A small collection of pus, a ball, a fragment of bone, does not awaken primary symptoms of compression, but these are preceded by signs of irritation. Among the most reliable phenomena of suppurative meningitis, after gunshot injury of the skull, for example, are intense headache, high febrile action, convul- sions and delirium—a group of sigus which point to exalted sensibility and mobility of the nervous centres. Unless this condition be relieved, hemiplegia, dilated pupils, retarded pulse and coma rapidly follow. The same is true of a small abscess of the cerebrum in which the symptoms of paralysis of the motor and sensory ganglia are certainly rather ascribable to changes induced in the surrounding tissues than to pressure. Hence the question of operation in certain cases should be based on phenomena which are not really those of compression. In suppuration of the membranes, or of the substance of the brain, the aim of the surgeon should be to anticipate consecutive trouble and to get rid of a localised source of irritation, thereby preventing the ex- tension of the inflammatory process. The symptoms of compression are said to be profound insensibility, and paralysis of motion and sen- sation as denoted, briefly, by utter unconsciousness, opposite hemi- plegia, and anaesthesia, full, slow, or laboured pulse, dilated and fixed pupils and stertorous breathing, i. Compression from extravasated blood. Less often met with in army than in civil practice. The different forms are gone into in detail. In six cases the symptoms appeared at a period varying from twenty to thirty minutes to several hours; in one on the third day, and in one they were delayed till the sixteenth day. In all these there was rupture of the middle meningeal artery. In four instances in which the blood was between the dura mater and the bone, but came from many points, the symptoms set in in a few minutes, and in three they were delayed respectively until the third, sixth, and sixteenth day. The symptoms of this form of compression are characterised by not being immediate. The haemorrhage occurs during reaction. If the quantity be large, the symptoms follow quickly ; if small, the brain accommodates itself. One pupil may be dilated owing to pressure on the third nerve by the clot, as pointed out by Mr. Hutchinson. Contusion and laceration may produce symptoms similar to those of compression. It is very questionable whether a large effusion is ever absorbed. Surgical interference is therefore in- dicated. If the dura mater does not rise up into the aperture made by the trephine it is a very unfavorable sign. In seven cases in which trephining was resorted to for laceration of the middle meningeal artery only one patient recovered; whereas in seven cases in which the small vessels gave rise to the haemorrhage, five patients recovered. Cases