401 UTERlNl) TUMOURS. pain are spoken of next, and then the methods by which a submucous fibroid tumour can be removed. The enucleation ot the interstitial variety is fully dwelt upon: an operation which the lecturei’ much recommends, and one which has been very successful in his hands: he describes fully the method of operation. Mr. W. Ross Jordan gives two cases of large fibroid tumour of the uterus successfully treated by enucleation. (‘ Lancet,’ March, 1873.) Mr. John Scott (£ Lancet,’ Dec. 1873,) gives a detailed account of the removal of a large submucous fibroid of the uterus by enucleation and torsion. The tumour was ovoid, weighing 1 lb. 6 oz., ana attached from the os to the fundus of the uterus on the anterior wall. M. Boinet (‘Graz. Hebd.’ 1873) thinks that gastrotomy should not be practised for fibroid tumours of the uterus unless they are peduncu- lated, and that to remove the uterus in part or altogether is a most dangerous procedure. Mr. Lawson Tait read a paper before the Roy. Med. & Chir. Soc. (Oct. 1874), giving an account of a successful operation for the removal of a large fibro-myoma from the fundus uteri. The patient, set. 34, had suffered from a large abdominal tumour of rather rapid growth for 5 years. There was profuse menstruation and frequent symptoms of pressure upon the pelvic organs. The tumour was central, and reached two inches above the umbilicus, was completely solid and moveable with the uterus. It was removed by an operation, the steps of which being exactly the same as for ovariotomy, the tumour was found to spring from the whole of the fundus uteri, and the part of the organ above the internal os was removed with it. Recovery was rapid and uninterrupted, and the clamp came away on the eighth day. The tumour weighed eleven pounds, and was an ordinary fibro-myoma. (‘ Obst. Journal,’ Dec. 1874.) Dr. More Madden, in a paper read before the Obst. Society of Dublin (‘Dub. Med. Journ.,’ 1873) on the diagnosis and treatment of uterine polypi, after giving the symptoms and the statistics of a number of cases, speaks of the treatment, and considers that more may be done by medical treatment, especially in those cases where patients refuse to submit to operative treatment, or where the operation, if performed, would imperil life ; he advises the long-continued use of iodine, and the bromide of ammonium and potassium. Dr. Hildebrandt writes (‘ Beitrage zur Grynak. und Greburtsk.,’ iii, 2> IS74) on ^he treatment of uterine fibromas and myomas by the subcutaneous injection of ergotine. He gives a number of cases in which it has been tried both successfully and unsuccessfully. He thinks the following are the most favorable conditions for this treat- ment:—1. When the tumour is a fibroma, elastic and rich in muscular fibres. 2. When it is submucous. 3. When the walls of the uterus are healthy and capable of contracting, not thinned through being ex- panded, nor thickened by exudation, and when no peri- or para-metritis is present. Dr. Lombe Atthill communicates (‘Dublin Hosp. Gaz.,’ 1874) a case of fibrous tumour of the anterior labium uteri successfully removed by the galvanic knife. The patient made a slow but good recovery. 26