136 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Mediastinal Growths. W. H. Dickinson (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’xxiv, 33) records the case of a gentleman, fet. 64, in whom fits of extreme dyspnoea, and death from exhaustion, were due to the compression of the right bronchus by a lymphoid growth. The autopsy showed a firm lobulated tumour, cir- cumscribed and rounded, lying in front of the trachea, immediately above its bifurcation. It was somewhat flattened upon the trachea, embracing about a third of its circumference, reaching further to the right than the left. It measured 2 in. vertically, if in. horizontally, and 1 in. in the antero-posterior direction. Behind the trachea and right bronchus, which they had flattened, were masses of enlarged and altered glands, the larger of the size of chestnuts. A general diffused thickening was found about the bifurcation, and densely surrounding the right bronchus, the calibre of which was reduced by the different growths to a mere slit, which would have been nearly filled by a six- pence passed edgeways. The growths presented microscopically the ordinary characters of lymphadenoma. 0. T. Williams (ib., 23) gives a case resembling the last in its clini- cal aspects, differing mainly in the nature of the growth. The subject was a waiter, mt. 41, who died at last from exhaustion. On removing the sternum a hard nodulated mass was found about 3 inches laterally and vertically, involving the bronchial glands, the lower portion of the trachea, the right and partially the left bronchus, as well as the arch of the aorta and oesophagus. The growth had apparently infiltrated the organs in its neighbourhood. At the lower end of the tracheal mucous membrane was a commencing ulcer,connected with the tumour. The right bronchus was considerably, the left only slightly, con- tracted ; the mucous membrane was iuvaded by villous-like outgrowths of the tumour. The secondary and tertiary bronchi of the right lung, especially in its lower lobe, were greatly dilated. The cervical glands on the left side were enlarged and indurated. The other organs were healthy. Microscopically the tumour seemed to be a form of soft car- cinoma very different from the lymphoid growth usually met with in the mediastinum. G-ueneau de Mussy gives (£ Gaz. Ilebd.,’ x, 330) some new facts in relation to bronchial adenopathy (see last ‘ Keport,’ p. no). As the cases recovered, no proof of the original mischief exists, and the treat- ment to a very large extent consisted in the administration of the waters of La Bourboule. The clinical symptoms of the affection are sketched in a paper read before the British Association (‘ Brit. Med. Jour.,’ 1873, ii, 536). . D. Powell relates (‘Brit. Med. Joui.,’ 1873, 1, 102) the occurrence of a large lymphomatous growth in the posterior mediastinum of a man Set 20 which invaded the left lung, consolidated the lower lobe and the inferior four fifths of the upper lobe, pushed the heart over to the rfeht side, and involved the left'auricle. The glands of the poste- rior mediastinum were the only ones attacked. _ , o Hansom (ib. ib., 199) records a similar case in a man, rnt. 28. Ike clinical symptoms given are in no way exceptional. On removing