STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 319 bistoury, very sharp and double-edged near the point, is carried by the index finger into the rectum ; it is then thrust forwards at right angles to the axis of the rectum, exactly in the middle line and about an inch and a quarter from the anus, and in front of the apex of the pros- tate, which the finger can readily feel. The bistoury is then drawn forwards to an extent sufficient to allow the tip of the finger to be introduced into the urethra. The finger can now be carried backwards to the bladder or forwards to the stricture. The finger being directed towards the stricture, a soft Trench bougie is directed forwards along its concavity, through the stricture and out at the meatus. The rectal end of the instrument is then carried into the bladder and the stricture is treated on the principle of continuous dilatation. In twenty-four hours, a large instrument can be introduced from before backwards, and in another twenty-four hours one of the largest size. (‘ Surgical Inquiries,’ p. 24.) Abscess of the prostate simulating stricture of the urethra ; peritonitis.— The patient was 44 years of age. His symptoms began with incontinence three years previously. He had noticed blood in his urine for three weeks. He was in a very low state on admission. He gradually sank. Extensive peritonitis was found, chiefly marked in the pelvis. Just at the apex of the prostate was a small sac in the roof of the urethra, burrowing forwards on the right side, for about half an inch, contain- ing purulent fluid. No communication existed with the urethra. The bladder was greatly hypertrophied, except at the apex, to which omen- tum was adherent, and where the walls were as thin as paper, and in a sloughy condition. No perforation was found. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Oct. 2^, 1873.) Vascular groivtlis of the urethra.—Dr. Edis has found a saturated solution of chromic acid answer very well for the destruction of vascular growths of the female urethra. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 4, 1874.) Mechanical obstruction to the flow of urine into the bladder for eleven days.—The patient was a man, jet 51. One day on getting up he passed urine freely, but, while breakfasting, was taken with severe pain in the left lumbar region. He passed no water subsequently, and none passed into the bladder for eleven days except a little on the fourth day. He became exceedingly ill, but on the eleventh day passed a quantity of urine. About eight years before he had suffered from gravel. Dr. Cunynghame supposes that the right kidney was of little use, or none, and that the left ureter had become plugged. (Mr. Hutchinson recorded a very similar case some time ago.) The more interesting points appear to be (1) the length of time passed without urination. (2) The total absence of symptoms of ursemia. (.3) Tlie advantage, or apparent advantage, of the mechanical action of gentle friction. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1874.) Fatal retention of urine produced by a fibroid groivth in a young child. —The patient, aged nineteen months, was under the care of Mr. Henry Smith. A catheter could not be passed. There was some swelling to be felt between the rectum and the bladder. At the post-mortem a fibrous growth was found apparently springing from the periosteum of the pubes (ind ischium. (‘ Lancet,’ Dec. 27, 1873.)