300 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Foucard records a case of imperforate hymeneal membrane in ‘ Medicale,’ March, 1873. The patient suffered from retention of urine for 24 hours ; on using the catheter a large tumour was dis- covered projecting between the labia, the bladder was emptied and the membrane incised, and a large quantity of inodorous blood flowed out. The patient married, and on Dr. Foucard being called in for the first accouchement, he found that the lips of the incision had closed: labour was effected without any new incision and without rupture of the vulva. Another case is recorded by Dr. Pirotan in the £ Gazette des Hopi- taux.’ A woman, aged 21, had never menstruated; she had been treated by tonics and iron for four years in the hope of inducing men- struation, but without effect. Each month she suffered from intense pain in the abdomen, groins, and genital organs ; micturition was difficult; the abdomen was hard, swollen, and painful, especially in the right iliac fossa; there existed in that situation a rounded, circum- scribed painful tumour, which flattened under pressure. At last she was examined during the monthly attack. Between the labia there was a prominent bulging tumour ; the abdomen was distended and the tumour reachingto above the umbilicus, was fluctuating and well defined; the bladder was distended, the uterus bulging to the right. The hymen was incised, giving exit to at least six litres of blood; the swelling dis- appeared, and the patient speedily recovered, and has since regularly menstruated. (‘Lancet,’July, 1873.) Dr. Lloyd Roberts relates (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1873) a case of imperforate hymen with retained menstrual fluid ; the patient was aged 20, and had never menstruated : the abdomen was gradually enlarging, and a tumour was felt as high as the umbilicus ; under chloroform a trocar was passed through the hymen and eight ounces of thick fluid was withdrawn; during the next 14 days about twenty ounces more exuded. Some feverish symptoms and abdominal pains set in, but sub- sided ; subsequently the opening was enlarged, the patient did well. Menstruation. Dr. J. "Williams, in a paper read before the Royal Society on the structure of the mucous membrane of the uterus and its periodical changes, concludes from observations made on the uteri of nine women who had died in different stages of the monthly period, that men- struation appears essentially to consist not in a congestion or a species of erection, but in growth and rapid decay of the mucous membrane. The menstrual discharge consists chiefly of blood and of the debris of the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus. The source of the hemorrhage is the vessels of the body of the uterus. The mucous membrane having undergone fatty degeneration, blood becomes extravasated into its substance ; then the membrane undergoes rapid disintegration, and is entirely carried away with the menstrual dis- charge. A new mucous membrane is then developed by proliferation of the inner layer of the uterine wall, the muscular tissue producing fusiform cells, and the groups of round cells enclosed in the meshes of