THE PUERPERAL STATE. 443 Dr. T. More Madden read a paper before the Dublin Obst. Soc., May, i S 74, on puerperal convulsions; he relates eight cases which had occurred in his practice, and enters fully into the causation and treat- ment of the aftection. (‘Obst. Journal,’July, 1874.) Prof. Walley read a paper before the Obst. Soc._ of Edinburgh, March, 1874, on the comparative anatomy ot the arterial cerebral cir- culation in animals and the human subject, as bearing on parturient apoplexy and convulsions. (‘Obst. Journal,’ Sept. 1874.) Dr. J. J. Phillips (‘Obst. Journ.,’ April, 1873) relates a case of paralysis of the bladder following labour and lasting for two years, which was cured after the application of a galvanic battery current, applied daily, for about a month. Olshausen writes on the diseases of the urinary organs during pregnancy and following labour (‘ Beitr. f. Greburtsch. und Gtynak.,’ ii, 1873), and draws attention to the frequency during pregnancy and labour of various diseases of the urinary organs, such as catarrh of the bladder, pyelitis and nephritis. Dr. Carl Rokitansky, jun., publishes some researches upon the com- position of the lochia. (‘Strieker’s Jahrbucher,’ 1874.) At first it consists almost entirely of blood, the number of red corpuscles gradu- ally diminish, but in no regular way. The number of pus-corpuscles increases from the delivery, on the first day very few are found, more on the second, and the maximum is usually reached on the third day. The uterine wound resembles any other surgical one in this. The pus globules are oftener granular in the lochia of sick women than in those in good health. The trichomona is found in every lochial discharge as it is in the vaginal mucus apart from the puerperal state. The author thinks a greater number of bacteria are found in the lochia of women suffering from puerperal fever; but the presence of bacteria in the genital secretion is not characteristic of puerperal fever ; the author has found them under other circumstances. Dr. Haussmann writes (Berlin, 1874) on the parasites of the female sexual organs and on the parasites of the breast. He commences by describing the vegetable parasites which may be brought to the nipple by the mouth of the nursling; these are—1. Bacteria and vibriones. 1. Spores of various kinds, coming from the vagina or the rectum, and transmitted to the child at the moment of birth. 3. The spores of oidium lactans ; 4. those of oidium albicans. The author thinks these two are identical; he has not met with the leptothrix buccalis which Seux speaks of. As to the animal parasites Haussmann denies the presence in the breast of the various kinds of maggots which ancient authors speak of. He has especially studied the echinococci and the hydatid cysts of the breast, of which he has collected six observations. The hydatid cyst develops in the connective tissue which separates the acini of the gland ; it forms an indolent, fluctuating tumour, intimately adherent to the gland, movable under the skin and the pectoral muscles. The tumour very slowly increases, at times during lactation it rapidly enlarges. In one case a woman had nursed her child without inconvenience with a breast occupied by a hydatid cyst The general health is unaffected by the presence of the tumour. Laying