258 REPORT ON SURGERY. as no matter was found outside it, and turned back. The brain bulged up and seemed tense and elastic as if matter were confined below. A bistoury was quickly plunged in. Instantly a column of extremely fetid pus spouted to a height of several inches. The relief was imme- diate. The amount of pus was estimated as five ounces. ITe gradually recovered and was apparently in excellent health and good condition intel- lectually five months after the operation. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep. t ix> 9 6.) Trephining in depressed fracture.—Mr. Savory, in a clinical lecture, discusses the question of trephining in depressed fracture of the skull. In fractures without depression and without symptoms, whether simple or compound, no operation is advisable. In a simple fracture with depression, but without any symptoms of compression, non-interference is the rule. If the fragments have been driven in endways or edge- ways it is generally expedient to operate in order to obviate or render less likely any remote effects (inflammation, &c.). If there be a wound the treatment is the same, the operation being rendered more obvious and easy than in the last case. If symptoms are present without depression, &c., it is difficult to decide on the proper treatment. It is well to wait awhile and watch the symptoms. When both depression and symptoms of compression are met with the rule is, perhaps, even when the fracture is simple, to cut down and raise the depressed por- tion. There is one form of fracture in which the rule is constant to trephine at once. This is the punctured fracture, in which the inner table is much comminuted. The operation is performed in order to prevent, if possible, the irritation and inflammation almost sure to be set up by the small and often sharp splinters which are formed. Mr. Savory says children’s brains bear the irritation of depressed frag- ments much better than adults do. The “ power of accommodation ” is greater in the child. The injured part is able to adapt itself to the altered conditions far more quickly than at a later period of life. (‘Lancet,’ Aug. i, 1874.) Cutting forceps versus trephine.—Mr. Maunder calls attention to the advantages of Hoffman’s cutting forceps in removing overhanging bone in cases of compound depressed fracture of the skull. Sound bone is thus saved rather than by using a trephine. (‘Lancet,’ June 27, 1874.) A case of traumatic epilepsy successfully treated by trephining.—Hr. Dickson related the case of a lad, set. 16, who had suffered from epilep- tic attacks for four years after a blow on the left parietal eminence from a fall. The fits commenced a week later and recurred almost weekly. There was a cicatrix on the left temple, which was often painful. Mr. Bryant trephined the skull, removing a portion of thickened bone. Great relief followed. (‘Lancet,’June 7,1873.) In another case the patient, a man, set. 39, was under the care of Dr. Wilks and Mr. Cooper Forster. Nine years before he had received a blow on the spine, and four months before on the top of the head. There was a slight swelling remaining, and when this was incised, five days after admission and six alter the onset of the fits, some pus escaped, but no relief to the fits followed. Three