430 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. In congenital luxation the sacrum is inclined to the affected side whether the lower limbs are used or not. In the acquired it is the same when the affection is of long standing and the lower limbs have not been used, otherwise the sacrum is bent to the healthy side, or is almost straight. This symmetry of the sacrum depends upon the amount of atrophy, the arrest of development, and the weight of the body. The position of the symphysis is variable; with regard to the shape of the pelvis, the following are distinguished; («) Pelvis not flattened trans- versely (met with in young subjects and congenital luxation) ; (i) Pelvis flattened but not narrowed transversely (in acquired luxation) ; (c), Pelvis flattened and narrowed transversely. Spiegelberg read a paper before the Gynaecological Section of the Natural Science Meeting, at Wiesbaden, on the course of labour and the treatment in contracted pelvis. His remarks are confined to the three forms of contracted pelvis most commonly met with in practice: i, The simple flat pelvis (of ricketty origin or not); 2, the uniformly and generally contracted pelvis; 3, the generally contracted flat pelvis. (‘ Archiv f. Gynak.,’ vi, 2.) Dr. Cohnstein writes on the complication of pregnancy and parturi- tion by cancer of the cervix (‘Archiv f. Gynak.,’ v, 2). He has collected 134 cases. The chief conclusions of the paper are—i. Age. In 58 cases where this was given, the youngest woman was 27, the oldest 49. 2. The number of pregnancies. Of 75 cases in which this is stated 70 were multipart. 3. Conception may take place irrespective of the nature of the cancer and when in an advanced stage of ulcera- tion. 4. In the great majority of cases pregnancy reaches its normal end. In 3’3 per cent, the course of pregnancy was uncomplicated, in the remainder there were disturbances of the digestive, urinary, and nervous systems. 6. The influence of pregnancy on the cancer de- pended upon whether the cancer had developed during the pregnancy or was present before; if the first, its progress was more or less rapid ; if the second, it was often modified. Dr. J. J. Phillips (‘ Lancet,’ March, 1873) relates in detail two cases of labour complicated with malignant disease of the genital passage, and points out the advantages to be derived in malignant induration of the genital passage from the employment of hydrostatic pressure to effect gradual dilatation. Dr. Lusk reports (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ Jan., 1873) a case of occluded vagina at the time of labour in a single woman set. 21. The vagina was short; in its upper part a small fossa, working with the index finger, a passage was made up to the uterine cavity ; then Barnes’ bags wrere used and the passage dilated to allow the use of the forceps. Nothing in the history of the patent could explain the condition. Mr. G. Roper related (‘Obst. Soc. Trans.,’ 1873) a case of hyper- trophic elongation of the cervix uteri at full term; the patient was a primipara, aged 22 ; the cervix was 4 inches long, as thick as the wrist, and protruded 3 inches outside the vulva ; after waiting a sufficient time 7 incisions were made in the os externum, which cut with a firm, haid, gristly sensation; the os gradually dilated, and ten hours after the patient was delivered by forceps. The mother did well. Two months after