329 AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. Disseminated suppuration of the kidney ‘ Surgical Ividney. —Dr. Dickinson describes the conditions met with at diflerent stages after death, and says the disorder has its origin in the regurgitation of urine charged with morbific products. This, forced backwards by the reten- tion, general in these cases, distends or occupies the straight ducts, Thence by transudation, or similarly, it enters the neighbouring blood- vessels, and charges them with an infection resembling in its results that of pyasmia. This is distributed by the veins fo the rest of the gland, sowing abscesses in their course, and ultimately causing copstir tutional symptoms analogous to those of pyaemia otherwise derived. The condition of the kidney may be described as one of pyaemia arising within itself. The patient generally dies within three weeks of the first symptom, sometimes within a few days. He mentions the case of an old woman with fracture of the thigh. Two days after the accident she became unable to pass water. A catheter was used, and the urine found to be natural. It then quickly became offensive and loaded with mucus, and death occurred within a week of the accident, three days after the urine changed its character. Small purulent deposits were scattered through both kidneys. The term “ uriseptic ” is suggested for this condition of kidney. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ lvi, 223.) Suppuration in a misplaced kidney treated by operation.—A married woman was under care for a floating kidney. The tumour increased, and became painful, and found a fluctuating swelling on the right side of the abdomen. The woman was transferred from Dr. Andrew’s care to that of Mr. Callender, A trocar and canula was first of all thrust into the swelling, and when pus was let out, an incision was made following in the track of the canula, \yhich passed through the peritoneum. The edges of the latter were stitched to the skin, and a drainage tube inserted. When last heard of fhe woman was doing well. Dr. Andrews considered that the kidney had become twisted and strangulated. (‘St. Barth. IIosp. Rep.,’ ix, 211.) Litho-nephrotomy.—A case in which Mr, Callender removed a stone from the kidney by a lumbar incision as for colotomy is narrated in the ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ ix, 220. The patient, a woman, died three days later. Cystic tumour attached to kidney simulating, ovarian disease; extirpa- tion of kidney ; recovery.—Dr. Campbell records the case. The patient was a woman, jet. 49, a widow. She had had five children; none for thirteen years. She had noticed a tumour in left iliac fossa for eighteen months. It was considered to be an ovarian tumour and ovariotomy was attempted. The cyst had a multilocular appearance and was of a whitish colour. About three fourths of it was covered by peritoneum. Ho fluid escaped on puncturing it. The cyst was laid open and dragged forwards. It was found to be attached posteriorly. The ovaries were quite healthy. The cyst was found to be connected, or rather thoroughly incorporated with the lower end of the left kidney. Both were removed. The ureter and renal vessels were tied with strong hempen thread • other vessels with catgut. The abdominal cavity was well sponged out with weak solution of carbolic acid, and the wound covered with gauze. The tumour was found to be caused by cystic degeneration of