233 ANEUKISM VARIX—NiEVUS. Treatment of varix.—Linon, of Yerviers, has for some years treated varices by the local application of a solution of chloride ol iron, witffi he says, satisfactory results. A compress soaked in a solution of chloride of iron (8 or io grammes in 230 grammes of water) is laid on the part, and secured by a bandage applied with moderate. tightness. At the end of twenty-four hours the dilatation of the veins is per- ceptibly less ; and it disappears under the daily renewal of the appli- cation in from eight to fourteen days. The best material for the compress and bandage is flannel, which resists the action of the iron longer than linen. (‘ La Tribune Medicale,’ 21 December, 1873.) Treatment of varix by injection of chloral hydrate.—Porta and Yalleriani treated fifteen cases of varix of the lower limbs, unattended with phlebitis, by the injection of chloral hydrate, at first in quantities of one gramme (13 grains) gradually reduced to a half and a third of a gramme. The coagula were absorbed, and the veins either atrophied or remained pervious, but not varicose. The operation did not produce either thrombosis, phlebitis, or suppuration in the neighbourhood of the veins. Porta has employed the method with good result in varicocele, and recommends its use in nsevus, aneurismal varix, and haemorrhoids. (‘ Gfazzetea della Cliniche,’ Nov. 1, 1874.) Sudden death following the injection ofperchloride of iron into a nccvus. ■—Mr. Kesteven records the case of an infant, aged nine months, who died within five minutes of the injection of a nsevus with perchloride of iron. The nsevus was on the head and had been partially cured six months previously by similar treatment. The child was subject to laryngismus stridulus, and Mr. Kesteven thinks it died in an attack of this malady, for it was seized with great difficulty of breathing. (‘Lancet,’ Feb. 7, 1874.) JScevus in an infant injected with perchloride of iron ; death.—The patient was nine months old, and was under the care of Mr. West for a nsevoid tumour, about the size of a small marble, on the right ala nasi, near the tip. Chloroform having been given, three drops of a solution of perchloride of iron were injected by a hypodermic syringe into the lowest part of the tumour. Three more drops were injected into the upper part of the tumour, and three more at a third part. On withdrawing the syringe the last time the child’s face changed suddenly to a dusky hue, the hands and feet became blue, the pulse could not be felt, &c. After artificial respiration the child rallied a little, but remained unconscious. He continued in this state for three days, and then died with well-marked hemiplegic symptoms. A clot was found in the right middle cerebral artery. (‘ Lancet,’ March 21 1874.) The means of arresting haemorrhage from deep cavities.—Dr. Lente has an article on this subject, more especially with reference to the rectum. Plugging he thinks objectionable, though efficient, on account of the inconvenience it causes the patient. Sometimes the plug sets up considerable fever; when this is the case, great relief may often be afforded by injecting some antiseptic frequently over any cut surfaces Dr. Lente prefers to ligature any bleeding point, and for this purpose employs the method suggested by Dr, Whitehead (see last Retrospect)