292 REPORT ON SURGERY. into the polypus ; the other through the mouth into the right side of the swelling, and the current was passed through the tumour for four- teen minutes. On November 29 the eschar fell off from the soft palate, and there commenced a discharge from the left nostril of a brownish- yellow fluid containing shreds of destroyed connective tissue; this was believed to indicate that an eschar formed by the action of the negative pole had been thrown off. On December 8 respiration and degluti- tion were more easy. After twenty applications of the current, the tumour decreased so much that in October, 1871, there was only a slight indurated elevation on the posterior inferior wall of the pharynx. Excision of the upper jaw; preservation of the muco-periosteal covering of the hard palate.—P. F. Reedinger describes in the ‘ Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift ’ for 1873, No. 44, the case of a woman, set. 33, who was under the care of Dr. Sinhart in consequence of phosphorus necrosis of both upper jaws. The operation was performed in the fol- lowing way. The nose and upper lip were divided in the middle line ; the soft parts with the periosteum were pushed back on both sides, and then the right upper maxilla was divided directly downwards from the infraorbital margin, the left from half an inch lower obliquely outwards as far as the last molar tooth but one. The gum, with three incisor teeth, was loosened, along with the covering of the hard palate, and both upper maxillse were thus removed. In the after treatment, in order to give the parts as much rest as possible, nutriment was administered to the patient in the form of clysters of Leube’s emulsion of meat and pancreas. This plan was carried out with the best results for three weeks ; in the mean time the healing of the parts operated on made rapid progress. Itemoval of superior maxillary and malar hones without external incision. —Dr. Hutchison records the case. The operation was performed for phosphorus necrosis. Retractors were used to keep the cheeks sepa- rated. The patient recovered. The periosteum was saved. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1874.) ,Removal of greater part of hotli superior maxillae for malignant disease ; recovery.—Mr. Nelson C. Dobson records a case. (‘Brit. Med. Jour.,’ Oct. 11,1873.) . Tumours of the upper jaw.—Mr. Bryant narrates cases in the ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xix, 108, &c. Dentigerous cyst of the upper jaw con- nected with the right upper canine tooth. Fibrous tumour growing from the anterior plate of the upper jaw. Fibrous sarcoma involving the whole of the alveolar process of the upper jaw. Myeloid dentigerous tumour of right upper maxilla; a most remarkable case. Three opera- tions were performed involving each time a naso-labial single incision for excision of the superior maxilla, owing to recurrence of the growth ; at the last operation the soft structures covering in the palate portion of the growth were turned back with a raspatory. When the removal of the Growth was accomplished these parts were brought up and stitched to the mucous lining of the cheek, and in this way a complete palate was formed. The incision in the cheek healed each time well. The patient was a girl, a*. 8. Tumour of the left superior maxilla