324 REPORT ON SURGERY. what ragged and blackish edges. The wall of the bladder for about two inches around was thin and of a bluish colour; it was also gan- grenous at several other points. In Douglas’s pouch there were found several ounces of a tolerably clear fluid having but little resemblance to urine. The author believes that most of the urine originally effused into the peritoneum was absorbed. (‘Marseille Medical*’ 18/4, x.) The vesical syphon in the treatment of urinary fistula.—H. Gripat in a thesis published in 1873, points out the good effects of the use of the vesical syphon, that is to say, a catheter retained in the bladder with a long tube attached to it, especially in cases of perineo-scrotal fistula arising from stricture of the urethra. The author seeks to show— 1. That a small flexible catheter, of good construction, may remain in the urethra without inconvenience. 2. That a catheter of this kind may be sufficient to commence dilatation, although it is not capable of completing it, i. e. of effecting mechanical dilatation. 3. That even when the bladder is inert, the urine may be removed without allowing alkaline fermentation to go on and destroy the catheter, and without allowing a drop of urine to pass between the catheter and the walls of the urethra, and thus to escape through the fistula. The vesical syphon was invented by Panas. A gum-elastic catheter, with a rounded end and of small size, even relatively to the stricture into which it ought to enter easily, is introduced into the bladder for as short a distance as possible. To this catheter is attached a piece of caoutchouc tubing, the lower end of which is immersed in a vessel placed under the patient’s bed, and half filled with water or with urine. If the bladder has preserved its contractile power, the siphon is naturally charged by propulsion; and when this condition is once obtained, no further effort is required on the part of the patient, as the aspiration of a column of water a yard high is sufficient to keep the bladder com- pletely empty. When the bladder is in a state of inertia, the siphon must be charged in some way ; the best plan is to exercise pressure on it from above downwards, so as to drive out the air, and allow the urine to flow into the upper part. This simple and ingenious apparatus “ prolongs the urethra under the patient’s bed.” It prevents stagnation in the bladder and alka- linity of the urine; there is no discharge through the fistula, and thus subsidence of the engorgement and spontaneous closure are permitted. (‘ Bevue des Sciences Medicales,’ July 15, 1874.) The febrile accidents following operations on the urinary and genital organs.—In a paper in the ‘ Wiener Medizinische Presse,’ 1873, Dr. Englisch offers an explanation of the febrile symptoms which follow even very trivial operations on the urinary and genital organs, and occasionally lead to death. From a number of experiments, he has been led to the conclusion that in most cases the symptoms depend on acute nephritis, the result of direct transference of irritation from the urinary passage along the mucous membrane. The transference is sometimes slow, sometimes very rapid, and occurs more readily when the kidneys have previously been healthy. The first indications of fever are connected with an increase of cells in the urine, coming from the upper