146 report on practical medicine. in the apex of the left lung; there was no prominent symptom of constitutional disturbance; the haemoptysis was never considerable, the post-mortem showed in the apex of the left lung three gangrenous abscesses filled with intolerably fetid pus. The rest of the lung was lvidly congested, and studded closely throughout “ with white specks of tubercles, which resembled the miliary variety in manner of de- position, but which possessed neither the glistening whiteness nor characteristic hardness of that class. The right lung was healthy, with the exception of a few scattered grains of tubercle in the upper lobe. This form of tubercle bears to the constitutional state developed by prolonged residence in India the same relation that the cheesy de- posit of scrofulous pneumonia bears to that particular diathesis.” Hayes, “ Gangrene of the Lung in Children,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,5 1874, i, 177. Growths, Foreign Bodies, fyc. G-. E. Elliott records (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, i, 541) a case of primary cancer of the lung in a female, set. 28. She presented the following symptoms :—Congestion of the face, and enlargement of the neck from fulness of the thyroid body; complete dulness, absence of respiratory murmurs and marked vocal fremitus over the right lung anteriorly ; dyspnoea, greatly increased on exertion; violent parox- ysms of cough, with slightly frothy sputum. The patient died about seven months after her first mention of intrathoracic pains. The au- topsy showed a considerable amount of fluid and numerous adhesions in the right pleural cavity. Almost the whole of the upper part of the luug was puckered up, nodulated, and converted into a hardish white substance, on microscopic examination encephaloid. There was a small quantity of serum in the pericardium, and the same growth made its appearance at the root of the heart in the form of a round nodule projecting between the right auricle and the aorta. The other organs were healthy. It. D. Powell gives (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiv, 28) a description with drawings of osteo-sarcoma occurring in the lung of a woman, set. 20, secondary to a growth in the right knee-joint. About two years after amputation of the latter she was attacked with haemoptysis and died in the course of four months. W. Hamburger records (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 328) an in- teresting case of a foreign body impacted in a bronchus. A strong man, set. 70, after a sudden fainting-fit presented symptoms of cerebral disturbance and great dyspnoea. The right half of the thorax was perfectly free from movement, no respiratory murmur was audible over it, and it measured an inch and a half less than the left side; the latter was emphysematous. As the symptoms were considered to be due to plugging of the right bronchus, a strong emetic was given, and the man expectorated a green pea, which had swollen to the size of a bean. This pea he had swallowed eight days before, and the length of time which bad elapsed before it gave rise to any symptoms was pro- bably due to the slow manner in which it bad gradually swollen, alter becoming fixed in one position. 4