392 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. connected with those of the subserous layer. The large canals, furnished with valves, which collect the lymph and are spread as a network over the horns of the uterus, lie between the two muscular layers, and receive all the lymph-vessels from both sides, externally those of the subserous and first muscular layer, internally those of the second muscular layer and the mucous membrane. 3. In the uterus of the human subject the lymph-vessels are more complicated, on account of the arrangement of the muscular fibres. They are most abundant in the external layers and in the other layers around the larger vessels, and are connected, as in animals, with the vessels of the subserous layer, but with those of the mucous layer mostly by the lymph-spaces. They unite together in the external layer, especially on the sides of the uterus, to form large canals, which very probably have valves. 4. The lymph-spaces, both in man and in animals, surround the smaller bundles of a larger muscular bundle, and pass into the lymph-vessels. In animals these spaces are individually connected with the canals in the serous and mucous layers, but in the human subject they are directly connected with those of the mucous layer. 5. The larger blood-vessels lie for the most part close to the collecting lymph-canals, the other lymph-vessels are accompanied by blood-vessels, for a certain distance, and the lymph- spaces quite regularly have small vessels running through them. 3. The serous coat.—1. Only lymph-vessels are found under the serous covering. They lie in the subserous connective tissue, and form large and characteristic networks. 2. They are much less numerous than the subserous blood-vessels, which lie over them, but they are from eight to ten times stronger. 3. They have large ampullae, points of union, contractions, valves, and swelling, and give off branches to the deeper parts, either vertically or at an angle. 4. In the pig, rabbit, and sheep, the networks have mostly a direction corresponding to that of the long axis of the horns ; in the human subject they cover the anterior and posterior walls in irregular, large, or small groups ; they have especially at the insertion of the Fallopian tube large ampul! m, and then pass on as an extended net upon the tube. Dr. Kundrat publishes (‘Medizinische Jahrbiicher,’ iii, 1873) an account of certain researches he has made upon the anatomical con- dition of the mucous membrane before, during, and alter menstruation. He has examined the mucous membrane of the human uterus in the in- terval of menstruation, immediately before the haemorrhage, during the haemorrhage, and again after it had ceased. The mucous membrane of the human uterus in the “ state of rest ” has certain peculiarities. There is no submucous tissue and the mucosa comes into immediate union with the muscular layer. Its matrix is peculiarly rich in round or spindle- shaped cells. The glands are lined with ciliated epithelium. At the monthly period of uterine activity, the mucous membrane is swollen, thick, loose and almost diffluent, covered with a whitish or bloody mucus, finely injected at spots, and in many cases uniformly colouie 0 a deep red. This condition of the uterus probably precedes the occur- rence of the discharge of the ovum and tbe menstrual flow by several days, so that the uterus is prepared for the reception of the ovum a certain time before the rupture of the Graafian vesicle. Microscopical