INSOLATIO—ACUTE EXANTHEMATA. 81 and hard palate. Sometimes the follicles of the mucous membrane swell up as small bladders, resembling morbilli miliariformes on the skin. In haemorrhagic measles this throat eruption puts on a similar appearance, and, of course, in cases where other affections, such as syphilis, diphtheria, &c., are present, varies in character. In those cases in which there is well-marked and great eruption on the skin, the mucous membrane of the mouth is also red, and the gums and lips especially are more or less swollen and covered with the same exan- them. In children affected with rickets or carious teeth, this swelling remains longer, and may be the starting-point of noma. The tongue shows no marked character; but, from twelve to twenty-four hours after the redness appears on the fauces, or in some cases simultaneously with it, the conjunctiva also becomes red. The mucous membrane of the nose and larynx shows the same changes. In opposition to measles, the intensity of the throat affection in Scarlet fever (l.c., 227) does not stand in direct relation to the exanthem, but varies with the character of the epidemic, x. The simple throat affection is never absent, though the skin eruption may not be found. It commences generally in the centre of the soft palate and spreads over the anterior pillars and tonsils, never over the postei’ior wall of the phai’ynx. This prodromal redness, which Monti compai’es with an analogous redness in smallpox, where, however, it commences on the posterior wall of the pharynx—is characterised by its sharp outline; it becomes more intense in the next twelve or twenty-four hours, spreads, becomes punctated about six or twelve houi’s before the exanthem appears on the skin, and is accom- panied with pains in the neck, &c. It disappears either before or simultaneously with the skin eruption. In anomalous cases it becomes livid, and is accompanied by swelling of the uvula and tonsils and increased secretion from the nose and throat. The follicles of the tonsils may suppurate and burst. 2. Angina scarlatinosa maligna without diphtheria is rare ; the tonsils, the cellular tissue about the throat, the parotid and submaxillary glands, are all involved. The suppuration in the tonsils may be followed by gangrene, spreading in various directions. Such cases are always fatal, -while those in wrhich gangrene follows diphtheria sometimes recover. 3. Diphtheritic angina does not, in the majority of epidemics, attack the larynx, and the writer has never observed it to be followed by paralysis of the extremities. He distinguishes three forms—(«) Simple circumscribed throat diphtheria, which begins like the simple throat affection, but is quickly followed by a membranous exudation on the tonsils, with excoi’iation of the mucous surface below, (i) Diffused throat diphtheria is always accompanied by great pyrexia and typhous symptoms, and spreads in all directions, in bad cases even to the larynx ; it may get wrnll in one to four weeks, or it may be further developed into—(c) Septic diphtheria, which is charac- terised by a livid red colour, oedema of the pharyngeal mucous membrane distinct swelling of the cervical glands, and inflammatory infiltration of the cellular tissue of the neck. The tongue in the prodromal stages presents a white fur in the middle, with red tip and edges. As the eruption appears, it becomes entirely red, with prominent papillae, re- gaining its normal appearance in from six to ten days. In complicated 6