PHTHISIS. 149 Bindfleisch also contributes (‘Heut. Arch./ xiii, 43) a very important paper ou “ Chronic Tuberculosis of the Lung.” After discussing the histological characters of “tubercle,” he proceeds to show that its original seat is to be found at the passage of the finest bronchi into the vesicles of the lung, and that its infiltration thence leads to the formation of a circumscribed white nodule—Laennec’s tuber- cle-granule. He further discusses the share of haemoptysis and pleurisy in the course of the affection, and the further advance of the original disease to peribronchitis tuberculosa and desquamative pneumonia, together with the modifications caused by the diverse mode of onset of the latter complication, the formation of cavities, the chance of any process of recovery, and, in conclusion, the different varieties of phthisis. E. Massini (“Leber die Heilbarkeit der Lungenschwindsucht,” ib., xi, 446) asserts, from his own observations, that two thirds of the fatal cases of phthisis belong to cheesy pneumonia, and that tubercle is found in only one third. In our present state of know- ledge it is impossible to say that we can cure cases in which miliary tubercle occurs. But the presence of cicatrices found post mortem in the apices of the lungs shows that cheesy pneumonia, when uncompli- cated by tubercle, can recover itself. Pulmonary phthisis frequently follows enteric fever, and since the decrease in cases of typhoid at Basle mortality from phthisis has also decreased. P. Mosler (‘ Berl. Ivlin. Woch.,’ 1873, 509) had already in two hopeless cases of phthisis punctured cavities in the lungs lying super- ficially, and washed them out with a weak solution of permanganate of potash, with an apparent improvement in the general condition. The case he now gives at length was that of a man, £et 49, who had been under treatment for five years with a cavity due to a dilated bronchus in the right upper lobe, and at last affected with amyloid degeneration of the kidneys and intestine. In this case he attempted to set up a direct lung-fistula, and, after making an opening in the second inter- costal space about 2% cm. from the right margin of the sternum, introduced a silver drainage tube. The operation was not followed by fever ; there was an abundant flow of pus from the tube, especially on coughing, and the man’s general condition became better. On the occur- rence of haemoptysis he was allowed to inbale through the canula a weak solution of Liq. Ferri Perchlor., which soon stopped it, and later on inhalations of carbolic acid and tincture of iodine were employed in the same way. The pus seemed to be secreted in less quantity, and the lung mischief did not apparently increase, but the patient died four months after the operation. Of the post-mortem appearances, which are given in full, the most noticeable is the fistula, which led into a cavity filled with a yellowish creamy fluid, occupying the greater part of the right upper lobe. The writer draws attention to the tolerance of the lung exhibited, the fact that the danger of such operations is less than might be expected, and the possible advantages gained by them. Bearing somewhat on the above paper are the observations of Koch 0 v. Langenbeck’s Arch.,’ xv, 689; ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1873, 891), made on