ANEURISM—LIGATURE OE ARTERIES. 217 under various headings. Secondary hemorrhage occurred in all hut two, and death took place in these from pyemia. Cases are also treated of in which other arteries were ligatured as well as the first part of the subclavian. He then passes on to ligature of the innominate. Iu twelve cases death followed, and in one case, in which the innominate, carotid, and vertebral arteries were ligatured, the patient recovered. The report extends over 143 pages and scarcely admits of abstract. ( Guy s Hosp. Rep.,’ xvii, 1872.) Aneurism of the subclavian treated by repeated galvano-puncture. Mr. Arthur Rergusson McGill records the case of a woman, aged 35, who came under care for an aneurism of the left subclavian of two years’ duration. On April 23, 1874, two of Weiss’s insulated steel needles were introduced into the aneurism from opposite sides, at a distance of four inches from each other, and were brought into appo- sition in the sac. The points were then separated and the current from five cells of Weiss’s continuous current battery was passed. This caused great pain, twitching, &c., especially when the points acci- dentally came in contact. The aneurism was beginning to feel harder, when it was noticed that the insulating material was coming off the negative needle. The needles were withdrawn at the end of three quarters of an hour. On May 3rd Dr. John Duncan’s needles were used ; one of platinum, the other of steel. At first ten, and afterwards fifteen cells of the battery were used. In half an hour the pain was so great that chloroform was given. The aneurism gradually solidified; it increased in size but did not become tympanitic. After an hour and a half no pulsation could be detected; at the end of two hours and a quarter the needles were withdrawn. There was no pulsation for thirty hours and then it began to return. On May 23rd three needles were introduced and connected with the negative pole, the positive consisting of a damp sponge applied over the aneurism ; twenty cells were used; there was no apparent result. In two months a similar operation to that on May 3rd was repeated for two hours and three quarters, chloroform being given the whole time ; the aneurism gradually got smaller and harder. In November she was at work as a mill cook. (1) It is advantageous to give the patient chloroform before commencing the operation, as without it it is impossible to pro- long the operation for a sufficient time. (2) The needles should be well insulated, to avoid burning the skin. (3) The current should be passed for at least two hours, probably twice that time. (4) The operation of inserting the negative needles had no effect. (5) The patient should be kept quiet in bed after the galvano-puncture. (‘Lancet,’ July 4, 1874.) Aneurism of the aorta and innominate; ligature of the right subclavian and carotid simultaneously• galvano-puncture,—Mr. Holmes records the case and comments on the treatment of such cases. He has no doubt of the advantage of ligaturing the common carotid, but it is not equally clear that ligature of the subclavian is of any avail. Catgut ligatures are valuable if you can rapidly ensure consolidation around the ligature; if not, some other form of ligature is better. The sub- cutaneous injection of ergot he has found inert, The acetate of lead