454 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. * Aim. d’Hyg./ t. xxxix, p. 431. powder. Alum was found in abundance in the stomach, and had probably been taken in the form of burnt alum, so that the dose of one ounce would correspond to two ounces of crystallised potash alum. Only one case of fatal poisoning by alum has been previously recorded, and the symptoms were not noted. The poisonous nature of alum has even been doubted, whilst others have attributed its toxic qualities to the acid properties of the salt, and have considered that it acts like diluted sulphuric acid. Nitrate of potassium.—Dr. Mouton,1 of Algiers, details an interesting and fatal case of poisoning by saltpetre. Death occurred from an exquisite form of asphyxia. The dose of the salt taken was one ounce. It must not be forgotten, however, that half this quantity has proved fatal to an adult. Osmium.—The deleterious action of osmic acid and of the osmium compounds generally was -first noticed by M. Dremy, and M. Sainte- Claire Deville was seized with persistent nervous asthma when working with osmic acid. M. Debray and M. Julien Clement were also affected by it; the former suffering from some affection of the eyes, the latter being troubled with an obstinate cutaneous affection. Another case of supposed poisoning, and a fatal one, is related.2 A perfectly healthy man, set. 30, with no history of syphilis, was taken into M. Sainte-Claire Deville’s laboratory, where he was engaged daily in handling pieces of the rarer metals, osmium, iridium, and platinum, and in the preparation of the barium salt of osmic acid. He was very soon affected Avitli pain in the eyes, heavy sleep, and nightmare. In a few days an extensive papular eruption appeared on the face, forearm, and sides of the hands. Dyspepsia, melsenic diarrhoea, headache, nausea (but not vomiting), rigors, cough, and dyspnoea followed. At one time the patient was almost in a state of asphyxia, and his temper- ature was 104° Palir., which was maintained for eight days after his admission into hospital, where he died. The urine contained a large quantity of albumen, which did not diminish under treatment, and there was extensive broncho-pneumonia. On post-mortem examination there was found to be extensive pneumonia, and in one lung a gan- grenous cavity. The kidneys showed the signs of acute Bright’s disease. The stomach was considerably inflamed along the greater curvature. Although M. Eaymond believes that this was an undoubted case of chronic poisoning by osmium compounds, this opinion must be received with considerable reservation. The pneumonia and kidney disease might have been quite independent of the action of osmium. M. Personne could detect no trace of osmium in the viscera. Poisonous colours.—Eenewed attention3 is directed to the dangers attending the use of poisonous pigments. Woollen stuffs of a blue- green colour with black stripes were found to produce itching and eczema of the hands of the dressmakers. This was due to the presence of picric and arsenic acids in the dye. Tim sea-green colour of some alpacas has been proved to consist of chromium arsenate. 1 ‘ L’Union/ 1873, 38 ; ‘ Schmidt’s Jalirb./ clviii, p. 242. 2 ‘ Le Progres Med'./ 1874, June 24th; ‘Lond. Med. Rec./ ii, p. 622.