376 REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. under the vessels becomes first affected, the pigment passes forwards along the passages of new connective tissue formed by the inflammatory process. When once it has arrived at the wall of a vessel it may either pass further or form collections of pigment there. The latter occurs tho more readily owing to the altered blood-pigment present in the obliterated vessels. The further steps of the process are given in de- tail. The last of the inflammatory changes is the polar cataract, due probably to the abnormal state of nutrition of the vitreous. The choroid need not share in the process, but if we find excrescences from the part lying immediately under the diseased retina, we need not be surprised. In the same way we are not astonished to find, as in the second case, that the walls of the choroidal vessels are affected in a similar way if once the disposition to inflammation of the walls of the vessels is present. The thickening of the walls of the retinal vessels found on microscopic and ophthalmoscopic examination tends to support the view that retinitis pigmentosa is a very chronic peri-vasculitis of the retinal vessels. The cases of retinitis pigmentosa without pigmentation support the same view. In these the process is confined to the inner layers of the retina, yet the objective and subjective results are the same. Perhaps the morbid process in retinitis pigmentosa may be compared to that in cirrhosis of the liver or kidneys. The first patient died of cirrhosis of the liver, the second of chronic interstitial nephritis associated with changes in the liver and spleen. The author alludes to the results of the experiments of Dr. Berlin, who divided the optic nerves in frogs and guinea-pigs. (‘ Zehend.-Klin. Monatsbl.,’ ix, 277.) Not only atrophy of the cell-elements of the retina followed, but also the pigment partially disappeared from the epithelial layer, and passed into the innermost portions of the retina. The changes were therefore similar to those met with in retinitis pig- mentosa. There was no marked hypertrophy of the connective tissue, however, and the granular layers as well as the rods and cones were preserved. These experiments are perhaps rather of value as showing in what way the pigment may reach the retina. It must not be for- gotten, however, that the vessels were divided at the same time as tho optic nerve. The results of this double section cannot be estimated apart from one another. Illustrations accompany the paper. (Grade’s ‘ Archiv f. Ophth.,’ 18 B., Abth. i, p. 325.) Retinal affections in traumatic fever. By M. Both (‘ Deutsche Zeitschr. f. Chirurgie,’ i, 147, Sept. 1872).—Embolic panophthalmitis. A woman, aged 3 2, was seized with an affection of her eyes three days after the birth of a child. Three days later she died. The result of the examination led to the diagnosis of retinitis embolica dextra, with secondary panophthalmitis of a puerperal origin. The starting-point appeared to have been the retina, in which, below and at the outer side of the optic disc, were numerous extravasations, and the vessels were extensively plugged with masses partly homogeneous and fragile, partly granular. The granular masses consisted of small, round, and biscuit- shaped corpuscles. The vessels which were plugged had undergone marked fatty degeneration. The posterior part of the retina vas opaque, and infilti’ated with isolated extravasations; the whole of tho