286 REPORT ON SURGERY. read before the German Surgical Congress on April 18, 1873, Herr von Langenbeck attributed the unfavorable results of resection of joints in military practice partly to the manner in which the lists of in- valids are drawn up, many men being, in order that they may secure their pensions, returned as more or less unfit to follow their calling although they have fairly useful limbs, and partly to neglect on tho part of the persons operated on of the necessary exercise of their limbs. For the ultimate result, the careful performance of the opera- tion is of more importance than the choice of the method; the com- plete preservation of all the tendons and muscles in the vicinity of the joint, along with the periosteum of the diaphysis, forms the essen- tial part of subperiosteal resection from which alone good results are to be expected. Shoulder-joint.—At first, Langenbeck performed scarcely any but secondary resections of this joint, but, in consequence of the greater destruction of parts produced by modern firearms, a wider field has been opened for primary resection. Good movable shoulder-joints can be secured by conservative treatment, if care be only taken to prevent anchylosis by means of passive movements. On the other hand, Langenbeck is acquainted with cases of loose union following extensive destruction of the joint, where the forearm and hand were not rendered useless. The power of using the limb, when once regained, is not again lost, but becomes more perfect in time. The favorable results observed by Langenbeck occurred almost exclusively in individuals placed in the conditions just described. Even after extensive resection of the diaphysis of the humerus, the possibility of retaining a fairly useful limb is not excluded. In a case of this kind, the whole shaft of the humerus became necrosed and was removed, and the elbow-joint was resected, and yet the reproduction of bone was so complete that the shortening amounted to no more than if- inches. The patient was young, and as growth went on the limb always remained some- what behind its fellow; but although the newly formed humerus was broken several times, there was very satisfactory power of motion in the should A1- and elbow-joints, and the hand was capable of the most delicate movements. The mortality after resection of the shoulder- joint, especially when the intermediate and secondary operations are taken into account, is less than that after exarticulation. Langenbeck arrived at the following conclusions as the result of his experience:— 1. All slight gunshot wounds of the shoulder-joint justify an attempt at conservative treatment, with the proviso that in many of these cases secondary resection will become necessary. 2. All extensive gunshot fractures of the shoulder-joint demand primary resection. 3. Shatter- ing of the shoulder-joint with laceration of the soft parts does not in itself call for exarticulation, but for secondary resection. 4. The object of conservative surgery is to preserve a movable shoulder-joint and to avoid anchylosis. 5. After anchylosis of the shoulder-joint has taken place, the usefulness of the arm may be improved by resection of the head o. the humerus. 6. The formation of a new joint capable ol active.move- ment is best secured by subperiosteal resection. 7. After subperiosteal resection, the most careful after treatment is necessary to secure a