315 TREATMENT OE RETENTION. care of Drs. Sansom and Cayley at the North-Eastern Hospital for Children. „ . . Septicaemia and the catheter.—Dr. Ferricr says urine is not prone to decompose unless some foreign body be introduced. The catheter is just such an agent. He kept some urine in a flask stopped with cotton 'wool for a year without its undergoing any change. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 19, 1873.) . . . The calibre of the male urethra.—Dr. E. N. Otis has m his possession a mulberry calculus measuring an inch and a half in the largest circum- ference and an inch aud an eighth in the smallest, and weighing just twelve grains. It was passed by a patient per urethram without in- convenience. He mentions eight cases in which he has found urethras would take a No. 34 French scale (an inch and a half in circum- ference) bulbous sound; two cases in which No 36, and one in which No. 40 (one inch and three quarters in circumference) would pass. The meatus is often much smaller than other parts of the urethra. He figures an instrument for measuring the calibre of the urethra. It is introduced as a small bulbous sound, and admits of dilatation at one part, the dilatation being read off on a scale at the handle. He calls the instrument a “ dilating bulbous sound.” (‘Lancet,’ July 11, 1874.) Simple apparatus for retaining a flexible catheter.—Dr. Will describes and figures an apparatus for retaining a flexible catheter in the urethra. It consists of a ring made of thin soft elastic material, generally known as dentists’ rubber-sheet; and of two strips of the same or of inelastic, material. The ring is passed over the glans penis into the constriction or cervix behind the corona; the slips are then to be brought forward and attached to the catheter by a thread or by means of a little gutta-percha solution. The construction of the appliance is the work of a few moments, narrow strips being cut from a sheet and fastened by the solution. If the plug for the catheter is long enough to go for some distance, there will be less difficulty in retain- ing the instrument. (‘ Lancet,’ Feb. 21, 1874.) Modification of the flexible catheter.—Dr. Cowan, having found the need of a flexible catheter which should still be stiff enough to allow of being pushed along the urethra, in a case of enlarged prostate, in a curved form, thought of inserting a spiral coil of wire within the catheter. He found it answer very well. He has also tried stiffening the catheter with an elastic watch-spring stylet. Both plans are described at length. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1874.) Treatment of prostatic retention of urine.—Mr. Hutchinson describes and figures a catheter and other aids, which he is in the habit of using in cases of prostatic retention. The catheter is a “ prostatic ” one, with a large opening near the extremity on the concave side. A piece’ of ordinary india-rubber tubing is pushed down the catheter, and is made to emerge at the aperture near the end. This passage outwards is facilitated by the extreme end of the catheter being plugged obliquely, so that a sloping surface is presented for the tube to glide over. _ Sufficient tubing should be passed to allow about fifteen inches to project from the catheter, and then the latter and the tube may bo