Intestinal obstruction; uysEnteRy. 1?3 Dysentery. V. Cornil (“ Note sur l’Anatomie pathologique des Ulcerations intes- tinales dans la Dysenterie,” £ Arch, de Phys.,’ v, 511) thinks that though the pathological changes as seen by the naked eye in dysentery have frequently been described, the minute histology of the affection has been neglected. After giving shortly the appearances found in a case of chronic dysentery with ulceration, he describes, with woodcuts, sections of the hardened intestine, comprising—1, the mucous membrane form- ing the borders of the ulcers; 2, the ulcers themselves; and 3, certain cavities filled with mucus. 1. The ulcerations were separated from one another by portions of swollen and congested mucous membrane, in which the glands of Lieberklihn were large and lengthened, vessels distended with blood running through the connective tissues between them. The muscular layer beneath was normal. 2. Sections of the ulcers showed only vestiges of the tubular glands, which in places had entirely disappeared; those which remained were separated by connec- tive tissue infiltrated with white cells. 3. In the ulcerated portions were follicular depressions, losses of tissue visible to the naked eye, and filled with mucus, elliptical or spherical in shape. Their orifice was circular, regular, and often narrow; their cavity simple or multiple; in the latter case the different cavities were partitioned off by tracts of fibrous tissue. The connective tissue in the immediate neighbourhood was filled with white or pus-cells. Cornil believes these cavities are the result of the destruction of the closed follicles. The ulcerated portions of mucous membrane showed marked pigmentation, as also did the enlarged spleen and the liver. He mentions a second case, in which there were no true ulcerations, as shown by microscopical examination, though with the naked eye it was possible to suppose their existence. In conclusion he remarks that in acute or subacute dysentery there occur puriform infiltrations of the submucous tissue followed by destruction, while in chronic dysentery the predominating lesion is essentially a production of fibrous tissue and thickening of the connective tissue of the large intestine. ^ M. Kelsch (£ Contributions a l’Anatomie pathologique de la Dysen- terie chronique,’ ib., 406) concludes from his observations that—1. A chronic dysentery is distinct from the chronic dysenteric diarrhoea of hot countries ; the former is always acute in its commencement, the latter is throughout a chronic inflammation of the colon. 2. The his- tological lesions found in the chronic diarrhoea and dysentery of hot climates are identical with those found in cases occurring in Paris. 3. The progress of acute dysentery is the same in all climates, and does not differ at bottom from that of chronic diarrhoea and dysentery. He gives full accounts of the lesions found in four cases—two of marines who had contracted chronic diarrhoea in Cochin China ; one of a soldier who died of chronic dysentery, with abscess of the liver, at Con- stantinople ; and a fourth, a phthisical patient, carried off by sub-acute dysenteric diarrhoea. These lesions agree with the changes described by Cornil. Kelsch attempts at the end of his paper to prove that the alteration found in acute dysentery is identical in nature with and