318 REPORT ON SURGERY. Mr. Teevan gives the results of cases of stricture which have come under his notice when tested by time. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 1873 ) The bougie conductrice in the treatment of narroio strictures of the urethra.—Mr. Rushton Parker advocates the employment of an instru- ment which he figures for the internal division of stricture. It is adapted for very narrow strictures. It is the one used by M. Maison- neuve. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 31, 1874.) Grooved catheter with conducting bougie.—Mr. Teevan figures and describes a small silver catheter which can be passed over a small whale- bone bougie in cases of very tight stricture of the urethra or where the latter is small and tortuous. The bougie is bulbous. The catheter is open at the end and is passed over the bougie for a certain distance and then the latter lies in a groove in the catheter. The groove is made by cutting a piece out of the catheter. (‘ Lancet,’ July 5, 1873.) New bulbed stricture sound for exploring the urethra from behind forwards.—Mr. B. W. Richardson describes and figures a bulbed sound for detecting position, &c., of stricture. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Nov. 1873.) The employment of bulbous bougies.—Dr. Miller makes some remarks on this subject. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1873.) Colies's operation for the relief of stricture at the orifice of the urethra.—The patient was a man set. 32. The case is recorded and figured by Mr. Richardson. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1873.) Urethrotome for incising narrow strictures.—Mr. Berkeley Hill de- scribes and figures a modified urethrotome for incising narrow strictures. A guide bougie is passed and then a catheter or the “incisor” is passed on this as required. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 29, 1873, ‘ Lancet,’ June 13, 1874.) Catheter urethrotome with conducting bougie.—Mr. Teevan describes and figures an improved urethrotome. It consists of a very slender bougie, over which a catheter is passed and evidence of entrance into the bladder obtained. The knife is then slid along the catheter. (‘ Lan- cet,’ May 23, 1874.) Modification of Holt's dilator.—Mr. Richard Davy describes and figures a modification of Holt’s dilator for stricture of the urethra. Two cases of death after Holt's operation.—Mr. Tibbits records the cases of two healthy men suffering from stricture who died in conse- quence of and shortly after Holt’s plan of splitting the stricture had been carried out. The mucous membrane in each case was intact. Rigors occurred and coma finally supervened. (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Aug. 2, 1873.) Stricture of the urethra treated by opening the urethra from the rectum. Mr. L. S. Little records a case of stricture treated on Mr. F. Jordan’s plan. The urethra was opened in front of the prostate in the middle line to the extent of half an inch. A bougie was then passed from the wound towards the meatus, but only reached the front of the scrotum. A catheter was passed into the bladder. At the end of a week a catheter (small) was passed through the urethra by the meatus. Finally a number 12 was passed. (‘Med. Times and Gazette, Sept. 20, 1873.) Mr. F. Furneaux Jordan thus describes his operation. A well-curved