2G6 REPORT ON SURGERY. Observations during some days after injuries are given. Mr. Callender says be never saw a case of recovery from an injury with “ sub-action.” As to secondary changes, he says by keeping a close watch upon the pulse and (more especially) upon the temperature, which always rose rapidly before any local symptoms appeared, he could always detect the very onset of any complication and practically gain twenty-four hours in the treatment. A table is given showing the pulse, temperature, and respirations of a number of patients, twice daily, for eleven days after operations, injuries, &c. (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Bep.,’ix, 3, &c.) Amputation-statistics.—Mr. Callender notes that Sir James Paget and himself have had 30 amputations in succession without a single death, 13 being of the thigh. (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Bep.,’ix, 2.) In the succeeding volume, page 133, he reports 44 cases of amputation with only one death, twenty being through the thigh with the single death ; sixteen of the leg and eight of the upper extremity, all recover- ing. Seventeen cases of compound fracture admitted since last report recovered. Forty consecutive cases of compound fracture showed only one death. Mr. Callender thinks that the mortality of primary ampu- tation is so high on account of operations being performed in hopeless cases. Where the condition of the patient is such as really to warrant operative interference the prognosis is good. Hospitalism and the causes of death after operations.—Mr. Erichsen gives a series of lectures on “ The rate of mortality after operations,” “ On the causes of death after operations,” “ On the mode of production of septic diseases,” “On the prevention of hospitalism.” (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ and ‘Lancet,’ Jan. 17 to Feb. 14, 1874.) The average mor- tality in his wards for twenty years in cases of amputation (excluding parts of the hand or foot) has been 257 per cent. Of 80 cases of amputation at the hospital from July, 1870, to Dec., 1873, 21 died, i.e. a mortality of 26 per cent. Adding the two sets’ of cases together he has a total of 387 cases with 100 deaths, a mortality of 2‘8 per cent. An average mortality of 24 to 26 per cent, over a series of years may be regarded as somewhat satisfactory. The reports of four large metropolitan hospitals show an average mortality of 367 per cenb. The average mortality after amputation in eleven of the largest British hospitals is 41'6 per cent. The two principal causes which deter- mine death after the greater operations are shock and septic disease, the former leading to 10 per cent, and the latter to 36 per cent, of all the deaths. Shock is most felt in primary amputa- tions. As regards extensive crushes of the thigh and leg necessitating amputation high up through the femur or at the hip-joint, Mr. Erichsen expresses the opinion that it is scarcely advisable to perform any operation at all, seeing how fatal the results have been. The author proceeds to discuss the various influences (hospitalism) con- nected with hospitals (over-crowding, &c.) which lead to septic diseases (pyaemia, &c.) being for more prevalent in hospitals than in private houses. He adduces ovariotomy statistics to show that there is some- thing connected with large hospitals determining increased mortality compared with operations in private or in small special hospitals. As regards amputations it is not so easy to draw comparisons, but Mr.