REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 174 differs only in intensity from, that occurring in chronic dysentery and diarrhoea ; and in a second paper (“ Contribution a l’Anatomie patho- logique de la Dysenterie Aigue,” ib., 687) he thinks that this opinion is confirmed by the autopsy of a soldier who died on the twenty-third day of acute dysentery. The mucous membrane in this case was almost everywhere destroyed. What remained showed as dark red islets, only partially adherent to the subjacent tissue. These islets consisted of Lieberkiihn’s tubes, irregularly disposed, atrophied, dilated, and pressed upon by the intermediate fibro-vascular tissue. The network of blood- vessels between the tubes was immensely developed, and all its branches, large and small, gorged with red and white blood-cells. Alongside of the blood-vessels were large collections of pus-cells. Kelsch found no trace of the closed follicles, and concludes that they suppurate together with the layer of tissue in which they lie. He holds that the morbid process commences in this layer (vascular zone of Dollinger), and that the changes in the mucous membrane (epithelium and crypts of Lieberktihn) are secondary, and he thus easily accounts for the desquamation of the mucous membrane, which is the fundamental anatomical characteristic of acute dysentery. The paper concludes with some remarks on the condition of the ileum in acute and chronic dysentery, the nephritis said to occur in the disease, and on the stools. Both papers are accompanied by excellent illustrations. B. Wenzel (“ Zur Behandlung der Ruhr,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 575) uses injections of ice-water in all recent and acute cases of dysentery, whether their character be slight or severe; in bad cases he employs them every two hours. He seldom finds it necessary to give opium. In old and recurring cases of chronic dysentery this plan of treatment fails. Amelung (‘Zur Behandlung der Dysenterie,’ ib., 125) obtains.great success from carbolic acid, which he continues every two hours till the bloody and slimy character of the stools disappears, and they become more natural. 1 Cersoy, “ Considerations pratiques sur la Dysenterie aigue,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Therap./ t. 84, p. 118. Quinquand, “Des manifestations rhumatoides de la Dysenterie,” ‘Gaz. des. Hop.,’ 1874, 419. Cameron, “Tropical Dysentery,” ‘Lancet/ 1874, i, 7. Donnet, “Notes and Practical Observations upon the Remittent Fever and Dysentery of the Gold Coast,” ib. ib., 227. Robert, “ Note sur l’Ailantbe glanduleuse (Ailanthus glandulosa) comme moyen de traitemeut de la Dysenterie,” ‘Arch, de Med. Nav., xxi 107. Ward, “ On the Treatment of Chronic Dysentery,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz., jgj, i ig4. Mead, “Of the Use of Chlorate of Potash and Glycerine Injections for'the Ulcerations in Chronic Dysentery,” ‘New York Med. Joura.,’ xviu, 265. Rapmund, “ Einige Falle von Gelenkentziihdung in Folge von Ruhr, Deut. Kim., 1874, 132. Affections of the Liver. («) Parenchymatous hepatitis; acute atrophy. Zander (‘ Virch. Archiv,’ lix, 153) found numerous bacteria mingled with the usual debris of hepatic cells, in a case of acute yellow atrophy; the fact had already been observed by Waldeyer. Yanden Bergh, “ Hepatite suraigue, ou Atrophia aigue du foie, probahlement due a un empoisonnement par le Phosphore ” (girl, set. 18),‘Presse Med. Telge, i8;4, 129. Ogston, “Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver, Abortion, and Post-mortem