426 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. the uterus was greatly expanded during labour, and contraction could only then take place in the longitudinal direction. The contraction of the uterus in early labour did not separate the placenta, wherever it might be inserted, whether prsevia or not. A small amount of the whole expansion of the cervix was sufficient to detach partially the placenta. He concludes that the placenta when przevia is "separated hy expansion, not by shrinking or contraction of the uterus. This detach- ment by expansion will go on till the internal os is dilated to a diameter of about four inches, and this may occupy the great part of the whole duration of labour. Expansion beyond this would produce very slight extension of uterine surface and so slight detaching power, which would probably be counterbalanced by placental expan- sibility ; so that this was the measure of the spontaneously detaching area: he showed that Barnes’s estimate of three to four inches from the os uteri must be far too great. (£ Obstetrical Journal,’ 1873.) Dr. Jacquet writes on hsematoma of the placenta (‘Archives de Physiologie,’ July, 1873.) He has examined the various blood-effusions that take place in the placenta and the microscopic changes which they afterwards undergo. They are so common that it is rare not to find a placenta with more or less evident traces of it. They may be divided into three classes : 1. Blood effusions in the substance of the mucous layer between the uterus and the placenta proper; these are rare: they are oval or rounded and appear as though encysted. 2. Intervillar or perivillar hsematoma (placenta apoplexies of authors) ; he describes in detail the modifications these undergo. 3. Subvillar hsematoma : these are the most common and cause the yellowish-white patches seen on the fcetal surfaces of most placentae. Most of these hsematomata depend upon some traumatic cause, as blows, falls, &c. General diseases, such as syphilis, do not appear to have anything to do with their causation. Dr. Braxton Hicks in a paper (‘ Obst. Soc. Trans.,’ 1873) calls atten- tion to the muscular susurrus in relation to the fcetal heart sounds, and points out that—1. The number of vibrations of the abdominal muscles in a state of half suspension can be distinctly counted, watch in hand. 2. Their number and sound are so like those of a very rapid foetal heart that they may be mistaken for them. Dr. Emil Rotter communicates (‘Archivf. Gynak.,’ v, 3, 1873) a paper on the uterine souffle perceptible by palpation. Dr. Matthews Duncan in a paper before the Obstetrical Society of Edinburgh, April 1873, on the changes undergone by the cervix uteri during labour, after speaking of the views held on the state of the cervix during pregnancy, says that labour simultaneously elongates, dilates, and thins the cervix uteri: the body of the uterus is active and pushes the presenting part of the ovum against the cervix ; the cervix is mainly passive, and while it is dilated it is also elongated and thinned. The body of the uterus in its regular contractions act upon the cervix and on the vagina equably, and at every part, pulling upon them, and pushing the foetus into and through them, somewhat as the arms pull on the leg of a boot while the foot is being pushed into and through it. (‘ Obstetrical Journal,’ 1873.) Dr. Angus Macdonald related to the Obstetrical Society, Edinburgh