generation.— development. 45 Komiti,1 Balbiani,3 Sernoff,3 Turner,4 Eauber,5 A. Schultz,0 S. L. vSchenk,7 Gasser,8 W. Koberts.9 Some interesting papers have been published in the Monthly Micro- scopical Journal by Drs. Dallinger and Drysdale10 in regard to the life- history of the monads. In their first paper they describe the life of a circomonad found in the fluid obtained by macerating a cod’s head. The monads as first seen were oval and possessed two flagella ; when mature this form multiplies by fission for a period extending from two to eight days. It then becomes peculiarly amoeboid; two individuals coalesce, slowly increase in size, and become a tightly distended cyst. The cysts burst and incalculable hosts of immeasurably small sporules are poured out as if in a viscid fluid and densely packed ; these are scattered, slowly enlarge, acquire flagella, become active, attain rapidly the parent form, and once more increase by fission. In some instances monads appeared and developed in an infusion which had been raised to 1270 C., and they are strongly opposed to the idea of spontaneous generation. M. Slavjansky11 states in regard to the retrogression of the Graafian follicle that these follicles are developed from the primordial follicles and acquire a greater or less degree of maturity during the whole of life, from the first month after birth till about'the age of 40. The greater part of the follicles do not ripen, do not burst, and do not dis- charge their contents, but undergo atrophy, presenting an almost com- plete analogy with that of the formation of the corpora lutea. 3. The development and maturation of the Graafian follicles do not occur periodically in a regular manner, and no connection exists between them and menstruation ; menstruation constitutes a physiological phenomenon which is quite independent of the development and maturation of the follicles. The rupture of follicles more or less mature always bears a certain relation to congestions of the genital organs, produced by any cause whatever. There exist certain maladies, acute poisonings &c which produce atresia of the follicles at different periods of their develop- ment after a parenchymatous inflammation of the ovary. 1 1 ‘Max Sckultze’s Archiv f. Mic. Anat.,’ Band x, p. 201, “Ueber den Ban und die Entwickelung des Eierstockes und des Wolfl'schen Ganges ” wdr^oti:--873' Band •*«> “s” '* uml derSSelGtoge ”'81’ “ Enl"icM““S Samem-olrchen des Hodcn, si. ^ »>•>*«*’ Miff '• 4 MCd' WiSS"' l8M' * *86’ Embryonalanlagc thiere?Utralblatfc f‘ d‘ Med‘ WiS8-’’ l8?4’ P' 8°4’ “Zur Phylogenie der Wirbel- 7 “ Vergleicliende Embryologie der Wirbelthiere,” ‘Wien,’ 1874 n 10S “ Habilitationschrift,” abstract in ‘ Centralblatt/ 1874, n. 8<2 UeW lung clcr Allantois der Muller’schen Gauge und des Afters ” ’ ?o‘‘St"dies ou Biogenesis,” ‘ Pbil. Transact./ vol. 164, part 2, p. 4,7. “Dallinger andl Drysdale in ‘Monthly Microscopical Journal/vol. L 187, nn „ and 245 5 vol. xi, 1874, PP- 7, 69, 97j vol. xii, p. 261. * *73’ ^ 1 Slavjansky, Abst. in ‘ Medical Record,’ June iS, 1874. ’ Entwicke*