214 REPORT ON SURGERY. haemorrhage during operations. (‘Med. Examiner,’ April, 1873, and ‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1874.) Aneurism of the axillary artery cured by indirect compression.—M. Verneuil had under his care (‘ Gazette Hebdomadaire,’ No. 12, 1873) a man suffering from aneurism in the left axilla; it had a diameter of about 3^- inches. The arm was first carried backwards, pronated and adducted, and fixed in this position to the thorax, and the pulsation was arrested, but the patient could not bear the position of the limb for any length of time. Digital compression of the subclavian artery (above the clavicle) was continued for twenty-four hours, but had to be given up, as the assistants became tired. A thick plaster of gypsum was now laid in the supraclavicular region, and digital compression was made through it until the plaster had hardened. Erom the model of the part thus obtained a leaden cast, weighing about 6% lb., was made, and was used for compression, this being increased by means of a handle. The patient ultimately attached to the handle three bands, which were fastened to the bed in various directions and kept the mass of lead in its place. This plan succeeded completely, when the weight was increased to about n lb. The subclavian artery was compressed in this way for six or seven hours daily for about ten weeks, at the end of which time the size of the swelling had become reduced by nearly one half, and the pulsations had almost ceased. The patient was now dismissed from hospital, but continued to apply the compression at home during several hours daily for ten months. Several years later he reported that the cure was complete ; the place of the aneurism was occupied by a hard mass of the size of a nut, which did not interfere with the usefulness of the arm. Axillary aneurism ; compression ; cure.—The patient was a man, aged 71. The tumour had only been noticed one month. He was under the care of Mr. Erichsen. Compression was applied for twenty-five hours —digital compression for eleven hours and mechanical for fourteen. The treatment extended from June 23 to Aug. 12. (‘ Lancet,’ Nov. 15, J873.) Axillary aneurism; pressure on subclavian ; cure.—Mr. Cooper Forster records a case. Pressure was applied at intervals for three days with some benefit and then under chloroform with a key above the clavicle for 5^ hours with complete success. It was, however, con- tinued three hours longer. (‘ Guy’s Hospital Beports,’ xviii, p. 61.) Ligature of the subclavian for axillary aneurism.—Dr, A. H. Hughes (‘ Canada Lancet,’Feb. 1873) records a case in a man, aged 25, who had atumour about the size of an orange in the axilla. The ligature came away on the twelfth day and the wound speedily healed. From this time for a period of eleven weeks no change whatever took place ; no pulse could be felt at the wrist; the tumour was consolidated, but did not diminish in size • and as there was considerable pain in the hand, owing to the pres- sure of the indurated mass on the brachial nerves, causing restlessness and uneasy sleep, it was determined to get rid of the sac and its con- tents by inducing suppuration in it. For this purpose a trocar and canula were introduced and the mass of coagulated blood contained m the aneurismal sac was thoroughly broken up. This produced the