418 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. death. At the autopsy the liver was found considerably atrophied. The child became jaundiced and died five days after in convulsions. Second case: the woman was also 26 years of age, and eight days before her second confinement she became jaundiced and bad sharp pains in the region of the liver, which on examination appeared lessened in volume. The woman was delivered of a child, which was jaundiced, and she felt better. The following day furious delirium and convulsions came on. The next day she died. The liver was notably atrophied and of a chamois colour. The child died eight days after. Dr. Ogston relates a case of acute yellow atrophy of the liver, abortion and death in a young unmarried woman aged 21, in the fourth month of her third pregnancy (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1873). Dr. Spencer Smyth relates a case of hydatidiform degeneration of the ovum occurring in a girl aged 13 (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1873). Dr. Duncan Bulkley, of New York, in a paper read before the New York Academy of Medicine, gives the clinical history of a patient under his care, who was attacked by herpes gestationis in her two preg- nancies. He gives a brief account of eight other cases observed during the last 20 years. He considers the affection of the skin depends directly upon the gravid state of the uterus, and may make its appear- ance at any month of gestation up to the seventh, and generally continues till the organ is emptied of its contents; the eruption is apt to recur at successive conceptions. The cutaneous manifestations are intense irritation, burning, itching or stinging, at times pain with erythema, papules, vesicles and bull®, which vary in size; the vesicles are in groups,*but do not follow any nerve track ; they appear first on the extremities, and then spread over the body. The eruption passes slowly away after delivery. At times other neurotic manifestations attend the eruption. Treatment has not had much influence on the disease ; relief occurs only on emptying the uterus. Dr. Angot reports (‘Graz, des Hopit.,’ 62, 1873) a case of uncon- trollable vomiting during pregnancy; vomiting set in about the end of the first month, and the patient was so reduced by the end of February that it was considered necessary to induce premature labour ; this suc- ceeded, and the patient did well. A fatal case of vomiting in pregnancy is reported by Mr. Bradley to the Manchester Medical Society ; the patient was a widow aged 37 ; the vomiting came on in the second month of pregnancy, and continued with- out intermission for seven weeks, when she died exhausted (‘ Obstetrical Journal,’ 1873). Dr.M.A. Pallen relates (‘St. Louis Med. andSurg. Journ.,’ Sept. 1873) a case of excessive vomiting in a patient six months pregnant. After trying without success every remedy, abortion was induced by punc- turing the membranes. One hour after the patient took some beefsteak and retained it, and the vomiting ceased; the foetus came away 48 hours after the operation. Dr. A. McClintock, in a paper on the excessive vomiting of pregnancy (‘Dublin Obst. Soc.,’ April, 1873), says primiparse are probably most disposed to this complication, which may set in at any period between t e end of the first and the beginning of the ninth month, usually a ew