AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS, ETC. 325 part of the urinary canal and from the pelves of the kidneys. In a later stage, cells of the urinary tubules and blood-corpuscles appear; and in very severe cases, tube-casts. Albumen 1S usually present very early. (‘ Centralblatt fiir die Medicin. Wissenschaft., August 15, ^Plastic operation for extroversion of the bladder and epispadias; death in thirteen hours.—A year previously the patient, a lad of sixteen, had borne a preliminary operation by Dr. Ashhurst very well, I his time too much was attempted at once, the operation was prolonged, and the patient sank thirteen hours subsequently. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. bci., April, 1874.) Amputation of penis close to pubes.---Mr. Tyrrel recommends trans- fixing the crura with an acupressure needle and tying a tape behind it. He leaves the needle in for some time to allow of pressure being easily used in case of haemorrhage. (‘ Dub. Journ. Med. Sci., March, 1874.) Amputation of the penis by galvanic cautery. Mr. Bryant relates various cases. (‘Lancet,’ March 28, 1874-) _ Tumours of the labia, S(c., removed by galvanic cautery. Mi, Bryant records cases. (‘Lancet,’ March 28, 1874*) Epithelioma of prepuce and gUns penis; congenital phymosis; amputation.—Mr. J. Cooper Forster. The patient was 51 years of age, and had noticed some swelling for ten years. (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Bep.,’ xix, p. 8.) Successful removal of the testes, scrotum, penis and supra-pubic slcin, for epithelial cancer.—Mr. Thomas Annandale records the case (‘Lancet,’ Dec. 12, 1874). Circumcision in the adult.—Mr. Howse having repeatedly met with troublesome oedema of the mucous membrane left near the frtenum in the ordinary operation, has adopted the plan of cutting out a wedge- shaped piece of mucous membrane at the frcenum with a pair of scissors, and then snipping the frienum cleanly away from the glans, thus removing it and the wedge-shaped bit of mucous membrane in one piece together. Retraction on the dorsum should be avoided. (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xviii, 239.) Mr. Furneaux Jordan advocates the following operation for phymosis in adults. It has the merit of giving complete relief, without hindering work and movement. The prepuce, first on one side and then on the other, is divided, skin and lining, by probe-pointed scissors for a quarter of an inch. The prepuce is then partially retracted, exposing a quadrilateral space of mucous membrane, which is divided by a second snip on each side. The prepuce may then be fully retracted, and the incisions will assume a linear shape at right angles to the direction in which they were cut. The incision may be more or less free according to the degree of the phymosis. All that is required in dressing is that the prepuce be kept well retracted by a strip of oiled or wet lint. (‘ Surgical Inquiries,’ p. 22.) Treatment of phymosis by galvanic cautery.—A. Amussat (‘ Gaz. des Hbpitaux,’ Nos. 6 & 8, 1874) has used the galvanic cautery in six cases of phymosis. During the operation the patient usually sits in a reclining chair; children are operated on in bed, under chloroform.