63 intermittent eever. insists plays a very considerable part in its development; that marshy ” Joes not produce intermittent fever, but on y acts as one o the numerous baneful causes which make the constitution less able to resist morbid influence ; and that it will perhaps be more easy to dis- cover the fever germ in the surface of ground that has been lately cleared (defriche) than in the atmosphere of marshes. The ‘British Medical Journal’ (1873, 1, 54) quotes a statement made in the GreviUea (1872, No. 6) that a Dr. Bartlett, of Chicago, had been able to find certain fungi in the bottom of the Mississippi, opposite Keokuk, Iowa, lat. io° 25', in which Salisbury (see Bien. Kep. ’ 1860-70, <54) believed he had discovered the germs of ague. The sender remarks in reference to the plants that “ in the locality 01 their growth they are to be seen in myriads, and near them, even on elevations of over one hundred feet, everybody had the ague. I he cause of this disease seemed pari jpassu with that of the1 plant. Accounts of epidemics of malarial fever, and of various localities m which diseases of this type are common, are contained in the papers given in the bibliography below. _ . Bohn writes (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ vi, 115) on the varieties of ague as it occurs in children. In some cases in which the mother was suffering from the affection, remarkable movements of the foetus in utero proved apparently that it also was affected ; the fact that children are born in a very cachectic state and with enlarged spleens seems, to him, to point to the same occurrence. From 463 cases which he tabulates he concludes that the greatest tendency to ague in children is between the years of 2 and 7, the quotidian being the most frequent type, and the evening the most frequent period of the paroxysms. He discusses, at length, the various symptoms, and describes certain irregular forms of the affection, which were accom- panied by certain unusual symptoms, connected either with lesion of the nervous system, or with catarrh of the mucous membranes of the intestines and lungs. Henoch writes (‘ Berl. Klin. "Woch.,5 1873, 300) in reference to the occurrence of “ Debris intermittens perniciosa” in a child aged nine years. The first paroxysm lasted an hour and a half, the second three hours, during which death by asphyxia seemed to be imminent. Com- pression of the carotids and injection of morphia were employed without success, and the child was then placed under chloroform. The paroxysm rapidly passed off, the cyanosis disappeared, and the child slept. Quinine was afterwards given, and with the exception of one slight attack the paroxysms did not recur. From the result of the treatment, from the occurrence of an exactly similar case a few days later, and from the existence of malarial fever in Berlin at the time, Henoch looks upon the above as a case of pernicious malarial affection, the symptoms being probably due to ansemia of the brain from spasm of the cerebral arteries. Daga (‘ Bull. gen. de Therap.,’ t. 83, p. 454) gives a similar case in a man, set. 35, who had suffered from malarial fever in Algiers. The paroxysms were quotidian, occurring during the night, and aceom-