144 IIEP OUT ON PI? ACTICAL MEDICINE. CornU writes (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1873, 185) on changes in the elastic fibres ot the lung. The patient was a youth, ait. 18, who died with symptoms of gummata of the skull and dura mater, and had gummata of the sternum and broncho-pneumonia. A large portion of the upper and some part of the lower lobe of the left lung were indu- rated, without being completely hepatized. There were nowhere any tubercles or cheesy deposits. On section these portions of lung had the character of advanced lobar catarrhal pneumonia. Microscopic exami- nation in the fresh state showed that most of the alveoli were filled with an exudation composed of pus-corpuscles and more or less granular epithelial cells. The bundles of elastic fibres were thick, rigid, and easily broken. Sections of the hardened lung-tissue only served to prove that the lesion of the fibres, characterised by their swollen appear- ance, their altered refraction, their hardness and friability, coincided in this case with a retrogressive period of the catarrhal pneumonia and a partial atrophy of the capillary vessels. Friedlander, ‘ Untersuchungen liber Lungen-entziindung/ Berlin, 1873, pp. 30 (with a plate). Sturges, “ The Pathology of the Pneumonic Lung,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev./ 1873, April. Moxon, “Acute Interstitial Pneumonia or Purulent Inflammation of the Lymphatics of the Lung,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiv, 20. Goodhart, “Acute Interstitial Pneumonia,” ih., xxv, 33. Cersoy, “ Pneumonie chez une huveuse d’Eau- de-vie, traitement par l’alcool et l’extrait de quinquina, guerison,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Therap.,” t. 85, p 84. Skoda, “ Ueber Stuhlverstopfung bei Pneumonie,” ‘Allg. Wien. Med. Ztng./ 1873, 516. Beddoe, “ Incipient Pneumonia resolving into a copious Eruption of Herpetic Vesicles,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1873, i, 910. Thompson, “ Case of Pneu- monia, Delirium Tremens, Rupture of the Recti Muscles, Atrophy of one Kidney and Hypertrophy of the other” (man, set. 40), ‘Med. Times and Gaz./ 1874, i, 476. Crocq, “ Autopsie d’ un Homme de 58 ans, decede a la suite de Pneumonie,” ‘ Presse Mod. Beige/ 1874, 239. Id., “ Du traitement de la Pneumonie, et de la metliode cxpectante, ses consequences” (two cases), ib., 175. See, “Des differentcs modes de traitement de la Pneumonie,” ‘ Union Mod./ xv, 478, &c. Lavit, “ Deux Observations de Fibvrcs catarrhales et malignes, l’une forme cerebrale, l’autre a forme pneumo- nique,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop./ 1873, 338. Brown Induration and SypertrojjJiy. J. Orth (“ Zur Kenntniss der braunen Induration der Lunge,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lviii, 126) found in a case which presented the so- called brown induration of the lungs after mitral insufficiency, that the capillaries, and even vessels of a larger calibre, were filled with the same more or less brown pigment. It occurred in the interstitial tissue and in the cavities of several alveoli, within large nucleated cells (lung-epithelium). Injection of a pulmonary artery did not pass into several of these pigment-containing vessels, whether in the lung- tissue or in the capillary loops of the alveoli. The pigment itself ex- isted partly as amorphous granules and flakes, partly as rouudish bodies, which on the addition of potash swelled up, took on a yellowish colour, and looked like altered blood-cells. As in some sort compensating for the hindrance to the circulation caused by this plugging, were found long unbranching vessels, which seemed to occupy by preference spots in which a large number of capillaries had been rendered impervious, partly in the larger septa, partly in the walls of the alveoli . I lie con- dition described supports the older view, according to which, besides