16 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Amvial Ileat.—Riegel,1 2 from experiments made on rabbits and dogs wmdi had been dosed with woorara till voluntary movement was just lost and then placed in a warm chamber raised to the temperature of their 0 y, has been able to corroborate the statement made by Ackermann, that a remarkable diminution in the temperature of the body occurred when the frequency of the artificial respirations was increased. The temperature was taken in the rectum and in the inferior vena cava, the depth of the artificial respiration remaining always the same. Albert and Strieker,3 in their researches on the temperature of the heart and lungs, used two thermometers, one of which was embedded in the substance of the muscular tissue, whilst the other was made to penetrate into the cavity of the ventricle. They found that in the case of the left ventricle the former was from 07 to 07 C. higher than that of the latter, whilst in the case of the right ventricle the difference was much less expressed. A thermometer introduced through the jugular vein into the right ventricle showed that the blood in the right ventricle was warmest near the apex, and warmer everywhere than that of the right auricle, whilst this again was warmer than that of the superior vena cava. They attribute the increased temperature of the blood in the ventricle to the admixture of the blood of the coronary vein which has circulated through the tissue of the heart. They find further that the blood is somewhat cooled in passing through the lungs, so that the blood of the left side of the heart is cooler than that of the right. Bernard 3 rejects the view of Korner and Heidenhain that the difference between the temperature of the right and left sides of the heart is due to the proximity of the right ventricle to the abdominal organs, on the ground that Tiering has found that in a case of ectopia cordis the tem- perature of the right ventricle, even in this malformation, is higher than that of the left. Weir Mitchell,4 in a paper on the influence of nerve lesions upon temperature, confirms Waller’s views by showing that cold applied to the ulnar nerve in its course produces severe pain and final loss of feeling and of motion in the parts to which the ulnar nerve is distributed. He further shows that after section of a main nerve the parts which it innervates rise in temperature, but apparently lose heat and become permanently cooler after the lapse of weeks or months. When a nerve has been slightly cooled, as in the first stage of the freezing process, the temperature of the tissues related to its terminal filaments falls somewhat, but as the nerve ceases to be painfully affected and amesthesia comes on the included vaso-motor nerves also cease to be irritated, and under this paralytic influence the heat rises in the ulnar palm from two to four degrees, while the part becomes red and swollen. From various experiments Dr. Weir Mitchell has satisfied himself that the influence of the nerves in causing varia- tions of temperature in the parts to which they are distributed is due, not to any direct influence ol the nerves on the tissues, but to varia- tions in the size of the vessels and consequent supply of blood, caused 1 ‘Virchow’s Arcliiv,5 1874, B. lix, p. 396. 2 * Wiener Med. Jahrbucher,’ 1873. 3 ‘Revue Scientif.,’ abst. iu ‘ Humphry and Turner’s Journ. of Anat.,’ 1874) p.431. 4 ‘Archives of Scientific and Practical Med.,’ 1873, No. 4, p. 351.