491 COMPRESSED AIR. grain without injury ; and (2) since ^th grain in toto induces no toxic symptoms, in severe cases the dose may he increased to -j2nd gram. (3.) The induction of a reduction of temperature demands larger doses than those which produce pulse-slowing. In typhus this latter may be brought about by ^-th grain, and after a dose of 2 ^nd.gram the pulse became irregular. (4.) Doses of ^-nd—^5th gram in the aggregate induce dilation of the pupils, disordered vision, and cerebral symptoms ; and doses of £th grain produce nausea. (f) The increased bodily temperature of febrile diseases is more readily lowered by the drug (in quantities of —srVnd §rain) than the normal temperature of the body. In order to lower the febrile temperature to the normal jig-th to J(jth grain of digitalin is required to be administered. (6.) Digitalin does not increase the secretion of urine, but often dimin- ishes it. Homolle’s digitalin produced effects as follows: (1.) Where there is an absence of pyrexia, in cardiac organic disease g^nd—and even £th grain, is required to induce a diminution in the frequency of the cardiac contractions; whilst with a pyrexial state a larger dose, £th to 1-th grain, is needed to produce the same effect. In these cases the pulse becomes hard, full, slow, and with large doses at last irregular, but never small. Irregularity and retardation of the pulse may occur so late as 10 or 15 days after the suspension of the medicament. (2.) The effect of Homolle’s digitalin on nervous palpitations is much less than that of the crystallized article. (3.) Much larger doses (| to grain) are required to reduce the febrile temperature than to slow the heart. Nausea and bilious vomiting were the only signs of digitalin- intoxication produced; collapse, &c., was never observed. (4.) In this absence of digitalinin-toxication and in the ease with which it is dis- pensed lie its advantages over the direct administration of the plant. (5.) But digitalin is a much less energetic reducer of temperature than digitalis. (6.) Homolle’s digitalin agrees in its therapeutical effects with crystallised digitalin, but the dose is twice or thrice as great. (7.) Diminution of the quantity of urine is often observed to have increased after the administration of digitalin. (8.) As an antipyretic and retarder of the circulation both kinds of digitalin are equally useful, and may be substituted for digitalis itself. The grape cure.—Dr. T. H. Knautke,1 of Meran, Tyrol, describes in full the so-called grape cure, now extensively practised in wine-growing countries for the alleviation of tuberculous and other cachectic dis- orders. He enters fully into the chemistry of the grape, its nutritive value, physiological and therapeutical actions, and describes the mode in which the fresh grape is taken in quantities varying from three to eight pounds daily as a remedial agent. He remarks that much of the good attributed to the so-called grape cure may in reality be ascribed to pure air and hygiene. Treatment by compressed air.—Dr. von Liebig,2 of Beickenholt, gives an interesting account of his method of treatment by means of com- 1 * Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ clviii, p. 167. 2 ‘Aerzt. Intel.,’ Bl. 1869, p. 161.