283 EXCISION OP TARSUS, ETC. with which the bones can be turned outwards after division of the internal malleolus than inwards. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans., lvu, 137.) Excision of the astragalus and os calcis. Mr. Humphry details a case admitted into the Sussex County Hospital The patient was a boy £et. 0. On proceeding to remove the os calcis, the astragalus was also^ound to be diseased and both were removed. The two malleoli not removed. The boy recovered and had a strong, useful toot, jodcut from a photograph is given. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Hep., x, were A woodcut o h h \ , Caries of os calcis; excision.—Mr. Tyrrell records a case, the patient being an adult woman. An excellent recovery followed. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ August, 1874.) Excision of the anterior tarsus and base of the metatarsus a new operation.—hr. P. H. Watson performed this operation first of all in the case of a lad, set. 19. He was. suffering from spontaneous sub- acute disease, involving the articulations chiefly upon the inner side of the foot, between the cuneiform bones and metatarsal bones, but ac- companied by symptoms indicative of involvement of the external tarso-metatarsal joints and of the scaphoid and cuneiform bones in a minor degree. He had improved for a time under treatment. Ampu- tation seemed too severe a measure. It was obvious that all the disease which required removal was situated between the base of the metatarsus in front and the astragalus and os calcis behind, and that the excision of such a section of the hard structures forming the skeleton of the foot as was bounded by the two'transverse lines of Chopart’s line of amputation behind and Hey’s in front would secure the fulfilment of every requisite for sound recovery in so far as the removal of all actually existing osseous disease and all tension of the articulations were concerned. Various possibilities rendering success uncertain are discussed. The operation was effected by making an incision on the outer and inner sides of the foot between three and four inches in length • that upon the outer side extending from the centre of the outer margin of the plantar surface of the os calcis as far as the middle of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, that upon the inner side of the foot from the neck of the astragalus to the middle of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe. The soft parts were then carefully dis- sected off the dorsal and plantar surfaces of the tarsus from the outer and inner sides, until the whole extent of osseous tissues to be removed was deprived of its soft coverings. In effecting this the thumb of the left hand formed the guide to the point and edge of the knife in keep- ing close to the surface of the bones, so as to avoid any interference with the important structures contained in the soft parts. A curved probe-pointed bistoury, inserted between the soft parts and bones, was then carried across the line of articulation, between the astragalus and scaphoid and os calcis and cuboid bones, first upon the dorsal and then upon the plantar surface, so as to open up these joints. A little further use of the knife completed the severance of the bones pos- teriorly. A keyhole saw was now introduced between the plantar soft parts and the shafts of the metatarsal bones, which were then cut through, the handle of a pair of bone forceps being inserted between