320 REPORT ON SURGERY. JST°ao method for the detection and removal of vesical calculi.—Mr. \V\ D. Napier advocates the use of a sound coated with black pigment produced by its momentary immersion in a weak solution of nitrate of silver. Contact with a calculus produces scratches on the surface. The instrument is called “ the Calculus Detector.” In the removal of calculus fragments, be uses an instrument consisting of a soft india- rubber tube, terminating at one extremity in a funnel-shaped orifice greatly resembling in form the ordinary convolvulus flower, and capable of containing a calculus or portions of calculus of considerable dimensions. It is introduced closed up by a cocoa-butter point, through a silver canula. When pushed on into the bladder it expands, the cocoa-butter point dissolves, and any fragment, &c., gravitates into its cavity and it is then withdrawn, closing as it is removed and grasping its contents firmly. It may also be used as a self-retaining catheter. (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ June 14, 1873.) Foreign body in the bladder.—Mr. Lund records the case of a man, set. 33, who passed a No. 3 flexible bougie into his bladder, the ivory knob remaining in his hand. Mr. Lund in a little while split the stricture with Holt’s dilator, and then after some trouble seized the bougie with a lithotrite and drew it out. Lor three days the patient did well, but then severe urethral fever set in and went on to the for- mation of pysemic abscesses. After a serious illness, prolonged through five months, the patient recovered with the stricture cured. Mr. Lund remarks at length on the nature of the illness. (‘ Liverpool and Man- chester Med. and Surg. Kep., Oct. 1873, 193.) Mr. Cadge records a case in which he removed portions of a stearine candle from the male bladder some seven months after being passed along the urethra. After many trials he succeeded in catching the wick, &c., with a lithotrite and removing it. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 15, 1873.) Mr. Stokes records a case of removal of a gum-elastic catheter from the bladder by median lithotomy. Recovery. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1873.) A case of removal of a flexible catheter from the bladder by litho- tomy was under the care of Mr. Polker, in the North Staffordshire Infirmary. The catheter, No. 3, had slipped into the bladder a year previously. The urine became offensive, &c. A large mass was found in the bladder. The ivory part of the catheter had slipped off. There was much phosphatic matter. The patient, a man, set. 23, recovered well. (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 18, 1873.) Impacted vesical calculus ; lithotomy ; reopening ofivound; recovery.— Surgeon-Major J. H. Porter relates the case of a man, set. 24, on whom he operated for calculus. It was found to be impacted, and no effort would dislodge it. A large portion was removed. Thirteen days later, the wound was reopened and more removed, and in another forty- eight hours the remainder was removed. He suffered little from these repeated operations. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 31, 1874.) Median lithotomy— Mr. Cadge considers that median lithotomy is not applicable to very young subjects; it is objectionable in all cases in which the stone is of considei’able size; it has its proper sphere,