ANEURISM—LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. m Aneurism of the external iliac artery cured by jive hours continuous pressure icith Lister s abdominal tourniquet applied on the abdominal aorta while the patient ivas under the influence of ether. Mr. G. G. Wheelhouse records the case. At the end of the five hours the patient was “ black ” in both limbs and “blue ” as far as the tourniquet. A quarter of an hour was taken in relaxing the pressure. The tumour was found tq have ceased to pulsate and to be firm and hard. (c Clm. Soc. Trans.,’vii, p. 51.) Ligature of the external iliac for femoral aneurism.—A successful case in which a ligature of catgut was used and the wound treated anti- septically, under the care of Mr. Tibbits, is recorded in the ‘ Lancet, Oct. 31, 1874. A successful case of ligature (in the ordinary way) is also recorded by Mr. Walmsley (‘Lancet,’ Nov. 28, 1874). Another successful case in a negro, aged 35) un(fer the care of Mr. G\ C. Sanders, is recorded in the ‘ Lancet,’ July 25, 1874. A case of femoral aneurism, treated by ligature of the iliac, in which death occurred four days later from gangrene of the limb, is recorded by Mr. Walter (‘St. Geo. Hosp. Rep.,’ vi, p. 185). A successful case in a half-caste, aged 27, under the care of Mr. Johnson Smith, is recorded in the ‘Lancet,’ June 20, 1874. A case in a man, aged 28, under the care of Mr. Mac Cormac, is recorded in the‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Feb. 8, 1873. Digital compression and flexion of the thigh had failed, and the aneurism was spreading. The patient recovered well. Aneurism of common femoral; ligature of the external iliac ; secondary haemorrhage ; death.—The case was under the care of Mr. White, at Nottingham. The artery was secured with a double strand of car- bolised catgut and the wound dressed with carbolised oil. On the sixth day a quantity of grumous discharge occurred from the wound and on the eighth there was considerable secondary haemorrhage, which was stopped by pressure, but the patient sank. The artery was found to have given way at the seat of ligature, the proximal end being closed partially by clot. There was a large clot external to the vessel. Femoral aneurism closely simulating malignant disease.—A mau, sot. 37, came under the care of Mr. Cloag on account of a tumour in right femoral region. The skin was tense and shiny. No bruit could be detected, nor pulsation. There was great pain and the tumour steadily increased. The man died and an aneurism which had become diffused was found in Scarpa’s triangle. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ ’ May 24, 1873.) Aneurism in the groin and ham of the same side ; ligature of the external iliac artery ; gangrene ; amputation of the thigh; recovery.—Dr. Diver relates the case of a man, aged 35, who came under his care for aneurism in the popliteal space .and in the groin of the right side. The external iliac artery was tied. Forty-eight hours later gangrene commenced in the foot and very slowly advanced until a line of demarcation formed without any constitutional disturbance. On the twenty-first day the pulse suddenly rose to 1440 and the temperature to 105'2°. Amputation was performed through the lower third of the thigh ten days later. The man recovered well. (‘ Lancet ’ April u, 1874 ; ‘Brit, Med. Journ.,’ July n, 1874.)