332 REPORT ON SURGERY. coitus. No calculus could be found in the bladder. After the removal of the lithotrite used in the examination, the patient had an attack of spasm, passed urine, and discharged therewith some small white masses. These were examined by M. Robin, who found them to be about o-o8 of an inch in diameter, opaline, and translucent; when treated with acetic acid they became translucent, and showed an enor- mous number of encapsuled spermatozoids. T,he left vesicula seminalis on examination per rectum, was found to be hard and swollen, and the contact of the finger produced severe pain and spasmodic contraction. The introduction of the lithotrite had led to theexpulsion ofthe masses through the ejaculatory duct. After their removal the patient felt quite well. Treatment of urethral fistula hy excision of a portion of the perinceum. ■—It sometimes occurs, in cases of urethral stricture complicated with fistula, that, after dilatation of the stricture, the fistula does not heal, but becomes fixed by hard cicatricial tissue to the urethra. In such cases Voillemier (‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ June 12 to 19, 1874) recommends the excision of a portion of the perimeum. He first accustoms the bladder to the constant presence of a catheter, and then operates in thefollowing manner. The patient, being narcotised, is placed in the position for lithotomy, and the catheter and scrotum are held by an assistant. A probe is now passed into the fistulous opening, and two semi-elliptical incisions are made in the perinaeum, so as to cir- cumscribe a portion of integument from 2 to inches long and if inch wide. The dissection is now carefully carried in the direction of the middle line as far as the urethra, and the flap of skin is removed. The patulous opening in the urethra presents pale granulations, which are treated with nitrate of silver. The wound is then well cleaned and filled with dry charpie, over which a T bandage is applied. The dressing is allowed to remain four or six days; after which it is renewed daily. Healing is generally complete at the end of a month, and leaves a linear cicatrix. During the whole time, an elastic catheter is retained in the bladder. Voillemier has operated on eleven patients in this way, the result being always good. In one case, however, the cicatrix did not form in the ordinary way, but the edges of the skin did not unite, and a broad deep scar was left, at the bottom of which was the cicatrised urethra. Latent gonorrhoea.—Dr. Noeggerath, of New York, writes on latent gonorrhoea in the female (essay published in German in Bonn). He believes there is a fungus peculiar to gonorrhoeal pus and gleet. The following statements express the conclusions at which he has arrived. Gonorrhoea in man, as in woman, does, as a rule, last for the whole life, despite apparent cure. There is a latent gonorrhoea in man as well as in woman. Latent gonorrhoea in man, as well as in woman, may pro- duce, in a hitherto healthy individual, either a latent gonorrhoea or the symptoms of acute gonorrhoea. Latent gonorrhoea in a woman mani- fests itself in the course of time by acute or chronic or recurring peri- metritis or ovaritis, and as catarrh of particular portions of the genital mucous membrane. AVives of men who at any period ot theii lives have had gonorrhoea are, as a rule, sterile. Those who become pregnant,