CEREBUO-SPiNAL MENINGITIS. 61 history of the epidemic of dengue in Madras in 1872. After touching on the historical part of the subject, he states that the prevalence of the affection was much greater than that of any other epidemic, for many years, in the district of Madras with which he was connected, especially during the months of August, September, and October. The oldest patient was about 80 years of age, the youngest about two months. Males and females fell ill in about equal numbers; all ranks were alike attacked. The essential symptoms observed in the last epidemic were pyrexia of a continued type and short duration, very often exhibiting a remittent or intermittent type; pain, swell- ing, and redness of the joints, and in severe cases pain in the muscles and bones; an eruption, not invariably present, resembling several of the exanthematic type, seen mainly on the face, neck, chest, and hands, having a duration of from 12 to 72 hours, followed always by desqua- mation; and headache, not always present. The sequelae were found to be convulsions in children, and in a few cases in adults; permanent pain, stiffness and swelling of the joints, pericarditis, general paralysis and amaurosis in one case, and amaurosis in two others ; diarrhoea and dysentery, debility, conjunctivitis, derangement of the brain, abortion. In some few cases there was a relapse after a complete apyretic in- terval, extending sometimes to many months. The writer considers the period of incubation to be from three to five days. “ The exciting cause is a specific contagion propagated by human intercourse.” The paper concludes with some remarks on its diagnosis and treatment. Martialis, “La Dengue d’apres les documents Anglais de Madras et de Calcutta, et lesobservations recueillies dans les possessions Fran9aises de l’Inde,” ‘Arch, de Med. Uav.,’ xxi, 21. It. T. Lyons, “Dengue Fever” (correction of statement made by Dr. Smart), ‘Lancet,’ 1873, ii, 893. Manson, “The Sequelae of Dengue Fever,” ib., ib., 866. A. Duez, “La dengue ou Abouralcab” (epidemic at Djeddah), ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ i873, 501. Yauvray, “Contributions a la Geographie Medicale; Port Said” (for an account of the epidemic of Dengue in 1S71, see p. 80 of (he paper), ‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xx, 161. Cotholendy, “Relation de l’epidemie de Dengue qui a regne a Saint-Denis (Reunion) pendant les mois de Fevrier, Mars, Avril, et Mai, 1873,” ib., ib., 190. F. Labadie-Lagrave, “ Dengue ou Fievre eruptive’Epidemique de l’Inde,” ‘ Gaz. hebd.,’ 1873, 161. “ De le Dengue Fever et l’epidemie qui regne actuellement dans l’Inde,” ‘ Union Med.,’ xvi, 358. Slaughter, “On Dengue,” ‘Army Med. Rep.’ for 1872, xiv, 432. Cerebrospinal Meningitis. _ E. Kotsonopulos (“ Beitrage zu epidemischen Cerebro-spinal Me- ningitis,” ‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ lviii, 51) gives an account of two small epidemics of the affection in Nauplia, since his account of the one occurring in 1869 (see last Beport, p. 44). In the first there were seven cases, and in the second four, the histories of which he gives, with the autopsies of four fatal cases. The symptoms were similar to those noticed in the epidemic of 1869. Three only recovered. In one only of the fatal cases examined was there hyperaemia of the membranes of the brain and cord; in the others there was some exudation present. At the commencement of his paper he gives some further particulars of the thirty-seven cases which recovered in the first epidemic and have been watched by him in the interval. Thirty made a complete