POISONS. 461 poison accumulates iu the blood aud exercises its lethal action; while the quantity in actual circulation may be reduced to an infinitesimal amount and deprived of all power for evil if the excretion can keep pace with or go on more rapidly than the absorption. Thus it is that curare kills an animal when introduced into a wound; for the poison is absorbed from the wound more rapidly than it can be excreted by the kidneys. If placed in the stomach curare has usually no apparent action, for it is excreted in the urine as quickly as it is absorbed by the gastric walls. But if absorption be quickened by increasing the dose and giving it on an empty stomach, curare will have the same effect as when it is placed in a wound. A like result is obtained by arresting its excretion, either by ligaturing the renal vessels or extir- pating the kidneys. Snake-venom is also poisonous when absorbed by the mucous membrane of the stomach. When we wish to prevent the accumulation of a poison in the blood, and thus arrest its action, we must either lessen its absorption, quicken its excretion, or combine the two means. In the case of snake- poisoning, as in curare poisoning, the former of these is sufficient; and all the bad effects of the introduction of the poison into a wound may be prevented by applying a ligature between the wound and the heart, and only loosening the bandage occasionally for an instant or two at a time. In this way, only a little of the poison is absorbed each time the ligature is slackened, and this is excreted by the kidneys before another quantity is absorbed. If the poison can b e removed from the wound itself by other means, the danger it causes will be sooner over. Our power to quicken excretion is, in most cases, less than to retard absorption; aud it is therefoi’e on the latter that we mainly rely in cases of poisoning in general, as well as snake-bites in particular. The various means of mechanically arresting the introduction of the virus need not be discussed here; its excretion or removal from the organism will alone be dwelt upon. Now, the action of the poison may be of two kinds: i. It may resemble curare in destroying the power of the nervous system so long as it is present in the blood, but leaving it in a condition to resume its functions as soon as the poison has been removed. 2. Its action may be identical with, or similar to, that of a ferment, decomposing or altering the nervous or muscular tissues in situ, and thus rendering them utterly, incapable of ever again performing their functions. If the action of the poison is of the latter kind, no treatment can be expected to be of any avail if the dose has been large; but if it is of the former, we may still enter- tain a reasonable hope of averting a fatal result, even when the dose of venom has been large. By means of artificial respiration the authors have been enabled to prolong the life of snake-poisoned animals for several hours, but they have not been able to maintain respiration sufficiently long to show whether the muscular and nervous systems regain their function after the excretion of the poison had proceeded far enough. Indeed, they are by no means confident that death may be averted by the combined use of artificial respiration and transfusion, which latter remedy suggests itself as a means of getting