513 BISULPHIDE OF CARBON. evidence shows, however, that with good arrangements there is no danger in the industrial processes which give rise to disengagement ot carbonic acid. . . Mixture of carbonic acid and other gases.—In certain cases carbonic acid is mixed with other gases ; this is the gas in churchyard and cemetery vaults, where the gases disengaged are carbonic acid, often in very great quantity, ammonia, and sulphide of ammonium ; the less advanced the process of decomposition of the body, the larger relatively is the amount of H2S. That there are also other matters in the air of burial vaults is not doubtful, but what these are is not known. The poisonous effects produced by this atmosphere are those of carbonic acid. When grave-diggers are not exposed to the dangers of an acute intoxication with carbonic acid, their calling is not, according to Hirt, in any Way hurtful; the yearly annual mortality is only 17 per thousand, and the mean duration of life is at least 58—60 years (!). Well-sinkers are, as is well known, also exposed to the dangers of acute carbonic acid poisoning, but in this case also Hirt denies that there is any chronic poisoning from constant inhalation of small quantities of the gas. Sulphioretted hydrogen.—Hirt describes the acute H2S poisoning in the same way as previous writers. With regard to the vexed question of the liability of men who work amidst large quantities of H2S gas to suffer from chronic poisoning, he appears to have no doubt of its occur- rence. “ The symptoms of chronic H2S poisoning,” he says, “ consist chiefly in general weakness, depression, and generally perfect anorexia, which is combined with the feeling of a weight on the stomach ; the tongue is furred; the mucous membrane of the mouth and face is pale; the breath is not always offensive ; the pulse has a tendency to be slow. In some few cases there is a furunculoid skin eruption on several parts of the body, which forms nodules which suppurate. Sometimes, however, he says the symptoms show more particularly poisonous action on the intestines; there is vertigo, headache, nausea, and diarrhoea, followed by gradual emaciation and then by head symptoms, so that the case “ resembles one of very slow running typhus.” Hirt notices, however, that there are great individual differences ; some men are little or not at all affected, others greatly so, and in some the susceptibility increases with custom. Bisulphide of carbon.—This substance, obtained by passing sulphur fumes over burning coal and subsequent distillation, is now much used in commerce in consequence of its solvent effects on india rubber and some other resins. On animals its vapour exerts poisonous effects, first exciting and then soon paralysing the nerves of respiration and circulation. In men its acute effects are seldom seen, on account of the small quantity inhaled, but it produces chronic poisoning in some workmen. The symptoms of this are described by Hirt, after Delpech, as mainly embraced in two periods of excitement and collapse; the first period begins with evening headache, pain in the limbs, and formi- cation ; sometimes there is intellectual excitement and exaltation • there are often cramps, difficulty of breathing, and increased frequency of the heart. The sulphide can be smelt in the urine. After some 33