379 NEW INSTRUMENTS, ETC. Wocli.,’ Nr. 2, 1868) ; Tolmantscliew, one case in typhus (£ Jahrb. f. Ivinderheilk.,’ p. 219, 1869 ; (‘ Zehend. Klin. Monatsbl.,’ x, p. 346). Glaucoma.—L. Bydel contributes a paper on this subject. He details a case in which a man who had suffered from symptoms of glau- coma for three weeks, suddenly lost the sight completely in one night. He explains this as due to increase of pressure shutting off arterial supply and paralysing the retina. He agrees with Graefe that the blindness in acute glaucoma is due chiefly to ischaemic paralysis of the retina. The author thinks the same explanation applies to variations in chronic glaucoma. Cases of deep excavation with slight defect of sight are wholly exceptional, but possibly analogous to cases in which the brain becomes adapted to slow pressure. He discusses the question of concentric narrowing of the field. The defect beginning in the ends of the nerves at the outer half of the retina he explains by the distri- bution of the vessels and the position of the disc. The inner half of the retina is more richly supplied with blood than the outer, and the vessels to the outer half have a longer course. He quotes Poiseville’s laws as to the influence of the length and size of vessels on the quantity of blood passing through them. For the exceptional cases of glaucoma in which the temporal side of the field fails first, he has no explanation to offer. In regard to the subjective sensations of light of which amau- rotic, glaucomatous patients complain, he remarks on the probability of their being explained by oscillations in the amount of blood-supply. At one time there is less pressure, as we know by the tension, more blood is supplied, and this irritates the nerve-fibres. They may at the same time be quite unaffected by rays of light falling on them. He alludes, in passing, to the great changes which occur in the tension of glaucomatous eyes even within a few hours. (Graefe’s £Archiv f. Opht.,’ 18 B., Abt. 1.) Smoked glass preferable to Hue glass in order to protect the eye from too strong sunlight.—Dr. Dobrowolski advocates the use of smoked glass instead of glass of a blue colour in order to relieve the eye from the glare of strong light, because the smoked glass diminishes the intensity of all the colours ; whereas the blue glass leaves the eye exposed to the blue rays without any protection. The blue would relieve an eye sensi- tive to yellow and green, or exposed to yellow and green rays, but does not affect the red, blue, and violet rays. The smoked glass, on the con- trary, diminishes the intensity of colour of all the rays. Any one ac- customed to wear blue glasses cannot leave them off easily. (‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ Sept., Oct. 1873, p. 156.) Inoculation in cases of pannus.—A full notice of a paper bv Dr Briere (in the £Bull. de Ther. Med. Chir.,’ 1873, 15 Sept.) will be found m the ‘Annales d’Oculistique,’ Sept., Oct. 1873, p. 215). Leptothrix in the upper canaliculus.—Dr. Gruening records a case (£ Arch, of Ophth. and Otol.,’ vol. iii, No. 1, p. 17). Neio instruments.—Dr. Warlomont figures and describes (‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ Nov., Dec. 1873). v (0 A oystotome with concealed lari. After the introduction of the cystotome the barb is made to project from one side by pressure on a small lever-handle, J 1