74 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Fleck writes (ib., 25) in reference to the same sort of occurrence in a locality lie had occasion to investigate, where the excrement was col- lected behind the bouse, in excavations in the sandstone, the porous nature ol which is well known. From these it was used as manure for the fields, which lay higher than the town. Analysis of the water in the drinking troughs, from which, probably, the infection first came, showed it contained a larger amount of ammonia and organic matter than did the original sources from which it was conveyed. It was proved also to contain certain elements of decomposition from which the original water was free. There must, therefore, have been a filtration of sewage water into the conveying channels (wooden tubes). Wolfsteiner (‘ Miinchen ein Typhusheerd,’ Munich, 1873, pp. 40) insists that the prevalence of typhoid in Munich is due to the presence of excrementitious matters in the soil, and consequent poison- ing of the drinking-water. A. Hagler (“ Beitrag zur Aetiologie des Typhus und zur Trinkwasserlehre,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ xi, 237) writes on the small epidemic of typhoid in the summer of 1872 in the village of Lausen (Canton Bale), which contains about 90 houses and 780 inhabitants, and, in spite of typhoid epidemics in its immediate neighbourhood, had managed to escape since the year 1814. The soil consists of limestone boulders and loam ; the soil-water stood at varying heights, according to the rainfall. The drinking-water was brought from a spring above the village into four cisterns in such a way that any contamination between the two was, to all intents, impossible. Only six houses, five at the four corners of the village, and a paper mill, pumped their water from springs of their own. On the first of June a case of typhoid, the origin of which is doubtful, occurred in a house above the town, followed by three cases in the same house in the course of the succeed- ing weeks. On the 7th August ten persons were attacked suddenly in the village itself, and during the next nine days 47, i.e. 7 per cent, of the whole population. The disease attacked rich and poor alike, pretty regularly over the whole village, but never reached those who drew their water supply from their own wells, till, towards the end of the epidemic, when more than a hundred persons had suffered, two workmen were seized who lived in the houses which possessed their own pumps, but worked in the village, and drank from the common spring. So far it seems most probable that this spring was poisoned originally by the first typhoid patient, and the paper contains facts which tend very much to support this theory. Of the whole number (130) attacked, eight died. Children who in the hot weather drank large quantities of water suffered most severely. The commencement of the affection was marked almost constantly by pain in the neck ; diarrhoea was often absent; roseola was present in the large majority of cases, and enlarge- ment of the spleen almost always. The treatment consisted mainly m calomel given in purgative doses, cold baths ol 16 220 R. for a period of 10 to 15 minutes, and in cases of great pyrexia quinine and digitalis. The writer lays some stress on the point that, though the drinking-water for many years had been liable to contamination from various sewage influences, no case of typhoid had occurred till the