ilfifiOUT ON SURGERY. ZVl In the summer of 1873 Billroth operated by Esmarch's method in fourteen cases, the results of which were so satisfactory as to lead him to strongly recommend the procedure. (‘ Wiener Medizinisclie Wochen- schrift,’ No. 29, 1873.) The cases were two operations for necrosis of the tibia, three resections of the bones of the foot, two resections of the elbow-joint, two amputations by Chopart’s method, four amputations and one disarticulation of the femur. In twelve cases the method was completely successful; in two it was less effective. In one of these cases perfect compression of the popliteal vessels was prevented by a cicatrix in that region. The other was a case of dis- articulation at the hip-joint on account of caries, in a patient who had already undergone amputation for the same disease. The stump was bandaged, and the india-rubber tubing was applied obliquely from the perinaeum to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The aorta was also compressed, and the elastic ring much diminished the escape of blood. Of the fourteen patients eleven recovered. The patient whose femur was removed at the hip-joint died ten hours after the operation, and two women died after amputation of the thigh, the operation having been performed in one on account of gangrene of the leg following injury of the vessels in the extension of an angular ankylosis of the knee, and in the other for pulsating osteosarcoma of the tibia. Billroth suggests, a propos of the former case, that it would be prudent in similar instances merely to apply the elastic tubing and not to bandage the limb, so as to avoid the risk of forcing septic matter into the general circulation. Volkmann (c Centralblatt fur Chirurgie,’ No. 5, 1874) has applied Esmarch’s method in three cases of disarticulation at the hip-joint. After the leg had been completely bandaged the india-rubber ring was applied obliquely outwards from the femoro-scrotal commissure in the direction of Poupart’s ligament, and fixed by a band or by the hands of an assistant, so that it could not slip after the division ot the muscles. In the operation, after the formation of a skin-flap, the muscular structure was cut through by a circular incision, the femur was sawn through, the vessels tied (the large ones before the removal of the ring), and the head of the femur was removed, the subperiosteal process being followed as much as possible. One patient, a child, operated, on for disease, recovered. The second, a large muscular man, whose limb had been injured on a railway, died of shock ; the third, a man, set. 70, operated on for myxofibroma, died on the fourth day from chloroform poisoning. In all the cases the loss of blood was small, not exceeding respectively one, three, and five ounces. Dr. Arthur Menzel, of Trieste, employed this method in the removal of a sarcomatous tumour, as large as a child’s head, from the inner side of the thigh of a man, set. 65. The whole limb was bandaged to above the tumour, and the upper part of the thigh was surrounded by four turns of india-rubber tubing. The tumour was now laid bare; it belonged to the soft parts, and was partially adherent to the muscles. The femoral artery and vein and the saphenous nerve ran through the tumour from one end to tie other, end tie vessels lad to be tied Tie operation occupied three fourths of an lour, tie time being clietly