THE MECHANISM OE LABOUR. 42 7 Feb. 1874, a case of twins with double placenta praevia (partial) and both children presenting transversely. The same patient had aborted from typhoid fever in a previous pregnancy. (‘ Obst. Journal, 1874.) Dr. Underhill related to the Obstetrical Society of Edinburgh a case of spurious pregnancy and labour in a woman aged 23. (‘Obst. Journal, 1874.) Dr. Ofervis read a paper (‘ Obst. Soc. Trans.,’ 1874) 011 retroversion of the gravid uterus. He related the particulars ot two fatal cases, as also of a third which only just escaped being fatal. Dryness of the skin was a prominent symptom in all the cases, and absence of any head symptoms. In the first case miscarriage occurred a few hours after reposition of the uterus, and death on the following day; com- plete retention had existed for three or four days. In the second case, retroversion with retention had been present for a fortnight; six pints of extremely offensive bloody urine were drawn off; death ensued the day following reposition of the uterus. In the third case, retroversion probably took place three weeks before with retention more or less complete, micturition only being accomplished with much difficulty and straining in small quantities at a time ; three quarts of urine were drawn off and the uterus replaced in the knee-shoulder position; in- ability to retain the urine persisted for ten days, but the patient ultimately did well. Dr. Playfair relates (‘ Obstetrical Journal,’ June, 1874) a case of re- troflexion of the gravid uterus replaced by the wearing of an air pessary. Dr. P. Muller writes on the treatment of retroversion of the gravid uterus (‘Beitr. zur Gfeburtshulfe und Gryuakologie,’ iii, r, 1874). Dr. Moldenhauer communicates (‘Archiv f. Gfynak.,’ vi, 1, 1874) a case of total gangrenous exfoliation of the mucous membrane of the bladder, through long-standing retroflexion of the gravid uterus. It occurred in a woman, aged 33, who had had seven labours at term and one miscarriage. The woman was sent into hospital about six weeks after symptoms of incarceration set in; reposition succeeded; but the woman died after the delivery of a foetus 8^ inches long. On opening the bladder, a greyish-yellow sac, the size of a child’s head was seen ; this was the necrosed and exfoliated mucous membrane together with a part of the muscular coat. Dr. S. Brandeis, of Louisville, reports (‘ Archiv f. Grynak.,’ vi, 1, 1874) a case of exfoliation of the mucous membrane of the bladder in retroflexion of the gravid uterus. A multipara had suffered for some days from retention of urine, which was relieved by the catheter. At first the enlarged retroflexed uterus was mistaken for a retro- uterine hsematocele; but later on foetal parts were recognised and the uterus was replaced. Pour days after the patient passed with great pain a complete east of the mucous membrane of the bladder, coated with crystals of the urinai’y salts. Dr. G-. Defrance in an inaugural these, Paris, 1874, describes a new method of reducing a retroverted gravid uterus, devised by M. Yignard. The patient is placed in the position usual in Prance for the application of the forceps and the bladder is emptied : the operator stands on the right of the patient and places his hand firmly upon the