21 GLANDS. ylande or oryctne liliaire of Robin, is composed of a delicate reticulation of tubes, whilst in the meshes of this is a second organ, the glycogenic liver of Bernard, composed of the large glycogen-holding cells. Dr. Dalton1 believes that the bile presents a very distinct and cha- racteristic spectrum. He has examined the fresh bile of the ox, sheep, pig, dog, and man. In indicating the measurements of the spectrum he employs Yierordt’s method. This consists in taking as fixed points the eight principal lines of the solar spectrum, from A to H. The spaces between these lines are then considered as divided each into ioo equal parts, and the situation of an absorption band is expressed by proportional numbers, counting in the direction from the red to the violet end of the spectrum. The first distinguishing character of the spectrum of bile is that it is very short, the light being totally absorbed at a considerable distance from the refrangible end. In the specimens of ox bile, viewed in a thickness of one centimetre, in no case did the spectrum extend beyond the line E in the first quarter of the blue, and in most instances fell considerably short of it. In the human subject it was shorter still. As a general rule, the spectrum was cha- racterised by an absorption band at C. The extension and intensity of this band are proportional to the predominance of green in the colour of the bile. The spectrum of the bile is also distinguished by a diminution or absence of the orange and yellow, and a corresponding extension of the red and green. There are sometimes, also, two other absorption bands, comparatively uncertain and ill-defined, at D and D30E. The pure biliary salts in alcoholic solution, treated by Pettenkofer’s test, give a spectrum with absorption bands at E and E. In a watery solu- tion, treated by the same test, they give a spectrum with but one absorption band, namely, at E. Tarchanoff3 attributes the different results obtained by Kiihne and Hermann on one side and Naunyn and Steiner on the other, in regard to the possibility of the biliary colouring matter being formed in the circulatory system from blood-colouring matter, partly to the fact that the former experimenters used dogs, the latter rabbits, and partly to the different modes of testing employed. He appears to agree with Hermann, and thinks that it is so formed, and that it is excreted in the kidneys, but undergoes reabsorption into the blood. The formation of glycogen has been investigated by several observers. E. Schopffer3 injected grape sugar into the veins of the body gene- rally, and into the venaportte of rabbits. When a moderate quantity of the sugar was injected into the crural vein slowly, nearly all of it reappeared in the urine, but if the same quantity were thrown into the mesenteric vein none was discoverable in the urine. If, however, a large quantity were thrown into the mesenteric veins, or it was injected very rapidly into them, it was in part eliminated by the kid- neys. It woidd appear that this form of sugar is, when transmitted to the liver, converted into glycogen, which is, on chemical grounds, not improbable, since glycogen may be regarded as an anhydride of sugar. J ‘ New York Med. Journal,’ vol. xix, p. 579,1874. 2 J- Tarchanoff, “Ucbcr die Bildung v. Gallen-Pigment aus Blut-farbstoff,’ ‘ Archly f. Exp. Path.,’ 1873, i, p. 72. Pfluger’s Archiv,’ 1874, p. 53. 3