442 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. that obscure cases of gonorrhoea have more to do with the causation of certain cases of puerperal fever, and with acute and chronic pelvic inflammations, and chronic catarrh of the genital organs, than is sup- posed. He gives 4 cases in which an acute endometritis supervened in the puerperal state in patients the subjects of chronic or latent gonorrhoea ; the diagnosis was confirmed by the occurrence of severe ophthalmia in children. Dr. F. Weber (St. Petersburg) reports (‘ Berlin Klin. Wochens.,’ 1873) four cases of amaurosis which have come under his observation, and which show that amaurosis in lying-in women is intimately connected with puerperal eclampsia; yet it is not to be altogether considered as one of the prodromata, for in one case it came on apart from any eclampsia, and twice it occurred after the fits had ceased and only once preceded them. Whilst puerperal eclampsia is relatively frequent, amaurosis in lying-in women is admitted by all to be very rare. Neither can it be said to always depend upon uraemia. Of the four instances three were met with in multiparse, whilst of a hundred cases of eclampsia seventy are primiparse. Amaurosis occurring in one labour in no way predisposes the woman to its recurrence in the following ones. M. Mase reports the following case of ursemic eclampsia in a puer- peral woman. A woman, set. 35, had had seven normal pregnancies and was eight months pregnant when she had swelling of the legs and face. She lost consciousness and had fits, became comatose with stertorous breathing ; the foetal heart was heard, and as a fatal issue was antici- pated, everything was prepared for performing the Caesarean section ; this was effected two minutes after the death of the mother, and a living child was extracted three minutes after her death : it did well. Ana- lysis of the urine showed much albumen and little urea; the kidneys presented the characters of parenchymatous nephritis. In this case the temperature was remarkably lowered. (‘ Progres Medical,’ 1873.) Mr. Bourneville devotes the second part of his book on the * Clinical and Thermometric Studies of Diseases of the Nervous System ’ to the consideration of uraemia and puerperal epilepsy and hysteria. Uraemia of whatever form causes a progressive and considerable lowering of the central temperature, and this lowering increases more and more as the disease approaches the fatal termination. In eclampsia the tempera- ture rises from the beginning to the end; between the attacks the temperature remains high and at the moment of convulsions the tem- perature slightly rises; if a fatal termination approaches the temperature continues to rise ; as the attacks pass away the temperature falls. Dr. B. M. Cohen writes on eclampsia occurring during pregnancy, labour, and the puerperal state (‘Archiv f. Gynak.,’ vii, 1). Dr. Lize writes on puerperal convulsions and the management of cases when the cervix is neither dilated nor dilatable. (‘ Annales de Gynsecologie,’ Sept. 1874.) Dr. Steele reports a case of apoplexy, with convulsions and hemi- plegia occurring on the fourteenth day after delivery; the patient recovered. (£ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1873.) Dr. Marshal gives the details of a case of eclampsia successfully treated by injections of chloral. (‘ Berl. Klinisch. Wochenschr.,’ March, 1873-)