08 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. J. N. Cunningham prints (Calcutta, 1873, pp. 36) his ‘Report on the Cholera Epidemic of 1872 in Northern India.’ The epidemic was most severe in Oude and the north-western provinces ; it began somewhat earlier than usual—towards the end of May—and attacked, in a greater and more severe degree than former epidemics, the hill-stations. In most places in which cholera broke out diarrhoea was frequent, and the occurrence of malarial fevers was not affected by the presence of the cholera poison. Careful observation of a hundred centres, including regiments, cantonments, and jails, showed that the disease was not pro- pagated along the main lines of communication, and did not travel more rapidly than in the days when no railways existed. In no single instance could it be shown that the propagation of cholera was due to the drinking-water drawn from a particular well, nor in a single instance in India has a further outbreak of cholera been brought home to the dejecta of a patient suffering from the disease. W. R. E. Smart read before the Epidemiological Society (‘ Lancet,’ 1873, i, 406) a paper “ On Cholera in Insular Positions,” in which, after some general remarks, he sketches the geographical distribution of the various islands in which cholera has shown itself at any time. He directs attention to the fact that the homes of malarial fevers and of dysentery are also the cradles of cholera, and to the correlations of the latter with typhus, typhoid, yellow fever, smallpox, and influenza. Although it has been frequently denied, there are many positive instances of direct infection of islands by boats or ships, the former, in their com- merce between islands, being exempt from quarantine, and the latter cruising, perhaps, from coasts where cholera prevails, not being placed under any restrictions, though diarrhoea may be present among the crew. He instances the case of H.M.S. Apollo in 1849, in which cholera in its spasmodic form was carried from Cork to near the coast of Brazil, a voyage of 4500 miles and ^ days at sea, and urges that the diarrkceic form, which lasts after the first type has ceased, may be carried in ships to even a longer distance. The season of the year has great effect on the intensity of the disease; for instance, in the West India Islands the dry and generally healthy season is that in which cholera epidemics have been worst, while the hot wet season was most favour- able to the epidemic yellow fever of the country. The same holds true with the epidemics of Mauritius and Malta. Assuming the capability of ships and boats to convey the poison, and bearing in mind that it is carried, along the ocean with tenfold rapidity as compared with its travel overland, he urges that quarantine is, above all things, the most efficacious in opposing the march of cholera. . Eriedlander (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873,4^) insists on the importance of disinfection and rigorous isolation in cases of cholera, proved by Ins own experience since 1866. He also gives as the period of incubation, pretty constant in a series of cases observed by himself, * to 3 3 days. The difference he holds to be due, not to any individual peculiarities ot constitution, but to the quantity and quality of the poison taken m; the more intense the course of the affection, the shorter the period of incubation. . . . . , ,. Accounts of the epidemic in 1873 m various places are given by the