REPORT ON SURGERY. 2C8 from normal to 103° owing to plugging of the wound by a clot. In two other cases the temperature rose to 105° and to ioi° respectively owing to irritating matters being retained in wounds. In other cases men- tioned a high temperature persisted after operations without apparent cause. A very interesting case is noted in which amputation was about to be performed and a decided increase of temperature occurred and persisted^till death and indicated tubercular meningitis. (‘ St. Barth. IIosp. Bep., ’ x, 135-) Mr. Joseph Bell records cases in which temperatures afford some useful results. He summarises to the effect that—1. Suppuration, even very profuse, does not necessarily imply any great rise in tempera- ture so long as it is not putrid. 2. Foetor, or putrefaction of suppura- tion, always induces a rise in temperature. 3. A high temperature, lasting more than three or four days after the injury or operation, indicates mischief impending, such as sloughing or abscess. 4. The temperature generally gives warning a day or even two days before the pulse. His cases are divided into three classes:—1. Cases of recovery from operation or injury without putrefaction or suppuration. 2. Cases where the temperature warned of the approach of mischief. 3. Cases of fatal issue with high temperature. In the first group are cases of excision of joints, amputation of breast, &c. In the second, peri- tonitis, pneumonia, smallpox, sloughing, suppuration of diploe of skull, and gangrenous inflammation- of scrotum. In the third, ery- sipelas after excision of great toe-joint, &c. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1873-) Mr. Wagstaffe contributes a second paper on this subject and deals with pyaemia. Before the first rigor there are generally certain peculi- arities to be noted. There may be sudden variations without rigors, and these are more significant than a persistent high temperature, but, on the other hand, there may be a persistent and abnormally high temperature, indicating that suppuration is occurring, or that the con- dition of the blood is one of active chemical change. During the progress of the disease extreme variations are the most marked sign. The rigor is generally preceded by a fall in temperature ; during the rigor there is a rapid rise. The temperature after the first rigor is usually as high as at any subsequent period, but the difference between any two temperatures is more marked later on. (‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Bep.,’ iii, 1872, 131.) Artificial production of local ancemia during operations—Bloodless operations.—This process, which has for more than a year excited much attention among surgeons, was described by Dr. Esmarch, professor of surgery in Kiel, at a meeting of the German Surgical Society, in April, 1873 (‘ Berlin. Klin. Woch.,’Aug. 18,1873), and was afterwards more fully described by him in No. 38 of ‘ Yolkmann’s Sammlung Klimscher VortrRffG * It consists in emptying the part of blood before the operation, and at the same time shutting off the influx of blood. Esmarch has followed this method for several years in cases of amputation where it has seemed advisable to avoid loss of blood, and has more recently extended its use to resections and to operations on diseased bones and joints,