399 DISPLACEMENTS OF UTERUS. he reviews the various forces which can act on the uterus : as gravita- tion (not a powerful force) the force generated by the distending rectum, that from the distending bladder, the force produced by the abdominal muscle, the force of the diaphragm: the force of inertia from jolts and falls, &c. He then describes the various displacements and the conditions which bring them about, and concludes by saying that anteflexion is possible only when the bladder and rectum are both full enough to raise the fundus of the uterus above and in front of an imaginary plane continuous with the anterior surface of the spinal column. Anteversion is only possible when the rectum is full and the bladder empty, except when the uterus is considerably elongated, in which case it is the permanent condition. The so-called “ complete anteversion” is only possible when the anterior wall of the vagina is of unusual length. Retroversion is only a step towards retroflexion. Both conditions may be produced when the rectum is empty, and that is a necessary condition for their production. Dr. Hermann Beigel discusses (‘ Wiener Medizin. Wochenschr, No. 12, 1873) the influence of changes iu the position of the uterus in pro- ducing sterility; he first shows from statistics the frequency of dis- placements in sterile women, and then that the influence of dis- placements is mechanical by causing closure of the canal, and then figures a form of intra-uterine stem which he has found useful in such cases. Dr. Griffiths writes (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’eDec. 1873) on the causes and pathology of the various acquired malpositions of the uterus. Dr. Ludwig Joseph, writing on flexions of the uterus (‘ Beitrage zur Geburtshulfe und G-ynak.,’ xi, 2, 1873), after reviewing the opinions of various authors, shows that anteflexion, either congenital or acquired, occurs most frequently in virgins or in those who have aborted; in these latter being the most frequent cause of the so-called ‘ habitual abortion,’ produced generally by peritoneal adhesions to the posterior wall of the bladder, or by pressure from above, as in obstinate constipation, large collection of fasces, tumours, &c. 'He sums up his conclusions as follows: 1.Rokitansky’s theory of the normal structure of the uterus and the origin of flexions is doubtful, as the anatomical substratum upon which it is founded does not exist. So, also the acceptation by Yirchow, that the mucous membrane of the uterus possesses a submucous stratum, is erroneous. 2. Virchow’s views on the occurrence of flexions acquire more support from the anatomical facts observed 3. Anteflexions, when not congenital, occurring from defective development of the anterior uterine wall, are produced mainly by mechanical forces, which are situated either external to the uterus, or take place through parametritic cicatricial contractions whilst retroflexions are produced generally through relaxation of the uterine tissue m consequence of defective puerperal involution (‘Med Times and Gfaz., June, 1873). v • Dr. Thomas Savage, writing on flexions of the multiparous uterus speaks of the good results he has seen follow the use of ah intra-uterine stem ; he gives several cases (‘ Obst. Journ.,’ Nov 1873) 6 Dr. John Williams read a paper before the Obstetrical Society of