128 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ot a young man also, is almost precisely similar. To this affection he gives the name Cephalalgia vaso-motoria. J. F. Payne (‘ St. Thomas’s Iiosp. Rep.,’ iii, 171) records a case of probable injury (during birth) to the sympathetic nerve in the neck, in a boy, aged fifteen months. A comparison of the two sides of the face, on the condition of which the diagnosis mainly rests, gave the following results:—On the right side, usually normal amount of vascularity; marked hypermmia on excitement; secretion ordinarily excessive, and on excitement increased; normal size of palpebral opening; normal position and prominence of eye ; pupil larger than left, but apparently quite normal; plump and elastic condition of skin and subcutaneous tissue. On the left side, permanent anaemia; no hyperaemia or excite- ment ; lessened secretion of conjunctiva, nose, and sweat-glands, not increased on excitement; opening of eyelids smaller than normal, with apparent ptosis; eye sunken, and surrounded with lividity ; pupil smaller than right, and apparently abnormally contracted ; flabby and morbid appearance of skin and subcutaneous tissue. No difference could be perceived on the two sides in the development of the teeth, or the condition of the tongue, lips, or mouth. That of the hair was doubtful. He compares it with cases recorded by W. Ogle, and by Mitchell, Moorhouse, and Keen. Feinberg (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lix, 270) has made experiments on the cause of death after covering the skin of animals with varnish, and considers that it is due to a general dilatation of the blood-vessels of the body, consequent on paralysis of the vaso-motor centres. O. Berger (“ Zur Pathogenese der Hemicranie,” ib., 315) gives the case of a woman, set. 45, in whom the hemicrania on the right side seems to have been caused by over-dilatation of the blood-vessels, due to paralysis of their muscular walls. There had been, in this case, pain on pressure over the first cervical ganglion on that side, and the pain was accompanied by right-sided ephidrosis and pupil-dilatation. E. Frftnkel, ‘ Zur Patliologie ties Halssympathicus/ Breslau, 1874, pp. 38- A. It. Robinson, “ Ueber die entzundlicben Verauderungen der Ganglienzellen des Sympa- thies,” ‘ Wien. Med. Jahrb./ 1873, 438. A. Bidder, “ Hypertrophie des Ohres nach excision eines Stiickes von Halssympathicus des Kanincbens,” ‘ Centralbl. f. Ckir., 1874 No. 7. Carville and Bochefontaine, “ De l’ablation du Ganglion premier tkora- cique du Grand Sympathique chez le Ckien,” * Gaz. Med.,’ 1874, 157. W. Cuntz, “Eiu Beitrag zur Pathologie der Vasomotorischen Nerven,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk., xv, 63. H. Emminghaus, “Ueber Halbseitigen Gesicbtsatropbie,” £ Deut. Arch./ xi, 96. H. Fretny, “La Troplionevrose faciale,” ‘Gaz. des H6p./ 1873, 401- Sigersonj ' Note sur la Paralysie vasomotrice generalisee des Membres superieurs, Pans, 1074» pp. 19. Lubimoff, “ Beitrage zur Histologic und pathologiscben Anatomie des bym- pathischen Nervensystems,” ‘Virch Arch./ lxi, 145. The following papers deal with cases of unascertained or general nervous disorders, or with special forms not noticed in the preceding pages: Gull “ On a Cretinoid State supervening in Adult Life in Women,” ‘ Clin. Soc. Trans’ vii 180. C. H. Jones, “ Cases of Obscure Nerve Disorder, Med. Times and Gaz ’'1874, n, 230, &c. Stewart, “ On some cases of Nervous Disease accompanied by Muscular Twitching,” ib. ib., 227, 357- Man, “ Case of severe Vertigo/•-6. Anderson, “Gastric and Cerebral Vomiting,”‘Lancet, i874>»,577- LlClarke> Nervous