228 REPORT ON SURGERtf. itself a carefully made graduated compress, over which the bandage should be carried, ending in a spica at the groin ; another compress might be placed over Poupart’s ligament, to exercise a certain amount of pressure upon the epigastric and common femoral. Over the com- press on the wound, Skey’s tourniquet should be applied and kept tight for at least some hours. Should bleeding recur, the whole arrangement should be readjusted; it would seem probable that gangrene would occur, but it has not so in any case. The collateral circulation is probably well established; the alternative, if pressure fails, would probably be am- putation. E. Cases in which no treatment was adopted. In three, the haemorrhage stopped spontaneously ; in four cases, the patient died before anything could be done. The author summarises as follows; it would appear that of these methods of treating secondary haemor- rhage from the femoral, ligature of the external iliac is, under no cir- cumstances, justifiable. The operation is not only useless in arresting bleeding, but exceedingly fatal to the patient’s life; amputation has the merit of being recommended by the best authorities in modern surgery, but it would seem that if the patient have sufficient vitality to bear this formidable operation, he cannot be in such a condition as to forbid a further trial of pressure. Still in desperate cases, or those in which gangrene has already set in, removal of the limb may be the only chance of saving the patient’s life. Opening the wound is a hazardous and uncertain proceeding, and the chances of success appear too slight to weigh against the delay, uncertainty, and danger of the operation. Eirm bandaging and the most carefully adjusted pressure are undoubtedly the treatment to be adopted in these cases, and the method should be carried out with an assiduity and perseverance derived from the firm conviction that in the majority of instances it is the only treatment to be relied on. (‘ St. Barth. ITos. Bep.,’ x, 91.) Gluteal aneurism.—Mr. Holmes discusses the treatment of the various forms of gluteal aneurism (Lectures, ‘Lancet,’ July 11 and 18, 1874), He sums up: 1. Gluteal aneurisms, both traumatic and spontaneous, are very favorably circumstanced for the treatment by either rapid or o-radual compression applied to the aorta or common iliac. 2. If this treatment does not succeed by itself it may be supplemented by coagu- lating injection or galvano-puncture, performed while the patient is narcotised and the circulation commanded. 3. When such treatment fails, and particularly in aneurisms with imperfect or ruptured sacs where it is not indicated, the internal iliac must be tied when the sur- geon thinks that he cannot find the artery outside the pelvis. _ But when the artery is accessible, the old operation, or the operation ot Anel, should be practised according to the size and extent of the tumour. 4. The ligature of the internal iliac artery is liable to failure in cases of spontaneous aneurism from a diseased condition of the coats of the artery, and should always be avoided when other means ot treatment are available. Ligature of the common iliac has never SUCC66(l6d. Mr. Bickersteth records a case which occurred in the person of a sea- man who had three years previously fallen on a knife. Severe bleeding