425 THE MECHANISM OF LABOUE. forty seconds was without effect. Schlesinger has arrived at the con- clusion that the path by which the excitation issuing from the brain reached the uterus was certainly in part through the nerve plexus sur- rounding the aorta, but in part also through other, though not yet satisfactorily demonstrated, channels. (‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1873, ii, 4, and ‘ Lancet,’ Feb. 1873. ‘Strieker Med. Jahrb.,’ 1, 1873.) Prof. Cyon (‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ viii, heft 6 and 7> ^873) communi- cates the results of experiments made on animals upon the innervation of the uterus. Dogs and rabbits of different ages were used; some were put under the influence of curare before experimenting, others not. The following are the chief results arrived at: 1. The uterine plexus is the most important, if not the only, motor nerve, which can produce effectual movements of the uterus by the irritation of its peripheral ends. (Irritation of the central ends only gives rise to severe vomiting). 2. Irritation of the central ends of the first two sacral nerves produces, in a reflex way, powerful uterine movements, which cease after the uterine plexus has been cut through. (Irrita- tion of the peripheral nerves gives rise to powerful contractions of the bladder and the rectum.) 3. Irritation of the brachial, crural, median, sciatic nerve, &c., gives rise to no peristaltic movements of the uterus, but only causes a slight rigidity, and paleness. 4. The effect of the irritation of the nerves disappears if the aorta has been previously com- pressed ; but irritation of the central ends of the sacral nerves still causes, even after the closure of the aorta, peristaltic movements of the uterus. 3. Suffocation through continued interruption of respiration causes powerful peristaltic movements, probably through direct excitation of the involuntary muscular fibres by the accumulated carbonic acid gas. Dr. Matthews Duncan read a paper before the Obstetrical Society of Edinburgh, April, 1874 on the chief directions and extents of uterine shrinking, specially at the time of the complete expulsion of the contents of the gravid uterus. Shrinking of the muscular wall of the uterus generally caused no rug® or sulci in the peritoneum, this membrane being sufficiently elastic to follow the shrinking uterus, without forming folds or rugae. But under the influence of inflamma- tion or other conditions, the peritoneum was deficient in elasticity, and did not shrink co-ordinately with the subjacent muscular tissue,’ and then it formed ridges and furrows of various kinds. Of these three kinds were described. The furrows and ridges would of course be in a direction transverse to the direction of the shrinking, and their qualities might indicate, the extent of the shrinking, its direction and its posi- tmn The shrinking was not uniform in extent or direction in different parts of the uterine wall. The extent and duration of the shrinking of a uterine wall as a whole might be made out by mere measurement there being fixed points to measure from. Dr. Duncan knew of no other method than this which he now proposed. ES I>^UCan’m a PaPer on tlie spontaneous separation of the placenta when it is prama, points out that during labour every portion °f the surface of the body of the uterus undergoes contraction and probably to the same extent; but the lower part of the body of