375 RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA. did not suffer from any eye disease, nor did his brothers and sisters, with the exception of one sister who had become blind from glaucoma. The first symptoms were noticed when he was fourteenyears old. He then suffered from hemeralopia, but could still read and write. When twenty years of age his sight only enabled him to find his way about. When seen his vision only amounted to incomplete perception of light and dim vision of large objects. He became very anaemic, and died of cirrhosis of the liver and kidneys. Careful microscopic examinations of the optic nerves, retinae, &c., were made. The second patient was also a man, aet. 39. The parents were not related, and no member of the family suffered from eye disease. He had always had defective sight, and from the age of eighteen had been completely blind. The opthalmoscopic appearances were those of typical congenital retinitis pigmentosa. The patient became anaemic and dropsical. There was no apparent disease of the heart, and only a trace of albumen in the urine, and the latter gradually disappeared. At thepost-mortem general wasting, with chronic interstitial nephritis, &c., were found. The following is a brief summary of the results of the examination of the two cases. The chief changes were found in the retina; almost total disappearance of the nervous elements and of the rods and cones ; a very high degree of hyperplasia of the existing connective tissue, and the formation of new connective tissue in the connective-tissue frame- work and in the walls of the vessels. The latter were much thickened, their calibre diminished and their finest ramifications completely de- generated into connective tissue. Their walls contained masses of pig- ment which had either migrated from elsewhere, or was an endogenous production, and was partly enclosed in cells and partly free. The pigment had in great part vanished from the epithelial layer, and was collected in isolated positions along the course of the retinal vessels. In the choroid in the first case, thinning of the capillary vessels and pigmentary infiltration of the same were found, as well as an abnormal fusion of the layers together. The portion of the vitreous nearest to the retina was altered in structure, infiltrated with colourless blood-cells and with pigment-granules, and in the second case was too fluid. The lens was affected with polar cataract. These changes do not differ from those met with in other cases which have been examined. No glandular excrescences were found in the choroid, as described by Leber. The choroidal changes were very slight, and this fact showed that they were really cases of retinitis pigmentosa. The changes found all pointed to a chronic inflammatory process, ivhich was chiefly situated in the retina, and more particularly in the vessels of the retina. The walls of the peripheral retinal vessels become inflamed, their con- nective tissue hypertrophied, and at the same time also hypertrophy of the surrounding connective tissue is set up. The nervous elements disappear, owing, at first, to pressure, and, later, to failure of nutrition dependent on narrowing of the calibre of the vessels. The re- tinal function is abolished. The process gradually encroaches on the central parts, the field of vision becomes narrower and narrower. No symptoms of stasis develop, because the process is so gradual. The morbid process extends more deeply j the epithelial layer immediately