itEPORT on Practical medicine. 126 on two following clays with the same results. The patient recovered. JNo inflammation of the vein occurred. Ten grammes are sufficient to paialyse completely the reflex irritation of the cord for hours. Eib, Zur Lehre von der Tetanic nebsfc Betnerkungen liber die Priifung der elek- trischen Erregbarkeit motoriscber Nerven,” ‘Arch. f. Psych.,’ iv, 271. Simm, ‘ Ein Beitrag zur Lebre von der Tetanie,’ Breslau, 1874, pp. 36. Kussmaul, “Ueber eine abortive Form des Tetanus,” ‘ Deut. Arcli.,’ xi, 1. P. Schultze, “ Uebcr einige Falle von ietanie,’ ‘ Berl. Klin. Wocb.,’ 1874, 83. Bourgeois, “Note sur les cas de Tetanus observes pendant une pratique de plus de quaraute annees ” (17 cases), ‘Gaz. des H6p.,’ 1874, 732• Baizeau, “ Tetanus traumatique aigu, mort en trente-six lieurs, einploi de chloral et de la morphine,” ib., 698. Boucliut, “ Du Tetanus et de l’hydrate de chloral daus le traitement de cette maladie” (in children), ib., 1873, 362. W. K. Treves, “Case of Idiopathic Tetanus” (boy, set. 13, recovery), ‘Lancet,’ 1874, i, 363. J. Cunningham, “ Case of Traumatic Tetanus successfully treated by Calabar Bean',” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1874, i, 430. C. D. Allen, “Acute Tetanus ending in complete recovery,” ib. ib. ib. Leacl-poisoning. G-. Gaflky (‘ Ueber den urslichlichen Zusammeuhang zwischen chronischer Blei-intoxication und Hierenaffectionen,’ Berlin, 1873, pp. 30), publishes a case of lead colic occurring in a woman employed in a paper factory, whose business it was to stamp paper patterns with a lead hammer. She suffered from albuminuria, which disappeared on an attack of colic, and from this fact he attempts to show that in chronic lead-poisoning there is some change in the vaso-motor nerves of the abdomen, especially in the fibres of the sympathetic of the splanchnic nerve, by means of which an albuminuria saturnina may be caused. He gives two other cases in which, in the course of chronic lead- poisoning, nephritis occurred without any appreciable cause, and in- clines to the opinion that the former affection may be a predisposing cause of the latter. M. Leidersdorf (‘ Wien. Med. Ztng.,’ 1873, 561) records a case in which the same question finds a different illustration. A house- painter’s assistant, a year previous to his death, had suffered from lead-colic. During life his urine was free from albumen, and though death occurred from convulsions and coma, his kidneys were found to be perfectly healthy, putting death from urmmia out of the question; in addition there was anaemia and oedema of the brain, without any change in its tissue or in the meninges. Lead was found in small quantities in the urine and the brain-substance. Troisier and Lagrange (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1784, 62) give the history and microscopical examination of the brain, half the spinal cord, and the liver, of a tinman, set. 46. The substance used by him in his work consisted of four parts tin and one part lead. He gave up work a year before his death, which occurred through some organic affection ot the stomach, and during that time presented no symptoms of lead-poison- ing, though a lead gum-line was visible to the last. The organs named were examined as described in the text; the brain contained a mo- derate quantity of lead, the liver only traces, and the cord, so far as it could be recognised, none. O Berger (“Ein Beitrag zur Lehre von der Encephalopatma satur- nina/’ ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch./ 1874, 122) gives the case of the wife of a