509 MALARIOtS -FEVERS. out of the old sewers, and instead of the former sprinkling with solution of sulphate of iron, the abundance of water permitted hydrants also to be placed for flushing as well. To this Sernon thinks much influence may have been due, and certainly the drinking of the pure water, and the purification of the surface and of the drains by its abundant supply, are more reasonable explanations of the non-prevalence of cholera than the assumption that the agent had lost the power of spreading. It had, in fact, prevailed heavily in the very vicinity of Dantzic, and we ought, therefore, to be careful in falling back on what is a mere assumption. Malarious Fevers. Dr. Munro,1 in a paper entitled “ Remarks upon Malarious Fevers, and Cholera, &c.,” draws the following conclusions :— (1) There is no such poison as malaria. (2) Degrees of heat, acting upon moisture, are the agents which excite certain electrical conditions, which, acting on the sympathetic nervous system, are the direct agents in causing fever, hitherto called malarious. (3) That the impression on the nervous system is a condition of paralysis of greater or less degree. (4) That the fevers called intermittent, remittent, jungle, aud yellow fever, and cholera, and heat apoplexy, are the manifestations of the different degrees of paralysis; and consequently, that these so-called different diseases are merely phases of one great type of fever. (5) That quinine is the remedy which, if administered at the very commencement of any one of these phases of fever, is most to be relied on. (6) That there is a stage of cholera (or the choleraic form of fever) described in this paper, which is the first stage, and which is almost invariably to be detected ; what has hitherto been called premonitory diarrhoea being the commencement of the second or confirmed state of choleraic, seizure. The first stage (as described by me) is that in which quinine is to be administered with every probability of success. Bodies floating in the air.—Dr. Cunningham,2 who is employed by the Government of India in the investigation of cholera in India, has made an elaborate investigation on the floating bodies in the air within the precincts of two large gaols near Calcutta. Microscopic powers of 400 to 1000 diameters were employed, the solid bodies being collected in an apparatus resembling Maddox’s arrangement. The substances most, frequently found were silica, amorphous granular masses, carbon, lime, starch-corpuscles, cells, hairs, and other fragments of vegetable tissues, fibres of cotton, &c., hairs and scales of insects, oil-globules, pollen-grains, spores and cells of fungi and algae. Among the rarer constituents were acari, specimens of which occurred in four preparations; they were more or less disintegrated in most cases. 2 ‘ Report of the Army Med. Depart, for 1872,5 Append, No. IV., p. 266. - Ninth Am Kept, ot the San. Commissioner of the Govt, in India,’ Appendix A i Microscopic Examinations of Air. * *■ '