INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 253 which the internal table was fractured alone. Of these, all but one proved fatal. In that one case exfoliation occurred and the nature ot the injury was demonstrated. Dr. Otis thinks the use of the trephine “undeniably justifiable” in the event of the persistence of urgent symptoms of compression, and particularly it there is paralysis of the side opposite to that of the injury. Bight out of twelve cases here reported, however, in which trephining was practised, proved fatal, while the only patient who is positively known to have recovered from this injury during the war was not trephined. All the cases of trephin- ing in gunshot injuries of the head are recorded. Besides those for contusion already mentioned, there are given 93 cases of trephining for gunshot fracture which proved fatal; 24 which resulted in recovery, with various degrees of disability; 15 in which the patients recovered sufficiently to resume their military duties; 4 in which the patients were placed on modified duty; 6 in which they exchanged, &c., and 36 in which patients were discharged from the service. Comments are reserved for a separate report in the next volume. Of 61 cases of hernia cerebri, only 11 terminated m recovery. Fracture by contre- coup is discussed at length. A table of 911 cases of injury to the skull in which some operation was performed is given. Extraction of missiles, 173 cases with 89 recoveries, 83 deaths, and 3 undetermined. Ligatures of arteries, 33 cases with 21 recoveries, and 12 deaths. Removal of bone splinters or elevation of depressed bone, 454 cases with 273 recoveries, 176 deaths, and 3 undetermined. Formal trephining 229 cases with jqi recoveries, 126 deaths, and 2 undeter- mined. Operations for hernia cerebri, 29 cases with 7 recoveries, and 22 deaths. In the cases of trephining, most recoveries occurred the longer the operation was postponed. The common carotid was tied in seven instances of injuries to the head, each time unsuccessfully. The same vessel was tied 34 times in cases of face wouud, and 23 times in cases of wound in the neck or spine, giving a total of 84 examples of this operation with 63 deaths. In 186 instances, balls penetrated the cranial cavity ; in 83 instances, the foreign body was removed with 43 recoveries and 42 deaths; in 101 instances, the foreign body was not removed, only 42 of these ending in recovery, while 39 proved fatal. Compression of the train as met with in army practice.—Dr. S. W. Gross, of Philadelphia, has a detailed article on this subject in the ‘Am. Journ. of the Med. Sci.,’ July, 1873. The agents which induce the phenomena of compression, and which exert a most decided in- fluence on the question of the propriety of surgical interference, may be divided into two classes—first, those which call forth early symp- toms ; and, secondly, those which excite late symptoms. The former are sufficiently voluminous to diminish the intra-cranial space, thereby compressing the tissues of the brain and driving out its normal fluids, while the latter act rather as foreign bodies aud sources of irritation’ which, while they do not encroach materially on the cavity of the skull’ equally lead to disturbances of the cerebral circulation, through irrita- tion of the vaso-motor nerves, or spasm of the vessels, or^throu^h changes effected in the connected nervous centres. When the com-