TUBERCULOSIS ? INOCULABILITY OP TUBERCLE. 55 use of simple inoculation ; in the second, inoculation combined with “tuberculous feeding in the third, the latter alone. By inoculation with tuberculous matter from the human subject he produced general miliary tuberculosis in the dogs, but only a slight or local action in the other carnivora. Inoculation combined with tuberculous feeding pro- duced in the goats peritoneal tubercles, with tuberculous ulceration of the intestinal mucous membrane, and lesion of the mesenteric glands. The contents of the bronchi of an animal of the bovine species affected with tubercle set up tubercle when inoculated, and probably also when swallowed. Carnivorous animals may be fed with impunity on fresh tuberculous matter taken from animals of the bovine species; but kerbivora fed on tuberculous and cheesy matter undergo infection, shown by intestinal ulcerations, hyperplasia of the intestinal follicles, swelling and cheesy change of the mesenteric glands, and often by the presence o£ tubercles in the peritoneum, liver and lungs. Two months suffice in these cases to kill the animal. No tuberculosis is produced by feeding goats on cheesy matter. He thinks there is a remarkable resemblance between the lesions observed in animals thus fed and scrofula in the human subject ; especially in the enlargement and de- generation of the mesenteric and cervical glands. No distinction can be made between infectious tuberculosis and infectious anthrax. He concludes with a review of all the experiments made on the subject. [The author has already (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ lv, 290) satisfied himself of the identity of miliary tuberculosis as it occurs in cats and in the human subject.] Chauveau (‘Lyon Med.,’ xiv, 203) insists that his experiments on the transmission of tuberculosis by the digestive organs lead to the same result, and challenged the members of the French Association for the Advancement of Science to be present at the autopsy of two calves which he had fed on tuberculous matter. Colin, on the other hand (‘ Compt. Bend.,’ lxxvi, 113 t), asserts that tuberculosis and phthisis are not produced by the introduction of mat- ters containing fresh tubercle (muscle, blood, bronchial secretion). He believes that the contradictory results obtained by different experi- menters may be _ explained partly by the fact that the observations were made on animals already affected with tuberculosis ; partly by the fact that by forcing the animals to swallow the tuberculous matter portions of it fell into the respiratory passages, and there set up cheesy inflammations of greater or less extent. J G-. Bizzozero (“ TTeber die Tuberculose der Haut.,” ‘ Centralbl ’ iSvq 292) publishes the case of a child, set. 13, who for some time had pre- sented symptoms of scrofula. On post-mortem examination there was chronic suppurative inflammation of the left ankle-joint and the phalangeal joint of the right thumb; tuberculosis of the lungs with peri-bronchitis ; extensive tuberculosis and ulceration of the intes ,1T1pa - chronic interstitial inflammation of the ver ; an abscess the size of a hazel-nut skm of the left forearm; mucous cuta- the elbows, the right side of the face ulcerations were of various sizes and* VYI III kidneys; fatty infiltration of li witli cheesy contents, under the neous ulcerations, especially on and the left shoulder. These