64 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. parried by maniacal delirium and attempts to commit suicide. The patient recovered under the use of quinine. Burq (“ Fievre Intermittente orfciee,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1873, 867) contributes a case of “ Febris intermittens urticata” in a man, set. 50 ; here also the fever was quotidian, and was accompanied, when at its height, by delirium, hallucinations, and a general eruption of urticaria over the whole body. After the disappearance of the other symptoms the brain still remained affected, and the patient was placed in an asylum. L. Colin (“ Sur la migration du pigment sanguin a travers les parois vasculaires dans la melanemie palustre,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1873, 35) holds that in the morbid state, to which tbe term “ palustral melanaemia” is applied, the blood contains pigment in such considerable quantities as to occasion frequently, by its accumulation, an aneurismal distension and even rupture of the walls of the small vessels. The pigment is either free or contained in the leucocytes. Again, the walls of certain vessels are so stained with this colouring matter that organs whose natural colour is white, as, for instance, the brain, present a slaty tint; the pigment-granules are found iucrusting the internal surface of the vessels, the walls themselves, and sometimes occur as an opaque layer outside them. He suggests that there is an intimate relation between the pigment-matter of the blood and the pigmentation of other tissues, in which probably the leucocytes are the most active agents. S. v. Basch gives (‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1873, 233) a case of mela- ntemia occurring in a medical man, set. 32, who had suffered for a long period from intermittent fever, and had become excessively cachectic. He had complained latterly of pain in the urethra on passing water. On examining the urine crystals of phosphate of lime, and flakes and cells containing pigment, were found in pretty large quantities. The same pigment-cells were found in the blood. The urine did not con- tain albumen. The patient improved under the employment of quinine and carbonic acid baths, bnt the urine and blood still contained pig- ment. The titles of the papers given below show the extent to which eucalyptus globulus and carbolic acid have been commended in the treatment of different forms of intermittent fever. T. Bassignot, “ Etude sur la fievre Endemo-epidemique qui regne a la Reunion,” ‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xx, 279. Bourel-Ronciere (a Description of Glandular Swellings in this affection, in an account of the diseases of Rio Janeiro), ib., 355. J. Mahe” “ Fievres-paludeennes; Anemie et cachexie d’origine palustre paludeenne ” (based on cases observed in the Marine Hospital at Brest), ib., xxi, 74* F. L. Galt, “ Notes on Malarial Diseases of tbe Marabou Valley,” ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ lxv, ii2 J M. Hunter, “ On tbe Remittent Eever of tbe West Coast of Africa,” 1 Brit. Med Journ.,’ 1873, ii, 629. E. Renard, “Topographie McMicale de la Calle et dtioloo-ie de la fievre Intermittente,” 1 Rdc. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ xxix, 545. E. Bachon, ‘ De l’lnfection palustre et Particulierement de la Fievre bilieuse,’ ib 22c Monestier, “Fievre ictero-hematurique ou bilieuse hematurique” (man, It it mlmbitimt of L. Koonion , analysis of mine, *c), • Q»?. des Hop.; , S73, 820. Moreley and Lavit, “ Les pneumonies pernicieuses ou aacces, ib., 50. bisseux, “'Fievres intermittentes pneumonicjues ou pneumonies pernicieuses” (five cases), ib, 3.