131 (EDEMA GLOTTIDIS—DIPHTHERIA^ ETC. Diphtheria and Group. H. Rothe (‘De Natura Diphtheridis,’ Berlin, 1873) looks upon croup as an intensified catarrh, from which diphtheria is never deveioped with- out the influence of some specific poison. On the other hand, dipht itself is both anatomically and clinically a distinct affection always originating in the same specific cause. At its commencement it is a local process, and in some cases may remain so throughout its course, though in the majority of cases it becomes a general constitutional Caspari (“ Croup oder Pseudocroup,” ‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1873,186) warmly opposes Kuster’s views on the question (see ‘ Berl. Klin, woch., 1872, Nos. 18, 19), especially his theory that false croup comes on without any prodromata, while true croup is preceded by pains in the throat, head, limbs, &c. He holds that the best clinical observers must distin- guish two types of croup, the one sudden in its attack, the other developed gradually. He mentions incidentally that the Scotch word croup is applied to the white deposit on the tongue in fowls suffering from the pip. Zum Sande writes (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 315) on certain etio- logical relations of diphtheria to other diseases. He gives a number of cases in which diphtheria was complicated with scarlet fever, the con- tagion of which set up diphtheria in other persons. He relates in full the course of several successive infections in the members of a large family. Some were attacked by diphtheria only; in others a scarlet fever eruption, followed by desquamation, broke out on the eighth day of the former affection. He does not think these were cases of scarla- tina in the ordinary sense of the word, inasmuch as the eruption did not precede, hut broke out eight days after, the pharyngeal diphtheria, and the contagion of the patients who presented this eruption set up a fresh simple diphtheria. A. Martin records (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1873, 733) the following aa hearing on the contagion of the disease. A child, mt. i\ years, was attacked with diphtheria of the vulva, fauces, and larynx, and died in three days. A pregnant woman, set. 38, who had suffered from sub- acute laryngitis for a month, helped to nurse the child. Two days after the death of the latter the laryngitis became worse, and in three days she died of laryngeal diphtheria without any signs of deposit in the fauces. The existence of the simple catarrhal laryngitis determined the diphtheritic infection to the weakened organ. P. Mosler (“ Ueber Collapsus nach Diphtherie,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiv, 61) holds that diphtheria belongs to the category of diseases in which there is a tendency to collapse in consequence of the poison. In the two cases which he gives he found fatty degeneration of the muscle of the heart. The first was that of a girl of fifteen, in whom the diph- theritic process went on to destruction of the soft tissues of the pharynx. On the eleventh day there was paresis of the velum and the lower extremities, and sudden collapse on the fifteenth day. Trans- fusion was tried without success. In addition to the fatty change the autopsy showed great dilatation of the heart and partial aneurism at