433 OBSTETRIC OPERATIONS. Obstetric Operations. Caesarean section.—Dr. F. Valentinottireports (£ Gaz. dclle Gliniche, Nov. 1873) a successful case of Caesarean section in a woman, set. 30, rickety and much deformed. The operation was performed, when labour pains set in and a living female child was removed. Dr. liota also i’eport3 (£ Gaz. Med. Italiana Lombardie,’ Oct. 1873) a case of Ca3sarean section performed on a woman who died in the ninth month of her fourth pregnancy of anasarca. The operation was performed a few minutes after death ; the child, a male, was removed asphyxiated, but eventually lived. (* Lond. Med. ltec.,’ Feb. 1874.) Dr. 0. Ungarelli reports (£ Gaz. delle Clinicale,’ No. 48, 1873) a suc- cessful case of Caesarean section ; the child was born alive ; the woman, set. 27, had a deformed spine and pelvis. The position of the foetus had been accurately ascertained, the incision was made over where the feet were lying. Dr. Giirtler reports a case of Caesarean section in an osteomalacic pelvis; the mother and child both recovered. (£ Archiv fur Gynak.,’ v, 3, 1873.) Kob contributes (£ Beitrage zur Geburtsh. und Gynak.,’iii, 2, 1873) a case of Caesarean section on a woman set. 40. The pelvic cavity was blocked by a cystic colloid tumour, so that only the tips of the finger could be passed between it and the symphysis. The tumour was punctured, but could not be emptied. The operation was performed as is usual; the haemorrhage from the uterine wound could not be stopped, though the uterus was well contracted, till the edges were brought together ; the woman died on the third day ; the child was saved. Mr. D. C. Nicholls records (‘ Lancet,’ June, 1873) a case where the opera- tion was performed upon a woman set. 32, on account of malignant disease; the whole cavity of the pelvis being filled with a hard, irre- gular, nodulated, and firmly attached mass. As the uterus did not contract, the edges of the wound were brought together by two sutures. The woman died on the second day after the operation; the foetus was dead. Dr. J. Mayer relates a successful case of section on a woman, set. 30, rachitic to an extreme degree; both mother and child were saved ; the antero-posterior diameter measured 17 inches (‘Archives de Tocologie,’ Sept. 1874). Dr. Cazin reports (£ Gaz. Med.,’ Oct. 1874) a case of Csesarean sec- tion in a woman set. 39 ; the woman could not be delivered naturally on account of a fibroid tumour ; both mother and child were saved. Dr. E. Martin related to the Gynsecological Society at Berlin a success- ful case of Csesarean section, performed on a young woman set. 26, whose pelvis was kypho-scoliotic and transversely narrowed ; the outlet of the pelvis measured v6 in. (4 cm.) transversely. The uterine wound was closed with catgut sutures. (‘Berl. Klin. Wochenschr ’ a. 1874.) The Csesarean section was made by M. Marcet (£ Progres Med.,’ 1873) on a multipara, who, fifteen days before labour, had oedema of the lower limbs and face, and pains in the head ; convulsions came on suddenly, and the woman died comatose. The operation was at once performed 28