57 TEMPERATURE AND EEVER. tion in frogs which he had infected by the injection of fluids contain- in- monads, is inclined to hold the view suggested by former experi- ments and supported by Traube, Senator, and others, that fever con- sists essentially, not in increased heat production, hut m decreased loss of heat. But in place of the hypothesis put forward by Traube, which Hiiter thinks does not hold for all phases of fever, and is some- what obscure in its mode of origin, viz., that there is a paralysis of the small cutaneous arteries, he urges the theory that the smallest vessels, including those of the lung, are temporarily cut off from the general circulation of the body. H. Senator (ib., 84) follows this paper with a report of his own ex- periments made on the vessels of the ear of albino rabbits, with a view to prove whether, as most authors hold, there is in fever a general relaxation and dilatation of the vessels ; a permanent contraction, as Traube supposes, of the smallest arteries; or, as he thinks himself, a periodical contraction of them, varying according to time and place. These fresh experiments demonstrate directly, as it appears to him, that there is “ neither a paralysis nor a permanent tetanus of the vessels durin- the height of fever,” and lead to the conclusion which Heiden- hain (‘ Pfliiger’s Arch.,’v, no), had reached by another path, “that there are pathological conditions under which the irritability of the vaso-motor nerves, especially those of the cutaneous arteries, is abnor- mally increased.” He is only confirmed in his own view that through contraction of the cutaneous vessels from time to time there is, in fever, a restriction in the loss of heat. Ch. Baumler (ib., 179) takes up the question clinically, and thinks that it is proved unequivocally that in the height of fever, with normal heart action, the cutaneous arteries are dilated. In the first week of enteric fever, and in various other febrile conditions, at the commence- ment of typhus or variola, in pneumonia and traumatic fever, the patients present more or less redness of the skin. If the skin be lightly irritated by the finger-nail, a pale streak, commencing thirty seconds later at the point of irritation, spreads peripherally, lasts for about four minutes, and disappears as it came. The phenomenon ceases to show itself after the first few days of severe febrile states. T. Jiirgensen (‘ Die Korperwarme des G-esunden Menschen,’ Leipzig, pp. 100) has made severalthousand observations on the temperature taken in the rectum of healthy adults. He concludes that the average day temperature, under the most varied influences, is typically constant about 37'2° C. (gS'g° F.), the tendency being always to keep this mean, any fluctuation from it being followed by “ compensation.” The period of twenty-four hours shows high day, and low night, tem- peratures, the former continuing for a longer time than the latter, and beginning as a rule at 8 a.m., while the latter begin at 10 p.111. The highest day reading is about 37.340 C. (gg'2° F.); the lowest night reading about 36-94° C. (98 5 F.). The readings during the several hours of the twenty-four may vary considerably, following one of two types, which the author describes as the straight-line type, and the type of distinctly marked maximum and minimum. Taking nourish- ment elevates the temperature, “ its calculation, however, dependin-