65 MALARIAL FEVER—YELLOW FEVER. Disease in Children, probably caused by malaria ” (i. boy, set. is, “amyloid degeneration,” recovery; 2. girl, set 9, “ desquamativenepliu- tis ” recovery; 2. boy, mt. 4, “bypersemia of the kidneys, recovery), Amer. Jouin. Med Sci.,’ Kv, i,3. Grasset, ‘Etude dinique sur les affections cbromques des voies reSrntoires d'origine pah.dfenne,’ Paris, ,SJ3- U T. Booh.fontamo, Recherchcs. Experimentales relatives it la contraction do la rate a 1 action du sulphate de Quinine, Paris, 1873, pp. 11. T. Dougall, “ The febrifuge qualities of the Cinchona Alkaloids —Ciuchonia, Quinidia, and Cinchonidia,” ‘Edin. Journ.,’ xix, 193. H. Gnpat, Fievre quarte ffuerie par le melange du Sulfat de Quinine et de 1 Eau-de-vie, u • Therap. ’t. 84, p. 36. R. Fiechter, “Ueber die Wirkung des Tinct. Eucalypti globuli bei Intermittens,” ‘Dent. Arch.,’ xii, 508. Guisbert, “Assaimssement des terrains Marecagaux par l’Eucalyptus globulus,” ‘Compt. Rend.,’ lxxvn, 764. C. EurdeJ, “ L’Eucalyptus en Sologne,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ t. 84, p. 409, and t. 83^ p. 529. C. Eisenlohr, "Carbolsilure gegen Intermittens,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ i873> 4°7- B. Curschmann, “Ueber Behandlung des Wechselfiebers mit Carbolsaure, ‘Cen- tralbl.,’ 1873, 628. W. Winternitz, “Ueber den Werth der Hydrotherapie beim Wecliselfieber und bei Milztumoren,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch., i873>-^0, 22. G. Vallin, «De l’emploi du Bromure de Potassium comme adjuvant dans le traitement des fievres intermittentes,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ t. 85, p. 433. Yellow Fever. 0. Wucherer (“Einige Bemerkungen fiber das Gfelbfieber im Allgem- einen und Seine Verbreitungsweise,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ xii, 391) agrees with Pym in holding that the true home of yellow fever is^ to be sought for on the west coast of Africa, and not on the coast ot Mexico and the Antilles. He explains the fact that it is most common on coast-lines and in large populous places by the requirement ot a certain concentra- tion for the working of the poison—a concentration impossible on table-lands subject to frequent changes of wind, and in places of high elevation. He does not allow processes of organic decomposition to have any influence in the production of the disease, and thinks that its prevalence in harbours and on ship-board is due to the fact that in both are gathered together numbers of persons unacclimatised and liable to take any disease. The immunity of negroes to yellow fever is not absolute, nor is immunity (known to be acquired under certain conditions) lost by long residence in high latitudes. Wucherer looks upon the disease as contagious from person to person, as well as infec- tious, and calls attention to the repeated epidemic outbreaks of it in the Brazils some time before the year 1849. Gt. M. Sternberg submits (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ lxv, 398) what he conceives to be proof of the following propositions :—1. The yellow fever poison is not an emanation from the persons of those sick with the disease. 2. It is not generated by atmospheric or telluric influ- ences. A certain elevation of temperature is, however, necessary for its multiplication, and its rapid increase is promoted by a moist atmo- sphere, and probably by the presence of decomposing organic matter. 3. The poison is portable in ships, goods, clothing, &c., and a minute quantity is capable of giving rise to an extensive epidemic. 4. Ex- posure to a temperature of 320 E. completely destroys it. 5. It may remain for an unknown length of time in a quiescent state, when not subjected to a freezing temperature or exposed to the conditions 5