297 EXCISION OF NEEVES. were excised, eighteen months’ constant use of the eyes had thoroughly tested the value of the operation. In a case of stump neuralgia (Pirogoff) a useful limb was saved, upon which the patient could, sustain his entire weight without auy artificial appliance, by the excision, first, of the posterior tibial, and, subsequently, or the external popliteal nerve. The case of excision of the perineal _ nerve was one ol vaginal neuralgia of twelve years’ duration in a patient set. 42. I he pain was most intense, especially on pressure. All remedies had failed, including a seton above the groin. The deeper the pressure the greater the pain, and a firm cord was discovered which could be rolled about under the finger. It was fully as large as, and very much resembled, a spermatic cord, and was extremely painful to the touch. It was considered to be the perineal nerve. As the seat of pain was evidently in it, its excision was advised. A deep vertical incision brought into view the cord, which was removed to the extent of an inch.b It proved to be a dense hypertrophied nerve, otherwise not altered in structure. A year later there was no pain. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1873.) Traumatic neuralgia; section of median nerve.—Dr. S. Weir Mitchell records the case of a lady who ran a splinter into the palm of the right hand when two and a half years of age. The wound healed over. At the end of twenty years, pain came on (after injury) in the shoul- der, thumb, &c. The splinter could be felt and was removed. This did not give any relief, but rather made matters worse. Subse- quently, as pressure on the musculo-spiral gave relief, an inch of it was removed above the elbow. Cessation of pain, &c., followed. The sense of touch was not interfered with. The pain returned on the eighth day after the operation. A little more than a year later she came under Dr. Mitchell’s care. The symptoms are detailed most carefully in every respect. The pain, sensitiveness to touch, &c., were intense. Believing that all the symptoms were dependent on mischief in the median, a portion of this above the wrist was removed, and the lower end of the exposed nerve was turned in a transverse direction into the tissues and fixed there. The nerve ends retracted greatly. The relief was complete. The author remarks on the case at length. The trouble began when the point where the splinter lay was struck. It is difficult to say what was the nature of the process then set up, but it was certainly irritative in character and was suddenly made worse by the operation in which the foreign body was removed. This irritation produced remote effects. The fact that no loss of sensation resulted from section of the musculo-spiral was probably due to other nerves overrunning the territory of the musculo-spiral. The thermo- metric observations are given. There was increased heat at first- coldness afterwards. The microscopic appearances in the portion of nerve removed are noted. The changes began in the nerve-fibres themselves. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1874.) Case of exsection of the brachial 'plexus of nerves for the relief of painful neuroma of the shin.—In a case of neuroma of the skin of the arm, previously recorded by Dr. Duhring, Dr. Maury removed the cords of the brachial plexus for the relief of the pain, It was expected