REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 30 The regeneration of the nerves has been studied by A. Vulpian,1 Zuppinger,2 aud Carville and Rochefontaine,3 for other papers on the nervous system see A. Pansch,4 J. Luys,5 L. Stieda,6 S. Mayer,7 L. Ranvier,8 and Arndt.9 MM. Arloing and Tripier10 continue their ob- servations on the physiology of the pneumogastric nerves. The general conclusions to which they have arrived are—i. That the section of the spinal cord behind the medulla oblongata causes considerable diminu- tion in the excitability of the vagi. 2. That there exists a well-marked difference between the two vagi in regard to their functional activity ; the right acting more energetically than the left upon the heart, whilst the left acts more energetically than the right in regard to the mecha- nical phenomena of respiration. 3. The excitation of the cut surface of the vagi is more effective in arresting the action of the heart than galvanization of the intact nerves. 4. Galvanization of the peripheric cut surface stops the heart in diastole, whilst galvanization of the central cut surface tends to arrest it in systole; whence it results that the action of the vagi on the heart is of a peculiar regulating kind. 5. The movements of the heart during galvanization of the vagi are more feeble than before excitation, but the pulse is larger, because the tension of the arterial system is reduced. 6. Galvanization of the peripheric extremity produces an effect upon the respiratory movements, probably because the vagi send recurrent fibres towards the periphery. 7. Section of one vagus is followed by diminution of the movements of the corresponding thoracic wall. 8. Lastly, no evidence can be obtained showing that one vagus rather than the other affects the function of digestion. J. L. Prevost,11 in a paper on the gustatory function of the lingual, gives the following as the results of his inquiries:—1. The ablation of the two spheno-palatine ganglia in the dog and cat does not produce any noticeable alteration in regard to the gustatory functions of those parts of the tongue that are supplied by the lingual nerve. 2. After section of both chordae tympani in dogs and cats deprived of the glosso- pharyngeal nerves the taste has been in some cases scarcely altered, in others considerably diminished, and in one case apparently abolished. M. Prevost’s results do not enable him to specify the exact role that 1 Brown-Sequard’s ‘Archives de Physiologic/ 1874, p. 704-714. ‘ M. Schultze’s Archiv f. Mik. A nut./ B. x, p. 255. “ Eine Methode Axencylmder- ... 1 /N 1 • IT T I ^.1- « » .ft ft ft ..I. ft F... 4 ft... />». n4lll HAT! '7 Ganglion premier fortsiitze der Ganglien-zellen des Ruckenmarks zu demoustriren » ‘Gaz. Med. de Paris/ 1874, No. 19. “De P Ablation du thoracique du Grand Sympathique chez le Ckien.” . -i Abstract in ‘ Centralblatt/ 1874, P* 243- “Ueber die Purchuug am Grossbirn des Menscben und der Saugethiere.” 5 ‘ Physiologic de Cerveau. Pamphlet. G Stieda, “ Ueber den Bau des Riickenmarks der Ha'ie und der Rochen, in the Zeiu- schrift f. Wiss. Zool./ B. xxiii, p. 435" „ , , , 7 ‘ Wien. Akad. Anzeiger/ 1873, P- 52. “Zur Lehre von der Structur der Spmal- ganglien und der Peripherischen Nerven.” 8 ‘ Comptes rendus/ 1873, t. lxxvii, p. 1299. la Moelle Epiniere.” B ‘ Max Schultze’s Archiv f. Mic. Anat./ B. x, Ganglienkorper des Nervus Sympathicus.” 10 Brown-Sequard’s ‘ Archives de Physiologie/ 1873, t. 11 Brown-Sequard’s ‘Archives de Physiologie/ 1873, p. Sur les Elements Conjonctifs de “ Untersuchungen iiber die p. 208. v, p. 157-175* 253-280 and 375-388.