476 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. depressed till it reached sufficiently near to the minute opening in the hymen to admit of the spontaneous movements of the spermatozoa enabling them to reach the uterus. Spontaneous delivery of a child after the death of the mother.— M. Louis Penard1 has presented an elaborate and detailed report on this subject to the Medico-Legal Society of Paris, a propos of a case of alleged post-mortem accouchement communicated to the Society by Dr. Subert, of Nevers. The reasoning of the report is not new, though it is highly interesting and instructive, as embodying a r6sumc of all the similar cases previously published. The case communicated by Dr. Subert is also of much interest, and is as follows: A servant girl died after an illness of eight days. The physician in at- tendance at first diagnosed pneumonia,and afterwards intermittent fever. He was then summoned suddenly, and found the girl writhing upon the bed. As a blister had been applied, he suspected cantharadic cystitis. He passed a catheter, and discovered a five months’ pregnancy, but from external palpation only. Half an hour later the girl died. He found no external signs of commencing labour, except a slight moistness of the vulva ; but he made no vaginal examination. The woman who laid out the corpse asserted that there were no stains on the body linen worn by the deceased. Two days later, on raising the corpse for the purpose of placing it in the coffin, a foetus, ioi inches in length, fell from between the thighs of the corpse. There were no remains of the cord attached to the umbilicus, and the detachment of the body from that of the mother was complete. The everted uterus, 8 inches long and 6^ wide, with the placenta and cord (18 inches in length) lay between the thighs of the mother, and coils of the small intestines lay within the cavity formed by the peritoneal surface of the womb. Most remarkably, it is not mentioned that there was any gas distending the abdominal cavity. Infanticide. Fractures of the foetal skull.—B. Wiebecke2 contributes a valuable and exhaustive memoir on this interesting and obscure subject. He appears to have collected all the interesting cases and opinions bearing upon the subject which have been published in Germany. The essay is a perfect repertoire of facts, and although it does not contain much original matter it will well repay the perusal of the medical jurist. Atelectasis.—Dr. Pincus3 4 relates an interesting and, as he thinks, perhaps an unexampled case of extensive atelectasis in a viable child, born at the full term. The child lived at least six hours after its birth. The atelectasis of the lungs was pretty general, but little of them floating in water, and the body exhibited the usual signs of suffocation in a marked degree. . . Docimasia,puhnoniom.—M. A. Devergie^ has re-examined this test ot 1 ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ t. xx.xix, p. 213. 2 ‘ Vrtljhrsschr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,’ N. F., xiv, p. 86. 3 Ibid., 1873, p. 9. 4 ‘ Ann. d’Hyg.,’ t. xxxviii, p. 169.