3 ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. inner half, they showed that the deeper parts of the glands contain more pepsin than the superficial. In a particular experiment the infusion of a piece of the membrane of a certain size dissolved 0341 of a gramme of boiled white of egg ; the infusion of the superficial half of a similarly sized piece, when shaved off, dissolved 0*252 gramme, and the deeper part 0*511 gramme. Braun1 gives evidence to show that the stomach secretes the gastric juice, not intermittingly, but continuously. He has not been able to decide whether division of one or both splanchnics causes increase of the secretion of the gastric juice, since, though this occurred once or twice in a well-marked manner after such division, yet it also sometimes occurred in tlm course of his experiments without appreciable cause. B. Lepine,2 from experiments made with a view of deter- mining whether the peptic cells of the stomach secrete an acid, has satisfied himself that the acid is thrown out on the free surface, and is not formed in the cells. ^* -Etzniger0 shows that bone-dust, cartilage, and tendon, are all capable of undergoing digestion, since under their use the amount of urea rises. Moriggia j has shown, from the examination of more than 100 embryos, chiefly of cattle, that the stomach possesses a digestive power on its own tissues at the sixth and fifth, and even at the fourth and mcHoti ° £fta , 1C- The sahvai7 glands, however, have no action at b'rth. This, however, is contested by Schiffer and Korowin.^ Ihe bile-formmg power of the liver begins early. Moriggia finds liquor arnnii constantly in the stomach, and amniotic epithelium constantly °n the meconium • hence lie thinks the fluid is constantly swallowed. 7 bee also v. Luttich,6 0. G-reve,7 0. Nasse,8 and v. Wittich.9 Intestines.—Mr. Watney10 finds connective-tissue-corpuscles amongst the columnar epithelial cells of the intestinal tract o^manTanimals (monkey, sheep, cat, dog rat, rabbit). The cells are round7and nu- S thaT formed V H ** IeticulT observable which is continuous th that formed by the most superficial layer of connective tissue corpuscles—basement membrane. This is the tiff T • J of the stomach, on the villi over Peyer’s patches an/ if? P^ic “<1 Eckhaicl s Beitrage/ Band vii n 2 < r< it u”ddBS G"^rdl‘fc * a diB 10 einmal die Pvlorusdriispn ” < pik;—a.. < ’ , • ‘I P* 543- --Nooh einmal die P^SZen “ ** ... Proceed. Itoy. Soc.,’ 1874, vol. xxii, p. 293. ’ 8'4, B' T1“’ P’ 444.