285 NEW OPERATION IN ANCHYLOSIS OF ELBOW. iu the opposite diagonal direction, so as to cut off the external condyle and capitulum of the humerus from the shaft. (5) The truncated and angular end of the humerus to be cleared, turned out throug 1 e incision, and smoothed across at right angles to the line of the sia by means of the saw, whereby (6) room might be afforded so t ia , partly by twisting, partly by dissection, the external condyle and capi- tulum are removed without any division of the cutaneous. tissues on the outer side of the arm. Dr. "Watson has practised, this mode or operation in six cases. The merits of the operation, which is believed to be original, consists—1. In leaving the attachments of the triceps and brachialis undisturbed, affording, therefore, a degree of leverage in the movements of the forearm which cannot be attained when the olecranon or any portion of the upper end of the ulna are interfered with or removed. 2. In limiting the area of operation almost exclu- sively to within the capsular ligament of the elbow-joint, which seems to secure more speedy healing of the wound than would otherwise occur. 3. In securing, by the line of the incision being internal and posterior, less ultimate surface deformity, a more direct drain for dis- charge, and a more ready access to the ulnar nerve, than by any other method. The procedure does not afford a ready access to the external lateral ligament, but this is of little importance if the condyles of the humerus^ be obliquely divided from above downwards, so as to cut through the articular surface by means of bone pliers between the trochlea and capitulum of the humerus ; if the capitulum and external condyle be cut off obliquely from the shaft by means of pliers applied from below upwards; if the end of the shaft be turned out, and as much of its truncated and conical extremity be cut off as may be deemed requisite, and, lastly, if the capitulum and external condyle be dissected and twisted away from their remaining ligamentous and other attachments. The operation may be difficult or impossible in cases of complete bony anchylosis, but these are very rare, and then the ordinary operation may be performed. Forcible flexion and extension under chloroform will, in the majority of cases, break down adhesions. If not, a transverse section of the humerus with bone pliers through the condyles, excision of a portion of bone above this level, and piecemeal excision of the anchylosed condyles themselves by means of the forceps and gouge, would afford an alternative means calculated to remove all ordinary difficulties. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1873.) Excision of the wrist.—Mr. Sydney Jones performed Lister’s opera- tion in the case of a man, set. 42. The after progress was good. A sinus remained open for some months, but finally closed after the re- moval of some necrosed bone. The movement of the thumb towards the fingers was very considerable, and the fingers also possessed con- siderable movement. (‘St. Thos. Hosp. Rep.,’ iii, 1872, 280.) Splint with a movable (central) portion.—Dr. Packard describes and figures a bracketed splint for excision of the knee, &c. The advantage is that a portion at the middle (or any other part of the splint) is made to slide in and out, and can be removed for convenience of dress- ing any wound. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vii, 96.) The results of resection of joints in military practice.—In a paper