Apocynaceas. 483 inonobromobenzol) the action of the bromine is modified by the other elements with which it is associated. Trimethylamine. ■—This organic base has recently been extensively used on the Continent.1 Dr. Andhoui2 thus summarises its physio- logical and therapeutical actions: i, Trimethylamine influences the oxidation processes going on in the organism, and diminishes the excretion of urea; 2, it slows the circulation, and diminishes the animal temperature ; 3, trimethylamine exercises a sedative action on the nervous system, and alleviates gouty and rheumatic pains in the joints. Chiomnthus Virginica.—Dr. Washington,3 of Macon, Georgia, writes in the ‘ Pacific Journal of Medicine,’ that in the treatment of diseases of the liver we should place Cliionanthus Virginica, or old man’s beard, first on our list of remedies. He states that in all the various forms of liver complaint incident to malarial poisoning its action as a liver regenerator is undoubted; that it is useful where digestion is enfeebled or nutrition is impaired, and where the bowels are constipated or too loose. In dropsical affections, jaundice, and malarial cachexia, it is stated to be the remedy par excellence. Cer- tainly if it possesses all the virtues attributed to it by Dr. Washington, Cliionanthus Virginica is a valuable adjunct to our repertory of drugs. Hydrastis Canadensis.—This plant, the golden seal, has been recently added to the II. S. Pharmacopoeia. It has been reported on by Dr. Van der Espt.4 The rhizome is the part of the plant used in pharmacy. In it two alkaloids have been found—berberine and hydrastine, and the presence of a third has been asserted.5 Berberine is also present in calumba, and other roots used for tinctures. Hydrastine produces numbness in the mouth, and is used as a local anaesthetic in America; or, rather, an impure hydrochlorate of berberine and hydrastine. Hydrastine is said to be beneficial in atony and increased secretion of the mucous surfaces. Apocynacece.—This natural order of plants has recently added a new remedy to medicine. H. Hildwein6 reports on this drug from the Ecliises (?) scholaris, a tree growing in the Philippines, where its bark is used under the name of dita by the natives as a febrifuge. G. Gruppe, an apothecary in Manilla, states that he has obtained from it a bitter hygroscopic substance, which he has named ditain. Dr. Zina, of Manilla, finds that this substance is a perfect substitute for quinine when administered in similar doses, that it is an efficient tonic, and that it does not produce the unpleasant effects which follow the use of quinine. Ditain may be extracted from dita bark to the extent of two per cent. It appears to merit a more careful chemical and physio- logical investigation. 1 Vide ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ clix, p. 24. 2 ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 2 ser. x, 7, 1873. 3 ‘ Lond. Med. Rec.,’ 1, p. 553. 4 1 L’Union Pham.,’ xiii, p. 321; ‘Lond. Med. Rec. ’ 1, p. 5 ‘Amer. Journ. Pbarm.,’ [4], iii, p. 247. 6 ‘ Ztscbr. Allgm. Oestrch., Apot.—Ver,’ xi, p. 249; ‘ London Med. Rec.,’ i, p. 571.