210 REPORT ON SURGERY. gentleman who died in a comatose state continuing after the administra- tion of ether, advises that chloroform should be given to very old people, and ether avoided. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ March 8, 1873.) A new double current inhaler for administering ether.—Mr. J. T. Clover describes and figures a new inhaler for administering ether. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ March 13, 1873.) Anaesthetics.—Mr. J. T. Clover makes some general remarks on the production of sleep during surgical operations, the anaesthetics at our disposal, and the means of administering them. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Beb. 14, 1874.) Aneurism of the vertebral artery.—Mr. Holmes (Lectures, College of Surgeons) says there is no case of spontaneous aneurism of the vertebral on record. Traumatic aneurisms are not so very uncommon. There are eleven cases on record in which the carotid has been tied for wound or aneurism of the vertebral, of course with no advantage. He tabulates these cases. If pressure be applied as low as two inches above the clavicle, the carotid and vertebral may both be compressed. If pressure higher up does not stop the pulsation you may conclude that the vertebral is affected. The carotid tubercle (anterior tubercle of transverse process of sixth cervical vertebra) is higher than is generally supposed. It is two to three inches above the upper border of the clavicle. He sums up as follows:—(1) Atraumatic aneurism may be taken to be vertebral when it is situated in the course of that vessel, and when its pulsations are not commanded by compression of the lower part of the common carotid. (2) When a traumatic aneurism is situated as above, and its pulsations are commanded, however com- pletely, by pressure on the common carotid low in the neck, it ought not to be treated as being carotid, or as affecting a branch of the carotid, unless it is clearly proved that its pulsations are stopped by pressure applied above the level at which the vertebral ceases to be compressible—i.e. above Chassaignac’s “carotid tubercle.” (3) An aneurism diagnosed as vertebral may be treated by compression (gradual or rapid, as the case demands) of the root ot the vertebral artery in the neck, if this is found feasible. (4) If indirect compression will not stop the pulsation, or if it cannot be borne, the tumour should, be subjected to direct compression and refrigeration, to \Vhich internal remedies may be added, and possibly the subcutaneous injection of ergotine may be of use. (5) It these means fail, and the tumour appears likely to burst, or if it has burst, the sac should be opened with all due precaution and an attempt made to tie or plug the wounded artery. (6) A wound known or suspected to be ot the vertebral artery should be treated either by direct pressure or by ligature of the vessel in the wound. (‘ Lancet,’ July 26, 1873.) Orbital aneurism.—Mr. Holmes (Lectures, College of Surgeons), after dealing with the subject in detail, sums up to the effect that Travers’ original assumption that orbital aneurism is usually anasto- motic has been conclusively refuted. Aneurisms by anastomosis some- times affect the vessels of the orbit, but their symptoms are quite different from those of the disease now in question. It has been shown beyond denial that some of these aneurisms are of the arterio-venous