346 REPORT ON SURGERY. in two cases, in both with success. A longitudinal section was first made in the fold of the anus over the bade of the coccyx, which was removed ; the incision wasthen carried towards the anus, and the diseased structure extirpated. The parts were so accessible that bleeding vessels could be tied at once, and the diseased glands on the posterior wall of the rectum were readily extirpated. Incontinence of faeces was obviated by pressing the buttocks together. (‘ Centralblatt fiir ChirurgieNo. ip, 1874.) Treatment of non-malignant stricture of the rectum by incision and dilatation.—Dr. Lente narrates a case in which he divided a long close stricture freely, anteriorly and posteriorly. Afterwards, the stricture was treated by a Whitehead’s dilator (see last ‘Retrospect’) modified by the author. It resembles a small (india-rubber) umbrella distensible by water through a tube provided with a tap. The improvements con* Bisted in making the central stem stronger and with a blunter point so as not to injure the rectum. The quantity of water injected was steadily increased from time to time. The central stem, if not flexible, should have a curve to adapt itself to the curve of the sacrum, and the part gripped by the sphincter must not be large. Dr. Lente reviews the opinions of authors in reference to incising strictures of the rectum. The balance is decidedly against such interference. The author, how- ever, is a strong advocate for incisions, and thinks our improved appli- ances will enable us to deal with any haemorrhage which is likely to occur. The use of bougies, it must be remembered, has dangers of its own, and authors all recommend caution in their employment. Dr. Lente is in favour of pretty free division. Although he can adduce but one case of his own, a more formidable one for operation could scarcely have presented itself where any operation short of colotomy would be thought of; the patient’s general health being greatly impaired, the stricture unusually close, entirely undilatable, not admitting the finger as a guide, its linear extent and great irregularity and nodular condition giving it much the character of what is commonly diagnosed as a can- cerous stricture. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1873.) Venereal stricture of the rectum.—Dr. Mason writes on this subject. He is not of opinion that the strictures of the rectum commonly met with in women are due to constitutional syphilis, but thinks they are the result of local and non-infecting chancroids. The way in which these strictures arise may be—1. The walls of the rectum become inoculated through the secretions from the sores upon the vulva, thus giving rise to chancroid ulcers in this portion of intestine, and from the cicatrisa- tion of these ulcers the constriction takes place. 2. The presence of chancroids either at the orifice of the vagina, or about the anus, gives rise to an inflammation of 'the areolar tissue surrounding the lower portion of the gut, and, by the effusion of inflammatory material at certain points, gives rise to constriction, either in this way alone, or by indirectly producing inflammation and ulceration of the mucous coat of the bowel. 3. From direct inoculation through improper connection— that this may occur none will deny; but the author had never met with an example. A table of thirty-one cases of venereal strictures of the rectum is given. In fifteen cases, there had been no symptoms