495 SMALLfOX. of1 contamination of chinking waters—in one case by refuse from a sugar factory grape sugar and unusual quantities of common salt being formed with water, which had an offensive odour ; in another instance by coal-gas. In a third by sulpho-glyceric acid from the manufacture of stearin candles ; in a fourth by salts of manganese ; and in a fifth by the urine of cows, urea being actually extracted in quantity from the water *Disinfection of the Morgue in Paris.—This establishment for the reception of the dead bodies taken from the Seine is now found1 to be more effectually disinfected by the use of a solution of carbolic acid in water (i-20ooth) than formerly by the abundant use of charcoal; and at three fourths the expense previously incurred. Influence of violet light upon growth.—M. Poey2 details striking facts relative to the favorable influence exercised upon the growth of animals and vegetables by violet light. It having been observed that the growth of vines was greatly promoted, and the crop of grapes largely increased, by growing the plants beneath violet glass, animals—pigs and calves— were reared beneath similarly coloured glass ; and comparative trials were made with coloured and uncoloured glass. It was found that the animals kept beneath the violet glass increased much more rapidly in size and weight than those beneath uncoloured glass. Smallpox. Smallpox propagated by vaccination.—An interesting outbreak of variola propagated by vaccination has been brought under notice by Dr. Alex. Collie.3 There is little doubt that variolous virus was in the first instance inoculated along with vaccine virus, although the child that serve to vaccinate the first vaccinifer was said to be free from smallpox eruption. The following outline, of a vaccination bill has been published at Konigsberg, and has been drawn up by Prof. Bohn, and Drs. J. Moller and Pincus. It is valuable as embodying the principles of measures which German sanitarians recommend, guided by continental ex- perience. i. Every child that has attained the age of three months shall be vaccinated before it shall have reached the age of one year. Voluntary vaccination of children under three months of age shall be permitted. On the outbreak of an epidemic of smallpox § 12 shall be put in force. _ 2. Parents, foster-parents, and guardians of children liable to vac- cination shall have them vaccinated within the proper legal period, or shall furnish to the police the certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner, stating on what medical grounds the child is not in a fit state for the performance of vaccination. A definite release from vaccination shall be granted (1) when the child has been efficiently 1 < 2 < 3 < 4 ( Ann. d'Hyg./ t. xxiv, p. 320. ‘ Jouru. cles Connais. Med.,” quoted in ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ t. xxxix, p. 420. Loud. Med. Rec.,’ p. 637, quoted from ‘Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg/ July, i874j Strieker’s Jahrb.,’ f. 1871, p. 336. '4