182 REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. results of sphygmographic tracings, his interpretation of which is that even in the early stage of acute nephritis such an impediment to the circulation may occur from altered quality of the blood that the arterial pressure is increased and the heart’s contraction made more laborious. If this be true it is easy to understand that this state of things, if continued long enough, will cause the muscular walls both of heart and arteries to become hypertrophied. F. Samuelsohn records (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lix, 257) three cases (two in the text and one in an appendix) of what he considers to be hereditary Bright’s disease, and explains them on the ground that there is in these cases a congenital malformation of the blood-vascular system. W. H. Barlow remarks (‘Lancet,’ 1874, ii, 131) on the occurrence of granular contracted kidney in a girl not six years old. A few months before death she had convulsions, the urine was albuminous, there was sickness and headache, and finally coma. Both kidneys were very small, especially the right, granular on the surface, with increase of the interstitial tissue and decrease of the cortical substance, to- gether with one or two small cysts in the left organ. These naked- eye appearances were perfectly confirmed on microscopic examination. The heart was large, the left ventricle hypertrophied and dilated ; during life there had never been anasarca. The writer enlarges at length on the opinions of various writers on Bright’s disease. W. LI. Dickinson (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ lvi, 223) writes on the so- called “ surgical kidney,” a peculiar suppurative condition produced, as he shows, by the contact of unhealthy urine. Of all renal disorders, next to the varieties of albuminuria, it is the most destructive to life. After referring to the published views of Bayer, Brodie, Hawkins, and Wilks, he describes the naked-eye and microscopical appearances of the organs affected. The morbid change essentially consists of a peculiar turgidity and friability of the renal tissue, with the forma- tion of small scattered abscesses, or soft yellow deposits antecedent to abscesses, throughout its structure. The cones usually display sharply defined white lines—distended tubes. With this condition the microscope shows more or less dilatation of the straight tubes, distension or morbid occupation of the associated blood-vessels, and disseminated intertubular suppuration, the distribution of which is regulated by the course of the veins. Plates are added to the text, illustrating well the microscopical appearances. Taking the structural changes in their mutual relation, the dilatation of the tubular exits, the morbid occupation of the veins, and the general absence of signs of tubal inflammation, the nature of the process is clear. The disorder has its origin in the regurgitation of urine charged with morbific pro- ducts, this distends or occupies the straight ducts, and thence by transudation, or similarly, enters the. neighbouring blood-vessels, charo-ino- them with infective matter, which is distributed by the veins to the rest of the gland ; and this resulting condition of the kidney may be described as one of pymmia arising within itself. As to the primary contamination of the urine, the writer has collected the par- ticulars of 69 cases from the post-mortem books of St. George s Hospital. He finds that three conditions usually concur—retention,