EXOSTOSIS—LESION OE THE SPINAL COED. b5l tumour to remove it. In such a case as the present one, there is always risk of implicating the knee during the operation. To run such a risk, when we consider how little annoyance the tumour was giving t e patient, was, in his opinion, unjustifiable. The result justified the ex- pectant treatment of the case. (‘Edin. Med. Jourm,’ July, 1874.) Subcutaneous fracture of an exostosis.—In a case ol exostosis ot the outer part of the left thigh, close to the knee-joint, Mr. Maunder carried out the manoeuvre of breaking the tumour oft subcutaneously. The patient was a girl aged 16. The integument over the tumour was covered by a piece of leather and the growth laid hold of with a large pair of pliers, and broken off with comparative and unexpected facility. (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Aug. 8th, 1874.) In the journal for Nov. 7th it is noted that the exostosis had reunited, but in a much less incon- venient position than before the operation. It then projected outwardly in a marked degree, and could not be handled without causing the girl great pain. It also prevented extension of the leg upon the thigh and thus rendered the patient comparatively helpless. The head of the tumour subsequently became displaced inwards, was absolutely free from tenderness, and the girl had perfect use of the limb. (‘ Lancet,’ July 25 and Nov. 7, 1874.) Lesion of the upper dorsal spinal marrow icith excessive lowering of temperature and pulse. — Dr. Nieden records in detail a case of injury to the upper part of the back with loss of consciousness for a short time, complete paralysis of the lower extremities, of the chest, and of the greater part of the trunk, Stranguria. Progressive lowering of temperature and pulse. Consciousness perfect till the temperature was as low as 8i° and the pulse 30 per min. Death on the eleventh day after the injury with a temperature of 8o'6°. P.-m.—Dislocation without fracture of the first dorsal vertebra, compression of the corresponding portion of the spinal marrow, congestion of the lungs and of all the ab- dominal organs ; heart distended with fluid blood ; other parts of the body normal. The patient was 60 years of age. To account for lowering of temperature in injury to the spinal cord, various theories have been held. One makes it depend on position; another, extent of damage. Neither seems really to account for the phenomenon and the pathology so far remains perfectly obscure. “We shall understand our case better if we forget at present the hypothesis of a centre of heat and suppose that the cause of the anomaly of temperature is to be found in the want of proportion which exists between the proportion and loss of heat in a body disturbed in all its organs by such an injury to the nerve centre.” When animals are covered over the whole surface of the body with varnish or oil colour they suffer from the same excessive sinking of tem- perature caused only by the enormous loss of heat on the surface of those animals. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. vi, 1873.) A case somewhat similar to this came under the care of Mr. Hutchin- son at the London Hospital in November last. A man jet. 24 fell from a height with a load of bricks on his shoulder. When seen the day after, there was complete paralysis of the lower extremities. The line of anesthesia extended as high as an inch above the nipple and to the elbows. He could flex the elbows (biceps) but not extend. The