156 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. and the callous growths in. both cases found to be looser and more recent than those in Griesinger’s. In both the pericardium was uni- versally adherent to the neighbouring organs; in the youth the ascending aorta was so compressed as to admit only the little linger, in the woman the growth had extended along the vessels to the trachea and oesophagus. Bouchut publishes (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1873, 1130) the following;—A girl, aged a year and a half, had had, six weeks before, a pleurisy of the left side, which had left behind it a pleuritic rub at the base and an enormous quantity of effusion in the pericardium. The latter was punctured eight times, after which the patient died. The autopsy showed the presence of 800 grammes of sanious fluid in the pericardial cavity ; mitral vegetations ; swelling and redness of the aortic valves ; general pleural adhesions, with semitransparent granulations on the sur- face of the pleurae; abdominal adhesions. The writer remarks on the case and its diagnosis at length, and as a result of his observations gives the following among other conclusions:—Pericarditis with con- siderable effusion is not always an effect of tuberculosis; paracentesis should be performed in the fifth intercostal space close to the median line, the aspirator being preferred to a large trocar ; small wounds of the heart are not dangerous. Paracentesis of the pericardium is very often only a means of putting off death for a time. S. H. Chapman (‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1873, 115) describes and gives woodcuts of the appearance of the endothelium in the healthy peri- cardium of batrachia, and the changes produced in it by opening the sac and irritating it. The cells of the endothelium swell up and then disappear, their place being taken by pus-cells and inflammatory cells. Other cells, resembling those of the endothelium, presented processes, and contained nuclei in stages of division. Oekonomides, “ Tier Fiille von Synechia Pericardii,” Diss. Berl., 1873, pp. 32. Eisenlohr, “ Ein Fall von Pyopneumopericardie ” (empyema opening into pericardium), ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1873, 472. Farquharson, “ Case of Traumatic Pericarditis, with Hasmato-thorax” (boy, set. 16, recovery), ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1873, i, 491. Bartleet, “ Pericarditis with Effusion, aspiration of pericardium, immediate relief and ultimate recovery” (youth, set. 20, acute rheumatism), ‘Lancet,’ 1874, ii, 866. Cory, “Case of Secondary Abscess following a Strangulated Omental Hernia, bursting into the pericardium ” (man, set. 32, abscess between upper surface of left lobe of liver and diaphragm, with small opening in latter from abscess to pericardium), ib. ib., i, 762. Diseases of Myocardium. T. H. Green records a case (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxv, 47) of fibroid induration of the heart in a man, aet. 52, who had died suddenly, and of whom no previous history could be obtained. The organ was very much enlarged, weighing 20£ oz. The left ventricle was much dilated, its walls measuring from half to three quarters of an inch in thickness, and cutting almost like a piece of tendon. The endocardium was con- siderably thickened, and opaque ; the papillary muscles were almost completely converted into fibroid tissue. The right ventricle was also thickened; the valves were normal, there was general atheroma of the vessels, and the kidneys were slightly grauular. The microscope showed development of fibroid tissue round the blood-vessels in the inter-