444 RE POET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. open the tumour and the removal of the hydatid is the only treatment to employ. (‘Bevue des Sc. Med./ Jan. 1875.) V. The Infant. Dr. Kezmarszky writes (‘ Archiv fur Gynak./ v, 3, 1873) ou the alteration in weight of mature new-horn children. He made two series of observations during the years 1871-2 upon this subject. lie gives the following conclusions as the result of his observations:—(1) All children lose in weight the first few days after birth. (2) The loss takes place in the first few hours after birth, but then for a time the weight may remain the same if an abundant supply of food be given before the intestines and bladder have been emptied; exceptionally, even, there may be an increase of weight, which, however, does not last beyond the sixth hour of life. (3) The increase in the weight begins, as a rule, on the second or third day. (4) The loss is more sudden than the gain, so that up till the seventh day the gain has been scarcely more than half the previous loss. (5) The beginning of the increase of weight has no connection with the separation of the stump of the umbilical cord. (6) Boys begin to increase in weight, on the average, earlier than girls; they probably lose slightly less, and show a greater gain than the latter; also a larger number of boys reach their original weight in the same period of time. (7) The growth is more marked in children of pluriparse than in those of primiparse. Dr. And. v. Huttenbrenner (‘Jahrb. fur Kmderheilk./ viii, 1, 1873) gives a report of three cases of tetanus neonatorum which were treated by chloral hydrate, two of which were cured ; from these cases he draws the following conclusions:—(1) That tetanus is not an abso- lutely fatal disease. (2) That tetanus may run its course either with or without fever; that those cases which are accompanied with high fever and run a rapid course are the cases where the tetanic symptoms are probably only a part of the symptoms of a general blood-poisoning; whilst the other non-febrile cases are only to be looked upon as reflex convulsions dependent upon peripheral irritation. (3) With regard to prognosis the cases without fever are the most favorable, although a high degree of fever does not necessarily render the prognosis fatal. (4) Hydrate of chloral is by no means a specific against tetanus, yet it is to be preferred to other medicines (1) because it is a pure hypnotic; (2) because it has not the disagreeable after-effects of morphia, nor does it cause hyperaemia of the brain; (3) because it can be easily administered to the child. Dr. A. Stadfeldt writes on trismus neonatorum. He gives a statistical account of the disease for twenty years ; he has noticed a remarkable diminution of late years. He gives an account of 93 fatal cases out of 20,806 births. Sex does not present any particular disposition to trismus (the numbers were 31 boys and 42 gii’ls); nor is it favoured by the duration of labour. Dr. Stadfeldt denies that trismus neonatorum is more frequently met with in puerperal epidemics than when such are absent, and appeals to his tables in support of this. In Scandinai ia the disposition to trismus is least in winter and greatest in the months