450 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. proof of phosphorus poisoning. With these conclusions, we doubt not, English medical jurists wall concur. Arsenic.—The annual returns received at the ‘ Mining Record ’ office show that 5449 tons of arsenic were produced in England in the year 1873. More than a third of it came from the Devon Great Consols Mine. The Commissioners who have been for some years inquiring into the pollution of rivers state1 that at this mine the general drainage from the dressing-floors and the tanks in which the copper is precipi- tated was found upon analysis of samples collected by them to contain a very much larger proportion of arsenic than the maximum they would allow upon admission into any stream—no less, indeed, than C42 grain per gallon of water, their suggested standard permitting only o'o35 part; but this drainage is not discharged directly into the Tamar, but is first mixed with a very large volume of water used in the mine for power only. At this time the mundic or arsenical pyrites is utilised for the manufacture of arsenious acid. It is roasted in a current of air, and thereby converted into marketable arsenious acid, and of this, at the time of the Commissioners’ visit of inspection, as much as 165 tons—some- times 200 tons—were, as they are informed, being sold in a month. They regard it as a startling reflection that, even at the lower rate of sale, there would leave this single mine every month a quantity of white arsenic sufficient to destroy the lives of more than 500 millions of human beings. The Commissioners saw stored in the warehouses of the mine, ready packed for sale, a quantity of white arsenic probably sufficient to destroy every living animal upon the face of the earth. They add that it is perhaps still more startling to reflect that there is at present no efficient law to prevent many fold this amount of this deadly material from being cast every month into the rivers and watercourses of this country; not, it is true, to expend its poisonous energy at once, for the mundic is insoluble in water, but, by its slow decomposition, to render rivers so treated poisonous and uninhabitable for fish for many generations. The Commissioners consider that in the case of mines upon which arsenic is actually manufactured it is only reasonable that (as is now the case with the retail sale of this article) the manufacture of a poison so virulent should be subject to special State supervision, and they submit that an officer should be empowered to require that the best practical means be taken, not only to prevent the poisoning of the air by the volatilization of the arsenic, but also to hinder the access of the poison to running water. They are driven to this special recommenda- tion because it is impossible to prevent altogether the occurrence of the poison in the effluent water of such mines, and there is no practic- able method of removing it from the water once contaminated so as to bring the proportion below the maximum named in their proposed table of standards of impurity which may be allowed in effluent mine water admitted into rivers and streams. A single officer would probably do to inspect all such establishments in the United Kingdom. Chromic arsenical 'poisoning.—Malmsten*2 relates a highly interesting 1 ‘ Fifth Rep. of the River Pollution Commissioners ’ (Blue Book). 2 ‘ Hygiea/' 1873; ‘Nord. Med. Arch.,5 1874-