314 REPORT ON SURGERY. spontaneously or under slight pressure. In reducing it the escape of air could be perceived by the finger ; but no sound was produced. The difficulty of reduction increased with the duration of the swelling, and to the end of the patient’s life it remained as a visible tumour as large as a hen’s egg. His voice was like that of a woman. lie said that the tumour first appeared during the act of vomiting. As he had suffered for many years from frequent attacks of bronchial catarrh, the origin of the swelling might bo due to the repeated paroxysms of coughing. In a second case, a child a year and a half old, with a congenital de- formity of the lower jaw and lip, and of the neck and sternum, had a swelling of the neck, regarding which it was uncertain whether it was a dilatation of the internal jugular vein or a hernia of the tracheal mucous membrane. On performing a plastic operation it was found that there was a tumour unconnected with the vessels, along with a tracheocele. The latter was produced by exertion, receded sponta- neously, and could also be reduced. It was diagnosed to be the result of a congenital defect in the lining membrane of the trachea. Pneumothorax following perforation of the rectum by a vine pole. —Rosenberger relates in the ‘ Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift,’ April 6, 1874, the case of a boy, £et. 15, who fell from a tree on a vine pole, which passed about 13 inches into the rectum. He drew it out and returned home. The next day he had slight meteorism, but no pain in the abdomen; there was pneumothorax on the left side, limited to the lower half of the chest. This increased during some days, then the chest became rapidly filled with fluid, which, however, soon decreased. The patient’s general condition was good and his temperature normal. After fourteen days of apparent improvement, the patient being able to sit up daily for some hours, he was suddenly seized with severe pain in the left chest and violent fever; the exuda- tion increased, and the patient gradually sank and died on the thirty- seventh day after the injury. On post-mortem examination there was found to be pericardial exudation ; the left lung was compressed, and gangrenous in a great part of its extent; the pleural sac contained foetid gas and fluid, and disintegrating solid exudation. In the diaphragm, on the left side, was a slit-shaped perforation, in which a perforated portion of the fundus and a part of the anterior wall of the stomach, along with mesentery, had become adherent. There was no peritonitic exudation on the anterior surface of the liver. The intestine was perforated at the front only, a little more than three inches above the anus ; the wound was cicatrised externally. Rosenberger believes that the pneumothorax was produced at first by perforation of the lung, and that the communication between the stomach and pleura was formed subsequently. Passage of a blade of grass through the right lung and chest-wall; pneumonia; abscess; recovery.—Dr. Day records the case. (‘Clin, Soc. Trans.,’ vi, 126.) . . The use of the pneumatic aspirator.—Cases illustrating the use of the pneumatic aspirator in pleurisy, empyema, &c\, are given in the ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ June 13, 1874. The patients were under the