517 SALICYLIC ACID. T. medioccinellata; and Marchi asked how it happened that, notwith- standing the occurrence of 13,000 measled pigs in the public butcheries of Florence, he had seen but one specimen of T. solium, whilst thirty- four could not have originated in the pig. To this Pellizzari replies that it is because the hygienic regulations of the city require that the flesh of the pigs be raised to 140° Fahr.; and he then himself imme- diately proceeds to ask another question, namely, as to how it happens that the Tcenia solium is so frequently seen in other places. He remarks that there are not so many sanitary precautions taken in other places, and that the people elsewhere consume more slightly salted or uncooked meat, as sausages and so forth. He explains that Marchi’s thirty-four tapeworms might all have arisen from the consumption of the cysti- cercus of the ox, and then goes on to speak of the presence of tape- worm in Florence, even in little children. This last-named feature he attributes to the circumstance that raw meat is frequently employed as a restorative. He remarks that thirty years ago it was just as diffi- cult to find a single T. medioccinellata as it is now easy to find a great number of these worms; and all because it is nowadays customary to eat the flesh of the ox either insufficiently cooked or raw. Pellizzari thinks that this absolute inversion of the facts of the case affords proof of the correctness of the position sustained by him, that the cooking of meat up to the degree of temperature necessary for ebullition ensures the destruction of the cysticerci. Pellizzari thinks, notwithstanding, that the interference of meat inspectors may be pushed too far, and serve to bring about the very disasters which it should be their object to prevent. He argues against the entire prohibition of the sale of measly meat; such a rigid prohibi- tion would lead to the smuggling of diseased meat, and it would, perhaps, be impossible to adopt such radical measures as would entirely stamp out tapeworm. Disinfectants.—Dr. Ziurek1 has experimented in Berlin on the in- fluence of disinfectants upon human excrement, urine, the contents of ash- pits, middens, privies, sewers, &c. The disinfectants used were chloride of lime, permanganic acid, carbolic acid, green vitriol, lime, gypsum, and charcoal. He finds that not one of the above-named disinfectants absolutely prevents putrefaction and the generation of products in- jurious to health from setting in ; and that with existing forms of middens it is impossible to prevent, by ever so liberal a use of disin- fectants, the passage of the putrefactive process from the putrefying to the fresh contents of the pit. It is impossible when the solid and liquid excrements are mixed to obtain a thoroughly satisfactory disin- fection. By separating the solids from the liquids, not only is it easy not only to disinfect, but also to filter the latter before they are allowed to pass into the sewers. Salicylic acid as a disinfectant and antiseptic.—Professors Kolbe and Thiersch recommend this substance, well known to chemists as an antiseptic and disinfectant, and the latter is of opinion that salicylic acid has all the advantages of carbolic acid, without its disadvantages. 1 ‘ Vrtljhrssclir. f. Gericlitl. Med.,’ N. F., xfv, p. 20. 2 ‘ Polytech. Journ.,’ 1874, July 2; ‘ Lond. Med. Rec.,’ ii, p. 599.