362 EEPOET ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. Ihe amount of permanent damage to sight caused by this diseaso is the next important item in the actual state of the schools. A few words of explanation are here needed. The degree of damage to sight was measured only in the very worst cases; in all, excepting those headed “lost” and some of those headed “severe” the amount of damage represents only an opinion formed from the extent, position, and cha- racter of the opacities. It is likely enough, therefore, that the estimate of the number of cases with “moderate,” “slight,” and “very slight” damage respectively may be either over or under the real amount of each. The total number of children with damages of all degrees is, however, certainly accurate. The corneal damages found in the schools have been divided into two main groups. One includes all which have no connection at all with the ophthalmia which forms the subject of this Report. In the other the damage was either caused directly by ophthalmia or the two were intimately connected; these are called the ophthalmic corneal damages. The number of children with ophthalmic corneal damages in all the schools was 793, or 9 per cent. In 353 of these both eyes were damaged, while each of the remaining 440 had only one cornea so affected. With regard to the permanence or otherwise of these opacities it was again impossible to do more than offer an opinion. In general terms those which were in progress would most likely improve considerably, and some of them would disappear altogether; of such cases the author noted about 40. He suggests that he may have omitted to note a few others, and even supposing as an extreme case that there may have been as many as 40 overlooked, this would give only 80, or about 1 in every 10, in whom improvement was to be confidently expected. The great majority were evidently of at least several months’, and many of several years’ duration. The great majority of these will probably be perma- nent, though a certain number will slowly improve and perhaps quite disappear. We must, however, set against the improvable opacities a not inconsiderable number which are at least as likely to get worse; this is especially apt to happen in many cases of bad granular lids. On the whole, therefore, it seems likely that a large majority of the opaci- ties will remain permanently almost as they were; that a few will quite disappear in a short time (a few weeks or months), and that a moderate proportion will improve more or less after several years, many having in the interval relapsed several times and become tem- porarily worse. The ophthalmic corneal damages were classified in six divisions, as follows, according to their severity. I. jEyes lost (i. e. either absolutely blind, or damaged so much as to be barely able to distinguish the outlines of very large objects, such as doors and windows). Total, 44 children.—Both eyes lost . 2 1 eye each . 42 6 of these (losing 1 eye each) occurred outside the schools. 11 of them can perhaps be partly remedied by operation.