295 SUBCUTANEOUS OSTEOTOMY. been thrust through the soft parts just above the great trochanter and carried directly in front of the cervix femoris, a narrow saw was then inserted and the neck divided. The bone was firm and it took twenty- five minutes to divide it. It was necessary to divide the adductor ion- gus and the tensor vaginae femoris. When this had been done the thigh was immediately and readily extended to a right line with the body. A weight was attached to the leg. Bony union did not result in the straight position at the end of six weeks. When last noted, after some months, he could use the limb well and had a false joint at the hip. His knee had become stiff" from another rheumatic attack. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1874.) Subcutaneous osteotomy by the chisel.—Dr. Popp, of Eatisbon, de- scribes in the ‘ Aerztliches Intelligenz-Blatt,’ No. 32, 1873, three cases in which he performed subcutaneous osteotomy after the manner recommended by Prof, von Nussbaum, of Munich, whose assistant he formerly was. Like other surgeons, Nussbaum divides the operation into two stages. In the first the bone is only partially divided, and its complete sepa- ration is not effected until the wound in the soft parts is completely healed, so as to avoid a complicated fracture. Instead of using a saw for the division of the bone, he employs a hammer and chisel. The advantages of this method are said to be the following : 1. The operation is more easily performed than with the saw ; which is, moreover, liable to break. 2. The track of the wound is not soiled with bone-splinters. 3. Eeaction is comparatively less. In applying the chisel the limb should be securely fixed, the chisel applied somewhat obliquely, and numerous short blows should be given with the hammer, so as to avoid splintering of the bone. When the surgeon believes that he has cut through about three fourths of bone, the chisel should be struck right and left with the hammer, so as to loosen it. Nussbaum has operated in this way in cases of ankylosis of the hip and knee, and of rickptty bending of the tibia and fibula. Popp’s three cases were instances of bow-leg ; in two, both legs were operated on at the same time, and in one, one leg only. One case is re- lated, that of a boy, set. 2, who was admitted into hospital on April 25, 1872, with curvature of the legs from rickets to such an extent that the soles of his feet could not touch the ground. On the 29th Dr. Popp operated, chloroform having been given. The limb having been fixed, an incision was made at the point of greatest curvature—about the middle of the tibia, and a chisel having been applied rather obliquely, was driven through about three fourths of the bone by short strokes with a hammer, and then withdrawn. A similar process was followed with regard to the fibula. There was very little haemorrhage The wound having been dressed, the operation was repeated on the other leg. The operation was followed by very slight constitutional disturbance and the wounds healed with but trifling suppuration. On May 21st the second stage of the operation—the fracture of the bones—was performed under chloroform. The leg was laid with its most curved part on the rounded and well-covered edge of a table, and, being firmly held