<v<V REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. oo Pavy and Tscherinoff long ago showed that by increasing the quantity ot starch and other carbo-hydrates in the food of animals the amount of glycogen is increased; but the question arises whether the increase is due to the conversion ot the carbo-hydrates into glycogen or to the carbo- hydrates being more easily oxidizable, and therefore seizing upon the which again leads to the sparing of the glycogen produced from other sources, but thus renderedapparentlymore abundant. Pavy thought the former alternation occurred, and Tscherinoff (1865 and 1869) and Dock (1872) were disposed to agree with him; Weiss,1 2 whilst admit- ting with Scheremetjewsky that glycogen is not very readily oxidizable, advocates the other view upon the ground of the results of his experi- ments in which glycerine was given as food to fowls. This is acknow- ledged to be an easily oxidizable substance, and yet is not at all likely to be converted into glycogen; and he found that when administered largely with the food the quantity of glycogen in the liver underwent great increase, the amount contained in the liver on ordinary diet being max. 0*301, the min. o'o6 gramme, whilst on the glycerine diet the max. was i*8 gramme and the min. ri gramme. ITence he concludes that the glycerine underwent combustion, and spared the glycogen derived from other sources. Luchsinger3 has repeated Weiss’s experiments on fowls and on rabbits. He points out that Ktihne had already indi- cated the likelihood of the conversion of glycerine into sugar, the improbability of which was the very basis of Weiss’s conclusion, and states, as the results of his experiments, that such change does actually take place, and that when given as food it causes an increase in the amount of glycogen present in the liver, not by taking up the oxygen and sparing the glycogen, but by escaping oxidation, in part at least, till it arrives at an organ where its conversion into glycogen is effected. Georg. Salomon,3 from experiments made on rabbits, is able to cor- roborate Dock’s statements to the effect that a moderate amount of glycogen is found in the liver of animals placed on a diet of cane sugar. He finds, also, as Luchsinger did, that glycogen is formed on a diet of milk sugar and on glycose or grape sugar, but not on mannite. It is continued to be produced on a gelatine diet; on a diet of neutral fats glycogen is found in small quantity. An abuudant supply was obtained from the liver of animals fed on diluted glycerine. _ This last fact is in accordance with the observations both of Weiss and of Luchsinger. Legg 4 describes the changes which the liver undergoes after ligature of the hepatic ducts. Boechat5 recommends, as the best mode of pre- paring the thyroid gland, that it should be hardened in solution of picric acid, left for a few days in solution of gum, and finally immersed in alcohol. The alveoli of the gland are not closed, rounded vesicles, but irregularly shaped, intercommunicating spaces, the walls of which are in many places formed by a single layer of somewhat flattened epi- 1 ‘ Sitzungsberichte cl. Wien. Akad,’ B. lxvii, Abtheil 3. 2 ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ Band viii, 18731 P- 2^9- 3 ‘ Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,’ 18741 P- I79* 4 ‘ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports,’ vol. ix, 1873. r> Pamphlet ‘ On the Structure of the Thyroid Gland,’ 1873, pp. 44'