225 ANEURISM—LIGATURE OE ARTERIES. Popliteal aneurism.—A case, in a man of 31, cured by g pression, and another, cured by ligature ol the ai £ V , , compression had failed, in a man set. 32, are recorded m ie ’ July 24, 1873. They were under the care of Mr. Bryant. re used was of catgut. Popliteal aneurism; spontaneous cure ; gangrene (tf the foot, ea_ • —The patient was a man, set. 73, under the care ol Mr. Ber ~e ey • Pain behind the knee came on seven weeks before admission. o death a small aneurism was found and a long plug in the lemora ar ery from the entrance to Hunter’s canal downwards. (‘ Med. limes an Graz.,’ Nov. 14, 1874.) Popliteal aneurism ; ligature of the femoral; gangrene tin ee wee cs later ; separation of four toes ; recovery.—The patient was a man, se . 4°> under the care of Mr. Thomas Smith. The aneurism was large and no pulsation could be detected in the tibial arteries. ^ ?co,mi pression was tried. The ligature was of catgut. The wound hea e well. The tumour remained soft. The gangrene did not make 1 s appearance for three weeks, when the patient was allowed to be ou of bed. The four outer toes separated at the second phalanges. (‘Lancet,’ July 12, 1873.) Popliteal aneurism cured by ligature of the femoral. A case under the care of Mr. Henry Smith is recorded. (‘ Lancet,’ July 11, j874.) Popliteal aneurism ; ligature of femoral artery ; fluctuationin aneurism for seven weeks afterwards; ultimate consolidation and contraction. The patient, a man mt. 47, was under the care of Mr. Smith, of Man- chester. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 3, 1874.) Aneurism of popliteal artery; compression (digital) for twenty-three hours; cure.—The patient was under the care of Mr. Sydney Jones. (‘Lancet,’ Nov. 14, 1874.) Popliteal aneurism cured by compression, at first instrumental, then digital. Dr. Zach. Johnson records the case. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ June, 1873.) Popliteal aneurism cured by compression (instrumental) in twenty- four hours; by pressure (various) over some days; by ligature after failure of compression. Aneurismal varix following punctured wound of femoral artery and vein—repeated haemorrhage; ligature of the artery above and below the zvound after failure of compression.—Cases under the care of Mr. Hamilton. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ May, 1873-) Popliteal aneurism; compression '; ligature of femoral; rigors; sup- puration ; haemorrhage; death.—Mr. Hamilton records the case of a man, set. 52, who came under his care for popliteal aneurism. After compression had been tried and failed the artery was ligatured. Sup- puration in the thigh and elsewhere followed, with rigors. Hiemor- rhage occurred on the twenty-first day. The man died two days later. There was no clot whatever in the artery. The vein was full of puru- 15