26 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. a more elastic longitudinally disposed plexus, a middle layer with stiff circular connective-tissue fibres, and an internal cell-membrane sepa- rating it from the spinal cord, also possessing an elastic circularly arranged plexus. The conclusions in regard to the minute structure of the nerves arrived at by Key and Retzius agree upon the whole with those of Ranvier. Each of the nerve fasciculi composing a great trunk like the sciatic is seen to be surrounded by a broader or narrower wrell- defined ring, which is equivalent to Robin’s perineurium. The con- nective tissue in the interior of this is named by these observers the endoneurium, and that external to it the epineurium. In injected nerves the injection takes the place of the perineurium, and close in- vestigation shows that it has run between the fine membranes of which the perineurium is composed. These latter closely resemble arachnoidal membranes, and are, in fact, a more or less direct continuation of the arachnoid. The endoneurium is in very intimate connection with the perineurium, whilst several perineural membranes separate off from the perineurium and penetrate into the interior of the nerve fasciculus. It thus becomes intelligible how, with strong pressure, the injection easily penetrates from the perineurium into the endoneurium, and ultimately causes the several primitive nerve fibres to be separated. In regard to the ultimate nerve fibres, the authors describe them as being invested, besides the sheath of Schwann, with a second comparatively wide tube, composed of delicate endothelial cells and connective-tissue fibrils. Injection fluid forced in from the peri- neurium into the endoneurium spreads itself, not only between the fibrillated sheaths of the several nerve fibres, but penetrates also into the interior of these fibrillated sheaths, and hathes the sheath of Schwann of the primitive nerve fibres. It never, however, runs internally to the sheath of Schwann. It is highly probable that these spaces above described are the lymph-paths of the nerves. The nerve fibres, therefore, each surrounded by the sheath of Schwann, lie within a fibrillated sheath, between which and the sheath of Schwann is a layer of lymph. This space communicates by openings with the spaces of the perineural sheaths, and by means of these with the lymph-spaces of the central nervous system. This lymphatic system is throughout the whole peripheric nerve system entirely shut off from the ordinary lymphatic system of the body at large, although it assumes the plexiform structure of the same in the spinal ganglia. Mr. Darwin1 describes the nerves supplying the vessels of the bladder as forming chain-like plexures of ganglia in the external coat which run with the vessels. The ganglia are of various sizes and shapes, and chiefly connected together by non-medullated fibres. A chain of minute ganglia may also be remarked running partly round the base of the bladder. See also Boll,2 Finkam,3 4 Lantermann,1 1 ‘ Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, April, 1874. . . 2 Boll, ‘Max Schultze’s Archiv,’ B. x, p. 101. “Die Structur der Electnschen Platten von Torpedo und von Malapterurus.” . ,T , „ a ‘Reichert’s Archiv/ 1874,p. 1^- “UeberdieNervenendigungcnimgrossenNetz. 4 Lantermann, ‘ Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss./ 1874, P- 706. “ Bemerkungeu uher die feineren Bau der Markhaltigen’Nervenfasern.”