470 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Berlin, has made an experimental investigation of this subject, the limbs of rabbits being the subjects of the experiments. lie finds' that the resistance, more especially of the hard tissues, as e. g. bones, is in- creased after death. An important practical conclusion results : if in a corpse extensive lesions are discovered, especially of bones lying in pro- tected situations, these in cases of doubt are to be regarded rather as ante- than as post-mortem lesions. Fractures of the base of the skull are alto- gether exceptional. They are, unless from gunshot, mostly indirect, and always raise the suspicion of an intra-vital origin. Mark on the neck after suffocation.—Dr. Behrend1 relates a most interesting case of a man suffocated by a piece of food on whose neck a mark was observed as from a ligature, but which had really been pro- duced by pressure of his clothes. Blood-stains. Dr. E. Hofmann 2 contributes two valuable papers, one indirectly, the other directly, having reference to the detection of blood-stains. Especially valuable is the latter memoir as embodying a large number of experimental observations of the author, as well as criticisms upon the investigations of other observers. The medical jurist will here fiud the following subjects treated of: the changes induced in the blood- discs by age ; the discrimination between human corpuscles and those of animals ; the effects of reagents upon the corpuscles, and their de- struction by heat and cold ; the recognition of haemoglobin by the spec- troscope and other means, and the changes which this body undergoes when submitted to varying conditions; the production of hsemin crys- tals ; the effects of various oxides, such as iron rust and albuminous earths upon the colouring matter of the blood, and the means of detect- ing this when admixed with rust and soil; and, finally, the value of the guaiacum reaction as a test for the presence of blood. To this last test Hofmann attaches less value than Dr. Taylor and English medical jurists generally. MM. Mialhe, Mayet, Lefort, and Cornil3 are the reporters of acorn- mission on the best manner of examining blood-stains. Their conclu- sions are formulated thus :—i. It is necessary above all things that the expert should avoid destruction of the red blood-globules. As water, acetic, gallic, hydrochloric, and sulphuric acids, the alkalies even in weak solutions, ether, chloroform, and the biliary acids, destroy the red corpuscles, the use of such liquids as contain those reagents is to be avoided ; whilst alcohol, and aqueous solutions of chromic and picric acids, and of potassium bichromate, are admissible, since they preserve the corpuscles. Various receipts are given for liquids to be used for moistening the globules before placing them on the stage of the micro- scope ; but the formulae present no new features. The diameters of the red corpuscles of various animals are given as follows:—man, *0003 inch; dog, *00029; rabbit, *00028 ; cat, *00026; pig, *00024; horse and ox, *00022 ; sheep, *0002 ; goat, *00018 ; birds, *0003 to *0006 ; 1 Ibid., p. 46. 2 Ibid., xix, pp. 89, 113. 3 ‘ Aim. d’Hyg.,' xxx, p. 191.