148 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. iu its development from the lymph-vessels, but not directly from their endothelium. As to treatment, in addition to all means of prophy- laxis he advises iron in combination with quinine. Buhl (“ Lungenentziindung, Tuberculose, und Schwindsucht: Zwolf Briefe an einen Freund,’ Miinchen, 1872, pp. 164) divides all inflammatory processes occurring in the lungs into “ superficial” and “ parenchymatous,” the former including those in which the internal surface (epithelial in the sense of endothelial) is attacked, the products being contained in the bronchi and alveoli, the latter term embracing those in which the walls of the bronchi and alveoli and the interstitial tissue are engaged. He discusses at length the course and pathology of the first class of cases, including (1) catarrhal and (2) croupous; and. of the second, comprising (3) desquamative pneumonia. Of the latter he distinguishes twTo special modifications:—(o) consecutive desquama- tive pneumonia, following acute infectious diseases, &c.; (b) true desqua- mative pneumonia, a primary affection, commencing by preference in the upper portions of the lungs and extending downwards, generally proving fatal after six or eight weeks’ course, but in some cases becom- ing chronic and ending in (1) chronic fatty degeneration, fatal in a year, with symptoms of phthisis ; or (2) cirrhosis (chronic interstitial pneu- monia) ; or again, and most frequently, in (3) cheesy pneumonia. After entering into minute details, which it is impossible to follow in this abstract, the writer proceeds to speak of a condition not necessarily part of, though very generally combined with, inflammations of the lung, and affecting the deeper layers of the bronchial wall and adven- titia, more especially in the finer bronchi—Peri-bronchitis. In this condition, again, he distinguishes three forms—(a) P. fibrosa, mostly associated with cirrhosis of the lung; (b) P. nodosa, formerly described as chronic discrete miliary tuberculosis, a perfectly distinct affection; (c) a far more fatal form than these two, the tendency of which is to cicatrization, is P. purulenta or exulcerativa, consisting in prurulent infiltration and destruction of the bronchial walls and lung tissue, leading to the existence of cavities. Buhl’s views as to the nature and minute structure of tubercle agree in the main, though with certain exceptions, with those of recent observers. In the lungs it occurs in the internal fibrous layers of the mucous membrane of the larger bronchi, in the walls of the bronchioles and vessels, in the inter- alveolar connective tissues, and in the alveoli themselves. Acute mili- ary tuberculosis is a specific disease, due to absorption and infection. In 300 cases cheesy deposit was wanting in only 10 per cent., and Buhl would find something specific in the infectious material of these cheesy centres. In his concluding chapter he treats of pulmonary phthisis, which he defines to be gradual destruction of the respiratory organs, either by itself or combined, in most cases, with wastiug of the whole body. He holds that two forms must be distinguished—(1) infectious phthisis, acute miliary tuberculosis, which never causes independently any peculiar destruction; and (2) inflammatory phthisis, which seldom runs its course without ulceration. Finally follow remarks on treat- ment, and strong advice to examine the sputa, for which, as for much else passed over here, reference must be made to this most important work.