2G0 Report on surgery. e eyes remain open. If, however, the extravasation be great the wiiole oi the ocular conjunctiva may be separated from the eyeball up tiie margin of the cornea, but this seldom occurs except in those cases m which the blood is originally poured out within the orbit. At the inner canthus the tendo oculi and lachrymal apparatus appear effec- tiially to obstruct the passage of fluids from the lids to the conjunctiva.” “ The practical application of these observations will be to detract from the diagnostic value of subconjunctival effusion in cases of suspected fracture of the^ base of the skull, when associated with contusions so placed as to afford blood that may trickle in considerable quantity into the eyelids. It is noteworthy, however, that in these cases the blood invariably passes in at the outer canthus and occupies, for the most part, the outer side of the eyeball. Haemorrhage into the orbit, resulting from a fracture of the roof, may collect in two situations either between the bone and its loosely adherent periosteum or on the ocular side of that membrane, and in each case the blood may make its appearance externally. Experiments were made to show the course fluids take when injected into the orbit in these two situations. When injected between the bone and the periosteum the fluid made its way into the upper eyelid, thence into the lower, and finally beneath the ocular conjunctiva from the outer canthus inwards. When injected into the cellular tissue of the orbit the fluid quickly appeared beneath the ocular conjunctiva before staining the lids, and on continuing the injection the whole of the conjunctiva became discoloured, separated from the eyeball, and chemosed. The discoloration of the conjunctiva was by far the most marked sign in these experiments, the fluids ap- pearing subsequently in the lids, and never filling them so completely as in the previous injections. The author suras up—i. Blood may collect in the eyelids as the result of a superficial injury in the vicinity of the orbit, and after distending them may pass beneath the ocular conjunctiva, in which case it invariably spreads beneath that membrane in a direction from the outer canthus towards the cornea. 2. Blood extravasated between the periosteum and roof of the orbit may find its way into the eyelids. It then appears first beneath the skin of the upper eyelid, and subsequently follows exactly the same course and gives rise to precisely the same appearances as blood which has col- lected in the lids from a superficial contusion. 3. Hemorrhage into the cellular tissue of the orbit appears first, and in quantity, beneath the ocular conjunctiva and subsequently spreads to the eyelids. The ap- pearance thus presented occurring after an injury to the head is highly characteristic of a fracture of the base of the skull. 4. Extra- vasation into the cellular tissue of the orbit is sometimes caused by crushing injuries of the abdomen and thorax. The blood is then seen beneath the conjunctiva and in the eyelids, presenting the same ap- pearance as may result from fracture of the base of the skull. The period required for the absorption of the blood averages about three weeks. It disappears first where most pressure is exerted. The treat- ment should be adapted (1) to check further extravasation—the appli- cation of ice; and (2) to hasten absorption. There are various drugs iu repute, hut their efficacy is doubtful; probably pressure by pad and