252 REPORT ON SURGERY. of the anterior layer of periosteum and the stripping up of the posterior layer ot periosteum as far as the third pair of ribs. 8. The diarthrodial form of joint lias been more frequently met with by him- self in males than females, and this concurs with the greater exposure of males to violence of all kinds in favouring dislocation in preference to fracture. The author differs from M. Maisonneuve in regard to the part played by the clavicle in producing displacements of the sternum (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ lvii, ioi.) Wounds and injuries of the head.—In the ‘ Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, published by the American Government, and com- piled by Geo. A. Otis, will be found a detailed report on the injuries of the head received by the troops. An abstract is given in the ‘ American Journal of the Medical Sciences ’ for July, 1873. We may mention that forty-nine cases are recorded in which the skull was frac- tured by a sabre or other cutting weapon. Of these, thirteen proved fatal, death resulting in ten instances from intra-cranial inflammation or compression, in one from epilepsy, in one from tetanus, and in one from pyaemia. Removal of fragments was effected in eleven cases, of which only one resulted disastrously, thus confirming the observation that the greatest comminution of the skull is often attended with the least injury of the brain. The prognosis in cases of incised fracture appears to vary in a marked manner with the particular part of the skull affected ; sabre wounds of the top of the head are much less dangerous than those of its lateral portions. The proper treatment to be pursued when parts of the skull are sliced away and the detached fragments adhere to flaps of integument which have not been completely separated from the rest of the scalp is fully discussed. Dr. Otis concludes that, although the dangers likely to result from allowing the flap of bone which adheres to the scalp to remain have probably been exaggerated, yet that it is, upon the whole, safer to remove the osseous fragment if it can be readily detached. All portions of the scalp should be preserved. Of six cases of punctured fracture of the cranium all but one ended fatally. Dr. Otis advises that operative interference should not be resorted to in these cases, until it is certain that the brain, or its membranes, is actually implicated. In seventy-nine cases of fracture of the skull (from various causes; not gunshot) treated without operative interference the death-rate was 54-4 ; of twenty-six operated upon, the ultimate results are ascertained in 23, in which the mortality rate was 6o-8. The gun- shot cases are too numerous to note here. Of sixteen cases of operative interference in contusion of skull, four only had a favorable termination, and these were examples of the secondary removal of ex- foliated fragments. In the twelve remaining fatal cases in which formal trephining was resorted to, pus was found between the skull and the dura mater in four instances, beneath the dura mater in one case and in the substance of the brain in one ; intra-cranial extravasation in two, in another arachnitis, in three cases the causes were not mentioned. The patients survived, on an average, about three days. Dr. Otis is disinclined to admit that “the outer table of the skull is ever fractured in the adult without injury to the inner table, either by projectiles of yyrar or any other external violence,” twenty cases are recorded in