402 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Kunert writes on sarcoma of the uterus (‘Archiv f. G-ynak.,’ vi, i, 1874). He gives the completed history of six cases which lie had watched till the fatal end, and gives a rfaumt of the chief points in the pathology of the affection. Sarcoma of the uterus has not been known to occur before puberty; the progress of the disease is very rapid, and always terminates fatally. From the moment a tumour is discovered presenting the character of a sarcoma the advance is rapid ; the alteration in the general condition of the patient most marked. In fourteen out of thirty cases death followed within a year after the tumour was recognised ; in one after two years, in three after three to six years. There is a unique case of cure reported by Winkel. The diagnosis is generally easy. It is easily distinguished from carcinoma of the cervix when debris of the tumour is found in the discharge. Carcinoma of the body of the uterus is exceedingly rare, and the con- sistence of the growth is different. Haemorrhage and pain occur early, and marked immobility of the uterus is later. It is difficult to dis- tinguish sarcoma from myoma. The prognosis is bad, only a little more favorable than in carcinoma. With regard to treatment, as preventive, every myoma should be removed at once. When the sarcomatous growth is recognised it should at once be removed. If the tumour is circumscribed its base should be cut through with the knife, scissors, or ecraseur. If the growth is diffused it should be taken away with the curette, scoop, finger-nail, &c. Bleeding is best stopped by plugs steeped in the Liq. Terri Perchloridi. In cases where it is impossible to operate fair results are obtained from the repeated injection of a solution of carbolic acid, perchloride of iron, tincture of iodine, caustic potash, or the actual cautery. Partial or complete Removal of the Uterus by Gastrotomy. J. Pean and Hrdv have written on this subject. M. Pean has nine times, between 1869 and 1872, performed the operation for the removal of a fibroid tumour; seven of these were successful, or 78 per cent. The operation has been performed 44 times in all, with 14 recoveries, or 31B2 per cent. They conclude that the extirpation of fibrous tumours of the uterus does not give more unfavorable statistics than that of adherent cysts of the ovaries. The operation may be advised either for fibro-cystic tumours of the uterus or for the interstitial fibroids. The steps of the operation are similar to those in ovariotomy. If there is a thin pedicle it should be treated as the pedicle in ovarian cysts, but if there are adhesions, and the uterus has to be cut through near the vagina, the ligature must be employed. Dr. Meadows gives a detailed account of the successful enucleation of a large fibroid tumour embedded completely in the uterine walls of a patient aged 42, who had become very anaemic through continued and profuse menstruation (£ Obst. Journ.,’ April, 1873). Dr. Marion Sims writes on intra-uterine fibroids (‘New lorkMecl. Journ. ’ April, 1874). He relates cases in which he successfully removed large intra-uterine fibroids. The following principles guide in this operation:—1. Let the cervical canal be freely opened. 2. The tumour must be freed from the restraint of its investing capsule. When tne