4 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE!. BY A. B. SHEPHERD, M.A., M.B., M.R.C.P., ASSISTANT-PHYSICIAK TO ST. MARY’S HOSPITAL, ETC. a. Diseases oe the General System. Inflammation and Suppuration. Cohnheim publishes an important memoir (‘Neue Untersuch- ungen iiber die Entziindung,’ Berlin, 1873, 83) in continuation of his former works on inflammation. He still maintains his former opinion as to the origin of pus, as opposed to that of Strieker aud his school. In his first paper on the subject (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ xl, 1) he had ex- plained the migration of the white corpuscles by their spontaneous contractility, the exit of the red corpuscles by the increased blood- pressure forcing them through stomata which existed in the walls of the vessels, and had been enlarged by the dilatation of the latter during the process of inflammation. This explanation was op- posed by Hering and Schklarewsky, who looked upon the exit of the corpuscles as a process of filtration of colloid substance through the physical pores of the vessel wall, due to increased lateral blood- pressure. He shows by a simple experiment of pinching a frog’s tongue that dilatation of the veins, slower blood current, marked adhesion of the colourless corpuscles, increased pressure in the capil- laries during the dilatation, may all take place without the passage of a single blood-corpuscle of either kind through the vessel wall. So far neither his own explanation nor that of his opponents will hold, and he attempts to find a more real cause in a change in the vessel walls themselves. To solve this question he made the following ex- periments :—On cauterizing the tongue of a frog with nitrate of silver, changes are observed similar to, but more intense in character than, those obtained by pinching. But' at a later period the capillaries in the immediate neighbourhood of the cauterized part are in a state of complete stagnation, and in from six to eight hours after beginning the experiment, there is extravasation of both white and red corpuscles. From the second to the fourth days there is round the scab a narrow Note.—Unless stated otherwise, all references in the following abstracts are to volumes aud pages. A table of errata in the last Report will be found at the end of this.