REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 44 menstrual discharge. A new mucous membrane is then developed bv proliferation of the inner layer of the uterine wall, the muscular tissue producing fusiform cells, and the groups of round cells enclosed in the meshes of the muscular bundles producing the columnar epithelium, of the glands. Dr. Dewar and Dr. McKendrick1 consider they have experimentally proved—i. That the impact of light on the eyes of members of the fol- lowing groups of animals, viz. Mammalia, Aves, Eeptilia, Amphibia, Pisces, and Crustacea, produces a variation amounting to from 3 to io* per cent, of the normal electro-motive force existing between the retinal surface and the transverse section of the nerve. 2. That this electrical alteration may be traced into the brain. 3. That those rays that we regard as most luminous produce the largest variation. 4. That the alteration of the electrical effect with varying luminous intensity seems to follow very closely ratios given by the psycho-physical law of Fechner. 5. That the electric alteration is due to the action of light on the retinal structure itself, as it is independent of the anterior portion of the eye, eliminating, therefore, the natural supposition that the contraction of iris might produce a similar result. 6. That it is possible by experiment to discover the physical expression of what is usually called in physiological language fatigue. And, 7. That the method employed in this research may be applied to the investigation of the special organs of other senses. The chief addition to the department of embryology has been the admirable work of Foster and Balfour giving an account of the develop- ment of the ovum of the fowl. Balfour has also studied the develop- ment of the elasmobranch fishes, and has contributed an interesting essay upon it to the ‘ Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science.’ He has devoted himself to the development of the Teleostei, and published the result of his inquiries in a separate pamphlet. Y. Bambeke 2 discusses the existence of the nucleus of Balbiani, or vesicule embryogene of Milne-Edwards, and finds it to be very con- stantly present. It is quite distinct from the germinal vesicle, but, like this, disappears as the egg reaches maturity. For other papers on development see IJrbantschitsch,3 Wendt,4 Zuckerkandl,5 J. Mauthner,6 V. Mihalkovics,7 V. Torok,8 A. Grdtte,9 1 “On the Physiological Action of Light,” ‘Transactions of the Hoy. Soc. of Edinburgh,’ vol. xxvii, p. 141. 2 ‘ Bull, de la Soc. de Med. de Gand,’ 1873. 3 ‘Wien. Acad. Sitz.,’ lxviii, 1873, p. 19, “Ein Beitrag zur Entwicklungsges- chichte der Paukenhohle.” 4 ‘Archiv der Heilkunde,’ Band xiv, “Der Paukenhohle beim Fotus und hei Neugebornen.” 5 ‘ Mouatsschrift f. Ohrenheilk.,’ 1873, No. 3, “Zur Entwickelung des ausseren Gehorganges.” o “ xjeber den Miitterlichen Kreislauf in der Kaninchen-placenta,” &c., ‘ Wiener Akad. Sitz.,’ Band lxvii, Abt. iii. , „ ... ,, , , 7 “ Entwickelung der Zirbeldriise,” Idem, p. 307, ‘ Centralblatt fur die Med. Wiss., 1874,p. 241, and ‘Entwickelung der Ilirnanhanges.’ s < Centralblatt fur die Med. Wiss.,’ 1874, p. 257, “ Rolle der Dotterpliittchcn beim Aufbau der Gewebe.” , 9 ‘Max Schultze’s Archiv f. Mic. Anat.,’ Band x, p. i45"*49> Beitrage zurEnt- wickelungsgeschiclite der Wirbelthiere.”