367 OPHTHALMIA IN PAUPElt SCHOOLS. In a good many cases, however, I did not succeed in ’permanently curing the disease. With regard to the effects to be expected from local treatment, I may perhaps he allowed to copy a statement ot my own, which has lately appeared, as follows :—‘ One of the most important rules to he remembered here is that there is no uniform sta e of improvement to which all cases of granular disease of the same severity can he brought by treatment. In this respect every case has its own standard, beyond which it cannot be carried, and this can be found with safety and certainty only by experience in each instance. A great many patients can he kept perfectly well for an indefinite time by treatment. ‘ Below this point of excellence are all degrees ol variation down to the point at which the most powerful treatment that seems safe has no effect at all beyond causing transient irritation, while in a very few instances where the symptoms point to the necessity of treatment the disease is positively increased by treatment. This incomplete result I anticipated several months before the school was given up, and accordingly advised that when the time came for the Bow children to return to Anerley, such means should he taken there as might ensure a continuance of the full amount of good already effected. I suggested a still further time of isolation and of general hygienic measures, coupled with a continuance by some means of more personal local treatment of the cases than could fairly he considered to fall within the duty of the medical officer at Anerley, appointed as, with one exception, all these officers are, from men whose time is largely taken up by private practice. The isolation has been carried out, and to an incomplete extent the educational and medical measures also, the net result being that the improvement of the ophthalmic cases since they left Bow, although very marked in many of the children both at Anerley and also in the most intractable ones who were sent to Mar- gate, has in a certain number not progressed (I speak of the state of things early in September last) quite so much as I hoped it would if my recommendations had been more fully carried out. I attach great im- portance to means which admit of the children’s education being carried on, and a good deal of very tedious and somewhat skilled medical treat- ment is one of the essential conditions of this. To explain more fully; a large majority of cases of relapsing ophthalmia with granular lids can be kept well or very nearly well for an indefinite time by suitable treat- ment ; the same cases, if not treated with sufficient vigour, will suffer for months or years from various degrees of ophthalmia, enough in most instances to interfere seriously with education, besides causing consider- able risk of damage to sight. By a very long course (with or without intermissions according to circumstances) of this “pounding” treatment, the natural course of the disease towards spontaneous cure is much hastened, its severity as a whole greatly diminished, the accompanying risks to the cornea reduced to a very low degree, and a large amount of the children’s time saved. It is of very great importance not to omit treatment altogether until at least from four to eight weeks after each case has reached the greatest amount of improvement of which it is capable. In most respects the conditions are far more favorable to general