VARIOLA AND VARICELLA. 85 loss of appetite, and an eruption which passed through the stages of red spots, papules, and pustules. The other ape was allowed to play with a wire basket (a sort of tea-strainer) containing smallpox scabs and lint impregnated with blood and pus, and in a fortnight it exhibited the same symptoms as the first ape. Zuelzer concludes that the blood of patients affected with smallpox is infectious. Infection does not occur through the medium of the digestive organs, and probably not through un- damaged skin; but it does follow, not only from inoculation, but also from breathing air sufficiently impregnated with the poison. H. Emminghaus records (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiv, 61) four cases of severe smallpox followed by delusions ; one, a soldier, set. 26, recovered; the rest, a man set. 54, and two women set. 38 and 60, died. He looks upon the symptoms as due to inanition; the blood, in the eruptive fever, under- going a rapid process of oxidation. The paper contains some observa- tions on “ smallpox bacteria ” and the occurrence of the fatty acids in the urine of patients suffering from smallpox. C. Westphal (‘Arch. f. Psych.,’ iv, 335) observed, in two cases of varioloid, paraplegia of the lower extremities with paralysis of the bladder, followed by death. Careful sections of the cord in the fresh and the hardened condition showed extensive myelitis of large portions of the cord; enormous collections of granule-cells, with hypenemia and dilatation of the vessels, the ganglia of the grey substance, however, remaining normal. He likens cases of this kind,' occurring after acute affections, to the so-called essential paralysis of infants. E. W. G-oss gives (‘Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,’ lxxxviii, 464) the case of a woman, mt. ^o, in whom paralysis of all the extremities came on after a slight attack of varioloid. The patient died, but no au- topsy was made. A. Bodet (‘Ann. de Derm, et Syph.,’ iv, 21) publishes two sets of cases to show the non-identity of the origin of variola and varicella. M. Kaposi ( Arch. f. Derm., v, 255) holds that, as contagious diseases, the two are identical, a view upheld (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ vi 160) by Kas sowitz, and opposed ('Wien. Med. Ztung,’ 1873,104) by Fleisehman; the two last writers, the latter supported by Eisenschitz, discuss the sub ject at a meeting of the “Aertzliche Yerein ” at Vienna (‘Arch f Derm ’ v, 30 O Siegel, “Die Pockenepidemie des Jalires 1871 i ITeilk.,’ xiv, 124. v. Pastau, “Beitrage zur Poe aus der Pocken-Epidenrie 1871-72 in Breslau,” ‘ im Umkreise von Leipzig,” ‘Arch. d. ckenstatistik nacli den Erfahrun^cii ‘Dent. Arch.,) xii, 112. H. Auspttz,