250 REPORT ON SURGERY. Disarticulation of the inferior cornu of the th yroid cartilac/e.—Dr. Holden records the case. The patient was a man, set. 32, robust and active. He received a blow or kick on the throat. Twenty-five days later laryngoscopic examination showed the arytenoid cartilage ofthe right side drawn upward and inward, the vocal cord coming but slowly up to the median line during phonation, and both falling helplessly back against tbe laryngeal wall immediately after the effort. Almost complete ansesthesia of the larynx existed. On external examination no fracture could be detected, but one point seemed to stick out, and this was the lower cornu of the thyroid detached from its articulating facet. The voice was very weak, but manifestly improved when the head was bent forcibly over toward the sound side. All effort at reduction proved unavailing. Ansesthesia and subcutaneous section of the crico-thyroid muscle seemed to offer the best prospect, but the man was lost sight of. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1873.) Silicate of soda bandage.—Mr. Wagstaffe describes a new form of fixed bandage which he finds useful. The limb is encased in cotton-wool, &c., then a common binder is applied and the silica is painted over. Three layers of bandage and silica are on the average necessary. The bandage is allowed to dry and sets firmly. The silicate is used as pre- pared in the manufacture of soap. The bandage does not contract in drying. It is light, clean, and strong. In children it is well to varnish over the surface after a day or two. The silicate is soluble in water and therefore can be removed easily. A good plan also is to mix as much whitening with the silicate as to make the fluid of the con- sistence of butter. This mixture sets to a very hard consistence. It can be cut up with strong cutting pliers. Starch may be used instead of whitening, and the mixture is more pliable. The simple silicate answers for most purposes. (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ March 7, 1874.) On the treatment of luxations by Robert's modification of Jarvis' adjustor.—Mr. W. Stokes narrates his experience of reducing disloca- tions by Robert’s modification of Jarvis’ adjustor. Figures ofthe appa- ratus in position are given. The amount of force used is known and the direction of the force can be altered without relaxing its amount. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Aug. 1873.) Cases of compound fracture successfully treated on conservative prin- ciples— Cases under the care of Mr. Callender are narrated in which recovery followed severe compound fractures. (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 31, 1874.) Dislocation ofthe occipital bone from the atlas and axis.—A. case is noted in the ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ x, 313. Dislocation between the second and third cervical vertebrce ; partial paralysis ; death on the fourth day.—The notes of a case of dislocation between the second and third cervical vertebrae in which the patient, a man ®t. 34, lived till the fourth day, are given in ‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 1, 1874 and also some remarks thereon by Mr. Erichsen. On admission there was paralysis of the left deltoid and impaired power of supina- tion of left fore-arm (circumflex and musculo-spiral). All the move- ments ofthe lower extremities were perfect and the patient had complete