ANEURISM—SURGERY OF ARTERIES. 227 Double popliteal aneurism.—A man, ast. 37, came under the care of Dr. Humphrey for an aneurism in the right ham. The femoral artery was tied with a carbolised catgut ligature, and carbolic dressing applied. Profuse haemorrhage recurred on the 19th and 26th days ; the vessel was then tied with hemp ligatures. It was now found that there was an aneurism on the other side; the femoral artery on that side was tied with hemp ligatures. Pulsation soon recurred in the aneurism and finally suppuration in the sac followed. The pus was evacuated with a trocar, and the patient recovered with both aneurisms cured. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 19, 1874.) The treatment of secondary haemorrhage after ligature of the femoral artery in continuity.—Mr. W. H. Cripps gives tables of cases he has been able to collect in which secondary haemorrhage has been treated occurring after ligature of the femoral artery in continuity. A. Li- gature of the external iliac; of 17 cases, in 3 amputati on had previously been performed, in the other 14 the first twelve proved fatal. In one case haemorrhage recurred, and was then treated successfully by pres- sure ; the ligature having, therefore, been unnecessary. In the other case gangrene followed ligature, but the patient recovered after am- putation. In nearly all these cases bleeding returned from the original wound, the interval elapsing varying from a few hours to as many days ; the bleeding usually occurring from the lower end. The facts point irresistibly to the conclusion that ligature of the external iliac in such cases is a dangerous and perfectly useless operation, and should be abolished as a method of treatment in haemorrhage from the femoral. In many of the cases pressure was not tried ; in many in which it was tried it stopped the bleeding, but a ligature was applied nevertheless; in some, when the ligature failed, compression, nevertheless, succeeded. B. Ligature of the vessel in the wound. In twelve eases an attempt was made to tie the vessel in the wound; in seven, death followed, and in five recovery. In some there was not much difficulty; in others the vessel was only secured after a long search. In two cases death seems to have followed directly in consequence of opening the wound; the bleeding point may be found and tied, but the blood lost in this pro- ceeding may tell fatally against the patient’s chance of life ; the second ligature may only succeed for a time as the first did, the same causes being at work. On the whole, the chances of success by this plan appear too slight to risk the additional dangers of the operation. C. Amputation of the thigh for secondary haemorrhage. Of six cases, three recovered and three died; it would appear to be a method only to be adopted after gangrene had set in. D. Pressure and bandaging. In fifteen cases pressure alone was adopted : only three patients died, twelve recovering. The success following this treatment by pressure alone is most marked; perhaps more so, because, in some of the cases, it does not appear to have been applied in the most efficacious manner. The following would appear to be the most effectual method of its application. The limb should be carefully bandaged with a moderate amount of tightness from the toes to above the knee ; along the course of the femoral, below the wound, should be plaeed a pencil thickly covered with lint and the roller carried up over this. On the wound