95 DIABETES—RHEUMATISM, ETC. albuminuria in two. The whole of the 87 cases recovered more or less completely, except one, a boy, who died of pericarditis and old heart disease in a third slight attack of rheumatism. The treatment con- sisted in the employment of bicarbonate of potash, with or without the nitrate. In the subacute cases iodide of potassium, bicarbonate of potash, and small doses of colchicum, were used, with Dover s powder or opium at night if the pain was severe; small doses of mercury ; blisters followed by poultices above the affected joints, and over the heart when it became affected; with tonics and stimulants during conva- lescence. In the uncomplicated cases the mean duration of treatment and the duration of illness were 20-09 and 25-6 days respectively ; _in the complicated ones, 21-5 and 33-3 days. The paper concludes wit brief abstracts of the cases on which these conclusions are based. P. H. Pye-Smith has collected (‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xix, 311) all the cases which occurred in the hospital during the years 1870, 1871. and 1872, as a contribution to a more precise definition of the relation between genuine rheumatism and its supposed allies gout, osteo- arthritis, and gonorrhoeal synovitis. The paper also includes remarks on the connection between rheumatism and chorea, and rheumatism and pyaemia. The writer has analysed 400 cases of acute rheumatism, into the etiology and symptoms of which he enters at length. Of the whole number, only 18 died—4-5 per cent., or, deducting those cases which died from what may be called accidental causes, the real per- centage would be less than 4. Three deaths occurred from hyper- pyrexia ; one from diphtheria, which appeared in the middle of the attack ; another from syncope, owing to previous rheumatic disease of the aortic valves, and a third from a fit of epilepsy; the causes of death in the rest of the cases were cardiac inflammation and pneumonia. Of 150 tabulated cases of chorea, only four were fatal; but the writer adds short notes of eleven other fatal cases from his own note-book. There was evidence of endocarditis in every case, and he has seen only one autopsy in which it was not found. Sixty-one cases of gout occurred in the three years, 34 in men and 7 in women; seven of these were fatal; to these seven the writer adds notes of three others. Two of these ten cases died from malignant disease, unconnected with gout except by its preference for the same period of life ; all the rest had granular degeneration of the kidneys. Notes of 29 cases of gonorr- hoeal synovitis, all in men, and of the same number of osteo-arthritis, eight in men and 21 in women, follow. Of the first the writer remarks that he has never seen it in a woman, while the second is more common in the female sex. He gives in the text his reasons for believing that there is, no pathological connection between rheumatism, gout, and gonorrhoeal synovitis. As to the connection between osteo-arthritis and the two former affections, he holds that a much larger number of cases are necessary in order to form anything like a safe conclusion on the subject. In reference to pyaemia, he thinks that three ways may be distinguished in which that affection and rheumatism are allied—(1) cases of apparently simple rheumatism which go on to suppurations of the joints, often with purulent peri- carditis and pleurisy; (2) cases of pymmia arising from ulcerative