50 ItEtOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. zone of absolute stasis, then a broader zone of stagnant capillaries with enormous diapedesis; and, lastly, a still broader zone of capil- laries in which the circulation is decreased and from which there is abundant extravasation of corpuscles. At the same time there is great emigration from the dilated veins in the region of the scab, accompanied by transudation of plasma. Other caustic substances have pretty well the same results. Cohnheim explains the dilatation of the vessels by a relaxation of the circular muscles caused by the direct action of the caustic. The primary dilatation of and increased current in the arteries and veins ensuing immediately on application of the caustic are only temporary and accidental; the subsequent dilata- tion and stasis are permanent and necessary to the process of inflam- mation, without standing in any necessary relation to the former. The same succession of symptoms follows the application of croton oil to the tongue of the frog or the shaved ear of a white rabbit. In experiments on the cornea of rabbits the alteration was always preceded by a marked injection of the conjunctival vessels near the injury, not due, according to the writer, to reflex action. Tor, if in a rabbit whose facial nerve has been divided a fine silk thread be inserted in the centre of the cornea, no abnormality is noticed at first. Three or four hours later there is partial or general injection of the cornea, which reaches its maximum in 24 to 36 hours. Other changes resembling those pro- duced by cauterisation, are described as occurring after freezing and heating, and after exposure of the mesentery to air. Cohnheim finds by emptying the vessels of a rabbit’s ear, in a way described in the text, and by filling them with other fluids, that a pure diluted saline solu- tion had no harmful effect, as also was the case on injecting fresh blood-serum from the dog or ox, while distilled water and other injected fluids set up a true inflammatory process. Eeltz (“ Eecherches experimentales sur l’inflammation du peritoine et l’origine des leucocytes‘Journ.de l’Anat.,’ ix, 113) refers to his former experiments (see ‘Sep. on Practical Medicine,’ 1869-70, 34), and writes a short paper on the normal structure of the peritoneum, and the changes it undergoes in inflammation, in the frog. He holds that in this membrane, as in the cornea, there is a network of canaliculi, the fusiform swellings of which present the appearance of the so-called elements or nuclei. In the normal state they contain only the plasma of the blood; the amount of the plasma is increased by the increased circulation due to irritation ; and the multiplication of tissue-elements arises from a segmentation of this protoplasm, and not from the division of cells and nuclei. A. Boettcher (“ Experimented TTntersuchungen fiber die^Entste- hung der Eiterkorperchen bei der traumatischen Iveratitis ; Virch. Arch.,’ lviii, 362) has attempted to oppose Cohnheim’s views by setting up central inflammation in the cornea of frogs, and is led by his expeii- ments to agree with Strieker and other writers as to the local origin of pus-corpuscles. . . . ,, J. Arnold (“ Ueber Diapedesis,” ib., 203 and 23 0 looks upon the passage of the blood-corpuscles through the walls of the capillaries, no as a wandering, but merely a passive, process, by which they are