306 REPORT ON SURGERY. lleportby Dr. Otis, Washington. Hernia of the lung was observed, in seven cases during the war, and in three instances is believed to have ended fatally ; ligation of the protruded pulmonary tissue was resorted to in ten of the successful and in one of the unsuccessful cases. In one case the left subclavian was successfully tied for a wound of the vessel, where it passes across the first rib. “ Of those killed in battle, from one third to one half, and of those wounded in action, one twelfth, receive wounds of the chest.” Traumatic pleurisy was found to be a somewhat infrequent complication of penetrating wounds, and “it is certain that pneumonia in the ordinary acceptation of the term is not an invariable sequence of wounds of the lung. It is probable that it is not a frequent sequence.” No case of ligation of the innominate occurred during the war, though this vessel was wounded in several instances. Dr. Otis suggests that the proper treatment for a wound of the distal portion of the brachio-cephalic trunk would be to tie this vessel itself in its middle portion, tying also the carotid and subclavian arteries as near their points of origin as possible, and then to amputate at the shoulder. Ligation of the subclavian was performed in 25 cases, 20 of which proved fatal; in two instances, the vessel was secured in its first portion and in two in its second portion, or between the scaleni muscles. In 16 cases, the operation was performed for haemorrhage, and in nine cases for traumatic aneurism of the axillary artery. The right subclavian was tied in 13 and the left in 12 cases. The total num- ber altogether during the war was 52, of which 41 terminated fatally. Excision of the clavicle (whole) was resorted to twice (fatally) and partial nine times, with five deaths and four recoveries. Partial excision of the scapula, four cases and one death; partial excision of one or more ribs, thirteen cases with four deaths. Of 51 cases of gunshot fracture of the sternum, only 18 terminated fatally. The mortality of penetrating wounds of the chest was not materially aftected by thora- centesis, which was performed 28 times with only nine recoveries. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1873.) Wounds and injuries of the neck.—Statistics of the wounds, &c., of the neck during the American War are collated by Dr. Otis (Surgeon- Gfeneral’s Keport), and given in abstract in the ‘American Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1873. There were 29 ligations of vessels, with 22 deaths; 14 tracheotomies, with 8 deaths; 6 laryngotomies, with 5 deaths; 2 excisions of tonsils successful and 87 extractions of balls, with 12 deaths. Tracheotomy was performed six times for gunshot wound, with four deaths and two recoveries. The same operation was performed twice and laryngotomy four times for oedema of the glottis, but only one of the six cases proved successful. Three operations were performed for diphtheria, one (laryngotomy) terminating in recovery, but both the others (tracheotomy) proving fatal. Tracheotomy was performed twice successfully for simple laryngitis, and twice once successfully and once without success—for apnoea resulting from quinsy, as was laryngotomy once, likewise without success. Ligation of the common carotid was performed 21 times, but only once successfully, and ligation of the third part of the subclavian once with a fatal result. Dr. Otis sums up against ligature of the common carotid for wounds of distal vessels.