Ill HYSTERIA—CHOREA—EPILEPSY. symptoms were somewhat remarkable. At the onset of the affection he had attacks which, though he did not fall or have convulsions, pre- sented a distinctly epileptic character, and during these attacks he was conscious of an unpleasant, “frightful,” smell, which he perceived at no other time. Later on supervened general convulsions, impairment of intelligence, loss of sight in the right eye, and death. The autopsy revealed a tumour in the left temporal lobe, extending into the anterior and posterior lobes, involving the sheath of the left optic nerve, and completely surrounding the latter, and protruding through the optic foramen into the orbit to the distance of two or three lines. The anterior perforated lamina was wholly involved, tensely stretched, and of a dull grey colour ; the left olfactory tract was free in its anterior half, but in its posterior half completely lost in the growth. The corpus striatum was intact. He gives, in conclusion, a number of cases in which similar epileptic attacks were preceded by some altera- tion in the sense of smell. Yon Mandech (‘ Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Epilepsie, ihrer Polge und Complicationen,” ‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ lvii, 237) gives the history and autopsy of an epileptic male, set. 52, who for some time had lost the sight of one eye. There was asymmetry of the skull and brain, and diffused yellowish-brown patches in the frontal lobes. In the left eye there was destruction of the retina of old standing, with atrophy of the vitreous body and the lens. The left optic nerve was of normal colour, but atrophied, and 2 mm. smaller than the right. The optic tracts seemed to be not fully developed behind the optic commissure; in colour and consistence they were normal, but divided into distinct limbs, one of which ran to the corpus geniculatum externum, the other to the c. g. internum. This division occurred earlier on the left than on the right side, and was evidently due to arrested development. M. Huppert (ib., lix, 367) finds traces of abumen in urine passed just after an attack of epilepsy. It is more abundant in severe seizures. Hyaline casts were present in about half the severe cases, and in a less number of the slight ones ; they always disappeared before the albumen. Red blood-cells did not occur, but spermatozoa were found in a tenth of the cases in which the attack was severe. He looks upon the albuminuria as a constant symptom of an epileptic attack. In cases of general paralysis he found albumen and red blood- cells present after epileptic attacks, and albumen without blood-cells in cases of acute mania. J. Crichton Browne (‘Journ. Ment. Sci.,’ xix, 19) gives the results of the observation of the brains of 60 epileptic patients, which do not add much to what we already know. Hypertrophy, especially of the connective tissue, and induration, with other changes due to dis- turbed circulation during the attacks, or to changes in the vessels in cases of long standing, seem the most marked characteristics. Obersteiner, “ Ueber den Status Epilepticus,” ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,5 1873, No. 23. Jamot, “ Cas tres grave d’Epilepsie, Guerison par la Medication bromuree ” (boy' IS), ‘ Gaz. des H6p./ 1873, 92. Le Faucbeux, “ Guerison d’un cas tres grave d Epilepsie ” (by the same drug), lb., 1060, Dickson, “ On the Dynamics of Epilepsy