231 DIAGNOSIS OP ANEURISM. be present in aneurism; when present it is variable in its character. The doubtfulness of this symptom has been illustrated repeatedly in the paper. 5. Exploratory puncture may fail to give exit to blood in an aneurism, and may give a jet of blood in several kinds of tumour. . 6. Diminished pulsation in the distal portion of the artery aftected with aneurism may or may not exist. It follows, therefore, not only that aneurism has no pathognomonic symptom, at least among those given above, but that the symptoms most relied on in the diagnosis of aneurism may be present when there is no aneurism, and may be absent when aneurism exists. Diagnosis of Aneurism.—Mr. T. Holmes contributes a paper in the ‘St. George’s Hospital Eeports,’ (vol. vii, p. 173) on “Pulsating Tu- mours which are not Aneurismal and on Aneurisms which are not Pul- sating Tumours, being a Contribution to the Diagnosis of Aneurism.” He tries to establish a clear distinction between the errors which are committed from trusting too implicitly to a single symptom, and those which are committed after a deliberate examination of all the circum- stances of the case. It is only where the surgeon has neglected to apply all the methods of examination at our disposal that criminal blame will attach to him fora mistake in diagnosis. He discusses the cases quoted by Dr. Stephen Smith. His consideration of them leads him to the conclusion that most errors arise from neglect of auscultation. In some cases paracentesis through a small opening might, he is inclined to think, be of use. He is persuaded that the rupture of aneurisms might often be delayed, if not prevented, by tapping them, of course through the smallest possible puncture, and with all due care. He says, “ Although, however, I maintain that the difficulties of diagnosis are rarer than might be imagined from the number of cases of mistaken diagnoses which are now on record, and although I cannot but think that in many of them a moderate amount of care, such as may reasonably be ex- pected from every surgeon in so grave a case, would have obviated them, I cannot but confess the existence, occasionally, of very great difficulties.” The causes of these difficulties are—(1.) The presence of transmitted pulsation in tumours, which, though they have no con- nection with arteries, yet lie on them and share their pulsation. When these tumours are superficial the difficulty is not very serious, but the case is widely different when the tumour is deep-seated. He quotes a case of Mr. Moore’s, (a.) There are, again, other tumours which derive pulsation, not from the contiguity of arteries, but from the presence in their substance of large cavities, whereby they are brought into con- tinuity with the arterial stream and thus approach very nearly to the character of aneurisms. Generally there are other symptoms (besides pulsation) which help us to diagnose these ; for instance, they are com- monly cancerous and connected with bone. He notes an exceptional case in which a cancerous mass connected with the kidney pulsated and had a bruit. After narrating a case of malignant tumour in the pop- liteal space considered to be an aneurism and alluding to various other cases, the author passes on to tumours which are aneurisms but do not pulsate. He details a case of abdominal aneurism in which the usual signs were absent. Of the causes assigned (by Pirogoff) which hinder