488 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. hydrochlorate as an emetic and expectorant. As an emetic he injects a one or two per cent, solution of the salt beneath the skin ; and finds that such a solution has its activity undiminished even when kept for months. The green colour which solution of apomorphine acquires when kept is no disadvantage. As an expectorant Dr. Fronmiiller administers a solution of the salt by the mouth. A dose of one or two grains of apomorphine hydro- chlorate is dissolved in sugared water, and of this a tablespoonful is given every two hours. It is said to be very efficacious in croup, hooping-cough, and asthma. Conia.—Damourette and Pelvet1 find that conia stimulates the spinal cord, but paralyses the motor nerves. The nerves seem to be first aflected, and when small doses are given only paralysis is observed ; but when the dose is large the stimulant effect on the spinal cord is rendered evident by the occurrence of tetanic spasms and convulsions. This effect on the cord is soon prevented from manifesting itself by the motor nerves which pass from it to the muscles becoming paralysed. This double action of conia on the cord and nerves explains its effects on the pupil, respiration, and heart. Conia renders the blood dark and prevents its coagulation. The author thinks that this power renders conia a valuable alterative. When applied locally conia first stimulates and then paralyses nerves and muscles, and disorganizes the tissues. Its double action on the cord and nerves is supposed by Fraser2 to be due to its really consisting of two substances, pure conia and methyl-conia. Verigo3 shows that the convulsions are not due to obstructed respiration. Burman4 5 recommends conia in doses of half a minim to three minims for subcutaneous injection in cases of acute mania where the brain lesion is not organic, and medicine, if given by the mouth, would require to be administered with the stomach pump. It is well to begin with minim for a dose. Conia subdues motor excitement, wards off emaciation and exhaustion, and promotes recovery. Acrid substances.—Prof. Bud. Buchheim6 has investigated several of these with the view of discovering to what principles their acridity is due. Castor oil was found to owe its acridity to ricinoleic acid. Indeed, castor oil consists almost entirely of the glyceride of that acid, with traces of stearin, palmitin, and cholesterin. The oil itself, strictly speaking, contains no acrid principle, the glyceride of ricinoleic acid not being acrid. The acridity is developed only when the acid is set free. Croton oil owes its acridity to the presence of crotonoleic acid, an acid closely related to ricinoleic acid. Neither croton oil nor 1 ‘Mem. de la Societe de Therap.,’ iii, 1871. 2 ‘ Journ. of Anat. and Physiol.,’ 1872, p. 498. 3 ‘Centralbl. f. d. Med. Wiss.,’ 1871, p. 28. 4 ‘ West Riding Lunatic Asyl. Med. Rep.,' vol. ii. 5 ‘Arch. d. Ileilk.,’ xv, p. r, 1873,