406 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. an irregularly rounded form. Their consistence varies; they may be so soft as to give the suspicion of fluid, or even as hard as a stone. The thickness of the external coat varies much, and this is a point of some importance as regards the more or less rapid development of the tumours. The anatomical relations of these tumours are almost iden- tical with those of the fluid. Histologically, solid tumours of the ovary may be fibrous, enchondroma, sarcoma, or carcinoma. The fibrous are simple or complex, fibro-myoma, fibro-sarcoma. Enehonad- roma of the ovary is very rare. Sarcoma of the ovary is said to occur very rarely, the text-books scarcely mention them. Under the car- cinomatous, he describes a new variety, “ lymphangioma kystomatosum,” it is characterized by the cystic formation, the dilatation of lymphatic vessels, and a proliferation of the stroma. Dr. Kronid Slavjansky communicated to the Anatomical Society of Paris, December, 1873, a paper on glandular filaments found in the ovary of an adult woman. These filaments have been found hitherto in the human ovary only in the young, during intra-uterine life, or soon after birth; exceptionally they have been found in children of the age of four. There is no conclusive observation of their having been found after the age of seven. He gives a description of the filaments found; this recognition is of great interest from a pathological anatomical point of view, as bearing upon the development of cystic tumours of the ovary. Their origin is uncertain, unless they are due to the per- sistence of those which normally exist in the newly born (£ Annales de G-ynecologie,’ Eeb. 1874). Dr. Benham writes on the value of the corpus iuteum as a proof of impregnation (‘Edin. Med. Journal,’ Aug. 1873). Ovariotomy. Mr. Hulke gives an account of three cases of ovarian turn our on which he operated in Middlesex Hospital. In the first case, a large multilocular cyst, one of the cyst had ruptured three days before the operation; there was no sign of peritonitis, the clamp was used and the patient made a good recovery. The second, a proliferous ovarian cyst, also did well. The third case, a young woman aged 21, who had a rapidly increased compound cyst which had commenced with pregnancy; the operation was performed as m the other cases, but there were adhesions : the patient died twenty-four hours after the operation. Dr. Marion Sims in an article on ovariotomy (‘Hew York Medical Journ.,’ 1873) thinks the death-rate is still too‘high, and that the great cause of death (septicaemia) is overlooked. He proposes to puncture the cul-de-sac of the vagina behind the cervix uteri, and to pass a tube of some sort into the peritoneal cavity to drain off any effusion which may take place in the cavity. It can do no harm and can be removed in a few days if no discharge comes. (£Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 1873') Dr. Grilmore relates a case where he removed through the vagina an ovarian cyst the size of an orange; the incision was made through the posterior cul-de-sac ; the woman was aged 48 and recovered (‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Science,’ Jan. 1874.) Mr. Cullingworth gives an account of an ovarian cyst found in an infant newly born (£ Obst. Journ.,’ Oct. 1874.)