13 FUBtJNCDLOsis, ICTHYOSIS. IDS be found in the dead carbuncle core, it is no longer possible to recognise the original seat of the affection. According to De Savignac (‘Bull. Gfin. de Therap.,’ lxxxiv, 529) herpetic diathesis has a great share in the etiology of furunculosis. Patients suffering from the latter frequently have such affections as pityriasis capitis, acne sebacea, eczema, &c. In the treatment of the disease he lays great weight on the salts of soda and potash, which he considers to exercise a depurative action on the blood and the secre- tions. Pie uses also a solution of arseniate of soda ('i in 200 of water), ofwhich he prescribes a tablespoonful in a little sugar and water in the morning fasting, and before the last meal in the evening. After giving this for twenty days he orders from 20 to 30 grammes of the sulphate of soda, repeats the arsenic after ten days, and concludes with the sulphate of soda. Pie also uses at the same time a decoction of borage or chicory, or an infusion of sarsaparilla. Acids are especially to be avoided during the employment of arsenic. Locally he uses poultices, and, after getting rid of the core, simple diachylon plaster. As to baths he prefers sulphur to alkaline ones, and recommends bran-baths when there is great skin irritation. To complete the cure, sea-bathing may be used, but with great caution, as it sometimes causes furuncular eruptions. (! Rep.') De Lisle, “ Case of Malignant Facial Carbuncle” (in upper lip of girl, ait. 19, fatal in ten days), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1873, ii, 4. Rogers, “A Case of Charbon” (sting of blue-bottle fly, death on second day), ‘Lancet,’ 1873, ii, 42. Icthyosis, Scleroderma, fyc. Boer (‘Ueber Icthyosis,’ Berlin, 1873) writes on a case of the affection in a man, set. 30, of good constitution. He had been the subject of it since his first year; only one other member of his family had suffered from it. The skin was thickened over almost his whole body with the exception of the face, and the various strata of epidermis, separated from one another by cracks and chinks, were overlaid like the scales of a coat of mail, varying in size in different places. On the breast, back, and lower extremities the scales were large, irregular, and polygonal; on the neck and arms they were smaller and regularly similar. They differed also in thickness, being thinnest on the shoulders, and thickest on the neck, back, and breast. Those on the neck were almost black in colour, those on the upper part of the breast and back biownish, while those on the sternum and lower extremities had a clear, shining, grey appearance. Over the elbow and tendo Achillis the collection ol epidermis was so large as to prevent motion of those parts. On the face the eruption was visible where no hair grew, the growth of beard and of hair over the whole body being slight. The secretion of the sweat-glands, absent of course where the epidermis was abnormally thickened, was abundant elsewhere, and the patient com- plained of itching, especially when there was increase of perspiration about the hands and feet. The eruption seems to have become slightly less in the autumn, but to have reappeared again in the course of a month. YVounds and boils, according to the patient’s own account were slow to heal. The microscopic examination of the epidermis, given at length in the text, presented nothing uncommon. ^