THE TIBIA. Ill are oval in form, the external being wider transversely, and tlie internal longer from before backwards. Between them is an irreg- ular interval, depressed in front and behind, where it gives attach- Fifr 99 Fig. 99.—Right Tibia from before. (A. T.) i £ 1, shaft, and shin or anterior border ; 2, inner tube- rosity ; 3, outer tuberosity ; 4, inner, and 5, outer, I condylar articular surface; 6, crucial spine, with fossa at its root in front ; 7, anterior tuberosity ; 8, lower articular surface for astragalus ; 9, malleolus internus. « r. W ment to the crucial ligaments and semilunar cartilages of the knee joint, and elevated in the middle, where is formed the spine. The summit of the spine presents two pro- minent tubercles, formed by the prolonga- tion upwards on its sides of the margins of the condylar portions ; the outer being turned slightly forwards, and the inner slightly backwards. On the sides of the upper extremity of the bone are two rounded eminences, the external and internal tuber- osities ; the outer one of these, somewhat smaller than the other, is marked posteriorly by a flat surface which articulates with the fibula, while the inner presents a groove for the insertion of the semi-membranosus mus- cle. Lower down, in front, is situated the anterior tuberosity or tubercle, rough inferiorly, where it gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae, and smooth above, where it is covered by a synovial bursa. The shaft of the tibia is three-sided, and diminishes in size as it descends for about two-thirds of its length, but increases some- what towards its lower extremity. The internal surface is convex and subcutaneous, except at the upper part where it is crossed by the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles. It is separated from the external surface by a sharp subcu- taneous, slightly sinuous crest, the shin ridge, jp t . which descends from the anterior tuberosity, and is smoothed away in the inferior third of the bone. The external surface is slightly hollowed in the larger part of its extent, where it gives origin to the tibialis anticus muscle ; but beneath the point where the crest disappears it turns forwards, becomes convex, and I is covered by the extensor tendons. The posterior surface is traversed obliquely in its upper third by the popliteal line—a rough mark which i extends upwards and outwards to the external tuberosity, giving attach- j ment to the soleus muscle, and separating a triangular area, in which the popliteus muscle lies, from the space below, which gives origin to the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus. The'posterior surface is