ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. INTRODUCTION. Object of Anatomy.—The object of Anatomy, in its most extended sense, is to. ascertain and mate known the Structure of Organised Bodies. But the science is divided into departments according to its subjects ; such as, Human Anatomy, in which, as in the present work, the struc- ture of man forms the principal subject; Comparative Anatomy, com- prehending, as a whole or in various subdivisions, the study of the structure of different animals ; and Vegetable Anatomy, comprehending the investigation of the structure of plants. Organs and Textures.—On examining the structure of an organised body, we find that it is made up of members or organs, through means of which its functions are executed, such as the root, stem and leaves of a plant, and the heart, brain, stomach, and limbs of an animal; and farther, that these organs are themselves made up of certain constituent materials named tissues or textures, as the cellular, woody, and vascular tissues of the vegetable, or the osseous, muscular, connective, vascular, nervous, and other textures, which form the animal organs. Most of the textures occur in more than one organ, and some of them indeed, as the connective and vascular, in nearly all, so that a multitude of organs, and these greatly diversified, are constructed out of a small number of constituent tissues, just ag many different words are formed by the varied combination of a few letters ; and parts of the body, differing widely in form, construction, and uses, may agree in the nature of their component materials. Again, as the same texture possesses the same essential characters in whatever organ or region it is found, it is obvious that the structure and properties of each tissue may be made the subject of investigation apart from the organs into whose formation it enters. General and Descriptive Anatomy.—The foregoing considerations naturally point out to the anatomist a twofold line of study, and have led to the subdivision of anatomy into two branches, the one of which treats of the nature and general properties of the component textures of the body ; the other treats of its several organs, members, and regions, describing the outward form and internal structure of the parts, their relative situation and mutual connection, and the successive conditions which they present in the progress of their formation or development. The former is usually named “ General ” Anatomy, or “ Histology the latter “ Descriptive” or “ Special ” Anatomy. * From tarrbs, a web. B