298 DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. short cranio-vertebral muscles. Of these muscles those included in the liist two groups may be considered as having their fibres passing out- wards from the middle : those in the third group as having then”fibres passing inwards ; those of the fourth group as having their fibres pass- ing in a nearly vertical direction ; and those of the fifth group, confined to the upper part of the vertebral column and to the head, may be looked upon as combining some examples of the others. Serrati Muscles.—The serratus posticus superior is a thin flat muscle, which arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nucha; and from the spines of the last cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebra; by a thin aponeurotic tendon forming about a third of the length of the muscle ; it is inserted by four fleshy digitations into the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. It is directed obliquely downward* and outwards, resting on the deep muscles and the angles of the ribs. The muscle is covered, excepting at its superior border, by the rhomboid and levator anguli scapula muscles. Fig. 216.—Dorsal Mus- Fig. 216. cles op the Upper Part op the Trunk. (A. T.). I I, first; VI, sixtli dor- sal vertebra, 1, upper part of the complcxus muscle j 2, splenius capitis ; 3, 3’, splenius colli ; 4, serratus posticus superior ; 5, up- per part of tlie longis- simus dorsi; 5', the same continued up on tlie left side into the transversalis cervicis; 5", 5", on the right side, the transver- salis cervicis spread out from its attachments ; 6, upper insertions of the sacro-lumbalis and acces- sorius ; 6', the same con- tinued up on the left side iuto the cervicalis ascen- dens ; 6", lower end of the latter muscle of the right side spread out from its attachments ; 7, small part of the spinalis dorsi; 8, right levator anguli sca- pulae ; S', on the left side, its upper part divided; 9, three of the levatores costarum on the right side. The serratus posticus inferior, broader and stronger than the pre- ceding muscle, passes outwards and upwards to the four lowest ribs ; it arises, by a thin aponeurotic membrane from the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, and is inserted by four fleshy digitations into the lower borders of the last four ribs. The uppermost of those digitations is very broad, and covers in part the second ; the last, varying in size with the length of the twelfth rib, is entirely concealed by the rest o the muscle (sec fig. 105, p. 191). The serratus inferior is coieiet 7