ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 3G4 (ft) The dorsal artery of the tongue, which is often replaced by several smaller branches. It arises from the deep portion of the lingual artery, beneath the hyo- glossua muscle, and ascends to supply the upper part, or dorsum, and the substance of tire tongue, ramifying as far back as the epiglottis. (fc‘) The sublingual branch. Talcing origin at the anterior margin of the hyo- glossus, this branch turns slightly outwards, under cover of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and between this and the sublingual gland. It supplies the substance of the gland, and gives branches to the mylo-hyoid and other muscles connected with the maxillary bone. Small branches are also distributed to the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the inside of the gums. (d) The ranine artery, which may be considered from its size and direction the continuation of the lingual artery. It runs forwards beneath the tongue, giving numerous branches as it proceeds, covered by the mucous membrane, and resting on the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Having reached the tip of the tongue, it has been said to anastomose with the corresponding artery of the other side; but this is denied by ITyrtl. In the last part of its course it lies quite superficially at the side of the framum. Varieties.—The origin of the lingual artery sometimes takes place from a trunk common to it and the facial artery. It is occasionaUy joined with the superior thyroid. The h go id branch is often deficient; and it appears that this branch varies in size inversely with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid. The sublingual branch varies in size. It is sometimes derived from the facial artery, and then perforates the mylo-hyoid muscle. The lingual artery has been seen to give off as unusual branches, the submental and ascending palatine. 3. Facial Artery.—The facial artery, taking origin a little above the lingual artery, is first directed obliquely forwards and upwards beneath the base of the maxillary bone; then changing its direc- tion, it passes upwards over the base of the lower maxilla, in front of the masseter muscle. Commencing here its course upon the face, it is directed forwards, near to the angle of the mouth, and ascends to the inner canthus of the eye, where it ends by anastomosing with the ophthalmic artery. In its whole course the artery is tortuous, a cir- cumstance connected with the great mobility of the parts on which it rests. In the neck, the facial artery, immediately after its origin, which is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the platysma and fascia, is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is then con- cealed in the substance of the submaxillary gland. Emerging from the gland, it turns over the border of the jaw, covered by the platysma: here the pulsation of the artery is easily felt, and the circulation through it may be readily controlled by pressure against the bone.- In its pro- gress over the face, it is covered successively by the platysma and the zygomatic muscles, and rests upon the buccinator, the levator anguli oris, and the levator labii superioris. The facial vein is separated by a considerable interval from the artery on the face. It takes nearly a straight course upwards, instead of in- clining forwards near the angle of the mouth, and it is not so tortuous as the artery. Branches of the facial nerve cross the vessel ; and the infraorbital nerve is beneath it, separated by the fibres of the elevator of the upper lip. A. Cervical branches.—The foRowing branches are derived from the facial artery below the lower jaw :— (a) The inferior or ascending palatine arterg. a branch which ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and reaches the pharynx doses to the border of the internal pterygoid muscle. After having given small branches