ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. maHeoIus; whilst the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is to the outer side of the artery. Relation to the J ems and Nerve.—The posterior tibial artery, like the other arteries below the knee, is accompanied by two venie comites. The posterior tibial nerve is at first on the inner side of the artery, but in the greater part of its course the nerve is close to the outer side of the vessel. Fig. 297.—Deep posterior view op the Arteries op the Leg (from Tiedemann). \ a, lower part of the adductor magnus muscle ; b, origin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius ; outer head and plantaris ; d, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle ; c, popliteus ; /, upper part of the soleus divided below its oi-igin from the head of the fibula; g, peroneus longus ; h, flexor longus pollicis ; i, flexor communis digitorum ; 1, upper part of the popliteal artery; 2, origin of the superior articular branches; 3, origin of the inferior articular branches ; the middle or azygos branch is seen between these numbers; 4, division of the popliteal artery into anterior and posterior tibial arteries ; 5, 5', posterior tibial; 6, peroneal artery; 6;, its continuation as posterior peroneal; between 5iand &, the communicating branch ; 7, calcaneal branches ; 8, external branches of the metatarsal of the dorsalis pedis artery. Branches.—The posterior tibial artery furnishes numerous small branches, and one large branch—the peroneal artery. Small Branches.—(a) Several muscular branches arise from the posterior tibial artery, and are dis- tributed principally to the deep-seated muscles in its neighbourhood, besides one or two of considerable size to the inner part of the soleus muscle. (b) The nutrient artery of the tibia, which is the largest of its kind in the body, arises from the pos- terior tibial artery near its commencement, and, after giving small branches to the muscles, enters the nutrient foramen in the bone, and ramifies on the medullary membrane. This vessel not unfre- quently arises from the anterior tibial artery. (c) A communicating branch from the peroneal artery, passing transversely, joins the posterior tibial about two inches above the ankle-joint. The peroneal artery lies deeply along the back part of the leg, close to the fibula. Aris- ing from the posterior tibial artery about an inch below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, it inclines at first obliquely towards the fibula, and then descends nearly perpen- dicularly along that bone and behind the outer ankle, to reach the side of the os calcis. In the upper part of its course, this artery is covered by the soleus muscle and the deep fascia, and afterwards by the flexor longus pollicis, which is placed over it as far as the outer