450 THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external of the two arteries resulting from the division of the common iliac forms a large continuous trunk, which- extends down- wards in the limb as far as the lower border of the poplitcus muscle, but, for convenience of description, it is named in successive parts of its course external iliac, femoral and popliteal. The external iliac artery, larger than the internal iliac, is placed within the abdomen, and extends from the division of the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart’s ligament, where the vessel enters the thigh, and is named femoral. Descending obliquely outwards, its course through the abdominal cavity may be marked by a line drawn from the left side of the umbilicus to a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. This line would also indicate the direction of the common iliac artery, of which the external iliac is the direct continuation. The vessel is covered by the peritoneum and intestines. It lies along the upper margin of the true pelvis, resting upon the inner border of the psoas muscle. The artery, however, is separated from the muscle by the fascia iliaca, to which it is bound, together with the external iliac vein, by the sub-peritoneal tissue. cRelation io Veins, &c.—The external iliac vein lies at first behind the artery with an inclination to the inner side; but, as both vessels ap- proach Poupart’s ligament at the fore part of the pelvis, the vein is on the same plane with the artery and quite to the inner side, being borne Fig. 288. Fig. 288.—View op THE PRINCIPAL AR- TERIES op a Male Pelvis. (A.T.) £ For the detailed de- scription of this figure see p. 438. 2', the right external ilfac artery, accompa- nied by the correspond- ing vein 4', passing below into the femoral vessel under Poupart’s ligament ; 12, epigas- tric artery winding to the inside of +, +, the spermatic cord ; the epigastric artery is cut short superiorly ; 13, circumflex iliac artery anastomosing with 15, branches of the ilio-lumbar ; 14, spermatic artery and vein descending to join the spermatic cord; + , within the pelvis, the vas deferens de- scending from the cord towards the bladder.