75 HOMOLOGIES OF THE BOXES OF THE HEAD. The general correspondence between the bones of the head in man and animals, implied in the names given to them in the foregoing table, is so well ascertained, and, in most instances, so obvious, that it is unnecessary to say more than that it is very generally acknowledged by comparative anatomists, and that it is chieny Fig. 64. Fig. 64.—Diagrammatic view of the Bones in the right half of a F(etal Skull from the inside. (A. T.) In this figure the bones have been slightly separated and displaced so as to bring the whole into one view : /, frontal; pa, parietal ; so, supra-occipital ; n, nasal ; /, lachry- mal ; ma, malar ; os, orbito-sphenoid ; as, ali-sphenoid ; sq, squamosal ; zy, zygomatic ; per, petro-mastoid ; eo, exoccipital; et, ethmoturbinal ; mx, maxilla ; mt, maxillo- turbinal; pm, premaxillary ; me, mesethmoid ; v, vomer ; pi, palatal; pt, pterygoid ; ps, presphenoid ; is, basisphenoid ; bo, basioccipital; c, bodies of 2nd, 3rd, and 4th cervical vertebrae; c', odontoid process; x, anterior arch of atlas ; s, spinous process of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th cervical vertebral ; cm, neural or medullary canal ; ch, a line in- dicating the position of the notochord passing through the vertebral bodies into base of the cranium, is; ty, tympanic ring, along with ml, i, and st, displaced from its connection with per ; ml, malleus ; c,mk, cartilage of Meckel; mil, lower jaw or mandible; i, incus ; st, stapes ; stli, stylo-hyal ; ch, cerato-hyal (lesser cornu); th, thyro-hyal (greater cornu); bit, basi-liyal (body of hyoid). on some points connected with the earliest condition, and the homological com- parison of a few of the bones, that differences of opinion continue to exist. Besides the general evidence in favour of the homologies of these bones which has been drawn from the study of their form, position and connections, strong confirmation of these views is also obtained from their relations to other organs. Among these, from the remarkable constancy of their relations, the passage of the nerves out of the cranium is one of the most important. Thus, the nerves