THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 545 an acute angle by the cliordct tympcwi, a small branch connected with the facial nerve, which descends from the inner end of the Glaserian fissure. It then passes between the internal pterygoid muscle and the lower maxilla, and is inclined obliquely inwards to the side of the tongue, over the upper constrictor of the pharynx, (where this muscle is attached to the maxillary bone,) and above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, the nerve crosses Wharton’s duct, and is continued along the side of the tongue to the apex, in contact with the mucous mem- brane of the mouth. (a) Communicating Ibranches are given to the submaxillary ganglion, at the place where the nerve is in contact with the submaxillary gland. Others form a plexus with branches of the hypoglossal nerve at the inner border of the hypo- glossus muscle. Branches to the mucous membrane of the mouth are given from the nerve at the side of the tongue, and supply also the gums. Some delicate filaments are likewise distributed to the substance of the sublingual gland. O) The lingual or terminal branches perforate the muscular structure of the tongue, and divide into filaments, which are continued almost vertically upwards to the conical and fungiform papillae. Near the tip of the tongue the branches of the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves are united. Inferior Dental Nerve.—The inferior dental nerve is the largest of the three branches of the lower maxillary nerve. It descends under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, behind and to the outer side of the gustatory nerve, and, passing between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, enters the inferior dental canal. In company with the dental artery, it pro- ceeds along this canal, and supplies branches to the teeth. At the mental foramen it bifurcates ; one part, the incisor branch, being continued onwards within the bone to the middle line, while the other, the much larger labial branch, escapes by the foramen to the face. When about to enter the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, the inferior dental nerve gives off the slender my lo-hyoid branch. (a) The mylo-hyoid branch is lodged in a groove on the inner surface of the ramus of the maxillary bone, in which it is confined by fibrous membrane, and is distributed to the lower or cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoideus and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. This nerve may be traced back within the sheath of the inferior dental to the motor portion of the inferior maxillary nerve. (b) The dental branches supplied to the molar and bicuspid teeth correspond to the niunber of the fangs of those teeth. Each branch enters the minute foramen in the extremity of a fang, and terminates in the pulp of the tooth. Not un- frequently a collateral branch supplies twigs to several teeth. (c) The incisor branch has the same direction as the trunk of the nerve : it ex- tends to the middle line from the point of origin of the labial branch, and sup- plies nerves to the canine and incisor teeth. (d) The labial or mental branch emerging from the bone by the foramen on the outer surface, dividesbeneath the depressor of theangle of the mouth into two parts. One of these, the outer division, communicating with the facial nerve, sup- plies the depressor anguli oris and orbicularis oris muscles, and the integument of the chin. The inner portion, the larger of the two, ascends to the lower lip beneath the depressor labii inferioris muscle, to which it gives filaments : the greater number of the branches end on the inner and outer surfaces of the lip. These inner branches assist only slightly in forming the plexus of union with the facial nerve. Varieties. —The lingual has been observed to form a single trunk with the inferior dental as far as the dental foramen. The inferior dental sometimes has one or two accessory roots from other divisions of the inferior maxillary. The most common of these is one which arises from the stem of the inferior maxil-