THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. 4SD upper limb in which valves are constantly found. It extends, like the corresponding artery, from the lower border of the axilla to the outer margin of the first rib ; it is covered by the pectoral muscles and the costo-coracoid membrane, and is placed to the inner side of the axillary artery. It is continuous below with the basilic vein of the arm, either alone or in conjunction with one of the deep brachial veins. Tributaries.—The axillary vein receives the subcutaneous veins of the arm, viz. the basilic at its commencement, the cephalic towards its termination , and between these the companion veins of the brachial artery ; it is also joined by the several veins corresponding1 with the branches of the axillary artery, viz., the two circumflex and the ftiibscapulav veins from the shoulder, the alar \ ein from the axilla! and the inferior, superior, and acrovvio-thoracic veins from the side of the chest. SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. The subclavian vein is the continuation of the axillary, but is not like it constantly provided with valves, although a pair may often be found near its termination (Struthers, loc. cit.). It extends from the outer margin of the first rib to the inner end of the clavicle, behind which it terminates by joining with the internal jugular vein to form the innominate or brachio-cephalic vein. The subclavian vein crosses over the first rib and behind the clavicle, not reaching so high up in the neck as the subclavian artery; it is covered by the clavicle, and by the subclavius and sterno-mastoid muscles, and lies on a plane anterior to the artery, from which, while resting on the rib, it is separated by the scalenus anticus muscle and the phrenic nerve. Tributaries.—(«) The external and anterior jugular veins open into the sub- clavian vein on the outer side of the scalenus anticus muscle. (b) The vertebral vein, commencing in branches which proceed from the peri- cranium and the deep muscles lying behind the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, passes outwards and downwards to reach the foramen in the transverse pro- cess of the atlas. Through this foramen, and through the canal formed by the corresponding foramina of the other cervical vertebra, the vein descends with the vertebral artery. Emerging at the foramen in the sixth vertebra, it runs forwards and downwards to join the subclavian vein close to its termination : a small branch sometimes descends through the foramen in the seventh vertebra, and opens separately into the subclavian. The vertebral vein is joined in its course by several branches from the neighbouring muscles; also, immediately before its termination, by a branch corresponding with the deep cervical artery; and in the same situation by another branch of considerable size, which descends in front of the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebra of the neck, and may be termed the external vertebral vein. It communicates frequently with the spinal veins in the neck, both those on the outer side, and those in the interior of the spinal canal. Varieties.—The subclavian vein has been seen to pass behind the scalenus anticus muscle along with the artery (Henle). In another case the vein and artery changed places with relation to the muscle. The vein has been seen several tunes to pass between the subclavius muscle and the clavicle (Luschka). Instead of being the continuation of a single axillary vein, the subclavian vein is sometimes made up by the union of two brachial veins (Henle) ; or it may receive as unusual branches a bronchial vein (Weber), or a superficialis colli inferior vein (Hyrtl). AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins are longitudinal vessels formed by the union of the veins corresponding to the arteries of the intercostal spaces, and