THE rUDIC NERVE. 611 c. Slender filaments are sent inwards to tlie corpus spongiosum urethrae ; some of these, before penetrating the erectile tissue, rim a considerable distance over its surface. The left wall has been removed as far as the sacrum behind and the symphysis pubis in front ; the viscera and the lower part of the levator ani have been removed ; a, the lower part of the aorta ; a', placed on the fifth lumbar ver- tebra, between the two common iliac arteries, of which the left is cut short ; b, the right external iliac artery and vein ; c, the sym- physis pubis ; d, the divided py- riformis muscle, close to the left auricular surface of the sacrum ; c, bulb of the urethra covered by the accelerator urinse muscle ; the membranous part of the urethra cut short is seen passing into it ; 1, placed on the crest of the ilium, points to the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh passing over the iliacus muscle ; 2, placed on the psoas muscle, points to the genito-crural nerve ; 3, obturator nerve ; 4, 4, placed on the lumbo-sacral cords ; that of the right side points to the gluteal artery cut short ; 4', the superior gluteal nerve ; 5, placed on the inside of the right sacral plexus, points by four lines to the anterior divisions of the four upper sacral nerves, which, with the lumbo-sacral cord, unite in the plexus ; 5', placed on the fifth piece of the sacrum, points to the fifth sacral nerve ; 5", the visceral branches proceeding from the third and fourth sacral nerves ; 6, placed on the lower part of the coccyx, below the coccygeal nerves ; 7, placed on the line of division of the pelvic fascia, points to the nerve of the levator ani muscle ; 8, placed at the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, points to the cutaneous nerves of the anus ; 9, nerve of the obturator internus ; 10", the pudic nerve ; 10', is placed above the muscular branches of the perineal nerve ; 10,* the anterior and posterior superficial perineal nerves, and on the scrotum the distribution of these nerves and the inferior pudendal nerve ; 11, the right dorsal nerve of the penis ; 11', the nerve on the left crus penis which is cut short ; 12, the continuation of the lesser sciatic nerve on the back of the thigh ; 12', the inferior pudendal branch ; 13, placed on the transverse process of the fifth lumbar ver- tebra, marks the lowest lumbar sympathetic ganglion ; 14, placed on the body of the first piece of the sacrum, points to the upper sacral sympathetic ganglia ; between 14 and 6, are seen the remaining ganglia and sympathetic nervous cords, as well as their union with the sacral and coccygeal nerves, and at 6, the lowest ganglion or ganglion impar. Fig. 372.—Right Side op the Interior op tiie Male Pelvis, with the Principal Nerves displayed (after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). % Fig. 372. B.—The dorsal nerve of the penis, the upper division of the pudic nerve, accompanies the pudic artery in its course between the layers of the deep perineal or subpubic fascia, and afterwards through the suspen- sory ligament, to reach the dorsum of the penis, along which it passes as far as the glands, where it divides into filaments for the supply of that part. On the penis, this nerve is joined by branches of the sympathetic system, and it sends outwards numerous offsets to the integument on the upper surface and sides of the organ, including the prepuce. One large branch penetrates the corpus cavernosum penis. r r 2