50 BONES OF THE HEAD. giving attachment to the soft palate or velum : anteriorly it articu- lates with the palate plate of the superior maxillary bone, and inter- nally by a thick serrated border with its fellow of the opposite side, forming with it a ridge or crest for articulation with the vomer] continuous with that of the superior maxillaries; externally, at its junction with the vertical plate, it is grooved by the extremity of the posterior palatine canal. Its superior surface is smooth, and forms the back part of the floor of the nasal cavity; its inferior surface is rough, and is marked near its posterior border by a transverse ridge which gives attachment to the tendinous fibres of the tensor palati muscle. The vertical plate is very thin. Its internal or nasal surface is divided into two parts, corresponding to the middle and inferior meatus of the nose, by a nearly horizontal ridge which articulates with the inferior turbinated bone. The external surface is smooth, and at its upper part forms the internal Avail of the spheno-maxillary fossa, while the lower part is hollowed into a deep groove, completing with the superior maxil- lary the posterior palatine canal, which transmits the large descending palatine nerve and vessels. In front of this canal the external surface is in contact with the internal surface of the maxillary bone and the inner side of the antrum ; behind the canal it articulates interiorly Avith the hinder border of the maxilla, superiorly with the inner surface of the pterygoid process. The pyramidal process' or tuberosity fits into the cleft between the pterygoid plates. It presents posteriorly a triangular surface which is smooth and grooved, and completes the pterygoid fossa ; on its sides it is rough for articulation with the borders of the 'pterygoid plates. Inferiorly, close to its connection with the horizontal plate, are two small foramina, the posterior and external small palatine foramina, the extremities of two minute canals which transmit the smaller palatine nerves ; the external one is the smaller and is inconstant. The orbital process surmounts the anterior margin of the vertical plate. It is somewhat pyramidal in shape, and has five surfaces, tAvo of Avhich, the superior and external, are free, and the rest articulated. The superior surface forms the posterior angle of the floor of the orbit; the external looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, the anterior articulates with the maxillary, the internal with the ethmoid, and the posterior, which is small and only exists towards the extremity of the process, articulates with the sphenoidal spongy bone. The orbital surface is frequently found enlarged from the union Avith the palate bone of a portion of bone ossifying from a separate centre, usually united with the ethmoid or sphenoid, and already described Avith the sphenoidal spongy bone (p. 40). The sphenoidal process curves upAvards, inwards, and backwards from the posterior part of the vertical plate. Its superior or external surface is in contact with the sphenoidal spongy bone and the base of the internal pterygoid plate, and is grooved for the completion of the pterygo-palatine canal; its internal or under surface looks to the posterior nares ; and at its base a third surface looks forwards and ont- Avards into the spheno-maxillary fossa. Its inner extremity is in con- tact with the Aving of the vomer. The sphenopalatine foramen is formed in greatest part by the deep notch between the orbital and sphenoidal processes, and is completed above by the sphenoidal spongy bone. It leads from the spheno-