585 the circumflex nerve. i n inwov Emnoh which are distributed to the deltoid and SrnS“or muS, the integument of the shoulder, and the shoulder- joint. i a The upper portion -winds round the upper part of the humerus, extending to the anterior border of the deltoid muscle, to which it is distributed. One or two cutaneous filaments, penetrating between the muscular fibres, are bent downwards and supply the integument over the lower part of the muscle. h. The lower branch supplies offsets to the back part of the deltoid, and furnishes the nerve to the teres minor, which is remarkable in presenting a gangli- form enlargement. It then turns round the posterior border of the deltoid below' the middle, and ramifies in the integument over the. lower two-thirds of that muscle, one branch extending to the integument over the long end of the triceps muscle. c. An articular filament for the shoulder-joint arises near the commencement of the nerve, and enters the capsular ligament belowr the subscapular muscle. Varieties.—In tw-o instances Turner has described a branch of the circumflex nerve which supplies the teres major. (Joum. of Anat. vol. vi., p. 104.) Internal cutaneous nerve.—At its origin from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, this nerve is placed on the inner side of the axillary artery. It becomes cutaneous about the middle of the arm, and after perforating the fascia, or, in some cases, before doing so, is divided into two parts ; one destined for the anterior, the other for the posterior surface of the forearm. Fig. 35S.— Distribution of the PosteriorCutaneous Nerves of the Shoulder and Arm (aftei Hnschleid and Leveille). i 1 supra-acromial branches of the cervical nerves de- scending on the deltoid muscle ; 2, ^cendmg or reflected •md 2' descending cutaneous branches of the cucumttex nerve 3, inferior external cutaneous of the mus^lo'sfp^ nerve • 4, external and posterior cutaneous branches of the muscuio-cutaneous nerve to the forearm ; 5, interna cutaneous of the musculo-spiral ; branches • 7, twigs of the nerve of Wnsberg, 8, uppei posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve ; 9, lower branch of the same. Fig. 358. a. The anterior branch crosses at the bend of the elbow behind (in some cases over) the median basilic vein, and distributes filaments in front of the forearm, as far as the waist; one of these is, in some instances, joined with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. b. The posterior branch inclines obliquely downwards at the inner side of the basilic vein, and winding to the back of the forearm, over the prominence of the internal condyle of the humerus, extends somewhat below the middle of the fore- arm. Above the elbow this branch is connected with the smaller internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and afterwards communicates with the outer portion of the internal cutaneous, and, according to Swan, with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. e. A branch to the integument of the arm pierces the fascia near the axilla, and