SUPERFICIAL PALMAR ARCII. 411 the high ulnar separates is afterwards divided into the radial artery and the , interosseous, the last of which is usually derived from the ulnar; it appears , therefore probable that the abnormal arrangement results from early obstruction i of the ulnar artery below the origin of the interosseous, and the development of 1 a superficial vas aberrans, which unites the portion of vessel below the ohstmc- ' tion with the axillary or brachial trunk. The interosseous artery in such cases of c abnormality thus comprises not only the ordinary interosseous branch, hut like- • "wise the portion of ulnar artery above the obstruction j and, in accordance with this view, we find that the recurrent branches are derived from it. As to size, the ulnar artery presents some peculiarities which, being accom- j panied by deviations of an opposite and compensating chaiacter in the radial I artery, will be noticed with that vessel. Branches.—The anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent branches frequently arise \ by a common trunk. One or both have been seen to arise from the brachial I artery. The anterior and posterior interosseous arteries are occasionally given separately f from the ulnar. The common interosseous trunk has been found to arise above 0 its ordinary situation, taking origin from the [brachial, and even (but more 1 rarely) from the axillary artery. The anterior interosseous presents some stinking i varieties of excess in its branches, usually connected with a deficiency in the ; radial or ulnar arteries : the most important of these is enlargement of the :1 median branch. Median artery.—The branch accompanying the median nerve is sometimes : much enlarged, and in such cases may be regarded as a reinforcing vessel. It is i generally a branch of the anterior interosseous, but sometimes of the ulnar ; and more rarely a median branch has been met with descending from the brachial ! artery. Accompanying the median nerve beneath the annular ligament into the ; palm of the hand, the median artery ends most frequently by joining the super- i ficial palmar arch, sometimes by forming digital branches, in other cases by | joining digital branches given from other sources. SUPERFICIAL PALMAR ARCH. The superficial palmar arch or artery is the continuation of the ulnar artery into the hand. Changing its course near the lower border of the annular ligament, this artery turns obliquely outwards across the palm of the hand towards the middle of the muscles of the thumb, where it terminates by inosculating with the superficial volar branch of the radial artery. In its course across the hand, the palmar artery describes a curve, having its convexity directed towards the fingers, and extending downwards somewhat lower than a line on a level with the phalangeal articulation of the thumb. The superficial palmar artery rests at its commencement on the annular ligament of the wrist, and slightly on the short muscles of the little finger ; then on the tendons of the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves, the latter nerve accompanying the vessel for a short distance. It is covered towards the ulnar border of the hand by the palmaris brevis, and afterwards by the palmar fascia and the integument. Branches.—The branches given off by the superficial palmar arch, whicl^ are generally numerous, are as follow. («) The deep or communicating branch arises from the ulnar artery at the commencement of the palmar arch a little beyond the pisiform bone, sinks deeply between the flexor brevis and the abductor of the little huger, and inosculates with the palmar termination of the radial artery, thereby completing the deep palmar arch. (o) Small recurrent branches, following a retrograde course towards