ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 172 the femoral surface ; and in extreme flexion the patella, which has been gradually turned outwards by the increasing prominence of the inner condyle, rests by its innermost facet on the outer margin of that condyle. The articula- tion between each condyle and the opposed almost flat surface of the tibia, while resembling, is not exactly a hinge joint, and extension and flexion, the move- ments of which it is capable, are produced by a combination of gliding, rolling, and rotation. If the condyles of the femur be examined as they rest upon the tibia in the flexed position of the joint, it will be seen that the inner condyle is longer than the outer, and that its anterior portion inclines obliquely outwards, to reach the patellar surface. In the movement of extension the condyles move parallel to one another, both gliding and rolling until extension is nearly com- pleted, and then, the anterior part of the rolling surface of the external condyle having already come into contact with the tibia, the inner condyle continues to glide backwards, bringing its oblique anterior part into contact with the tibia, so that the bone is rotated inwards on the tibia, and over-extension is prevented, not merely by the tightness of the ligaments, but by the femur being pressed up against the tibial spine. In complete extension the lateral ligaments and the external crucial ligament are tight, while the posterior crucial ligament is relaxed ; in flexion, the posterior crucial ligament only is tightened, the others being relaxed. In extension of the joint no rotation of the leg is possible: in the flexed condition a considerable amount is allowed. The semilunar cartilages being loosely attached to the head of the tibia, move forwards in extension and backwards in flexion of the joint; and further, as the condyles rolling upon the tibia present to the condylar surfaces of that bone portions having different curvatures, each cartilage, like a moveable wedge, is contracted round the con- dyle during flexion of the joint and relaxed during extension. In extension of the knee, as the weight of the body keeps the bones in their position, the extensor muscles are relaxed, the patella drops down from its position in contact with the femur, and the ligamentum mucosum then comes into play, supporting the synovial membrane and fat below the pateRa. As the line of the centre of gravity of the body in the erect attitude descends in front of the axis of motion of the knee-joint, there is a tendency to over extension of the joint, which is resisted by the tension of the two lateral and the posterior ligaments, as well as of the anterior crucial, and thus the maintenance of the erect attitude without muscular effort is partly due to the mechanism of the knee-joint. (See Meyer, op. cit.; Goodsir, “ Anatomical Memoirs,” vol. ii. pp. 220, 231 : Langer, “ Sitz- ungsber d. Acad, der Wissensch. Wien,” 1858 ; Henke, “ Zeitschr. fur rat. Med.” v. viii., 1859.) TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS. The tibia and fibula are connected at their upper and lower extremities by synovial articulations, and their shafts are united by an interosseous membrane. Upper tibio-fibular articulation.—The superior extremities of the bones present two fiat oval articular surfaces, retained in close contact by an anterior and a posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, both of which pass upwards and inwards from the head of the fibula to the external tuberosity of the tibia. The synovial membrane which lines this joint not unfrequently communicates posteriorly with that of the knee. The interosseous membrane or ligament, which connects the shafts of the tibia and fibula, passes between the external ridge of the tibia and the ridge on the inner surface of the fibula, and is composed for the most part of parallel fibres running outwards and downwards, only a few fibres crossing them in a different direction. The membrane is broader above than below, and presents superiorly an elongated opening for the transmission of the anterior tibial vessels, and inferiorly