295 DEEP LATERAL CERVICAL MUSCLES. hyoid bone, but the larynx is raised by the action of the tliyro-hyoid muscles. L During- deglutition the action of the thyro-hyoid muscles, by approximating the .■ thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone, facilitates the descent of the epiglottis on the i superior aperture of the larynx. DEEP LATERAL AND PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES OP THE NECK. The SCALENI muscles form a group of strong muscular columns, i which are usually three in number, but sometimes only two. All of :! them are subdivided superiorly into musculo-tendinous slips, corrc- t|( sponding in number with their vertebral attachments. The anterior scalenus muscle is attached superiorly to the anterior ■jjf tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth 4 cervical vertebrae, and inferiorJy by a thick flattened tendon to the J scalene tubercle, a rough part of the inner border and upper surface of f; the first rib in front of the subclavian groove. Relations.—This muscle is placed deeply : in its lower part it is crossed by ip the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and in its whole length it is tra- il versed by the phrenic nerve passing obliquely from above downwards and a inwards. The subclavian vein and artery pass respectively in front and behind rj its inferior attachment. The nerves of the brachial plexus emerge from behind j its outer border above the subclavian artery. The rectus capitis anticus major si arises on its inner side, the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid ■a artery lies in the groove between that muscle and the scalenus, and in front is ' the internal jugular vein. ! Fig. 215.—The Deep Lateral and Prevertebral Mus- ij CLES OF THE NECK FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) i «, cut surface of the I basilar process; b, transverse 4 process of the atlas; c, trans- 1 verse process of the seventh 4 cervical vertebra; d, body of l the first, d', of the fourth dor- a sal vertebra; e, first, and e', l second rib ; 1, rectus capitis at anticus major muscle ; 2, rec- ai tus capitis anticus minor; 3, f middle part, 3', upper part, and '■> 3", lower part of the longus colli; *5 4, rectus lateralis ; 4', first , pair, and 4", second pair of ! intertransversales ; 5, scalenus > anticus of the right side ; 5', the tendon of attachment to 1 the first rib on the left side ; 6, scalenus medius ; 6', lower por- tion of the corresponding mus- ’< cle of the left side ; 7, scalenus j posticus, its superior attach - J ments shown upon the left side ; 8, upper part of the levator >1 scapulae drawn out from its * vertebral attachments ; 9, 1 splenius colli, shown in the ! 1 same manner. 1 he scalenus medius is attached superiorly to the posterior tubercles Fig. 215.