MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIME. 232 Actions. The glutens maasimus muscle is the chief extensor of the hip-joint. By means of it the bent thigh is brought into a line with the body. It is not in action in the ordinary movements of walking or in standing on level ground, but it is so in ascending an incline or a stair, and in the exercises of leaping or dancing, and in rising from the sitting posture. Its most powerful action, and that in connection with which it is so largely developed in the human subject, is to extend the trunk upon the high when bent forward. The muscle acts also as an adductor and external rotator of the limb. But although the full contraction of the glutei maximi is required to bring the body into the erect posture, it is not necessary for its maintenance when complete, that being effected chiefly by the tension of certain ligaments and fascia; passing over the joints, while the body is so poised that the centre of gravity of the trank is placed slightly behind the vertical plane passing through the middle of the hip-joints. The gluten* rnedivs and minim ns are powerful abductors of the thigh, and along with the tensor vaginae femoris, come principally into action in supporting the body on one limb, and in the rotation of the pelvis on the two limbs alternately which takes place in walking. Their anterior fibres draw forwards the great trochanter, and rotate the limb inwards, while the posterior part produces outward rotation. The pyriformis, obturator intermix, gemelli and qvadratns femoris muscles sup- port the hip-joint posteriorly, and rotate the limb outwards. These muscles may also act as extensors when the thigh is strongly flexed. The obturator externns, besides being an external rotator, is also a flexor and adductor of the thigh, as is the case in the uppermost of the two limbs when we cross the knees in sitting. It supports the hip-joint posteriorly and inferiorly. POSTERIOR FEMORAL OR HAMSTRING MUSCLES. At the back of the thigh are three long flexor muscles of the knee- joint ; viz., the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. The biceps flexor cruris muscle consists of two parts, arising one from the hip-bone, the other from the femur, which unite inferiorly to terminate on the fibula. The long head arises by a tendon common to it and the semitendinosus from the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity; the short head arises from the outer lip of the linea aspera in its whole extent, from the upper part of the line leading thence to the outer condyle, and from a part of the adjacent external intermuscular septum. The muscular fibres from both heads end in a common tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula by two portions, one on each side of the external lateral ligament of the knee- joint. Some of the fibres of the tendon, passing forwards and down- wards, are inserted into the front of the tibia, and others passing backwards strengthen the fascia of the leg. JRelations.—The origin of the biceps is covered by tlie gluteus maximus, the rest of the muscle is subcutaneous. It rests upon the head of the semimembra- nosus, the great sciatic nerve, and the adductor magnus : its inner border is in contact with the semi-tendinosus and at its lower end it forms the upper and outer boundary of the popliteal space. Varieties.—The short head may be absent, or there may be an additional long head arising from the tuber ischii, or from the linea aspera, or from the inner condylar ridge of the femur, or from various other parts. A slip has been found passing from the long head to the tendo Achillis (Otto). The semitendinosus muscle, closely united at its origin with the biceps, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the tendon common to it with the biceps, for about three inches ; it descends on the back of the thigh, and terminates below the middle in a long, rounded, and slender tendon, which passes along the inner side of the