THORACIC BRANCHES OF AXILLARY ARTERY. 395 follows, viz., behind it, the circumflex and musculo-spiral; to its inner side, the ulnar and the two internal cutaneous ; to the outer side, the external cutaneous and median. The external cutaneous and the circumflex nerves leave the artery in the axilla, and at the lower part of the axilla median nerve is often before the vessel; in an operation, that nerve might serve as a guide to the position of the artery, for it could be distinguished from the other large nerves (ulnar and musculo- spiral) by the circumstance of its being the nearest to the pectoral muscle. Beyond the border of the pectoralis major, the artery is covered only by the skin and fascia on the inner side; and here the flow of blood may be controlled by pressure of the finger directed out- wards against the humerus. BRANCHES OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. The branches of the axillary artery consist of the external thoracic branches furnished to the muscles of the chest, the subscapular branch to the shoulder, and the anterior and posterior circumflex branches to the upper part of the arm. The branches are not constant in their number, size, or mode of origin. 1. The short thoracic artery (thoracica suprema), a branch of incon- siderable size, arises at a point internal to the pectoralis minor muscle, and inclines downwards and inwards across the first two intercostal spaces, anastomosing with the internal mammary and intercostal branches contained in them, and terminates between the pectoral muscles. 2. The acromio-thoracic axis (art. thoracica humeraria), of consider- able size, and by far the most constant of the thoracic branches of the axillary, arises from its forepart at the inner border of the pectoralis minor muscle, and soon divides into branches which take different directions. (a) The acromial branches pass partly to the deltoid muscle and partly to the upper surface of the acromion, and anastomose with the suprascapular and posterior circumflex arteries. (Zi) The humeral branch passes down in the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and is distributed to their margins ; it is accompanied by the cephalic vein. (c) The thoracic branches are distributed to the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, and anastomose with the other thoracic arteries. 00 The clavicular branch, very small, passes inwards to the subclavius muscle. 3. The long thoracic or external mammary artery is directed down- wards and inwards, along the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and is distributed to the mamma, and to the serratus and pectoral muscles, and anastomoses with the external branches of the intercostal arteries. 4. The alar thoracic branch is a very small vessel and not constant, being frequently wanting, and having its place supplied by branches from the thoracic and subscapular arteries. It is distributed to the lymphatic glands and the fatty tissue in the axilla. o. Subscapular Artery.—This branch, the largest given off by the axillary artery, arises close to the lower border of the subscapular muscle, along which it proceeds downwards and backwards, towards