THE AORTA. 852 ■which cannot be explained by what is as yet known of the modes of develop, ment of the branchial vascular arches. The existence of a right aortic arch, that is, one passing to the right of the trachea and gullet, instead of the usual left arch, is easily explained on the sup. position of the fourth right branchial arch having been developed instead of the left; and accordingly there are instances of this variety, in which no other deviation from the natural condition of the parts exists, beyond what proceeds from the change of side taken by the aortic arch, leading to the innominate or brachio-cephalic artery being a left one, or furnishing the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and the succeeding vessels being the light carotid and right sub- clavian. The recurrent laryngeal nerve forms its sling on the right side, round the aortic arch, and on the left round the arch of the subclavian artery. Under the same division as the foregoing might also be brought those remark- able and numerous cases of varieties in the mode of closure of the ductus arteri- osus and of its union with the aortic root or other vessels ; but these and other modifications of the variations of the arches may best fall under the next division. 4. Varieties of the posterior part of the arch and (Indus arteriosus belong pro- perly to the changes occurring in connection with the posterior embryonic aortic roots. One of the most frequent varieties of this group is that of the subclavian artery (of the right side, when the aortic arch is left or normal) rising, as it has been described, from the back part of the arch, or fourth in the series of vessels pro- ceeding from it, but which, according to embryological elucidation, would be more .correctly designated as the subclavian artery formed in connection with one of the posterior aortic roots ; the natural anterior root and arch being abnormally closed. In such cases the subclavian artery takes its course behind the trachea and gullet to reach its subsequent natural place as it passes between the scalene muscles and over the first rib. Fig. 245. Fig. 245.—Diagram of the natural origin of Vessels from the Aortic Arch as compared with the Displaced Sub- clavian Arterv. (I). The normal disposition ; (II), the right subclavian artery, displaced or proceeding from the right aortic root. A, A,, ascending and descending parts of the thoracic aorta ; P, pul- • monary stem; cl, ductus arteriosus ; a, right aortic root or its • remains ; a', left aortic root; c, common carotid arteries; i,, innominate artery ; s, right, and s', left subclavian arteries; v,. right, and v', left vertebral arteries. A similar variety may occur in an instance of right: aortic arch, in which case it is the left subclavian artery •which takes the abnormal course. In both examples of this variety, the anterior part of the subclavian arch being absent, the inferior laryngeal nerve is not recurrent, but passes directly to the larynx, without being drawn down as a sling or loop by the subclavian artery. There are also many instances of transitions or grada- tions between these cases and the completely double aortic, arfch. See a paper on “ Varieties of the Arch of the Aorta,” by Turner, in Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Review, 1863, and “ Description of a Case of Right Aortic Arch,” by Allen Thomson, in Glasg. Med. Journ. 1862, in which such cases are more fully explained, and also the works of Henle, Hyrtl and Strutliers. In some of the instances of aberrant subclavian artery of the kind now referred to, the vertebral artery detached from the subclavian, and rises directly from “ Under the same division may be biought closure of the ductus arteriosus and its IS those numerous varieties in the union with the aorta or other vessels,-