TIIE CCELIAC, AORTIC, AND MESENTERIC PLEXUSES. 641 connected with the semilunar ganglia and renal plexuses, which are extended on the sides of the aorta, and which meet in several larger communicating branches over the middle of that vessel. It is joined by branches from some of the lumbar ganglia, and presents not unfrequently one or more distinct ganglionic enlarge- ments towards its centre. The aortic plexus furnishes the inferior mesenteric plexus and part of the spermatic, gives some filaments to the lower vena cava, and ends below in the hypogastric plexus. Inferior Mesenteric Plexus.—This plexus is derived principally from the left lateral part of the aortic plexus, and closely surrounds with a network the inferior mesenteric artery. It distributes nerves to the left or descending part and the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and assists in supplying the rectum. The nerves of this plexus, like those of the superior mesenteric plexus, are firm in texture and of a whitish colour. The highest branches (those on the left colic artery) are connected with the last branches (middle colic) of the superior mesenteric plexus, while others in the pelvis unite with offsets derived from the pelvic plexus. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. The hypogastric plexus, the assemblage of nerves destined for the supply of the viscera of the pelvis, lies invested in a sheath of dense connective tissue, in the interval between the two common iliac arteries. It is formed by eight or ten nerves on each side, which descend from the aortic plexus, receiving considerable branches from the lumbar ganglia, and, after crossing the common iliac artery, interlace in the form of a flat plexiform mass placed in front of the lowest lumbar vertebra. The plexus contains no distinct ganglia. At the lower end it divides into two parts, which are directed forwards, one to each side of the pelvic viscera, and form the pelvic plexuses. PELVIC PLEXUS. The pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses, one on each side, are placed in the lower part of the pelvic cavity by the side of the rectum, and of the vagina in the female. The nerves, prolonged from the hypogastric plexus, enter into repeated communications as they descend, and form at the points of connection small knots, which contain a little ganglionic matter. After descending some way, they become united with branches of the spinal nerves, as well as with a few offsets of the sacral ganglia, and the union of all constitutes the pelvic plexus. The spinal branches, which enter into the plexus, are furnished from the third and fourth sacral nerves, especially the third ; and filaments are likewise added from the first and second sacral nerves. Small ganglia are formed at the places of union of the spinal nerves, as well as elsewhere in the plexus (plexus gangliosus—Tiedemann). From the plexus so constituted, numerous nerves are distributed to the pelvic viscera. They correspond with the branches of the internal iliac artery, and vary with the sex; thus, besides hhemorrhoidal and vesical nerves, which are common to both sexes, there are nerves special to each :—namely, in the male for the prostate, vesicula seminalis. and vas deferens ; in. the female, for the vagina, uterus, ovary, and Fallo- pian tube. Ihe nerves distributed to the urinary bladder and the vagina contain a larger proportion of spinal nerves than those furnished to the other pelvic viscera.