muscles of tile palate. 289 locked the tonsil. The constricted passage between the anterior pillars leading from the mouth to the pharynx, is called the isthmus of the Fig. 213.—Diagrammatic View of the Muscles of the Pharynx, &c., from BEHIND. (A. T.) g The posterior wall of the pharynx has been divided by a vertical incision m the middle line, and the cut edges drawn to the side so as to expose the nasal, buccal, and laryngeal openings ; a, is above the cut surface of the basi-occipital bone, and below that are the posterior nares ; b, cartilage of the left Eustachian tube ; c, back of the ramus of the lower jaw ; d, posterior border of the thjToid cartilage j c, upper part of the ciicoid cartilage ; /, base of the tongue above the epiglottis; g, lower end of the pharynx leading into the gullet; 1, supe- rior constrictor of the pharynx seen from within, and part of the middle con- strictor ; 2, palato-pharyngeus ; 2', the lower part of the same muscle, on the right side ; 3, placed on the internal pterygoid muscle, points to the levator palati; 4, the right circumflexus palati muscle winding round the hamular process; 5, the azygos uvula ; above e, the transverse arytenoid, and below it on each side the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle. fauces. The soft palate is acted on by five pairs of elongated muscles, two superior, one intermediate, and two inferior. The palato-glossus muscle, or constrictor isthmi faucinm, occupies the anterior pillar of the fauces. Superiorly it is anterior to all the other muscles of the velum, and its fibres are continuous with those of its fellow of the opposite side; inferiorly, it is lost on the side of the tongue. The palato-pharyngeus muscle, occupying the posterior pillar of the pharynx, arises in the soft palate by fibres connected with those of the opposite side, and passing partly above and partly below the levator palati and azygos muscles. As the muscle descends it becomes greatly expanded, and its fibres are found extended from the posterior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, back to the middle line of the pharynx posteriorly. The azygos uvulae muscle (Morgagni), so called from having been supposed to be a single muscle, consists of two slips, which arise, one on each side of the middle line, from the tendinous structure of the soft palate, and, sometimes, from the spine of the palate plate, and descend into the uvula. The two slips are separated by a slight interval above, and unite as they descend. The levator palati muscle arises from the extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in front of the orifice of the carotid canal, and from the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. Ap- proaching the middle line as it passes downwards and forwards, it is inserted aponeurotically into the posterior part of the soft palate, and VOL. I, jr