LINGUAL ARTERY. 3G3 j si distributes branches to its substance, and communicates freely with the branches of the inferior thyroid artery. Branches.—Besides the branches furnished to the muscles which cover it, and to the thyroid body, together -with some to the lowest constrictor of the pharynx, the superior thyroid furnishes the following offsets, which have received distinc- tive names:— (a) The hyoid, a small branch, running transversely inwards immediately below the os hyoides, and assisting to supply the soft parts connected with that bone. This little artery sometimes unites, across the middle line, with its fellow from the opposite side. (jb) A superficial descending or sterno-mastoid branch, which passes downwards a short distance over the sheath of the large cervical vessels, and ramifies in the stemo-mastoid and the muscles attached to the thyroid cartilage, as well as in the platysma and neighbouring integuments. The position of this branch with respect to the sheath of the carotid artery is the only circumstance which gives it interest. This branch frequently arises directly from the external carotid. (c) The laryngeal branch, or superior laryngeal artery, proceeding inwards in company with the superior laryngeal nerve, and piercing the thyro-hyoid mem- brane. Before entering the larynx this branch is covered by the thyro-hyoid muscle. On reaching the interior of the larynx, it ramifies in the small muscles, the glands, and the mucous membrane of that organ. {d) The crico-thyroid, a small branch, to be noticed on account of its position rather than its size. It crosses the membrane connecting the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and communicates with a similar branch from the other side : hence it may be a source of haemorrhage in the operation of laryngotomy. Varieties—Size.—The superior thyroid artery is frequently much larger, and, on the other hand, it may be smaller than usual. In either case the deviation from the accustomed size is accompanied by an opposite alteration in other thyroid arteries. It has been seen extremely small, ending in branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle and the larynx. (See the observations on the inferior thyroid artery.) Origin.—The superior thyroid is often transferred to the upper part of the common carotid artery ; and it has been seen conjoined with the lingual branch, or with that and the facial branch of the external carotid. There are sometimes two superior thyroid arteries. Branches.—The hyoid branch is frequently very small, or absent. The laryn- geal branch arises not unfrequently from the external carotid artery, and like- wise, but rarely, from the common carotid. Examples have occurred of this branch being of very large size, and terminating in the thyroid body. The laryngeal artery occasionally enters the larynx through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage, aud it has likewise been observed to pass inwards below the cartilage. 2. Lingual Artery.—The lingual artery arises from the inner side of the external carotid, between the origins of the superior thyroid t and facial arteries. Curving upwards and inwards, it reaches the upper ■ margin of the hyoid bone, behind the tip of its great cornu ; it then passes forwards under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle, resting at first 1 on the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and afterwards on the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, in contact with which it ascends almost per- il pendicularly to reach the under surface of the tongue, and there makes its final turn forwards to the till of that organ, receiving the name of ranine artery. At the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle, the hypoglossal nerve crosses the artery, and passes forwards on a lower level, superficial to the muscle. Branch.es. (a) The hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the hyoid one, and supplies the contiguous muscles and skin.