331 PERINEAL MUSCLES IN THE FEMALE. of the urethra : these are continuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate, and are referred to in the description of that body, (bee Structure of the Prostate.) Fig. 230.—Posterior View op thePcbes WITH PART OF THE BLADDER AND Urethra attached (from Santorini). A 3, body ; 2, rami of the pubes; 3,_ obturator internus muscle ; 5, portion of the fundus and neck of the bladder laid open ; 6, the prostate gland ; 7, trans- verse fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle, passing above the urethra; 8, similar fibres passing beneath that canal. Varieties.—A pulo-nrethral muscle avas described by James Wilson (Medico- Cliirurgical Trans., London, vol. i. p. 170), and is sometimes referred to as Wilson’s muscle, but lias not been re- cognised as a separate muscle by suc- ceeding anatomists. An unstriped pubo-vesical band lias been described, descending from the back of the symphysis to the neck of the bladder (Luschka). Nerves.—The muscles of the urethra and penis are supplied by the inferior hamiorrhoidal branch of the pudic nerve ; the levator and sphincter ani by the | inferior hcemonhoidal and by the fourth and fifth sacral and by the coccygeal nerves ; and the coccygeus muscle by the three last-named nerves. Actions.—The sphincters of the anus cause by their contraction occlusion of , ■'.! that aperture. The contraction of the external is usually maintained involun- tarily, though it may be rendered firmer by an act of the will; that of the internal is wholly involuntary. The levator ani and cocci/gevs elevate the lower part of the rectum and invert its anal border, after the protrusion and eversion which accompany defecation. The transrersi acting together draw backwards and fix the central point of the perinaeum, thus assisting to give a base of support to the ejaculator muscle. The erector penis serves to compress the crus penis and thus assist in producing or at least in maintaining the erection of the penis. The ejaculator urines compresses the bulb and the adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum of the urethra, so as to eject forcibly any fluid lodged in the canal. It comes into action near the end of the process of micturition, when its con- traction is mainly a voluntary act, and in the emission of the semen when it is involuntary. The constrictor urethra and the circular involuntary muscles diminish the calibre of the urethra and expel its contents ; their fibres contract near the end of micturition, so as to assist the ejaculator in clearing the canal. In the female. — In the female the anterior fibres of the levator ani embrace the vagina as they do the prostate in the male. I he transversus perinsei and the sphincter ani are arranged nearly m the same manner as in the male. I lie erector clitoridis differs from the erector penis of the male by its smaller size alone. The sphincter vaginae is attached behind to the central point of m^penffiLira, in common with the sphincter ani and transversus perinaei i , c ^ 5 i ^3res °Pen out to surround the vaginal orifice and vesti- , c osely embracing on the outer side the two bulbs of the vesti-