ERECTORES SRIXiE. COMPLEXUS. 301 continuation of the longissimus dorsi to the head, arises in close con- nection with the transversalis cervicis from the upper dorsal transverse , processes, and also from behind the articular processes of the three or four lowest cervical vertebras, and, forming a thin flat muscle, passes to i be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, under * cover of the splenius and sterno-mastoid muscles. It is the only muscle f] which lies between the splenius and complexus, and the only portion of 3 the erector spinas concealed by the former. g. The spinalis dorsi is a long narrow muscle placed at the inner | side of the longissimus dorsi, and closely connected with it. It forms : the innermost column of the erector spinas. It arises by several | tendons from the spines of the first two lumbar, and the two lowest dorsal vertebras, and is inserted into from four to eight of the higher dorsal spines. It adheres closely to the semispinalis muscle upon which | it lies. Actions:—The splenii and trachelo-mastoid muscles of both sides acting j together draw backwards the head and upper cervical vertebral : when the jj muscles of one side alone act, the extension is accompanied by lateral flexion and rotation, especially of the head on the axis. When the greater part of the erector muscles of the spine are in action on both * sides, they bend backwards the vertebral column and trunk ; and these muscles ■ co-operate powerfully in almost every great muscular effort of the body or limbs. Their power to straighten the back from the bent condition, as measured by the muscular dynamometer, varies in adults of medium strength from 200 lbs. to f 400 lbs. By the action of the erector muscles of one side a certain amount of : lateral flexion and of rotation, which is greatest in the chest, accompanies the o extension. A certain amount of extension or erection of the spine, as previously > stated, accompanies inspiration ; but if the spine be fixed, some of the erector muscles may also, by their costal attachments, depress the ribs, and thus assist in .1 expiration. J Complexes and transverso-spinales.—The muscles of the com- plicated group comprising the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus and t rotatores spin®, present the feature in common of ascending with an ] inward inclination, and are thus distinguished from those last described. : The most superficial, the complexus, not usually included in this 'group, but obviously resembling the others, has the longest and most vertical fibres, but is the shortest in its whole extent, being limited to the upper dorsal and the cervical region ; the muscle beneath it, the semispinalis, ; occupies the greater part of both these regions : while the multifidus j spin®, extending from the sacrum to the axis, has the shortest and most oblique fibres. The complexus muscle arises by tendinous points from the trans- verse processes of the seven highest dorsal and the lowest cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of four and sometimes five other cervical vertebrae, together with the capsular ligament uniting them ; and it is inserted into the large internal impression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. It is narrower above than below, and its inner margin in the neck is in contact with the liga- mentum nuchas. Above its middle the muscle is partly intersected by a tendon. This portion of the muscle is often described separately, ' under the name of biventer cervicis : its fibres are also frequently con- 1 nected by a tendinous slip with one or two of the spinous processes belonging to the last cervical or first dorsal vertebrae.