BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 90 sided, and presents a slight curve with the convexity backwards, but near the lower extremity it is slender, straight and cylindrical. The anterior surface is grooved in the upper half, where the flexor profundus muscle takes origin ; and at its lower end has an oblique line to which the pronator quadratus is attached. Placed near the upper third is a foramen for vessels, directed upwards into the medullary cavity. The internal surface is smooth, and somewhat depressed superiorly on the side of the olecranon, where it gives attachment to the flexor profundus muscle, while inferiorlv it is subcutaneous. The posterior surface, more uneven, looks outwards and backwards ; an oblique ridge descending from behind the small sigmoid cavity, limits superiorly a triangular area, which extends over the outer side of the olecranon and gives attachment to the anconeus muscle ; immediately below the small sigmoid cavity is a short space looking directly outwards, to which the supinator brevis is attached : while the remaining and largest part of this surface is slightly impressed by the extensor muscles. Of the three margins, the anterior and posterior are rounded, and for the most part smooth ; the external is sharp, and gives attachment to the inter- osseous ligament. The inferior extremity presents a rounded articular head ; and on the internal aspect of the head a short cylindrical projection, the stijloid process, which descends in a line with the inner and posterior surface of the shaft, and gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist joint. The head presents two aspects, of which one, flattened and circular in form, looks towards the wrist joint; whilst the other, narrow and cylindrical, looks outwards, and is received into the semi- lunar cavity in the contiguous border of the radius. The head and the styloid process are separated posteriorly by a groove, which is traversed by the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris; and interiorly by a de- pression, into which the triangular fibro-cartilage which intervenes between the ulna and the carpus is inserted. THE CARPUS. The carpus is composed of eight short bones, which are disposed in Fig. 77.—Semi-diagrammatic View op the Right Carpus and Part of the Metacarpal Bones, from before, the Carpal Bones being slightly separated TO SHOW THE GENERAL MODE OF TnEIR CONNECTION WITH EACH OTHER. (A. T.) § 1, scaphoid bone ; 2, semilunar, pre- senting, as often occurs, a small surface of articulation with the unciform hone; 3, cuneiform ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium, the figure is placed upon the ridge, to the in- side of which is the groove for the tendon of flexor carpi radialis ; 6, trapezoid ; 7, os magnum, the figure is placed on the tuberosity ; 8, unciform, the figure is placed on the unciform process. The articulation of the os magnum with the fourth metacarpal lone is represented somewhat too large. Fig. 77. two ranges, four in each range. Enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, the bones which constitute the first or superior range are