Fig. 319. 501 BRANCHES OF THE BORTAL VEIN. Tributaries—The principal branches which by their union contri- bute to form the vena portae are the coronary vein of the stomach, the superior mesenteric, and the splenic veins. The cystic vein is also sometimes a lateral tributary of the portal vein, but more frequently proceeds from its right branch. Fig. 319.—View op the Prin- cipal Branches op the Vena Porta. J 1, lower surface of tlic right lohe of the liver; 2, stomach ; 3, spleen ; 4, pancreas; 5, duodenum ; 6, ascending colon ; 7, small intes- tines ; 8, descending colon ; a, vena port® dividing in the transverse fissure of the liver ; b, splenic vein ; c, right gastro-epiploic ; cl, inferior mesenteric ; e, superior mesenteric vein ; f, superior mesenteric ar- tery. The coronary vein of the stomach lies parallel with the artery of the same name. Its size is inconsiderable, and its direction transverse from the cardiac to the py- loric end of the stomach along the small curvature. On reaching the latter point it turns downwards, and opens into the trunk of the vena port®. The splenic vein, a vessel of very considerable size, returns the blood not only from the spleen, but also from the pancreas, the duo- denum, the greater part of the stomach and omentum, the descending colon, and part of the rectum. It commences by five or six branches, which issue separately from the fissure of the spleen, and soon join to form a single vessel. It is directed from left to right beneath the pancreas, in company with the splenic artery, below which it is placed. On reaching the front of the spine it joins the superior mesenteric vein, nearly at a right angle. It receives gastric branches (vasa brevia) from the left extremity of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, some pancreatic and duodenal branches, and also the inferior mesenteric vein. The superior mesenteric vein lies to the right side, and some- what in front of the artery of the same name. The distribution of its branches corresponds with that of the superior mesenteric artery, and it returns the blood from the several parts supplied by that vessel, viz., from the small intestine, and from the ascending and transverse parts of the colon. The trunk, formed by the union of its several branches, inclines upwards and to the right side, passing in front of the duodenum