OSSIFICATION OF TIIE UPPER JAW. 71 tion of the body either results from the union of these, or is an independent growth. The presphenoid is united to the body of the postsphenoid from the seventh to the eighth month. The line of union is indicated for some time by a hole filled with cartilage, round above, and opening interiorly into a wide notch, which is recognisable for several years after birth. The body of the presphenoid is for a year or two broad and rounded interiorly, but becomes gradually narrower and more prominent: it is separated at first by a layer of fibro-cartilage from the sphenoidal spongy hones. The sphenoidal spongy hones seldom appear till after birth, and are united to the body at the age of puberty. Each is in early life a hollow pyramid formed by the union of three separate laminae, viz., an inferior, an external, and a superior : the inferior lamina forms the greater part of what can be distinguished in the adult; the external is that to which the orbital portion belongs ; while the superior lamina, forming the inner wall and roof of the original sphenoidal sinus, becomes, as the sinus expands, partly absorbed and partly united to the attenuated body of the pre-sphenoid, which is ultimately reduced to the thin septum sphenoidale and the rostrum. In the ethmoid bone ossification commences in the fourth or fifth month, by the appearance of a nucleus in the orbital plates of the lateral masses gradually extending into the turbinated bones. During the first year the vertical and cribriform plates are ossified from a single nucleus, which, spreading outwards, unites with the lateral masses about the beginning of the second year. The ethmoidal cells are not formed till the fourth or fifth year. The superior maxillary commences to ossify immediately after the lower maxilla and the clavicle from several nuclei, the earliest of which appears in the Fig. 61. c Fig. 61.—Different views of the Superior Maxillary Bone of a Fetus of four or five months (R. Quain). A, external surface; a fissure, 1, is seen extending through the orbit into the infra- orbital foramen. B, the internal surface ; the incisor fissure, 2, extends from the foramen upwards through the horizontal plate and some way into the nasal process. C, the bone from below, showing the imperfect alveoli and the incisor fissure, 2' 1 which crosses the palatine plate, between the second and third alveolus, and passes through the outer part of the bone. alveolar arch about the sixth or seventh week. Its early growth has not yet been sufficiently studied. Beclard (Meckel’s Archiv, vi. p. 432) states that it consists at first of five pieces, viz. : 1, an alveolar arch ; 2, a palatal part ; 3. an orbital and malar ; 4, a nasal and facial ; 5, an incisor part. This, however, does not appear to be a constant arrangement. By the end of the third month these pieces have united together ; at the same time two ridges are seen prolonged downwards from the lower surface of the alveolar arch, forming the dental groove. Before birth this groove is divided into alveoli by partitions which arise from its floor. The antrum begins as a shallow depression, formed before birth on the inner surface of the bone. This deepens and extends outwards, gradually separating the orbital and palate portions of the bone, which at birth are very close together. In all young subjects, and sometimes even in the adult, there is a fissure -lie ijicisor Jissure—passing outwards from the incisor foramen to the alveolar