SEMI AT US MAGNUS MUSCLE. thus:—a, those from the first and second digitations form a thick bundle which terminates on the flat area in front of the upper angle of the scapula ; I), those of the third and fourth i digitations, but es- i pecially the first of these, which is the inferior digitation of the second rib, spread out into a triangular layer, the thinnest part of the muscle, and are attached along the line in front of the base of the scapula, ! extending from the place of insertion of the preceding part nearly to the lower angle of the bone ; c, the remaining five or six digita- i tions converge in the form of a fan, and terminate posteriorly in a thick mass, which is attached to the flat surface in front of the lower ; angle of the scapula. Fig. 168.—Lateral View of the Trunk, show- ing the Serratus Mag- nus Muscle. (A. T.) | a, coracoid process of the scapula; b, glenoid cavity ; c, lower angle ; d, first dorsal vertebra ; I, VI, XII, the first, sixth, and twelfth ribs ; 1, upper portion of the serratus magnus attached to the first and second ribs ; 2, second or middle portion attached chiefly to the third rib ; 3, lower or fan- I shaped portion attached to the ribs from the fourth to the ninth ; 4, external i intercostal muscle ; 5, cos- ; tal origins of the transver- i salis abdominis ; +, sca- ! pular extremities of the levator scapulas and omo- hyoid muscles. Fig. 168. Relations.—By its deep surface, the serratus magnus rests on the upper ribs, the intercostal muscles, and part of the serratus posticus superior. Its outer surface is in contact posteriorly with the subscapular and latissimus dorsi muscles, and forms anteriorly the internal wall of the axilla, being subcutaneous in the lower part of its extent. Varieties.—Not unfrequently the lowest slip of the muscle extends to the tenth rib : in other instances the number of costal slips is diminished, occasionally by the suppression of the first, but oftener by the absence of some of the lower digitations, so that the muscle does not pass lower than the seventh rib. The muscle has been observed divided into three parts : sometimes the middle part is absent; and in various instances the serratus has been observed united partially with the levator scapul®, the external intercostals, or the external oblique. With the levator scapula! it forms one muscle in many mammals. Nerves.—The nerves which supply the anterior muscles passing from the trunk to the upper limb are all derived from parts of the brachial plexus. The nerve of the subclavius is a small twig from a loop between the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The large nerve of the serratus magnus, called posterior thoracic, proceeds from the same nerves and pierces the middle scalene muscle. The nerves of the pectoral muscles, named anterior thoracic, are in two