G28 TILE CRANIAL NERVES. in the form of a flattened band, which is attached by its anterior surface to the peduncle ; after this, becoming more nearly cylindrical, it adheres to the tuber tinereum, from which, and from the lamina cinerea, it is said to receive an accession of fibres, and thus reaches the optic com- missure. Deep origin.—The fibres may be traced into the substance of the optic thalamus and the corpora geniculata, and to the anterior of the corpora quadrigemina. The fibres which come from the anterior corpus quadrigeminum arise from the cells of that body. Those connected with the internal and external corpus geniculatum are in part connected with the cells of those bodies, in part pass through them to reach the optic thalamus. The fibres which pass into the thalamus beneath the inner corpus geniculatum, between it and the crus (and have been described as a middle root of the tract), arise, according to Meynert, from the cells of the lower stratum of the thalamus. The fibres which arise in the base are derived from the lamina cinerea and also from a “ basal optic ganglion,” which lies on the outer side of the tuber cine- reum, and sends fibres to the optic nerve of the same side. Course and distribution.—In the commissure, or chicisma, the nerve fibres of the two sides undergo a partial decussation. The outer fibres of each tract continue onwards to the eye of the same side: the inner fibres cross over to the opposite side ; and fibres have been de- scribed as running from one optic tract to the other along the posterior part of the commissure, while others pass between the two optic nerves in its anterior part (Mayo). The outer fibres of each tract which do not decussate are much less numerous than those which cross to the opposite side. The decussating fibres are arranged in alternate layers. The view before stated is that most commonly given as to the structure of the commissure ; hut it is right to state that its accuracy has been called in question by several observers who hold, both on anatomical and physiological grounds, that all the fibres from one tract cross into the optic nerve of the opposite side. Tire point appears to be still undecided. In many fishes the optic nerves do not unite in a commissure but merely cross, each to the side opposite to that tof its origin. (See Waller, Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. viii, Biesiadecki, Wien. Sitzimgsb. 1861, p. 86, and Michel, Arcliiv fin- Ophthalm. 1873, p. 59.). In front of the commissure, the nerve diverges from its fellow and acquires greater firmness. It enters the foramen opticum, by which it reaches the orbit. Within the orbit it forms a cylindrical trunk, thick and strong, with a uniform surface. On dissection it is seen to consist of a number of separate bundles of nerve fibres, imbedded in tough fibrous tissue pro- longed from the dura mater, and perforated in the centre by the small arteria centralis retinae, which passes into it soon after it enters the orbit. It is surrounded by the recti muscles, and, entering the eyeball posteriorly a little to the inside of its middle, it pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats, and expands in the retina.—(See the Anatomy of the Eye.) THIRD PAIR OF NERVES. This nerve, the common motor nerve of the eyeball (motorius oculi), gives branches to all the muscles of the orbit, with the exception of the superior oblique and external rectus.