511 THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Internal branches.—These consist of the naso-palatine, and the upper and interior nasal, which ramify in the lining membrane of the nasal fosste and adjoining sinuses. The upper nasal are very small branches, and enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. Some are prolonged to the upper and posterior part of the septum, and the remainder ramify in the membrane covering- the upper two spongy bones, and in that lining the posterior ethmoid cells. A. branch, as has been already stated, forms a connection in the wall of the maxillary sinus, above the eye-tooth, with the anterior dental nerve. The naso-palatine nerve, nerve of Cotunnius (Scarpa), long and slender, leaves the inner side of the ganglion with the preceding branches, and after crossing the roof of the nasal fossa is directed downwards and forwards on the septum nasi towards the anterior palatine canal, situated between the periosteum and the pituitary membrane. The nerves of opposite sides descend to the palate through the mesial subdivisions of the canal, called the foramina of Scarpa, the nerve of the right side usually behind that of the left. In the lower common foramen the two naso-palatine nerves are connected with each other in a fine plexus; and they end in several filaments, which are distributed to the papillae behind the incisor teeth, and commimicate with the great* palatine nerve. In its course along the septum, small filaments are furnished from the naso-palatine nerve to the pituitary membrane. (See fig. 402. This nerve was discovered inde- pendently by John Hunter and Cotunnius ; see Hunter’s “ Observations on certain parts of the Animal Economy; ” and Scarpa, “ Annotationes Anatomica3,” lib. ii.) Posterior branches.—The branches directed backwards from the spheno-palatine ganglion are the Yidian and pharyngeal nerves. The Vidian nerve arises from the back part of the ganglion, which seems to Fig. 339. Fig. 339.—Nerves of the Nose and of the Spheno-Palatine Ganglion from the Inner Side (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). § 1, network of tlie branches of the olfactory nerve descending upon the membrane covering the superior and middle turbinated bones ; 2, external twig of the ethmoidal branch of the nasal nerve ; 3, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 4, ramification of the anterior division of the palatine nerves ; 5, posterior, and 6, middle divisions of the palatine nerves ; 7, branch to the membrane on the lower turbinated bone ; 8, branch to the superior and middle turbinated bones ; 9, naso-palatine branch to the septum cut short • 10, Vidian nerve ; 11, its great superficial petrosal branch ; 12, its carotid branch • 13' the sympathetic nerves ascending on the internal carotid artery.