MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 221 brevis and the four deeper extensor muscles receive branches from the interosseous nerve. MUSCLES OP THE HAND. Besides the tendons of the long muscles and the lumbricales already described, there are placed in the hand one superficial muscle called palmaris brevis, the short muscles of the thumb and little finger, and the interossei muscles. Fig. 180.—Muscles and Tendons of the Palmar Aspect of the Hand. \ Portions of the tendons of the superficial flexor have been cut away to show those of the deep flexor and the lumbricales. 1, ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis, cut short; 2, tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, inserted into the pisiform bone ; 3, anterior annular ligament of the carpus ; 4, abductor pollicis ; 5, opponens pollicis ; 6, 6, flexor brevis ; 7, adductor pollicis ; 8, abductor minimi digiti ; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 10, lum- bricales, passing to their insertion on the radial side of the four fingers. The palmaris brevis is a thin flat subcutaneous muscle, which arises from the inner margin of the palmar fascia and annular ligament ; its fibres proceed transversely inwards, and are inserted into the skin along the inner border of the palm. Relations.—The palmaris brevis crosses the muscles of the little finger and covers the ulnar artery and nerve. It is subject to considerable variation in its breadth and thickness, consisting sometimes of only a few scattered fibres. Fig. 181.—Deep Muscles of the Palm of the Hand, a D The abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, together with the anterior annular ligament and the long flexor tendons in the Palm have been removed; in the fore-finger the tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors remain; in the other fingers the ten- ions of the superficial flexor have been removed. 1, pronator quadratus muscle; 2, opponens pollicis; 3, flexor brevis pollicis; 4, adductor pollicis; 5, opponens minimi digiti; 6, unciform bone; 7, 8, interosseous muscles. Fig. 181. emhwue or bHlT/th^th^'r1116 fleshy ™aSS which forms the thenar Thi bal1 of the thumb> consists of four muscles. Bcial tor pol^cis m,uscle (abductor brevis pollicis,-Alb.), super- tlmos t^i™ ftT thG annular KSwaent and from the ridge if 11 m’ ancl proceeding outwards and forwards, is inserted