ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 432 these two branches passes upwards along the colon, and inosculates Avith the descending branch of the middle colic ; whilst the other descends towards the sigmoid flexure, and anastomoses with the sigmoid artery. (b) The sigmoid artery runs obliquely downwards to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, where it divides into branches ; some of which incline upwards and form arches with the preceding vessel, while others turn downwards to the rectum and anastomose with the following- branch. Instead of a single sigmoid artery, two or three branches are sometimes present. {(') The superior hcemorrhoidal artery, the continuation of the inferior mesenteric, passes downwards over the common iliac artery and vein into the pelvis behind the rectum, lying at first in the meso-rectum, and then divides into two branches which extend one on each side of the intestine toward the lower end. About five inches from the anus these subdivide into branches, about a line in diameter, which pierce the muscular coat two inches lower down. In the intestine, these arteries, about seven in number, and placed at regular distances from each other, descend between the mucous and muscular coats to the end of the gut, where they communicate in loops opposite the internal sphincter, and end by anastomosing with the middle and inferior hmmorrhoidal arteries. Varieties.—Absence of this artery has been noted, its branches being given off by the superior mesenteric. It has also been found supplying accessory branches to the liver and kidneys. Anastomoses on the intestinal tube.—The arteries distributed to the alimentary canal communicate freely with each other over the whole length of that tube. The arteries of the great intestine derived from the two mesenteric arteries, form a range of vascular arches along the colon and rectum, at the lower end of which they anastomose with the middle and inferior hasmorrhoidal arteries, given from the internal iliac and pudic arteries. The branches from the left side of the supeiior mesenteric form another series of arches along the small intestine, which is connected with the former by the ileo-colic artery. Farther, a branch of the superior mesenteric joins upon the duodenum with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. The latter, at its commencement, is in a manner continuous with the pyloric artery; and so likewise, through the coronary artery of the stomach and its ascending branches, a similar connection is formed with the oesophageal arteries, even up to the pharynx. The suprarenal or capsular arteries are two very small vessels which arise from the aorta on a level with the superior mesenteric artery, and incline obliquely outwards upon the crura of the diaphragm to reach the suprarenal capsules, to which bodies they are distributed, anasto- mosing at the same time with the upper and lower capsular branches derived respectively from the phrenic and the renal arteries. In the foetus these arteries are of larger size. Varieties.—This middle suprarenal artery is often very small, its place being supplied by the superior and inferior suprarenals. The middle suprarenal some- times gives off the spermatic artery. This occurs usually on the left, but it also occurs, though rarely, on the right side (Henle). The renal or eniulgent arteries, of large diameter in proportion to the size of the organs which they supply, arise from the sides of the