PERINEAL MUSCLES IN THE MALE. 329 rectum The under or perineal surface, invested by the thin anal fascia, is covered by the fat which occupies the ischio-rectal fossa. The posterior border is continuous with the coccygeus. Fig. 229. — Left half of the Male Pelvis, to show the Levator Ani and Cocovoei's Muscles (after Cloquet). a, the promontory of the sacrum ; l), the crest of the pubis ; c, the last bone of the coccyx ; d, the spine of the ischium ; e, the symphysis pubis ; /, a small portion of the anal jiart of the rectum ; <j, half the prostate gland; h, half the bulb and a portion of the penis ; 1, upper part of the obturator internus muscle exposed by removing from within it the pelvic fascia ; 2, coccygeus muscle, and above it and between it and d, the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; 3, inner surface of the levator ani; the white line extending between d and e, shows the place of its origin from the fascia of the pelvis ; below is shown the descent of the fibres to the anus, and to the portions of the perinteum before and behind it. Fig. 229. The coccygeus or levator coccygei muscle is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres, forming a thin, flat, and triangular sheet, which arises by its apex from the spine of the ischium and the lesser sciatic ligament, and is attached along its base to the border of the coccyx and the lower part of the sacrum. The fibres of this muscle diverge as they approach the middle line, while those of the levator ani rather converge as they descend. Relations.—The internal or pelvic surface of this muscle assists in supporting the rectum : its external or under surface rests on the front of the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and on the gluteus maximus muscle. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles together have been named somewhat appropriately by Meyer, the pelvic diaphragm. Varieties.—The coccygeus is sometimes inserted into the side of the sacrum instead of the coccyx. A few muscular fibres have been found extending from the lower part of the sacrum to the coccyx, both in front and behind. The anterior slip is decribed by Von Behr and others as e nr cat or. and the posterior as extensor coccygis. (See Macalister, Muse. Anomalies, p. G(J.) b. Genito-urinary Muscles.—Covered by the special fascia of the perinamm are three muscles, placed superficially—the superficial trans- verse, the ischio-cavernosus, and the bulbo-cavernosus ; while, situated more deeply between the superficial and deep layers of the subpubic lascia, are the deep transverse muscle and the constrictor of the urethra, sometimes described as one muscle under the name of compressor of the urethra. The transversus perinaei muscle arises from the inner surface of the pubic arch, near the ischial tuberosity, and is directed obliquely forwards and inwards to unite with the muscle of the opposite side, as well as with the sphincter ani and bulbo-cavernosus at the central point ol the perinaeum. It lies immediately in front of the line where the penneal dips back to join the subpubic fascia.