ARTERIES OF TIIE UPPER LIMB. 40G Fig. 266. the position of( one or Both the vessels may he subject to very considerable variation in different instances; and in some of these, while one of the vessels is near the usual position, the other may be at some distance, as for example when it is bound down to the inner condylar line of the humerus. Fig. 266.—Deep Anterior View of the Ar- teries of tub Arm, Fore-arm, and Hand % (from Tiedemann). \ The biceps brachii, the pronator teres and mus- cle.s rising from the inner condyle, the supinator J longus, the lower part of the flexor longus pollicis j and flexor profundus digitorum, the anterior an- nular ligament of the carpus and the muscles of the ball of the thumb, have been removed ; n, 1 pronator quadratus muscle ; 1, lower part of the 1 axillary artery continued into the brachial; 2, j superior profunda branch ; 3, inferior profunda ; j 4, anastomotic; 5, upper part of the radial j artery and radial recurrent; 5', lower part of the j radial artery giving off the superficialis voice ] branch ; 5", the radial artery emerging from be- 1 tween the heads of the abductor indicis muscle ; 6, 6, the upper part of the ulnar artery with the ] anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent branches ; 6', the ulnar artery approaching the wrist and ’ descending into the superficial palmar arch which j i i has been cut short ; 6", the deep branch of the ulnar artery uniting with the deep palmar arch; 7 (marked only on one), three interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch joining the palmar I digital arteries 8, 8, 8, which have been cut away from their origin from the superficial arch to near their division into the collateral digital arteries ; the ulnar collateral of the little finger is represented as rising in this instance from the deep ulnar artery ; 9, placed between the prin- ceps pollicis and radialis indicis branches of the radial artery ; 10, loiver part of the anterior interosseous artery passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 11, anastomosis of the an- terior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries with recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch. At the bend of the arm the brachial artery is exposed to the risk of injury from the operation of venesection, for which the median basil ic vein is most commonly selected. This vein lies often exactly in front of the artery, the semilunar fascia being stretched between them. Instances are on record in which the artery has been wounded by the lancet transfixing the vein and fascia, and a communication has thus been established be- tween the vein and artery. On this account the incision into the vein must be made with due care, and indeed the median cephalic, if of sufficient size, may be selected f® venesection.