427 THE HEPATIC ARTERY. transverse fissure ; 6, gastro-duodenal artery; 6', its continuation as the right gastro- epiploic ; 7, on the left crus [of the diaphragm, the splenic artery ; S, its left gastro- epiploic branch proceeding round the great curvature of the stomach to communicate with the right gastro-epiploic artery; both of these vessels are seen giving long epiploic as well as gastric branches. Tire ftiipcrwr pancreatico-duodenal branch, descends along the inner margin of the duodenum, between it and the pancreas, and, after furnishing several branches to both these organs, anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal from the superior mesenteric artery. (c) The cystic artery, given off by the right hepatic when crossing behind the cystic duct, turns upwards and forwards upon the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two smaller branches, of which one ramifies between the coats on the depending surface, the other between the bladder and the liver. Varieties.—The hepatic artery sometimes arises from the superior mesenteric artery, or from the aorta itself. Accessory hepatic arteries are often met with, Fig. 277. Fig. 277. Tue Artekies of the Stomach, Duodenum, Pancreas, and Spleen (from Tiedemann). j . ,The st<?mach tfyer are turned upwards so as to show their lower surface. The R™,18 divided at its commencement, a, lower surface of the right lobe of the liver ; e ,? e ’ cardiac orifice of the stomach ; d, pylorus; e, first part, /, second or cescen mg part, and //, third or lower part of fthe duodenum ; h, commencement of the lm i*nlnp‘1 (rmer£1 no from behind the superior mesenteric artery ; i, the head, and k, the ie pancreas ; I, the spleen ; 1, 1, right and left inferior phrenic arteries passing „ i- ®.ao[ uP°a the crura of the diaphragm; 2, placed on the aorta close to the „v„x- . s ’ coronary artery ; 4, common hepatic ; 4', its right branch ; 4", of tliA UC. I O; gastro-duodenal giving the inferior pyloric ; 5, on the great curvature snlptii raC!’ toe right gastro-epiploic ; 6, superior pancreatico-duodenal ; 7, common pninloip’ovfL?10^^-8^61?1? ’ oue vasa Previa to the stomach ; 8, 8, left gastro- tlip cmiPiMPP ™ uniting with the right on the great curvature of the stomach ; 9, trunk of mesenteric esentenc artery, giving off the inferior pancreatico-duodenal ; 10, inferior