47G VEINS OP THE HEAD AND NECK. forehead, the frontal vein receives) a branch from the eyebrow, and some, of smaller size, from the nose and upper eyelid. W The supra-orhital vein (v. supercilii) runs inwards in the direction of the eyebrow, covered by the occipito-frontalis muscle. Its branches are con- nected externally with those of the external palpebral and superficial temporal veins : in its course it receives branches from the contiguous muscles and in- tegument, and at the inner angle of the orbit inclines downwards to terminate in the frontal vein. ('0 The angular vein, formed by the junction of the supra-orbital and frontal veins, is perceptible beneath the skin as it runs obliquely downwards and outwards near the inner margin of the orbit, resting against the side of the nose at its root. This vessel receives on the inner side the naml veins, which pass upwards obliquely to join it from the side and ridge of the nose; whilst some small superior palpebral veins open into it from the opposite direction. On a level with the lower margin of the orbit it becomes continuous with the facial vein. (d) The inferior palpebral veins, two or three in number, are derived from the lower eyelid, from the outer side of the orbit, and from the cheek. They pass in a direction obliquely inwards above the zygomatic muscle, and then turn beneath it previously to their termination. (<?) Communieating branches from the pterygoid plexus (deep facial, anterior internal maxillary) and also some branches proceeding from the orbit, furnished by the infra-orbital of the internal maxillary vein, join the facial on a level with the angle of the mouth. (/) Labial, buccal, masseteric and mental branches join the facial below the angle of the mouth. (;/) The ranine vein is a small vessel which lies along the under surface of the tongue, close to the framum linguae, in apposition with the artery of the same name : its course is backwards and outwards, between the mylo-hyoid and hyo- glossus muscles, to open into the facial vein, or sometimes into the lingual. (/<■) The submental vein, larger than the preceding, commences below the chin: it receives branches from the submaxillary gland, and from the mylo-hyoid muscle, and, keeping close under cover of the margin of the jaw-bone, joins the facial vein ; but in some instances it enters the lingual or superior thyroid vein. (/') Submaxillarjj branches from the gland join the facial vein either separately or united into one trunk. ( j) The palatine vein returns the blood from the plexus surrounding the tonsil and from the soft palate ; it passes downwards, deeply seated by the side of the pharynx, to join one of the preceding veins, or terminate in the facial separately. Tlie temporal vein, a vessel of considerable size, descends in front of the external auditory tube, reaching from the zygoma, upon which it rests, to the angle of the jaw. It results from the union of branches which are spread out upon the side of the head, some superficially, and others deeply seated. The superficial brandies commence upon the arch of the skull, where they communicate with the ramifications of the frontal and occipital veins, as well as with those of the corre- sponding vein of the opposite side. Descending on the surface of the temporal fascia, they converge ; those from the fore part inclining a little backwards, while the posterior branches run forwards over the ear ; and the two sets joining together above the zygoma form the trunk of the temporal vein. The deeper branches, arising in the sub- stance of the temporal muscle, unite to form a vein ot some size, called the middle temporal, to distinguish it from branches still more deeply placed and which open into the internal maxillary vein. The middle temporal vein falls into the common temporal trunk at its commence- ment above the zygoma. The temporal vein gradually sinks into the