OSSIFICATION OF THE TEMPORAL BONE. 69 the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bones. The fontanelles are gradually Fig. 58.—Skull op a Child at Birth, seen Fig. 58. FROM ABOVE (from Leishman). ^ a, superior fontanelle ; p, posterior fontanelle ; b, b, parietal eminences; for the lateral fontanelles, see fig. 65, p. 77. filled up by the extension of ossification into the membranes which occupy them from neighbouring bones, thus completing the angles of the bones and forming the sutures. The closure, especially of the posterior and lateral, is further assisted by the frequent development of Wormian bones in these situa- tions. All traces of these unossified spaces disappear before the age of four years. The temporal bone in respect of its state of ossification in the later stages of foetal life, consists of three pieces, the squamo-zygomatic, petro-mastoid, and tympanic. The squamo-zygomatic is ossified from a single nucleus, which appeai-s in the lower part of the squamosal about the seventh or eighth Fig. 59.—Separate Parts of the Temporal Bone of A Child at Birth (R. Quain). a, squamo-zygomatic; b, the tympanic bone, forming an imperfect ring, open superiorly ; c, the petro-mastoid part ; c being placed on the mastoid part : part of the cavity shown in shade is the tympanum. week. From this point ossification extends upwards into the squamosal, and outwards into the zygoma. During the third month an osseous nucleus appears in the lower part of the external membranous wall of the tympanum, and extends upwards as a slender arch, forming the tympanic ring, an imperfect circle, open superiorly, and which encloses the tympanic membrane. Before birth the extremities of this ring become united with the squamo-zygomatic. Petro-mastoid or periotic. The ossification of this part of the temporal bone does not begin so soon as that of the other parts. It is only towards the end of the fifth month and in the course of the sixth (according to Kolliker and Huxley) that the bony parts of the internal ear begin to appear in the cartilage which precedes them. These parts arise, at least in the case of the labyrinth, from numerous minute bony deposits; some, however, soon coalescing. The first osseous nuclei appear at the end of the fifth month on the anterior surface of the petro-mastoid over the cochlea, and shortly afterwards one or two nuclei appear on the posterior surface in connection with the formation of the semi- circular canals. These different nuclei soon unite, and ossification extends out- wards into the mastoid portion. According to Huxley the principal ossific centres come to be disposed so as to form three portions, which may be distinguished by the following names applied to them respectively by him, viz.: 1, Prootic, including most of the labyrinth and upper part of the petrous bone, together with part of the mastoid ; 2, Opi.static, comprehending mainly the lower part of the petrous bone, with the fenestra rotunda and half of the fenestra ovalis; and 3, Epiotic, corresponding to the lower part of the mastoid. At birth the petro-mastoid is separated from the squamosal by a thin plate of intervening cartilage, bony union taking place during the first year ; the mastoid portion also is quite flat, the glenoid fossa shallow, the articular eminence scarcely