THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES AND GANGLIA. G28 The great prevertebral plexuses comprise three large aggrega- tions of nerves, or nerves and ganglia situated in front of the spine, and occupying respectively the thorax, the abdomen, and the pelvis. They are single and median, and arc named respectively the cardiac, the solar, and the hypogastric plexus. These plexuses receive branches from both the gangliated cords above noticed, and they constitute centres from which the viscera are supplied with nerves. The cranial ganglia of the sympathetic are the ophthalmic, spheno- palatine, submaxillary, and otic, which, being intimately united with the fifth cranial nerve, have already been described along with that nerve. They are also more or less directly connected with the upper end of the sympathetic gangliated cords; but it will be unnecessary to give any special description of them in this place. THE CERVICAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the neck, each gangliated cord is deeply placed behind the sheath of the great cervical blood-vessels, and in contact with the muscles which immediately cover the fore part of the vertebral column. It comprises three ganglia, the first of which is placed near the base of the skull, the second in the lower part of the neck, and the third immediately above the head of the first rib. THE UPPER CERVICAL GANGLION. This is the largest ganglion of the great sympathetic cord. It is continued superiorly into an ascending branch, and tapers below into the connecting cord, so as to present usually a fusiform shape ; but there is considerable variety in this respect in different cases, the ganglion being occasionally broader than usual, and sometimes con- stricted at intervals. It has the reddish-grey colour characteristic of the ganglia of the sympathetic system. It is placed on the larger rectus muscle, opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae, and behind the internal carotid artery. Connection tvith spinal nerves.—At its outer side the superior cervical ganglion is connected with the first four spinal nerves, by means of slender cords, which have the structure pointed out in the general description as being common to the series. The circumstance of this ganglion being connected with so many as four spinal nerves, together with its occasionally constricted appearance, is favourable to the view that it may be regarded as consisting of several ganglia which have coalesced. Connection with cranial nerves.—Small twigs connect the ganglion or its cranial cord with the second ganglion of the pneumo-gastric, and with the ninth cranial nerve, near the base of the skull; and another branch, which is directed upwards from the ganglion, divides at the base of the skull into two filaments, one of which ends in the second (petrosal) ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; while the other, entering the jugular foramen, joins the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric. . ... . . , . . Besides the branches connecting it with cranial and spinal nerves, the first cervical ganglion gives off also the ascending branch, the ppper cardiac nerve, pharyngeal nerves, and branches to blood-vessels. 1. ASCENDING BRANCH AND CRANIAL PLEXUSES. — Hie ascending'