BONES OF TIIE IIEAD. 46 tililc part of the inner wall of the orbit. The orbital plate articulates in front with the lachrymal, behind with the sphenoid, above with the frontal, and below with the orbital surfaces of the superior maxillary and palate bones. In front of the orbital plate the lateral mass extends forwards, under cover of the lachrymal bone ; and from this part descends the uncinate process, a long thin lamella which curves downwards, outwards and backwards, forming part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and articulating at its extremity with the inferior turbinated bone. The internal aspect of each lateral mass forms part of the external wall of the nasal fossa, and consists of a thin, uneven plate, connected above with the cribriform lamella, and exhibiting a number of canals and grooves for branches of the olfactory nerve. It is divided at its back part by a channel, directed forwards and upwards from its poste- rior margin to about its middle. This is called the superior meatus of the nose, and communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. The short margin which overhangs this channel constitutes the superior tur- binated process or spongy bone. Below this is a slightly folded margin of greater extent, free in front and behind, the inferior turbinated pro- cess or middle spongy bone, which overhangs the middle meatus of the nose. From the front of the middle meatus a passage, the infundibulum, is prolonged upwards and forwards through the anterior ethmoidal cells, into the frontal sinus. In the separate ethmoid bone the cells are open posteriorly and superiorly, but when the bone is in connection with the rest of the cranium these cells are closed, above by the frontal bone, and behind by the sphenoidal spongy bones. In the superior margin are two grooves, which complete with the frontal bone the internal orbital foramina. The cribriform lamella corresponds in size to the incisura ethmoi- dalis of the frontal bone which it occupies. At the sides of the crista it is depressed into two grooves which lodge the olfactory bulbs ; and it is pierced by numerous foramina, for transmission of the filaments of the olfactory nerves. The foramina which lie along the middle of each groove, are simple perforations ; the internal and external sets are longer, and are the orifices of small canals which subdivide as they descend on the vertical plate and lateral masses. At the anterior extremity is a small fissure at each side of the crista galli, close to its base, and externally to this a foramen, connected usually by a slight groove with the anterior internal orbital foramen, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The upper jaw, maxilla superior, is one of the principal bones of the face ; it supports all the teeth of the upper range, and takes part in the formation of the hard palate, the floor of the orbit, and the floor and lateral wall of the nasal cavity. It presents inferiorly a thick ridge, the alveolar process, containing the sockets or alveoli for the roots of the teeth, and a horizontal palate plate ; externally, a convex surface corresponding with the anterior and lateral parts of the face; supe- riorly an ascending or nasal process and an orbital plate ; and inter- nally a nasal surface, opening from which is a large cavity or sinus.