598 THE DORSAL NERVES. The posterior branches bend backwards over the latisshnuK dorsi muscle. (b) The anterior cutaneous nerves of tlie abdomen become subcutaneous near the linea alba, accompanying’ the small perforating arteries. Their number and position are very uncertain. They are directed outwards towards the lateral cutaneous nerves. A second set is described by Cruveilhier as existing at the outer edge of the rectus muscle. LAST DORSAL NERVE. The anterior primary division of this nerve is below the last rib, and is contained altogether in the abdominal wall. The nerve has the general course and distribution of the others between the internal oblique and transversalis, but, before taking its place between those muscles, it passes in front of the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, and pierces the posterior aponeurosis of the transverse muscle. This nerve is connected by offsets with the nerve above, and occasionally with the ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus. Near the spine it sometimes communicates with the first lumbar nerve by means of a small cord in the substance of the quadratus lumborum. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve, passing through both oblique muscles, is directed downwards over the iliac crest to the integument, covering the fore part of the gluteal region and the upper and outer part of the thigh, some filaments reaching as far as the great trochanter of the femur. LUMBAR NERVES. The anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves increase in size from the first to the fifth ; and all, except the fifth, which passes down to join the sacral nerves, are connected together by communicatiug loops, so as to form the lumbar plexus. On leaving the intervertebral foramina these nerves are connected by filaments with the sympathetic nerve, these filaments being longer than those connected with other spinal nerves, in consequence of the position of the lumbar sympathetic ganglia on the fore part of the bodies of the vertebra;. In the same situation are furnished small twigs to the psoas and quadratus lum- borum muscles. LUMBAR PLEXUS. The lumbar plexus is formed by the communications between the anterior primary divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves. It is placed in the substance of the psoas muscle, in front of the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae. Above, the plexus is narrow, and is sometimes connected with the last dorsal nerve by a small offset from that nerve, named dorsi-lumbar ; below it is wider, and is joined to the sacral plexus by means of a branch given by the fourth lumbar nerve to the fifth. , . „ £ i The arrangement of the plexus may be thus stated. The first nerve gives off the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and sends down- wards a communicating branch to the second nerve. Ihe second furnishes the greater part of the genito-crural and external cutaneous nerves, and gives a connecting branch to the third, from which some ot the fibres of the anterior crural and obturator nerves are derived. From the third nerve, besides the descending branch to the fourth,