24 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. cannot be entirely omitted in a work on human anatomy. At the same time, it is obvious that the complicated nature of the subject, and the necessity for frequent reference to details of comparative anatomy for its elucidation make it impossible to enter fuUy into its consideration here, so that our remarks must be limited to those points in which the views of homology have the most immediate bearing upon the knowledge of human anatomy. The accompanying views of the several vertebras and some of their varieties from above (in fig. 21) may assist the reader in comparing their forms. 1. The series of centra or bodies, surrounding the primary axis of the noto- chord, is complete in man, from the processus dentatus of the second vertebra to the caudal extremity. In the head it is ascertained to be prolonged into the basi- occipital and basisphenoid parts of the base of the skull. It is apparently absent in the atlas, or rather the part corresponding to the centrum or body of that vertebra is united with the body of the axis in the odontoid process : while the anterior arch of the atlas belongs to a different series of parts, not yet accu- rately determined, perhaps to the precentral or subcentral parts or hypapophyses. The proofs of this view are derived mainly from, 1st, the remains of the noto- chord having been actually traced in the foetus through the odontoid process (and not through the anterior arch of the atlas) into the basioccipital bone ; 2nd, the separate ossification in cartilage of the odontoid process ; and 3rd, the existence in some animals, as the omithorynchus and some reptiles, of a bone corresponding to the odontoid process, in a separate condition, without any other part representing the body of the atlas. 2. The series of neural arches is complete in the whole vertebral column of man, with the exception of the three lowest coccygeal vertebras, and in part of the upper coccygeal and lowest sacral vertebrae. The neural spines are also complete in nearly the same vertebras as the arches. The spine is absent or little developed in the atlas, bifid at its extremity in the next five cervical vertebrae, but simple in all the remaining vertebrae in which it is present. 3. The articular processes, or zygapophyses, superior and inferior (ante- rior and posterior in animals), correspond in their relations throughout the whole of the vertebrae in which they exist, with the exception of both of those of the atlas and the superior of the axis. In these last mentioned vertebrae the articular pro- cesses are not in the series of zygapophyses, being situated at the place of union of the pedicles with the bodies, or nearly in the place of the capitular articulation of the ribs with the vertebral bodies, and therefore anterior to the place of exit of the spinal nerves, instead of posterior to it as in the other vertebrae. In the sacral vertebraE the articular processes, existing as such in early life, come to be in the adult united by anchylosis. In the three lower coccygeal vertebral they are absent. 4. It is in the comparison of the parts known in human anatomy under the general name of transverse processes, that the main difficulty of establishing homologies exists. In all the cervical vertebrae the processes so called are pierced by a vertebrarterial foramen, and the most of them have two tubercles. Those of the dorsal vertebrae are for the most part simple, but are articulated at two places with the ribs. At these two places are situated processes, sometimes projecting in animals to a considerable extent, which receive respectively the names of di- apophysis and parapophysis; the first (diapophysis) being the tubercular or costo- transverse, the posterior or upper articulation of the rib ; the second, or par- apophysis, being the capitular or costo-central articulation, the lower or anterior, of the rib, placed close to the body but separated from it by the ncuro-central suture. It is very generally admitted that the part in front of the vertebrar- terial foramen of the cervical vertebras corresponds in series to the first part of a rib • as is illustrated by the separate ossification of that piece of bone in the seventh cervical vertebra in man, and by the occasional occurrence of more fully developed cervical ribs in that situation. The vascular passage in the dorsal region is between the neck of the rib and the vertebra. In the lumbar vertebrae the transverse processes are elongated laterally, and at their root two other processes become apparent, viz., the mam- millary or metapophysis, looking upwards in man or forwards in animals, and the