265 EPICRANIAL AND AURICULAR MUSCLES. parts. The frontalis has been found to send slips of attachment to the frontal, nasal, or superior maxillary bones, and occasionally to the tendo oculi or to the upper end of the levator labii superioris alacque nasi. A pair of symmetrical muscular slips is very frequently observed extending- outwards from the occipital protuberance, generally on the suiface of the trape- zius. but sometimes underlying that muscle, and inserted variously into the posterior auricular or stemo-mastoid muscles, or into the outer part of the occi- pital bone. This pair- of muscular slips has received the name of transversals nucluc. Actions.—By the contraction of the combined occipito-frontales muscles, the scalp is drawn backwards, and the eyebrows elevated ; by the contraction of the frontales muscles alone, the eyebrows are elevated, the scalp pulled forwards, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse wrinkles ; by the contraction of the occipitales muscles alone, the scalp is drawn backwards ; and by the alternate action of the occipitales and frontales muscles the scalp is moved backwards and forwards. In the majority of persons, however, there is only a partial control over the action of these muscles, limited to the elevation of the eyebrows and horizontal wrinkling of the forehead. AURICULAR MUSCLES. Besides minute bundles of muscular fibres which pass from one part of the auricle to another, and which will be most conveniently described along with that structure, there are attached to the external ear three larger, but still very slightly developed, muscles, which serve to move it as a whole. The auricularis superior or attollens auriculam, the largest of the three, arises in the temporal region of the head from the epicranial aponeurosis. Its fibres are extremely delicate, and converge from a wide surface to be inserted by a compressed tendon into the cartilage of the ear at the upper and anterior part of the helix and upper part ‘ of the concha. The auricularis anterior or attrahens auriculam, scarcely sepa- rated from the preceding muscle, is pale and indistinct, and is attached to the thin lateral prolongation of the epicranial aponeurosis, from which it passes backwards to be inserted into the fore part of the helix. The auricularis posterior or retrahens auriculam muscle, con- sists of two or three fasciculi, which arise from the mastoid process by short aponeurotic fibres, and are inserted into the back part of the concha. The fibres are deeper in colour and more distinctly marked than in either of the other auricular muscles. / T arietics.—Of the auricular muscles the posterior and the anterior are subject to greater varieties than the superior, but all vaiy somewhat in the extent of their development, the posterior more frequently by an increase in the number of its slips, the anterior by a diminution of the volume and distinctness of its . :)les- The posterior fibres of the attollens have been observed continued back into the occipitalis. Actions, the three auricular muscles respectively draw the pinna of the ear upward*, backwards, and forwards. In the majority of persons their action is not directly under voluntary control. muscles op the eyelids and eyebrows. J^ese are in number—namely, the orbicularis palpebrarum superciliT1' ^aiS^ ^ie ieva^or palpebrm superioris, and the corrugator