116 BONES OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. bones, and present anteriorly and posteriorly smooth surfaces for articula- tion with those bones. The first or internal cuneiform bone is the largest; it is narrow above, and thick and rough towards the sole ; its dorsal surface looks inwards and upwards, and is marked by an oblique descending groove, in which the tendon of the tibialis anticus lies ; its external surface, concave and rough infcriorly, is smooth and arti- cular above. The second and third, or middle and external, cuneiform bones present each a quadrangular surface superiorly, and a narrower rough edge below, contributing thus to form the transverse arch of the foot. The proximal ends of the three bones are in the same transverse line ; but as the middle bone is shortest, the internal and external project forwards, so as to articulate laterally not only with the sides of that bone, but also with the base of the second metatarsal bone, which is inserted between them. The outer side of the third cuneiform articulates by a smooth fiat surface with the cuboid, and by a small narrow facet (sometimes absent) with the fourth metatarsal bone. The cuboid bone is situated at the outer side of the foot, between the calcaneum and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It deviates from the cuboid form and becomes rather pyramidal, by the sloping of four of its surfaces towards the smaller external border. The posterior carti- laginous surface articulates with the os calcis : the anterior surface, also covered with cartilage, is divided into an internal quadrilateral and an external triangular facet, articulating with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. On the internal aspect, in the middle, and touching its superior border, is a smooth surface, which articulates with the external cunei- form bone, and behind this, in some instances, a smaller surface arti- culating with the scaphoid, while the remainder is rough for ligaments. The external border presents a smooth vertical groove, in which the tendon of the peroneus longus lies ; and the inferior surface is traversed obliquely near its anterior margin by a continuation of the same groove ; behind this there is a thick ridge, which, with the rest of the inferior surface, gives attachment to the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. The supe- rior surface, looking outwards and upwards, is on the whole even, but rather rough. THE METATARSUS. The five metatarsal bones are distinguished by numbers, according to their position from within outwards. They resemble the metacarpal bones of the hand in being shafted bones/ slightly convex from behind forwards on the dorsal aspect, and having irregularly shaped proximal extremities, three-sided shafts, and rounded heads which articulate with the phalanges. The first meta- tarsal bone is much thicker and more massive, though shorter than any of the rest. The others diminish in length from the second to the fifth. The proximal extremities resemble those of the metacarpal bones exactly as regards the number of bones with which each articulates. The first articulates with one bone, the internal cuneiform ; the second with four bones, viz., the three cuneiform and the third metatarsal; the third with three bones, viz., the external cuneiform and the adjacent metatarsals ; the fourth with four bones, viz., the cuboid, external cunei- form, and the adjacent metatarsals; the fifth with two bones, viz., the cuboid and the fourth metatarsal. The fourth, however, is sometimes con-