Fig. 205.—A View or the Mesci.es 276 MUSCLES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 205. nerve. A synovial sheath lines the contiguous surfaces of the tendon and pulley. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the roof of the orbit, the fourth nerve entering- its upper surface ; and beneath it lie the nasal nerve and the internal rectus muscle. op the Eight Orbit, from the OUTSIDE, THE OUTER WALL HAVING BEEN REMOVED. (A. T.) ^ B, Explanatory Sketch of the sajib Muscles. a, supraorbital ridge ; h, lower margin of the orbit formed by the superior max- illary bone ; e, anterior clinoid process; cl, posterior part of the floor of the orbit above the spheno-maxillary fossa; e, side of the body of the sphenoid bone below the optic foramen and sphe- noidal fissure ; /, sinus maxillaris ; 1, levator palpebral superioris, near its insertion ; 2, pulley and tendon of the superior oblique muscle; 3, tendon of the superior rectus muscle at its inser- tion upon the eyeball ; 4, in A, external rectus ; 4', in B, tendon of insertion of the same muscle, a part of which has been removed ; the double origin of the muscle is shown at the apex of the orbit; 5, the inferior oblique muscle crossing the eyeball below the inferior rectus ; 6, the inferior rectus ; 7, in B, the inside of the internal rectus, seen in consequence of the removal of a part of the external rectus, and near it, the end of the optic nerve cut short close to the place of its entrance into the eyeball. The inferior oblique is the only muscle of the eye which does not take origin at the apex of the orbit. It arises from a minute de- pression in the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, just within the anterior margin of the orbit, and close to the external border of the lachrymal groove. The muscle inclines outwards and backwards between the inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, and ends in a tendinous expansion, which passes between the external rectus and the eyeball, to be inserted on the external and posterior aspect of the globe. Varieties.—The levator palpebim sometimes gives off a slip from its inner border, which passes to be inserted into the trochlea, forming the tensor trochlea of Budge. A slip of a similar nature was described by Albinus as a case of doubling of the levator palpebrae, and by Mollinetti as a fifth rectus. The levator palpebrse has been seen entirely wanting (Macalister). The rectus extemus may have its two heads separate to their insertion, thus forming a double rectus (Albinus). Macalister has twice noted the absence of the outer head. The tramversus orlitis (Bochdalek) consists of an arching slip of muscular fibres passing from the anterior and superior portion of the os planum across the upper surface of the eyeball to the outer wall of the orbit. It is probably, as Macalister suggests, a displaced deep slip of the palpebral fibres of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum.