ABDOMINAL LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL VESSELS. 509 number, clustering round the external iliac artery, receive the efferent vessels from both deep aud superficial inguinal glands. The internal iliac lymphatic glands, a numerous series placed on the internal iliac artery, and the sacral glands, placed in the hollow of the sacrum, receive the lymphatics from the pelvic viscera and parietes. The lumbar lymphatic glands are very large and numerous ; they are placed in front of the lumbar vertebras, around the aorta and vena cava. To these proceed the efferent vessels of the glands already men- tioned, as well as those which accompany several of the branches of the abdominal aorta. The efferent absorbent vessels which proceed from the lumbar glands progressively increase in size, while their number diminishes, and at length they unite into a few trunks, which, with those of the laoteals, form the origin of the thoracic duct. The deep lymphatics of the abdominal wall in part pass along the circumflex iliac and epigastric arteries, to the external iliac glands ; the greater number are directed backwards with the ilio-lumbar and lumbar arteries, and, being joined by the lymphatics from the muscles of the back, pass behind the psoas muscle to the vertebral column, where they enter the lumbar glands. The lacteals (vasa lactea, chylifera) commence in the coats of the intestines by a very close plexus, and extend to the thoracic duct, in which they all terminate : they are far more numerous in the small than in the large intestine, so that they abound in the mesentery, and particularly in that of the jejunum and ileum. Two series of absorbent vessels are found along the tube of the intestine, having different positions and directions: those nearest to the outer surface of the intestine run longitudinally in the course of the canal, lying beneath the peritoneal coat, whilst others, placed more deeply between the muscular and mucous coats, run transversely round the intestine, and are directed thence with the arteries and veins along the mesentery, enclosed between the two layersjof the peritoneum. (Cruik- shank, “Anatomy of the Absorbent Vessels,” p. 162.) Sometimes the more superficial absorbents of the intestine are named lymphatics, to distinguish them from the deep set which absorb the chyle from the cavity of the intestine. According to Teichmann (“ Das Saugader- system,” 1861, p. 75), the two plexuses have no capillary anastomoses, but communicate only through valved vessels : this they do freely. The lacteals, having entered the mesentery, take the course of the - blood-vessels, and pass through successive sets of numerous mesenteric lymphatic glands. The mesenteric glands vary in number from a hundred and thirty to a hundred and fifty; and in the healthy state are seldom larger than an almond. They are most numerous in that part of the mesentery which corresponds with the jejunum ; and they seldom occur nearer to the attached border of the intestine than two inches. Small glands m limited numbers are also disseminated irregularly between the folds of the peritoneum connected with the large intestines. Having passed through these glands, the lacteals gradually unite as they approach the attached border of the mesentery, and so become diminished in number but increased in size, until at length, near the root of the superior mesenteric artery, only two or three trunks remain,