THE CRANIAL NERVES. 532 clinoid process. Continuing onwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, the fourth nerve enters the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, and above the muscles. Its position with reference to other nerves in this part of its course has been already described. In the orbit, the fourth nerve inclines inwards above the muscles, and enters finally the upper oblique muscle at its orbital surface. While in its fibrous canal in the outer wall of the sinus, the fourth nerve is joined by filaments of the sympathetic, and not unfrequently is blended with the ophthalmic division of the fifth. Bidder states that three or more small fila- ments of this nerve extend to the tentorium as far as the lateral sinus; and has figured one as joining’ the sympathetic on the carotid artery. (Neurologische Beobachtungen, von F. H. Bidder. Dorpat, 1836.) FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. The fifth, or trifacial nerve (nerv. trigeminus), the largest cranial nerve, resembles a spinal nerve, in respect that it consists of a motor and a sensory part, and that the sensory fibres pass through a ganglion while the motor do not. Its sensory division, which is much the larger, imparts common sensibility to the face and the fore part of the head, as well as to the eye, the nose, the ear, and the mouth ; and endows the fore part of the tongue with the powers of both touch and taste. The motor root supplies chiefly the muscles of mastication. Surface attachment.—The nerve arises from the side of the pons Yarolii, where the transverse fibres of the latter are prolonged into the middle crus cerebelli, considerably nearer to the upper than to the lower border of the pons. The smaller root is at first concealed by the larger, and is placed a little higher up, there being often two or three cross fibres of the pons between them. On separating the two roots, the lesser one is seen to consist of a very few funiculi. In the larger root the funiculi are numerous, amounting sometimes to nearly a hundred. Deep origin.—The fibres of the large root pass backwards inwards and slightly downwards as a compact bundle, towards the outer part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The chief nucleus, in which most of the fibres end, is situated to the outer side of the trunk, and consists of a collection of nerve cells, continuous below with the grey tubercle of Rolando (caput cornu posterioris). The cells are small and arranged in clusters, separated by the delicate fasciculi of origin of the nerve. In front of this nucleus a number of descending fibres pass down, mingled with grey matter’, to the lower part of the medulla oblongata. Some fibres of the nerve are said to join the middle peduncle of the cerebellum ; others pass inwards beneath the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, decussate at the raphe, and (according to Meynert) ascend on the opposite side of the medulla. The small root passes in a curve, with the convexity forwards, to reach the neighbourhood of the nucleus of the larger root. Its fibres arise from a group of large nerve cells, situated close to the outer angle of the fourth ventricle, to the inner side of the fibres of the nerve. A prolongation from this nucleus exteuds down the medulla, as far as the olivary1 bodies, receding from the surface, and to it, below, some fibres of origin of the facial nerve are traced. Course. The roots of the fifth nerve, after emerging from the surface of the encephalon, are directed forwards, side by side, to the middle fossa of the skull, through a recess in the dura mater on the