227 FASCL/E OF THE IIIP AND THIGH. Poupart’s ligament, is placed the saphenous opening, an aperture in the fascia lata through which the internal saphenous vein passes to join the femoral vein, and which receives special attention from its bein^ the place of exit of femoral hernia. The outer part of this opening lies in front of the femoral artery, and is bounded externally by a crescentic margin, the falciform horcler, which crosses the surface of the infundi- buliform sheath of the femoral vessels. This margin in the middle of its extent is continued into looser tissue, but superiorly and interiorly it ends in two more distinct incurved extremities, the superior and inferior cornua. The inferior cornu, the most completely defined part of the margin, lies in the angle between the internal saphenous and the femoral veins, below their junction ; while the superior cornu forms a larger curve, the inner extremity of which, often called femoral ligament, passing completely to the inner side of the femoral sheath, is attached to the front of Gimbernat’s ligament. It is customary to call the parts of the fascia lata which are placed external and internal to the saphenous opening the iliac and pubic portions. The iliac portion is intimately connected above with Pou- part’s ligament, as well as with the fascia transversalis and deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, and internally forms the falci- form margin of the saphenous opening ; the pubic portion, attached superiorly to the pectineal line, passes on its outer side deeply behind the sheath of the vessels, with which it is connected, and is continued into the fascia} between the muscles. The fascia lata is perforated in many places by foramina, which allow the passage of the cutaneous nerves and blood-vessels. The fascia lata has various deep processes. One of these, leaving the main fascia at the insertion of the tensor vagime femoris muscle, passes upwards within that muscle as a strong flat band on the surface of the vastus externus, and is attached superiorly to the ilium above the origin of the posterior head of the rectus femoris. Two processes, the external and internal intermuscular septa, bind the fascia to the femur in the lower part of the thigh : the external septum, situated between the vastus externus muscle and the short head of the biceps, is inserted into the linea aspera from the lower border of the tendon of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the bone: the internal septum, which is much thinner, is inserted into the femur between the vastus internus and the adductor muscles. Sheath of the Femoral Vessels.—The femoral vessels are surrounded by an investment of fascia, which in its upper part is particularly dis- tinct,. and receives the name of the crural sheath. This sheath, com- mencing at the deep crural arch, is continuous with the fascia trans- versalis and fascia iliaca of the cavity of the abdomen. Its outer border descends in contact with the artery, while its inner border is inclined outwards from the margin of Gimbernat’s ligament, and comes in contact with the vein at the distance of less than an inch lower do'.Mi: the sheath is therefore funnel-shaped. It is divided into three compartments, separated by thin septa : the outermost contains the artery, the middle one the vein, and the innermost forms a space occupied a its upper end by the crural ring, and in which there is generally a ymp latic gland and some fat. Through this passage femoral hernia escends, and .on this account it has been named the crural canal. (See later, the special account of Hernia.) Q 2 L