BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 448 corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis, are distributed to the clitoris, and are named the profunda and dorsal arteries. The sciatic artery, the largest branch of the internal iliac trunk, excepting the gluteal, is distributed to the muscles on the back of the pelvis. It descends upon the pelvic surface of the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus of nerves ; and turning backwards beneath the border of that muscle, it passes between it and the superior gemellus, and thus escapes from the pelvis, along with the great sciatic nerve and the pudic artery, at the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. Outside the pelvis, this artery lies in the interval between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, covered by the gluteus maximus. Branches.—The sciatic artery gives off several branches to the external rotator muscles of the thigh, on which it lies, and to the great gluteus by which it is concealed. Two others have received special names, viz., the following :— (A) The coccygeal, inclines inwards, and piercing the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, reaches the posterior surface of the coccyx, and ramifies in the fat and skin about that bone. (A) The comes nervi iscldadici runs downwards, accompanying the sciatic nerve, along which it sends a slender vessel. Some of the branches of this artery are distributed to the capsule of the hip- joint; whilst others, after supplying the contiguous muscles, anastomose with the gluteal, the internal circumflex, and the superior perforating arteries in the upper part of the long flexor muscles of the thigh. The gluteal artery, the largest branch of the internal iliac, is dis- tributed to the muscles on the outside of the pelvis. It inclines down- wards to the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and escaping from the cavity of the pelvis, between the contiguous borders of the middle gluteal and the pyriform muscles, divides immediately into a superficial and a deep branch. Branches. ~(a) The superficial branch running between the gluteus maximus and gluteus medius, divides into ramifications which are most copiously distri- buted to the glutens maximus, and anastomose with the sciatic and posterior sacral arteries. (A) The deep branch, situated between the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, runs in an arched direction forwards, and divides into two other branches. One of these, the superior branch, follows the upper border of the gluteus minimus beneath the middle gluteal muscle and the tensor of the fascia lata, towards the anterior iliac spine, and, after having freely supplied the muscles between which it passes, anastomoses with the circumflex iliac and the ascending branches of the external circumflex arteries. The second or inferior branch descends towards the great trochanter, supplies the gluteal muscles, and anastomoses with the external circumflex and the sciatic arteries. (<?) A nutrient branch enters the ilium at the place where the artery emerges from the pelvis. The ilio-lumbar artery resembles in a great measure one of the lumbar arteries. It passes outwards beneath the psoas muscle and the external iliac vessels, to reach the margin of the iliac tossa, whoie it separates into a lumbar and an iliac division. The first of these ramifies in the psoas and (juadratus muscles, communicating v\ ith the last lumbar artery, and furnishing branches to the'veitcbral canal, filie second or iliac division, turning downwards and outwards, either m tlie iliacus muscle or between it and the bone, anastomoses with the circumflex iliac artery, and even with the external branches of the epigastric.