299 DORSAL AND LTJMEAR FASCLZE. .1 the latissimus dorsi, and its aponeurotic part is firmly united for some ( distance with the tendon of that muscle. Actions.—The serratus posticus superior elevates the upper ribs, and is there- j fore to be regarded as a muscle of inspiration. The serratus inferior acts directly Ji as a depressor of the lower ribs, and may aid either in expiration or inspiration ? expiration by acting hi concert with the muscles which depress the highei 1 ribs : in inspiration by fixing the lower ribs and giving firmness to the origin of ;j the diaphragm. The vertebral aponeurosis is situated on the same plane as the ij serratus posticus inferior, and consists of a thin lamella which separates : the muscles belonging to the shoulder and arm from those which sup- port the spine and head. Its fibres are for the most part transverse ; some however are longitudinal. Above, it passes beneath the superior , serratus ; below, it is connected with the tendons of the latissimus and inferior serratus muscles, and in being stretched from the spinous pro- . cesses outwards across the vertebral groove, it helps to enclose the angular space in which are lodged the long extensor muscles. Dorsal and Lumbar Fasciae.—Under the name of lumbar fascia or aponeurosis it has been customary to describe three layers of strong i fibrous substance sheathing the erector spinte and quadratus lumborum muscles. The deeper parts of this structure, to which by some the name of lumbar fascia is restricted, will be described along with the ■ abdominal muscles, with which they are chiefly connected. The super- ficial or posterior layer is that through which the latissimus dorsi and I serratus posticus inferior muscles are attached to the spines of the dorsal, lumbar and sacral vertebrae and to the crest of the ilium. This layer, i which is of considerable strength, extends outwards beyond the origin i of the latissimus and serratus inferior, and being closely united with i the middle layer, binds down firmly the erectores spinae muscles : it is i by some described as the lower part of the vertebral aponeurosis, with which it is continuous, by others it has been named the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. The splexius muscle is so named from its having' the form of a strap, which binds down the parts lying under it. It is attached supe- riorly in part to the cervical vertebrae, in part to the skull, and is described accordingly under two names. a. The splenius colli is attached inferiorly to the spinous processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and superiorly along with the slips of the levator anguli scapulae to the transverse processes 1 of the first two or three cervical vertebrae. b. The splenitis capitis, broader and thicker than the preceding, 'arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchae as high as the third cervical vertebrae. It is inserted into the lower and back part of the mastoid process, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the j occipital bone. Relations.—The splenitis is covered by the trapezius, the rhomboid, and the J serratus posticus superior ; and at its attachment to the occipital bone by the ■ stemo-mastoid. It conceals, in part, the complexus and trachelo-mastoid. ') . Erector Spines.—This muscle may either be regarded as one large .! composite muscle, or as consisting of seven distinct muscles. Viewed as one muscle it may be conveniently considered as formed of three