MUSCLES OF TIIE THORAX. 308 The levatores costarum, twelve on each side, arise from the tips of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and eleven highest dorsal vertebrae. Corresponding in direction with the external inter- costal muscles, on which they lie, they pass downwards and outwards, spreading as they descend, and each is inserted into the outer surface of the rib belonging to the vertebra below that from which it springs. The levator muscles belonging to the lower ribs present some longer additional fibres which, passing over a rib, are inserted into the next one below ; these fibres are sometimes distinguished as levatores cos- tarum longiores. Relations.—The levatores costarum lie in series superiorly with the scaleni medius and posticus, and interiorly with the lateral lumbar intertransverse muscles. The subcostal muscles are small bundles lying on the inner aspect of the thoracic wall, close to the surface of the internal intercostal, and chiefly in the neighbourhood of the angles of the ribs. They follow’ the same direction as the internal intercostal muscles, but their fibres extend over one or two intercostal spaces. They are most constant on the lower ribs (see fig. 221). The triangularis sterni, a thin stratum of muscular and tendinous fibres placed within the thorax, behind the costal cartilages, arises from the deep surface of the ensiform process of the lower part of the body of the sternum, and of the cartilages of one or two of the lower true ribs. Its fibres pass outward and upwards in a diverging manner, the lowest being horizontal, the middle oblique, and the upper becoming more and more nearly vertical ; they are inserted by separate slips into the carti- lages of the true ribs from the sixth to the second inclusive, on the lower border and inner surface of each, at the junction with the bony part. At the lower margin the fibres are in the same plane with those of the transversalis abdominis, of which the triangularis sterni muscle is a continuation upwards. Relations.—The internal mammary artery and veins pass between its anterior surface and the costal cartilages ; the pleura is in contact with its deep surface. Varieties.—The triangularis sterni is subject to much variation as to its extent and points of attachment in different bodies, and even on the opposite sides of the same body. The subcostales also vary greatly in then- extent in different subjects. The rectus sternalis, or sternalis brutorum, is an elongated muscle, of nearly the same length as the sternum, frequently seen lying in front and parallel to the outer margin of that bone, and over the inner part of the pectoral muscle. It is fleshy in the middle and tendinous at both ends; it is attached superiorly to the sternum in connection with the tendon of the stemo-mastoid, and interiorly it is connected with the rectus abdominis muscle. It is rarely present on both sides. It represents a muscle which is constant in some animals. THE DIAPHRAGM. The diaphragm, or midriff, forms a musculo-tendinous partition between the abdominal and thoracic cavities. It consists of muscular fibres which arch upwards as they converge from the circumference or the visceral cavitv to a tendinous structure in the centre, and it is perforated by the various structures which pass from the thorax to the abdomen.