37 TEMPORAL BONE. situated at its base; it is known as the foramen caecum, and transmits a minute vein from the nasal fossae. The upper and greater part of the Fig. 32.—The Frontal Bone Fig. 32. FROM BEHIND AND BELOW, SHOWING THE INTERNAL CERE- BRAL Surface and the Roof of the Orbits. (A. T.) £ 2,4, and 5, as in the preceding figure ; 9, internal or cerebral surface, slightly marked by cere- bral convolutions and glandular pits ; 10, groove of the superior longitudinal sinus, ending below in, 11, the internal frontal crest, which leads down to, 13, the foramen caecum ; 12, the orbital plate, the number is placed in the depression for the lachrymal gland; 14, the opening of the frontal sinus; 15, placed on the roof of the orbit internally, is near the opening of the an- terior ethmoidal or internal orbital foramen. edge encompassing the cerebral surface of the bone is deeply serrated, and articulates with the parietal bones in the coronal suture; the lower transverse part is thin and uneven, and articulates with the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid in the transverse suture. The adult frontal bone is sometimes divided into two parts by a median suture, the frontal suture which may be regarded as the persistence of the original foetal condition. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal bone (os temporis) takes part in the construction of the side and base of the skull, and contains in its interior the organ of hearing. It is usually described in three parts, viz., an expanded anterior and superior part, the squamous portion with the zygomatic process, a thicker posterior portion, the mastoid, and below and between these the petrous portion, a three-sided pyramid, exhibiting at its base externally the aperture of the ear, and projecting forwards and inwards into the base of the skull. With these is combined in the adult the styloid process or bone. It articulates posteriorly and internally with the occipital bone, supe- riorly with the parietal, anteriorly with the sphenoid, by the zygomatic process with the malar, and by the glenoid cavity with the inferior maxillary bone. The squamous portion, or squamo-zygomatic, extends forwards and upwards from its connection with the other portions, and presents superiorly an arched border which describes about two-thirds of a circle. The inner surface is marked by cerebral impressions, and by meningeal grooves. At its upper border, the outer table is prolonged considerably beyond the inner, forming a thin scale with the fluted surface looking