ARTICULATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. 1C8 Ihc tibia. Between the tibia and the ligament, near its insertion is plaeed a synovial bursa. If the patella be considered a sesamoid bone this ligament may be regarded as part of the tendon of the reetui lemons muscle. The crucial ligaments, placed in the centre of the joint, pass from the sides of the intercondylar fossa to the spaces in front of and behind the spine of the tibia. They decussate somewhat like the lines ol the letter X. The anterior or external ligament is fixed by its lower Fig. 150. A B Fig. [150, A.—The Knee-Joint, opened from before, to show the Crucial LIGA- MENTS AND SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. (A. T.) i 1, external, and 2, internal semilunar cartilage; 3, on the outer condylar surface of the femur, points to the anterior crucial ligament ; 4, placed on the elevated line separat- ing the patellar from the inner condylar surface of the femur, points to the posterior crucial ligament ; 5, transverse ligament of the semilunar cartilages ; 6, part of the ligamentum patella ; 7, on the head of the fibula, points to the superior anterior tibio- fibular ligament ; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane, showing the perforation for the anterior tibial artery. Fig. 150, B.—The Knee-Joint, opened from behind, so as to expose the Crucial Ligaments and Semilunar Cartilages. (A. T.) g 1, internal semilunar cartilage ; 2, external semilunar cartilage; 3, anterior crucial ligament; 4, posterior crucial ligament: farther up is seen its accessory band joining the external semilunar cartilage ; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane ; 9, internal lateral ligament; 10, placed on the head of the fibula, points to the posterior superior tibio-fibiUar ligament; between the head of the fibula and the external semilunar cartilage (2) is seen the synovial surface of the tibia, upon which the semilunar cartilage descends in flexion, and where a communication sometimes takes place between the synovial cavities of the knee-joint and the tibio-fibular articulation. extremity to the inner part of the pit before the spine of the tibia, and by its upper extremity it is inserted into the inner and hinder part of the external condyle of the femur; hence its direction is upwards, backwards, and outwards. The posterior or internal ligament is at-