224 MUSCLES OF TI1E UPPER LIMB. tendons inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx at the side, and partly into the extensor tendon. The first palmar interosseous muscle belongs to the ulnar side of the index-finger : the others are placed on the radial sides of the ring and little fingers. Varieties in the short muscles of the hand.—The palmaris brevis varies greatly in the strength of its muscular fibres, and somewhat also in their length and direction. It is sometimes entirely absent (in the proportion of one in forty- five out of six hundred dissections by Macalister). It is also sometimes found ruiining into the flexor minimi digiti. The abductor pollicis (lirevis) muscle is frequently found divided into an outer and an inner part,—a condition described by Soemmerring as normal; and accessory slips have been observed connected with it,—in some instances pro- ceeding from the styloid process (Cruveilhier and Turner), and in others from the opponens pollicis (Macalister). The flexor brevis pollicis is a variable muscle, especially in its deeper belly, a part of which shows a tendency to inn more or less in connection with the adductor pollicis ; and in the same manner the latter muscle is subject to varia- tion in its breadth of origin and extent in inverse proportion to those of the flexor brevis (Dursy in Henle and Pfeifer’s Zeitsch. 1853). The abductor minimi digiti is found in some cases partially divided into two or even into three slips, and in others to be united with the flexor brevis. The opponentes muscles are subject to varieties chiefly affecting their extent, and the degree of their union with or separation from the neighbouring muscles. The interossei muscles present some variations but not of any great magnitude. They are occasionally double in one or more of the spaces, and sometimes, though rarely, a palmar interosseous has been observed in the first space (Heale and Wood). The arrangement which usually exists in the foot, and which is peculiar to man, has also been observed to occur in the hand. Nerves of the muscles of the hand.—The median nerve supplies branches to the abductor pollicis, the flexor brevis and opponens immediately below the annular ligament, and to the two first lumbricales muscles from the first and second digital collateral nerves respectively. The ulnar nerve, besides giving a twig to the palmaris brevis, furnishes by its deep palmar division branches to the two internal lumbricales, all the interossei, the adductor, and the deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscles. ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM AND HAND. The muscles of the forearm may be distinguished according to their actions as pronators and supinators, flexors and extensors of the wrist, and long flexors and extensors of the fingers ; those of the hand are flexors and extensors, adductors, abductors and opposers of the fingers ; the terms adduction and abduction being here used with reference to the middle of the hand. Pronation is mainly effected by the pronator teres and pronator quadratus : the flexor carpi radialis also contributes slightly to this movement. The pronator teres is fitted to flex the elbow when pronation has been completed, or when it is prevented by antagonistic muscles. Supination is effected principally by the supinator brevis, the supinator longus only partially accomplishing this action. The latter muscle isjprincipally a flexor of the elbow, acting, however, only after that movement has been begun by other muscles. By the successive and alternating action, however, of the pronators and supinators and of the flexors and extensors of the carpus, a more complete rotation of the hand is produced, so that the ulna as well as the- radius moves round a fixed axis which is nearly in the line of the middle finger, as may be well seen in the use of a corkscrew or other like movements. When still more extensive movements of this kind are effected, they are accompanied by rotation of the whole limb at the shoulder-joint. Flexion of the wrist is produced by the radial and ulnar flexors of the carpus, and is aided by the flexors of the fingers when the action of those muscles on