THE ARTICULAR ARTERIES. 403 branch from the anterior tibial; whilst others ascend, and anastomose with the upper articular arteries. 0) The middle or azygos articular artery is a small branch which arises opposite the flexure of the joint, and, piercing the posterior ligament, supplies the crucial ligaments and other structures within the articulation. Fig. 296.—Anterior view of the Deep Arterial Branches surrounding the Knee-Joint and TnEiR Anastomoses (from Tiedemann). | a, the patellar articular surface of the femur; b, the posterior surface of the patella which, with the ligamentum patellae, has been turned down ; c, the head of the fibula ; ] and 2, branches of the internal superior articular branch of the popliteal ramifying on the periosteum, and anasto- mosing with the external superior articular branch 3, and with other arteries within and below the joint; 4, branches of the internal inferior articular; 5, external infeiioi Articular ; 6, recurrent of the anterior tibial artery. Varieties. —Deviations from the ordinary condition of the popliteal artery are not frequently met with. The principal departure from the ordinary arrange- ment consists in its high division into terminal branches. Such an early division has been found to take place most frequently opposite the flexure of the knee-joint, and not higher. In a few instances, the popliteal artery has been seen to divide into the anterior tibial and peroneal arteries—the posterior tibial being small or absent. In a single case, the popliteal artery was found to divide at once into three terminal vessels, viz., the peroneal and the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. The azygos articular branch frequently arises from one branches, especially from the upper and external branch, several small middle articular branches. Fig. 296. of the other articular There are sometimes POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The posterior tibial artery is situated along the back part of the leg, between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and is firmly bound down to the deep muscles by the fascia which covers them. It extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it is continuous with the popliteal artery, down to the inner side of the calcaneum, where it terminates beneath the origin of the abductor pollicis muscle by dividing into the external and internal plantar arteries. Placed at its origin opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula, it approaches the inner side of the leg as it descends, and lies behind the tibia; at its lower end it is placed midway between the inner malleolus and the prominence of the heel. Very deeply seated at the upper part, where it is covered by the fleshy portion of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, it becomes comparatively superficial towards the lower part, being there covered only by the integument and two layers of fascia, and by the annular ligament behind the inner malleolus.. It lies successively upon the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus. digitorum, and, at its lower end, directly on the tibia and the .ankle-joint. Behind the ankle, the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum lie between the artery and the internal