SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HERNIJ3. 342 pelvis at the outer side of the ring, or immediately behind it; and in some rare cases that vessel passes over the ring to its inner side An obturator vein also has occasionally the same course ; and ’smal branches of the epigastric artery will be generally found ramifying on the posterior aspect of Gimbernat’s ligament. In the male the ter. matic vessels are separated from the canal only by the femoral arch. rig- 240' Tig- 240.—View of the relations op the Vessels of the Groin to a Femoral Hernia, &c. (from Ti Quain). J In the upper part of the figure a portion of the fiat muscles of tbe abdomen has been removed, displaying in part the transversalis fascia and peritoneal lining of the abdomen; in the lower the fascia lata of the thigh is in part removed and the sheath of° the femoral vessels opened : the sac of the femoral hernial tumour has also been opened. a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; b, aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle above the exter- nal inguinal aperture ; c, the abdomi- nal peritoneum and fascia trans- versalis ; d, the iliac portion of the fascia lata near the saphenous opening; e, sac of the femoral hernia ; 1, points to the femoral artery ; 2, femoral vein at the place where it is joined by the saphenous vein ; 3, epigastric artery and vein passing up towards the back of the rectus muscle ; +, placed upon the upper part of the femoral vein, close below the common trunk of the epigastric and an aberrant obturator artery ; the latter artery is seen in this case to pass close to the vein and between it and the neck of the hernial tumour. Descent of the hernia.—When a femoral hernia is being formed, the protruded part is at first vertical in its course ; but at the lower end of the canal it bends forward at the saphenous opeuing, and, as it increases in size, ascends over the iliac part of the fascia lata and the femoral arch. Within the canal the hernia is very small, being con- stricted by the unyielding structures which form that passage; but when it has passed beyond the saphenous opening, it enlarges in the loose fatty layers of the groin ; and, as the tumour increases, it extends outwards in the groin towards the iliac spine of the hip-bone. Coverings of the hernia.—The coverings of a femoral hernia in order from within outwards are, the peritoneum (which forms the sac); the septum crurale and the sheath of the femoral vessels. These two structures combined constitute a single very thin covering, known as the fascia propria of the hernia (Cooper). It sometimes happens that the hernia is protruded through an opening in the sheath, which there- fore in that event does not contribute to form the fascia propria. Lastly the hernia is covered by the cribriform fascia, covering the saphenous opening ; the superficial fascia and skin.