BONES OF THE HEAD. 40 ear. It forms a short canal, the meatus audilorius ext emus, directed inwards and a little forwards, narrower in the middle than at its extremities, and leading into the cavity of the tympanum, part of which is seen from the exterior in the macerated bone. It is bounded superiorly by the posterior root of the zygoma, and in the remainder of its circumference chiefly by the external auditory process, a curved uneven border, to which the cartilage of the ear is attached. This process is the thickened outer extremity of the tympanic plate, a lamina one surface of which forms the anterior wall of the external auditory meatus and the tympanum, while the other looks towards the glenoid fossa. The upper margin of the tympanic plate is separated from the glenoid fossa by thq fissure of Glaser, while its lower margin descends as a sharp edge, the vaginal process, which partly surrounds the front of the styloid process at its base. The styloid process is long and tapering, and is directed downwards and forwards. It is placed in front of the digastric fossa, and has immediately behind it the foramen which forms the outlet of the canal of the facial nerve, named stylo-mastoid from its position between the styloid and mastoid processes. A smooth rounded and deep depression, the jugular fossa, lies internal to the styloid process; it is close to the posterior margin of the bone, and completes with the jugular notch of the occipital bone the foramen lacerum posterius. In front and a little to the inside of the jugular fossa is the carotidforamen, the inferior extremity of the carotid canal; and internal to the carotid foramen is a rough surface which gives attachment to the levator palati muscle, and is continued into the rough inner extremity, or apex of the petrous bone. The carotid canal ascends at first perpendicularly, then turns horizontally forwards and inwards, and emerges at the apex, close to the anterior margin. It transmits the internal carotid artery. In the angle between the petrous and squamous portions of the bone is the anterior opening of the Eustachian canal. The posterior surface looks backwards and inwards, and forms part of the posterior fossa in the base of the skull. It presents a large orifice leading into a short canal which is directed outwards, the meatus audi- torius internus. This canal is terminated by a plate of bone, the lamina cribrosa, presenting in the lower part small apertures through which the divisions of the auditory nerve pass, while in its upper part is the com- mencement of the canal called aqueduct of Fallopius, which transmits the facial nerve. This canal takes a somewhat circuitous course through the petrous bone, passing outwards and backwards over the labyrinth of the ear, and then downwards to terminate at the stylo- mastoid foramen. The anterior or upper surface looks upwards and forwards, and forms part of the middle fossa in the base of the skull. A depression near the apex marks the position of the Gasserian ganglion. A narrow groove runs obliquely backwards and outwards to a foramen named the hiatus Fallopiiwhich leads to the aqueduct of Fallopius, and transmits the large superficial petrosal nerve. Farther back is a rounded emi- nence, indicating the situation of the superior semicircular canal. The superior border is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus. The anterior bonin' is very short, and forms at its junction with the squamous part an angle in which is situated the orifice of the Eusta- chian canal, the osseous portion of a tube of the same name, which leads from the pharynx to the tympanum; and above this, partially