Fig. 238. Inguinal Hernia, on tiie Right Side”. the fascia transversalis. •J40 SURGICAL ANATOMY OP HERNIJE. Fig. 238.—A Small Oblique and a Direct transversalis ; 4, on its tendon above a part The peritoneal sac and the subserous membrane which adheres to it the fascia transversalis, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique 1, tendon of the external oblique turned down ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3 of the epigastric artery, which lias been ex- posed by dividing the fascia transversalis • 5, the spermatic cord (its vessels separated) • 6, a bubonocele ; 7, direct hernia protruded at the conjoined tendon of the two deeper muscles, and covered by a prolongation of and transverse muscles, and the in- tercolumnar (external spermatic) fascia derived from the margin of the external abdominal ring, to- gether with the superficial fascia and skin. With regard to the con- joined tendon the hernia may be covered by it, or may pass through an opening in its fibres, or may escape beneath it. The spermatic cord is commonly placed behind the outer part of the hernia. The hernial sac is not, however, in contact with the vessels of the cord. The investments given from the fascia transversalis to those vessels and to the hernia respectively, are interposed. But the point at which the internal inguinal hernia passes through the triangle of Hesselbach is subject to some variation. Instead of pushing directly through the external abdominal ring (the most frequent position), the hernia occasionally enters the inguinal canal nearer to the epigastric artery, and, passing through a portion of the canal to reach the external ring, has therefore a certain degree of obliquity. This form of hernia is frequently called internal oblique inguinal. Direct inguinal hernia is very rarely met with in the female. In the single case observed by Richard Quain as well as in the few cases found recorded in books, the hernia though not inconsiderable in size was still covered by the tendon of the external oblique muscle. FEMORAL HERNIA. A femoral hernia leaves the abdomen at the groin, passing beneath the lower margin of the broad abdominal muscles, and over the anterior border of the hip-bone immediately at the inner side of the large femoral blood-vessels. It takes its course through the innermost compartment of the sheath of the femoral vessels till it reaches the saphenous opening, when it turns forwards through the opening towards the front of the thigh, and is even bent upwards in the groin. The femoral sheath is a somewhat funnel-shaped structure em- bracing the upper parts of the femoral artery and vein. It is wide superiorly, but embraces the vessels closely below. It is formed by tne lining fascim of the abdomen, the transversalis fascia being m rout, and the iliac fascia behind. On removing its anterior wall the shea