AXILLARY LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS. 515 Fig. 326. lymphatics, lying near the commencement of the basilic vein, a little above and in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. The axillary glands are generally ten or twelve in num- ber : they vary, however, con- siderably in their number as well as in their size, in different individuals ; they are mostly placed along the axillary ves- sels, and receive the lympha- tics which ascend from the limb; but a few also lie further forwards on the ser- ratus magnus near the external mammary artery, and beneath the pectoral muscles, and receive the lymphatics from fig. 326.—Superficial Lymphatics of the Breast, SnOULDER, AND UPPER LlMB, FROM BEFORE (after Mascagni, A. T.) i The lymphatics are represented as lying upon the deep fascia. «, placed on the clavicle, points to the external jugular vein ; b, the cephalic vein; c, the basilic vein ; il, radial ; c, median ; /, ulnar vein ; g, great pectoral muscle cut and turned outwards ; 1, superficial lymphatic vessels and glands above the clavicle; 2, those below the clavicle partly joining the foregoing and dipping into the triangu- lar space between the deltoid and pectoral muscles ; 3, lymphatic vessels and glands placed along the border of the axilla and great pectoral muscle; 4, upper brachial and axillary glands and vessels ; 5, two small glands placed near the bend of the arm ; 6, radial lymphatic vessels ; 7, ulnar lymphatic vessels ; 8, 8, palmar arcli of lymphatics; 9, 9', outer and inner sets of vessels. the mamma and muscular walls of the chest; while others incline downwards at the pos- terior boundary of the axilla, and are joined by the lymphatics from the back. From the glands of the axilla efferent lymphatic vessels, fewer in number, but larger in size than the afferent vessels, pro- ceed along the course of the subclavian artery, in some parts twining round it. From the top of the thorax they ascend into the neck close to the subclavian vein, and terminate— those of the left side in the thoracic duct, those of the right side in the right lymphatic duct. Sometimes they unite into a single trunk, which opens separately into the sub- clavian vein near its termination.