475 THE FACIAL VEIN. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The blood returning from the head and neck flows on each side into two principal veins, the external and internal jugular. The veins of the head and neck have generally no valves. The external jugular vein is provided with a valve at its entrance into the subclavian vein, and in most cases with another about the middle of its course : and the internal jugular is also furnished with valves near its junction with the subclavian. These valves, however, are not sufficient to stop the regur- gitation of the blood, or the passage of injections from below upwards. The veins on the exterior of the cranium and face converge and unite, so as to form two trunks, the facial and the temporal veins. The facial vein lies obliquely along the side of the face, extending from the inner margin of the orbit downwards and outwards to the ante- rior border of the masseter muscle. Resting on the same plane as the facial artery, but farther back, and less tortuous, it has very nearly the same relations to contiguous parts. It commences at the side of the root of the nose by a vein formed by the junction of branches from the forehead, eyebrow, and nose, and increases by receiving others during its course. Below the jaw it inclines outwards and backwards, covered by the cervical fascia and the platysma muscle : and soon unites with a large branch of communication derived from the temporal vein, to form the lemporo-maxillary or common facial vein, a short vessel of con- siderable size, which joins obliquely the trunk of the internal jugular. Fig. 303.—View op the Super- Fig. 303. picial Veins op tue Head and Neck. 1, stemo-mastoid muscle ; a, facial vein ; b, temporal vein ; c, transverse facial; cl, posterior auricular ; e, internal maxillary vein ; /, external jugular vein ; g, posterior external jugular ; It, anterior jugular ; i, posterior scapular and suprascapular veins; 1c. internal jugular vein ; l, occi- pital vein ; m, subclavian vein ; above the inner side of the orbit are shown the frontal and supra- orbital veins, and their descend- ing branches to anastomose with the angular or terminal branch of the facial vein. Tributaries.—(«) The fron- talvein commences on the roof of the skull by branches, which descend obliquely inwards up- on the forehead, maintaining communications in their course with the anterior branches of the temporal vein. It descends vertically, parallel with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, with which it is connected by transverse branches, and ends in the angular vein. In some instances the veins of the two sides unite and form a short trunk, which again divides into two branches at the root of the nose. As it descends from the