563 THE RNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. Fig. 349.—View op the Distribution and Connections op the Pneumogastric and Sympathetic Nerves on the Right Side (after Hirsclifeld ancl Leveille). § a, lachrymal gland ; b, sublingual gland ; c, submaxillary gland and facial artery; <1, thyroid gland, pulled forwards by a book; c, trachea, below which is the right bronchus cut across; /, the gullet; g, the stomach, divided near the pylorus; i, trans- verse colon, with some folds of the intestines below. A, heart, slightly turned aside to show the cardiac plexus, &c. ; B, aortic arch, drawn forward by’a hook ; C, innominate artery ; D, subclavian artery, of which a portion has been removed to show the sympathetic ganglia ; E, inferior thyroid artery ; F, a divided part of the external carotid artery, upon which runs a nervous^ plexus ; G, internal carotid emerging from its canal superiorly ; H, thoracic aorta ; K, intercostal vein ; L, pulmonary trunk, the right branch cut; M, superior vena cava ; 0, intercostal artery. 1, ciliary nerves of the eyeball ; 2, branch of the oeulo-motor to the inferior oblique muscle, connected with the ophthalmic ganglion ; 3, 3, 3, the three principal divisions of the trifacial nerve ; 4, ophthalmic ganglion ; 5, spheno-palatine; 6, otic ; 7, submaxillary; 8, sublingual; 9, sixth nerve; 10, facial in its canal, uniting with the spheno-palatine and otic°ganglia; 11, glosso-pharyngeal; 12, right pneumogastric ; 13, left pneumo- gastric spreading on the anterior surface of the stomach ; 14, spinal accessory ; 15, hypo- glossal ; 16, lower nerve of the cervical plexus ; 17, middle nerve of the brachial plexus ; 18, intercostal nerves ; 21, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, con- nected with, 22, the tympanic nerve of Jacobson ; 23, carotid branch of the Vidian nerve ; 24, cavernous plexus ; 25, ophthalmic twig; 26, filament to the pituitary gland; 27, union with the upper cervical nerves; 28, points to the pneumogastric nerve, close to the pharyngeal and carotid branches ; 29, points to the superior laiyngeal nerve, close to the phaiyngeal and inter-cai-otid plexuses ; 30, Laryngeal branch joining the laryngeal plexus ; 31, great sympathetic nerve ; 32, superior cardiac nerve ; 33, middle cervical ganglion ; 34, twig connecting the ganglion with, 35, the recurrent; 36, middle cardiac nerve ; 37, great sympathetic nerve ; 38, inferior cervical ganglion ; below 37, branches from the ganglion, passing round the subclavian and vertebral arteries ; 39, the line from this number crosses the nerves proceeding from the brachial plexus; 40, sympathetic twigs surrounding the axillary artery ; 41, branch of union with the first intercostal nerve ; the line from the letter e, pointing to the trachea, crosses the superior, middle, and inferior cardiac nerves ; 42, cardiac plexus and ganglion; 43, 44, right and left coronary plexuses ; 45, 46, thoracic portion of the great sympathetic nerve and ganglia showing their connections with the intercostal neives; 47, great splanchnic nerve ; 48, semilunar ganglion ; 49, lesser splanchnic ; 50, solar plexus ; 51, union with the pneumo- gastric nerve ; 52, diaphragmatic plexus and ganglion ; 53, coronary plexus ; 54, hepatic ; 55, splenic ; 56, superior mesenteric ; 57, renal plexus. are also derived from the first part of the recurrent branch : they pass inwards on the air-tube, and end in the deep cardiac plexus. The cor- responding branches of the left side come from the left recurrent laryn- geal nerve. Pulmonary branches.—Two sets of pulmonary branches are dis- tributed from the pneumogastric nerve to the lung ; and they reach the root of the liing, one on its fore part, the other on its posterior as- pect. The anterior pulmonary nerves, two or three in number, are of small size. They join with filaments of the sympathetic ramifying on the pulmonary artery, and with these nerves constitute the anterior pulmonary plexus. Behind the root of the lung the pneumogastric nerve becomes flattened, and gives several branches of much larger size than the anterior branches, which, with filaments derived from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, form the posterior pulmonary plexus. Offsets from this plexus extend along the ramifications of the air-tube through the substance of the lung. (Esophageal branches.—The cesophagus within the thorax receives branches from the pneumogastric nerves, both above and below the pulmonary branches. The lower branches are the larger, and are de- rived from the tesophaycal plexus, formed by connecting cords between o o 2