420 THE THORACIC AORTA. called the thoracic aorta ; it extends from the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra on the left side, to the opening between the crura of the diaphragm in front of the last dorsal vertebra. It lies in the back part of the interpleural space or posterior mediastinum, being placed before the spine and behind the root of the left lung and the pericardium : on the left side it is in contact with the corresponding pleura and lung, and close on the right side are the azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the oesophagus. The oesophagus, however, towards the lower part of the thorax, is in front of the artery, and near the diaphragm gets some- what to the left side. The left or small azygos vein crosses behind the thoracic aorta. The branches derived from the thoracic aorta are numerous, but small. They are distributed to the walls of the thorax, and to the viscera contained within it—the latter being much the smaller and least numerous branches. a. Branches to the Viscera :— The pericardiac branches are some very small and irregular vessels which pass forwards and ramify on the pericardium. The bronchial arteries are the proper nutritious arteries of the substance of the lung : they accompany the bronchial tubes in their ramifications through that organ, and they also supply the bronchial glands, and in part the oesophagus. These vessels vary frequently in number, and in their mode of origin. The bronchial artery of the right side arises from the first aortic intercostal artery, or by a common trunk with the left bronchial artery from the thoracic aorta ; on the left side there are generally two bronchial arteries, both of which arise from the thoracic aorta, one near the commencement of that trunk, and the other, named inferior bronchial, lower down. Each artery is usually directed to the back part of the corresponding bronchus, along which it runs, dividing and subdividing with the successive bronchial ramifica- tions in the substance of the lung. Varieties.—The place of origin of the bronchial arteries is liable to much variation. The artery of the right side has been found to arise singly from the aorta, from the internal mammary, or from the inferior thyroid. The bronchial arteries of the two sides have been seen to arise by a common trunk from the subclavian. (Haller.) Two common trunks, each furnishing a branch to the right and left lungs, have been observed in a single case to descend into the thorax after arising, one from the internal mammary, and the other from the superior intercostal artery. (R. Quain, pi. 26, f. 6.) In some cases they arise from the under surface of the arch, instead of from the thoracic aorta. Instances occur of two distinct bronchial arteries for each lung. The oesophageal arteries are variable in size and number. There are usually four or five, which arise from the fore part or right side of the aorta, and run obliquely downwards upon the oesophagus, supplying its coats. Their lower branches anastomose with the ascending offsets of the coronary artery of the stomach and with the phrenic artery, while their upper branches communicate with those of the inferior thyroid artery. Posterior mediastinal branches of the aorta, small and irregular, supply the glands and loose tissue of the posterior mediastinum. b. Parietal Branches to the Thorax. The intercostal arteries arise from the posterior part of the aorta.