BONES OF THE HEAD. 74 CLASSIFIED LIST OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD AND THEIR TYPICAL COMPONENT PARTS*:— 1. BONES FORMING THE CRANIO-FACIAL AXIS. Mesethmoid ; Vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, including the cartilaginous nasal septum, which is partially enclosed by Vomeric; The Vomer. Presphenoid; Anterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone. Basisphenoid; Posterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone, including the sella turcica. Basioccipital; Basilar process of the occipital bone. 2. UPPER OR NEURAL ARCHES, FORMING LATERAL AND UPPER WALLS OF THE CRANIAL CAVITY. Nasals; The nasal bones. Orbito-sphenoids ; The lesser wings of the sphenoid bone. Prontals ; United in the single frontal. Alisphenoids; Great wings of the sphenoid bone with the external pterygoid plates. Parietals ; The parietal bones. Exoccipitals ; Condyloid portions of the occipital bone. Supraoccipital; Tabular part. Interparietal, of some animals, corresponds to the upper part of the foregoing. The temporal bones interposed between the occipitals and sphenoids consist of Periotics, or petro-mastoid bones; The petrous and mastoid portions of the tem- poral bone ; the first including the labyrinth and meatus auditorius intemus. Squamosals, or squamo-zygomatic; The squamous part of the temporal hone with the zygoma, including the articular surface of the lower jaw. Tympanies; The tympanic ring and auditory process with the postglenoid part of the temporal bone. 3. LOWER OR VISCERAL ARCHES COMPLETING THE FACE AND ENCLOSING THE NOSE, MOUTH, AND PHARYNX. Ethmo-turbinals; The lateral masses with the upper and lower turbinated bones of the ethmoid, and the cribriform plates. Lachrymals ; The lachrymal bones. Maxillo-turbinals ; The inferior turbinated bones. Premaxillary, or intermaxillary; The incisor part of the superior maxillaiy bones. Pterygoids ; The internal pterygoid plates. Palatals ; The palate bones. Maxillse ; The superior maxillary bones, excepting the incisor part. Malars; The malar bones. Malleus, Incus, and Stapes; The ossicula auditus or malleus, incus, and stapes. Mandibles ; United in the inferior maxilla or lower jaw. Stylo-hyals with Tympano-hyals (of Flower) ; The styloid process of the temporal bone. Epi-hyals; The stylo-hyoid ligaments. rvmt.o-hvals: The upper or lesser cornua of the hyoid bone. Basi-hyals ; The body of the hyoid bone. Thyro-hyals; The great cornua of the hyoid bone. Branchial Arches ; These follow the preceding, but are only temporary ftotal structures in man and all vertebrate animals, except amphibia and fishes. * The names first given, and printed in block type, are those received in comparative anatomy ; those usually employed in human anatomy follow, and are printed in common type.