267 MUSCLES OF TILE EYELIDS. 11 triangularis oris or depressor anguli oris ; 12, levator menti; 13, on the masseter, ■3 is immediately above the risorius or upper horizontal fibres of the platysma myoides, i and a line from it points to the buccinator ; 14, platysma myoides ; 15, on the upper I part of the sterno-mastoid, points by a line to the posterior belly of the digastric ! muscle ; 15', the sternal tendon of the sterno-mastoid, a part of its clavicular portion I is seen near e : 16, trapezius ; 17, splenius capitis ; +, splenius colli; 18, levator scapulae, 19, sterno-hyoid ; 20, omo-hyoid; 21, pectoralis major, its pectoral part; 21', its. | clavicular part ; 22, deltoid. fibres form nearly concentric curves, and are attached by their extremities at the inner angle of the orbit; 1st, to the edges and anterior surface of the tendo palpebrarum; 2nd, to the surface of the nasal process of the superior maxilla, near the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove; and 3rd, to the internal angular process of the frontal bone. Relations.—The palpebral portion of the muscle consists of thin, pale and slightly curved fibres situated in the eyelids, and which conceal the tarsal carti- lages and the insertion of the levator palpebral superioris ; the orbicular portion, more largely developed, rests on the cheek and margin of the orbit. Superiorly this muscle conceals the corrugator supercilii, with which and the occipito- frontalis it is intimately connected; inferiorly it covers the origin of the elevators of the upper lip, part of the common elevator of the lip and nose, and the lachrymal sac ; and externally it lie3 upon a part of the temporal fascia. The tendon of the orbicularis muscle (tendo palpebrarum), at the inner commissure of the eyelids, is a small white cord which is often ob- scured by the fibres of the muscle, but is rendered apparent by drawing the lids outwards. This tendon is about two lines in length, and half a line in breadth, and is attached to the anterior margin of the lach- rymal groove; thence it runs horizontally outwards to the inner com- missure of the eyelids, where it divides into two thin fibrous lamellm, ■which diverge, and terminate on the tarsal cartilages. One surface of the tendon is subcutaneous; the other crosses the lachrymal sac a little above the centre, and from it a thin but firm fascia is given off, which spreads over the lachrymal sac, and adheres to the margins of the groove which lodges it. The tensor tarsi—(musculus sacci lachrymalis, Horner)—consists of very thin fibres resting on the fascia just mentioned. It is onl}' a deep portion of the inner marginal fibres of the ciliary part of the orbicularis muscle : two slips, one from each eyelid, passing behind tire lachrymal canals, unite on the hinder surface of the lachrymal sac before reaching their attachment on the posterior margin of the lachrymal groove. dne corrugator supercilii is a small, deeply-coloured muscle, nariower below than above, placed at the inner side of the eyebrow. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone; thence its fibres proceed outwards and a little upwards, and end, at the middle of the orbital arch, by becoming blended with hose of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis muscles. lb lot ions. This muscle crosses the supratrochlear branch of the ophthalmic utoT+i 6 accomPanying vessels, as they emerge from the orbit. It rests muscles6 10n^ hone and is covered by the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis TtsV'1 11evatof palpebrse superioris occupies the upper part of the orbit. formqH 0r! ,? *s seen ^section of the upper eyelid, in which it a hroad fibrous expansion which curves downwards, and is