2 INTRODUCTION. Descriptive Anatomy may be treated of in two methods ; viz., the Systematic and the Topographical. In the first or Systematic Anatomy, the several organs and parts of the body are considered in a systematic ordei’, according to their structure, their connection with each other, and their relation to the purposes of life ; while in the second, or Topographical Anatomy, the parts are described in the order of their position or association in the same region of the body. The first method is best adapted for the elementary and complete study of the structure of organs, the second is more immediately useful in the study of particular regions in their relation to medicine 'and surgery. The object of the present work being mainly to serve as a guide for systematic study, the topographical details will be included under and combined with the general descrip- tion of organs. The anatomical description of any organ embraces the consideration of its form, size, position, connection and texture ; the whole of these comprising the structure of the organ. The adult or fully formed condition of the body is commonly assumed as the subject of this description; but it is obvious that a consideration of the structure of the body and its organs in different stages of life is required to render the knowledge of their anatomy complete. The study of the origin and formation of organs in the embryo, known under the names of Embryological Anatomy or Foetal Development, to which a separate chapter will be devoted in this work, is of peculiar importance in indi- cating the general relations of organic structure. The study of anatomy may be viewed in two different aspects ; viz., the Physiological and the Morphological. In connection with the first, anatomy supplies the materials relating to structure from which an explanation is sought of the uses or functions of organs by the physiologist ; and for this purpose the study of Textural Anatomy is of particular service. In connection with the study of Morphology, Descriptive Anatomy investigates and combines the facts relating to structure and relations of organs, from which may be deduced general principles as to the construction of the human body or that of animals. In the determination of these general principles, or laws of Morphology, it is necessary to combine the knowledge of the anatomy of animals with that of man, and both of these with the study of development. PLAN OP ORGANISATION. Vertebrate Type.—The general plan of construction of the human body agrees closely with that which prevails in a certain number of animals, viz., mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibia, and fishes, and is known as the vertebrate type of organisation. The main feature of that type, and that from which its name is derived, belongs to the internal skeleton, and consists in the exis- tence of a number of bones (or cartilaginous substitutes) termed vertebra), which extend in a longitudinal series through the whole trunk of the body, and which by their more solid part, termed centrum or hocly, are so disposed as to form a pillai oi axis, louml which the rest of the parts are arranged with a certain conformity ol structure. At one extremity of this pillar is situated the head, present-