ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 134 attached to both; the direction of the fibres being reversed in eacli successive layer. Some of the fibres also arc nearly horizontal. The central part of the fibro-cartilage is a pulpy and elastic material which, when the pressure which confines it is taken off by cutting through the intervertebral substance, rises up so as to assume a conical form. It is then seen to be of a lobate structure, and, examined under the microscope, exhibits a finely fibrous and homogeneous matrix, with numerous spherical and elliptical cells, some of them resembling carti- lage-corpuscles, others larger and of various appearance. It is now generally admitted that the pulp of the intervertebral disc is a per- sistent part of the chorda dorsalis; homologous, therefore, with those larger vestiges of the chorda dorsalis which occupy the biconical cavities between the bodies of the vertebra; in fishes. According to Luschka, there is present in each disc a synovial cavity, and the lobes of the pulp are synovial villi, similar to those which are to be found in the knee and shoulder joints, but of larger size, and occupying the whole cavity ; and it is worthy of notice that in like manner secondary cavities, developed within the chorda dorsalis, are found in the inter- vertebral substance in many fishes. (Luschka, “ Die Halbgelenke des Menschli- chen Korpers,” Berlin, 1858, p. 84.) A thin cartilaginous layer, incomplete towards the circumference, covers the surfaces of the vertebrae and gives attachment to the discs. Excluding from consideration the first two vertebrae, between which it Fig. 117.—Vertical Antero- Posterior Section through two Lumbar Vertebra:, show- ing THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE Intervertebral Disc. § 1,1, the fibrous oblique bands, which are curved outward ; 2, those which are curved inwards ; 3, the central soft cartilaginous or gelatinous substance : the capsule of the joint between the articular processes is represented. does not exist, the inter- vertebral material forms iu length about a fourth of the movable part of the column. The dorsal part of the column has, in comparison with its length, a much smaller proportion than the cervical or lumbar parts. The discs in the cervical and lumbar regions are thicker in front than behind, and it has been determined that the convexity of those portions of the column is due to them much more than to the bodies of the vertebras, while the arching of the dorsal portion, on the contrary, is rather owing to the shape of the bones. (W. and E. Weber, “ Mechanik der menschl. Gewerkzeuge,” p. 90, et seq., Got- tingen, 1836.) The anterior common ligament is a strong band of fibres, which is placed on the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, and reaches from the axis to the first bone of the sacrum, becoming broader as it descends. It consists of longitudinal fibres which are dense, firm, and well marked. The superficial fibres extend from a given vertebra to the fourth or fifth below it j the fibres beneath these pass over the bodies of several verte- Fig. 117.