THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTEFiY. 4G7 h h 2 anastomose with the dorsal arteries ; and (<7) others which appear in the funow between the middle and outer divisions of the plantar fascia. B. From the. plantar arch are given off the following more important branches, (o') The posterior perforating branches, three in number, pass upwards through the back part of the three outer interosseous spaces, between the heads of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and on reaching the dorsum of the foot inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. Fig. 299. Fig. 299.—Deep view op the Arteries in the Sole of the ItiGnT Foot (from Tiedemann). g All the muscles have been removed, a, the calcaneal tuberosity ; h, the scaphoid bone and end of the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament ; c, to a, calcaneo-cuboid ligament ; d, its deep part; e, scaphoido-cuneiform ligament; f, one of the sesamoid bones of the great toe ; 1, posterior tibial artery dividing into the plantar arteries ; 2, 2, external plantar artery ; 2', 2", deep plantar arch termi- nating by communication with the dorsal artery of the foot ; 3, 3', internal plantar artery ; 3", its communica- tion with the internal digital of the great toe; 4, branches of the internal plantar to the inside of the foot ; 5, 5', first digital or external plantar branch of the fifth toe ; 6, second plantar digital artery ; 6', interval of the division of the same between the fourth and fifth toes ; 7, third plantar digital; 7', its distribution to the third and fourth toes ; 8, fourth plantar digital; 8', its dis- -tribution to the second and third toes ; 9, fifth plantar digital; 9', its distribution to the first and second toes ; 10, internal plantar digital branch of the great toe ; at the upper numbers, 6, 7, and 8, the posterior per- forating branches of the interosseous arteries are par- tially indicated ; at 2", the large communication between the plantar arch and the dorsalis pedis artery ; above 6', 7', and 8', are situated the anterior perforating arteries, not represented in the figure; 11, and 12, calcaneal branches of the plantar and posterior peroneal arteries. (h) The digital branches are four in number. The first digital branch inclines outwards from the outer- most part of the plantar arch, opposite the end of the fourth metatarsal space, crosses under cover of the abductor minimi digiti, and runs along the-outer border of the phalanges of the little toe. The second digital branch passes for- wards along the fourth metatarsal space, and near the cleft between the fourth and fifth toes divides into two vessels, which course along the contiguous borders of those toes, and end on the last phalanges. The third digital branch is similarly disposed of on the fourth and thud toes. The fourth ends in like manner on the third and second toes. The digital artery which supplies the opposed sides of the first and second toes, and that which runs on the inner side of the first toe, arise deeply between the first and second metatarsal bones, usually from that part of the arch which is formed by the end of the dorsal artery of the foot. Thus, as in the fingers, collateral arteries pass along the sides of the flexor surface of each of the toes. Near the base of the last phalanx these inosculate so as to form an arch, from the convexity of which minute vessels pass forwards to the extremity of the toe, and to the matrix of the nail. (e) An anterior perforating branch is sent upwards by each of the digital arteries of the three outer interspaces near its bifurcation, to communicate with the corresponding digital branch of the metatarsal artery of the dorsum of the foot. Varieties.—The posterior perforating branches, which are usually very small