492 THE SPINAL VEINS. behind the bodies of the vertebree in the whole length of the canal: d. The posterior longitudinal veins, situated within the canal on the fore part of the arches of the vertebrae: e. The veins of the spinal cord. There are likewise branches of communication, some of which connect all the other sets together, and some which bring them into connection with the general venous system. (Breschet, “ Essai sur les Yeines du Racliis” 4to; “Traite Anatomique sur le Systeme Ycineux,” fob, 1829 ; Cloquet, “ Traite d’Anatomie descriptive,” &c.) a.—The dorsal veins. The blood from the muscles and integument along the back of the spine is returned by a series of short veins, which ramify upon the arches and spinous processes of the vertebras. They run forwards close to the spinous processes, and on reaching the in- terval between the arches of the vertebras, pierce the ligamenta sub- flava, and terminate in a venous plexus within the canal. Towards the outer part of the intervertebral grooves other veins arise, which pass obliquely forwards, through the intertransverse spaces, in company with the posterior branches of the lumbar and intercostal arteries, and open into the veins which accompany those vessels. Fig. 314. Fig. 314, A and B.—Horizontal and Vertical Sections of the Lower Dorsal Vertebrae, SHOWING THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL VEINS of the Seine (after Brescliet). § a, spinous process; b, transverse process ; c, liody ; d, spinal canal; 1, anterior external veins of the body; 2, posterior external veins of tlie vertebral column communicating with tlie internal and forming a plexus over the lamina; and pro- cesses ; 3, the posterior, and 4, the anterior in- ternal plexus of veins of the vertebral canal; 5, tlie internal veins of the body joining the internal spinal veins ; 6, the lateral veins, which are joined by the internal and external spinal veins, and themselves unite with the intercostal. 1).—The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae (vense basis vertebrarum, —Dupuytren) are comparatively large vessels contained in the canals within the bodies of the vertebrae; the arteries which accompany them being very small. They anastomose on the front ot. the bones with some of the superficial veins ; and the trunk of each, having reached the spinal canal through the foramen in the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra, divides into two branches, which diverge and terminate in the large spinal veins behind the bodies of the vertebrm. c The anterior longitudinal spinal veins.— Tlie blood collected bv the different vessels here described is poured into two large yems, or rather tortuous venous canals, which extend, one on each side, a ong the whole length of the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebras. These vessels "(the great spinal veins of Breschet) are alternately con- stricted and enlarged, the constricted points corresponding^ith he intervertebral foramina, where they are drawn forwards, and bound