102 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. anterior extremity, arches backwards to the upper part of the great sciatic notch, while the other, the inferior curved line, shorter and less strongly marked, extends from the space between the anterior spinous processes to the middle of the great sciatic notch. The curved space between the crest and the superior curved line, broad behind and pointed in front, gives attachment to the gluteus medius muscle, while that between the two curved lines gives attachment to the gluteus minimus. The internal surface of the ilium is divided into three parts. The anterior of these, the largest, is called the iliac fossa; it is concave and smooth, and towards the middle of it the bone is very thin. The posterior part is subdivided, presenting inferiorlv, for cartilaginous articulation with the sacrum, the smooth but uneven auricular surface, broad in front and extending to the posterior inferior spine behind ; and superiorly a more uneven and rough surface for the attachment of ligaments. The third part, entering into the forma- tion of the true pelvis, is not distinguished by any mark in the adult from the ischium and os pubis ; it is separated from the iliac fossa by a smooth border, the iliac portion of the iliopectineal line, which extends from the auricular surface to the pubic spine. Fig. 89.-—Right Os Innominatum, FROM THE INNER OR PELVIC SURFACE. (A. T.) 1 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17, and IS, indicate the same parts as in the preceding figure ; 19, iliac fossa ; 20, ilio-pectineal line ; 21, auricu- lar cartilaginous sacro-iliac surface; 22, rough tuberculated surface for the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments ; 23, oval surface of the symphysis pubis ; 24, spinous process ; 25, angle of the os pubis ; between 24 and 25, the crest; between 17 and 20, the pelvic surface of the ilium. The os pubis forms the anterior wall of the pelvis, and bounds the obturator foramen in the upper half of its extent. At its outer and upper extremity it forms a part of the acetabulum ; at its inner extremity it pre- sents an elongated oval sur- face, articulating by fibro- cartilage with the bone of the opposite side, its junction with which is called the symphysis pubis. The part which passes downwards and outwards below the symphysis is called the inferior or descending ramus, the upper part is called the superior or ascending ramus, and the flat portion between the rami may be distinguished as the body. The deep or pelvic surface of the os pubis is smooth ; the outer sur- face is roughened near the symphysis by the attachments of muscles. At the superior extremity of the symphysis is the angle of the pubis, and extending outwards from this, on the superior border, is the