249 GASTROCNEMIUS MUSCLE. The gastrocnemius muscle arises by two, thick tendinous heads from the condyles of the femur, and ends below.in the tendo Achlllis. The •Fi". 193.— Superficial Muscles op the Leo, seen Fig. 193. prom behind (after Bourgery). 1 lower outer part of the vastus muscle , biceps flexor cruris ; 3, semitendinosus , 4, semi membranosus ; 5, gracilis ; 6, sartorius ; 7, outer, ant 8, inner head of the gastrocnemius; 9, . placed m the popliteal space, points to the plantaris ; 9 , its thin tendon inside the tendo Achillis ; 10, the fibres of the soleus descending to the flat tendon, which joining with that of the gastrocnemius, forms + + the tendo Achillis ; 11, peroneus longus ; 12, peioneus brevis; 13, flexor longus digitorum ; 14, tibialis posticus ; 15, is placed on the lower part of the fibula, and points to the lower fibres of the flexor longus pollicis, the teudon of which is seen descending over the tibia at 15'. outer tendon of origin is attached to a depression on the outer side of the ex- ternal condyle, above the groove for the popliteus muscle, and also to the upper and back part of the same condyle. The inner tendon is attached in a horizontal line to an impression above the back part of the in- ternal condyle, and to a small part of the ridge running to the linea aspera. The muscular fibres descending from the two heads remain separated by a vertical groove on the surface, but those next the middle meet at an angle on a tendinous structure below. The fibres of the superior tendons spread out upon the surface of the mus- cle ; the inferior tendon lies on the deep surface of the muscular mass, and is con- tinued upwards in a thin aponeurosis with parallel fibres, which glide against the soleus: between the superficial tendon of each head and the deep common tendon, the greater number of the muscular fibres run obliquely downwards and forwards. The lower edge of each muscular part presents a convexity downwards ; the inner descending furthest. A synovial bursa, usually communicating with the knee-joint, lies beneath the inner head of origin, and separates it from the tendon ot the semimembranosus muscle. In the outer head a sesamoid fibro- cartnage is sometimes met with over the outer condyle of the femur, which is occasionally found ossified. 1delations. The beads of the gastrocnemius muscle form the inferior boundaries 0 e popliteal space, and are placed between the hamstring muscles : the pero- nea nerve is lodged between the external head and the biceps. The gastrocne- mius conceals the popliteus, plantaris and soleus muscles, with the popliteal