THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES AND GANGLIA. G30 (ft) The filaments connected with the Gasserian ganglion of the fifth nerve proceed sometimes from the carotid plexus, at others from the cavernous. O') The deep branch of the Vidian nerve passes backwards to the carotid plexus, and after leaving the Vidian canal, lies in the cartilaginous substance which closes the foramen lacerum medium. Valentin describes nerves as furnished to the dura mater Horn the carotid plexus. Cavernous plexus.—The cavernous plexus, named from its position in the sinus of the same name, is placed below and rather to the inner side of the highest turn of the internal carotid artery. Besides giving branches on the artery, it communicates with the third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth cranial nerves. Branches.—(a) The filament which joins the third nerve comes into connec- tion with it close to the point of division of that nerve. (ft) The branch to the fourth nerve, which may be derived from either the cavernous or the carotid plexus, joins the nerve where it lies in the wall of the cavernous sinus. (c) The filaments connected with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve are supplied to its inner surface. One of them is continued forwards to the lenti- cular ganglion, either in connection with or distinct from the nasal nerve. 2. pharyngeal nerves and plexus.—These nerves arise from the inner part of the ganglion, and are directed obliquely inwards to the side of the pharynx. Opposite the middle constrictor muscle they unite with branches of the pneumogastric and glosso-pharyngeal nerves ; and by their union with those nerves the pharyngeal plexus is formed. Branches emanating from the plexus are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. 3. upper cardiac nerve.—Each of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic furnishes a cardiac branch, the three being named respec- tively the upper, middle, and lower cardiac nerves. These branches are continued singly, or in connection, to the large prevertebral centre (cardiac plexus) of the thorax. Their size varies considerably, and where one branch is smaller than common, another will be found to be increased in size, as if to compensate for the defect. There are some differences in the disposition of the nerves of the right and left sides. The upper cardiac nerve (n. cardiacus superficialis) of the right side proceeds from two or more branches of the ganglion, with, in some instances, an offset from the cord connecting the first two ganglia. In its course down the neck the nerve lies behind the carotid sheath, in contact with the longus colli muscle ; and it is placed in front of the lower thyroid artery and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Entering the thorax, it passes in some cases before, in others behind the subclavian artery, and is directed along the innominate artery to the back part of the arch of the aorta, where it ends in the deep cardiac plexus, a few small filaments continuing also to the front of the great vessel.’ Some branches accompany the inferior thyroid artery to be dis- tributed to the thyroid body. In its course downwards this cardiac nerve is repeatedly connected with other branches of the sympathetic, and with the pneumo-gastric nerve. Thus about the middle of the neck it is joined by some filaments from the external laryngeal nerve; and, rather lower down, by one or more filaments from the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve ; lastly, on entering the chest, it joins with the recurrent laryngeal.