238 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. distinguished one from the other only by the arrangement of their n ores, cover the whole of the anterior and lateral surfaces of the tlii«L bone, from which they arise. ° a. The rectus femoris muscle ex- tended in a straight line from the pelvis to the patella, arises by two tendons, one of which is attached to the anterior inferior spinous pro- cess of the ilium, and the other united to the first within an inch of that point, takes origin from the groove on the dorsum ilii above the brim of the acetabulum. From the prolonga- tion of the tendon so formed the mus- cular fibres arise pennateJy, and, turn- ing outwards and backwards as they descend, are inserted in a similar manner into the tendon below, the superior tendon being prolonged on the anterior, the inferior tendon on the posterior surface of the muscle. The inferior tendon forms a broad band inserted into the upper surface of the patella. Relations.—Superiorly this muscle is covered by the tensor vagina; femoris. iliacus, and sartorius muscles: further down it is covered only by fascia. The acetabu- lar tendon lies beneath the gluteus mini- mus. The muscle rests upon the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, the insertion of the ilio-psoas, the crureus, and parts of the vasti muscles. Behind it also pass the external circumflex artery and a part of the anterior crural nerve. Fig. 1S9. Fig. 189.—Deep Muscles ok the Frost of the Thigh. (A. T.) ^ a, anterior superior, and b, anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium ; c, outer and upper part of the great trochanter ; d, sym. physis pubis ; c, patella ; f, inner side of the knee-joint and internal lateral ligament; « head of the fibula ; 1, the gluteus medius’; •> the gluteus minimus ; 3, tendon of the rectus’ dividing above into its two portions ; 4, points to the cut tendon of insertion of the ili0. psoas muscle ; 5, part of the obturator ex- temus and quadratus femoris ; 6, pectincus • 7, part of the adductor brevis; 8, adductor magnus ; 9, vastus internus ; 9', its continu- ation down on the outer side ; 10, crureus* 11, vastus externus ; 12, tendon of the rectus- 13, lower part of the slip of the fascia lata by which the tensor vaginae femoris is inserted into the tibia and fibula. b. The vastus externus arises by ail extensive aponeurosis attached