591 BRANCHES OF THE MEDIAN NERVE. i ulnaris and part of the deep flexor of the fingers, are supplied from \ this nerve. a. The branches, for the superficial muscles are separate twigs given off from , the nerve below or near the elbow-joint, but the branch furnished to the pronator ! teres often arises above the joint. b. Anterior interosseous nei've.—This is the longest branch of the median nerve, and it supplies the deeper’ muscles of the forearm. Commencing at the j upper part of the forearm, beneath the superficial flexor of the fingers, it passes i downwards with the anterior interosseous artery on the interosseous membrane, ; and between the long flexor of the thumb and the deep flexor of the fingers, to i the pronator quadratus muscle, in which it ends. c. The cutaneous palmu r branch pierces the fascia of the forearm close to the annular ligament, and descending over that ligament, ends in the integument of l the palm about the middle : being connected by a twig with the cutaneous palmar branch of the ulnar nerve. It distributes some filaments over the ball of the thumb, which communicate with twigs of the radial or the external cuta- : neous nerve. B. Branches in the hand :— a. Branch to muscles of the thumb.—This short nerve subdivides into branches i for the abductor, the opponens, and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis : muscle. b. Digital nerves.—These are five in number, and belong to the thumb, and i the fingers as far as the outer side of the ring-finger. As they approach the ■ clefts between the fingers, they are close to the integument in the intervals I between the longitudinal divisions of the palmar fascia. Thefr.st and second nerves lie along the sides of the thumb ; and the former (the outer one) is connected with the radial nerve upon the ball of the thumb. The third destined for the radial side of the index finger, gives a muscular branch to the first or most external lumbricalis muscle. The fourth supplies the second lumbricalis, and divides into branches for the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers. The fifth, the most internal of the digital nerves, is connected by a crossing- twig with the ulnar nerve, and di-sides to furnish branches to the adjacent sides of the ring and middle fingers. Fig. 362*.—Distribution of the Digital Nerves (from Hirsclrfekl and Leveille). A 1, palmar collateral nerve ; 2, its final palmar distribution ; 3, its dor-sal or ungual distribution, and between these numbers the network of terminal filaments ; 4, collateral dorsal nerve ; 5, uniting twigs passing between the dorsal and palmar digital nerves. t Each digital nerve divides at the end of the finger into two branches, one of which supplies the ball on the fore part of the finger ; the other ramifies in the pulp beneath the nail. Branches pass from each nerve forwards and backwards to the integument of the finger ; and one larger than the rest inclines backwards by tire side of the first phalanx of the finger, and, after joining the dorsal digital nerve, ends in the integument over the last phalanx. Summary.—The median nerve gives cutaneous branches to the palm, and to three and a half fingers. It supplies the pronator muscles, the flexors of the carpus and the long flexors of the fingers (except the ulnar flexor of the carpus, and part of the deep flexor of the fingers), likewise the outer set of the short muscles of the thumb, and two lumbricales.