MUSCLES OF THE FERINvEUM. 32S The levator ani arises in front from the posterior surface of the pubis, near the symphysis and midway between its upper and lower Fig. 228. Fig. 228. — Superficial view 0p the Muscles of the Peiiin.f.um in THE Male (modified from Bourgery). (A. T.) \ a, crest of the puhis ; b, coccyx • c, placed on the tuberosity of the' ischium, points by the line to the greater sacro-sciatie ligament; x, the anus ; 1, placed on the spongy body of the urethra in front of the bulbo-cavernosus muscles; 2, the central point of the perinseum; 3, ischio-cavernosus ; 4, transversus perinan ; 5, levator ani; from 2 toi, elliptical sphincter of the anus ; sur- rounding x , is the circular sphincter; 0, coccygeus muscle; 7, adductor longus ; 8, gracilis ; 9, adductor magnus; 10, semitendinosus and biceps; 11, on the left side, the gluteus maximus entire ; 11', the same cut on the right side, so as to expose a part of the coccygeus muscle. borders ; behind from the spine of the ischium, and between those points from the pelvic fascia along the line of attachment of the obturator fascia. Some of its fibres are also traceable upwards in the substance of the pelvic fascia above the level of the obturator. From this exten- sive origin the fibres of the levator proceed downwards and inwards towards the middle line of the floor of the pelvis. Its posterior fasciculi are inserted upon the side of the lower end of the coccyx ; the bundles immediately in front of the coccyx unite in a median raphe with those of the opposite sides as far forward as the margin of the anus ; the middle and larger portion of the muscle is prolouged upon the lower part of the rectum, where it is connected with the fibres of the external sphincter, and slightly with those of the internal; and lastly, the anterior muscular bundles pass between the rectum and the genito- urinary passages, and, descending upon the side of the prostate, unite beneath the neck of the bladder, the prostate, aud the neighbouring part of the urethra, with corresponding fibres from the muscle of the oppo- site side, and blend also with those of the external sphincter and deep transverse perineal muscles. The anterior portion of the levator ani, which arises from the ramus of the puhis, close to the symphysis and above the pubic arch, and also from the adjacent fascim, is sometimes separated at its origin by areolar tissue from the rest of the muscle. From this circumstance, and from its connection with the prostate gland, it was described by Santorini, and since by Albinus and Soemmerring, as a distinct muscle, under the name of the levator prostata. Its fibres pass backwards parallel with the middle line. Relations. The upper or pelvic surface of the levator ani is in contact with the recto-vesical fascia, the capsule of the prostate, and the lower end of the