391 THE INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. : branches into which the artery divides, musculo-phrenic, inclines out- i wards along the margin of the thorax; while the other, under the name of superior epigastric, continues onwards to the abdomen in the { original direction of the trunk. The internal mammary artery is ' covered at its origin by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, , and is crossed in front by the phrenic nerve. In the chest it lias the 3 costal cartilages and the internal intercostal muscles in front, and lies at i first upon the pleura ; but lower down it is separated from the pleura by j the triangularis stemi muscle. This artery has two companion veins, i which are united into a single trunk at the upper part of the chest. Branches.—The branches of this artery are numerous, and are distributed I chiefly to the walls of the chest and abdomen. (rt) The superior phrenic or conies tiervi phreniei, a very slender but long branch, I arises high in the chest, and descends with the phrenic nerve between the I pleura and the pericardium, to the diaphragm, in which it is distributed, anasto- ( mosing with offsets from the musculo-phrenic and with the inferior phrenic I arteries from the abdominal aorta. (b) The mediastinal or thymic branches, of very small size, ramify in the loose 0 connective tissue of the mediastinal space, and supply the thymus body or its 1 remains. Pericardiac branches are given off directly to the upper part of the 1 pericardium, the lower part of which receives some from the musculo-phrenic i division. Branches named sternal are also supplied to the triangularis stemi : muscle, and to both surfaces of the sternum. (c) The anterior intercostal arteries, two in. each space, arise from the internal a mammary, either separately, or by a trunk common to the two, which soon t divides. The arteries pass outwards, at first between the pleura and the internal ►: intercostal muscles, and afterwards between the two layers of intercostals ; they , lie, one near the upper and one near the lower rib, in each of the npper five or I six intercostal spaces, and inosculate with the corresponding intercostal branches I derived from the aortic intercostals. These branches supply the intercostal and 4 pectoral muscles, and give some offsets to the mamma and integument. (d) The anterior or perforating branches pass forwards from the internal j mammary artery through from four to six intercostal spaces, and turning out- | wards ramify partly in the pectoralis major, and partly in the integument on the i front of the chest. Those placed nearest to the mammary gland supply that R organ, and in the female they are of comparatively large size, especially during 4 lactation. Some offsets ramify on the sternum. if) The musculo-phrenic artery, the outer of the two branches into which the ■j internal mammary artery divides, inclines downwards and outwards behind the I cartilages of the false ribs, perforating the attachment of the diaphragm at the rf eighth or ninth rib, and becoming gradually reduced in size as it reaches the last intercostal space. It gives branches backwards into the diaphragm ; others, i which pass outwards to form the anterior intercostals of each space, and are l disposed precisely like those which are derived higher up from the main internal mammary ; and some which descend into the abdominal muscles. if) The abdominal branch or superior epigastric artery of the internal mam- u mary, descending into the wall of the abdomen, lies behind the rectus, between the muscle and its sheath ; and afterwards, entering the muscle, terminates in its substance, at the same time anastomosing with the epigastric artery. It also supplies twigs to the broad muscles of the belly, to the skin, and to the dia- n phragm ; and one runs forwards upon the side and front of the xiphoid cartilage, jj where it anastomoses with that of the opposite side. Varieties. —The internal mammary is occasionally found connected at its I origin with the thyroid axis, or with the scapular arteries—these being detached I from the thyroid. It occasionally springs from the second or third part of the | subclavian artery (the latter being the more frequent position of the two). In veiy rare instances it has been found arising from the axillary, the innominate, -ti or the aorta.