332 MUSCLES OF TIIE PERINiEUM. Fig. 231. bulc; again approaching each other in front, they become narrow, and Fig. 231.—Muscles of the Perineum r5 the Female. (A. T.) £ a, clitoris ; b, crus clitoridis ; c, is placed in the vestibule above the orifice of the urethra ; d, vagina ; x , anus ; c, coccyx • 1, external sphincter ani muscle • 2 sphincter vaginae; 2',' a few of its fibres prolonged to the clitoris ; 3, levator ani • 4, on the left ischial tuberosity, points to the transversus perinaei (the inner fibres of this muscle are represented too far forwards in the figure) ; 5, 6, isehio-cavemosus ; 7, gracilis; 8, adductor magnus and semi- tendinosus, &c. ; 9, gluteus maximus. are inserted upon the corpora caver- nosa of the clitoris, a fasciculus crossing over these and including the vena dorsalis. The two halves of this elliptical muscle appear to correspond strictly to those of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle in the male. A deep transverse muscle, corresponding to part of the constrictor urethrae of the male, has been described as resting on the pubic surface of the female urethra. THE MORPHOLOGY OP THE FASCI.® AND MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. Fasciae.—There is a general correspondence in the relation of the deep fascia to the skeleton and masses of the trunk muscles throughout vertebrate animals. In its simplest and lowest form the general investing fascia is prolonged from the surface towards the skeleton in four places, viz., two median, which have been called respectively the neural and haemal septa, and two lateral, one on each side, running towards the transverse processes of the vertebra. The layers of the haemal septum are in close contact in the caudal region, but they are separated and somewhat complicated in the rest of the trunk by the interpo- sition of the visceral cavity between them. In man and the higher animals the dorsal part of the general investing fascia is represented by the tendinous attachments of the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, and serrati postici muscles, and by the vertebral aponeurosis and deep temporal fascia, while the deep fascia of the side and front of the trunk, neck, and head and the aponeurotic sheath of the limbs correspond with its ventral portion. The neural septum remains as the median fascial interval of the dorsal spinal muscles, ligamentum nuchas, &c. The haemal septum partly constitutes the linea, alba, and is elsewhere separated into two as an investment of the visceral cavity, forming the transversalis, iliac, and pelvic fasciae. The lateral septum, which is strongly developed in fishes and amphibia, is only seen at all clearly in the middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis of man and the higher animals, being in them situated much nearer the dorsal than the ventral aspect of the body. This difference of position is coincident with the greater development of the ventro-lateral muscles and the limbs in the higher than in the lower vertebrates. Muscles.—The dorso-lateral muscle consists of fibres which more than any others retain their original segmented character and longitudinal direction. It is represented in man by the mass of muscles, the chief of which is the erector spina;, which lies in the vertebral groove of the back, and which, arising from the lower vertebrae, splits up as it passes forwards to be inserted into other vertebrae, the ribs and the skull. It may be divided into three sets of muscles, characterized, by the different direction of tiieir fibres. The first set consist of those which ran