325 ABDOMINAL AND PERINEAL FA SOLE. vessels lie in front of this part of the iliac fascia. To the outer side of those vessels, the fascia turns forwards to he connected with Poupart’s ligament and the fascia transversalis, as alieady described ; to. the innei side of the femoral vein it is attached to the ilio-pectineal line, along with the fascia lata ; and between these tv o points, namely, behind the femoral vessels, it continues downwards ovei the margin ot the pelvis, forming the back part of the sheath of those vessels. The psoas parvus is closely connected with the iliac fascia, by means of an expansion of its tendon. At the back part of the abdomen there is also a thin but strong fascia covering the quadratus lumborum muscle and forming the anterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis. It is attached at the outer border of the quadratus to the middle layer ot the aponeurosis, and at its inner border to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra. Superiorly it forms two strong bands, the ligamenta arcuata of the diaphragm already described, and interiorly it is attached to the crest of the ilium. The middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis consists of strong fibrous bundles which arc attached to the posterior layer at the outer margin of the erector spinas. It intervenes between that muscle and the quadratus, and is attached internally by three or four slips to the tips of the lumbar transverse processes. It gives origin at its outer part to the middle fibres of the transversalis abdominis muscle. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE PERINAEUM AND PELVIS. Fasciae of the PerinvETTSi— Superficial Fascia.—In the posterior half of the perimeum the subcutaneous fat is continued deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, the pyramidal space intervening between the obtu- rator fascia and the levator ani muscle. In the anterior half of the perineum, beneath the subcutaneous fat, is placed a special layer of fascia, continuous with the dartos, the proper superficial perineal fascia, sometimes called fascia of Colics. This fascia is bound down on each side to the margin of the pubic arch as far back as the ischial tuber- osity ; posteriorly, along a line from the ischial tuberosity to the central point of the peringeum, it turns round the posterior margin of the transyersus perinan muscle to join the subpubic fascia, to be presently described. From its deep surface likewise, an incomplete septum in the middle line dips down to the urethra and passes forwards into the scrotum. It thus happens that air blown in beneath the proper perineal fascia on one side passes forwards and distends the scrotum to a certain extent on that side ; it may then penetrate to the other also, and if injected with sufficient force may reach the front of the abdomen, and travel upwards beneath the superficial fascia; but it neither passes backwards to the posterior half of the perinseum nor down upon the thighs. The same course is followed by urine or matter extravasated beneath the proper perineal fascia. Ihe deep perineal or subpubic fascia is stretched across the pu )ic arch on the deep surface of the crura of the penis and the bulb ° ,ie urethra. It consists of two distinct layers of strong fibrous mem lane, separated by intervening structures. The anterior layer, or 1 mnHular ligament of the urethra, attached to the inferior margin of the