205 biceps flexor cubiti. inserted into a supracondylar process. The middle division of the muscle is most constant in man : but is generally accompanied by a part of the third ; the musculo-cutaneous nerve passing between them. The first and third constitute the most marked varieties in man, and all three are found m various forms and degrees of development in different animals. The internal brachial ligament of Struthers isTa fibrous band connected with the inferior part of this muscle. (John Wood, on Hum. Muse. Variations, &c., Joum. of Anat. vol. i. p. 15.) Fig. 172. Fig. 172.—Deep view of the Muscles of the Right Shoul- der and Arm, from before, (A. T.) j a, b, outer half of the divided clavicle ; c, coracoid process; d, upper, and e, lower triangular space left at the upper and lower angles of the scapula on its anterior sur- face to which the serratus magnus is attached ; /, great tuberosity of the humerus ; g, surface of the humerus below the bicipital groove; h, outer, and i, iuner condylar eminenceof the humerus; 1, cut coracoid head, and 1', cut glenoid tendon of the biceps mus- cle ; 2, folded tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major, of which one portion is seen running up to the bicipital'groove ; 3, lower cut end of the deltoid ; 4,coraco-brachi- alis ; 5, subscapularis ; 5', its insertion into the lesser tuberosity; 6, teres major; 6', its insertion behind and below the latissimus dorsi; 7, part of the latissimus dorsi; +, slip from the inferior angle of the scapula ; 7', insertion of the tendon, after winding round the teres major, in front of and higher than that muscle ; 8, 8', brachialis anticus ; 9, long head of the triceps, at the upper part seen in the interval between the teres major and subscapularis muscles ; 9', inner head ; 10, flexor communis digitorum pro- fundus ; 11, tendon of insertion of the biceps. The biceps flexor cubiti muscle has two heads of origin : one of these, the internal or short head, arises conjointly with the coraco- brachialis from the coracoid process of the scapula by a tendon which is soon continued into muscle ; the other, the long head, arises by a rounded tendon from the upper border of the glenoid fossa and glenoid ligament, within the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and this tendon, passing over the head of the humerus, leaves the joint by the bicipital groove, gradually enlarging into the fleshy head as it descends. The two muscular heads, lying side by side, then unite to form an elongated and thick belly, occupying the middle and lower part of the arm : a