THE CRANIAL NERVES. 530 a. The branch In the ophthalmic ganglion (radix Ionga ganglii ciliari«), very slender, and about half an inch long, arises generally between the heads of the external rectus : it lies on the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the upper and back part of the ophthalmic ganglion, constituting its long root. This small branch is sometimes joined by a filament from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, or from the upper branch of the third nerve. t k The long ciliary nerves, two or three in number, are situated on the inner side of the optic nerve ; they join one or more of the nerves from the ophthalmic ganglion (short ciliary), and after perforating the sclerotic coat of the eye, are continued between it and the choroid to the ciliary muscle, the cornea, and the iris. c. The infratrochlear branch runs forwards along the inner side of the orbit below the superior oblique muscle, and parallel to the supratrochlear nerve, from which it receives, near the pulley of that muscle, a filament of connection. The branch is then continued below the pulley to the inner angle of the eye, and ends in filaments which supply the orbicular muscle of the lids, the caruncula, and the lachrymal sac, as well as the integument of the eyelids and side of the nose. In the cavity of the nose the nasal nerve ends by dividing into the following branches. d. The branch to the nasal septum extends to the lower part of the partition between the nasal fossa3, supplying the pituitary membrane near the fore part of the septum. e. The superficial branch (externus seu lateralis) descends in a groove on the inner surface of the nasal bone ; and after leaving the nasal cavity between that bone and the lateral cartilage of the nose, it is directed downwards to the tip of the nose, beneath the compressor naris muscle. While within the nasal fossa, this branch gives two or three filaments to the fore part of its outer wall, which extend as far as the lower spongy bone. The cutaneous part is joined by a fila- ment of the facial nerve. Varieties.—The frontal may give off a long slender accessory infra-trochlear (Turner, loc. cit.). Branches of the nasal have been described as entering the levator palpebrae superioris. Luschka describes, also, a sphcno-athmoidal branch of the nasal, which passes through the posterior ethmoidal foramen and ramifies in the mucous membrane of the sphenoidal sinus, and of the posterior ethmoidal cells. Summabt.—The first division of the fifth nerve is altogether sensory in function. It furnishes branches to the ball of the eye and the lachrymal gland; to the mucous membrane of the nose and eyelids ; to the integument of the nose, the upper eyelid, the forehead, and the upper part of the hairy scalp ; and to the muscles above the middle of the circumference of the orbit. Some of the cutaneous and muscular filaments join branches of the facial nerve, and the nerve itself commu- nicates with the sympathetic. Ophthalmic Ganglion. There are four small ganglia connected with the divisions of the fifth nerve : the ophthalmic ganglion with the first, Meckel’s ganglion with the second, and the otic and submaxillary ganglia with the third. These ganglia, besides receiving branches from the sensory part of the fifth, are each connected with a motor nerve from the third, the fifth, or the facial, and with twigs from the sympathetic ; and the nerves thus joining the ganglia are named their roots. The ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion (gang, semilunarc, vel ciliare) serves as a centre for the supply of nerves motor, sensory, and sympa- thetic—to the eyeball. It is a small reddish body, compressed laterally and somewhat four-sided. It is situated at the back ol the oibit,