BOXES OF TIIE nEAD. 58 The interparietal, or sagittal suture, connects the two parietal bones : it is continued in children, and occasionally in adults, by a suture between the two halves of the frontal bone, the frontal suture. In the much elongated forms of skull the sagittal suture is often found par- tially or wholly obliterated by ossification. The temporoparietal suture consists of two very distinct parts, the squamous suture, arched in direction, in which the scale-like margin of the squamous portion of the temporal bone overlays the similar margin of the parietal, and the paneto-mastoict suture, which is thick and serrated. The spheno-parietal suture, between the parietal bone and great wing of the sphenoid, is about half an inch in extent. It is absent only in very rare cases, and then the frontal and temporal bones come into contact. The name of transverse has by some anatomists been given to the series of sutures which unite the facial and orbital margins of the frontal to other hones, as the malar, sphenoid, ethmoid, lachrymal, maxillary, and nasal. The lines of union between the other bones, though more or less serrated, have not received any special designation, but may be named from the hones between which they run, as for example, petro-occipital, petro-sphenoid, inter-maxillary, palato- pterygoid, &c. Ossa Triquetra.—Separate pieces of bone are found in many skulls, interposed between the cranial bones. They are called ossa triquetra, ossa Wormii, ossa suturarum, See. They are of irregular form, with margins adapted to the cha- racter of the sutures in which they are situated. They are most frequently found in the occipito-parietal suture, where they occur sometimes in great numbers, more or less symmetrically arranged; in other instances, one or several bones of considerable size may occupy the place of the superior part of the occipital, and may correspond to the interparietal bone of some animals. They are much less frequently found in the other sutures. EXTERNAL SURFACE OF THE SKULL. The external surface of the skull may be conveniently divided into superior, inferior, anterior, and lateral regions. The superior region, extending from the supra-orbital ridges in front to the superior curved line of the occipital bone behind, and bounded laterally by the temporal ridges, is smooth and convex, covered only by the integument and by the muscular fibres and fascia of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It is of an oval form, broader in the parietal than the frontal region, flattened in front, and projecting somewhat in the middle behind. There is also a slight projection from the general curve at each of the frontal and parietal eminences. The anterior region of the skull, below the forehead, presents the openings into the orbits, bounded by the frontal, malar, and superior maxillary bones; and between the orbits, the bridge of the nose, formed by the nasal bones and ascending processes of the superior maxillaries. Below the nasal bones is the nasal aperture, of an inverted heart shape : its thin margin gives attachment to the nasal cartilages, and projects forwards in the middle line below as the nasal spine. Below the nasal aperture are the incisor fossae of the upper jaw ; below the orbits are the canine fossa:; and external to the canine fossae are pi'ominenccs of the cheeks, formed by the anterior inlerioi’ parts of the malar bones. The lower jaw completes the skeleton of the face.